The origin of the pointer, like that of the setter, is involved in much obscurity; he is of
mixed blood, and no doubt largely indebted to both hound and spaniel for his distinct existence.

Many sportsmen are under the erroneous idea that the pointer is contemporary with, if not older
than, the Setter. Such, however, is not the case; and we are led to believe that the Pointer
is of quite modern origin; at all events, the production of a much later date than the spaniel.

Strut, in his "Sports and Pastimes", chap. 1, sects. xv. and xvi., mentions a MS. in the Cotton
Library, originally written by William Twici, or Twety, Grand Huntsman to Edward II, who ascended
the throne in 1307.

This manuscript contains the earliest treatise on hunting that the English possess, and enumerates
the various kinds of game and different species of dogs then in existence, as also the modes
of taking the former and using the latter.

After describing, in the usual minute manner, the specific employment of each  dog, he finishes
by stating:

  "The spaniel was for use in hawking, hys crafte is for the perdrich or
  partridge, and the quail; and when taught to couch, he is very
  serviceable to the fowler, who takes these birds with nets."

No mention is made in this treatise of the pointer, and we naturally infer that he did not
exist, or he would have been noticed in connexion with the spaniel, who, it appears, even at
this early period, was taught to 'couch' on and point out game to those employed in netting it.

In the early portion of the sixteenth century, we have another enumeration of dogs, 'then'
in use, in a book entitled--"A Jewel for Gentrie;" which, besides the dogs already descanted
upon by Twici, we find added to the list,

  "bastards and mongrels, lemors, kenets, terrours, butchers' hounds,
  dung-hill dogs, trindel-tailed dogs, prychercard curs, and ladies'
  puppies."
  (Chap. 1st., Sec. XVI.--Strut.)

The pointer being the offspring of the fox-hound and spaniel, is consequently sprung from the
two ancient races known as 'Sagaces' and 'Pugnaces' or 'Bellicosi'. He certainly evinces a
larger share of the 'Bellicosi' blood than the setter, being ever ready for fight when assailed,
while the latter generally exhibits a conciliatory disposition under the most trying circumstances.--L.]

It is the fox-hound searching for game by the scent, but more perfectly under the control of
the sportsman, repressing his cry of joy when he finds his game, and his momentary pause, and
gathering himself up in order to spring upon it artificially, converted into a steady and deliberate
point. There still remains a strong resemblance, in countenance and in form, between the pointer
and the fox-hound, except that the muzzle is shorter, and the ears smaller, and partly pendulous.

Seventy or eighty years ago, the breed of pointers was nearly white, or varied with liver-coloured
spots; some, however, belonging to the Duke of Kingston, were perfectly black. This peculiarity
of colour was supposed to be connected with exquisite perfection of scent. That is not the
case with the present black pointers, who are not superior to any others.

Mr. Daniel relates an anecdote of one of his pointers. He had a dog that would always go round
close to the hedges of a field before he would quarter his ground. He seemed to have observed
that he most frequently found his game in the course of this circuit. [25]

Mr. Johnson gives the following characteristic sketches of the different breeds of pointer:

THE SPANISH POINTER,

originally a native of Spain, was once considered to be a valuable dog. He stood higher on
his legs, but was too large and heavy in his limbs, and had widely spread, ugly feet, exposing
him to frequent lameness. His muzzle and head were large, corresponding with the acuteness
of his smell. His ears were large and pendent, and his body ill-formed. He was naturally an
ill-tempered dog, growling at the hand that would caress him, even although it were his master's.
He stood steadily to his birds; but it was difficult to break him of chasing the hare. He was
deficient in speed. His redeeming quality was his excellent scent, unequalled in any other
kind of dog.

[To convince our readers of the value of this particular breed, we may mention the very singular
sale of Colonel Thornton's dog Dash, who was purchased by Sir Richard Symons for one hundred
and sixty pounds worth of champagne and burgundy, a hogshead of of claret, and an elegant gun
and another pointer, with a stipulation that if any accident befell the dog, he was to be returned
to his former owner for fifty guineas. Dash unfortunately broke his leg, and in accordance
with the agreement of sale was returned to the Colonel, who considered him a fortunate acquisition
as a stallion to breed from. (See Blain or Daniel).--L.]

THE PORTUGESE POINTER,

although with a slighter form than the Spanish one, is defective in the feet, often crooked
in the legs, and of a quarrelsome disposition. He soon tires, and is much inclined to chase
the hare. The tail is larger than that of the spaniel, and fully fringed.

THE FRENCH POINTER

is distinguished by a furrow between his nostrils, which materially interferes with the acuteness
of smell. He is better formed and more active than either the Spanish or Portugese dog, and
capable of longer continued exertion; but he is apt to be quarrelsome, and is too fond of chasing
the hare.

[We will close this account of the Pointer by transferring from the pages of the "Spirit of
the Times" our remarks upon this particular breed.

The French variety, as described by English authors, is much smaller than either of the above
breeds; and although possessed of great beauty, acute scent, and other qualifications that
would render him valuable in their eyes, still is considered much inferior, not being able
to cope with their dogs in hunting, owing to a want of physical power of endurance.

Youatt states, that he is distinguished by a furrow in his nose, which materially interferes
with his acuteness of smell.

These accounts do not agree with the French writers, to whom, it is very true, the English
should not look for any particular information respecting hunting or shooting. Nevertheless,
all must admit that they are quite as capable of describing their particular breeds of animals
as other nations; and, in fact, we might go farther, and say that they are much more competent
to the task than English writers, judging from their extensive knowledge in comparative anatomy,
and their long array of celebrated writers on natural history--the Cuviers, Buffon, &c.

'Baudrillart', in his 'Dictionnaire des Chases', describes the French Pointer as having endurance
and great industry, and of their being used oftentimes solely for 'la grande chasse'. In the
atlas of plates accompanying this interesting work, will be found two distinct and extremely
correct drawings of the English Pointer, and also an engraving of the French variety, which
latter, certainly, is represented as being equally, if not more muscular and and hardy, than
the English.

As for the furrow in the nose, as mentioned by Youatt, no reference is made to it in connection
with this species, and in the engraving the nose is square. But in describing another variety,
known in France as coming from Spain, 'Baudrillart' states, that they are vulgarly called "a
deux nez, parceque ce chien a les narines separees par une gouttiere."

As for Mr. Youatt's declaration in reference to the furrow in the nose "materially interfering
with the acuteness of smell," I cannot understand how, or on what principle of reasoning, this
slight deviation from nature should affect the properties of the olfactory apparatus. That
these furrow-nosed dogs are inferior to the English in scenting powers, as stated by Mr. Youatt,
we do not question; but that their deficiency depends upon this furrow, remains to be proved.

This furrow in the nose is merely a deformity, and like many others in various breeds of animals,
was solely the result of accident in the first place; and as we often see, even in the human
species, the deformities and infirmities of our ancestors entailed upon their progeny, so has
this 'cut in the nose' been so extensively inherited by succeeding generations, that it has
now become a distinctive mark of a whole class of dogs.

The French Pointer, as known in this country, is a beautiful, well-shaped, compact, square-nosed
dog; not so long or high as the English, but extremely well built, full-chested, large head,
pendent ears, projecting eyes, large feet, and thickish tail. His colour, seldom white, but
generally intermingled with small spots of brown or chocolate over the body, and more particularly
over the head and ears. Such a dog is in the possession of the writer, who knows nothing of
his ancestry; but is convinced from those he saw in France, that they must have been imported
from that country.

The English Pointer will now claim more particularly our attention. It is quite useless to
go into a general description of an animal of whom we have already said much, and with whom
we are all familiar; but we will endeavour to mention the most striking points of the species,
which marks can be referred to as guides in the purchase of a dog.

It is a difficult matter to put on paper, in a manner satisfactory either to the reader or
writer, the peculiarities of any animal, whereby he may be judged pure or mixed. However, there
are, generally, some few points in each species, that can be selected as proofs of their genuineness
and ability to perform certain actions peculiar to the race.

But, after all, more reliance must be placed upon the good faith of the seller, or the previous
knowledge of the strain from which the purchaser selects--and what is better than either, from
actual observation in the field; all of which precautions may, nevertheless, prove abortive,
and our dog be worthless.

As regards the size of the English Pointer, we may say, that he averages in length about 3
feet from the tip of the muzzle to the base of the tail, and from 22 to 26 inches high. His
head not bulky nor too narrow, the frontal sinuses largely developed.

The muzzle long and rather tapering, the nostrils large and well open, the ear slightly erect,
not over long, and the tip triangular; if too pendent, large and rounded at the tip, there
is too much of the hound present. The eyes lively, but not too prominent; the neck rather long
and not over thick, the chest broad, the limbs large and muscular; the paws strong, hard and
wide. The body and loins thin, rather than bulky, the hind quarters broad, and the limbs in
the same proportion with the fore members; the tail long and tapering.--L.]

THE RUSSIAN POINTER

is a rough, ill-tempered animal, with too much tendency to stupidity, and often annoyed by
vermin. He runs awkwardly, with his nose near the ground, and frequently springs his game.
He also has the cloven or divided nose.

THE EARLY TRAINING OF THE DOG.

The education of these dogs should commence at an early period, whether conducted by the breeder
or the sportsman; and the first lesson--that on which the value of the animal, and the pleasure
of its owner, will much depend--is a habit of subjection on the part of the dog, and kindness
on the part of the master. This is a 'sine qua non'. The dog must recognise in his owner a
friend and a benefactor. This will soon establish in the mind of the quadruped a feeling of
gratitude, and a desire to please. All this is natural to the dog, if he is encouraged by the
master, and then the process of breaking-in may commence in good earnest.

No long time probably passes ere the dog commits some little fault. He is careless, or obstinate,
or cross. The owner puts on a serious countenance, he holds up his finger, or shakes his head,
or produces the whip, and threatens to use it. Perhaps the infliction of a blow, that breaks
no bones, occasionally follows. In the majority of cases nothing more is required. The dog
succumbs; he asks to be forgiven; or, if he has been self-willed, he may be speedily corrected
without any serious punishment.

A writer, under the signature of "Soho," in The New Sporting Magazine for 1833, gives an interesting
account of the schooling of the pointer or setter, thus commenced. A short abstract from it
may not be unacceptable:

  "The first lesson inculcated is that of passive obedience, and this
  enforced by the infliction of severity as little as the case will
  admit. We will suppose the dog to be a setter. He is taken into the
  garden or into a field, and a strong cord, about eighteen or twenty
  yards long, is tied to his collar. The sportsman calls the dog to him,
  looks earnestly at him, gently presses him to the ground, and several
  times, with a loud, but not an angry voice, says, 'Down!' or 'Down
  charge!' The dog knows not the meaning of this, and struggles to get
  up; but, as often as he struggles, the cry of 'Down charge!' is
  repeated, and the pressure is continued or increased.

  "This is repeated a longer or shorter time, until the dog, finding
  that no harm is meant, quietly submits. He is then permitted to rise;
  he is patted and caressed, and some food is given to him. The command
  to rise is also introduced by the terms 'Hie up!' A little afterwards
  the same process is repeated, and he struggles less, or perhaps ceases
  altogether to struggle.

  "The person whose circumstances permit him occasionally to shoot over
  his little demesne, may very readily educate his dog without having
  recourse to keepers or professional breakers, among whom he would
  often be subject to imposition. Generally speaking, no dog is half so
  well broken as the one whose owner has taken the trouble of training
  him. The first and grand thing is to obtain the attachment of the dog,
  by frequently feeding and caressing him, and giving him little hours
  of liberty under his own inspection; but, every now and then,
  inculcating a lesson of obedience, teaching him that every gambol must
  be under the control of his master; frequently checking him in the
  midst of his riot with the order of 'Down charge!' patting him when he
  is instantly obedient; and rating, or castigating him, but not too
  severely, when there is any reluctance to obey. 'Passive obedience
  is the first principle, and from which no deviation should be
  allowed.' [26]

  "Much kindness and gentleness are certainly requisite when breaking-in
  the puppy, whether it be a pointer or a setter. There is heedlessness
  in the young dog which is not readily got rid of until age has given
  him experience. He must not, however, be too severely corrected, or he
  may be spoiled for life. If considerable correction is sometimes
  necessary, it should be followed, at a little distance of time, by
  some kind usage. The memory of the suffering will remain; but the
  feeling of attachment to the master will also remain, or rather be
  increased. The temper of a young dog must be almost as carefully
  studied as that of a human being. Timidity may be encouraged, and
  eagerness may be restrained, but affection must be the tie that binds
  him to his master, and renders him subservient to his will.

  "The next portion of the lesson is more difficult to learn. He is no
  longer held by his master, but suffered to run over the field,
  seemingly at his pleasure, when, suddenly, comes the warning 'Down!'
  He perhaps pays no attention to it, but gambols along until seized by
  his master, forced on the ground, and the order of 'Down!' somewhat
  sternly uttered.

  "After a while he is suffered again to get up. He soon forgets what
  has occurred, and gallops away with as much glee as ever. Again the
  'Down!' is heard, and again little or no attention is paid to it. His
  master once more lays hold of him and forces him on the ground, and
  perhaps inflicts a slight blow or two, and this process continues
  until the dog finds that he must obey the command of 'Down charge!'

  "The owner will now probably walk from him a little way backward with
  his hand lifted up. If the dog makes the slightest motion, he must be
  sharply spoken to, and the order peremptorily enforced.

  "He must then be taught to 'back,' that is, to come behind his master
  when called. When he seems to understand all this, he is called by his
  master in a kindly tone, and patted and caressed. It is almost
  incredible how soon he will afterwards understand what he is ordered
  to do, and perform it.

  "It will be seen by this that no one should attempt to break-in a dog
  who is not possessed of patience and perseverance. The sportsman must
  not expect to see a great deal of improvement from the early lessons.
  The dog will often forget that which was inculcated upon him a few
  hours before; but perseverance and kindness will effect much: the
  first lessons over, the dog, beginning to perceive a little what is
  meant, will cheerfully and joyfully do his duty.

  "When there is much difficulty in teaching the dog his lesson, the
  fault lies as often with the master as with him; or they are,
  generally speaking, both in fault. Some dogs cannot be mastered but by
  means of frequent correction. The less the sportsman has to do with
  them the better. Others will not endure the least correction, but
  become either ferocious or sulky. They should be disposed of as soon
  as possible. The majority of dogs are exceedingly sagacious. They
  possess strong reasoning powers; they understand, by intuition, almost
  every want and wish of their master, and they deserve the kindest and
  best usage.

  "The scholar being thus prepared, should be taken into the field,
  either alone, or, what is considerably better, with a well-trained,
  steady dog. When the old dog makes a point, the master calls out,
  'Down!' or 'Soho!' and holds up his hand, and approaches steadily to
  the birds; and, if the young one runs in or prepares to do so, as
  probably he will at first, he again raises his hand and calls out,
  'Soho!' If the youngster pays no attention to this, the whip must be
  used, and in a short time he will be steady enough at the first
  intimation of game.

  "If he springs any birds without taking notice of them, he should be
  dragged to the spot from which they rose, and, 'Soho!' being cried,
  one or two sharp strokes with the whip should be inflicted. If he is
  too eager, he should be warned to 'take heed.' If he 'rakes' or runs
  with his nose near the ground, he should be admonished to 'hold up',
  and, if he still persists, the 'muzzle-peg' may be resorted to. Some
  persons fire over the dog for running at hares: but this is wrong;
  for, besides the danger of wounding or even killing the animal, he
  will for some time afterwards he frightened at the sound, or even at
  the very sight of a gun. The best plan to accustom dogs to the gun, is
  occasionally to fire one off when they are being fed.

  "Some persons let their dog fetch the dead birds. This is very wrong.
  Except the sportsman has a double-barrelled gun, the dog should not be
  suffered to move until the piece is again charged. The young one,
  until he is thoroughly broken of it, is too apt to run in whether the
  bird is killed or not, and which may create much mischief by
  disturbing the game.

  "Although excessive punishment should not be administered, yet no
  fault, however small, should pass without reproof: on the other hand,
  he should be rewarded, but not too lavishly, for every instance of
  good conduct.

  "When the dog is grown tolerably steady, and taught to come at the
  call, he should also learn to range and quarter his ground. Let some
  clear morning, and some place where the sportsman is likely to meet
  with game, be selected. Station him where the wind will blow in his
  face; wave your hand and cry, 'Heigh on, good dog!' Then let him go
  off to the right, about seventy or eighty yards. After this, call him
  in by another wave of the hand, and let him go the same distance to
  the left. Walk straight forward with your eye always upon him; then,
  let him continue to cross from right to left, calling him in at the
  limit of each range.

  "This is at first a somewhat difficult lesson, and requires careful
  teaching. The same ground is never to be twice passed over. The
  sportsman watches every motion, and the dog is never trusted out of
  sight, or allowed to break fence. When this lesson is tolerably
  learned, and on some good scenting morning early in the season, he may
  take the field, and perhaps find. Probably he will be too eager, and
  spring his game. Make him 'down' immediately, and take him to the
  place where the birds rose. Chide him with 'Steady!' 'How dare you!'
  Use no whip; but scold him well, and be assured that he will be more
  cautious. If possible, kill on the next chance. The moment the bird is
  down, he will probably rush in and seize it. He must be met with the
  same rebuff, 'Down charge!' If he does not obey, he deserves to have,
  and will have, a stroke with the whip. The gun being again charged,
  the bird is sought for, and the dog is suffered to see it and play
  with it for a minute before it is put into the bag.

  "He will now become thoroughly fond of the sport, and his fondness
  will increase with each bird that is killed. At every time, however,
  whether he kills or misses, the sportsman should make the dog 'Down
  charge.' and never allow him to rise until he has loaded.

  "If a hare should be wounded, there will, occasionally, be
  considerable difficulty in preventing him from chasing her. The best
  broken and steadiest dog cannot always be restrained from running
  hares. He must be checked with 'Ware chase,' and, if he does not
  attend, the sportsman must wait patiently. He will by-and-by come
  slinking along with his tail between his legs, conscious of his fault.
  It is one, however, that admits of no pardon. He must be secured, and,
  while the field echoes with the cry of 'Ware chase,' he must be
  punished to a certain but not too great extent. The castigation must
  be repeated as often as he offends; or, if there is much difficulty in
  breaking him of the habit, he must be got rid of."

The breaking-in or subjugation of pointers and setters is a very important, and occasionally
a difficult affair; the pleasure of the sportsman, however, depends on it. The owner of any
considerable property will naturally look to his keeper to furnish him with dogs on which he
may depend, and he ought not to be disappointed; for those which belong to other persons, or
are brought at the beginning of the season, whatever account the breaker or the keeper of them
may give, will too often be found deficient.

THE OTTER HOUND

used to be of a mingled breed, between the southern hound and the rough terrier, and in size
between the harrier and the fox-hound. The head should be large and broad, the shoulders and
quarters thick, and the hair strong, wiry, and rough. They used to be kept in small packs,
for the express purpose of hunting the otter.

Two hundred and fifty years ago, otter-hunting was a favourite amusement in several parts of
Great Britain. Many of our streams then abounded with this destructive animal; but, since the
population are more numerous, and many contrivances are adopted to ensnare and destroy otters,
few are now to be found.

THE TURNSPIT

This dog was once a valuable auxiliary in the kitchen, by turning the spit before jacks were
invented. It had a peculiar length of body, with short crooked legs, the tail curled, its ears
long and pendent, and the head large in proportion to the body. It is still used in the kitchen
on various parts of the Continent. There are some curious stories of the artfulness with which
he often attempted to avoid the task imposed upon him.

There is a variety of this dog; the crooked-legged turnspit.

[Footnote 1: 'Historical and Descriptive Sketches of British America', by J. Macgregor]

[Footnote 2: 'Journal Historique du Voyage de M. de Lesseps', Paris, 1790. 2 vols.--tome 1.]

[Footnote 3: Clarke's 'Scandinavia', vol. i. p. 432.]

[Footnote 4: The migratory sheep, in some parts of the south of France almost as numerous as
in Spain, are attended by a GOAT, as a guide; and the intelligence and apparent pride which
he displays are remarkable.]

[Footnote 5: 'Trimmer on the Merinos', p. 50. See also the Society's work on Sheep.]

[Footnote 6: 'Annals of Sporting', vol. viii. p. 83.]

[Footnote 7:

  "The Ettrick Shepherd has probably spoken somewhat too
  enthusiastically of his dog; but accounts of the sagacity and almost
  superhuman fidelity of this dog crowd so rapidly upon us that we are
  compelled to admire and to love him."

'Hogg's Shepherd's Calendar', vol. ii. p. 308.]

[Footnote 8: 'Jesse's Gleanings', vol. i. p. 93].

[Footnote 9: 'Buffon's Natural History', vol. v. p. 314.]

[Footnote 10: 'Travels in Scotland', by the Rev. J. Hall, vol. ii. p. 395.]

[Footnote 11: 'Annals of Sporting', vol. v. p. 137.]

[Footnote 12: Mr Beckford at one time determined to try how he should like the use of beagles,
and, having heard of a small pack of them, he sent his coachman, the person he could best spare,
to fetch them. It was a long journey, and, although he had some assistance, yet not being used
to hounds, he had some trouble in getting them along, especially as they had not been out of
the kennel for several weeks before. They were consequently so riotous that they ran after
everything they saw, sheep, cur dogs, birds of all sorts, as well as hares and deer. However,
he lost but one hound; and, when Mr. Beckford asked him what he thought of them, he said that
they could not fail of being good hounds, for they would hunt everything.]

[Footnote 13: 'Beckford on Hunting', p. 150.]

[Footnote 14: 'The Horse and the Hound', by Nimrod, p. 340.]

[Footnote 15: 'The Horse and the Hound', by Nimrod, p, 332.]

[Footnote 16: 'Daniel's Foxhound', p. 205.]

[Footnote 17: 'The Horse and the Hound', by Nimrod, p. 355.]

[Footnote 18: 'Beckford's Thoughts on Hunting', p. 95.]

[Footnote 19: Mr. Beckford gives the following excellent account of what a huntsman should be:

  "A huntsman should be attached to the sport, and indefatigable, young,
  strong, active, bold, and enterprising in the pursuit of it. He should
  be sensible, good-tempered, sober, exact, and cleanly--a good groom
  and an excellent horseman. His voice should be strong and clear, with
  an eye so quick as to perceive which of his hounds carries the scent
  when all are running, and an ear so excellent as to distinguish the
  leading hounds when he does not see them. He should be quiet, patient,
  and without conceit. Such are the qualities which constitute
  perfection in a huntsman. He should not, however, be too fond of
  displaying them until called forth by necessity; it being a peculiar
  and distinguishing trait in his character to let his hounds alone
  while they thus hunt, and have genius to assist them when they
  cannot."

'Beckford on Hunting', Letter ix.]

[Footnote 20: 'Blaine on the Diseases of the Dog', p. 140.]

[Footnote 21: See 'Hints to Young Masters of Fox-Hounds'--'New Sport. Mag.', vol. viii. p.
174-290.]

[Footnote 22: 'Traite de la Folie dex Animaux', tom. ii. 39.]

[Footnote 23: Mr. D. Radcliffe.]

[Footnote 24: The late Lord Oxford reduced four stags to so perfect a degree of submission
that, in his short excursions, he used to drive them in a phaeton made for the purpose. He
was one day exercising his singular and beautiful steeds in the neighbourhood of Newmarket,
when their ears were saluted with the unwelcome cry of a pack of hounds, which, crossing the
road in their rear, had caught the scent, and leaving their original object of pursuit, were
now in rapid chase of the frightened stags. In vain his grooms exerted themselves to the utmost,
the terrified animals bounded away with the swiftness of lightning, and entered Newmarket at
full speed. They made immediately for the Ram Inn, to which his lordship was in the habit of
driving, and, having fortunately entered the yard without any accident, the stable-keepers
huddled his lordship, the phaeton, and the deer into a large barn, just in time to save them
from the hounds, who came into the yard in full cry a few seconds afterwards.

('Annals of Sporting', vol. iii. 1833.)]

[Footnote 25: The author of the 'Field Book' says that he saw an extremely small pointer, whose
length, from the tip of the nose to the point of the tail, was only two feet and half an inch,
the length of the head being six inches, and round the chest one foot and three inches. He
was an exquisite miniature of the English pointer, being in all respects similar to him, except
in his size. His colour was white, with dark liver-coloured patches on each side of the head,
extending half down the neck. The ears, with some patches on the back, were also of the same
colour, and numerous small dark-brown spots appeared over his whole body and legs.

This beautiful little animal had an exquisite sense of smell. Some of the same breed, and being
the property of the Earl of Lauderdale, were broken-in and made excellent pointers, although,
from their minute size, it could not be expected that they would be able to do much work. When
intent upon any object, the dog assumed the same attitude as other pointers, holding up one
of his feet.

('The Field Book', p. 399.)]

[Footnote 26: Another writer in the same volume gives also an interesting account of the management
of the setter.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER IV.

THE VARIETIES OF THE DOG.

THIRD DIVISION.

The round, thick head, turned-up nose, and thick and pendulous lips of this dog are familiar
to all, while his ferocity makes him in the highest degree dangerous. In general he makes a
silent although ferocious attack, and the persisting powers of his teeth and jaws enable him
to keep his hold against any but the greatest efforts, so that the utmost mischief is likely
to ensue as well to the innocent visitor of his domicile as the ferocious intruder. The bull-dog
is scarcely capable of any education, and is fitted for nothing but ferocity and combat.

The name of this dog is derived from his being too often employed, until a few years ago, in
baiting the bull. It was practised by the low and dissolute in many parts of the country. Dogs
were bred and trained for the purpose; and, while many of them were injured or destroyed, the
head of the bull was lacerated in the most barbarous manner. Nothing can exceed the fury with
which the bull-dog rushed on his foe, and the obstinacy with which he maintained his hold.
He fastened upon the lip, the muzzle, or the eye, and there he hung in spite of every effort
of the bull to free himself from his antagonist.

Bull-dogs are not so numerous as they were a few years ago; and every kind-hearted person will
rejoice to hear that bull-baiting is now put down by legal authority in every part of the kingdom.

THE BULL TERRIER.

This dog is a cross between the bull-dog and the terrier, and is generally superior, both in
appearance and value, to either of its progenitors. A second cross considerably lessens the
underhanging of the lower jaw, and a third entirely removes it, retaining the spirit and determination
of the animal. It forms a steadier friendship than either of them, and the principal objection
to it is its love of wanton mischief, and the dangerous irascibility which it occasionally
exhibits.

Sir Walter Scott, a warm friend of dogs, and whose veracity cannot be impeached, gives an interesting
account of a favourite one belonging to him.

THE MASTIFF

The head considerably resembles that of the bull-dog, but with the ears dependent. The upper
lip falls over the lower jaw. The end of the tail is turned up, and frequently the fifth toe
of the hind feet is more or less developed. The nostrils are separated one from another by
a deep furrow. He has a grave and somewhat sullen countenance, and his deep-toned bark is often
heard during the night. The mastiff is taller than the bull-dog, but not so deep in the chest,
and his head is large compared with his general form.

It is probable that the mastiff is an original breed peculiar to the British islands.

He seems to be fully aware of the impression which his large size makes on every stranger;
and, in the night especially, he watches the abode of his master with the completest vigilance;
in fact, nothing would tempt him to betray the confidence which is reposed in him.

Captain Brown states that,

  "notwithstanding his commanding appearance and the strictness with
  which he guards the property of his master, he is possessed of the
  greatest mildness of conduct, and is as grateful for any favours
  bestowed upon him as is the most diminutive of the canine tribe. There
  is a remarkable and peculiar warmth in his attachments. He is aware of
  all the duties required of him, and he punctually discharges them. In
  the course of the night he several times examines every thing with
  which he is intrusted with the most scrupulous care, and, by repeated
  barkings, warns the household or the depredator that he is at the post
  of duty." [1]

The mastiff from Cuba requires some mention, and will call up some of the most painful recollections
in the history of the human race. He was not a native of Cuba, but imported into the country.

The Spaniards had possessed themselves of several of the South American islands. They found
them peopled with Indians, and those of a sensual, brutish, and barbarous class--continually
making war with their neighbours, indulging in an irreconcilable hatred of the Spaniards, and
determined to expel and destroy them. In self-defence, they were driven to some means of averting
the destruction with which they were threatened. They procured some of these mastiffs, by whose
assistance they penetrated into every part of the country, and destroyed the greater portion
of the former inhabitants.

Las Casas, a Catholic priest, and whose life was employed in endeavouring to mitigate the sufferings
of the original inhabitants, says that

  "it was resolved to march against the Indians, who had fled to the
  mountains, and they were chased like wild beasts, with the assistance
  of bloodhounds, who had been trained to a thirst for human blood, so
  that before I had left the island it had become almost entirely a
  desert."

THE ICELAND DOG.

The head is rounder than that of the northern dogs; the ears partly erect and partly pendent;
and the fur soft and long, especially behind the fore legs and on the tail. It much resembles
the Turkish dog removed to a colder climate.

This dog is exceedingly useful to the Icelanders while travelling over the snowy deserts of
the north. By a kind of intuition he rarely fails in choosing the shortest and the safest course.
He also is more aware than his master of the approach of the snow storms; and is a most valuable
ally against the attack of the Polar bear, who, drifted on masses of ice from the neighbouring
continent, often commits depredations among the cattle, and even attacks human beings. When
the dog is first aware of the neighbourhood of the bear, he sets up a fearful howl, and men
and dogs hasten to hunt down and destroy the depredator.

The travelling in Iceland is sometimes exceedingly dangerous at the beginning of the winter.
A thin layer of snow covers and conceals some of the chasms with which that region abounds.
Should the traveller fall into one of them, the dog proves a most useful animal; for he runs
immediately across the snowy waste, and, by his howling, induces the traveller's friends to
hasten to his rescue.

THE TERRIER

The forehead is convex; the eye prominent; the muzzle pointed; the tail thin and arched; the
fur short; the ears of moderate size, half erect, and usually of a deep-black colour, with
a yellow spot over the eyes. It is an exceedingly useful animal; but not so indispensable an
accompaniment to a pack of fox-hounds as it used to be accounted. Foxes are not so often unearthed
as they formerly were, yet many a day's sport would be lost without the terrier. Some sportsmen
used to have two terriers accompanying in the pack, one being smaller than the other. This
was a very proper provision; a large terrier might be incapable of penetrating into the earth,
and a small one might permit the escape of the prey. Many terriers have lost their lives by
scratching up the earth behind them, and thus depriving themselves of all means of retreat.

The coat of the terrier may be either smooth or rough; the smooth-haired ones are more delicate
in appearance, and are somewhat more exposed to injury or accident; but in courage, sagacity,
and strength, there is very little difference if the dogs are equally well bred. The rough
terrier possibly obtained his shaggy coat from the cur, and the smooth terrier may derive his
from the hound.

The terrier is seldom of much service until he is twelve months old; and then, incited by natural
propensity, or the example of the older ones, or urged on by the huntsman, he begins to discharge
his supposed duty.

An old terrier is brought to the mouth of the earth in which a vixen fox--a fox with her young
ones--has taken up her abode, and is sent in to worry and drive her out. Some young terriers
are brought to the mouth of the hover, to listen to the process that is going forward within,
and to be excited to the utmost extent of which they are capable. The vixen is at length driven
out, and caught at the mouth of the hole; and the young ones are suffered to rush in, and worry
or destroy their first prey. They want no after-tuition to prepare them for the discharge of
their duty.

This may be pardoned. It is the most ready way of training the young dog to his future business;
but it is hoped that no reader of this work will be guilty of the atrocities that are often
practised. An old fox, or badger, is caught, his under jaw is sawn off, and the lower teeth
are forcibly extracted, or broken. A hole is then dug in the earth, or a barrel is placed large
and deep enough to permit a terrier, or perhaps two of them, to enter. Into this cavity the
fox or badger is thrust, and a terrier rushes after him, and drags him out again. The question
to be ascertained is, how many times in a given period the dog will draw this poor tortured
animal out of the barrel--an exhibition of cruelly which no one should be able to lay to the
charge of any human being. It is a principle not to be departed from, that wanton and useless
barbarity should never be permitted. The government, to a certain extent, has interfered, and
a noble society has been established to limit, or, if possible, to prevent the infliction of
useless pain.

The terrier is, however, a valuable dog, in the house and the farm. The stoat, the pole-cat,
and the weazel, commit great depredations in the fields, the barn, and granary; and to a certain
extent, the terrier is employed in chasing them; but it is not often that he has a fair chance
to attack them. He is more frequently used in combating the rat.

The mischief effected by rats is almost incredible. It has been said that, in some cases, in
the article of corn, these animals consume a quantity of food equal in value to the rent of
the farm. Here the dog is usefully employed, and in his very element, especially if there is
a cross of the bull-dog about him.

There are some extraordinary accounts of the dexterity, as well as courage, of the terrier
in destroying rats. The feats of a dog called "Billy" will he long remembered. He was matched
to destroy one hundred large rats in eight and a half minutes. The rats were brought into the
ring in bags, and, as soon as the number was complete, he was put over the railing. In six
minutes and thirty-five seconds they were all destroyed. In another match he destroyed the
same number in six minutes and thirteen seconds. At length, when he was getting old, and had
but two teeth and one eye left, a wager was laid of thirty sovereigns, by the owner of a Berkshire
bitch, that she would kill fifty rats in less time than Billy. The old dog killed his fifty
in five minutes and six seconds. The pit was then cleared, and the bitch let in. When she had
killed thirty rats, she was completely exhausted, fell into a fit, and lay barking and yelping,
utterly incapable of completing her task.

The speed of the terrier is very great. One has been known to run six miles in thirty-two minutes.
He needs to be a fleet dog if, with his comparatively little bulk, he can keep up with the
foxhound.

A small breed of 'wry-legged' terriers was once in repute, and, to a certain degree, is retained
for the purpose of hunting rabbits. It probably originated in some rickety specimens, remarkable
for the slow development of their frame, except in the head, the belly, and the joints, which
enlarge at the expense of the other parts.

THE SCOTCH TERRIER

There is reason to believe that this dog is far older than the English terrier. There are three
varieties: first the common Scotch terrier, twelve or thirteen inches high; his body muscular
and compact-- considerable breadth across the loins--the legs shorter and stouter than those
of the English terriers. The head large in proportion to the size of the body--the muzzle small
and pointed--strong marks of intelligence in the countenance--warm attachment to his master,
and the evident devotion of every power to the fulfilment of his wishes. The hair is long and
tough, and extending over the whole of the frame. In colour, they are black or fawn: the white,
yellow, or pied are always deficient in purity of blood.

Another species has nearly the same conformation, but is covered with longer, more curly, and
stouter hair; the legs being apparently, but not actually, shorter. This kind of dog prevails
in the greater part of the Western Islands of Scotland, and some of them, where the hair has
obtained its full development, are much admired.

Her Majesty had one from Islay, a faithful and affectionate creature, yet with all the spirit
and determination that belongs to his breed. The writer of this account had occasion to operate
on this poor fellow, who had been bitten under somewhat suspicious circumstances. He submitted
without a cry or a struggle, and seemed to be perfectly aware that we should not put him to
pain without having some good purpose in view.

A third species of terrier is of a considerably larger bulk, and three or four inches taller
than either of the others. Its hair is shorter than that of the other breeds, and is hard and wiry.

THE SHOCK-DOG

is traced by Buffon, but somewhat erroneously, to a mixture of the small Danish dog and the
pug. The head is round, the eyes large, but somewhat concealed by its long and curly hair,
the tail curved and bent forward. The muzzle resembles that of the pug. It is of small size,
and is used in this country and on the Continent as a lap-dog. It is very properly described
by the author of "The Field Book" as a useless little animal, seeming to possess no other quality
than that of a faithful attachment to his mistress.

THE ARTOIS DOG

with his short, flat muzzle, is a produce of the shock-dog and the pug. He has nothing peculiar
to recommend him.

THE ANDALUSIAN, OR ALICANT DOG,

has the short muzzle of the pug with the long hair of the spaniel.

THE EGYPTIAN AND BARBARY DOG,

according to Cuvier, has a very thick and round head, the ears erect at the base, large and
movable, and carried horizontally, the skin nearly naked, and black or dark flesh-colour, with
large patches of brown. A sub-variety has a kind of mane behind the head, formed of long stiff
hairs.

Buffon imagines that the shepherd's dog--transported to different climates, and acquiring different
habits--was the ancestor of the various species with which almost every country abounds; but
whence they originally came it is impossible to say. They vary in their size, their colour,
their attitude, their usual exterior, and their strangely different interior construction.
Transported into various climates, they are necessarily submitted to the influence of heat
and cold, and of food more or less abundant and more or less suitable to their natural organization;
but the reason or the derivation of these differences of structure it is not always easy to
explain.

In our history of the different breeds of the dog we have seen enough to induce us to admire
and love him. His courage, his fidelity, and the degree in which he often devotes every power
that he possesses to our service, are circumstances that we can never forget nor overlook.
His very foibles occasionally attach him to us. We may select a pointer for the pureness of
his blood and the perfection of his education. He transgresses in the field. We call him to
us; we scold him well; perchance, we chastise him. He lies motionless and dumb at our feet.
The punishment being over, he gets up, and, by some significant gesture, acknowledges his consciousness
of deserving what he has suffered. The writer operated on a pointer bitch for an enlarged cancerous
tumour, accompanied by much inflammation and pain in the surrounding parts. A word or two of
kindness and of caution were all that were necessary, although, in order to prevent accidents,
she had been bound securely. The flesh quivered as the knife pursued its course--a moan or
two escaped her, but yet she did not struggle; and her first act, after all was over, was to
lick the operator's hand.

From the combination of various causes, the history of no animal is more interesting than that
of the dog. First, his intimate association with man, not only as a valuable protector, but
as a constant and faithful companion throughout all the vicissitudes of life. Secondly, from
his natural endowments, not consisting in the exquisite delicacy of one individual sense--not
merely combining memory with reflection--but possessing qualities of the mind that stagger
us in the contemplation of them, and which we can alone account for in the gradation existing
in that wonderful system which, by different links of one vast chain, extends from the first
to the last of all things, until it forms a perfect whole on the wonderful confines of the
spiritual and material world.

We here quote the beautiful account of Sir Walter Scott and his dogs, as described by Henry Hallam:

  "But looking towards the grassy mound
  Where calm the Douglass chieftains lie,
  Who, living, quiet never found,
  I straightway learnt a lesson high;

  For there an old man sat serene,
  And well I knew that thoughtful mien
  Of him whose early lyre had thrown
  O'er mouldering walls the magic of its tone.

  It was a comfort, too, to see
  Those dogs that from him ne'er would rove,
  And always eyed him reverently,
  With glances of depending love.
  They know not of the eminence
  Which marks him to my reasoning sense,
  They know but that he is a man,
  And still to them is kind, and glads them all he can

  And hence their quiet looks confiding;
  Hence grateful instincts seated deep
  By whose strong bond, were ill betiding,
  They'd lose their own, his life to keep.
  What joy to watch in lower creature
  Such dawning of a moral nature,
  And how (the rule all things obey)
  They look to a higher mind to be their law and stay!"

The subject of the intellectual and moral qualities of the inferior animals is one highly interesting
and somewhat misunderstood--urged perhaps to a ridiculous extent by some persons, yet altogether
neglected by others who have no feeling for any but themselves.

Anatomists have compared the relative bulk of the brain in different animals, and the result
is not a little interesting. In man the weight of the brain amounts on the average to 1-30th
part of the body. In the Newfoundland dog it does not amount to 1-60th part, or to 1-100th
part in the poodle and barbet, and not to more than 1-300th part in the ferocious and stupid
bull-dog.

When the brain is cut, it is found to be composed of two substances, essentially different
in construction and function--the cortical and the medullary. The first is small in quantity,
and principally concerned in the food and reproduction of the animal, and the cineritious in
a great measure the register of the mind. Brute strength seems to be the character of the former,
and superior intelligence of the latter. There is, comparing bulk with bulk, less of the medullary
substance in the horse than in the ox--and in the dog than in the horse--and they are characterized
as the sluggish ox, the intelligent horse, and the intellectual and companionable dog.

From the medullary substance proceed certain cords or prolongations, termed 'nerves', by which
the animal is enabled to receive impressions from surrounding objects and to connect himself
with them, and also to possess many pleasurable or painful sensations. One of them is spread
over the membrane of the nose, and gives the sense of smell; another expands on the back of
the eye, and the faculty of sight is gained; a third goes to the internal structure of the
ear and the animal is conscious of sound. Other nerves, proceeding to different parts, give
the faculty of motion, while an equally important one bestows the power of feeling. One division,
springing from a prolongation of the brain, and yet within the skull, wanders to different
parts of the frame, for important purposes connected with respiration or breathing. The act
of breathing is essential to life, and were it to cease, the animal would die.

There are other nerves--the sympathetic--so called from their union and sympathy with all the
others, and identified with life itself. They proceed from a small ganglion or enlargement
in the upper part of the neck, or from a collection of minute ganglia within the abdomen. They
go to the heart, and it beats; and to the stomach, and it digests. They form a net-work round
each vessel, and the frame is nourished and built up. They are destitute of sensation, and
they are perfectly beyond the control of the will.

We have been accustomed, and properly, to regard the nervous system, or that portion of it
which is connected with animal life--that which renders us conscious of surrounding objects
and susceptible of pleasure and of pain--as the source of intellectual power and moral feeling.
It is so with ourselves. All our knowledge is derived from our perception of things around
as. A certain impression is made on the outward fibres of a sensitive nerve. That impression,
in some mysterious way, is conveyed to the brain; and there it is received--registered--stored--and
compared; there its connections are traced and its consequences appreciated; and thence a variety
of interesting impressions are conveyed, and due use is made of them.

THE SENSE OF SMELL

Our subject--the intellectual and moral feelings of brutes, and the mechanism on which they
depend--may be divided into two parts, the portion that receives and conveys, and that which
stores up and compares and uses the impression.

The portion that receives and conveys is far more developed in the brute than in the human
being. Whatever sense we take, we clearly perceive the triumph of animal power.

The olfactory nerve in the horse, the dog, the ox, and the swine, is the largest of all the
cerebral nerves, and has much greater comparative bulk in the quadruped than in the human being.
The sense of smell, bearing proportion to the nerve on which it depends, is yet more acute.
In man it is connected with pleasure--in the inferior animals with life. The relative size
of the nerve bears an invariable proportion to the necessity of an acute sense of smell in
the various animals--large in the horse compared with the olfactory nerve in the human being--larger
in the ox, who is often sent into the fields to shift for himself--larger still in the swine,
whose food is buried under the soil, or deeply immersed in the filth or refuse,--and still
larger in the dog, the acuteness of whose scent is so connected with our pleasure.

[The disposition to hunt by scent is not peculiar to the setter or pointer, but in fact is
common to all animals; developing itself in different proportions according to their various
physical constructions and modes of life. The method of finding and pointing at game, now peculiar
to these dogs, and engendered in their progeny through successive generations, is not the result
of any special instinct, that usually governs the actions of the brute creation--but rather
the effect of individual education and force of habit upon their several ancestors. This habit
of life, engrafted through progressive generations into these breeds, has become a second nature,
and so entirely the property of the species, that all its members, with but little care on
the part of man, will perform these same actions in the same way, and will ever continue to
exhibit these propensities for hunting, provided opportunities be offered for indulging them.
Nevertheless, as these peculiar predilections for "'setting or pointing'," as before said,
are the effect of education and habit, the artificial impulse would very soon be entirely obliterated,
if not encouraged in the young dogs of each generation. This circumstance alone, proves to
us the importance of getting dogs from a well-known good strain, whose ancestors have been
remarkable for their exploits in the field. This necessary precaution will insure a favourable
issue to our troubles, and lessen materially our labours. In fact young puppies have been frequently
known to exhibit this propensity the first time they have been taken to the field. Some of
these dogs have come under the notice of the writer, who at a few months old exhibited all
the peculiarities of their race; in fact were "self-broke." These dogs were the progeny of
a well-known imported stock, in the possession of a gentleman who selected them in England.

Although other dogs, and other animals even, have been with great difficulty and perseverance
taught to find and point game, still these two breeds seem especially adapted by nature, both
in their physical and intellectual construction, for the performance of this particular duty
to man.

The sense of smell is differently developed in different animals; the olfactory nerve of the
dog is larger than any other in the cerebrum, which peculiarity will at once account for their
wonderful powers of scent.

'Swine', also, have these nerves largely developed; and necessarily so, as both in a state
of nature or half-civilization, the greater portion of their food is buried under the earth
or mingled with the filth and mire of their sties, and would pass unheeded, if not for the
acuteness of their nasal organs.

In Daniels' "Rural Sports," will be found an interesting account of a sow having been taught
to find and point game of various kinds, and often having been known to stand on partridges
at a distance of forty yards, which is more than can reasonably be expected of every first-rate
dog. She was not only broke to find and stand game, but hunted with the dogs, and backed successfully
when on a point. This extraordinary animal evinced great aptness for learning, and afterwards
great enthusiasm in the sport; showing symptoms of pleasure at the sight of a gun, or when
called upon to accompany a party to the field. Her hunting was not confined to any particular
game, but stood equally well on partridges, pheasants, snipes, rabbits, &c. (See Blaine, part
vii, chap, iii, page 792.)

Most of animals instinctively employ the organ of scent to seek out food, or avert personal
danger, in preference to that of sight; but some depend more upon the latter than the former,
either from instinct or the force of education.

For instance, the greyhound, though equally gifted with the sense of smell, as that of sight,
has been taught to depend upon the one organ to the entire exclusion of the other, which is
quite the reverse of the setter and pointer; but the wonderful speed of these dogs renders
it quite unnecessary that he should employ the olfactory nerves, as no animal, however swift,
can hope to escape from him in a fair race, when once near enough to be seen; though there
are some that may elude his grasp by a "'ruse de guerre'" when too hardly pressed. ('Extracted
from our essay in No. 1, vol. xvi, of the "Spirit of the Times.'")--L.]

INTELLIGENCE

We find little mention of insanity in the domesticated animals in any of our modern authors,
whether treating on agriculture, horsemanship, or veterinary medicine, and yet there are some
singular and very interesting cases of aberration of intellect. The inferior animals are, to
a certain extent, endowed with the same faculties as ourselves. They are even susceptible of
the same moral qualities. Hatred, love, fear, hope, joy, distress, courage, timidity, jealousy,
and many varied passions influence and agitate them, as they do the human being. The dog is
an illustration of this---the most susceptible to every impression--approaching the nearest
to man in his instincts, and in many actions that surprise the philosopher, who justly appreciates
it.

What eagerness to bite is often displayed by the dog when labouring under enteritis, and especially
by him who has imbibed the poison of rabies! How singular is the less dangerous malady which
induces the horse and the dog to press unconsciously forward under the influence of vertigo!--the
eagerness with which, when labouring under phrenitis, he strikes at everything with his foot,
or rushes upon it to seize it with his teeth! A kind of nostalgia is often recognised in that
depression which nothing can dissipate, and the invincible aversion to food, by means of which
many animals perish, who are prevented from returning to the place where they once lived, and
the localities to which they had been accustomed.

These are circumstances proving that the dog is endowed with intelligence and with affections
like ours; and, if they do not equal ours, they are of the same character.

With regard to the foundation of intellectual power, viz.: attention, memory, association,
and imagination, the difference between man and animals is in degree, and not in kind. Thus
stands the account,--with the quadruped as well as the biped,--the impression is made on the
mind; attention fixes it there; memory recurs to it; imagination combines it, rightly or erroneously,
with many other impressions; judgment determines the value of it, and the conclusions that
are to be drawn from it, if not with logical precision, yet with sufficient accuracy for every
practical purpose.

A bitch, naturally ill-tempered, and that would not suffer a stranger to touch her, had scirrhous
enlargement on one of her teats. As she lay in the lap of her mistress, an attempt was repeatedly
made to examine the tumour, in spite of many desperate attempts on her part to bite. All at
once, however, something seemed to strike her mind. She whined, wagged her tail, and sprung
from the lap of her mistress to the ground. It was to crouch at the feet of the surgeon, and
to lay herself down and expose the tumour to his inspection. She submitted to a somewhat painful
examination of it, and to a far more serious operation afterwards. Some years passed away,
and whenever she saw the operator, she testified her joy and her gratitude in the most expressive
and endearing manner.

A short time since, the following scene took place in a street adjoining Hanover-square. It
was an exhibition of a highly interesting character, and worthy to be placed upon record. The
editor of the Lancet having heard that a French gentleman (M. Leonard), who had for some time
been engaged in instructing two dogs in various performances that required the exercise, not
merely of the natural instincts of the animal and the power of imitation, but of a higher intellect,
and a degree of reflection and judgment far greater than is commonly developed in the dog;
was residing in London, obtained an introduction, and was obligingly favoured by M. Leonard
with permission to hold a 'conversazione' with his extraordinary pupils. He thus describes
the interview:

Two fine dogs, of the Spanish breed, were introduced by M. Leonard, with the customary French
politesse, the largest by the name of M. Philax, the other as M. Brac (or spot); the former
had been in training three, the latter two, years. They were in vigorous health, and, having
bowed very gracefully, seated themselves on the hearth-rug side by side. M. Leonard then gave
a lively description of the means he had employed to develop the cerebral system in these animals--how,
from having been fond of the chase, and ambitious of possessing the best-trained dogs, he had
employed the usual course of training--how the conviction had been impressed on his mind, that
by gentle usage, and steady perseverance in inducing the animal to repeat again and again what
was required, not only would the dog be capable of performing that specific act, but that part
of the brain which was brought into activity by the mental effort would become more largely
developed, and hence a permanent increase of mental power be obtained.

This reasoning is in accordance with the known laws of the physiology of the nervous system,
and is fraught with the most important results. We may refer the reader interested in the subject
to the masterly little work of Dr. Verity, "Changes produced in the Nervous System by Civilization."

After this introduction, M. Leonard spoke to his dogs in French, in his usual tone, and ordered
one of them to walk, the other to lie down, to run, to gallop, halt, crouch, &c., which they
performed as promptly and correctly as the most docile children. Then he directed them to go
through the usual exercises of the 'manege', which they performed as well as the best-trained
ponies at Astley's.

He next placed six cards of different colours on the floor, and, sitting with his back to the
dogs, directed one to pick up the blue card, and the other the white, &c., varying his orders
rapidly, and speaking in such a manner that it was impossible the dogs could have executed
his commands if they had not had a perfect knowledge of the words. For instance, M. Leonard
said, "Philax, take the red card and give it to Brac; and, Brac, take the white card and give
it to Philax;" the dags instantly did this, and exchanged cards with each other. He then said,
"Philax, put your card on the green, and Brac, put yours on the blue;" and this was instantly
performed. Pieces of bread and meat were placed on the floor, with figured cards, and a variety
of directions were given to the dogs, so as to put their intelligence and obedience to a severe
test. They brought the meat, bread, or cards, as commanded, but did not attempt to eat or to
touch unless ordered. Philax was then ordered to bring a piece of meat and give it to Brac,
and then Brac was told to give it back to Philax, who was to return it to its place. Philax
was next told he might bring a piece of bread and eat it; but, before he had time to swallow
it, his master forbade him, and directed him to show that he had not disobeyed, and the dog
instantly protruded the crust between his lips.

While many of these feats were being performed, M. Leonard snapped a whip violently, to prove
that the animals were so completely under discipline, that they would not heed any interruption.

After many other performances, M. Leonard invited a gentleman to play a game of dominos with
one of them. The younger and slighter dog then seated himself on a chair at the table, and
the writer and M. Leonard seated themselves opposite. Six dominos were placed on their edges
in the usual manner before the dog, and a like number before the writer. The dog having a double
number, took one up in his mouth, and put it in the middle of the table; the writer placed
a corresponding piece on one side; the dog immediately played another correctly, and so on
until all the pieces were engaged. Other six dominos were then given to each, and the writer
intentionally placed a wrong number. The dog looked surprised, stared very earnestly at the
writer, growled, and finally barked angrily. Finding that no notice was taken of his remonstrances,
he pushed away the wrong domino with his nose, and took up a suitable one from his own pieces,
and placed it in its stead. The writer then played correctly; the dog followed, and won the
game. Not the slightest intimation could have been given by M. Leonard to the dog. This mode
of play must have been entirely the result of his own observation and judgment. It should be
added that the performances were strictly private. The owner of the dogs was a gentleman of
independent fortune, and the instruction of his dogs had been taken up merely as a curious
and amusing investigation. [1]

Another strange attainment of the dog is the learning to speak. The French Academicians mention
one of these animals that could call in an intelligible manner for tea, coffee, chocolate,
&c. The account is given by the celebrated Leibnitz, who communicated it to the Royal Academy
of France. He was, however, somewhat of a truant, and did not very willingly exert his talent,
and was rather pressed than otherwise into the service of literature. It was necessary that
the words should be pronounced to him each time, and then he repeated them after his preceptor.
Leibnitz attests that he heard the animal talk in this way, and the French Academicians add,
that unless they had received the testimony of so celebrated a person they would scarcely have
dared to report the circumstance. It took place in Misnia, in Saxony.

THE MORAL QUALITIES OF THE DOG.

We pass on to another division of our subject, 'the moral qualities of the dog', strongly developed
and beautifully displayed, and often putting the biped to shame.

It is truly said of the dog that he possesses

                        "Many a good
  And useful quality, and virtue too,
  Attachment never to be weaned or changed
  By any change of fortune; proof alike
  Against unkindness, absence, and neglect;
  Fidelity, that neither bribe nor threat
  Can move or warp; and gratitude, for small
  And trivial favours, lasting as the life,
  And glistening even in the dying eye."

It may here be noticed that, among the inferior animals with large nerves and more medullary
substance, there are acuter senses; but man, excelling them in the general bulk of his brain,
and more particularly in the cortical portion of it, has far superior powers of mind. These
are circumstances that deserve the deepest consideration. In their wild state the brutes have
no concern--no idea beyond their food and their reproduction. In their domesticated state,
they are doomed to be the servants of man. Their power of mind is sufficient to qualify them
for this service: but were proportionate intellectual capacity added to this--were they made
conscious of their strength, and of the objects that could be effected by it--they would burst
their bonds, and man would in his turn be the victim and the slave.

There is an important faculty, termed 'attention'. It is that which distinguishes the promising
pupil from him of whom no good hope could be formed, and the scientific man from the superficial
and ignorant one. The power of keeping the mind steadily bent upon one purpose, is the great
secret of individual and moral improvement. We see the habit of attention carried in the dog
to a very considerable extent. The terrier eagerly watching for vermin--the sporting dog standing
staunch to his point, however he may be annoyed by the blunders of his companion or the unskilfulness
of his master--the foxhound, insensible to a thousand scents, and deaf to every other sound,
while he anxiously and perseveringly searches out the track of his prey--these are striking
illustrations of the power of attention.

Then, the impression having been received, and the mind having been employed in its examination,
it is treasured up in the storehouse of the mind for future use.

This is the faculty of memory; and a most important one it is. Of the 'memory' of the 'dog',
and the recollection of kindness received, there are a thousand stories, from the return of
Ulysses to the present day, and we have seen enough of that faithful animal to believe most
of them. An officer was abroad with his regiment, during the American war. He had a fine Newfoundland
dog, his constant companion, whom he left with his family. After the lapse of several years
he returned. His dog met him at the door, leaped upon his neck, licked his face, and died.

Of the accuracy and retentiveness of memory in the dog, as respects the instruction he has
received from his master, we have abundant proof in the pointer and the hound, and it may perhaps
be with some of them, as with men, that the lesson must sometimes be repeated, and even impressed
on the memory in a way not altogether pleasant.

[We know an imported Irish setter, formerly in possession of a gentleman of this city, who
on many occasions, while hunting, displayed an extraordinary instinct, even sufficiently remarkable
to make us believe that he possessed not only the most acute powers of observation, but that
he also enjoyed the faculty of "inductive reasoning," independent of any mechanical training,
many of his performances being entirely voluntary, and the result of causes dependent upon
accidental circumstances alone: for instance, when lost from observation, he would noiselessly
withdraw from his point, hunt up his master, and induce him, by peculiar signs, to follow him
to the spot where he had previously observed the birds.

In his old days, "Smoke" was much opposed to hunting with an indifferent shot, and would leave
the field perfectly disgusted, after a succession of bad shooting; seeming to argue that he
no longer sought after game for amusement, but that he expected his efforts to be repaid by
the death of the birds.

This dog was of a morose and dignified disposition, surly with strangers, and inclined to quarrel
with any one who carried a stick or whip in their hands; never forgetting an injury, and growling
whenever any person who had offended him made their appearance. He was also particularly irritable
and tenacious of his rights when hunting, shunning all puppies or heedless dogs, and exhibiting
a very irascible disposition if superseded in a point by another dog; and on one occasion attacked
a young pointer in the field, who, in opposition to all his growling and show of irony, would
persist in crawling before him, when on a point.--L]

DOG-CARTS.

These were, and still are, in the country, connected with many an act of atrocious cruelty.
We do not object to the dog as a beast of draught. He is so in the northern regions, and he
is as happy as any other animal in those cold and inhospitable countries. He is so in Holland,
and he is as comfortable there as any other beast that wears the collar. He is not so in Newfoundland:
there he is shamefully treated. It is to the abuse of the thing, the poor and half-starved
condition of the animal, the scandalous weight that he is made to draw, and the infamous usage
to which he is exposed, that we object. We would put him precisely on the same footing with
the horse, and then we should be able, perhaps, to afford him, not all the protection we could
wish, but nearly as much as we have obtained for the horse. We would have every cart licensed,
not for the sake of adding to the revenue, but of getting at the owner; and therefore the taxing
need not be any great sum. We would have the cart licensed for the carrying of goods only;
or a separate license taken out if it carried or drew a human being.

It is here that the cruelty principally exists. Before the dog-carts were put down in the metropolis,
we then saw a man and a woman in one of these carts, drawn by a single dog, and going at full
trot. Every passenger execrated them, and the trot was increased to a gallop, in order more
speedily to escape the just reproaches that proceeded from every mouth. We would have the name
and address of the owner, and the number of the cart, painted on some conspicuous part of the
vehicle, and in letters and figures as large as on the common carts. Every passenger who witnessed
any flagrant act of cruelty would then be enabled to take the number of the cart, and summon
the owner; and the police should have the same power of interference which they have with regard
to other vehicles.

After a plan like this had been working a little while, the nuisance would be materially abated;
and, indeed, the consciousness of the ease with which the offender might be summoned, would
go far to get rid of it.

CROPPING.

This is an infliction of too much torture for the gratification of a nonsensical fancy; and,
after all, in the opinion of many, and of those, too, who are fondest of dogs, the animal looks
far better in his natural state than when we have exercised all our cruel art upon him. Besides,
the effects of this absurd amputation do not cease with the healing of the ear. The intense
inflammation that we have set up, materially injures the internal structure of this organ.
Deafness is occasionally produced by it in some dogs, and constantly in others. The frequent
deafness of the pug is solely attributable to the outrageous as well as absurd rounding of
his ears. The almost invariable deafness of the white wire-haired terrier is to be traced to
this cause.

[Among the many tastes and fancies that the Americans have inherited from their ancestors,
the English, may be enumerated the absurd practice of fashioning the ears of different breeds
of dogs to a certain standard of beauty. Mr. Blain very justly remarks that it must be a false
taste which has taught us to prefer a curtailed organ to a perfect one, without gaining any
convenience by the operation. The dogs upon which this species of barbecuing are more particularly
practised in this country, are the bull-dogs and terriers.

We imagine that many of our readers will be surprised when they learn that this operation,
although so simple in itself, and performed by every reckless stable-boy, is attended with
great suffering to the puppy, and not unfrequently with total deafness. Severe inflammation,
extending to the interior of the ear, often follows this operation, more especially when awkwardly
performed, as is frequently the case, by the aid of the miserable instruments within the reach
of our hostlers; to say nothing of the savage fashion of using the teeth for this purpose,
as is often done by ignorant fellows, who even take credit to themselves for the clever style
in which they perform this outlandish operation. Mr. Blain states, that it is a barbarous custom
to twist the ears off, by swinging the dog around; and we are satisfied that every sensible
person will respond to this humane sentiment. We have never had the misfortune to see this
latter method put into practice, and trust that such an operation is unknown among us, although,
from the manner in which this gentleman condemns it, we are led to suppose that this mode is
not uncommon in the old country.

As custom has sanctioned the cropping of dogs, in spite of all that can be said upon the subject,
it should be done in such a manner as to cause the least possible pain to the animal. The fourth
or fifth week is the proper age for this operation; if done sooner, the flap is apt to sprout
and become deformed: if later, the cartilage has grown more thick and sensitive. The imaginary
beauty of a terrier crop consists in the foxy appearance of the ears, which is easily produced
by the clean cut of a sharp, strong pair of scissors. The first cut should commence at the
posterior base of the ear, near to the head, and be carried to the extremity of the flap, taking
off about the eighth of an inch or more in width. The second cut should extend from the base
of the ear in front, somewhat obliquely, to intersect the other cut within a few lines of the
point of the flap. These two cuts will shape the ear in such a style as to please the most
fastidious eye, and will require no further trimming. The pieces taken from the first ear will
answer as guides in cutting the other. The mother should not be allowed to lick the ears of
the puppies, as is generally done, under the supposition that she assists in the healing process,
when, in fact, she irritates them, and occasions increased inflammation. If the wounds are
tardy at healing, or become mangy, they may be bathed gently with a weak solution of alum.

We regret to find that Mr. Skinner, so well known to the sporting world as the able extoller
and defender of the rights of our canine friends, should recommend the cropping of terriers.
We are convinced that he would change his feelings upon this subject, if he placed any confidence
in the opinions of Blain, Youatt, Scott, or Daniel, all of whom condemn the practice as barbarous,
and as often occasioning great suffering, and even total deafness, throughout the progeny of
successive generations, as witnessed in the white wire-haired terrier and pug above mentioned.

Wo have had the good fortune to persuade some of our friends to desist from thus mutilating
their terrier pups, all of whom, consequently, grew up with beautiful full ears and long tails,
which were much admired; and to the eyes of many, the dogs seemed more sprightly and knowing
with their long flaps, than when deprived of those natural appendages.--L.]

TAILING.

Then 'the tail' of the dog does not suit the fancy of the owner. It must be shortened in some
of these animals, and taken off altogether in others. If the sharp, strong scissors, with a
ligature, were used, the operation, although still indefensible, would not be a very cruel
one, for the tail may be removed almost in a moment, and the wound soon heals; but for the
beastly gnawing off of the part, and the drawing out of the tendons and nerves--these are the
acts of a cannibal; and he who orders or perpetrates a barbarity so nearly approaching to cannibalism,
deserves to be scouted from all society.

[As a matter of necessity, we cannot sanction the too frequent and cruel practice of cutting
or otherwise barbecuing different portions of the bodies of our domestic animals, and more
particularly the often absurd fancy or cropping and sterning dogs. Nevertheless, we must admit
the propriety of, and, in fact, recommend, the taking off a small portion of the pointer's
tail, not to increase his beauty, but to save him some after suffering. A long tail is frequently
lacerated in close thickets, and thus rendered sore and mangy: this is prevented by the operation,
as it becomes better protected by the body, as also more thickly covered by the feather which
generally forms over it.

When the pups are a month or six weeks old, this operation can be performed with little pain
to the animal, by means of sharp scissors or a knife; but never allow any one to bite the tail
off, as is often done by some dirty and unfeeling stable-men. Although a long tail is inconvenient,
a too short one is more unsightly; care should therefore be taken not to remove too much. The
quantity should be regulated by the size of the breed: for a medium breed, an inch is sufficient
to be cut off at this age. Some sportsmen in England, Mr. Blain also informs us, draw out the
lower tendons of the tail, which present themselves after amputation, with a pair of forceps,
with a view of causing the tail to be carried higher, which adds to the style and appearance
of the dog, when in the field. This practice, we agree with Mr. Youatt, is cannibal-like, and
very painful; and, to say the least of it, of very doubtful propriety, as it is but seldom
we find a good breed of dog carrying, while hunting, a slovenly tail.

If there should be any appearance of hemorrhage after this operation, a small piece of tape
or twine may be tied around the tail, which will immediately arrest the bleeding. This ligature
should not remain on longer than a few hours, as the parts included in it will be apt to slough
and make a mangy ulcer, difficult to heal.--L.]

DEW-CLAWS

Next comes the depriving the dog of his 'dew-claws'--the supplementary toes a little above
the foot. They are supposed to interfere with hunting by becoming entangled with the grass
or underwood. This rarely happens. The truth of the matter is, they are simply illustrations
of the uniformity of structure which prevails in all animals, so far as is consistent with
their destiny. The 'dew-claws' only make up the number of toes in other animals. If they are
attached, as they are in some dogs, simply by a portion of skin, they may be removed without
any very great pain, yet the man of good feeling would not meddle with them. He would not unnecessarily
inflict any pain that he can avoid; and here, in several of the breeds, the toe is united by
an actual joint; and if they are dissected because they are a little in the way, it is a barbarous
operation, and nothing can justify it.

[Notwithstanding our author's condemnation of this practice, there are many sportsmen who think
it very necessary to remove this supernumerary toe, fearing that it may interfere with the
dog while hunting, as above stated.

Mr. Blain, both a practical sportsman and scientific gentleman, to whose opinions we must at
all times show a due regard, considers the removal of these false appendages very necessary,
stating that they often become troublesome, not only in the field, but that they frequently
turn in and wound the flesh with their nails.

We have never seen any particular inconvenience arising from the presence of these dew-claws,
and are not in the habit of taking them off; but, as the operation is a trifling one, and attended
with little or no pain, we are disposed to recommend its general adoption, as it improves the
appearance of the legs; and their presence may sometimes prove inconvenient to the animal,
as stated by Mr. Blain. These claws most commonly have a ligamentous attachment only to the
leg, which may be divided, a few days after birth, by a pair of sharp scissors or a knife;
and if a bony union exists, it is generally of such a trifling nature that it can be severed
in the same way.--L.]

The cruelties that are perpetrated on puppies during the course of their education or 'breaking-in',
are sometimes infamous. Young dogs, like young people, must be to a certain degree coerced;
but these animals receive from nature so great an aptitude for learning, and practising that
which we require of them, and their own pleasure is so much connected with what they learn,
that there is no occasion for one-tenth part of the correction that is occasionally inflicted;
and the frequent consequence of the cruelty to which they are subjected, is cowardice or ferocity
during life.

Not many years ago, as the author was going over one of the commons in the neighbourhood of
the metropolis, now enclosed, he heard the loud sounds of the lash and the screams of a dog.
He hurried on, and found two men, one holding a greyhound while another was unmercifully flogging
him. He had inflicted many lashes, and was continuing the correction. The author indignantly
interfered, and the dog was liberated, but with a great deal of abuse from the men; and a gentleman
galloping up, and who was the owner of the dog, and a Middlesex magistrate to boot, seemed
disposed to support his people in no very measured terms On being addressed, however, by name,
and recognising the speaker, and his attention being directed to the 'whaled' and even bloody
state of the dog, he offered the best excuse that he could.

We met again some months afterwards. "That hiding," said he, "that offended you so much did
Carlo good, for he has not been touched since." "No," was the reply; "you were a little ashamed
of your fellows, and have altered your system, and find that your dogs do not want this unmerciful
negro-whipping."

Stories are told of the 'kennel-hare'--a hare kept on purpose, and which is sometimes shown
to the fox or stag-hounds. The moment that any of them open, they are tied up to the whipping-post,
and flogged, while the keepers at every stroke call out "Ware hare!" A sheep has also been
shown to them, or still is, after which another unmerciful flogging is administered, amidst
cries of "Ware sheep!" If this is not sufficient, some of the wool is dipped in train oil,
and put into the dog's mouth, which is sewed up for many hours in order to cure him of sheep-biting.
There was an almost similar punishment for killing poultry; and there was the 'puzzle' and
the 'check-collar', cruelly employed, for killing other dogs.

There is a great deal of truth, and there may occasionally be some exaggeration, in these accounts;
but the sportsman who is indebted for the pleasures of the field to the intelligence and exertions
of his horses and his dogs, is bound, by every principle that can influence an honourable mind,
to defend them from all wanton and useless cruelty. There is a dog, and a faithful and valuable
one, that powerfully demands the assistance of the humane--the yard or watch-dog. He is not
only for the most part deprived of his liberty, but too often neglected and made unnecessarily
to suffer. How seldom do we see him in the enjoyment of a good bed of straw, or, rather, how
frequently is everything about his kennel in a most filthy and disgusting state! The following
hint not only relates to him, but to every dog that is tied up out of doors. "Their cribs or
their kennels, as they are called, should be constructed so as to turn, in order to prevent
their inmates from being exposed to the cutting blasts of winter. Where they have no other
refuge, all animals seek shelter from the weather by turning their backs to the wind; but,
as the dog thus confined cannot do so, his kennel should be capable of turning, or at least
should be placed so as not to face the weather more than is necessary. The premises would be
in quite as great security, for the dog depends as much upon his ear and sense of smell as
upon his eye, and would equally detect a stranger's presence if he were deprived of sight."

In the Zoological Gardens, an old blind dog used to be placed at the door of the dissecting-house.
Few had any business there, and every one of them he, after a while, used to recognise and
welcome full ton yards off, by wagging his tail; at the same distance, he would begin to growl
at a stranger unless accompanied by a friend. From the author's long habit of noticing him,
he used to recognise his step before it would seem possible for its sound to be heard. He followed
him with his sightless eyes in whatever direction he moved, and was not satisfied until he
had patted and fondled him.

DOG-PITS.

Of the demoniacal use of the dog in the 'fighting-pits', and the atrocities that were committed
there, I will not now speak. These places were frequented by few others than the lowest of
the low. Cruelties were there inflicted that seemed to be a libel on human nature; and such
was the baneful influence of the scene, that it appeared to be scarcely possible for any one
to enter these pits without experiencing a greater or less degree of moral degradation.

The public dog-pits have now been put down; but the system of dog-fighting, with most of its
attendant atrocities, still continues. There are many more low public-houses than there used
to be pits, that have roomy places behind, and out of sight, where there are regular meetings
for this purpose. Those among the neighbours who cannot fail of being annoyed and disgusted
by the frequent uproar, might give a clue to these dens of infamy; and the depriving of a few
of the landlords of their license would go a great way towards the effectual suppression of
the practice.

Would it be thought possible that certain of our young aristocracy keep fighting-dogs at the
repositories of various dealers in the outskirts of the metropolis; and that these animals
remain there, as it were, at livery, the owners coming at their pleasure, and making and devising
what matches they think proper?

However disgraceful it may be, it is actually the fact. Here is a field for "the suppression
of cruelty!"

DOG-STEALING.

The practice of stealing dogs is both directly and indirectly connected with a great deal of
cruelty. There are more than twenty miscreants who are well known to subsist by picking up
dogs in the street. There are generally two of them together with aprons rolled round their
waists. The dog is caught up at the corner of one of the streets, concealed in a moment in
the apron, and the thieves are far away before the owner suspects the loss. These dogs, that
have been used to every kind of luxury, are crowded into dark and filthy cellars, where they
become infected by various diseases. The young ones have distemper, and the old ones mange,
and all become filled with vermin. There they remain until a sufficient reward is offered for
their recovery, or they are sent far into the country, or shipped for France or some other
foreign market. Little or nothing is done by punishing the inferior rogues in this traffic.
The blow must be struck at those of a superior class. I will not assert that every dog-dealer
is in league with, and profits by, the lower thieves; but it is true of a great many of them,
and it is the principal and most lucrative part of their trade. They are likewise intimately
connected with the dog-fights, and encourage them, for the sake of their trade as dealers.
An attempt should be made to bring the matter home to these scoundrels. [2]

[Dog-stealing, we are more particularly informed by Col. Hawker, is reduced to a perfect system
in London, and carried on by a set of fellows who, by their cunning and peculiar knack, are
enabled to avoid all detection in their nefarious traffic, and thus, by extortion of rewards
or sales of stolen dogs, reap a rich harvest for the whole fraternity from the well-stored
pockets of the numerous dog-fanciers of the English capital.

The villains engaged in this business are known among themselves under the too often abused
sobriquet of "the Fancy," and assuming the garb of different mechanics, prowl about the streets,
oftentimes with the proper tools in their hands, carelessly watching the movements of every
dog that passes by, ready to grab him up the first fitting opportunity. The dog is then concealed
till a suitable reward is offered for him, when, through the intervention of a third person,
a trusty agent of the society, he is delivered over to his rightful owner, the actual rogue
never appearing in the whole transaction.

If no reward, or an insufficient one, is offered for the recovery of the dog, he is either
sent off to the country, or, perhaps, cautiously exposed for sale in some distant quarter of
the city, or perhaps killed for his skin alone.

These gentry, however, prefer returning dogs to their owners for a moderate compensation, as
they thus know at what rate the animal is valued, and cherish the hope of soon being able to
steal him again, and thus obtaining another reward.

There have been instances of a lady paying, in successive rewards, a sum not less than fifteen
guineas for a miserable little lap-dog not worth as many shillings.

If anything is said about the law, or threats of prosecution held out in the notice offering
a reward for a "lost or stolen dog," the death of the kidnapped animal is inevitable, as the
"Fancy" prefer sacrificing an occasional prize rather than run the risk of detection by some
enthusiastic or stubborn dog owner. These fellows, as well as thieves generally, are said to
have a method of quieting the fiercest watch-dogs by throwing them a narcotic ball, which they
call "puddening the animal."

The following account, extracted from Hawker's work, will give the American reader a 'perfect'
insight into the maneuvering of these sharpers.

  "In the month of May, 1830, Mr. Lang lost a favourite setter. He
  posted handbills offering two guineas reward; on hearing of which a
  man came and told him the reward was not enough, but that if he would
  make it four guineas he could find his dog, and the amount must be
  deposited in the hands of a landlord who would procure him a
  ticket-card. He should then be met to his appointment in some private
  field, where he would receive his dog on condition that no questions
  should be asked. Mr. Lang sent his shopman, about half-past ten at
  night, to White Conduit Fields to meet the parties, who, on receiving
  the ticket, delivered up the dog. But there was great hesitation in
  transacting this affair, in consequence of the dog having on a lock to
  a steel chain collar with Mr. Lang's name, and which, therefore,
  induced them to proceed with extreme caution, through fear, as they
  supposed, of detection for felony. The whole amount paid for
  recovering this setter was L4 17s., L2 10s. of which went to the men
  who had him. The rest was divided among others of the "Fancy". The
  same person who gave Mr. Lang the information, said that if ever he
  lost a dog, and applied to him, he could undertake to get him back
  again within thirty-six hours, provided he would make it worth his
  while to do so; because all dogs taken by the "Fancy" are brought to
  their office and regularly booked by the secretary."
  ('Hawker on Shooting', p. 592.)--L.]

[Footnote 1: Plutarch relates that, at the theatre of Marcellus, a dog was exhibited before
the emperor Vespasian, so well instructed as to exercise in every kind of dance. He afterwards
feigned illness in a most singular manner, so as to strike the spectators with astonishment.
He first exhibited various symptoms of pain; he then fell down as if dead, and, afterwards
seeming to revive, as if waking from a profound sleep, and then sported about and showed various
demonstrations of joy.]

[Footnote 2: Mr. Bishop, of Bond-street, has assured the public, that he is able to prove that
money has recently been extorted from the owners of dogs by dog-stealers and their confederates,
to the amount of more than a thousand pounds. Surely this calls for the decided interposition
of the legislature. A strange case of atrocity and cruelty was related by a gentleman to Mr.
Bishop.

  "A young dog of mine," says he, "was lost in London, and, being aware
  that if a noise was made about it, a great price would be asked for
  it, I gave out that I wanted to purchase one: I was shown my own dog.
  I seized it; but there were several scoundrels present who professed
  to belong to it, and threatened to kill the dog if I did not pay for
  it. I proceeded to describe it as my own, stating that it had 'bad
  back or double teeth'. Judge of my surprise when, after great
  difficulty, and the dog crying greatly, its mouth was opened, and all
  the back teeth had been taken out! I paid two pounds for it before
  they would let me take it away; but, in consequence of the injuries it
  had received, it died a few days afterward."]

       *       *       *       *       *

INTRODUCTION TO CANINE PATHOLOGY.

BY THE EDITOR.

PREDISPOSITION TO, AND CAUSES OF, DISEASES IN DOGS.--THE CLAIMS OF DOGS UPON US.

  "Unnumbered accidents and various ills
  Attend thy pack, hang hovering o'er their heads,
  And point the way that leads to death's dark cave.
  Short is their span, few at the date arrive
  Of ancient Argus, in old Homer's song
  So highly honour'd."

The dog from early youth, in fact oftentimes at the very period of birth, is exposed to many
dangerous and troublesome affections, the result of causes not less complex and multifarious
than those that exert an influence over the human organization. Many diseases are the consequence
of their domesticity and the hereditary defects of their progenitors, others are dependent
upon accidental circumstances, bad treatment, and improper nourishment. Not a few, however,
of their most mortal maladies are the production of contagion, infection, and other like causes,
all exercising a general tendency to disease difficult to define and impossible to avoid.

Although every species of dog is more or less subject to certain diseases peculiar to their
race, those breeds of most value and more particularly subservient to the will of man are liable
to a greater number of ills and casualties than other dogs, for the reason that they are more
frequently exposed to unnatural fatigue, extremes of heat and cold, as also to the various
dangers dependent upon the chase of wild animals. Those diseases resulting from specific causes,
either natural to the race or artificially produced by the animal itself in a state of morbid
derangement, are most frequent and fatal, as witnessed in distemper, rabies, mange, &c. The
intimate connexion existing between the diseases of our canine friends and those of the human
race, as also the strong similarity in the action of many drugs over the two systems, render
the study of one branch almost synonymous with that of the other.

A little attention, therefore, on the part of the physician will render him quite familiar
with and competent to relieve the many sufferings of these our most faithful and grateful of
companions, and at the same time create an interest in a study that cannot fail to be productive
of pleasure as well as information.

This subject, though claiming the attention of many skilful and intelligent persons in England
and other countries, has scarce been thought of among us, and the mere mention of an infirmary
or hospital for the accommodation of invalid dogs, would involuntarily create a smile of incredulity
or contempt upon the face of most of our countrymen. Notwithstanding this display of ignorance
and positive want of humane feeling for animal suffering, or a just appreciation of canine
worth, we must beg leave to inform these unbelievers that such institutions are quite numerous
in many large cities of the old world; and they must also learn that these institutions are
conducted by gentlemen of science upon a system not less regular and useful in this particular
branch, than similar establishments appropriated for the relief of suffering humanity.

To these hospitals hundreds of valuable sick dogs are annually sent, where they receive every
attention, and are often snatched from the very jaws of death, or prevented, when attacked
by rabies or other frightful affections, from doing mischief or propagating infection. Medicines
the most potent are administered to these interesting patients with the utmost care, either
as assuagers of temporary pain, or as remedial agents in the cure of disease. Operations the
most complex are performed with the greatest skill, and every attention is bestowed upon these
invalids in their different wards, and no trouble is considered too great to save the life
and secure the services of a valuable and faithful dog.

As we have no such establishments in this country, and but a few persons upon whom we can rely
for assistance in case of need, it behooves every lover of the dog to make himself familiar
with, and the mode of treating the most prominent affections of these companions of our sports,
and at the same time acquire a knowledge of the operations of certain medicines upon the system
in a state of health or disease, so that our trusty followers may not be left to the tender
mercies and physicking propensities of ignorant stablemen, or the officious intermeddling of
the "pill-directing horse doctor."

The necessity of resorting to the assistance of either one or the other of these worthies is
equally unfortunate, as the former will most generally kill the patient by slow degrees in
forcibly and largely administering the two modern specifics for all canine affections, viz.:
"soap pills and flowers of sulphur." While the latter, more bold but not less ignorant than
the former, and his practice is perhaps the preferable of the two evils, will murder the dog
out-right by the free exhibition of calomel, nux vomica and other deleterious substances, of
the operation of which he has but little knowledge or conception. This latter system, as before
said, is the most preferable, as its adoption secures for our favourite a speedy termination
of his sufferings, and also relieves our own minds from a state of suspense that illustrates
too forcibly the remark, "Hope deferred maketh the heart sick."

REMEDIAL MEANS FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES.

There are but few remedies useful for the cure of diseases in the human race that might not
he employed by a skilful practitioner in overcoming the same or different ailments in the dog.
There are, however, several drugs that cannot be used in the same proportions for the one as
for the other, without danger of producing fatal consequences, as instanced in calomel, a medicine
so often abused by those who pretend to a knowledge of its administration in the maladies of dogs.

This article, though given with impunity to mankind in doses varying from five grains to twenty
grains, as also oftentimes administered to horses in quantities three or four times as great,
without any appreciable effect, will not unfrequently, in minute doses of three grains to four
grains, produce the most violent symptoms in the strongest dogs. We have seen severe vomiting
and purging occasioned by these small doses, and we once salivated a large mastiff by the administration
of two blue pills. It is thus that both the regular physician, and even the veterinary surgeon,
unacquainted with this remarkable peculiarity, will make fatal mistakes; and how much oftener
must such blunders take place when we intrust our canine friends to the care of stable-boys,
or a "routine horse-doctor!"

Nux vomica, another medicine much used, and most important in the treatment of all nervous
affections, is particularly noxious to dogs even in small quantities; a dose sufficient for
a human subject under some circumstances, would almost inevitably destroy the animal under
the same or analogous conditions.

A drachm of the powdered nux vomica is sufficient to destroy the largest and most powerful
dog, while a few grains will sometimes produce death in a few minutes if administered to smaller
animals.

We prescribed forty grains in a roll of butter for a worthless cur a short time since, which,
as expected, produced great anxiety, difficulty of respiration, severe vomiting, tremors, spasmodic
twitchings of the muscles, convulsions, and ultimate death in the course of half an hour. This
powerful drug acts by causing a spasmodic stricture of the muscles engaged in respiration,
as no signs of inflammation are observable in the stomach and other organs after death.

Spirits of turpentine, another remedy both simple and innocent in its operations upon the human
economy, and so frequently prescribed for the expulsion of worms from the bowels, is a dangerous
medicine for a dog, and will often in very small quantities prove fatal.

Aloes, a medicine more extensively used in canine pathology than any other in the materia medica,
is also very peculiar in its operations upon these animals, they being able to bear immense
doses of it, in fact quite sufficient to produce death if given to a hearty man.

Thus we might continue to enumerate other drugs which we have ascertained, from practical observation
as well as the experiments of other, to exercise a peculiar action on the vital functions of
the whole canine race, quite at variance with that common to both man and the other domestic
animals.

In combating with the diseases of animals, the veterinary surgeon has more to contend with
than the regular physician, and, in fact, should possess a knowledge and habit of observation
even superior to the former; although the responsibility of his calling, in a moral sense,
is much inferior to that of the other, as the importance of animal existence, under no circumstances,
can be placed in comparison with that of human life: still acuteness of observation alone can
direct him to the main cause of suffering in the brute creation, as the animal, though groaning
under the most severe pains, cannot by any word of explanation point out to us the seat, the
probable cause, or peculiar characteristics of such pain. We see that our dog is ill, he refuses
his food, retires gloomily to his house, looks sullen, breathes heavy, is no longer delighted
at our call. We cannot question him as to his feelings, or ask him to point out the particular
region of his sufferings; we watch his motions, study his actions, and rely for our diagnosis
upon general symptoms deduced from close observation.

Besides these external ocular evidences of morbid action, we have, as in the human subject,
guides to direct us in forming a just opinion as to the nature of a dog's indisposition.

The state of the circulation is the first thing that should command our particular attention.

The pulse of dogs in health varies from one hundred to one hundred and twenty strokes per minute,
according to the size and peculiar temperament of the animal, being more frequent in the small
breeds.

The standard of the setter, pointer, hound, &c., may be stated at one hundred and five.

The action of the heart may be felt by placing the hand immediately over that organ, or applying
the fingers to several points in the body and limbs where the large arteries are somewhat superficial,
as on the inside of the fore-knee and the thigh of the hind-leg.

If the pulse in a state of rest exceeds the average standard in frequency, regularity, and
softness, and a general feeling of uneasiness be present, together with reddened eyes, warm
nose, and coated tongue, we know at once that there is an unnatural derangement of the vital
functions, and that fever in some form is present. The next question to determine is, upon
what does this fever depend? whether it be idiopathic, arising from morbific causes difficult
to define, or whether it be sympathetic, with some organic affection yet to be discovered.

The appearance of the tongue in canine diseases will often materially assist us in forming
a correct diagnosis; this organ in simple fever loses its rose-colour and becomes pale and
coated, the gums and faeces also participate in this change.

If, however, the tongue be much furred, with a bright inflammatory appearance around the edges,
with high arterial excitement, and disgust of food, with general anxiety and craving for water
in small but frequent quantities, inflammation of the stomach or bowels may be suspected. If,
on the other hand, the tongue remains brown and streaked, with less action of the pulse, variable
appetite and diminution of pain, derangement of the liver may be apprehended.

If, in connection with some or all of the above symptoms, the breathing be laboured and painful,
with a disposition to remain in the erect or sitting position, with great anxiety and general
distress, we must look to the pulmonic viscera as the seat of the disease.

Thus, by examining each and every individual symptom of disease, the intelligent sportsman
will soon be able to arrive at the proximate cause of all this unnatural state of things, and
then he will be competent to administer such remedies as may seem most likely to afford relief.
Without these precautions, however, he would often be groping in the dark, and, consequently,
not unfrequently, apply those remedies more calculated to aggravate than cure the malady.

[As with all the illustrations in this text, the canine skeleton and legend to the diagram
are displayed fully in the html version.]

DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

FITS

24th Feb. 1814.--A pug was accustomed to howl frequently when his young master played on the
flute. If the higher notes were sounded, he would leap on his master's lap, look in his face,
and howl vehemently. To-day the young man purposely blew the shrillest sound that he could.
The dog, after howling three or four times, began to run round the room, and over the tables
and chairs, barking incessantly. This he continued more than an hour.

When I saw him all consciousness of surrounding objects was gone. He was still running feebly,
but barking might and main.

I dashed a basin of cold water in his face, and he dropped as if he had been shot. He lay motionless
nearly a minute, and then began to struggle and to bark; another cup of water was dashed in
his face, and he lay quite motionless during two minutes or more. In the mean time I had got
a grain each of calomel and tartar emetic, which I put on his tongue, and washed it down with
a little water. He began to recover, and again began to yelp, although much softer; but, in
about a quarter of an hour, sickness commenced, and he ceased his noise. He vomited three or
four times, and lay frightened and quiet. A physic-ball was given him in the evening, and on
the following morning.

On the next day the young man put open the door, and sat himself down, and began to prepare
the flute; the dog was out in a moment, and did not return during a couple of hours. On the
following day he made his escape again, and so the matter went on; but before the expiration
of the week, his master might play the flute if he pleased.

TURNSIDE, OR GIDDINESS.

This is a singular disease prevalent among cattle, but only occasionally seen in the dog. He
becomes listless, dull, off his food, and scarcely recognises any surrounding object. He has
no fit, but he wanders about the room fur several hours at a time, generally or almost invariably
in the same direction, and with his head on one side. At first he carefully avoids the objects
that are in his way; but by degrees his mental faculties become impaired; his sense of vision
is confused or lost, and he blunders against everything: in fact, if uninterrupted, he would
continue his strange perambulation incessantly, until he was fairly worn out and died in convulsions.

I used to consider the complaint to be uniformly fatal. I have resorted to every remedial measure
that the case could suggest. I have bled, and physicked and setoned, and blistered, and used
the moxa; but all without avail, for not in a single case did I save my patient.

No opportunity of 'post-mortem' examination was lost. In some cases I have found spicula projecting
from the inner plate of the skull, and pressing upon or even penetrating the dura mater. I
know not why the dog should be more subject to these irregularities of cranial surface than
any of our other patients; but decidedly he is so, and where they have pressed upon the brain,
there has been injection of the membranes, and sometimes effusion between them.

In some cases I have found effusion without this external pressure, and, in some cases, but
comparatively few, there has not been any perceptible lesion. Hydatids have been found in the
different passages leading to the cranium, but they have not penetrated.

I used to recommend that the dog should be destroyed; but I met with two or three favourable
cases, and, after that, I determined to try every measure that could possibly be serviceable.
I bled, and physicked, and inserted setons, and tried to prevent the utter exhaustion of the
animal. When he was unable longer to perform his circumvolutions, and found that he was foiled,
he laid himself down, and by degrees resumed his former habits. He was sadly impatient and
noisy; but in a few cases he was cured.

[We have seen but two or three cases of this disease in dogs, are led to believe that it is
quite uncommon with our domestic animals. One case in a valuable setter came on suddenly, and
without any apparent cause (except perhaps over-feeding), and terminated fatally in the course
of a few days.--L.]

EPILEPSY

in the dog assumes a most fatal character. It is an accompaniment, or a consequence, of almost
every other disease. When the puppy is undergoing the process of dentition, the irritation
produced by the pressure of the tooth, as it penetrates the gum, leads on to epilepsy. When
he is going through the stages of distemper, with a very little bad treatment, or in spite
of the best, fits occur. The degree of intestinal irritation which is caused by worms, is marked
by an attack of epilepsy. If the usual exercise be neglected for a few days, and the dog is
taken out, and suffered to range as he likes, the accumulation of excitability is expended
in a fit.

The dog is, without doubt, the most intellectual animal. He is the companion and the friend
of man: he exhibits, and is debased by some of his vices; but, to a greater degree than many
will allow, he exhibits all the intelligence and the virtues of the biped. In proportion to
his bulk, the weight of his brain far exceeds that of any other quadruped--the very smallest
animals alone being excepted, in whom there must be a certain accumulation of medullary matter
in order to give origin to the nerves of every system, as numerous in the minutest as in him
of greatest bulk.

As it has been said of the human being that great power and exertion of the mental faculties
are sometimes connected with a tendency to epilepsy, and, as violent emotions of joy or of
grief have been known to be followed by it, I can readily account for its occurrence in the
young dog, when frightened at the chiding of his master, or by the dread of a punishment which
he was conscious that he had deserved. Then, too, I can understand that, when breaking loose
from long confinement, he ranges in all the exuberance of joy; and especially when he flushes
almost his first covey, and the game falls dead before him, his mental powers are quite overcome,
and he falls into an epileptic fit.

The treatment of epilepsy in the dog is simple, yet often misunderstood. It is connected with
distemper in its early stage. It is the produce of inflammation of the mucous passages generally,
which an emetic and a purgative will probably, by their direct medicinal effect, relieve, and
free the digestive passages from some source of irritation, and by their mechanical action
unburthen the respiratory ones.

When it is symptomatic of a weak state of the constitution, or connected with the after stages
of distemper, the emeto-purgative must be succeeded by an anodyne, or, at least, by that which
will strengthen, but not irritate the patient.

A seton is an admirable auxiliary in epilepsy connected with distemper; it is a counter-irritant
and a derivative, and its effects are a salutary discharge, under the influence of which inflammation
elsewhere will gradually abate.

I should, however, be cautious of bleeding in distemper fits. I should be fearful of it even
in an early stage, because I well know that the acute form of that general mucous inflammation
soon passes over, and is succeeded by a debility, from the depression of which I cannot always
rouse my patient. When the fits proceed from dentition, I lance the jaws, and give an emetic,
and follow it up with cooling purgative medicine. When they are caused by irregular and excessive
exercise, I open the bowels and make my exercise more regular and equable. When they arise
from excitation, I expose my patient more cautiously to the influence of those things which
make so much impression on his little but susceptible mind.

If the fit has resisted other means, bleeding should be resorted to. A fit in other animals
is generally connected with dangerous determination of blood to the head, and bleeding is imperative.
A fit in the dog may be the consequence of sudden surprise and irritation. If I had the means
I should see whether I could not break the charm; whether I could not get rid of the disturbance,
by suddenly affecting the nervous system, and the system generally, in another way. I would
seize him by the nape of the neck, and, with all my force, dash a little cold water in his
face. The shock of this has often dispersed the epileptic agency, as it were by magic. I would
give an emeto-purgative; a grain or a grain and a half of calomel and the same quantity of
tartar emetic: I would soothe and coax the poor animal. Then,--and if I saw it at the beginning,
I would do it early,--if the fit was more dependent upon, or was beginning to be connected
with, determination of blood to the head, and not on any temporary cause of excitation or irritation,
I would bleed freely from the jugular.

The following singular case of epilepsy is narrated by M.W. Leblanc:

A dog of small size, three years old, was very subject to those epileptic fits that are so
frequent among dogs. After a considerable period, the fits would cease, and the animal recover
the appearance of perfect health; but the more he advanced in age the more frequent were the
fits, which is contrary to that which usually happens.

The last fit was a very strong one, and was followed by peculiar symptoms. The animal became
dispirited. The eyes lost their usual lively appearance, and the eyelids were often closed.
The dog was very drowsy, and, during sleep, there were observed, from time to time, spasmodic
movements, principally of the head and chest. 'He always lay down on the left side'. When he
walked, he had a marked propensity to turn to the left.

M. Leblanc employed purgatives, a seton to the back part of the neck, and the application of
the cautery to the left side of the forehead; but nothing would stop the progress of the disease,
and he died in the course of two months after the last fit. The nearer he approached his end
the smaller were the circles that he took; and, in the latter part of his existence, he did
little more than turn as if he were on a pivot, and, when the time arrived that he could walk
no more, he used to lay himself down on the right side.

On the 'post-mortem' examination, a remarkable thickness of the meninges was found on almost
the whole of the left lobe of the brain. The dura mater, the two leaves of the arachnoid membrane,
and the pia mater did not constitute more than one membrane of the usual thickness, and presented
a somewhat yellow colouring. The cerebral substance of the left lobe appeared to be a little
firmer than that of the right lobe. The fissures of the cerebral devolutions were much less
deep than those of the other side The red vessels which ran in the fissures were of smaller
size, and in some places could scarcely be discovered.

[Confinement, over-feeding, blows on the head or spine, drying up of old ulcers, repelling
of cutaneous affections, or, in fact, anything that is liable to derange the general health
of the animal, will produce epileptic fits.

We formerly had a beagle hound of very active temperament, which we were necessarily obliged
to keep much confined while in the city; and to restrain her from running too wildly when taken
into the streets, we were in the habit of coupling her with a greyhound of much milder disposition.
Not being willing to submit lamely to this unpleasant check upon her liberty, she was ever
making fruitless attempts to escape, either by thrusting herself forwards, or obstinately pulling
backwards. These efforts resulted on several occasions in fits, produced by congestion of the
brain, owing to the pressure of the collar on the neck, thereby interrupting the circulation,
and inducing an influx of blood to those parts. We were ultimately obliged to abandon this
method of restraint, which nearly proved fatal to our much-admired beagle: she being suddenly
seized with one of these fits on a hot summer's day in one of our principal thoroughfares,
the crowd of ignorant bystanders concluded it to be a case of rabies, and nothing but my taking
her up in my arms, and carrying her from the scene of action, saved her from falling a victim
to their ignorance.

If the disease appears dependent upon plethora the result of confinement and gross living,
the animal must be reduced by bleeding and purging, low diet, and exercise. If, however, the
malady proceeds from weakness, as is sometimes the case in bitches while suckling a large litter,
it will be necessary to relieve her of some of the pups, and supply her with the most nutritious
diet, as also administer tonic balls; the following will answer.

[Symbol: Rx]:   Extract of Gentian, Quassia, aa (each) grs. V, made into two pills, and one
or two given morning and evening;

or,

[Symbol: Rx]:   Powdered Columbo. Carbonate of Iron, aa, grs. V, made into two pills, and one
given morning and evening, or more frequently if desirable.

A seton placed in the poll will often prevent these attacks, particularly when depending upon
slight cerebral irritation, accompanying distemper and mange. Blisters and frictions to the
spine are also serviceable.--L.]

CHOREA.

This is an irregular reception or distribution of nervous power--a convulsive involuntary twitching
of some muscle or set of muscles. It is an occasional consequence of distemper that has been
unusually severe or imperfectly treated, and sometimes it is seen even after that disease has
existed in its mildest form.

[This nervous affection, more commonly known as St. Vitus' dance, is not a rare disease, and
we doubt not that examples of it have been seen by most of our readers, more particularly in
young dogs affected with distemper.

This malady is characterized by sudden involuntary twitchings of the different muscles of the
body, the disease being sometimes confined to one limb, sometimes to two, and frequently pervades
the whole system, giving the dog a distressing and painful appearance. These involuntary motions,
it is very true, are generally restricted during sleep, although in old chronic cases of long
standing they often continue in full activity without any remission whatever. The disease is
not attended with fever, and all the functions generally remain for a considerable time unimpaired.--L.]

It first appears in one leg or shoulder, and is long, or perhaps entirely, confined to that
limb. There is a singular spasmodic jerking action of the limb. It looks like a series of pulsations,
and averages from forty to sixty in a minute. Oftener, perhaps, than otherwise, both legs are
similarly affected. When the animal is lying down, the legs are convulsed in the way that I
have described, and when he stands there is a pulsating depressing or sinking of the head and
neck. In some cases, the muscles of the neck are the principal seat of the disease, or some
muscle of the face; the temporal muscle beating like an artery; the masseter opening and closing
the mouth, the muscles of the eyelid, and, in a few cases, those of the eye itself being affected.
These convulsive movements generally, yet not uniformly, cease during sleep, but that sleep
is often very much disturbed. If the case is neglected, and the dog is in a debilitated state,
this spasmodic action steals over the whole frame, and he lies extended with every limb in
constant and spasmodic action.

In the majority of cases, such an expenditure of nervous and muscular power slowly destroys
the strength of the animal, and he dies a mere skeleton; or the disease assumes the character
of epilepsy, or it quiets down into true palsy.

In the most favourable cases, no curative means having been used, the dog regains his flesh
and general strength; but the chorea continues, the spasmodic action, however, being much lessened.
At other times, it seems to have disappeared; but it is ready to return when the animal is
excited or attacked by other disease. In a variety of instances, there is the irritable temper
which accompanies chorea in the human being, and most certainly when the disease has been extensive
and confirmed.

Chorea, neglected or improperly treated, or too frequently pursuing its natural course, degenerates
into paralysis agitans. There is a tremulous or violent motion of almost every limb. The spasms
are not relaxed, but are even increased during sleep, and when the animal awakes, he rises
with agitation and alarm. There is not a limb under the perfect control of the will; there
is not a moment's respite; the constitution soon sinks, and the animal dies. No person should
be induced to undertake the cure of such a case: the owner should be persuaded to permit a
speedy termination to a life which no skill can render comfortable.

Chorea is oftenest observed in young dogs, and especially after distemper; and it seems to
depend on a certain degree of primary or sympathetic inflammatory affection of the brain.

Chorea is often very plainly a consequence of debility: either the distribution of nervous
power is irregular, or the muscles have lost their power of being readily acted upon, or have
acquired a state of morbid irritability. The latter is the most frequent state. Their action
is irregular and spasmodic, and it resembles the struggles of expiring nature far more than
the great and uniform action of health. It is not the chorea that used to be described, in
which there was an irresistible impulse to excessive action, and which was best combated by
complete muscular exhaustion; but the foundation of this disease is palpable debility.

[Rickets, bad feeding, cold and damp housing, worms in the alimentary canal, mange, and other
chronic affections, are all forerunners of this malady.--L.]

In the treatment of chorea there must be no bleeding, no excessive purgation, but aperients
or alteratives, merely sufficient to keep the faeces in a pultaceous state, so as to carry
off any source of irritation to the intestinal canal, and particularly some species of worms,
too frequent sources of irritation there. To these should be added nutritious food, gentle
exercise, tonic medicines, and general comforts. Counter-irritants may be applied--such as
blisters over the head, and setons, extending from poll to poll--the application of turpentine,
or the tincture of cantharides; but all of these will frequently be of no effect, and occasionally
a rapid and fearful increase of irritability will ensue: antispasmodics are in this case of
no use, and narcotics are altogether powerless. As for tonics, iron and gentian have been serviceable
to a certain extent, but they have never cured the complaint. The nitrate of silver will be
the sheet-anchor of the practitioner, and if early used will seldom deceive him. It should
be combined with ginger, and given morning and night, in doses varying from one-sixth to one-third
of a grain, according to the size of the dog.

The condition and strength of the dog, and the season of the year, will be our best guides.
If the patient has not lost much flesh, and is not losing it at the time that we have to do
with him, and has few symptoms of general debility, and spring or summer are approaching we
may with tolerable confidence predict a cure; but, if he has been rapidly losing ground, and
is doing so still, and staggers about and falls, there is no medicine that will restore him.

5th October, 1840.--A pointer, eighteen months old, had had the distemper, but not severely,
and was apparently recovering when he suddenly lost all voluntary power over his limbs. He
was unable to get up, and his legs were in constant, rapid, and violent motion. This continued
three days, during which he had refused all food, when, the dog being in the country, my advice
was asked. I ordered a strong emetic to be given to him, and after that a dose of Epsom salts,
the insertion of a seton, and, in addition to this, our usual tonic was to be given twice every
day. His food to consist chiefly of good strong soup, which was to be forced upon him in a
sufficient quantity.

In two days he was able to get up and stagger about, although frequently falling. His appetite
returned. He continued to improve, and most rapidly gained strength and especially flesh. A
very peculiar, high-lifting, clambering, and uncertain motion of the legs remained, with an
apparent defect of sight, for he ran against almost everything.

In six weeks the seton was removed, and the dog remained in the same state until the 7th of
December. The uncertain clambering motion was now increasing, and likewise the defect of sight.
He ran against almost every person and every thing. The cornea was transparent, the iris contracted,
there was no opacity of the lens, or pink tint of the retina, but a peculiar glassy appearance,
as unconscious of everything around it. An emetic was given, and, after that, an ounce of sulphate
of magnesia.

8th. He was dreadfully ill after taking the salts; perhaps they were not genuine. For two days
he panted sadly, refused his food, and vomited that which was forced upon him. His muzzle was
hot; he could scarcely stand; he lost flesh very rapidly. An emetic was given immediately,
and a distemper-ball daily.

16th. He soon began rapidly to recover, until he was in nearly the same state as before, except
that the sight was apparently more deficient. The sulphate of magnesia was given every fourth
day, and another seton inserted.

21st. He continued the medicine, and evidently improved, the sight returning, and the spasms
being considerably less. The distemper-ball was continued.

4th January, 1841.--The spasms were better; but the vision did not improve. In the afternoon
he fell into a momentary fit. He almost immediately rose again, and proceeded as if nothing
had happened.  An ounce of Epson salts was given, and then the tonic balls as before.

22d. The spasms were lessened, the clambering gait nearly ceased, but the vision was not improved.
The seton was removed, and only an additional dose of salts given.

27th. The spasms suddenly and very considerably increased. The left side appeared now to be
particularly affected. The left leg before and behind were most spasmed, the right scarcely
at all so. The vision of the left eye was quite gone. The dog had been taken to Mr. Alexander's,
the oculist, who attributed the affection of the eye and the general spasmodic disease to some
pressure on the brain, and recommended the trial of copious and repeated bleeding.

28th. The dog was dull; the spasms appeared to have somewhat increased and decidedly to affect
the left side. Fever-balls were ordered to be given.

29th. Considerable change took place. At three o'clock this morning I was disturbed by a noise
in the hospital. The poor fellow was in a violent fit. Water was dashed in his face, and a
strong emetic given; but it was not until seven o'clock that the fit had ceased; he lay until
eleven o'clock, when the involuntary spasms were almost suspended. When he was placed on his
feet, he immediately fell; he then gradually revived and staggered about. His master brought
a physician to see him, who adopted Mr. Alexander's idea and urged bleeding. Ten ounces of
blood were immediately taken; the dog refused to eat.

1st February.--The strength of the animal was not impaired, but the spasms were more violent,
and he lay or wandered about stupid and almost unconscious. I subtracted eight ounces more
of blood.

2d. The spasms were fully as violent, and no amendment in the vision. Eight ounces more of
blood were subtracted without benefit. A fever-ball was ordered to be given.

3d. No amendment; but the bleeding having been carried to its full extent, I again resorted
to the tonic balls, which were given morning and night. The dog was well fed and the seton
replaced.

5th. A very considerable amendment is evident.

9th. The spasms rapidly subsided and almost disappeared. Vision was not perfectly restored;
but the dog evidently saw with his left eye. He was taken away, and tonic balls sent with him
and ordered to be continued.

6th March.--The dog had improved in strength and no spasmodic affection remained; he likewise
evidently saw with his left eye. The tonic-balls had been discontinued for a week, and his
master hoped that all would turn out well, when suddenly, while at home, he was seized with
a fit that lasted ten minutes. A strong emetic was given, which brought up a vast quantity
of undigested food. A strong purging-ball was given to him in the evening.

13th. The dog had lain slightly spasmed for two or three days, when they all at once ceased,
and the animal appeared as well as before. Suddenly he was taken with another fit, and again
a vast quantity of food was vomited. These spasms remained two days, but on the 21st the fit
returned with the same discharge of food. Courses of purgatives were then determined on. A
strong dose of sulphate of magnesia was given every third day. After four doses had been given,
it was impossible to force any more upon him. The syrup of buckthorn was tried, but the fourth
dose of that it was impossible to give. The dog was then sent into the country; no fit occurred,
but there were occasional spasms.

23d September.--He was brought back to town, and I saw him. During the last month he had had
many fits. His owner at length consented that the actual cautery should be applied to his head.
The searing-iron for doctoring was used, and applied red-hot to the centre of the head. It
was exceedingly difficult so to confine the dog as to make the application effectual, without
destroying the skin.

Under the influence of the sudden violent pain, he wandered about for more than two hours,
and then the spasms returned with greater force than usual. He refused all food.

We determined to try the cautery to its full extent. We chained him up in the morning, and
penetrated through the skin with the budding-iron. The spasms were dreadfully violent, and
he was scarcely able to walk or to stand. This gradually subsided, and then he began to run
round and round, and that increased to an extraordinary velocity: he would then lie for a while
with every limb in action. The owner then yielded to all our wishes, and he was destroyed with
prussic acid. No morbid appearance presented itself in the brain; but, on the inner plate of
the right parietal bone, near the sagittal suture, were two projections, one-sixth of an inch
in length, and armed with numerous minute spicula. There was no peculiar inflammation or vascularity
of any other part of the brain.

[We once cured a case quite accidentally, by throwing a pup into a cold stream of water, and
making him swim ashore; we do not recommend the plan, although we should be willing to try
it again with one of our own dogs. The animal should be forced to swim till nearly exhausted,
and wrapped up in blankets on coming out of the water. The intense alarm created in the pup,
together with the violent struggle and coldness of the water, all act as revulsives to the
disease, which, if purely nervous, may be overcome by these powerful agents.

If the dog be weak, and the stomach deranged, the following tonic balls will answer a good purpose:

[Symbol: Rx]: Carbonate of Iron.

Ground Ginger, aa, grs. X, made into two pills, one given morning and evening, or more frequently
according to the age or size of the animal.--L.]

RHEUMATISM AND PALSY.

I do not know any animal so subject to 'rheumatism' as the dog, nor any one in which, if it
is early and properly treated, it is so manageable.

[We agree with our author, that the canine family are exceedingly liable to inflammation of
the fibrous and muscular structures of the body, and there is no disease from which they suffer
more, both in their youth and old age, than rheumatism. No particular species of dogs are more
subject to its attacks than others, all being alike victims to its ravages. Mr. Blaine remarks,
that the bowels always sympathize with other parts of the body suffering under this disease,
and that inflammation will always be found existing in the abdominal viscera, if rheumatism
be present, and the lower bowels will be attended with a painful torpor, which he designates
as rheumatic colic. We ourselves noticed, that old setters particularly, when suffering from
this disease, are frequently attacked with an acute diarrhoea, or suffer from obstinate constipation
attended by griping pains, but did not know that this state of things was so uniform an accompaniment
to the other affection. There are two varieties of rheumatism, the 'acute' and 'chronic', both
of which are attended with either general fever or local inflammation. The attacks usually
come on rather suddenly, the joints swell, the pulse becomes full and tense, the parts tender,
and the eyes blood-shot, the stomach deranged, and the bowels costive. Severe lancinating pain
runs through the articulation, and along the course of the larger muscles, the tongue is coated,
the muzzle hot and dry, and the poor animal howls with agony. The breathing becomes laboured,
all food is rejected, and if you attempt to move the sufferer he sends forth piteous cries
of distress. 'The causes' of this serious affection are very numerous; among the most usual
and active agents may be enumerated, exposure to atmospherical vicissitudes, remaining wet
and idle after coming from the water, damp kennels, suppressed perspiration, metastasis of
eruptive diseases, luxurious living, laziness and over-feeding. These and many other causes
are all busy in the production of this disease. Duck dogs on the Chesapeake, we have noticed
as often suffering from this affection, owing no doubt to the great exposure they are obliged
to endure; but few of them arrive at old age without being martyrs to the chronic form. 'Chronic
rheumatism', generally the result of the other form of disease, is most usually met with in
old dogs: it is attended with little fever, although the local inflammation and swelling is
sometimes considerable. The pain is often stationary in one shoulder or loin, at other times
shifts about suddenly to other portions of the body. The muscles are tender and the joints
stiff, the animal seems lame till he becomes healed, and limber when all appearance of the
disease vanishes. In old cases the limbs become so much enlarged, and the joints so swollen,
that the dog is rendered perfectly useless, and consequently increases his sufferings by idleness.
'This form of the disease is known as gout.'

Treatment of 'acute rheumatism'--bleeding largely is very important in this affection, and
if followed up with two or three purges of aloes, gamboge, colocynth and calomel will arrest
the progress of this disease.

Rx.   Extract of Colocynth 3           [Symbol: scruple] i.
      Calomel                           grs. x.
      Powdered Gamboge                  grs. ii.
      Socet. Aloes                      grs. x.

Made into four pills, two to be given at night, and the other the following morning. If these
medicines should not be handy, give a large purging ball of aloes, to be followed by a full
dose of salts. When the inflammatory action is not sufficiently high to demand depletion, warm
bathing, friction and keeping the dog wrapped up in blankets before a fire will generally afford
relief. If the pain appear very severe, it will be necessary to repeat the baths at short intervals:
great attention must be paid to the state of the bowels: if a diarrhoea supervenes, it must
not he checked too suddenly, by the use of astringent medicines, but rather corrected by small
doses of oil and magnesia. If constipation attended with colic be the character of the affection,
small quantities of oil and turpentine in connexion with warm enemata will be the proper remedies.
If paralysis should occur, it will be found very difficult to overcome, but must be treated,
after the reduction of inflammation, upon principles laid down under the head of this latter
affection. Blisters to the spine, setons, electricity, acupuncturation, &c.

'Treatment of chronic rheumatism'--warm baths are useful, and warm housing absolutely necessary,
attention to diet, and an occasional purge of blue mass and aloes, together with electricity,
acupuncture, rubefacient applications to the spine, &c.--L.]

A warm bath--perchance a bleeding--a dose or two of the castor-oil mixture, and an embrocation
composed of spirit of turpentine, hartshorn, camphorated spirit, and laudanum, will usually
remove it in two or three days, unless it is complicated with muscular sprains, or other lesions,
such as the 'chest-founder' of kennels.

This chest-founder is a singular complaint, and often a pest in kennels that are built in low
situations, and where bad management prevails. Where the huntsman or whippers-in are too often
in a hurry to get home, and turn their dogs into the kennel panting and hot; where the beds
are not far enough from the floor, or the building, if it should be in a sufficiently elevated
situation, has yet a northern aspect and is unsheltered from the blast, chest-founder prevails;
and I have known half the pack affected by it after a severe run, the scent breast-high, and
the morning unusually cold. It even occasionally passes on into palsy.

The veterinary surgeon will be sometimes consulted respecting this provoking muscular affection.
His advice will comprise--dryness, attention to the bowels, attention to the exercise-ground,
and perhaps, occasionally, setons--not where the huntsman generally places them, on the withers
above, but on the brisket below, and defended from the teeth of the dog by a roller of a very
simple construction, passing round the chest between the fore legs and over the front of the
shoulders on either side.

The pointer, somewhat too heavy before, and hardly worked, becomes what is called chest-foundered.
From his very make it is evident that, in long-continued and considerable exertion, the subscapular
muscles will be liable to sprain and inflammation. There will be inflammation of the fasciae,
induration, loss of power, loss of nervous influence and palsy. Cattle, driven far and fast
to the market, suffer from the same causes.

[By palsy, we mean a partial or complete loss of the powers of motion or sensation in some
portion of the muscular system: this affection is very common to the canine race, and very
few of them reach an advanced age without having at some time in their life experienced an
attack of this malady.

The loins and hind legs suffer oftener than other parts, in fact we do not recollect ever meeting
with paralysis of the fore limbs alone. Although the limbs become perfectly powerless, and
are only dragged after the animal by the combined efforts of the fore legs and back, it is
seldom that they lose their sensibility.--L.]

Palsy is frequent, as in the dog. However easy it may be to subdue a rheumatic affection, in
its early stage, by prompt attention, yet if it is neglected, it very soon simulates, or becomes
essentially connected with, or converted into, palsy.

No animal presents a more striking illustration of the connexion between intestinal irritation
and palsy than the dog. He rarely or never has enteritis, even in its mildest form, without
some loss of power over the hinder extremities. This may at first arise from the participation
of the lumbar muscles with the intestinal irritation; but, if the disease of the bowels continues
long, it will be evident enough that it is not pain alone that produces the constrained and
incomplete action of the muscles of the hind extremities, but that there is an actual loss
of nervous power. A dog is often brought to the veterinary surgeon, with no apparent disease
about him except a staggering walk from weakness of the hind limbs. He eats well and is cheerful,
and his muzzle is moist and cool; but his belly is tucked up, and there are two longitudinal
cords, running parallel to each other, which will scarcely yield to pressure. The surgeon orders
the castor-oil mixture twice or thrice daily, until the bowels are well acted upon, and, as
soon as that is accomplished, the dog is as strong and as well as ever. Perhaps his hind limbs
are dragged behind him; a warm bath is ordered, he is dosed well with the castor-oil mixture,
and, if it is a recent case, the animal is well in a few days. In more confirmed palsy, the
charge, or plaster on the loins, is added to the action of the aperient on the bowels. The
process may be somewhat slow, but it is seldom that the dog does not ultimately and perfectly
recover.

It is easy to explain this connexion, although we should have scarcely supposed that it would
have been so intimate, had not frequent experience forced it on our observation. The rectum
passes through the pelvis. Whatever may be said of that intestine, considering its vertical
position in the human being, it is always charged with faeces in the quadruped. It therefore
shares more in the effect, whatever that may be, which is produced by the retention of faeces
in the intestinal canal, and it shares also in the inflammatory affection of other parts of
the canal. Almost in contact with this viscus, or at least passing through the pelvis, are
the crural nerves from the lumbar vertebrae, the obtusator running round the rim of the pelvis,
the glutal nerve occupying its back, and the sciatic hastening to escape from it. It is not
difficult to imagine that these, to a certain degree, will sympathize with the healthy and
also the morbid state of the rectum; and that, when it is inert, or asleep, or diseased, they
also may be powerless too. Here is something like fact to establish a very important theory,
and which should be deeply considered by the sportsman and the surgeon.

[Loss of the contractile power of the sphincters of the bladder and rectum, sometimes attends
this disease, and involuntary evacuations are constantly taking place, or costiveness and retention
are the consequences.--L.]

Mr. Dupuy has given a valuable account of the knowledge we possess of the diseases of the spinal
marrow in our domestic quadrupeds.

He has proved:

1. That in our domestic animals the spinal marrow is scarcely ever affected through the whole
of its course.

2. That the dorsal and lumbar regions are the parts oftenest affected.

3. That inflammation of the spinal marrow of these regions always produces palsy, more or less
complete, of the abdominal members.

4. That, in some cases, this inflammation is limited to the inferior or superior parts of the
spinal marrow, and that there is loss only of feeling or of motion.

5. That sometimes animals die of palsy without any organic lesion.

[Blows on the head, producing effusion on the brain, poisoning by lead, inflammation of the
spinal marrow, affections of the nerves, caries of the spine, costiveness and affections of
the bowels, are all productive of palsy. If the disease proceeds from rheumatism, or other
inflammatory affections, independent of any organic lesion, the disease, if taken early, is
not difficult to overcome in the young subject. Warm baths, bleeding, purging, and stimulating
applications to the parts and along the spine, will answer. Castor oil and turpentine is a
good purge: where the malady depends upon costiveness, purges of aloes should be administered
in connexion with warm enemata, stimulating frictions along the spine, and hot baths. Croton
oil dropped on the tongue will also be of great benefit: if there should be effusion or compression
from fracture of the bones of the cranium, nothing but trephining will be of any service, as
we can hardly hope for the absorption of the matter, and the removal of the spicula of bone
can alone afford relief to the patient. Paralysis arising from poisoning should be treated
as described under the head of mineral poisons. Chronic cases of paralysis arising from want
of tone of the nerves and spinal marrow, repeated blistering, introduction of the seton along
the spine, electricity, &c., have all been tried with some success.

Strychnia, from its peculiar effects upon the animal economy, and its almost exclusive direction
to the nerves of motion, makes it a medicine particularly applicable to the treatment of this
disease. It may be given in all stages of the malady, but is most serviceable after the reduction
of inflammatory action, and when we are convinced that the disease depends upon want of tone
in the motor muscles.

Great care should be had in its administration, as it is a powerful poison in too large doses,
to a large dog; commence with a quarter of a grain in pill, three times daily, and gradually
increase to a half grain or more if the animal seems to bear it well. But it should be discontinued
immediately on the appearance of any constitutional symptoms, such as spasmodic twitchings
of the eyelids or muzzle.--L.]

PALSY--MANGE

11th February, 1835.--A Persian bitch, at the Zoological Gardens, who was well yesterday, now
staggers as she walks, and has nearly lost the use of her hind legs. Gave a good dose of the
castor-oil mixture.

18th. She is materially worse and drags her hind legs after her. I would fain put on a charge,
but the keeper does not like that her beautiful coat should be spoiled, and wishes to try what
gentle exercise will do. She certainly, after she has been coaxed a great deal, will get on
her legs and stagger on fifty yards or more. Gave the castor-oil mixture daily.

19th. She is a little stronger, and walks a little better. Continue the mixture. Embrocate
well with the rheumatic mixture--sp. tereb., sp. camph., liq. ammon., et tinct. opii--and give
gentle exercise.

2d March.--She does improve, although slowly; the charge is therefore postponed. Continue treatment.

30th. She is considerably better. Continue the mixture, and use the embrocation every second day.

10th April--She has mange in the bend of her arm, and on her chest. Use the sulphur ointment
and alterative balls, and omit the embrocation and mixture. In less than a week she nearly
recovered from her lameness, and ran about almost as well as ever.

30th. She runs about very fairly, but the mange has assumed that character of scurvy which
I do not know how to grapple with. Continue the alterative balls, and the ointment.

18th May.--The mange has disappeared, but the palsy is returning; she staggers slightly, and
droops behind. Give the castor-oil mixture and use the embrocation.

14th June.--Mange quite gone, but palsy continues to a very considerable degree. I want to
use the plaster; but the keeper pleads for a little delay. Continue the treatment.

1st July.--I have at length determined to have recourse to the charge. A piece of thick sheep's
leather was fitted lo her loins and haunches. 18th. She appears to be improving, but it is
very slowly.

31st. Very little change. The plaster keeps on well: she has no power over her hind limbs;
but she eats and drinks as well as ever.

23d August.--No change. Give her half a grain of strychnia, morning and night.

26th That singular secretion of milk, to which the bitch is subject nine weeks after oestrum,
is now appearing. Her mammae are enlarged, and I can squeeze a considerable quantity of milk
out of the teats. Give an aloetic pill, and continue the strychnia.

31st. The secretion of milk continues. There is slight enlargement and some heat of the mammae;
but she feeds as well as ever. Increase the dose of strychnia to three-quarters of a grain.

On the following day she was found dead. In making the usual longitudinal incision through
the integuments of the abdomen a considerable quantity of milky fluid, mingled with blood,
followed the knife. There was very slight enlargement of the teats, but intense inflammation
of the whole of the mammary substance. The omentum, and particularly the portion opposite to
the external disease, was also inflamed. Besides this there was not a vestige of disease.

This is an interesting case and deserves record. I fear that justice was not done to the animal
at the commencement of the paralytic affection. In nineteen cases out of twenty in the dog,
the constant but mild stimulus of a charge over the lumbar and sacral regions removes the deeper-seated
inflammation of the spinal cord or its membranes, when the palsy is confined to the hind extremities,
and has not been sufficiently long established to produce serious change of structure. The
charge should have been applied at first. The almost total disappearance of the palsy during
the cutaneous disease, which was attended with more than usual inflammation of the integument,
is an instructive illustration of the power of counter-irritation, and of what might possibly
have been effected in the first case; for much time was lost before the application of the
charge, and when at length it was applied, it and the strychnia were powerless.

I consider the following case as exceedingly valuable, at least with reference to the power
of strychnia in removing palsy:--

19th August, 1836.--A fine Alpine dog was suddenly attacked with a strange nervous affection.
He was continually staggering about and falling. His head was forcibly bent backward and a
little on one side, almost to his shoulder. A pound of blood was abstracted, a seton inserted
from ear to ear, and eight grains of calomel administered.

21st. He has perfectly lost the use of every limb. He has also amaurosis. perfect blindness,
which had not appeared the day before. He hears perfectly, and he eats, and with appetite,
when the food is put into his mouth. Gave him two large spoonfuls of the castor-oil mixture
daily; this consists of three parts of castor-oil, two of syrup of buck-thorn, and one of syrup
of white poppies.

23d. A little better; can lift his head and throw it upon his side, and will still eat when
fed. Continue the mixture, and give half a grain of strychnia daily.

24th. Little change.

27th. No change, except that he is rapidly losing flesh. Continue the treatment.

31th. The strychnia increased to three-fourths of a grain morning and night. The castor-oil
mixture continued in its full quantity.  He was fed well, but there was a sunken, vacant expression
of countenance.

2d September.--He can move his head a little, and has some slight motion in his limbs.

4th. He can almost get up. He recognises me for the first time. His appetite, which was never
much impaired, has returned: this is to be attributed to strychnia, or the seton, or the daily
aperient mixture. They have all, perhaps, been serviceable, but I attribute most to the strychnia;
for I have rarely, indeed, seen any dog recover from such an attack. Continue the treatment.

6th. Fast recovering. Medicine as before.

14th. Improving, but not so fast as before. Still continue the treatment.

28th. Going on slowly, but satisfactorily. Remove the seton, but continue the other treatment.

13th October.--Quite well.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VII.

RABIES.

We are now arrived at one of the most important subjects in veterinary pathology. In other
cases the comfort and the existence of our quadruped patients are alone or chiefly involved,
but here the lives of our employers, and our own too, are at stake, and may be easily, and
too often are, compromised. Here also, however other portions of the chain may be overlooked
or denied, we have the link which most of all connects the veterinary surgeon with the practitioner
of human medicine; or, rather, here is the circumscribed but valued spot where the veterinary
surgeon has the vantage-ground.

In describing the nature, and cause and treatment of rabies, it will be most natural to take
the animal in which it oftenest appears, by which it is most frequently propagated; the time
at which the danger commences, and the usual period before the death of the patient.

Some years ago a dog, naturally ferocious, bit a child at Lisson Grove. The child, to all appearance
previously well, died on the third day, and an inquest was to be held on the body in the evening.
The Coroner ordered the dog to be sent to me for examination The animal was, contrary to his
usual habit, perfectly tractable. This will appear to be of some importance hereafter. I examined
him carefully. No suspicious circumstance could be found about him. There was no appearance
of rabies. In the mean time the inquest took place, and the corpse of the child was carefully
examined. One medical gentleman thought that there were some suspicious appearances about the
stomach, and another believed that there was congestion of the brain.

The owner of the dog begged that the animal might not be taken from him, but might accompany
him home. He took him home and destroyed him that no experiments might be made.

With great difficulty we procured the carcass, and from some inflammatory appearances about
the tongue and the stomach, and the presence of a small portion of indigestible matter in the
stomach, we were unanimously of opinion that the dog was rabid.

I do not mean to say that the child died hydrophobous, or that its death was accelerated by
the nascent disease existing in the dog. There was probably some nervous affection that hastened
the death of the infant, and the dog bit the child at the very period when the malady first
began to develop itself. On the following day there were morbid lesions enough to prove beyond
doubt that he was rabid.

This case is introduced because I used afterwards to accompany every examination of supposed
or doubtful rabies with greater caution than I probably had previously used.

It is occasionally very difficult to detect the existence of rabies in its nascent state. In
the year 1813, a child attempted to rob a dog of its morning food, and the animal resisting
the theft, the child was slightly scratched by its teeth. No one dreamed of danger. Eight days
afterwards symptoms of rabies appeared in the dog, the malady ran its course, and the animal
died. A few days afterwards the child sickened--undoubted characteristics of rabies were observed--they
ran their course and the infant was lost.

There are other cases--fortunately not numerous--in the records of human surgery, resembling
this. A person has been bitten by a dog, he has paid little or no attention to it, and no application
of the caustic has been made. Some weeks, or even months, have passed, he has nearly or quite
forgotten the affair, when he becomes languid and feverish, and full of fearful apprehensions,
and this appearing perhaps during several days, or more than a week. The empoisonment has then
ceased to be a local affair, the virus has entered into the circulation, and its impression
is made on the constitution generally. Fortunately the disposition to bite rarely develops
itself until the full establishment of the disease, otherwise we might sometimes inquire whether
it were not our duty to exterminate the whole race of dogs.

The following case deserves to be recorded. On the 21st of October, 1813, a dog was brought
to me for examination. He had vomited a considerable quantity of coagulated blood. I happened
to be particularly busy at the moment, and not observing anything peculiar in his countenance
or manner, I ordered some astringent sedative medicine, and said that I would see him again
in the afternoon.

In the course of the afternoon he was again brought. The vomiting had quite ceased. His mouth
seemed to be swollen, and, on examining him, I found that some of his incisor teeth, both in
the upper and lower jaw, had been torn out. This somewhat alarmed me; and, on inquiring of
the servant, I was told that he suspected that they had had thieves about the house on the
preceding night, for the dog had torn away the side of his kennel in attempting to get at them.
I scolded him for not having told me of this in the morning; and then, talking of various things,
in order to prolong the time and to be able closely to watch my patient, I saw, or thought
I saw, but in a very slight degree, that the animal was tracing the fancied path of some imaginary
object. I was then truly alarmed, and more especially since I had discovered that in the giving
of the physic in the morning the man's hand had been scratched; a youth had suffered the dog
to lick his sore finger, and the animal had also been observed to lick the sore ear of an infant.
He was a remarkably affectionate dog, and was accustomed to this abominable and inexcusable
nonsense.

I insisted on detaining the dog, and gave the man a letter to the surgeon, telling him all
my fears. He promptly acted on the hint, and before evening, the proper means were taken with
regard to all three.

I watched this dog day after day. He would not eat, but he drank a great deal more water than
I liked. The surgeon was evidently beginning to doubt whether I was not wrong, but he could
not dispute the occasional wandering of the eye, and the frequent spume upon the water. On
the 26th of October, however, the sixth day after his arrival, we both of us heard the rabid
howl burst from him: he did not, however, die until the 30th. I mention this as another instance
of the great difficulty there is to determine the real nature of the case in an early stage
of the disease.

M. Perquin relates an interesting case. A lady had a greyhound, nine years old, that was accustomed
to lie upon her bed at night, and cover himself with the bed-clothes. She remarked, one morning,
that he had torn the covering of his bed, and, although he ate but little, drank oftener, and
in larger quantity, than he was accustomed to do. She led him to a veterinary surgeon, who
assured her that there was nothing serious the matter. On the following day, he bit her fore-finger
near the nail, as she was giving him something to eat. She led him again to the veterinary
surgeon, who assured her that she needed not to be under the least alarm, and as for the little
wound on her finger, it was of no consequence. On the following day, the 27th of December,
the dog died. He had not ceased to drink most abundantly to the very last.

On the 4th of February, as the lady was dining with her husband, she found some difficulty
in deglutition. She wished to take some wine, but was unable to swallow it.

On the 5th, she consulted a surgeon. He wished her to swallow a little soup in his presence.
She attempted to do it, but could not accomplish her object after many an effort. She then
fell into a state of violent agitation, with constriction of the pharynx, and the discharge
of a viscid fluid from the mouth.

On the 7th, she died, four days after the first attack of the disease, and in a state of excessive
loss of flesh.

There can be no doubt that both the dog and his mistress died rabid, the former having communicated
the disease to the latter; but there is no satisfactory account of the manner in which the
dog became diseased. [1]

Joseph Delmaire, of Looberghe, twenty-nine years old, was, on the 6th of October, 1836, bitten
in the hand by a dog that he met with in the forest, and that was evidently rabid. On the following
morning, he went to a medical man of some repute in the country, who washed the wound, and
scarified it, and terminated the operation by tracing a bloody cross on the forehead of the
patient.

He returned home, but he was far from being satisfied. The image of the dog that had attacked
him was always before him, and his sleep was troubled with the most frightful dreams. So passed
four-and-twenty days, when Delmaire, rising from his bed, felt the most dreadful trepidation;
he panted violently; it seemed as if an enormous weight oppressed his chest, and from time
to time there was profound sighing and sobbing. He complained every moment that he was smothered.
He attempted to drink, but it was with great difficulty that a few drops of barley-water were
swallowed. His mouth was dry, his throat burning, his thirst excessive, and all that he attempted
to swallow was rejected with horror.

At nine o'clock at night he was largely bled. His respiration was more free, but the dread
of every fluid remained. After an hour's repose, he started and felt the most fearful pain
in every limb--his whole body was agitated with violent convulsions. The former place of bleeding
was reopened, and a great quantity of blood escaped. The pulse became small and accelerated.
The countenance was dreadful--the eyes were starting from their sockets--he continually sprung
from his seat and uttered the most fearful howling. A quantity of foam filled his mouth, and
compelled a continued expectoration. In his violent fits, the strength of six men was not sufficient
to keep him on his bed. In the midst of a sudden recess of fury he would disengage himself
from all that were attempting to hold him, and dash himself on the floor; there, freed from
all control, he rolled about, beat himself, and tore everything that he could reach. In the
short intervals that separated these crises, he regained possession of his reasoning powers:
he begged his old father to pardon him, he talked to him and to those around with the most
intense affection, and it was only when he felt that a new attack was at hand, that he prayed
them to leave him. At length his mental excitation began to subside; his strength was worn
out, and he suffered himself to be placed on his bed. The horrible convulsions from time to
time returned, but the dread of liquors had ceased. He demanded something to drink. They gave
him a little white wine, but he was unable to swallow it; it was returned through his nostrils.
The poor fellow then endeavoured to sleep; but it was soon perceived that he had ceased to live.

The early symptoms of rabies in the dog are occasionally very obscure. In the greater number
of cases, these are sullenness, fidgetiness, and continual shifting of posture. Where I have
had opportunity, I have generally found these circumstances in regular succession. For several
consecutive hours perhaps he retreats to his basket or his bed. He shows no disposition to
bite, and he answers the call upon him laggardly. He is curled up and his face is buried between
his paws and his breast. At length he begins to be fidgety. He searches out new resting-places;
but he very soon changes them for others. He takes again to his own bed; but he is continually
shifting his posture. He begins to gaze strangely about him as he lies on his bed. His countenance
is clouded and suspicious. He comes to one and another of the family and he fixes on them a
steadfast gaze as if he would read their very thoughts. "I feel strangely ill," he seems to
say: "have you anything to do with it? or you? or you?" Has not a dog mind enough for this?
If we have observed a rabid dog at the commencement of the disease, we have seen this to the
very life.

There is a species of dog--the small French poodle--the essence of whose character and constitution
is fidgetiness or perpetual motion.

If this dog has been bitten, and rabies is about to establish itself, he is the most irritative
restless being that can be conceived of; starting convulsively at the slightest sound; disposing
of his bed in every direction, seeking out one retreat after another in order to rest his wearied
frame, but quiet only for a moment in any one, and the motion of his limbs frequently stimulating
chorea and even epilepsy.

A peculiar delirium is an early symptom, and one that will never deceive. A young man had been
bitten by one of his dogs; I was requested to meet a medical gentleman on the subject: I was
a little behind my time; as I entered the room I found the dog eagerly devouring a pan of sopped
bread. "There is no madness here," said the gentleman. He had scarcely spoken, when in a moment
the dog quitted the sop, and, with a furious bark sprung against the wall as if he would seize
some imaginary object that he fancied was there. "Did you see that?" was my reply. "What do
you think of it?" "I see nothing in it," was his retort: "the dog heard some noise on the other
side of the wall." At my serious urging, however, he consented to excise the part. I procured
a poor worthless cur, and got him bitten by this dog, and carried the disease from this dog
to the third victim: they all became rabid one after the other, and there my experiment ended.
The serious matter under consideration, perhaps, justified me in going so far as I did.

This kind of delirium is of frequent occurrence in the human patient. The account given by
Dr. Bardsley of one of his patients is very appropriate to on profit purpose:

  "I observed that he frequently fixed his eyes with horror and affright
  on some ideal object, and then, with a sudden and violent emotion,
  buried his head beneath the bed-clothes. The next time I saw him
  repeat this action, I was induced to inquire into the cause of his
  terror. He asked whether I had not heard howlings and scratchings. On
  being answered in the negative, he suddenly threw himself on his
  knees, extending his arms in a defensive posture, and forcibly threw
  back his head and body. The muscles of the face were agitated by
  various spasmodic contractions; his eye-balls glazed, and seemed ready
  to start from their sockets; and, at the moment, when crying out in an
  agonizing tone, 'Do you not see that black dog?' his countenance and
  attitude exhibited the most dreadful picture of complicated horror,
  distress, and rage that words can describe or imagination paint."

I have again and again seen the rabid dog start up after a momentary quietude, with unmingled
ferocity depicted on his countenance, and plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain.
At other times he would stop and watch the nails in the partition of the stable in which he
was confined, and fancying them to move he would dart at them, and occasionally sadly bruise
and injure himself from being no longer able to measure the distance of the object. In one
of his sudden fits of violence a rabid dog strangled the Cardinal Crescence, the Legate of
the Pope, at the Council of Trent in 1532.

M. Magendie has often injected into the veins of an hydrophobous dog as much as five grains
of opium without producing any effect; while a single grain given to the healthy dog would
suffice to send him almost to sleep.

One of Mr. Babington's patients thought that there was a cloud of flies about him. "Why do
you not kill those flies!" he would cry; and then he would strike at them with his hand, and
shrink under the bed-clothes, in the most dreadful fear.

There is also in the human being a peculiarity in this delirium which seems to distinguish
it from every other kind of mental aberration.

  "The patient," in Mr. Lawrence's language, "is pursued by a thousand
  phantoms that intrude themselves upon his mind; he holds conversation
  with imaginary persons; he fancies himself surrounded with
  difficulties, and in the greatest distress. These thoughts seem to
  pass through his mind with wonderful rapidity, and to keep him in a
  state of the greatest distress, unless he is quickly spoken to or
  addressed by his name, and, then, in a moment the charm is broken;
  every phantom of imagination disappears, and at once he begins to talk
  as calmly and as connectedly as in perfect health."

So it is with the dog, whether he is watching the motes that are floating in the air, or the
insects that are annoying him on the walls, or the foes that he fancies are threatening him
on every side--one word recalls him in a moment. Dispersed by the magic influence of his master's
voice, every object of terror disappears, and he crawls towards him with the same peculiar
expression of attachment that used to characterize him.

Then comes a moment's pause--a moment of actual vacuity--the eye slowly closes, the head droops,
and he seems as if his fore feet were giving way, and he would fall: but he springs up again,
every object of terror once more surrounds him--he gazes wildly around--he snaps--he barks,
and he rushes to the extent of his chain, prepared to meet his imaginary foe.

The expression of the countenance of the dog undergoes a considerable change, principally dependent
on the previous disposition of the animal. If he was naturally of an affectionate disposition,
there will be an anxious, inquiring countenance, eloquent, beyond the power of resisting its
influence. It is made up of strange suppositions as to the nature of the depression of mind
under which he labours, mingled with some passing doubts, and they are but passing, as to the
concern which the master has in the affair; but, most of all, there is an affectionate and
confiding appeal for relief. At the same time we observe some strange fancy, evidently passing
through his mind, unalloyed, however, by the slightest portion of ferocity.

In the countenance of the naturally savage brute, or him that has been trained to be savage,
there is indeed a fearful change; sometimes the conjunctiva is highly injected; at other times
it is scarcely affected, hut the eyes have an unusually bright and dazzling appearance. They
are like two balls of fire, and there is a peculiar transparency of the hyaloid membrane, or
injection of that of the retina.

A very early symptom of rabies in the dog, is an extreme degree of restlessness. Frequently,
he is almost invariably wandering about, shifting from corner to corner, or continually rising
up and lying down, changing his posture in every possible way, disposing of his bed with his
paws, shaking it with his mouth, bringing it to a heap, on which he carefully lays his chest,
or rather the pit of his stomach, and then rising up and bundling every portion of it out of
the kennel. If he is put into a closed basket, he will not be still for an instant, but turn
round and round without ceasing. If he is at liberty, he will seem to imagine that something
is lost, and he will eagerly search round the room, and particularly every corner of it, with
strange violence and indecision.

In a very great portion of cases of hydrophobia in the human being, there is, as a precursory
symptom, uneasiness, pain, or itching of the bitten part. A red line may also be traced up
the limb, in the direction of the lymphatics. In a few cases the wound opens afresh.

The poison is now beginning fatally to act on the tissue, on which it had previously lain harmless.
When the conversation has turned on this subject, long after the bitten part has been excised,
pain has darted along the limb. I have been bitten much oftener than I liked, by dogs decidedly
rabid, but, proper means being taken, I have escaped; and yet often, when I have been over-fatigued,
or a little out of temper, some of the old sores have itched and throbbed, and actually become
red and swollen.

The dog appears to suffer a great deal of pain in the ear in common canker. He will be almost
incessantly scratching it, crying piteously while thus employed. The ear is, oftener than any
other part, bitten by the rabid dog, and, when a wound in the ear, inflicted by a rabid dog,
begins to become painful, the agony appears to be of the intensest kind. The dog rubs his ear
against every projecting body, he scratches it might and main, and tumbles over and over while
he is thus employed.

The young practitioner should be on his guard there. Is this dreadful itching a thing of yesterday,
or, has the dog been subject to canker, increasing for a considerable period. Canker both internal
and external is a disease of slow growth, and must have been long neglected before it will
torment the patient in the manner that I have described. The question as to the length of time
that an animal has thus suffered will usually be a sufficient guide.

The mode in which he expresses his torture will serve as another direction. He will often scratch
violently enough when he has canker, but he will not roll over and over like a football except
he is rabid. If there is very considerable inflammation of the lining membrane of the ear,
and engorgement and ulceration of it, this is the effect of canker; but if there is only a
slight redness of the membrane, or no redness at all, and yet the dog is incessantly and violently
scratching himself, it is too likely that rabies is at hand.

In the early stage of rabies, the attachment of the dog towards his owner seems to be rapidly
increased, and the expression of that feeling. He is employed, almost without ceasing, licking
the hands, or face, or any part he can get at. Females, and men too, are occasionally apt to
permit the dog, when in health, to indulge this filthy and very dangerous habit with regard
to them. The virus, generated under the influence of rabies, is occasionally deposited on a
wounded or abraded surface, and in process of time produces a similar disease in the person
that has been so inoculated by it. Therefore it is that the surgeon so anxiously inquires of
the person that has been bitten, and of all those to whom the dog has had access, "Has he been
accustomed to lick you? have you any sore places about you that can by possibility have been
licked by him?" If there are, the person is in fully as much danger as if he had been bitten,
and it is quite as necessary to destroy the part with which the virus may have come in contact.
A lady once lost her life by suffering her dog to lick a pimple on her chin.

There is a beautiful species of dog, often the inhabitant of the gentleman's stable--the Dalmatian
or coach dog. He has, perhaps, less affection for the human species than any other dog, except
the greyhound and the bull-dog; he has less sagacity than most others, and certainly less courage.
He is attached to the stable; he is the friend of the horse; they live under the same roof;
they share the same bed; and, when the horse is summoned to his work, the dog accompanies every
step. They are certainly beautiful dogs, and it is pleasing to see the thousand expressions
of friendship between them and the horse; but, in their continual excursions through the streets,
they are exposed to some danger, and particularly to that of being bitten by rabid dogs. It
is a fearful business when this takes place. The coachman probably did not see the affray;
no suspicion has been excited. The horse rubs his muzzle to the dog, and the dog licks the
face of the horse, and in a great number of cases the disease is communicated from the one
to the other. The dog in process of time dies, the horse does not long survive, and, frequently
too, the coachman shares their fate. I have known at least twenty horses destroyed in this way.

A depraved appetite is a frequent attendant on rabies in the dog. He refuses his usual food;
he frequently turns from it with an evident expression of disgust; at other times, he seizes
it with greater or less avidity, and then drops it, sometimes from disgust, at other times
because he is unable to complete the mastication of it. This palsy of the organs of mastication,
and dropping of the food, after it has been partly chewed, is a symptom on which implicit confidence
may be placed.

Some dogs vomit once or twice in the early period of the disease: when this happens, they never
return to the natural food of the dog, but are eager for everything that is filthy and horrible.
The natural appetite generally fails entirely, and to it succeeds a strangely depraved one.
The dog usually occupies himself with gathering every little bit of thread, and it is curious
to observe with what eagerness and method he sets to work, and how completely he effects his
object. He then attacks every kind of dirt and filth, horse-dung, his own dung, and human excrement.
Some breeds of spaniels are very filthy feeders without its being connected with disease, but
the rabid dog eagerly selects the excrement of the horse, and his own. Some considerable care,
however, must be exercised here. At the period of dentition, and likewise at the commencement
of the sexual affection, the stomach of the dog, and particularly that of the bitch, sympathises
with, or shares in, the irritability of the gums, and of the constitution generally, and there
is a considerably perverted appetite. The dog also feels the same propensity that influences
the child, that of taking hard substances into the mouth, and seemingly trying to masticate
them. Their pressure on the gums facilitates the passage of the new teeth. A young dog will,
therefore, be observed gathering up hard substances, and, if he should chance to die, a not
inconsiderable collection of them is sometimes found in the stomach. They are, however, of
a peculiar character; they consist of small pieces of bone, slick, and coal.

The contents of the stomach of the rabid dog, are often, or generally, of a most filthy description.
Some hair or straw is usually found, but the greater part is composed of horse-dung, or of
his own dung, and it may be received as a certainly, that if he is found deliberately devouring
it, he is rabid.

Some very important conclusions may be drawn from the appearance and character of the urine.
The dog, and at particular times when he is more than usually salacious, may, and does diligently
search the urining places; he may even, at those periods, be seen to lick the spot which another
has just wetted; but, if a peculiar eagerness accompanies this strange employment, if, in the
parlour, which is rarely disgraced by this evacuation, every corner is perseveringly examined,
and licked with unwearied and unceasing industry, that dog cannot be too carefully watched,
there is great danger about him; he may, without any other symptom, be pronounced to be decidedly
rabid. I never knew a single mistake about this.

Much has been said of the profuse discharge of saliva from the mouth of the rabid dog. It is
an undoubted fact that, in this disease, all the glands concerned in the secretion of saliva,
become increased in bulk and vascularity. The sublingual glands wear an evident character of
inflammation; but it never equals the increased discharge that accompanies epilepsy, or nausea.
The frothy spume at the corners of the mouth, is not for a moment to be compared with that
which is evident enough in both of these affections. It is a symptom of short duration, and
seldom lasts longer than twelve hours. The stories that are told of the mad dog covered with
froth, are altogether fabulous. The dog recovering from, or attacked by a fit, may be seen
in this state; but not the rabid dog. Fits are often mistaken for rabies, and hence the delusion.

The increased secretion of saliva soon passes away. It lessens in quantity; it becomes thicker,
viscid, adhesive, and glutinous. It clings to the corners of the mouth, and probably more annoyingly
so to the membrane of the fauces. The human being is sadly distressed by it, he forces it out
with the greatest violence, or utters the falsely supposed bark of a dog, in his attempts to
force it from his mouth. This symptom occurs in the human being, when the disease is fully
established, or at a late period of it. The dog furiously attempts to detach it with his paws.

It is an early symptom in the dog, and it can scarcely be mistaken in him. When he is fighting
with his paws at the corners of his mouth, let no one suppose that a bone is sticking between
the poor fellow's teeth; nor should any useless and dangerous effort be made to relieve him.
If all this uneasiness arose from a bone in the mouth, the mouth would continue permanently
open instead of closing when the animal for a moment discontinues his efforts. If after a while
he loses his balance and tumbles over, there can be no longer any mistake. It is the saliva
becoming more and more glutinous, irritating the fauces and threatening suffocation.

To this naturally and rapidly succeeds an insatiable thirst. The dog that still has full power
over the muscles of his jaws continues lo lap. He knows not when to cease, while the poor fellow
labouring under the dumb madness, presently to be described, and whose jaw and tongue are paralysed,
plunges his muzzle into the water-dish to his very eyes, in order that he may get one drop
of water into the back part of his mouth to moisten and to cool his dry and parched fauces.
Hence, instead of this disease being always characterised by the dread of water in the dog,
it is marked by a thirst often perfectly unquenchable. Twenty years ago, this assertion would
have been peremptorily denied. Even at the present day we occasionally meet with those who
ought to know better, and who will not believe that the dog which fairly, or perhaps eagerly,
drinks, can be rabid.

January 22d, 1815.--A Newfoundland dog belonging to a gentleman in Piccadilly was supposed
to have swallowed a penny-piece on the 20th. On the evening of that day he was dull, refused
his food, and would not follow his master.

21st. He became restless and pouting, and continually shifting his position. He would not eat
nor would he drink water, but followed his mistress into her bed-room, which he had never done
before, and eagerly lapped the urine from her chamber-pot. He was afterwards seen lapping his
own urine. His restlessness and panting increased, He would neither eat nor drink, and made
two or three attempts to vomit.

22d. He was brought to me this evening. His eyes were wild, the conjunctiva considerably inflamed,
and he panted quickly and violently. There was a considerable flow of saliva from the corners
of his mouth. He was extremely restless and did not remain in one position half a minute. There
was an occasional convulsive nodding motion of the head. The eyes were wandering, and evidently
following some imaginary object; but he was quickly recalled from his delirium by my voice
or that of his master. In a few moments, however, he was wandering again. He had previously
been under my care, and immediately recognised me and offered me his paw. His bark was changed
and had a slight mixture of the howl, and there was a husky choking noise in the throat.

I immediately declared that he was rabid, and with some reluctance on the part of his master,
he was left with me.

23d, 8 A. M. The breathing was less quick and laborious. The spasm of the head was no longer
visible. The flow of saliva had stopped and there was less delirium. The jaw began to be dependent:
the rattling, choking noise in his throat louder. He carried straw about in his mouth. He picked
up some pieces of old leather that lay within his reach and carefully concealed them under
his bed. Two minutes afterwards he would take them out again, and look at them, and once more
hide them. He frequently voided his urine in small quantities, but no longer lapped it. A little
dog was lowered into the den, but he took no notice of it.

10 P. M. Every symptom of fever returned with increased violence. He panted very much, and
did not remain in the same posture two seconds. He was continually running to the end of his
chain and attempting to bite. He was eagerly and wildly watching some imaginary object. His
voice was hoarser--more of the howl mixing with it. The lips were distorted, and the tongue
very black. He was evidently getting weaker. After two or three attempts to escape, he would
sit down for a second, and then rise and plunge to the end of his chain. He drank frequently,
yet but little at a time, and that without difficulty or spasm.

12 P. M. The thirst strangely increased. He had drunk or spilled full three quarts of water.
There was a peculiar eagerness in his manner. He plunged his nose to the very bottom of his
pan, and then snapped at the bubbles which he raised. No spasm followed the drinking. He took
two or three pieces from my hand, but immediately dropped them from want of power to hold them.
Yet he was able for a moment suddenly to close his jaws. When not drinking he was barking with
a harsh sound, and frequently started suddenly, watching, and catching at some imaginary object.

24th, A. M. He was more furious, yet weaker. The thirst was insatiable. He was otherwise diligently
employed in shattering and tearing everything within his reach. He died about three o'clock.

It is impossible to say what was the origin of this disease in him. It is not connected with
any degree or variation of temperature, or any particular state of the atmosphere. It is certainly
more frequent in the summer or the beginning of autumn than in the winter or spring, because
it is a highly nervous and febrile disease, and the degree of fever, and irritability, and
ferocity, and consequent mischief are augmented by increase of temperature. In the great majority
of cases, the inoculation can be distinctly proved. In very few can the possibility be denied.
The injury is inflicted in an instant. There is no contest, and before the injured party can
prepare to retaliate, the rabid dog is far away.

It can easily be believed that when a favourite dog has, but for a moment, lagged behind, he
may be bitten without the owner's knowledge or suspicion. A spaniel belonging to a lady became
rabid. The dog was her companion in her grounds at her country residence, and it was rarely
out of her sight except for a few minutes in the morning, when the servant took it out. She
was not conscious of its having been bitten, and the servant stoutly denied it. The animal
died. A few weeks afterwards the footman was taken ill. He was hydrophobous. In one of his
intervals of comparative quietude he confessed that, one morning, his charge had been attacked
and rolled over by another dog; that there was no appearance of its having been bitten, but
that it had been made sadly dirty, and he had washed it before he suffered it again to go into
the drawing-room. The dog that attacked it must have been rabid, and some of his saliva must
have remained about the coat of the spaniel, by which the servant was fatally inoculated.

Another case of this fearful disease must not be passed over. A dog that had been docile and
attached to his master and mistress, was missing one morning, and came home in the evening
almost covered with dirt. He slunk to his basket, and would pay no attention to any one. His
owners thought it rather strange, and I was sent for in the morning. He was lying on the lap
of his mistress, but was frequently shifting his posture, and every now and then he started,
as if he heard some strange sound. I immediately told them what was the matter, and besought
them to place him in another and secure room. He had been licking both their hands. I was compelled
to tell them at once what was the nature of the case, and besought them to send at once for
their surgeon. They were perfectly angry at my nonsense, as they called it, and I took my leave,
but went immediately to their medical man, and told him what was the real state of the case.
He called, as it were accidentally, a little while afterwards, and I was not far behind him.
The surgeon did his duty, and they escaped.

In May, 1820, I attended on a bitch at Pimlico. She had snapped at the owner, bitten the man-servant
and several dogs, was eagerly watching imaginary objects, and had the peculiar rabid howl.
I offered her water. She started back with a strange expression of horror, and fell into violent
convulsions that lasted about a minute. This was repeated a little while afterwards, and with
the same result. She was destroyed.

The horrible spasms of the human being at the sight of, or the attempt to swallow, fluids occur
sufficiently often to prove the identity of the disease in the biped and the quadruped; but
not in one in fifty cases is there, in the dog, the slightest reluctance to liquids, or difficulty
in swallowing them.

In almost every case in which the dog utters any sound during the disease, there is a manifest
change of voice. In the dog labouring under ferocious madness, it is perfectly characteristic.
There is no other sound that it resembles. The animal is generally standing, or occasionally
sitting, when the singular sound is heard. The muzzle is always elevated. The commencement
is that of a perfect bark, ending abruptly and very singularly, in a howl, a fifth, sixth,
or eighth higher than at the commencement. Dogs are often enough heard howling, but in this
case it is the perfect bark, and the perfect howl rapidly succeeding to the bark.

Every sound uttered by the rabid dog is more or less changed. The huntsman, who knows the voice
of every dog in his pack, occasionally hears a strange challenge. He immediately finds out
that dog, and puts him, as quickly as possible, under confinement. Two or three days may pass
over, and there is not another suspicious circumstance about the animal; still he keeps him
under quarantine, for long experience has taught him to listen to that warning. At length the
disease is manifest in its most fearful form.

There is another partial change of voice, to which the ear of the practitioner will, by degrees,
become habituated, and which will indicate a change in the state of the animal quite as dangerous
as the dismal howl; I mean when there is a hoarse inward bark, with a slight but characteristic
elevation of the tone. In other cases, after two or three distinct barks, will come the peculiar
one mingled with the howl. Both of them will terminate fatally, and in both of them the rabid
howl cannot possibly be mistaken.

There is a singular brightness in the eye of the rabid dog, but it does not last more than
two or three days. It then becomes dull and wasted; a cloudiness steals over the conjunctiva,
which changes to a yellow tinge, and then to a dark green, indicative of ulceration deeply
seated within the eye. In eight and forty hours from the first clouding of the eye, it becomes
one disorganised mass.

There is in the rabid dog a strange embarrassment of general sensibility--a seemingly total
loss of feeling.

Absence of pain in the bitten part is an almost invariable accompaniment of rabies. I have
known a dog set to work, and gnaw and tear the flesh completely away from his legs and feet.
At other times the penis is perfectly demolished from the very base. Ellis in his "Shepherd's
Sure Guide," asserts, that, however severely a mad dog is beaten, a cry is never forced from
him. I am certain of the truth of this, for I have again and again failed in extracting that
cry. Ellis tells that at the kennel at Goddesden, some of the grooms heated a poker red hot,
and holding it near the mad hound's mouth, he most greedily seized it, and kept it until the
mouth was most dreadfully burned.

In the great majority of cases of furious madness, and in almost every case of dumb madness,
there is evident affection of the lumbar portion of the spinal cord. There is a staggering
gait, not indicative of general weakness, but referable to the hind quarters alone, and indicating
an affection of the lumbar motor nerve. In a few cases it approaches more to a general paralytic
affection.

In the very earliest period of rabies, the person accustomed to dogs will detect the existence
of the disease.

The animal follows the flight, as has been already stated, of various imaginary objects. I
have often watched the changing countenance of the rabid dog when he has been lost to every
surrounding object. I have seen the brightening countenance and the wagging tail as some pleasing
vision has passed before him; but, oftener has the countenance indicated the mingled dislike
and fear with which the intruder was regarded. As soon as the phantom came within the proper
distance he darted on it with true rabid violence.

A spaniel, seemingly at play, snapped, in the morning, at the feet of several persons. In the
evening he bit his master, his master's friend, and another dog. The old habits of obedience
and affection then returned. His master, most strangely, did not suspect the truth, and brought
the animal to me to be examined. The animal was, as I had often seen him, perfectly docile
and eager to be caressed. At my suggestion, or rather entreaty, he was left with me. On the
following morning the disease was plain enough, and on the following day he died. A post-mortem
examination took place, and proved that he was unequivocally rabid.

A lady would nurse her dog, after I had declared it to be rabid, and when he was dangerous
to every one but herself, and even to her from the saliva which he plentifully scattered about.
At length he darted at every one that entered the room, until a footman keeping the animal
at bay with the poker, the husband of the lady dragged her from the room. The noise that the
dog made was then terrific, and he almost gnawed his way through the door. At midnight his
violence nearly ceased, and the door was partially opened. He was staggering and falling about,
with every limb violently agitated. At the entreaty of the lady, a servant ventured in to make
a kind of bed for him. The dog suddenly darted at him, and dropped and died.

A terrier, ten years old, had been ill, and refused all food for three days. On the fourth
day he bit a cat of which he had been unusually fond, and he likewise bit three dogs. I was
requested to see him. I found him loose in the kitchen, and at first refused to go in, but,
after observing him for a minute or two, I thought that I might venture. He had a peculiarly
wild and eager look, and turned sharply round at the least noise. He often watched the flight
of some imaginary object, and pursued with the utmost fury every fly that he saw. He searchingly
sniffed about the room, and examined my legs with an eagerness that made me absolutely tremble.
His quarrel with the cat had been made up, and when he was not otherwise employed he was eagerly
licking her and her kittens. In the excess or derangement of his fondness, he fairly rolled
them from one end of the kitchen to another. With difficulty I induced his master to permit
me to destroy him.

It is not every dog, that in the most aggravated state of the disease shows a disposition to
bite. The finest Newfoundland dog that I ever saw became rabid. He had been bitten by a cur,
and was supposed to have been thoroughly examined in the country. No wound, however, was found:
the circumstance was almost forgotten, and he came up to the metropolis with his master. He
became dull, disinclined to play, and refused all food. He was continually watching imaginary
objects, but he did not snap at them. There was no howl, nor any disposition to bite. He offered
himself to be caressed, and he was not satisfied except he was shaken by the paw. On the second
day I saw him. He watched every passing object with peculiar anxiety, and followed with deep
attention the motions of a horse, his old acquaintance; but he made no effort to escape, nor
evinced any disposition to do mischief. I went to him, and patted and coaxed him, and he told
me as plainly as looks and actions, and a somewhat deepened whine could express it, how much
he was gratified. I saw him on the third day. He was evidently dying. He could not crawl even
to the door of his temporary kennel; but he pushed forward his paw a little way, and, as I
shook it, I felt the tetanic muscular action which accompanies the departure of life.

On the other hand there are rabid dogs whose ferocity knows no bounds. If they are threatened
with a stick, they fly at, and seize it, and furiously shake it. They are incessantly employed
in darting to the end of their chain, and attempting to crush it with their teeth, and tearing
to pieces their kennel, or the wood work that is within their reach. They are regardless of
pain. The canine teeth, the incisor teeth are torn away; yet, unwearied and insensible to suffering,
they continue their efforts to escape. A dog was chained near a kitchen fire. He was incessant
in his endeavours to escape, and, when he found that he could not effect it, he seized, in
his impotent rage, the burning coals as they fell, and crushed them with his teeth.

If by chance a dog in this state effects his escape, he wanders over the country bent on destruction.
He attacks both the quadruped and the biped. He seeks the village street, or the more crowded
one of the town, and he suffers no dog to escape him. The horse is his frequent prey, and the
human being is not always safe from his attack. A rabid dog running down Park-lane, in 1825,
bit no fewer than five horses, and fully as many dogs. He was seen to steal treacherously upon
some of his victims, and inflict the fatal wound. Sometimes he seeks the more distant pasturage.
He gets among the sheep, and more than forty have been fatally inoculated in one night. A rabid
dog attacked a herd of cows, and five-and-twenty of them fell victims. In July, 1813, a mad
dog broke into the menagerie of the Duchess of York, at Oatlands, and although the palisades
that divided the different compartments of the menagerie were full six feet in height, and
difficult, or apparently almost impossible to climb, he was found asleep in one of them, and
it was clearly ascertained that he had bitten at least ten of the dogs.

At length the rabid dog becomes completely exhausted, and slowly reels along the road with
his tail depressed, seemingly half unconscious of surrounding objects. His open mouth, and
protruding and blackened tongue, and rolling gait sufficiently characterise him. He creeps
into some sheltered place and then he sleeps twelve hours or more. It is dangerous to disturb
his slumbers, for his desire to do mischief immediately returns, and the slightest touch, or
attempt to caress him, is repaid by a fatal wound. This should be a caution never to meddle
with a sleeping dog in a way-side house, and, indeed, never to disturb him anywhere.

In an early period of the disease in some dogs, and in others when the strength of the animal
is nearly worn away, a peculiar paralysis of the muscles of the tongue and jaws is seen. The
mouth is partially open, and the tongue protruding. In some cases the dog is able to close
his mouth by a sudden and violent effort, and is as ferocious and as dangerous as one the muscles
of whose face are unaffected. At other times the palsy is complete, and the animal is unable
to close his mouth or retract his tongue. These latter cases, however, are rare.

A dog must not be immediately condemned because he has this open mouth and fixed jaw. Bones
constitute a frequent and a considerable portion of the food of dogs. In the eagerness with
which these bones are crushed, spicula or large pieces of them become wedged between the molar
teeth, and form an inseparable obstacle to the closing of the teeth. The tongue partially protrudes.
There is a constant discharge of saliva from the mouth, far greater than when the true paralysis
exists. The dog is continually fighting at the corners of his mouth, and the countenance is
expressive of intense anxiety, although not of the same irritable character as in rabies.

I was once requested to meet a medical gentleman in consultation respecting a supposed case
of rabies. There was protrusion and discoloration of the tongue, and fighting at the corners
of the mouth, and intense anxiety of countenance. He had been in this state for four-and-twenty
hours. This was a case in which I should possibly have been deceived had it been the first
dog that I had seen with dumb madness. After having tested a little the ferocity or manageableness
of the animal, I passed my hand along the outside of the jaws, and felt a bone wedged between
two of the grinders. The forceps soon set all right with him.

It is time to inquire more strictly into the post-mortem appearances of rabies in the dog.

In dumb madness the unfailing accompaniment is, to a greater or less degree, paralysis of the
muscles of the lower jaw, and the tongue is discoloured and swollen, and hanging from the mouth;
more blood than usual also is deposited in the anterior and inferior portion of it. Its colour
varies from a dark red to a dingy purple, or almost black. In ferocious madness it is usually
torn and bruised, or it is discoloured by the dirt and filth with which it has been brought
into contact, and, not unfrequently, its anterior portion is coated with some disgusting matter.
The papillae, or small projections on the back of the tongue, are elongated and widened, and
their mucous covering evidently reddened. The orifices of the glands of the tongue are frequently
enlarged, particularly as they run their course along the froenum of the tongue.

The fauces, situated at the posterior part of the mouth, generally exhibit traces of inflammation.
They appear in the majority of cases of ferocious madness, and they are never deficient after
dumb madness. They are usually most intense either towards the palatine arch or the larynx.
Sometimes an inflammatory character is diffused through its whole extent, but occasionally
it is more or less intense towards one or both of the terminations of the fauces, while the
intermediate portion retains nearly its healthy hue.

There is one circumstance of not unfrequent occurrence, which will at once decide the case--the
presence of indigestible matter, probably small in quantity, in the back part of the mouth.
This speaks volumes as to the depraved appetite of the patient, and the loss of power in the
muscles of the pharynx.

Little will depend on the tonsils of the throat. They occasionally enlarge to more than double
their usual size; but this is more in quiet than in ferocious madness. The insatiable thirst
of the rabid dog is perhaps connected with this condition of them.

The epiglottis should be very carefully observed. It is more or less injected in every case
of rabies. Numerous vessels increase in size and multiply round its edge, and there is considerable
injection and thickening.

Inflammation of the edges of the glottis, and particularly of the membrane which covers its
margin, is often seen, and accounts for the harsh guttural breathing which frequently accompanies
dumb madness. The inflammatory blush of the larynx, though often existing in a very slight
degree, deserves considerable attention.

The appearances in the trachea are very uncertain. There is occasionally the greatest intensity
of inflammation through the whole of it; at other times there is not the slightest appearance
of it. There is the same uncertainty with regard to the bronchial tubes and the lungs; but
there is no characteristic symptom or lesion in the lungs.

Great stress has been laid on the appearance of the heart; but, generally speaking, in nine
cases out of ten, the heart of the rabid dog will exhibit no other symptoms of disease than
an increased yet variable deepness of colour in the lining membrane of the ventricles. No dependence
can be placed on any of the appearances of the oesophagus; and, when they are at the worst,
the inflammation occupies only a portion of that tube.

With regard to the interior of the stomach, if the dog has been dead only a few hours the true
inflammatory blush will remain. If four-and-twenty hours have elapsed, the bright red colour
will have changed to a darker red, or a violet or a brownish hue. In a few hours after this,
a process of corrosion will generally commence, and the mucous membrane will be softened and
rendered thinner, and, to a certain extent, eaten through. The examiner, however, must not
attribute that to disease which is the natural process of the cession of life.

Much attention should be paid to the appearance of the stomach and its contents. If it contains
a strange mingled mass of hair, and hay, and straw, and horse-dung, and earth, or portions
of the bed on which the dog had lain, we should seldom err if we affirmed that he died rabid;
for it is only under the influence of the depraved appetite of rabies that such substances
are devoured. It is not the presence of every kind of extraneous substance that will be satisfactory:
pieces of coal, or wood, or even the filthiest matter, will not justify us in pronouncing the
animal to be rabid; it is that peculiarly mingled mass of straw, and hair, and filth of various
kinds, that must indicate the existence of rabies.

When there are no solid indigesta, but a fluid composed principally of vitiated bile or extravasated
blood, there will be a strong indication of the presence of rabies. When, also, there are in
the duodenum and jejunum small portions of indigesta, the detection of the least quantity will
be decisive. The remainder has been ejected by vomit; and inquiry should be made of the nature
of the matter that has been discharged.

The inflammation of rabies is of a peculiar character in the stomach. It is generally confined
to the summits of the folds of the stomach, or it is most intense there. On the summits of
the rugae there are effusions of bloody matter, or spots of ecchymosis, presenting an appearance
almost like crushed black currants. There may be only a few of them; but they are indications
of the evil that has been effected.

From appearances that present themselves in the intestines, the bladder, the blood-vessels,
or the brain, no conclusion can be drawn; they are simply indications of inflammation.

We now rapidly, and for a little while, retrace our steps. What is the cause of this fatal
disease, that has so long occupied our attention? It is the saliva of a rabid animal received
into a wound, or on an abraded surface. In horses, cattle, sheep, swine, and the human being,
it is caused by inoculation alone; but, according to some persons, it is produced spontaneously
in other animals.

I will suppose that a wound by a rabid dog is inflicted. The virus is deposited on or near
its surface, and there it remains for a certain indefinite period of time. The wound generally
heals up kindly; in fact, it differs in no respect from a similar wound inflicted by the teeth
of an animal in perfect health. Weeks and months, in some cases, pass on, and there is nothing
to indicate danger, until a degree of itching in the cicatrix of the wound is felt. From its
long-continued presence as a foreign body, it may have rendered the tissue, or nervous fibre
connected with it, irritable and susceptible of impression, or it may have attracted and assimilated
to itself certain elements, and rabies is produced.

The virus does not appear to have the same effect on every animal. Of four dogs bitten by,
or inoculated from, one that is rabid, three, perhaps, would display every symptom of the disease.
Of four human beings, not more than one would become rabid. John Hunter used to say not more
than one in twenty; but that is probably erroneous. Cattle appear to have a greater chance
of escape, and sheep a still greater chance.

The time of incubation is different in different animals. With regard to the human being, there
are various strange and contradictory stories. Some have asserted that it has appeared on the
very day on which the bite was inflicted, or within two or three days of that time. Dr. Bardsley,
on the other hand, relates a case in which twelve years elapsed between the bite and the disease.
If the virus may lurk so long as this in the constitution, it is a most lamentable affair.
According to one account, more than thirty years intervened. The usual time extends from three
weeks to six or seven months.

In the dog I have never seen a case in which plain and palpable rabies occurred in less than
fourteen days after the bite. The average time I should calculate at five or six weeks. In
three months I should consider the animal as tolerably safe. I am, however, relating my own
experience, and have known but two instances in which the period much exceeded three months.
In one of these five months elapsed, and the other did not become affected until after the
expiration of the seventh month.

The quality and the quantity of the virus may have something to do with this, and so may the
predisposition in the bitten animal to be affected by the poison. If it is connected with oestrum,
the bitch will probably become a disgusting, as well as dangerous animal; if with parturition,
there is a strange perversion of maternal affection--she is incessantly and violently licking
her young, continually shifting them from place to place; and, in less than four-and-twenty
hours, they will be destroyed by the reckless manner in which they are treated. In both cases
the development of the disease seems to wait on the completion of her time of pregnancy. It
appears in the space of two months after the bite, if her parturition is near at hand, or it
is delayed for double that time, if the period of labour is so far distant.

The duration of the disease is different in different animals. In man it has run its course
in twenty-four hours, and rarely exceeds seventy-two. In the horse from three to four days;
in the sheep and ox from five to seven; and in the dog from four to six.

Of the real nature of the rabid virus, we know but little. It has never been analysed, and
it would be a difficult process to analyse it. It is not diffused by the air, nor communicated
by the breath, nor even by actual contact, if the skin is sound. It must be received into a
wound. It must come in contact with some tissue or nervous fibre, and lie dormant there for
a considerable, but uncertain period. The absorbents remove everything around; whatever else
is useless, or would he injurious, is taken away, but this strange substance is unchanged.
It does not enter into the circulation, for there it would undergo some modification and change,
or would be rejected. It lies for a time absolutely dormant, and far longer than any other
known poison; but, at length, the tissue on which it has lain begins to render it somewhat
sensible, and assimilates to itself certain elements. The cicatrix begins to be painful, and
inflammation spreads around. The absorbents are called into more powerful action; they begin
to attack the virus itself, and a portion of it is taken up, and carried into the circulation,
and acquires the property of assimilating other secretions to its own nature, or it is determined
to one of the secretions only; it alters the character of that secretion, envenoms it, and
gives it the power of propagating the disease.

Something like this is the history of many animal poisons. In variola and the vaccine disease
the poison is determined to the skin, in glanders to the Schneiderian membrane, and in farcy
to the superficial absorbents. Each in its turn becomes the depot of the poison. So it is with
the salivary glands of the rabid animal; in them it is formed, or to them it is determined,
and from them, and them alone, it is communicated to other animals.

Professor Dick, in his valuable Manual of Veterinary Science, states some peculiar views, and
those highly interesting, respecting the disease of rabies. He holds it to be essentially an
inflammatory affection, attacking peculiarly the mucous membrane of the nose, and extending
thence through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bones to the interior part of the brain,
and so giving rise to a derangement of the nervous system as a necessary consequence. This
train of symptoms constitutes mainly, if not wholly, the essence of an occasional epidemic
not unlike some forms of influenza or epizootic disease, and the bite of a rabid animal is
not always, to an animal so bitten, the exciting cause of the disease, but merely an accidental
concomitant in the prevailing disorder. Also the disease hydrophobia, produced in man, is not
always the result of any poison introduced into his system, but merely the melancholy, and
often fatal result of panic fear, and of the disordered slate of the imagination. Those who
are acquainted with the effects of sympathy, and imitation, and panic, in the production of
nervous disorders, will readily apprehend the meaning of the Professor.

Some of these diseases speedily run their course and exhaust themselves. Cowpox and farcy,
in many instances, have this character. Perhaps, to a certain degree, this may be affirmed
of all of them. I have seen cases, which I could not mistake, in which the symptoms of rabies
were one after another developed. The dog was plainly and undeniably rabid, and I had given
him up as lost; but, after a certain period, the symptoms began to be less distinct; they gradually
disappeared, and the animal returned to perfect health. This may have formed one ground of
belief in the power of certain medicines, and most assuredly it gives encouragement to perseverance
in the use of remedial measures.

It has then been proved, and I hope demonstratively, that rabies is propagated by inoculation.
It has also been established that although every animal labouring under this disease is capable
of communicating it, yet, with very few exceptions, it can be traced to the bite of the dog.
It has still further been shown that the malady, generally appears at some period between the
third and seventh month from the time of inoculation. At the expiration of the eighth month,
the animal may be considered to be safe; for there is only one acknowledged case on record,
in which the disease appeared in the dog after the seventh month from the bite had passed.

Then it would appear that if a species of quarantine could be established, and every dog confined
separately for eight months, the disease would be annihilated in our country, or could only
reappear in consequence of the importation of some infected animal. Such a course of proceeding,
however, could never be enforced either in the sporting world or among the peasantry. Other
measures, however, might be resorted to in order to lessen the devastations of this malady;
and that which first presents itself to the mind as a powerful cause of rabies is the number
of useless and dangerous dogs that are kept in the country for the most nefarious and, in the
neighbourhood of considerable towns, the most brutal purposes; without the slightest hesitation,
I will affirm that rabies is propagated, nineteen times out of twenty, by the cur and the lurcher
in the country, and the fighting-dog in towns.

A tax should be laid on every useless dog, and doubly or trebly heavier than on the sporting-dog.
No dog except the shepherd's should be exempt from this tax, unless, perhaps, it is the truck-dog,
and his owner should be compelled to take out a license; to have his name in large letters
on his cart; and he should be heavily fined if the animal is found loose in the streets, or
if he is used for fighting.

The disease is rarely propagated by petted and house-dogs They are little exposed to the danger
of inoculation; yet, we pity, or almost detest, the folly of those by whom their favourites
are indulged, and spoiled even more than their children.

We will now suppose that a person has had the misfortune to be bitten by a rabid dog: what
course is he to pursue? What preventive means are to be adopted? Some persons, and of no mean
standing in the medical world, have recommended a ligature. The reply would be, that this ligature
must be worn during a very inconvenient and dangerous period of time. The virus lies in the
wound inert during many successive weeks and months.

Dr. Haygarth first suggested that a long-continued stream of warm water should be poured upon
the wound from the mouth of a kettle. He says that the poison exists in a fluid form, and therefore
we should suppose that water would be its natural solvent. Dr. Massey adds to this, that if
the wound is small, it should be dilated, in order that the stream may descend on the part
on which the poison is deposited. We are far, however, from being certain that this falling
of water on the part, may not by possibility force a portion of the virus farther into the
texture, or cause it to be entangled with other parts of the wound. [2]

There is a similar or stronger objection to the cupping-glass of Dr. Barry. The virus, forced
from the texture with which it lies in contact by the rush of blood from the substance beneath,
is too likely to inoculate, or become entangled with, other parts of the wound.

There is great objection to suction of the wound; for, in addition to this possible entanglement,
the lips, or the mouth, may have been abraded, and thus the danger considerably aggravated.
There also remains the undecided question as to the absorption of the virus through the medium
of a mucous surface.

Excision of the part is the mode of prevention usually adopted by the human surgeon, and to
a certain extent it is a judicious practice. If the virus is not received into the circulation,
but lies dormant in the wound for a considerable time, the disease cannot supervene if the
inoculated part is destroyed.

This operation, however, demands greater skill and tact than is generally supposed. It requires
a determination fully to accomplish the desired object; for every portion of the wound with
which the tooth could possibly have come into contact, must be removed. This is often exceedingly
difficult to accomplish, on account of the situation and direction of the wound. The knife
must not enter the wound, or it will be likely to be itself empoisoned, and then the mischief
and the danger will be increased instead of removed. Dr. Massey was convinced of the impropriety
of this when he advised that,

  "should the knife by chance enter the wound that had been made by the
  dog's tooth, the operation should be recommenced with a clean knife,
  otherwise the sound parts will become inoculated."

If the incision is made freely and properly round the wound, and does not penetrate into it,
yet the blood will follow the knife, and a portion of it will enter into the wound caused by
the dog, and will come in contact with the virus, and will probably be contaminated, and will
then overflow the original wound, and will be received into the new incision, and will carry
with it the seeds of disease and death: therefore it is, that scarcely a year passes without
some lamentable instances of the failure of incisions. It has occurred in the practice of the
most eminent surgeons, and seems scarcely or not all to impeach the skill of the operator.

Aware of this, there are very few human practitioners who do not use the caustic after the
knife. Every portion of the new wound is submitted to its influence. They do not consider the
patient to be safe without this second operation. But has the question never occurred to them,
that if the caustic is necessary to give security to the operation by incision, the knife might
have been spared, and the caustic alone used?

The veterinary surgeon, when operating on the horse, or cattle, or the dog, frequently has
recourse to the actual cautery. I could, perhaps, excuse this practice, although I would not
adopt it, in superficial wounds; but I do not know the instrument that could be safely used
in deeper ones. If it were sufficiently small to adapt itself to the tortuous course of little
wounds, it would be cooled and inert before it could have destroyed the lower portions of them.
If it were of sufficient substance long to retain the heat, it would make a large and fearful
chasm, and probably interfere with the future usefulness of the animal. The result of the cases
in which the cautery has been used proves that in too many instances it is an inefficient protection.
The rabid dog in Park Lane has already been mentioned. He bit several horses before he could
be destroyed. Caustic was applied to one of them, and the hot iron to the others. The first
was saved, almost all the others were lost. A similar case occurred last spring; the caustic
was an efficacious preventive; the cautery was perfectly useless. What caustic then should
be applied? Certainly not that to which the surgeon usually has recourse--a liquid one. Certainly
not one that speedily deliquesces; for they are both unmanageable, and, what is a more important
consideration, they may hold in solution, and not decompose the poison, and thus inoculate
the whole of the wound. The application which promises to be successful, is that of the 'lunar
caustic'. It is perfectly manageable, and, being sharpened to a point, may be applied with
certainty to every recess and sinuosity of the wound.

Potash and nitric acid form a caustic which will destroy the substances with which they come
in contact, but the combination of this caustic and the animal fibre will be a soft or semi-fluid
mass. In this the virus is suspended, and with this it lies or may be precipitated upon the
living fibre beneath. Then there is danger of re-inoculation; and it would seem that this fatal
process is often accomplished. The eschar formed by the lunar caustic is dry, hard, and insoluble.
If the whole of the wound has been fairly exposed to its action, an insoluble compound of animal
fibre and the metallic salt is produced, in which the virus is wrapped up, and from which it
cannot be separated. In a short time the dead matter sloughs away, and the virus is thrown
off with it.

Previous to applying the caustic it will sometimes be necessary to enlarge the wound, in order
that every part may be fairly got at; and the eschar having sloughed off, it will always be
prudent to apply the caustic a second time, but more slightly, in order to destroy any part
that may not have received the full influence of the first operation, or that, by possibility,
might have been inoculated during the operation.

Mr. Smerdon, in the Medical and Physical Journal, March 1820, thus reasons:

  "All the morbid poisons that require to lie dormant a certain time
  before their effects are manifested, pass into the system through the
  medium of the absorbents," (we somewhat differ from Mr. Smerdon here,
  but his reasoning is equally applicable to the nervous system,) "and
  if the absorbents are excited, their action is increased. I am
  satisfied that even in a venereal sore the application of a caustic,
  instead of destroying the disease, causes its rapid extension. Then,"
  asks he, "if the virus on a small venereal sore is rendered more
  active by the caustic, is it not highly probable that the same law
  holds good with respect to the poison of rabies?"

The sooner the caustic is applied the better; but I should not hesitate to have recourse to
it even after the constitution has become affected. It is related in the Medico-Chirurgical
Annals of Altenburg (Sept. 1821), that two men were bitten by a rabid dog. One became hydrophobous
and died; the other had evident symptoms of hydrophobia a few days afterwards. A surgeon excised
the bitten part, and the disease disappeared. After a period of six days the symptoms returned.
The wound was examined; considerable fungus was found sprouting from its bottom. This was extirpated.
The hydrophobia symptoms were again removed, and the man did well. This is a most instructive case.

In the Journal Pratique de Medecine Veterinaire, M. Damalix gives an interesting account of
the effect of a bite of a rabid dog on a horse. On the 8th of July, 1828, a fowl-merchant,
proceeding to the market of Colmar, was attacked by a dog, who, after some fruitless efforts
to get into the cart, bit the horse on the left side of the face, and fled precipitately. A
veterinary surgeon was sent for, who applied the cautery to the horse, gave him some populeum
ointment, and bled him. Everything appeared to go on well, and on the 16th the wounds were healed.

On the 25th a great alteration took place. The horse was careless and slow; he sometimes refused
to go at all, and would not attend in the least to the whip, which had never occurred before.
In the evening the wounds opened spontaneously, an ichorous and infectious pus run from them;
there was salivation and utter loss of appetite: strange fancies seemed to possess him; he
showed a desire to bite his master. The veterinary surgeon might approach him with safety;
but the moment his owner or the children appeared, he darted at them, and would have torn them
in pieces. The disease now took on the appearance of acute glanders; livid and fungous wounds
broke out; the stable was saturated with an infectious smell, the horse refused his food, or
was unable to eat. The mayor at last interfered, and the animal was destroyed. In the Treatises
on The Horse, Cattle, and Sheep, in former volumes, accounts are fully given of this dreadful
malady in these animals. It may not be uninteresting to give a hasty sketch of it in some of
the inferior classes.

