The names of Betterton and Kynaston bespeak the importance of the Duke's Theatre. Cibber calls
Betterton "an actor, as Shakspeare was an author, both without competitors;" in his performance
of Hamlet, he profited by the instructions of Sir William Davenant, who embodied his recollections
of Joseph Taylor, instructed by SHAKSPEARE to play the character! What a delightful association--to
see Hamlet represented in the true vein in which the sublime author conceived it! Kynaston's
celebrity was of a more equivocal description. He played Juliet to Betterton's Romeo, and was
the Siddons of his day; for women did not generally appear on the stage till after the Restoration.
The anecdote of Charles II. waiting at the theatre for the stage queen to be shaved is well known.

It may be at this moment interesting to mention that the first Covent Garden Theatre was opened
under the patent granted to Sir William Davenant for the Dorset Gardens and Lincoln's Inn Fields
Theatres. We must also acknowledge our obligation for the preceding notes to the Companion
to the Theatres, a pretty little work which we noticed en passant when published, and which
we now seasonably recommend to the notice of our readers.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOUR SONNETS.

(For the Mirror.)

SPRING.

  Season of sighs perfumed, and maiden flowers,
    Young Beauty's birthday, cradled in delight
  And kept by muses in the blushing bowers
    Where snow-drops spring most delicately white!
  Oh it is luxury to minds that feel
    Now to prove truants to the giddy world,
  Calmly to watch the dewy tints that steal
    O'er opening roses--'till in smiles unfurled
  Their fresh-made petals silently unfold.
    Or mark the springing grass--or gaze upon
  Primeval morning till the hues of gold
    Blaze forth and centre in the glorious sun!
  Whose gentler beams exhale the tears of night,
  And bid each grateful tongue deep melodies indite.

SUMMER.

  Now is thy fragrant garland made complete,
    Maturing year! but as its many dyes
  Mingle in rainbow hues divinely sweet,
    They fade and fleet in unobserved sighs!
  Yet now all fresh and fair, how dear thou art,
    Just born to breathe and perish! touched by heaven,
  From lifeless Winter to a beating heart,
    From scathing blasts to Summer's balmy even!
  Methinks some angel from the bowers of bliss,
    In May descended, scattering blossoms round,
  Embraced each opening flower, bestowed a kiss,
    And woke the notes of harmony profound;
  But ere July had waned, alas, she fled,
  Took back to heaven the flowers, and left the falling leaves instead.

AUTUMN.

  Field flowers and breathing minstrelsy, farewell!
    The rose is colourless and withering fast,
  Sweet Philomel her song forgets to swell,
    And Summer's rich variety is past!
  The sear leaves wander, and the hoar of age
    Gathers her trophy for the dying year,
  And following in her noiseless pilgrimage,
    Waters her couch with many a pearly tear.
  Yet there is one unchanging friend who stays
    To cheer the passage into Winter's gloom--
  The redbreast chants his solitary lays,
    A simple requiem over Nature's tomb,
  So, when the Spring of life shall end with me,
  God of my Fathers! may I find a changeless Friend in thee!

WINTER.

  The trees are leafless, and the hollow blast
    Sings a shrill anthem to the bitter gloom,
  The lately smiling pastures are a waste,
    While beauty generates in Nature's womb;
  The frowning clouds are charged with fleecy snow,
    And storm and tempest bear a rival sway;
  Soft gurgling rivulets have ceased to flow,
    And beauty's garlands wither in decay:
  Yet look but heavenward! beautiful and young
    In life and lustre see the stars of night
  Untouch'd by time through ages roll along,
    And clear as when at first they burst to light.
  And then look from the stars where heaven appears
  Clad in the fertile Spring of everlasting years!

BENJAMIN GOUGH.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXERCISE, AIR, AND SLEEP.

(Abridged from Mr. Richards's "Treatise on Nervous Disorders.")

The generality of people are well aware of the vast importance of exercise; but few are acquainted
with its modus operandi, and few avail themselves so fully as they might of its extensive benefits.
The function of respiration, which endues the blood with its vivifying principle, is very much
influenced by exercise; for our Omniscient Creator has given to our lungs the same faculty
of imbibing nutriment from various kinds of air, as He has given to the stomach the power of
extracting nourishment from different kinds of aliment; and as the healthy functions of the
stomach depend upon the due performance of certain chemical and mechanical actions, so do the
functions of the lungs depend upon the due performance of proper exercise.

Man being an animal destined for an active and useful life, Providence has ordained that sloth
shall bring with it its own punishment. He who passes nearly the whole of his life in the open
air, inhaling a salubrious atmosphere, enjoys health and vigour of body with tranquillity of
mind, and dies at the utmost limit allotted to mortality. He, on the contrary, who leads an
indolent or sedentary life, combining with it excessive mental exertion, is a martyr to a train
of nervous symptoms, which are extremely annoying. Man was not created for a sedentary or slothful
life; but all his organs and attributes are calculated for an existence of activity and industry.
If therefore we would insure health and comfort, we must make exercise--to use Dr. Cheyne's
expression--a part of our religion. But this exercise should be in the open air, and in such
places as are most free from smoke, or any noxious exhalations; where, in fact, the air circulates
freely, purely, and abundantly. I am continually told by persons that they take a great deal
of exercise, being constantly on their feet from morning till night; but, upon inquiry, it
happens, that this exercise is not in the open air, but in a crowded apartment, perhaps, as
in a public office, a manufactory, or at a dress maker's, where twenty or thirty young girls
are crammed together from nine o'clock in the morning till nine at night, or, what is nearly
as pernicious, in a house but thinly inhabited. Exercise this cannot be called; it is the worst
species of labour, entailing upon its victims numerous evils. Good air is as essential as wholesome
food; for the air, by coming into immediate contact with the blood, enters at once into the
constitution. If therefore the air be bad, every part of the body, whether near the heart or
far from it, must participate in the evil which is produced.

It is on this account that exercise in the open air is so materially beneficial to digestion.
If the blood be not properly prepared by the action of good air, how can the arteries of the
stomach secrete good gastric juice? Then, we have a mechanical effect besides. By exercise
the circulation of the blood is rendered more energetic and regular. Every artery, muscle,
and gland is excited into action, and the work of existence goes on with spirit. The muscles
press the blood-vessels, and squeeze the glands, so that none of them can be idle; so that,
in short, every organ thus influenced must be in action. The consequence of all this is, that
every function is well performed. The stomach digests readily, the liver pours out its bile
freely, the bowels act regularly, and much superfluous heat is thrown out by perspiration.
These are all very important operations, and in proportion to the perfection with which they
are performed will be the health and comfort of the individual.

