In 1794 and 1795 he made elaborate drawings of Rochester, Chepstow, Birmingham, Worcester,
Guildford, Cambridge, and other towns, for magazines. In 1796 he did the same for Chester,
Bristol, Leith, Peterborough, and Windsor. Within the next four years he completed the circuit
of twenty-six counties in England and Wales, and he also exhibited twenty-three highly finished
drawings of cathedrals and churches. He was slow to undertake oil-painting, preferring the
more rapid touch and the light-and-shade effect of the crayon, or the delicate and beautiful
effects of water-colors. He was always greater as a painter in water-colors than in oils, and
it is claimed by Redgrave that "the art all but began with him," and that his water-color paintings
"epitomize the whole mystery of landscape art." Some of his paintings in this line have been
sold at enormous prices, and even in his own day his water-color picture of Tivoli sold for
eighteen hundred guineas. Turner became as fond of Northern Yorkshire--which he first visited
in 1797--as he was of Southern Kent. He found there a great variety of scenery, from the sweet
and peaceful to the ennobling and grand. He visited and made studies from all the old cathedrals,
castles, and abbeys, and in 1798 he exhibited pictures of Fountain and Kirkstall Abbeys, Holy
Island Cathedral, Buttermere Lake, Dunstanborough Castle, as well as "Morning Among the Corriston
Fells." He found in Yorkshire also some of his warmest friends and most munificent patrons,
notably Mr. Hawkesworth Fawkes, of Farnley Hall, whose house was adorned with fifty thousand
dollars' worth of Turner's pictures. Some additions to Farnley Hall were designed by Turner,
and he was always a welcome visitor. Here he sketched, and at intervals enjoyed himself greatly
in hunting and fishing. It is said that the Farnley portfolios still contain sketches not only
of the hall and its precincts, but of coast scenes, Swiss views, drawings of birds, illustrations
of the Civil War, and, more especially, of fifty-three remarkable drawings of the Rhineland
regions, done at the rate of three a day; these last were offered by Turner to Mr. Fawkes on
his return from the Continent for the sum of five hundred pounds, and the bargain was closed
at once. When Mr. Fawkes visited London he spent hours in Turner's private gallery, but was
never shown into the painting-room. Indeed, very few persons were ever allowed there. Once,
when Turner dined at a hotel with Mr. Fawkes, the artist took too much wine, and reeled about,
exclaiming, "Hawkey, I am the real lion--I am the great lion of the day, Hawkey." When Mr.
Fawkes died, ended Turner's visits to Farnley. He never went there again, but when the younger
Fawkes brought the Rhine drawings up to London for him to see again, he passed his hand over
the "Lorelei Twilight," saying, with tears in his eyes, "But Hawkey! but Hawkey!" When Mr.
Wells, an artist of Addiscomb, died he mourned his loss bitterly, and exclaimed to his daughter:
"Oh, Clara, Clara, these are iron tears! I have lost the best friend I ever had in my life!"
In this family all the children loved him. He would lie on the floor, and play with them, and
the oldest daughter afterward said: "Of all the light-hearted, merry creatures I ever knew,
Turner was the most so." But in 1797 Turner had a bitter disappointment which warped and distorted
all his after-life. A young lady to whom he had become attached while a schoolboy at Margate,
was engaged to be married to him. He had been absent for two years on sketching tours, and
the step-mother of the young lady had intercepted and destroyed his letters, so that at last
she believed the representations made that Turner had deserted her. She became engaged to another,
and was about to be married, when Turner appeared, and pleaded passionately that she would
return to him. She thought that she had been trifled with, and held by her refusal, and did
not find out the wrongs done by the step-mother until it was too late. This disappointment
led to greater self-concentration and stingy money-getting until it became the absorbing passion
of his life, so that the artist passion was dominated by it.

It would take up too large a portion of this book to describe even briefly Turner's travels
and works. Only a bare outline can be given. In 1800 he became an Associate of the Royal Academy.
He moved into a more commodious house at 64 Harley Street. During this year he exhibited pictures
of Caernarvon Castle and the "Fifth Plague of Egypt;" also fine views of Fonthill Abbey, the
new palace of Beckford, with whom he spent much time. The only portrait for which Turner ever
sat was painted in 1800 by George Dance. It shows a handsome young man, with a full but receding
forehead, arched eyebrows, a prominent nose, a massive chin, and a sensual mouth. His thick
and wiry hair is tied behind, and he wears a coat with an immense cape. By this time full-bottomed
wigs had gone out of fashion, and the old barber abandoned his business to go and live with
his artist son. In 1801 Turner exhibited pictures of St. Donat's Castle and Pembroke Castle
in Wales, the Salisbury Chapter-house, an autumn morning in London, the destruction of the
Median army, and Dutch fishing-boats in a gale. He had begun his contest with Claude by painting
pictures of classical subjects in Claude's manner. Turner was elected Royal Academician in
1802, and exhibited several notable oil-paintings, signed with all his initials, which he thenceforth
used. The Academy had been quick to recognize Turner's genius, and he was always its faithful,
conservative, and zealous friend. As an auditor, councillor, or a visitor he was scrupulous,
and he attended general meetings and formal dinners with the same promptitude and certainty
with which for forty-five years he sent his pictures to the annual exhibitions. He was a peacemaker
in debates, but in business he was irresolute. In 1802 he visited the Continent for the first
time, travelling in France, Switzerland, and Italy, and everywhere making sketches. At this
time he carried sketch-books in which he jotted everything--all manner of drawings and outlines
of nature and architecture, notes of local gossip, chemical memoranda, notes of expenses, tavern
bills, views of coasts and cities, ruins, castles, manufacturing works, and detached figures.
One book gives views about the Simplon Pass, another the sea-coast from Nice to Genoa, another
contains countless jottings from the pictures in the Vatican, another is taken up with views
in Paris and Rouen, and several are devoted to Scottish scenery.

In 1806 Turner began his Liber Studiorum, in rivalship of Claude's Liber Veritatis; it was
issued in parts in dark blue covers, each part containing five plates. It was discontinued
in 1814, after seventy plates had been issued. Although not remunerative at the time, in later
days as high as three thousand pounds has been paid for a single copy of the Liber, while the
subscription price was only seventeen pounds ten shillings; even before Turner died a copy
of it was worth over thirty guineas. Charles Turner, the engraver, used the proofs for kindling-paper;
but some years later Colnaghi, the print dealer, paid him fifteen hundred pounds for his remaining
"rubbish," as he considered it. "Good God!" cried the old engraver; "I have been burning bank-notes
all my life!" In 1878 Professor Norton, of Harvard University, published a set of thirty-three
of the best of the Liber studies, reproduced in Boston by the heliotype process. The Liber
Studiorum was intended to manifest Turner's command of the whole compass of the landscape art,
and was divided into six heads: historical, pastoral, elegant pastoral, mountain, marine, and
architectural.

In 1808 Turner was appointed Professor of Perspective in the Royal Academy. During two or three
years only, out of the thirty in which he held the professorship, did he deliver lectures.
He spoke in a deep and mumbling voice, was confused and tedious in manner, and frequently became
hopelessly entangled in blind mazes of obscure words. Sometimes when he had written out his
lectures he was unable to read them. Once, after fumbling in his pockets, he exclaimed: "Gentlemen,
I've been and left my lecture in the hackney-coach." Still he was interested in this work,
and Ruskin says: "The zealous care with which Turner endeavored to do his duty is proved by
a large existing series of drawings, exquisitely tinted, and often completely colored, all
by his own hand, of the most difficult perspective subjects--illustrating not only directions
of light, but effects of light, with a care and completion which would put the work of any
ordinary teacher to utter shame." During this year he took a house at Hammersmith, Upper Mall,
the garden of which ran down to the Thames, but still retained his residence in Harley Street.
In 1812 he first occupied the house No. 47 Queen Anne Street, and this house he retained for
forty years. It was dull, dingy, unpainted, weather-beaten, sooty, with unwashed windows and
shaky doors, and seemed the very abode of poverty, and yet when Turner died his estate was
sworn as under one hundred and forty thousand pounds--seven hundred thousand dollars. When
Turner's father died in 1830 he was succeeded by a withered and sluttish old woman named Danby.
The whole house was dreary, dirty, damp, and full of litter. The master had a fancy for tailless--Manx--cats,
and these made their beds everywhere without disturbance. In the gallery were thirty thousand
fine proofs of engravings piled up and rotting. His studio had a fair north light from two
windows, and was surrounded by water-color drawings. His sherry-bottle was kept in an old second-hand
buffet.

About 1813 or 1814 Turner purchased a place at Twickenham; he rebuilt the house, and called
it Solus Lodge. The rooms were small, and contained models of rigged ships which he used in
his marine views; in his jungle-like garden he grew aquatic plants which he often copied in
foregrounds. He kept a boat for fishing and marine sketching; also a gig and an old cropped-eared
horse, with which he made sketching excursions. He made at this time the acquaintance of Rev.
Mr. Trimmer, the rector of the church at Heston, who was a lover of art, and often took journeys
with Turner. While visiting at the rectory Turner regularly attended church in proper form;
and finally he wrote a note to Mr. Trimmer, alluding to his affection for one of the rector's
kinswomen, and suggesting: "If Miss ---- would but waive bashfulness, or in other words make
an offer instead of expecting one, the same [Lodge] might change occupiers." But Turner was
doomed to disappointment, and never made another attempt at matrimony. In 1814 Turner commenced
his contributions of drawings to illustrate "Cook's Southern Coast," and continued this congenial
work for twelve years, making forty drawings at the rate of about twenty guineas each; the
drawings were returned to the artist after being engraved. In 1815 he exhibited the "Dido Building
Carthage," and in 1817 a companion picture, the "Decline of the Carthaginian Empire," and for
these two pictures the artist refused five thousand pounds, having secretly willed them to
the National Gallery.

Ruskin divides Turner's art life into three periods: that of study, from 1800 to 1820; that
of working out art theories toward an ideal, from 1820 to 1835; and that of recording his own
impressions of nature, from 1835 to 1845, preceded by a period of development, and followed
by a period of decline, from 1845 to 1850. Besides his pictures painted on private commission,
Turner exhibited two hundred and seventy-five pictures at the Academy. The "Rivers of England"
was published in 1824, with sixteen engravings after Turner; another series contained six illustrations
of the "Ports of England"--second-class cities. In 1826 the "Provincial Antiquities of Scotland"
was published, with thirteen illustrations by Turner. The same year he sold his house at Twickenham,
because, he said, "Dad" was always working in the garden, and catching abominable colds. In
1827 Turner commenced the "England and Wales" on his own account, and continued it for eleven
years. It consisted of a hundred plates, illustrating ports, castles, abbeys, cathedrals, palaces,
coast views, and lakes. In 1828 Turner went to Rome by way of Nismes, Avignon, Marseilles,
Nice, and Genoa; and this year painted his "Ulysses Dividing Polyphemus," of which Thornbury
says: "For color, for life and shade, for composition, this seems to me to be the most wonderful
and admirable of Turner's realisms." Ruskin calls it his central picture, illustrating his
perfect power.

In 1832 Turner made a will in which he bequeathed the bulk of his estate for the founding of
an institution "for the Maintenance and Support of Poor and Decayed Male Artists being born
in England and of English parents only, and of lawful issue." It was to be called "Turner's
Gift," and for the next twenty years the artist pinched, and economized to increase the fund
for his noble purpose. At this time he was entering upon his third manner--that of his highest
excellence, when he "went to the cataract for its iris, and the conflagration for its flames;
asked of the sky its intensest azure, of the sun its clearest gold." It is remarked by Ruskin,
who has made most profound study of Turner's works, that he had an underlying meaning or moral
in his groups of foreign pictures; in Carthage, he illustrated the danger of the pursuit of
wealth; in Rome, the fate of unbridled ambition; and in Venice, the vanity of pleasure and
luxury. The Venetian pictures began in 1833, with a painting of the Doge's Palace, Dogana,
Campanile, and Bridge of Sighs; and with these were exhibited "Van Tromp Returning from Battle,"
the "Rotterdam Ferry-boat," and the "Mouth of the Seine." In 1830 or 1831 he made, on commission
from the publisher Cadell, twenty-four sketches to illustrate Walter Scott's poems--published
in 1834--and while doing this he was entertained royally at Abbotsford, and made excursions
with Scott and Lockhart to Dryburgh Abbey and other points of interest. He went as far north
as the Isle of Skye, where he drew Loch Corriskin, and nearly lost his life by a fall. About
this time he made a series of illustrations for Scott's "Life of Napoleon." Turner spent some
time in Edinburgh, frequently sketching with Thomson, a clergyman and local artist, who was
preferred by some of the Scotch amateurs to Turner. He one day called at Thomson's house to
examine his paintings, but instead of expected praises he merely remarked, "You beat me in
frames." Turner made thirty-three illustrations for Rogers's "Poems" (Fig. 75), and seventeen
for an extended edition of Byron. He was in the habit at this time of frequently walking to
Cowley Hall, the residence of a Mr. Rose, where he was kindly welcomed. He was there called
"Old Pogey." One day Mrs. Rose asked him to paint her favorite spaniel; in amazement he cried,
"My dear madam, you do not know what you ask;" and always after this the lady went by the title
of "My dear madam." Mr. Rose tells how he and Turner sat up one night until two o'clock drinking
cognac and water, and talking of their travels. When Mrs. Rose and a lady, a friend, visited
Turner in a house in Harley Street, in mid-winter, they were entertained with wine and biscuits
in a cold room, without a fire, where they saw seven tailless cats, which Turner said were
brought from the Isle of Man.

For three years Turner travelled in France, and made studies and sketches up and down its rivers.
These were first published as "Turner's Annual Tour," but were afterward brought out by Bohn
as "Liber Fluviorum." These sketches have been highly praised by Ruskin; but Hammerton, who
certainly knows French scenery far more accurately than Ruskin, while praising the exquisite
beauty of Turner's work, challenges its accuracy, and especially as to color, saying that "Turner,
as a colorist, was splendid and powerful, but utterly unfaithful." Leitch Ritchie, who was
associated with Turner in this work, could not travel with him, their tastes were so unlike;
and he says that Turner's drawings were marvellously exaggerated, that he would make a splendid
picture of a place without a single correct detail, trebling the height of spires and throwing
in imaginary accessories. Turner always claimed the right to change the groupings of his landscapes
and architecture at will, preferring to give a general and idealized view of the landscape
rather than a precise copy thereof.

In 1835 he exhibited "Heidelberg Castle in the Olden Time," "Ehrenbreitstein," "Venice from
the Salute Church," and "Line-fishing off Hastings." In 1836 he exhibited a "View of Rome from
the Aventine Hill," and the "Burning of the House of Lords and Commons," which last was almost
entirely painted on the walls of the exhibition. At this time it was the custom to have what
were called "varnishing days" at the exhibition, during which time artists retouched, and finished
up their pictures. They were periods of fun and practical jokes, and Turner always enjoyed,
and made the most of them. He frequently sent his canvas to the Academy merely sketched out
and grounded, and then coming in as early as four in the morning on varnishing days, he would
put his nose to the sketch and work steadily with thousands of imperceptible touches until
nightfall, while his picture would begin to glow as by magic. About this time he exhibited
many pictures founded on classical subjects, or with the scenes laid in Italy or Greece, as
"Apollo and Daphne in the Vale of Tempe," "Regulus Leaving Rome to Return to Carthage," the
"Parting of Hero and Leander," "Phryne Going to the Public Baths as Venus," the "Banishment
of Ovid from Rome, with Views of the Bridge and Castle of St. Angelo." A year later he exhibited
pictures of "Ancient Rome," a vast dreamy pile of palaces, and "Modern Rome," with a view of
the "Forum in Ruins."

One of the most celebrated of Turner's pictures was that of the "Old Téméraire," an old and
famous line-of-battle ship, which in the battle of Trafalgar ran in between and captured the
French frigates Redoubtable and Fougueux. Turner saw the Téméraire in the Thames after she
had become old, and was condemned to be dismantled. The scene is laid at sunset, when the smouldering,
red light is vividly reflected on the river, and contrasts with the quiet, gray and pearly
tints about the low-hung moon. The majestic old ship looms up through these changing lights,
bathed in splendor. The artist refused a large price for this picture by Mr. Lennox, of New
York, and finally bequeathed it to the nation. In 1840 Turner exhibited the "Bacchus and Ariadne,"
two marine scenes, and two views in Venice; also the well-known "Slavers Throwing Overboard
the Dead and Dying, a Typhoon Coming On" (Fig. 76), which is now in the Museum of Fine Arts
of Boston. Of this picture Thackeray says: "I don't know whether it is sublime or ridiculous."

No painter of modern times, or perhaps of any time, has ever provoked the discussion of his
merits which Turner did. When he was at his best his great merits and his originality procured
for him the strongest defenders, and finally brought his pictures into favor with the wealthy
middle class of England, so that he obtained high prices, and since his death these prices
have doubled, and even quadrupled. At a sale of Mr. Bicknell's collection in 1836, ten of Turner's
pictures, which had been bought for three thousand seven hundred and forty-nine pounds, were
sold for seventeen thousand and ninety-four pounds. As Turner grew older and his manner deteriorated
he was assailed by the wits, the art critics, and the amateurs with cruel badinage, and to
these censures Turner was morbidly sensitive. But even Ruskin admits that the pictures of his
last five years are of "wholly inferior value," with unsatisfactory foliage, chalky faces,
and general indications of feebleness of hand.

Wornum, in his Epochs of Painting, said: "In the last ten years of his career, and occasionally
before, Turner was extravagant to an extreme degree; he played equally with nature and with
his colors. Light, with all its prismatic varieties, seems to have been the chief object of
his studies; individuality of form or color he was wholly indifferent to. The looseness of
execution in his latest works has not even the apology of having been attempted on scientific
principles; he did not work upon a particular point of a picture as a focus and leave the rest
obscure, as a foil to enhance it, on a principle of unity; on the contrary, all is equally
obscure and wild alike. These last productions are a calamity to his reputation; yet we may,
perhaps, safely assert that since Rembrandt there has been no painter of such originality and
power as Turner." Dr. Waagen says in his Treasury of Art in Great Britain: "No landscape painter
has yet appeared with such versatility of talent. His historical landscapes exhibit the most
exquisite feeling for beauty of hues and effect of lighting, at the same time that he has the
power of making them express the most varied moods of nature."

Toward the last part of his life Turner's peculiarities increased; he became more morose, more
jealous. He was always unwilling to have even his most intimate friends visit his studio, but
he finally withdrew from his own house and home. Of late years he had frequently left his house
for months at a time, and secreted himself in some distant quarter, taking care that he should
not be followed or known. When the great Exhibition of 1851 opened, Turner left orders with
his housekeeper that no one should be admitted to see his pictures. For twenty years the rain
had been streaming in upon them through the leaky roof, and many were hopelessly ruined. He
sent no pictures to the exhibition of that year, and he was hardly to be recognized when he
appeared in the gallery. Finally his prolonged absence from the Academy meetings alarmed his
friends; but no one dared seek him out. His housekeeper alone, of all that had known him, had
the interest to hunt up the old artist. Taking a hint from a letter in one of his coats, she
went to Chelsea, and, after careful search, found his hiding-place, with but one more day of
life in him. It is said that, feeling the need of purer air than that of Queen Anne Street,
he went out to Chelsea and found an eligible, little cottage by the side of the river, with
a railed-in roof whence he could observe the sky. The landlady demanded references from the
shabby, old man, when he testily replied, "My good woman, I'll buy the house outright." She
then demanded his name--"in case, sir, any gentleman should call, you know." "Name?" said he,
"what's your name?" "My name is Mrs. Booth." "Then I am Mr. Booth." And so he was known, the
boys along the river-side calling him "Puggy Booth," and the tradesmen "Admiral Booth," the
theory being that he was an old admiral in reduced circumstances. In a low studded, attic room,
poorly furnished, with a single roof window, the great artist was found in his mortal sickness.
He sent for his favorite doctor from Margate, who frankly told him that death was at hand.
"Go down stairs," exclaimed Turner, "take a glass of sherry, and then look at me again." But
no stimulant could change the verdict of the physician. An hour before he died he was wheeled
to the window for a last look at the Thames, bathed in sunshine and dotted with sails. Up to
the last sickness the lonely, old man rose at daybreak to watch, from the roof of the cottage,
the sun rise and the purple flush of the coming day. The funeral, from the house in Queen Anne
Street, was imposing, with a long line of carriages, and conducted with the ritual of the English
Church in St. Paul's Cathedral. Dean Milman read the service, and at its conclusion the coffin
was borne to the catacombs, and placed between the tombs of James Barry and Sir Joshua Reynolds.
Turner's will, with its codicils, was so confused and vague that the lawyers fought it in the
courts for four years, and it was finally settled by compromise. The real estate went to the
heir-at-law, the pictures and drawings to the National Gallery, one thousand pounds for a monument
in St. Paul's Cathedral, and twenty thousand pounds to the Royal Academy for annuities to poor
artists. Turner's gift to the British nation included ninety-eight finished paintings and two
hundred and seventy pictures in various stages of progress. Ruskin, while arranging and classifying
Turner's drawings, found more than nineteen thousand sketches and fragments by the master's
hand, some covered with the dust of thirty years.

Sir DAVID WILKIE (1785-1841) has been called the "prince of British genre painters." His father
was a minister, and David was placed in the Trustees' Academy in Edinburgh in 1799. In 1805
he entered the Royal Academy in London, and was much noticed on account of his "Village Politicians,"
exhibited the next year. From this time his fame and popularity were established, and each
new work was simply a new triumph for him. The "Card Players," "Rent Day," the "Village Festival,"
and others were rapidly painted and exhibited.

In 1825 Wilkie went to the Continent, and remained three years. He visited France, Germany,
Italy, and Spain, and after his return he painted a new class of subjects in a new manner.
He made many portraits, and his other works were historical subjects. His most celebrated works
in this second manner were "John Knox Preaching," "Napoleon and the Pope at Fontainebleau,"
and "Peep-o'-Day Boy's Cabin." The portrait of the landscape painter William Daniell is a good
picture.

In 1830 Wilkie succeeded Sir Thomas Lawrence as painter to the king, as he had been limner
to the King of Scotland since 1822. He was not knighted until 1836. In 1840 he visited Constantinople,
and made a portrait of the sultan; he went then to the Holy Land and Egypt. While at Alexandria,
on his way home, Wilkie complained of illness, and on shipboard, off Gibraltar, he died, and
was buried at sea. This burial is the subject of one of Turner's pictures, and is now in the
National Gallery.

The name of Landseer is an important one in British art. JOHN LANDSEER (1761-1852) was an eminent
engraver; his son THOMAS (1795-1880) followed the profession of his father and arrived at great
celebrity in it. CHARLES, born in 1799, another son of John Landseer, became a painter and
devoted himself to a sort of historical genre line of subjects, such as "Cromwell at the House
of Sir Walter Stewart in 1651," "Surrender of Arundel Castle in 1643," and various others of
a like nature. Charles Landseer travelled in Portugal and Brazil when a young man; he was made
a member of the Royal Academy in 1845; from 1851 to 1871 he was keeper of the Academy, and
has been an industrious and respected artist. But the great genius of the family was:

Sir EDWIN LANDSEER (1802-1873), the youngest son of John Landseer, the engraver. He received
his first drawing lessons from his father, and from a very early age showed a great talent
for sketching and that love for the brute creation which have been his chief characteristics
as an artist. He had the power to understand his dumb subjects as well as if they spoke some
language together, and then he had the ability to fix the meaning of all they had told him
upon his canvas, by means of the sketching lines which gave the precise form of it all and
by his finishing shades which put in the expression. If his animals were prosperous and gladsome,
he represented their good fortune with hearty pleasure; if they were suffering, sad, or bereaved,
he painted their woes with a sympathy such as none but a true friend can give.

When Edwin and Thomas were old enough that their father thought other instruction than his
own should be given them, he placed them with Haydon, and in these early days the master predicted
that Edwin Landseer would be the Snyders of England. Edwin sent his first picture to the Royal
Academy when he was but thirteen years old, and during the following fifty-eight years there
were but six exhibitions to which he did not contribute. When he began his studies at the Royal
Academy he was fourteen years old, and already famous as an animal painter. He was a bright,
curly-headed, manly lad, and the aged Fuseli, then keeper of the Academy, grew to be very fond
of him; he would often ask, "Where is my little dog-boy?"

Edwin Landseer now worked on diligently and quietly; his works were constantly praised, and
he received all the patronage that he desired. Through the advice of his master, Haydon, he
had the habit of dissecting animals, and learning their anatomy with all the exactness with
which other artists study that of human beings. About 1820 a lion died in the Exeter Change
Menagerie, and Edwin Landseer secured the body for dissection. He then painted three large
pictures of lions, and during the year in which he became eighteen years old, he exhibited
these pictures and others of horses, dogs, donkeys, deer, goats, wolves, and vultures.

When nineteen, in 1821, he painted "Pointers, To-ho!" a hunting scene, which was sold in 1872,
the year before his death, for two thousand and sixteen pounds. In 1822 Landseer gained the
prize of the British Institution, one hundred and fifty pounds, by his picture of "The Larder
Invaded." He made the first sketch for this on a child's slate, which is still preserved as
a treasure. But the most famous of this master's early works is the "Cat's Paw," in which a
monkey uses a cat's paw to draw chestnuts from a hot stove. Landseer was paid one hundred pounds;
its present value is three thousand pounds, and it is kept at the seat of the Earl of Essex,
Cashiobury.

This picture of the "Cat's Paw" had an important result for the young artist, as it happened
that it was exhibited when Sir Walter Scott was in London, and he was so much pleased with
it that he made Landseer's acquaintance, and invited him to visit Abbotsford. Accordingly,
in 1824, Landseer visited Sir Walter in company with Leslie, who then painted a portrait of
the great novelist, which now belongs to the Ticknor family of Boston. Out of this visit came
a picture called "A Scene at Abbotsford," in which the dog Maida, so loved by Scott, was the
prominent figure; six weeks after it was finished the dog died.

At this time Sir Walter was not known as the author of the "Waverley Novels," but in later
years Landseer painted a picture which he called "Extract from a Journal whilst at Abbotsford,"
to which the following was attached: "Found the great poet in his study, laughing at a collie
dog playing with Maida, his favorite old greyhound, given him by Glengarry, and quoting Shakespeare--'Crabbed
old age and youth cannot agree.' On the floor was the cover of a proof-sheet, sent for correction
by Constable, of the novel then in progress. N. B.--This took place before he was the acknowledged
author of the 'Waverley Novels.'" Landseer early suspected Scott of the authorship of the novels,
and without doubt he came to this conclusion from what he saw at Abbotsford.

Landseer repeated his visits to Scotland for many years, and saw all parts of that country
at various seasons. From the time of his first visit there was a new feeling in his works--a
breadth and power was in them which he gained from nature, and a refinement and elevation which
he undoubtedly received from his friendship with Sir Walter and the impetus it gave him. He
also became so interested in the Gaelic people that he painted good pictures of them. At first
these men did not know what to make of a huntsman who would throw away his gun when fine game
appeared, and draw out pencils and paper to make pictures of what others were so eager to shoot.
This tendency made him a poor hunter; but he was intensely interested in the chase, and especially
in deer-stalking. He insisted that deer had intelligence, and the question was whether the
game or the hunter happened to have the superior mind. When in London the artist was a quiet,
society gentleman; but each year he broke away from all city habits, and went to the Highlands,
where he divided his days between the chase and painting portraits of his friends there with
their children and pets, or putting frescoes on the walls of their houses.

Landseer continued to live in his father's house long after he was a famous man. The senior
artist conducted all business matters--sold pictures, and took the money for them as if his
son was still a boy. At length, through the advice of a friend, Edwin Landseer removed to No.
1 St. John's Wood Road, to which he gave the name of Maida Vale; he enlarged, and improved
this home from time to time, and had no other for nearly fifty years.

In 1826 Landseer painted "Chevy Chase;" it was the only historical painting he ever did, and
still remains at Woburn Abbey, where it originally went. The animals in the picture are excellent
of course, but this sort of painting was not that in which Landseer showed his best. This year
of 1826 was an important one to this master. He was twenty-four years old, and was immediately
admitted an Associate of the Royal Academy. No one can be a candidate for this honor at a younger
age, and very few others have attained it so early. Before he was thirty Landseer was a full
member, and his diploma picture, "The Dead Warrior" is in the Royal Academy. But this year
saw a great change in his pictures, as may be seen in that of "The Chief's Return from Deer-stalking,"
which he sent to the next exhibition. It was free, broad, and effective beyond any previous
work, and this manner was his best. Many judges fix the year 1834 as the very prime in the
art of Landseer, and one of the works of that year, called "Bolton Abbey in the Olden Time,"
is very famous. It represents the vassals of the abbey bringing in their tributes of game,
fish, and fruits, which the jolly, old monks gladly receive.

There is no question but that Landseer's best pictures are of dogs, and we can but echo the
words of Hamerton when he says: "The best commentators on Landseer, the best defenders of his
genius, are the dogs themselves; and so long as there exist terriers, deer-hounds, blood-hounds,
his fame will need little assistance from writers on art."

Landseer had a long and happy intimacy with Queen Victoria and the royal family. He painted
portraits of the various members of the queen's household in all possible ways, with dogs and
on horseback, in fancy dress and hunting costume--in short, these portraits are far too numerous
to be mentioned in detail. Ever after 1835 Landseer was called upon to paint pictures of the
pets of the royal family, and these works became very numerous. While he was thus favored as
an artist he was also a friend of the queen and her immediate family; he was often summoned
to play billiards with Prince Albert. The queen's Journal of Life in the Highlands frequently
mentions him, and we are sure that if we could read Landseer's diary it would tell us many
interesting things of the queen and her family. Naturally it followed that an artist thus favored
by the queen would be patronized by the nobility, and it is true that much of Landseer's time,
both as an artist and as a gentleman of society, was passed in the company of people of the
highest positions in Great Britain; and with the one exception of Sir Joshua Reynolds, no artist
in England was ever visited by so many people of rank. His house was really a social centre,
and no one felt above accepting his hasty invitations to his parties, which were almost always
gotten up on an impulse and the guests invited at the last possible moment.

Among Landseer's friends were Dickens and Thackeray, and Sydney Smith was very fond of the
artist; and it is said that when the great wit was asked to sit to Landseer for his portrait,
he replied in the words of the haughty Syrian: "Is thy servant a dog that he should do this thing?"

When at his best Landseer had a facility in drawing and painting that was marvellous. He could
draw two entirely different objects at the same moment, his left hand being equally skilful
with the right. He was seen to draw a horse's head with one hand and a stag's head with antlers
at exactly the same time--and this at an evening party to prove that it could be done. He once
sent to an exhibition a picture of rabbits under which he wrote, "Painted in three-quarters
of an hour." He painted a life-size picture of a fallow-deer in three hours, and it required
no retouching. One of his comrades said: "Sir Edwin has a fine hand, a correct eye, refined
perceptions, and can do almost anything but dance on the slack wire. He is a fine billiard
player, plays at chess, sings when with his intimate friends, and has considerable humor."

We have passed over the best and most pleasant part of the life of this great painter, for
in 1840 he had an attack of illness from which he never recovered. He travelled, and endeavored
in every way to go on with his work; but he was always subject to attacks of depression which
were sometimes so serious that his friends feared loss of reason. Of course there was a different
tone in his works--a seriousness and pathos, and at times a religious element, which was very
acceptable to some persons, and he gained admirers where he had not found them before. But
it can scarcely be said that his last days were his best days, though he executed some famous
pictures.

In 1866 he exhibited a model of a stag at bay which was afterward cast in bronze. The lions
at the base of the Nelson monument in Trafalgar Square may be called the work of Sir Edwin,
for he modelled one of the colossal beasts from which the others were formed with but slight
changes, and the whole were cast under the care of Baron Marochetti.

In 1872 he painted "The Font," which is a religious subject. It represents the sheep and lambs
of the Gospel gathering round a font, upon the edge of which are doves. A rainbow spans the
sky; on the sides of the font are a mask of the face of Christ and the symbols of the Atonement.
This is a painful picture, for while it is exquisite in conception its execution shows the
weakness of the painter, who so soon after he made it was released from all his darkness and
suffering.

Sir Edwin Landseer was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral with all the honors which his genius
and character merited. His works are known to almost every child in America by means of the
engravings which have been made from them. His brother Thomas engraved hundreds of the designs
of Edwin and made them popular all over the world, and a large part of this success was due
to the skill and sympathy which Thomas devoted to what was largely a work of love. Of course
many other engravers have worked after Landseer, and almost all his pictures have been reproduced
in one style of engraving or another.

There are nine portraits of Sir Edwin Landseer in existence--one by J. Hayter when Landseer
was thirteen years old and is represented as a cricketer; one painted a year later by Leslie,
in which Edwin Landseer is the Rutland in the work called "Henry VI." It is owned by the Philadelphia
Academy. The next were not made until 1843, when Count d'Orsay painted two portraits of him;
in 1830 Dupper had made a drawing, and in 1835 a photograph was taken; Baron Marochetti made
a bust portrait of Landseer which is in the Royal Academy, and in his picture called the "Connoisseurs"
Sir Edwin painted his own portrait, with dogs on each side who stand as critics of his work.
This was painted in 1865.

Sir Edwin Landseer left an estate of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds, and the works unsold
at his death brought about seventy thousand pounds. His will made but a few bequests, and the
remainder of this large sum was divided between his brother and three sisters. With the account
of Sir Edwin I shall close the account of painters given in this volume.

We have seen how few actual remains of the painting of ancient nations are now in existence.
Almost nothing is left even from the times of the Greeks; in truth, there is more upon the
tombs of Egypt than in the land of Hellas. We read accounts of classic painting which arouse
our deepest interest one moment, only to remember in the next that we can see but the merest
scraps of all this wealth of beauty which moved the cultured Greeks to write of it with such
enthusiasm.

After the days of classic art we have endeavored to trace painting through a period when it
could scarcely be termed an art, so little of it was done, and that little was so far below
our ideal. Again, this decline was followed by a Renaissance--an awakening--and from that day
in the fourteenth century when the Madonna of Cimabue was carried in triumph through the streets
of Florence, this art moved on with progressive steps until Michael Angelo, Leonardo, Raphael,
Titian, and others highly gifted, had set up the standards which have remained as beacons and
guides to all the world.

In tracing this progress we have seen that Italy, the German nations, Spain, France, and England
have all striven to dream dreams of beauty and grandeur, of tenderness and love, and to fix
them in fitting colors where all the world could see them.

The past is always fascinating. No stories are so pleasantly begun as those that say, "A long
time ago there lived," etc. One can have the most complete satisfaction in the study of what
has happened so far in the past that we can see all its effects and judge of it by the tests
which time is sure to bring to everything. It is such a study that has been made in these pages,
and I would suggest that it has a second use scarcely less important than the study of history--that
is, the preparation it affords for judging of what is done in the present. A knowledge of what
has been achieved enables us by comparison to decide upon the merits of new works.

The painting of to-day offers an immense field for investigation. When we remember that five
centuries ago the painters of the world could be counted by tens, and are told that now there
is an average of twenty-five hundred painters in some foreign cities, we see that a lifetime
is scarcely sufficient in which to study the painting of our own era.

Have we not reason to hope that works are now being produced which shall be studied and admired
in the future as we study and admire those of the past? Is it not true that the artistic works
of any period show forth the spirit of the time? If, then, the close of the Dark Ages and the
dawn of a better life could bring forth the treasures which remain from those days, what ought
to be the result of the more universal learning and the advancing civilization of the nineteenth
century? And so, in leaving this book, I hope that it may be useful to all who read it for
one purpose that I have suggested or the other; either to present an outline of what has been
done in the past, or aid in the understanding of the painting of the present.

INDEX.

BY L. E. JONES.

"Abraham and the Three Angels" (Navarrete), 211

Academia Leonardi Vinci, 87

Adams, John, portrait by Copley, 264

Adams, Samuel, portrait by Copley, 264

"Adoration of the Kings" (Vinci), 89

"Adoration of the Shepherds" (Velasquez), 216

"Agrippina Weeping over the Urn of Germanicus" (West), 265

Albani, Francesco, 148

"Aldobrandini Marriage," 27

Alexander the Great, portrait by Apelles, 18

Allen, James, portrait by Copley, 264

Allston, portrait of West, 266

"Analysis of Beauty" (Hogarth), 254

Ancient painting, 1-40

"Ancient Rome" (Turner), 287

Andalusia school of painting, 213

Angelico, Fra, 72-78

Animal painters--
  Snyders and Fyt, 167;
  Potter, 187;
  Landseer, 293

Anne of Cleves, portrait by Holbein, 190

"Annunciation" (Titian), 127

Apelles, 18-20, 40

"Apollo and Daphne in the Vale of Tempe" (Turner), 287

Apollodorus, 13-14

"Archangel Michael" (Raphael), 114

Architecture, a fine art, 1;
  more advanced than painting among Oriental nations, 12;
  development of Greek, from Egyptian and Assyrian, 13;
  during the Romanesque period, 150.
  See also Gothic

Ariosto, portrait by Bassano, 132

Aristides, 17

Assisi, wall-paintings of Cimabue in Upper Church at, 62;
  frescoes of Giotto in Lower Church at, 66

Assyrian painting, 9-11

Augsburg Cathedral contains earliest painted windows, 51

Augsburg school of art, 188

Augustine, St., quoted, 2

"Aurora" (Guido Reni), 145

Avignon, the Vernet Gallery at, 247

Babylonian painting, 11-13

"Bacchus and Ariadne" (Titian), 124

"Bacchus and Ariadne" (Turner), 288

Balen, Henry van, 168

"Banishment of Ovid from Rome" (Turner), 287

"Baptism of Christ," 84-86

Barbarelli, Giorgio, 118-120

Bartolommeo, Fra, 93-94;
  and Raphael, 110

Bartolozzi, engraved pictures of Angelica Kauffman, 206

Bas-reliefs in Egyptian painting, 3-5

Bassano family, 132

"Bathing Soldiers" (Michael Angelo), 108

"Battle of the Standard" (Vinci), 108

Bazzi, or Razzi, 118

"Beauties at Hampton Court" (Lely), 251

"Beggar Boy" (Velasquez), 216

"Beggar Boy Munching a Piece of Pastry" (Velasquez), 216

Belgium. See Flanders

"Bella, La" (Titian), 124

"Belle Ferronière, La" (Vinci), 87

"Belle Jardinière, La" (Raphael), 110

Bellini, Gentile, 80-81

Bellini, Giovanni, 80, 81-82;
  and Titian, 123;
  and Dürer, 197

Bellini, Jacopo, 80

Bellotti, Bernardo, 153

Beltraffio, Giovanni Antonio, 93

Bembo, Pietro, epitaph on Raphael, 116

"Benci, Ginevra" (Vinci), 89

Bentivoglio, Cardinal, and Vandyck, 171

Benvenuti, Lorenzo, 153

Bernardo di Daddo, 69

Berreguette, Alonzo, 208-209

Bertoldo, 96-97

"Birth of John the Baptist" (Dürer), 198

"Birth of the Virgin Mary," 58

Blucher, portrait by Lawrence, 270

Boleyn, Anne, and Holbein, 189

Bologna school, 71, 82

"Bolton Abbey in the Olden Time" (Landseer), 298

"Bonaparte on the Bridge of Arcola" (Gros), 242

Borgia, Cæsar, appoints Da Vinci engineer, 90

Borgognone, Ambrogio, 93

Both, Jan and Andries, 187

Botticelli, Sandro, 79

Bourdon, Sebastian, 238

Bowditch, N. I., quoted, 261

"Boy with a Squirrel" (Copley), 261

Boylston, Miss Rebecca, portrait by Copley, 260

Brattle, General William, portrait by Copley, 260

Brauwer, Adrian, 178

Brenghel, Jan, 162

Brenghel, Pieter, 162

Bril, Paul, 162

"Broken Jug" (Greuze), 240

Brunn, cited, 21

"Bull, The" (Potter), 187

Burch, Bishop Van der, and Vandyck, 172

Burgkmair, Hans, instructor of Holbein, 189

Burial-places, mediæval paintings in, 41.
  See also Catacombs

"Burning of the House of Lords and Commons" (Turner), 287

Byron's Works illustrated by Turner, 286

"Calumny" (Apelles), 19

Calvert, Denis, instructor of Domenichino, 141

Cammuccini, Vincenzio, 153

Canaletto, 153

Cano, Alonso, 230-232

Canova, designed a monument for Titian, 128;
  portrait by Lawrence, 271

"Cantarilla de Miel, La" (Utande), 212

"Capitoline Doves," 34

"Caprices" (Goya), 233

Caracci, Annibale, 140;
  quoted on Correggio, 135;
  on Domenichino, 141;
  instructor of Guido Reni, 143

Caracci family and school, 140

Caravaggio, 150

"Card Players" (Wilkie), 292

Carew, Thomas, portrait by Vandyck, 174

Carreño, Juan de, 211-212

Carvings of Dürer, 198

Casa Grande, the home of Titian, 126

Castelfranco, altar-piece painted by Giorgione, 119

Castile school of painting, 208

Castillo, Juan de, instructor of Murillo, 221

Catacombs, paintings of, 42-45

"Cato of Utica" (Ribera), 151

"Cat's Paw" (Landseer), 295

Celtic illuminated MSS., early, 49

Cenci, Beatrice, portrait by Guido Reni, 145-147

Cennino, quoted, 68

Central period of Middle Ages.
  See Romanesque

Cespedes, Pablo de, 213-214

Charles I., and Rubens, 164;
  and Vandyck, 172-173;
  portraits by Vandyck, 174;
  and Dobson, 249

Charles II. and Lely, 251

Charles IV. and Goya, 232

Charles V., and Titian, 124, 126-127;
  and Dürer, 199-201;
  and Berreguette, 209

Charles X., and Gros, 242;
  and Vernet, 246

Chartres Cathedral, glass-painting in, 53

"Chevy Chase" (Landseer), 296-298

"Chief's (The) Return from Deer-stalking" (Landseer), 298

Christ, paintings by Joanes of, 229

"Christ Bearing the Cross" (Morales), 210

"Christ Blessing Little Children" (Rembrandt), 186

"Christ Crowned with Thorns" (Morales), 210

"Christ Healing the Sick" (West), 266

"Christ in Glory" (Correggio), 134

Christian art. See Early

Church decoration in Gothic period of Middle Ages, 60

Cimabue, G., 61-64

Cistercian monks, painted windows in churches of, 54

Clay used by Babylonian tile-painters, 12

Clement VII., portrait by Titian, 124

Club of St. Luke founded by Vandyck, 173

Coello, Alonso Sanchez, 210

Coello, Claudio, 208, 212-213

"Collocation of the Host" (Coello), 213

Cologne school of art, 188

Colonna, Vittoria, friendship with Michael Angelo, 103

Colors, Egyptian rules for use of, 5-7;
  in Assyrian paintings, 11;
  in Pompeian wall-paintings, 32;
  in illumination, 47;
  Raphael's skill in, 110;
  discoveries by Hubert van Eyck in use of, 156

"Communion of St. Jerome" (Domenichino), 141

"Condemnation of Marie Antoinette" (Delaroche), 242

Consalvi, Cardinal, portrait by Lawrence, 271

Cook's "Southern Coast," illustrated by Turner, 282

Cooper, Samuel, 249

Copley, John Singleton, 259-264

"Copley Family" (Copley), 264

Corday, Charlotte, portrait by Goya, 233

Cornaro, Caterina, portrait by Titian, 124

Correggio, 132-139

"Cottage Door" (Gainsborough), 258

"Cottage Girl" (Gainsborough), 258

Court influence upon art during Romanesque period, 50

Coxie, Michael, copies Van Eyck's altar-piece for Philip I., 156

Cranach, Lucas, 202

"Cromwell at the House of Sir Walter Stewart" (Landseer), 293

"Cromwell Contemplating the Remains of Charles I." (Delaroche), 242

Cromwell's directions to Lely for painting his portrait, 251

Crucifixion as represented by Giotto, 68-69

"Crucifixion" (Fra Angelico), 75-76

"Crucifixion" (Tintoretto), 130

"Crucifixion" (Vandyck), 169, 171

"Crucifixion of St. Peter" (Bourdon), 238

Cunningham, Allan, quoted, 267

Cupid, statue of, by Michael Angelo, 98-99

Curran, portrait by Lawrence, 270

Cuyp, Albert, 186-187

Damophilos, 21

"Danäe" (Titian), 129

Dance, George, portrait of Turner, 279

"Dance of Death" (Holbein), 192-193

Daniell, William, portrait by Wilkie, 293

Dante, portrait by Giotto, 64-66;
  and Michael Angelo, 103

Dante's "Inferno," painting by Delacroix of scene from, 245

David, Jacques Louis, 240-242

"David" (Michael Angelo), 99

"Dead Warrior, The" (Landseer), 298

"Death of the Duke of Guise" (Delaroche), 242, 244

"Death of Lord Chatham" (Copley), 262

"Death of Wolfe" (Romney), 267

"Death of Wolfe" (West), 266

"Decline of the Carthaginian Empire" (Turner), 282

"Decoration of a Roof," 44-45

Delacroix, Eugene, 244-245

Delaroche, Paul, 242

"Demeter Enthroned," 34

"Descent from the Cross" (Ribera), 151

"Descent from the Cross" (Volterra), 104

"Dido Building Carthage" (Turner), 282

"Dionysus, or Bacchus" (Aristides), 17

"Discovery of the Herb Mandragora," 47-48

Dobson, William, 249-251;
  and Vandyck, 173

"Dodwell Vase (The)," 38

Domenichino, 141-143;
  and Poussin, 234

Dorian school of Sikyon, 15-17

Dow, Gerhard, 181

Drawing first regularly taught in Sikyon school, 17

"Drunken Bacchus" (Michael Angelo), 99

Duccio, 64

Dupper, portrait of Landseer, 301

Dürer, Albert, 193-202

Dutch. See Holland

Early Christian art, 41, 42-49

Early period of Middle Ages. See Early Christian art

Eastern. See Oriental

Eclectics of the seventeenth century, 140

"Edward the Confessor" (Mortimer), 267

Edward III., paintings by West from the life of, 266

Eeckhout, Gerbrandt van der, 186

Eginhard, 49

Egyptian mosaics, 36

Egyptian painting, 3-9

"Ehrenbreitstein" (Turner), 287

Ekphantos, 21

Encaustic paintings of Nikias, 18

England, painting in, 249-303;
  glass-painting in, 53;
  wall-painting in, 60

"England and Wales" (Turner), 282

Engravings, by Rembrandt, 185;
  by Dürer, 194, 198;
  by Hogarth, 254.
  See also Etchings

"Entombment of Christ" (Caravaggio), 150

"Entombment of Christ" (Titian), 128-129

Erasmus and Holbein, 189

Escorial, Giordano painted walls of, 213

Etching, Rembrandt's use of, 182

Etchings, of Salvator Rosa, 152;
  of Teniers, 180;
  of Rembrandt, 186

Etruscan tombs, decorated with mural paintings, 23;
  stone-paintings found in, 36

Etruscans introduced painting into Italy from Greece, 13, 20-21

Euphranor, 17

"Extract from a Journal whilst at Abbotsford" (Landseer), 295

Eyck, Hubert van, 155-156

Eyck, Jan van, 156-158

Eyck, Lambert van, 158

Eyck, Margaretha van, 158

Faes, Peter van der, 251

"False Players" (Caravaggio), 150

"Family of Darius" (Veronese), 131

"Family Picture" (Copley), 262

Farnesina Villa, frescoes by Raphael in, 111

Farrari, Gaudenzio, 93

Fawkes, H., friend and patron of Turner, 277

"Feast of Rose Garlands" (Dürer), 197

Fernandez, Louis, 221

Ferrara, Duke of, and Titian, 124

"Field of Eylau" (Gros), 242

"Fifth Plague of Egypt" (Turner), 278-279

Figure-painting in ancient Greece, 20

Final period of Middle Ages. See Gothic

"Five Senses" (Teniers), 180

Flanders, painting in, 155-176

"Flaying of St. Bartholomew" (Ribera), 151

"Flemish Kermes" (Teniers), 180

"Flora" (Titian), 124

Florentine school, 72-80, 93

Fonesca, portrait by Velasquez, 216

"Font, The" (Landseer), 300

Foreshortening of Correggio, 134

"Fortune Teller" (Caravaggio), 150

"Four Apostles, The" (Dürer), 201

France, painting in, 234-248;
  glass-painting in, 51.
  See also Gaul

Francia, Francisco, 82-83

Francis I., and Da Vinci, 90-92;
  and Sarto, 105;
  and Raphael, 114

"Francis I. and Charles V. Visiting the Tombs at St. Denis" (Gros), 242

Franconian school, 193

Frederick Henry, Prince, scenes from the life of, painted by Jordaens, 167

Fuseli, and Angelica Kauffman, 204;
  and Landseer, 294

Fyt, Jan, 167

Gaddi, A., 69

Gaddi, T., 69

Gainsborough, Thomas, 258

"Gamba, La" (Vargas), 213

Gardiner, quoted, 260

Gardiner, Miss Rebecca, portrait by Copley, 260

Gargasos, 21

Garrick, David, epitaph on Hogarth, 254

Gaul, miniature-painting in, 49

George III., and West, 265;
  and Lawrence, 270

Géricault, Jean Louis, 244

German illuminated MSS., early, 49

Germany, painting in, 188-206;
  glass-painting in, 51;
  wall-painting in, 60

Gelée, Claude. See Lorraine

Ghirlandajo, Domenico, 79-80, 96

Giordano, Luca, 213

Giorgione, 118-120;
  and Titian, 123

Giotteschi, 69

Giotto di Bondone, 64-69

"Girl and Pigs" (Gainsborough), 258

Girtin, Tom, 274

Glass-painting, 51-54, 58-60

"Glykera" (Pausias), 17

Goes, Hugo van der, 158

Goethe, quoted, 205

Goldsmith, Oliver, and Reynolds, 258

Gomez, Sebastian, 228-229

Gongora, portrait by Velasquez, 216

Gonzaga, Giulia, portraits by Piombo, 120

Gothic architecture,
  its influence upon painting and sculpture in Middle Ages, 54;
  its influence upon glass-painting, 58

Gothic period of Middle Ages, 42, 54-71

Gower family, portraits by Romney, 267

Goya y Lucientes, Francisco, 232-233

Goyen, Jan van, 187

Gozzoli, Benozzo, 80

"Graces Decorating a Statue of Hymen" (Reynolds), 257

Granacci, Francisco, 80, 96

Great Book of the Hours, illumination of, 58

Greek painting, ancient, 13-34, 40;
  on stone, 36

Greuze, Jean-Baptiste, 239-240

Grimm, quoted, 100-101

Grisaille glass, 54

Gros, Antoine Jean, 242

Guardi, Francesco, 153

Guérin, instructor of Géricault, 244;
  of Delacroix, 245

Guido, Tommaso, 78-79

Guido of Siena, 64

Guido Reni, 143-148

Guilds among painters in Gothic period of Middle Ages, 56

Hals, Franz, 177;
  and Vandyck, 169

Hamerton, on Turner, 286;
  on Landseer, 298

Hamilton, Lady, portraits by Romney, 267-268

"Hamlet and Ophelia" (West), 266

"Harlot's Progress" (Hogarth), 252

Haydon, instructor of Landseer, 294

Hayman, Francis, instructor of Gainsborough, 258

Hayter, J., portrait of Landseer, 301

"Heidelberg Castle in the Olden Time" (Turner), 287

Hellenic school, 18

"Hemicycle" (Delaroche), 242-244

Henrietta Maria, Queen, portraits by Vandyck, 174

"Henry I.," 54-55

Henry III. and Titian, 127

Henry VIII. and Holbein, 189-192

Hercules, statue of, by Michael Angelo, 98

Herrera, Francisco de, 212, 214-215, 216

Hobbema, Mindert, 188

Hogarth, William, 252-254

Holbein, Hans, 188-193

Holland, painting in, 176-188;
  fidelity to detail, 11

"Holy Family" (Vandyck), 169-170

Honthorst, Gerard, 180

Hooge, Pieter de, 181

Houssaye, A., 92

Hudson, instructor of Reynolds, 255

"Hundred Guilders Print" (Rembrandt), 186

Illumination of MSS., 41, 46-49, 58

Illustrations used in Egyptian papyrus rolls, 8

"Immaculate Conception" (Murillo), 224, 225-227, 228

Inquisition, its influence on Spanish painting, 207-208

Intaglios in Egyptian painting, 6

Interiors, Dutch painters of, 180-181

Ionian school, 15

Ireland, miniature-painting in ancient, 49

Isabella, Empress, portrait by Titian, 127

Isabella, Infanta, sends Rubens to Spain, 164

Isabella of Portugal, portrait by Jan van Eyck, 156

Italy, painting in, 13-34, 40, 72-154

"Ixion on the Wheel" (Ribera), 151

Jameson, Mrs., quoted, 119

Joanes, Vicente de, 229

"John Knox Preaching" (Wilkie), 293

Johnson, Samuel, and Sir Joshua Reynolds, 255

Jonah, statue of, modelled by Raphael, 115

Jordaens, Jacob, 167-168

Julius II., Pope, and Michael Angelo, 99-100;
  and Raphael, 111

"Julius II., Tomb of," (Michael Angelo), 100, 101

"Justinian, Theodora, and Attendants," 45-46

Justus of Ghent, 158

Kauffman, Angelica, 203-206

"King David," 51

Kneller, Sir Godfrey, 251-252

"Knight (The), Death, and the Devil" (Dürer), 202

Kugler, quoted, 129

Landseer, Charles, 293

Landseer, Sir Edwin, 293-301

Landseer, John, 293

Landseer, Thomas, 293

Landscape-painting, in ancient Greece, 20;
  in ancient Rome, 27-29;
  in Holland, 186-187

"Larder Invaded" (Landseer), 295

"Large Holy Family of the Louvre" (Raphael), 114

"Last Judgment" (Michael Angelo), 101

"Last Supper" (Vinci), 87-89, 92

"Last Supper" (Titian), 211

"Last Supper" (Cespedes), 214

Last Supper, paintings by Joanes of, 229-230

Lastman, Pieter, 181

"Laughing Peasant" (Velasquez), 216

Lawrence, Sir Thomas, 269-271;
  portrait of West, 266

"Lear" (West), 266

Le Brun, Charles, 238

Lee, Colonel and Mrs., portraits by Copley, 260

Lely, Sir Peter, 251

Leo X., and Da Vinci, 90;
  and Raphael, 111;
  and Titian, 124

Leonardo da Vinci, 84-93

Leopold William, Archduke, portrait by Teniers, 179

Leslie, portrait of West, 266;
  portrait by Landseer, 301

Le Sueur, Eustache, 238

"Liber Fluviorum" (Turner), 286

"Liber Studiorum" (Turner), 280

"Liber Veritatis" (Claude Lorraine), 237

"Line-fishing off Hastings" (Turner), 287

Lippi, Fillipino, 79

Lippi, Filippo, 79

"Little Girl with a Lap Dog in her Arms" (Greuze), 240

Lombard school, 93

"Lomellini Family" (Vandyck), 171

"Lorelei Twilight" (Turner), 278

Lorenzo di Credi, 79

Lorraine, Claude, 236-238

Louis XII. and Da Vinci, 90

Louis XIII. and Poussin, 234-236

Louis XIV., and Le Brun, 238;
  and Mignard, 239;
  portraits by Rigaud, 239

Louis XV. and Vernet, 240

Louis Philippe and Vernet, 246

Lübke, quoted, 82, 237

"Lucretia" (Rembrandt), 186

Ludius, 21-23

Luini, Bernardino, 93

Luther, Dürer's admiration for, 201

Madonna del Sacco (Sarto), 107

"Madonna della Gran Duca" (Raphael), 108

"Madonna di San Francesco" (Correggio), 134

"Madonna di San Francesco" (Sarto), 107

"Madonna Enthroned" (Cimabue), 62

Madonnas of Fra Bartolommeo, 93

Madonnas of Raphael, 110

Madonnas of Elisabetta Sirani, 148

"Maids of Honor" (Velasquez), 218

Mannerists, 139-140

Mansfield, Lord, portrait by Copley, 263

Mantegna, Andrea, 82, 132

Mantua, Duke of, a patron of Rubens, 162-164

Manuscripts. See Illumination

Margaritone of Arezzo, 64

Marochetti, Baron, portrait of Landseer, 301

"Marriage at Cana" (Veronese), 131

"Marriage à la Mode" (Hogarth), 252

"Marriage of St. Catharine" (Coello), 210

"Mars, Venus, and Vulcan" (Copley), 259-260

"Martyrdom of St. Andrew" (Utande), 212

"Martyrdom of St. Lawrence" (Titian), 127

Masaccio, 78-79

Maso, 69

Masolino, 78-79

"Massacre of the Innocents" (Volterra), 104

Matsys, Quintin, 161

Maximilian, Emperor, and Dürer, 198-199

Mazzuoli, Francesco, 139

Mediæval painting, 41-71

Medici, Lorenzo de, patron of Michael Angelo, 96-97

"Medusa's Head" (Vinci), 86

Meire, Gerard van der, 158

Memling, Hans, 160-161

Memorial windows, origin of, 58

Mengs, Raphael, 153

"Meniñas, Las" (Velasquez), 218

Metsu, Gabriel, 181

"Meyer Madonna" (Holbein), 192

Michael Angelo, 94-104;
  his frescoes of Sistine Chapel, 112;
  and Raphael, 115;
  and Piombo, 120-121

Middle Ages. See Mediæval

Mignard, Pierre, 238-239

Milan, Academia Leonardi Vinci, 87

Miniaturists in England, 249.
  See also Illumination

"Miracle of St. Mark" (Tintoretto), 130

Miranda, Juan Carreño de, 211-212

Modena school, 71

"Modern Rome" (Turner), 287

"Mona Lisa" (Vinci), 89-90

Morales, Luis de, 209-210

More, Sir Thomas, portraits by Holbein, 189

Morland, George, 268

"Morning Among the Corriston Fells" (Turner), 277

Moro, Antonio, 162

Mosaics, found in ancient Italy, 34-36;
  of the Middle Ages, 41, 45-46;
  none by early Germans or Celts left, 49;
  transparent, 51

"Moses," 42-44

Mountfort, Dr. de, portrait by Copley, 259

"Mouth of the Seine" (Turner), 284

Mural paintings, Egyptian, 3;
  Assyrian, 9;
  Oriental, 13;
  Pompeian, 15;
  ancient Greek, 20;
  of Ludius, 21;
  ancient Italian, 23-24;
  mosaics as, 35;
  in catacombs, 44-45;
  no early German or Celtic left, 49;
  in Middle Ages, 60-61

Murillo, 220-228

"Napoleon and the Pope at Fontainebleau" (Wilkie), 293

Napoleon III., portrait by Horace Vernet, 247

"Nativity" (Navarrete), 211

"Nativity of the Saviour" (Correggio), 135

"Nativity of the Virgin" (Murillo), 224

Naturalists of the seventeenth century, 140, 150

Navarrete, Juan Fernandez, 211

"Navicella" (Giotto), 66

"Nest of Cupids," 34

Nicholas V., epitaph on Fra Angelico, 78

Nikias, 17-18

Nikomachos, 17

"Nile Mosaic (The)," 36

"Niobe," 36

Noort, Adam van, instructor of Rubens, 162;
  of Jordaens, 167

"Notte" (Correggio), 135

Nude paintings forbidden by Spanish Inquisition, 208

Nuremburg school, 193

"Old Téméraire" (Turner), 287-288

Ophem, Anna van, and Vandyck, 169

Oppert, J., quoted, 9, 11

Orcagna, Andrea, 70-71

"Orestes and Pylades" (West), 265

Oriental nations more advanced in architecture and sculpture
  than in painting, 2

Oriental origin of mosaics, 34

Orsay, Count d', portrait of Landseer, 301

Ostades, Van, 178

Outline drawing the best part of Egyptian painting, 7

Pacheco, Francisco, 208, 214, 216

Palma, Jacopo, 121

Panel-pictures, 23, 50-51, 60, 61

Papyrus rolls, Egyptian illustrations in, 8

"Paradise" (Tintoretto), 130

Pareja, Juan de, 220

Parmigianino, 139

Parrhasius, 14-15

"Parting of Hero and Leander" (Turner), 287

Paul III., portrait by Titian, 126

Pausias, 17

Pavement mosaics, 35-36

"Peep-o'-Day Boy's Cabin" (Wilkie), 293

Pelham, Charles, portrait by Copley, 259

Pembroke, Earl of. See Wilton Family

Perkins, A. T., quoted, 260

Perkins, C. C., quoted, 70

Perkins, Mrs. Edmund, portrait by Copley, 260

Perspective, unknown to Egyptians, 5;
  and to Oriental nations, 13;
  first used by Apollodorus, 14;
  its use in Middle Ages, 58;
  Turner's lectures on, 280-281

Perugino, Pietro, 82, 84, 107

Petrus, Christus, 158

Philip I., and Berreguette, 209;
  employs Coxie to copy Van Eyck's altar-piece, 156

Philip II., and Titian, 127;
  and Morales, 209;
  and Coello, 210;
  and Navarrete, 211

Philip IV., and Carreño, 212;
  and Zurbaran, 215;
  and Herrera, 215;
  and Velasquez, 216-218;
  and Cano, 231

Philip of Burgundy, employs Jan van Eyck, 156

Philip of Macedon, portraits by Apelles, 18

"Phryne Going to the Public Baths as Venus" (Turner), 287

"Pietà, La" (Michael Angelo), 99

Pirkheimer, Willibald, and Dürer, 195

"Plague at Jaffa" (Gros), 242

Pliny, quoted, 14, 21-23

"Pointers, To-ho!" (Landseer), 295

Pollajuolo, Antonio, 79

Ponte, Da, family, 132

"Portrait of Dante" (Giotto), 64-66

"Portrait of a Young Woman" (Rembrandt), 186

"Ports of England" (Turner), 282

Potter, Paul, 187

Pourbus, Frans, 162

Pourbus, Peter, 162

Poussin, Nicholas, 175, 234-236

"Presentation in the Temple" (Titian), 123

"Presentation of Christ in the Temple" (Cammuccini), 154

"Prodigal Son" (Teniers), 180

Protogenes, 19-20

"Provincial Antiquities of Scotland," illustrated by Turner, 282

"Purisima, La" (Joanes), 229

"Raising of Lazarus" (Piombo), 115

"Rake's Progress" (Hogarth), 252

Raphael, 107-118

Razzi, or Bazzi, 118

"Reading Magdalen" (Correggio), 135, 139

Redgrave, quoted, 277

"Regulus Leaving Rome to Return to Carthage" (Turner), 287

"Rejected Christ" (West), 266

Religious influence, upon Egyptian artists, 8-9;
  in Romanesque period, 50;
  in Gothic period, 56;
  upon Spanish painters, 207

Rembrandt, 181-186

Renaissance, 41, 72

"Rent Day" (Wilkie), 292

"Repulse and Defeat of the Spanish Floating Batteries
  at Gibraltar" (Copley), 262

Reynolds, Sir Joshua, 251-258;
  and Angelica Kauffman, 204;
  portrait of, 250;
  and Romney, 267

Ribalta, Francisco de, 230

Ribera, Giuseppe, 150-151

Ribera, Josef de, 230

Rigaud, Hyacinthe, 238, 239

Rincon, Antonio del, 207

Ritchie, Leitch, on Ruskin, 286-287

"Rivers of England" (Turner), 282

Robusti, Jacopo, 130

Robusti, Marietta, 130-131

Rogers's "Poems," illustrated by Turner, 286

Roman painting, ancient. See Italian

Roman school, 107

Romanesque period of Middle Ages, 42, 50-54

Romano, Giulio, 116, 118

Romney, George, 266-268

Rosselli, Cosimo, 80

Rossi, de, quoted, 204

"Rotello del Fico" (Vinci), 86

"Rotterdam Ferry-boat" (Turner), 284

Rubens, 162-167;
  and Vandyck, 168, 169;
  as an alchemist, 175;
  in England, 249

Rubrics, 47

Rupert, Prince, portraits by Vandyck, 174

Ruskin, on Turner, 280-281, 282, 283-284, 288

Ruysdael, Jacob, 187-188

Sacchi, Andrea, instructor of Poussin, 234

"Sacrifice of Iphigenia" (Timanthes), 15

"St. Anthony Adoring the Virgin and Child" (Sirani), 149

"St. Anthony of Padua" (Murillo), 224

"St. Cecilia" (Raphael), 118

"St. Clara of Assisi" (Murillo), 223

"St. Diego of Alcalá" (Murillo), 223

"St. Francis" (Murillo), 223

"St. George Slaying the Dragon" (Raphael), 108, 110

"St. Hermengild" (Herrera), 215

"St. Margaret" (Titian), 212

"St. Margaret Overcoming the Dragon" (Raphael), 114

"St. Martin" (Vandyck), 170

"St. Michael" (Guido Reni), 147

"St. Michael Attacking Satan" (Raphael), 108

"St. Peter Martyr" (Titian), 129

St. Peter's, Michael Angelo the architect of, 103;
  supervision of building by Raphael, 114

"St. Sebastian" (Coello), 210

"St. Sebastian" (Vinci), 90

Salvator Rosa, 151-152

Sarto, Andrea del, 104-107

Savonarola, 94-97

Saxony, school of, 202

"Scene at Abbotsford" (Landseer), 295

"Scene in the Lower World," 38

"School of Anatomy" (Rembrandt), 182-184

Scott, Walter, "Poems" and "Life of Napoleon" illustrated by Turner, 284;
  portrait by Leslie, 295;
  and Landseer, 295-296

"Scourging of St. Andrew" (Domenichino), 141

Sculpture, more advanced than painting among Oriental nations, 112;
  Greek, developed from Egyptian and Assyrian, 13

Sebastian del Piombo, 115, 120-121

Segnier, Chancellor, and Le Brun, 238

Seneca, head by Cespedes, 214

Seville in time of Murillo, 221

Seville Academy of Art, founded by Murillo, 225

Seville school of painting, 208, 213

Shakespeare's characters, painted by Romney, 268

"Shepherd Boy in a Shower" (Gainsborough), 258

"Shepherds Adoring the Infant Saviour" (Correggio), 135-137

"Shrine of St. Ursula" (Memling), 160-161

"Sibyl (The) and the Emperor" (Van der Weyden), 158-159

Siddons, Mrs., portrait by Reynolds, 255

Signorelli, Luca, 76, 80

Sikyon school, 15-17

Simone, Martini, 69-70

Sirani, Elisabetta, 148-150

"Sistine Madonna" (Raphael), 114

"Slave Ship" (Turner), 288-289

Smith, Sydney, and Landseer, 299

Snyders, Frans, 167

Solario, Andrea, 93

Sosos, 34

Spain, painting in, 207-233

"Sposalizio, Lo" (Raphael), 107-108

"Staffa Madonna" (Raphael), 108

Steen, Jan, 178

Still-life, Dutch excellence in painting, 177

Stirling, quoted, 215, 218, 228

Stone, paintings on, 36

Strada, portrait by Marietta Robusti, 130

Strafford, Earl of. See Wentworth, Thomas

Studius. See Ludius

Suckling, Sir John, portrait by Vandyck, 174

Suger, Abbot, 53

Sunder, Lucas, 202

"Surrender of Arundel Castle" (Landseer), 293

Swanenburg, J. J. van, instructor of Rembrandt, 181

Tadius. See Ludius

Tafi, A., 64

Tasso, portrait by Bassano, 132

"Temporal Generation of Our Lord" (Vargas), 213

Teniers, David, 178-180

Terburg, Gerhard, 181

Thackeray's (Miss) "Miss Angel" the story of Angelica Kauffman, 203

Thornbury, quoted, 283

Thornhill, Sir James, 252

"Three Graces" (Palma), 121

"Three Graces" (Raphael), 110

Thurlow, Lord Chancellor, portrait by Romney, 267

Tile-painting, Assyrian, 9-11;
  Babylonian, 11-12

Timanthes, 15

Tintoretto, 130

Titian, 121-130;
  and Correggio, 135;
  his "Last Supper," 211;
  instructor of Navarrete, 211;
  Carreño's copy of his "St. Margaret," 212

Tobar, Alonzo Miguel de, 213, 229

Toledo, Coello painter to the Cathedral of, 213

Torrigiano, Piètro, 98

"Tragic Muse" (Reynolds), 255

"Transfiguration" (Raphael), 115

Transitional period, 61

"Trattato della Pittura" (Vinci), 93

"Triumphal Arch of Maximilian" (Dürer), 199

Tulp, Professor, portrait by Rembrandt, 184

Turner, Charles, 280

Turner, J. M. W., 271-292

"Turner's Annual Tour," 286

Uccello, Paolo, 79

"Ulysses Dividing Polyphemus" (Turner), 283

"Ulysses in the Under-world" (Nikias), 17

Umbrian school, 82

Urban VIII. and Claude Lorraine, 236

Utande, Gregorio, 212

Vænius, Otto, instructor of Rubens, 162

Velde, Adrian van de, 186

Valencia school, 208, 229

Vandyck, Anthony, 168-176;
  in England, 249

Vargas, Luis de, 213

Varnish, improvements by the Van Eycks in the use of, 156

Vasari, quoted, 75

Vase-painting by the ancients, 36-40

Vatican, decoration by Raphael of the halls of, 111

Vega, Lope de, on Coello, 210;
  on Navarrete, 211

Velasquez, 215-220;
  and Murillo, 222, 227

"Venice from the Salute Church" (Turner), 287

Venetian school, 80-82, 118

"Venus" (Titian), 124

"Venus Anadyomene" (Apelles), 19

Vernet, Carle, 245

Vernet, Claude Joseph, 240

Vernet, Horace, 245-248

Veronese, Paul, 131

Verrocchio, Andrea, 79, 84

Vescovi, Marco dei, portrait by Marietta Robusti, 130

Victoria, Queen, and Landseer, 298-299

Vien, Joseph Marie, 240

"Vierge, La, au Panier" (Correggio), 137-139

"View of Rome from the Aventine Hill" (Turner), 287

"Village Festival" (Wilkie), 292

"Village Politicians" (Wilkie), 292

Vincent, instructor of Horace Vernet, 245

Vinci, Leonardo da, 84-93, 99

Virgin, pictures by Murillo of, 227;
  by Joanes, 229

"Virgen de la Sevilletá" (Murillo), 225

"Vision of St. Jerome" (Parmigianino), 139

Vitruvius, quoted, 20

Volterra, Daniele de, 104

"Von Tromp Returning from Battle" (Turner), 284

Waagen, Dr., on Turner, 290

Walls. See Mural

Washington, George, portrait by Copley, 260

Water, Egyptian painting of, 5

"Water Carrier of Seville" (Velasquez), 216

Watson, Elkanah, portrait by Copley, 262-263

"Watson and the Shark" (Copley), 262

Watteau, Antoine, 239

"Way to Calvary" (Morales), 210

Wellington, Duke of, portrait by Lawrence, 270

Wells and Turner, 278

Welsteed, Rev. William, portrait by Copley, 259

Wentworth, Thomas, portrait by Vandyck, 174

Wentworth, Lady, and Angelica Kauffman, 204

West, Benjamin, 265-266;
  and Copley, 261

Weyden, Rogier van der, 158-159

Weyden, Rogier van der, the younger, 159-160

Wilkie, Sir David, 292-293

Williams, quoted, 270

Wilson, Richard, 254

"Wilton Family, The" (Vandyck), 174

Winckelmann and Angelica Kauffman, 204

"Wind-Mills" (Hobbema), 188

Window-painting. See Glass

Wohlgemuth, Michael, instructor of Dürer, 194

"Woodman and Dog in a Storm" (Gainsborough), 258

Wornum, on Turner, 290

Wouverman, Philip, 187

"Wreck of the Medusa" (Géricault), 244

Wynants, Jan, 187

Zeuxis, 14-15

Zuccaro, on Cespedes, 214

Zuccato, Sebastian, instructor of Titian, 123

Zurbaran, Francisco, 215