My dear cousin Laura: So you are thinking about camping out, and want my opinion as to whether
the spot we chose for our trout-fishing in June is a suitable place for ladies to go? I should
give a decided negative. My brother takes his wife and his sister usually, although he fortunately
left them at home last time. I think they must have to "make believe" a good deal to think
it fun. I am certain that had they been with us they would have been forced to exercise their
largest powers of imagination. We set out in fine weather, but entered the woods in a driving
snowstorm, and enjoyed a forty-six-mile drive over a road that has, I must say this for it,
not been known to be so bad for years. We came back in a pelting rain. We made our camp in
a snowstorm, and the wood was wet and would not burn, and our tent was damp and would not dry.
We fished in a boat on the lake, swept by cold winds until we were chilled to the bone and
our hands were so stiff we could not hold the rods. My brother had a "chill" the first night
in camp. I had indigestion from eating things fried in pork fat from the first meal until I
got a civilized repast at Frank's house in New York. I was bounced sore. My nose was peeled
by sun and cold. My lips were decorated by three large cold-sores. My hands bled constantly
from a combination of chap and sunburn. I made up my mind if I ever got safely out of those
woods it would be several years at least before I could be persuaded to enter them again. The
scenery is lovely, but one cannot enjoy it. The fishing is good, but it is hard work, and my
own opinion is that there is altogether "too much pork for a shilling" in the whole business.
Talk about being "ten miles from a lemon"! Try forty-six miles from a lemon over a corduroy
road. At first we had cold weather, hence no black flies or mosquitos. When warm weather came
on again we had both of them, and our experience was that the snowstorm was preferable. The
black flies made the day unendurable, and the mosquitos made the night as well as the day a
wasting misery. We had them everywhere--in the hut, in the tent, at the table, on the lake,
in the woods. No smudge or lotion discourages them; oil of tar is their delight, camphor they
revel in; buzzing, singing, biting continually are their pastime. They are a galling curse--a
nuisance which no words can describe. A lady might go through all this if she had perfect health
and the endurance under punishment of a prize-fighter. Your party may travel all those weary
miles and strike a fortunate week of pleasant weather, but you may, and more likely will, have
a week when it will rain dismally straight through without stopping. We found, on looking up
the statistics, that in an average season out of every twenty-two days eighteen will always
be stormy, lowering and dismal. No, don't camp out unless you can make up your mind beforehand
to every kind of discomfort and inconvenience to mar all that is beautiful and all that is
pleasing. I speak of course of the localities I have known in my three several attempts. They
say it is different in other parts of the region. But when you have plank roads and first-class
hotels and all the modern conveniences, I don't call that going into the woods and camping
out. The real thing is not very much fun except in the retrospect, when you can thank your
stars that you got out alive. For the greater part it is a snare and a delusion. But if you
still pine for the forests and streams and the free out-of-door life, I don't wish to discourage
you, and you know I never give advice.

                               Your affectionate cousin, F.G.

UNREFORMED SPELLING.

A little note has come to me which gives an entertaining glimpse of the average ability of
a class. "John Stubbs × his mark" is obviously "low-watermark," but there are levels between
that and high-school possibilities which we cannot often measure. The note is written on fair
white paper and had a white envelope. The writer is American, the wife of a fisherman, and
about thirty years old, though the handwriting is like that of the old ladies of our grandmothers'
time. It is given of course, in the full sense, literatim, and is offered for the encouragement--or
the despair--of the Spelling Reform Association. The little touch of pathos makes one read
with respect:

                                June the 2.
Dear Madam

Will you pleas to enclose the 100 dollars in an envelope, so that the
little boy wont loose it: the little dog was too years old the first of
May: and my babey too the 24 of April, they have always ben together
and he is verey intelegent indead and you can learn him eneything you
would wish to fealing asuared he will receve everey kindness you have
the best wishes of
                    Mrs. Hattie ----.

Perhaps it is well to add, the "100" means ten. The hero is a black Skye, long-haired, plume-tailed
and soft-eyed. What his views were upon removal from the back alley of his youth to a well-appointed
though by no means luxurious home he never said, but his investigation was comically thorough,
winding up in dumb amaze at the discovery of himself in a long mirror. His experience of feminine
humanity being limited to the variety that rolls its sleeves above its elbows and comports
itself accordingly, he bitterly resented good clothes, transferred his affections to the housemaids,
and only much coaxing and much sugar could win his heart for his new mistress.

"The little boy" had dubbed him "Penny," which hardly suited his silken attire and his little
haughty, imperious ways; so, though the children will still call him "Penny-wise" and "Four
Farthings," the mistress finds nothing less than "Pendennis" due to his dignity.--C.B.M.

OUR NEW VISITORS.

I should like to have Mr. Burroughs or some of our naturalists write one of their pleasant
papers and explain the mystery of the wood-thrush's advent in our gardens and upon our lawns.
Until a year ago the wood-thrush was not one of the birds which ever raised its note in our
pleasure-grounds. We heard them in the woods, and looked at them, when we intruded upon their
privacy, with that sort of shyness with which we watch strangers. We knew their "wood-notes
wild," and admired their plumage, but they did not inspire the same feeling as their cousin
the robin. But a year ago all at once here was the thrush. Nobody could tell when he came,
how he came or why he came. It seemed an accident, for there was but one pair: it was as if
through innocence or ignorance, instead of building their nests in their old chosen haunts,
they had wandered away and lost themselves in the spacious grounds of a gentleman's country-seat.
They had no dismay, no doubts, however: they took possession of the lawn with the utmost boldness.
They were rarely out of sight, hopping from morning until night about the turf, flying from
tree to tree with their impulsive movements, more graceful than the robins. They were never
silent, uttering perpetually their mellow flute-like cry and singing their simple but ecstatic
melody.

That was last year; and this year, 1880, the thrushes are everywhere in this Connecticut village
by the Sound. Their orange-and-tawny backs gleam in the sunshine from morning until night.
There are numbers of them. Their manners are very marked. They have quite the air of conquerors.
All the other birds yield them precedence, and they positively domineer over the pugnacious
little English sparrow, who is content to keep in the background and watch his chance when
feeding-time comes.

And of all the curious things about them, what seems most inexplicable is their tameness. They
have no mistrust, but eye you with an intelligent, knowing look while bringing their young
to feed within half a dozen feet of you. They perch on the croquet-arches in the midst of a
noisy game. They sing directly over your head with the utmost spirit and vivacity, hardly ceasing
all the forenoon, and again bursting out toward evening and maintaining their song until every
other bird's lay is hushed in the twilight. White of Selborne would have delighted in such
a freak on the part of these pretty gay strangers, who have left secluded swampy haunts, the
deep dells where the blackberries twine and the daisies and clover blossom, for our close-cut
lawns and elm- and willow-shaded nooks.--A.T.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Alexander Pope. By Leslie Stephen. (English Men-of-Letters Series.) New York: Harper & Brothers.

The interest of this series, which increases rather than diminishes--as one might have feared
would be the case--with each succeeding volume, lies very much in the fact that the list of
writers, almost as long and varied as that of the subjects, is a representative one. It comprises
men who have won distinction in different departments--as novelists, historians, scholars,
scientific expounders--but who here meet in the common field of biographical criticism and
work together under the same limitations and conditions. Hence their performances give us not
so much a measure of their individual powers as of the tone of thought and intellectual depth
of the class to which they belong. However diverse their abilities and special fields of observation
or research, their general range of knowledge, methods of study and ideas of life are very
much the same. They are collectively "men of culture," as the writers of Queen Anne's time
were "wits," and it is the qualities associated with that term, rather than any distinct gifts
or characteristics, that are here called into play. Mr. Trollope's Thackeray was perhaps an
exception--a black spot on the otherwise immaculate whiteness. In a different way the general
effect would have been still more seriously impaired if Mr. Ruskin's co-operation had been
invited. The outcroppings of a vulgar egotism might indicate a substratum necessary to be taken
into account, but it would have been a clear loss of labor to follow the leadings of any eccentric
vein. One might wonder at the absence of Mr. Matthew Arnold, the high priest of culture; but
we have to remember that Mr. Arnold is solicitous to stand apart, that he holds up ideals which
he is careful to inform us are not those of his time, and that he is fastidious in selecting
a point of view where he cannot be jostled, with perspectives to which no vision but his own
can accommodate itself. His culture may represent that of the future, but certainly does not
typify that of the present.

Mr. Leslie Stephen, on the contrary, might very well stand as a type of his class both in its
positive and negative qualities. He, more than any of his confrères, is a product of culture.
Unlike the greater number of them, he has no special talent, or pet object of enthusiasm, or
erratic tendencies. He is a trained critic, and is "nothing if not critical." His coolness
is a real coolness, not the effect of any "toning down" for the occasion, as we may suspect
to have been the case with Mr. Froude and Mr. Goldwin Smith. His knowledge is accurate, his
judgments are sound, his taste is seldom at fault, his style is faultless and colorless, he
never attempts what he is unable to do well and without any appearance of strain. Though he
may have given more attention to the literature of the eighteenth century than to that of any
other period, one feels that he might safely have been entrusted with the preparation of any
volume of this series. It was probably from a sense of fitness, not by mere chance, that he
was selected to write the initial volume, which pitched the key for those that were to follow,
and that so far he is the only writer who has been called upon for a second contribution.

His task in the present instance has been much less easy and simple than that which he before
undertook. In the case of Johnson he had only to select and condense from material so copious
and authentic as left no question of fact or problem of criticism unsettled. Pope's career,
on the other hand, after all the research that has been spent upon it, is full of obscurities;
his character, while it invites, seems to evade, analysis; even his rank and exact position
in literature cannot be said to be conclusively determined. It is needless to say that Mr.
Stephen has been diligent and skilful in examining and summarizing whatever facts relating
to his subject have been brought to light by recent or early investigation; that he weighs
all the evidence with strict impartiality, and, when it is insufficient, is content to suspend
judgment without resorting to conjecture; or that his views both on points of conduct and literary
questions, if not marked by any striking originality, show clear and vigorous thinking and
are stated in a way that provokes no impatience or captious dissent. The interest of the narrative
is well sustained, and the general impression left by it that of a report made by an expert
on documents that needed to be thoroughly sifted in order that the issues which had been raised
might be succinctly set forth and fully apprehended. Further than this Mr. Stephen does not
pretend to go. His report is preliminary, not final. No matter previously left uncertain is
here determined. Instead of an added knowledge, we are only made more sensible of our former
ignorance. Pope's figure, far from coming more distinctly into view, seems to have receded
and grown more vague. Certain traits have perhaps been made more noticeable than before, but
those essential elements of character which would define, explain, reconcile, and enable us
to conceive the combination as a unit, have eluded observation.

This is, of course, a natural result of the gaps and contradictions in the evidence, the lack
especially of those minute details which are not only necessary links, but often the most suggestive
features, in a record of facts or delineation of character. And if it be urged that a deeper
insight would have in some measure supplied this deficiency, the answer can only be that we
have no right to expect from any man the exercise of powers which he does not possess or affect
to possess--powers which, in a case like this, would need to be of the finest and rarest kind.
We may, however, fairly regret that Mr. Stephen has not availed himself of a resource that
lay within his reach for making the accessories of his picture more brilliant and effective,
with the possible incidental result of throwing a stronger light on the principal figure. Whatever
else may be debated about Pope, no one would deny that he was pre-eminently the man of his
time--not only its most conspicuous figure, but the very embodiment of its ideals. He suited
it and it suited him. Hence the fulness and in a certain sense perfection of his work, the
fact that he has given his name to an epoch as well as a school, and consequently the important
place which he still retains in the history of literature. Men who were certainly not his inferiors
in intellectual power lived in the same age, partook of its influence and contributed to its
achievements; but they were not so thoroughly at home in it: their best qualities were stunted,
rather than developed, by its soil and atmosphere. Dryden, one may safely say, would have been
greater had he lived earlier, Fielding had he lived later. But one cannot imagine Pope thriving
in any other air or producing equal work under different influences. The qualities most esteemed
by his contemporaries he possessed in a superlative degree; his limitations were common to
the society in which he moved, and neither he nor it was conscious of them as such; consequently,
what would have been impediments to a different nature were to his means of free and spontaneous
action. And not only does he represent the ideas of his age, but he depicted its types and
manners. In this respect he is the link between the comic dramatists and the novelists, between
Congreve and Fielding. The wits, the beaux, the fine ladies, the Grub Street drudges of the
reign of Anne, whatever be the fidelity or other merits of the portraitures, are more familiar
to us in the satires of Pope than as reflected in any other mirror. For these reasons Pope
is one of the last men who can be studied to advantage from a single point of view or in a
detached position. We need to understand not only his personal relations but his general affinities
with the men and events of his time--of that world, at least, of which he was the centre. True,
the period is better known to readers generally than almost any other. But it is not a copious
accumulation of facts or a labored analysis--for which there would have been no space--that
we miss in Mr. Stephen's book, but such groupings and irradiating touches as might have given
us a vivid glimpse, if only a glimpse, of the whole field. Yet in lamenting that this much
is not given us we are perhaps making the mistake before noticed, of demanding from a given
source what it could not supply. We are driven back, therefore, on the reflection how much
the slightest things in art depend on inspiration, on original power--how immeasurable the
distance is between the man of culture and the man of genius.

Samuel Lover: A Biographical Sketch. With Selections from his Writings and Correspondence.
By Andrew James Symington. New York: Harper & Brothers.

