Dear West, I have received the end of your first act, (229) and now will tell you sincerely
what I think of it.  If I was not so pleased with the beginning as I usually am with your compositions,
believe me the part of Pausanias has charmed me. There is all imaginable art joined with all
requisite simplicity: and a simplicity, I think, much preferable to that in the scenes of Cleodora
and Argilius.  Forgive me, if I say they do not talk laconic but low English in her, who is
Persian too, there would admit more heroic.  But for the whole part of Pausanias, 'tis great
and well worried up, and the art that is seen seems to proceed from his head, not from the
author's.  As I am very desirous you should continue, so I own I wish you would improve or
change the beginning: those who know you not so well as I do, would not wait with so much patience
for the entrance of Pausanias.  You see I am frank; and if I tell you I do not approve of the
first part, you may believe me as sincere when I tell you I admire the latter extremely.

My letter has an odd date.  You would not expect I should be writing in such a dirty place
as Reggio: but the fair is charming; and here come all the nobility of Lombardy, and all the
broken dialects of Genoa, Milan, Venice, Bologna, etc.  You never heard such a ridiculous confusion
of tongues.  All the morning one goes to the fair undressed, as to the walks of Tunbridge:
'tis Just in that manner, with lotteries, raffles, etc.  After dinner all the company return
in their coaches, and make a kind of corso, with the ducal family, who go to shops, where you
talk to 'em, from thence to the opera, in mask if you will, and afterwards to the ridotto.
This five nights in the week, Fridays there are masquerades, and Tuesdays balls at the Rivalta,
a villa of the Duke's.  In short, one diverts oneself.  I pass most part of the opera in the
Duchess's box, who is extremely civil to me and extremely agreeable.  A daughter of the Regent's,
(230) that could please him, must be so.  She is not young, though still handsome, but fat;
but has given up her gallantries cheerfully, and in time, and lives easily with a dull husband,
two dull sisters of his, and a dull court.  These two princesses are wofully ugly, old maids
and rich.  They might have been married often; but the old Duke was whimsical and proud, and
never would consent to any match for them, but left them much money, and pensions of three
thousand pounds a year apiece. There was a design to have given the eldest to this King of
Spain, and the Duke was to have had the Parmesan princess; so that now he would have had Parma
and Placentia, Joined to Modena, Reggio, Mirandola, and Massa.  But there being a Prince of
Asturias, the old Duke Rinaldo broke off the match, and said his daughter's children should
not be younger brothers: and so they mope old virgins.

I am goin@ from hence to Venice, in a fright lest there be a war with France, and then I must
drag myself through Germany.  We have had an imperfect account of a sea-fight in America .
but we are so out of the way, that one can't be sure of it.  Which way soever I return, I shall
be soon in England, and there you 'will find me again.

As much as ever yours.

(229) of a tragedy called Pausanias, The first act, and probably all that was ever written
by Mr. West. [In the preceding month West had forwarded to Gray the sketch of this tragedy,
which he appears to have criticised with much freedom; but Mr. Mason did not find among Gray's
papers either the sketch itself, or the free critique upon it.]

(230) Philip Duke of Orleans.

172 Letter 32 To Sir Horace Mann. (231) Calais, and Friday, and here I have been these two
days, 1741.

Is the wind laid? Shall I Dever get aboard? I came here on Wednesday night, but found a tempest
that has never ceased since. At Boulogne I left Lord Shrewsbury and his mother, and brothers
and sisters, waiting too: Bulstrode (232) passes his winter at the court of Boulogne, and then
is to travel with two young Shrewsburys.  I was overtaken by Amorevoli and Monticelli, (233)
who are here with me and the Viscontina, and Barberina, and Abbate Vanneschi (234)-what a coxcomb!
I would have talked to him about the opera, but he preferred politics.  I have wearied Amorevoli
with questions about you.  If he was not just come from you, and could talk to me about you,
I should hate him; for, to flatter me, he told me that I talked Italian better than you.  He
did not know how little I think it a compliment to have any thing preferred to you-besides,
you know the consistence of my Italian!  They are all frightened out of their senses about
going on the sea, and are not a little afraid of the English.  They went on board the William
and Mary yacht yesterday, which waits here for Lady Cardigan from Spa. The captain clapped
the door, and swore in broad English that the Viscontina should not stir till she gave him
a song, he did not care whether it was a catch or a moving ballad; but she would not submit.
I wonder he did!  When she came home and told me, I begged her not to judge of all the English
from this specimen; but, by the way, she will find many sea-captains that grow on dry land.

Sittinburn, Sept. 13, O. S.

Saturday morning, or yesterday, we did set out, and after a good passage of four hours and
a half, landed at Dover.  I begin to count my comforts, for I find their contraries thicken
on my apprehension.  I have, at least, done for a while with postchaises.  My trunks were a
little opened at Calais, and they would have stopped my medals, but with much ado and much
three louis's they let them pass.  At Dover I found the benefit of the motions (235) having
miscarried last year, for they respected Sir Robert's son even in the person of his trunks.
I came over in a yacht with East India captains' widows, a Catholic girl, coming from a convent
to be married, with an Irish priest to guard her, who says he studied medicines for two years,
and after that he studied learning for two years more.  I have not brought over a word of French
or Italian for common use; I have so taken pains to avoid affectation in this point, that I
have failed Only now and then in a chi`a l`a! to the servants, who I can scarce persuade myself
yet are English.  The COUntry-town (and you will believe me, who, you know, am not prejudiced)
delights me; the populousness, the ease, the gaiety, and well-dressed every body amaze me.
Canterbury, which on my setting out I thought deplorable, is a paradise, (236) to Modena, Reggio,
Parma, etc.  I had before discovered that there was nowhere but in England the distinction
of middling people; I perceive now, that there is peculiar to us middling houses: how snug
they are!  I write to-night because I have time; to-morrow I get to London just as the post
goes.  Sir Robert is at Houghton.  Good night till another post.  You are quite well I trust,
but tell me so always.  My loves to the Chutes (237)  and all the etc.'s.

Oh! a story of Mr. Pope and the prince:-"Mr. Pope, you don't love princes."  "Sir, I beg your
pardon."  "Well, you don't love kings, then!""Sir, I own I love the lion best before his claws
are grown."  Was it possible to make a better answer to such simple questions?  Adieu! my dearest
child! Yours, ten thousand times over.

P. S. Patapan does not seem to regret his own country.

(231) This is the first of the series of letters addressed by Walpole to Sir Horace Man, British
envoy at the court of Tuscany.  The following prefatory note, entitled "Advertisement by the
Author," explains the views which led Walpole to preserve them for publication:-

"The following Collection of Letters, written very carelessly by a young man, had been preserved
by the person to whom they were addressed.  The author, some years after the date of the first,
borrowed them, on account of some anecdotes interspersed.  On the perusal, among many trifling
relations and stories, which were only of consequence or amusing to the two persons concerned
in the correspondence, he found some facts, characters, and news, which, though below the dignity
of history, might prove entertaining to many other people: and knoing how much pleasure, not
only himself, but many other persons have found in a series of private and familiar letters,
he thought it worth his while to preserve these, as they contain something of the customs,
fashions, politics, diversions, and private history of several years; which, if worthy of any
existence, can be properly transmitted to posterity only in this manner.

"The reader will find a few pieces of intelligence which did not prove true; but which are
retained here as the author heard and related them, lest correction should spoil the simple
air of the narrative.* When the letters were written, they were never intended for public inspection;
and now they are far from being thought correct,  or more authentic than the general turn of
epistolary correspondence admits.  The author would sooner have burnt them than have taken
the trouble to correct such errant trifles, which are here presented to the reader, with scarce
any variation or omissions, but what private friendships and private history, or the great
haste with which the letters were written, made indispensably necessary, as will plainly appear,
not only by the unavoidable chasms, where the originals were worn out or torn away, but by
many idle relations and injudicious remarks and prejudices of a young man; for which @the only
excuse the author can pretend to make, is, that as some future reader may possibly be as young
as he was when he first wrote, he hopes they may be amused with what graver people (if into
such hands they should fall) will very justly despise.  Who ever has patience to peruse the
series, will find, perhaps, that as the author grew older, some of his faults became less striking."
* They are marked in the notes.

(232) Tutor to the young Earl of Shrewsbury.  [.Charles Talbot, fifteenth Earl of Shrewsbury,
born December 1719.  He married, in 1753, Elizabeth, daughter of the Hon.  John Dormer, afterwards
Lord Dormer, and died in 1787, without issue.]

(233) Italian singers.  [Angelo Maria Monticelli, a celebrated singer of the same class as
Veluti, was born at Milan in 1715, and first attained the celebrity which he enjoyed by singing
with Mingotti at the Royal Opera at Naples in 1746.  After visiting most of the cities of the
Continent, he was induced by the favour with which he was received at Dresden to make that
city his residence, until his death in 1764.  Is the name of Amorevoli, borne by one of the
first singers of that day, an assumed one, or an instance of name fatality? Certain it is,that
Amorevole is a technical term in music somewhat analogous in its signification with Amabile
and Amoroso.]

(234) An Italian abb`e, who directed and wrote the operas under the protection of Lord Middlesex.

(235) The motion in both houses of Parliament, 1740, for removing Sir Robert Walpole from the
King's councils. [See ante, p. 169 (Letter 30).)

(236) ("On! On! through meadows, managed like a garden, A paradise of hops and high production;
For, after years of travel by a bard in Countries of greater heat, but lesser suction, A green
field is a sight which makes him pardon The absence of that more sublime construction, Which
mixes up vines, olives, precipices, Glaciers, volcanos, oranges, and ices."-Byron, 1823.)

(237) John Chute and Francis Whithed, Esqrs. two great friendls of Mr. W.'s, whom he had left
at Florence, where he had been himself thirteen months, in the house of Mr. Mann, his relation
and particular friend.

174 Letter 33 To Sir Horace Mann. [The beginning of this letter is lost.)

****I had written and sealed my letter, but have since received another from you, dated Sept.
24. I read Sir Robert your account of Corsica; he seems to like hearing any account sent this
way-indeed, they seem to have more superficial relations in general than I could have believed!
You will oblige me, too, with any farther account of Bianca Colonna: (238) it is romantic,
her history!

I am infinitely obliged to Mr. Chute for his kindness to me, and still more for his friendship
to you.  You cannot think how happy I am to hear that you are to keep him longer.  You do not
mention his having received my letter from Paris: I directed it to him, recommended to you.
I would not have him think me capable of neglecting to answer his letter, which obliged me
so much.  I will deliver Amorevoli his letter the first time I see him.

Lord Islay (239) dined here; I mentioned Stosch's (240) Maltese cats.  Lord Islay begged I
would write to Florence to have the largest male and female that can be got.  If you will speak
to Stosch, you will oblige me: they may come by sea. You cannot imagine my amazement at your
not being invited to Riccardi's ball; do tell me, when you know, what can be the meaning of
it; it could not be inadvertence-nay, that were as bad! Adieu my dear child, once more!

(238A kind friend of Joan of Are, who headed the Corsican rebels against the Genoese.

(239) Archibald Campbell, Earl of Islay, and, on his brother's death in 1743, Duke of Argyle.

(240) Baron Stosch, a Prussian virtuoso, and spy for the court of England on the Pretender.
He had been driven from Rome, though it was suspected that he was a spy on both sides: he was
a man of a most infamous character in every respect.  according to the Biographic Universelle,
the Baron "ne put s'acquitter de fonctions aussi d`elicates sans se voir expos`e `a des naines
violentes, qui le forc`erent `a se retirer `a Florence;" where he died in 1757.  He was one
of the most skilful and industrious antiquaries of his time.  A catalogue of his gems was drawn
up by Winkelmann.]

175 Letter 34 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. London, 1741.

My Dearest Harry, Before I thank you for myself, I must thank you for that excessive good nature
you showed in writing to poor Gray. I am less impatient to see you, as I find you are not the
least altered, but have the same tender friendly temper you always had. I wanted much to see
if you were still the same-but you are.

Don't think of coming before your brother, he is too good to be left for any one living: besides,
if it is possible, I will see you in the country.  Don't reproach me, and think nothing could
draw me into the country: impatience to see a few friends has drawn me out of Italy; and Italy,
Harry, is pleasanter than London.  As I do not love living en famille so much as you (but then
indeed my family is not like yours), I am hurried about getting myself a house; for I have
so long lived single, that I do not much take to being confined with my own family.

You won't find me much altered, I believe; at least, outwardly.  'I am not grown a bit shorter,
or a bit fatter, but am just the same long lean creature as usual.  Then I talk no French.,
but to my footman; nor Italian, but to myself.  What inward alterations may have happened to
me, you will discover best; for you know 'tis said, one never knows that one's self.  I will
answer, that that part of it that belongs to you, has not suffered the least change-I took
care of that. For virt`u, I have a little to entertain you: it is my sole pleasure.-I am neither
young enough nor old enough to be in love.

My dear Harry, will you take care and make my compliments to that charming Lady Conway, (241)
who I hear is so charming, and to Miss Jenny [Conway], who I know is so?  As for Miss Anne,
(242) and her love as far as it is decent: tell her, decency is out of the question between
us, that I love her without any restriction. I settled it yesterday with Miss Conway, that
you three are brothers and sister to me, and that if you had been so, I could not love you
better.  I have so many cousins, and uncles and aunts, and bloods that grow in Norfolk, that
if I had portioned out my affections to them, as they say I should, what a modicum would have
fallen to each!-So, to avoid fractions, I love my family in you three, their representatives. (243)

Adieu, my dear Harry! Direct to me at Downing Street. Good-bye!  Yours ever.

(241) Isabella Fitzroy, daughter of Charles Duke of Grafton.  She had been married in May,
to(Walpole's maternal cousin), Francis Seymour Conway, afterwards Earl of Hertford.(

242) Miss Anne conway, youngest sister of Henry Seymour Conway.

(243) They were first cousins by the mother's side; Francis first Lord conway having married
Charlotte, eldest daughter of John Shorter of Bybrook in Kent, sister to Catherine Shorter
Lady Walpole.

176 Letter 35 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, Oct. 8, 1741, O. S.

I have been very near sealing this letter with black wax; Sir Robert came from Richmond on
Sunday night extremely ill, and on Monday was in great danger.  It was an ague and looseness;
but they have stopped the latter, and converted the other into a fever, which they are curing
with the bark.  He came out of his chamber to-day for the first time, and is quite out of danger.
One of the newspapers says, Sir R. W. is so bad that there are no Hopes of him.

The Pomfrets (244) are arrived; I went this morning to visit my lord, but did not find him.
Lady Sophia is ill, and my earl (245) still at Paris, not coming. There is no news, nor a soul
in town.  One talks of nothing but distempers, like Sir Robert's. My Lady Townsende (246) was
reckoning up the other day the several things that have cured them; such a doctor so many,
such a medicine, so many; but of all, the greatest number have found relief from the sudden
deaths of their husbands.

The opera begins the day after the King's birthday: the singers are not permitted to sing till
on the stage, so no one has heard them, nor have I seen Amorovoli to give him the letter. 
The opera is to be on the French system of dancers, scenes, and dresses.  The directors have
already laid out great sums.  They talk of a mob to silence the operas, as they did the French
players; but it will be more difficult, for here half the young noblemen in town are engaged,
and they will not be so easily persuaded to humour the taste of the mobility: in short, they
have already retained several eminent lawyers from the Bear Garden (247) to plead their defence.
I have had a long visit this morning from Don Benjamin: (248) he is one of the best kind of
agreeable men I ever saw-quite fat and easy, with universal knowledge: he is in the greatest
esteem at my court.

I am going to trouble you with some commissions.  Miss Rich, (249) who is the finest singer
except your sister (250) in the world, has begged me to get her some music, particularly "the
office of the Virgin of the Seven Sorrows," by Pergolesi, (251) the "Serva Padrona, il Pastor
se torna Aprile," and "Symplicetta Pastorella."  If you can send these easily, you will much
oblige me.  Do, too, let me know by your brother, what you have already laid out for me, that
I may pay him. I was mentioning to Sir Robert some pictures in italy, which I wished him to
buy; two particularly, if they can be got, would make him delight in you beyond measure.  They
are, a Madonna, and Child, by Dominichino, (252) in the palace Zambeccari, at Boloana, or Caliambec,
(253) as they call it; Mr. Chute knows the picture.  The other is by Corregio, in a convent
at Parma, and reckoned the second best of that hand in the world.  There are the Madonna and
Child, St. Catherine, St. Matthew, and other figures: it is a most known picture, and has been
engraved by Augustin Caracei.  If you can employ any body privately to inquire about these
pictures, be so good as to let me know; Sir R. would not scruple almost any price, for he has
of neither hand: the convent is poor: the Zambeccari collection is to be sold, though, when
I inquired after this picture, they would not set a price.

Lord Euston is to be married to Lady Dorothy Boyle (254) tomorrow, after so many delays.  I
have received your long letter, and Mr. Chute's too, which I will answer next post.  I wish
I had the least politics to tell you; but all is silent. The opposition sav not a syllable,
because they don't know what the Court will think of public 'affairs; and they will not take
their part till they are sure of contradicting.  The Court will not be very ready to declare
themselves, as their present situation is every way disagreeable.  All they say, is to throw
the blame entirely on the obstinacy of the Austrian Court, who -,vould never stir or soften
for themselves, while they thought any one obliged to defend them.  All I know of news is,
that Poland is leaning towards the acquisition side, like her neighbours, and proposes to get
a lock of the Golden Fleece too. Is this any part of Gregory's (255) negotiation?  I delight
in his Scapatta--"Scappata, no; egli solamente ha preso la posta." My service to Seriston;
he is charming.

How excessively obliging to go to Madame Grifoni's (256) festino!  but believe me, I shall
be angry, if for my sake, you do things that are out of your character: don't you know that
I am infinitely fonder of that than of her?

I read your story of the Sposa Panciatici at table, to the great entertainment of the company,
and Prince Craon's epitaph, which Lord Cholmley (257) says he has heard before, and does not
think it is the prince's own; no more do I, it is too good; but make my compliments of thanks
to him; he shall have his buckles the first opportunity I find of sending them. Say a thousand
things for me to dear Mr. Chute, till I can say them next post for myself: till then, adieu.
Yours ever.

(244) Thomas Earl of Pomfret, and Henrietta Louisa, his consort, and his two eldest daughters,
Sophia and Charlotte, had been in Italy at the same time with Mr. Walpole.  The Earl had been
master of the horse to Queen Caroline, and the countess lady of the bedchamber.

(245) Henry Earl of Lincoln was at that time in love with Lady Sophia Fermor.

(246) Ethelreda Harrison, wife of Charles Lord Viscount Townsend, but parted from him.

(247) Boxers.

(248) Sir Benjamin Keene, ambassador at Madrid.

(249) Elizabeth, eldest daughter of Sir Robert Rich, since married to Sir George Lyttelton.
[Eldest son of sir Thomas Lyttelton of hagley; in 1744 appointed one of the lords of the treasury,
and in 1755, chancellor of the exchequer.  In 1757,when he retired from public life, he was
raised to the peerage, by the title of Lord Lyttelton.  He died in 1773.  His prose works were
printed collectively in 1774; and his poems have given him a place among the British poets.]

(250) Mary, daughter of R. Mann, Esq. since married to Mr. Foote.

(251) Better known to all lovers of the works of this great composer as his " Stabat mater."-E.

(252) It will be seen by Walpole's letter to Mr. Chute, of the 20th August 1743, now first
published, that he eventually succeeded in purchasing this picture.-E.

(253) A corrupted pronunciation of the Bolognese.

(254) This unfortunate marriage is alluded to several times in the course of the subsequent
letters.  George Earl of Euston was the eldest son of Charles the second Duke of Grafton. 
He married, in 1741, Lady Dorothy Boyle, eldest daughter and co-heir of Richard, third and
last heir of B(irlington.  She died in 1742, from the effects, as it is supposed, of his brutal
treatment of her.  The details of his cruelty towards her are almost too revolting to be believed.
In Sir Charles Hanbury Williams's poems are some pretty lines on her death, beginning, "Behold
one moment Dorothea's fate."-D.

(255) Gregorio ALdollo, an Asiatic, from being a prisoner at Leghorn, raised himself to be
employed to the Great Duke by the King of Poland.

(256) Elisabetta Capponi, wife of signor Grifoni, a great beauty.

(257) George third Earl of Cholmondeley, had married Mary Walpole, only legitimate daughter
of Sir Robert Walpole-D.

178 Letter 36 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Oct. 13, 1741. [The greatest part of this letter
is wanting.]

**** The Town will come to town, and then one shall know something.  Sir Robert is quite recovered.

Lady Pomfret I saw last night: Lady Sophia has been ill with a cold; her head is to be dressed
French, and her body English, for which I am sorry; her figure is so fine in a robe: she is
full as sorry as I am.  Their trunks are not arrived yet, so they have not made their appearance.
My lady told me a little out of humour that Uguecioni wrote her word, that you said her things
could not be sent away yet: I understood from you, that very wisely, you would have nothing
to do about them, so made no answer.

The parliament meets the fifteenth of November.  **** Amorevoli has been with me two hours
this evening; he is in panics about the first night, which is the next after the birthday.

I have taken a master, not to forget my Italian-don't it look like returning to Florence'!-some
time or other.  Good night. Yours ever and ever, my dear child.

178 Letter 37 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Oct. 19, 1741, O. S. [Great part wanting.]

I write to you up to the head and ears in dirt, straw, and unpacking.  I have been opening
all my cases from the Custom-house the whole morning; and-are not you glad?-every individual
safe and undamaged.  Judge if this is the Sir Robert you knew.

The politics of the age are entirely suspended; nothing is mentioned; but this bottling them
up, will make them fly out with the greater violence the moment the parliament meets; till
*** a word to you about this affair.

I am sorry to hear the Venetian journey of the Suares family; it does not look as if the Teresina
was to marry PandOlfini; do you know, I have set my heart upon that match.

You are very good to the Pucci, to give her that advice, though I don't suppose she will follow
it.  The Bolognese scheme ***  In return for Amorevoli's letter, he has given me two.  I fancy
it will be troublesome to you; so put his wife into some other method of correspondence with him.

Do you love puns? A pretty man of the age came into the playhouse the other night, booted and
spurred: says he, "I am come to see Orpheus"-"And Euridice- You rid I see," replied another
gentleman.

(258) The omissions in these letters marked with stars occur in the original MS.-D.

179 Letter 38 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Oct. 22, 1741, O. S.

Your brother has been with me this morning, and we have talked over your whole affair.  He
thinks it will be impossible to find any servant of the capacities you require, that will live
with you under twenty, if not thirty pounds a-year, especially as he is not to have your clothes:
then the expense of the journey to Florence, and of back again, in case you should not like
him, will be considerable.  He is for your taking one from Leghorn; but I, who know a little
more of Leghorn than he does, should be apprehensive of any person from thence being in the
interest of Goldsworthy, (259) or too attached to the merchants: in short, I mean, he would
be liable to prove a spy upon you.  We have agreed that I shall endeavour to find out a proper
man, if such a one will go to you for twenty pounds a-year, and then you shall ficar from me.
I am very sensible that Palombo (260) is not fit for you, and shall be extremely diligent in
equipping you with such a one as you want.  You know how much I want to be of service to you
even in trifles. I have been much diverted privately, for it is a secret that not a hundred
persons know yet, and is not to be spoken of.  Do but think on a duel between Winnington (261)
and Augustus Townshend; (262) the latter a pert boy, captain of an Indiaman; the former declared
cicisbeo to my Lady Townshend.  The quarrel was something that Augustus had said of them; for
since she was parted from her husband, she has broke with all his family.  Winnington challenged;
they walked into Hyde Park last Sunday morning, scratched one another's fingers, tumbled into
two ditches-that is Augustus did,-kissed, and walked home together. The other night at Mrs.
Boothby's-

Well, I did believe I should never find time to write to you again; I was interrupted in my
letter last post, and could not finish it; to-day I came home from the King's levee, where
I Kissed his hand, without going to the drawing-room, on purpose to finish my letter, and the
moment I sat down they let somebody in.  That somebody is gone, and I go on-At Mrs. Boothby's
Lady Townshend was coquetting with Lord Baltimore: (263) he told her, if she meant any thing
with him he was not for her purpose; if only to make any one jealous, he would throw away an
hour with her with all his heart.

The whole town is to be to-morrow night at Sir Thomas Robinson's (264) ball, which he gives
to a little girl of the Duke of Richmond's.  There are already two hundred invited, from miss
in bib and apron, to my lord chancellor (265) in bib and mace.  You shall hear about it next post.

I wrote you word that Lord Euston is married: in a week more I believe that I shall write you
word that he is divorced.  He is brutal enough; and has forbid Lady Burlington (266) his house,
and that in very ungentle terms.  The whole family is in confusion: the Duke of Grafton half
dead. and Lord Burlington half mad.  The latter has challenged Lord Euston, who accepted the
challenge, but they were prevented.  There are different stories: some say that the duel would
have been no breach of consanguinity; others, that there's a contract of marriage come out
in another place, which has had more consanguinity than ceremony in it: in short, one cannot
go into a room but you hear something of it.  Do you not pity the poor girl? of the softest
temper, vast beauty, birth, and fortune, to be so sacrificed!

The letters from the West Indies are not the most agreeable.  You have heard of the fine river
and little town which Vernon took, and named, the former dugusta, the latter Cumberland.  Since
that, they have found out that it is impracticable to take St. Jago by sea - on which Admiral
Vernon and Ogle insisted that Wentworth, with the land forces, should march to it by land,
which he, by advice of all the land-officers, has refused; for their march would have been
of eighty miles, through a mountainous, unknown country, full of defiles, where not two men
could march abreast; and they have but four thousand five hundred men, and twenty-four horses.
Quires of paper from both sides are come over to the council, who are to determine from hence
what is to be done.  They have taken a Spanish man-of-war and a register ship, going to Spain,
immensely valuable.

The parliament does not meet till the first of December, which relieves me into a little happiness,
and gives me a little time to settle myself.  I have unpacked all my things, and have not had
the least thing suffer.  I am now only in a fright about my birthday clothes, which I bespoke
at Paris: Friday is the day, and this is Monday, without any news of them!

I have been two or three times at the play, very unwillingly; for nothing was ever so bad as
the actors, except the company.  There is much in vogue a Mrs. Woffington, (267) a bad actress;
but she has life.

Lord Hartington (268) dines here: it is said (and from his father's partiality to another person's
father, I don't think it impossible) that he is to marry a certain miss:(269) Lord Fitzwilliam
is supposed another candidate.

Here is a new thing which has been much about town, and liked; your brother Gale (270) gave
me the copy of it:

                          "Les cours de l'Europe

L'Allemagne craint tout; L'Autriche risque tout; La Bavi`ere esp`ere touut; La Prusse entreprend
tout; La Mayence vend tout; Le Portugal regarde tout; L'Angleterre veut faire tout; L'Espagne
embrouille tout; La Savoye se d`efie de tout; Le Mercure se m`ele de tout; La France sch`ete
tout; Les Jesuites se trouvent par tout; Rome b`enit tout' Si dieu ne pourvoye `a tout, Le
diable emportera tout."

Good night, my dear child: you never say a word of your own health; are not you quite recovered?
a thousand services to Mr. Chute and Mr. Whithed, and to all my friends: do they begin to forget
me? I don't them.  Yours, ever.

(259) Consul at Leghorn, who was endeavouring to supplant Mr. Mann.

(260)An Italian, secretary to Mr. Mann.

(261"Winnington," says Walpole, (Memoirs, i. P. 151), "had been bred a Tory, but had left them
in the height of Sir Robert Walpole's power -.  when that minister sunk.  he had injudiciously,
and, to please my Lady Townshend, who had then the greatest influence over him, declined visiting
him, in a manner to offend the steady old Whigs; and his jolly way of laughing.at his own want
of principles had revolted all the graver sort, who thought deficiency of honesty too sacred
and profitable a commodity to be profaned and turned into ridicule.  He had infinitely more
wit than any man I ever knew, and it was as ready and quick as it was constant and Unmeditated.
His style was a little brutal, his courage not at all so; his good-humour inexhaustible; it
was impossible to hate or to trust him." Winnington was first Ynade lord of the admiralty,
then of the treasury, then cofferer, and lastly paymaster of the forces: to which office, on
his death in 1746, Mr. Pitt succeeded.-E.

(262) The Hon. Augustus Townshend was second son of the minister, Lord Townshend, by his second
wife, the sister of Sir Robert Walpole.  He was consequently half-brother to Charles, the third
viscount, husband to Ethelreda, Lady Townshend.-D.

(263) Charles Calvert, sixth Lord Baltimore in Ireland.  He was at this time member of parliament
for the borough of St. Germains, and a lord of the admiralty.-D.

(264) Sir Thomas Robinson, of Rokeby Park, in Yorkshire, commonly called "Long Sir Thomas,"
on account of his stature, and in order to distinguish him from the diplomatist, Sir Thomas
Robinson, afterwards created Lord Grantham. [He has elsewhere been styled the new Robinson
Crusoe by Walpole, who says, when speaking of him, " He was a tall, uncouth man; and his stature
was often rendered still more remarkable by his hunting-dress, a postilion's cap, a tight green
jacket, and buckskin breeches.  He was liable to sudden whims, and once set off on a sudden
in his hunting suit to visit his sister, who was married and settled at Paris.  He arrived
while there was a large company at dinner.  The servant announced M. Robinson, and he came
in to the great amazement of the hosts. Among others, -a French abb`e thrice lifted his fork
to his mouth and thrice laid it down, with an eager stare of surprise.  Unable to restrain
his curiosity any longer, he burst out with I Excuse me, sir, are you the famous Robinson Crusoe
so remarkable in history?'"]

(265) Philip Yorke, Lord Hardwicke.-D.

(266) Lady Dorothy Savile, eldest daughter and co-heiress of William second Marquis of Halifax,
the mother of the unhappy Lady Euston.-D.

(267) Margaret Woffington, the celebrated beauty.-D.

(268) William, Marquis of Hartington, afterwards fourth Duke of Devonshire.  He married Lady
Charlotte Boyle, second daughter of Richard, third Earl of Burlington.-D.

(269) Miss Mary Walpole, daughter of Sir Robert Walpole by his second wife, Maria Skerrett,
but born before their marriage. When her father was made an earl, she had the rank of an earl's
daughter given to her.-D.

(270) Galfridus Mann.

182 Letter 39 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Nov. 2, 1741.

You shall not hear a word but of balls and public places: this one week has seen Sir T. Robinson's
ball, my lord mayor's, the birthday, and the opera.  There were an hundred and ninety-seven
persons at Sir Thomas's, and yet was it so well conducted that nobody felt a crowd.  He had
taken off all his doors, and so separated the old and the young, that neither were inconvenienced
with the other.  The ball began at eight; each man danced one minuet with his partner, and
then began country dances.  There were four-and-twenty couple, divided into twelve a@d twelve:
each set danced two dances, and then retired into another room, while the other set took their
two; and so alternately.  Except Lady Ancram, (271) no married woman danced; so you see, in
England, we do not foot it till five-and-fifty.  The beauties were the Duke of Richmond's two
daughters (272) and their mother, still handsomer than they: the duke (273) sat by his wife
all night, kissing her hand: how this must sound in the ears of Florentine cicisbeos, cock
or hen! Then there was Lady Euston, Lady Caroline Fitzroy, (274) Lady Lucy Manners, (275) Lady
Camilla Bennett, (276) and Lady Sophia, (277) handsomer than all, but a little out of humour
at the scarcity of minuets; however, as usual, she danced more than any body, and, as usual
too, took out what men she liked or thought the best dancers. Lord Holderness (278) is a little
what Lord Lincoln (279) will be to-morrow; for he is expected.  There was Churchill's daughter
(280) who is prettyish, and dances well; and the Parsons (281) family from Paris, who are admired
too; but indeed it is `a force des muscles.  Two other pretty women were Mrs. Colebroke (did
you know the he-Colebroke in Italy?) and a Lady Schaub, a foreigner, who, as Sir Luke says,
would have him.  Sir R. was afraid of the heat, and did not go.  The supper was served at twelve;
a large table of hot for the lady-dancers; their partners and other tables stood round.  We
danced (for I country-danced) till four, then had tea and coffee, and came home.-Finis Balli.

* * Friday was the birthday; it was vastly full, the ball immoderately so, for there came all
the second edition of my lord mayor's, but not much finery: Lord Fitzwilliam (282) and myself
were far the most superb.  I did not get mine till nine that morning.

The opera will not tell as well as the other two shows, for they were obliged to omit the part
of Amorevoli, who has a fever.  The audience was excessive, without the least disturbance,
and almost as little applause; I cannot conceive why, for Monticelli ***** be able to sing
to-morrow.

At court I met the Shadwells; (283) Mademoiselle Misse Molli, etc.  I love them, for they asked
vastly after you, and kindly.  Do you know, I have had a mind to visit Pucci, the Florentine
minister, but he is so black, and looks so like a murderer in a play, that I have never brought
it about yet?  I know none of the foreign ministers, but Ossorio, (284) a little; he is still
vastly in fashion, though extremely altered.  Scandal, who, I believe, is not mistaken, lays
a Miss Macartney to his charge; she is a companion to the Duchess of Richmond, as Madame Goldsworthy
was; but Ossorio will rather be Wachtendonck (285) than Goldsworthy: what a lamentable story
is that of the hundred sequins per month!  I have mentioned Mr. Jackson, as you desired, to
Sir R., who says, he has a very good opinion of him.  In case of any change at Leghorn, you
will let me know.  He will not lose his patron, Lord Hervey, (286) so soon as I imagined; he
begins to recover.

I believe the Euston embroil is adjusted; I was with Lady Caroline Fitzroy on Friday evening;
there were her brother and the bride, and quite bridal together, quite honeymoonish.

I forgot to tell you that the prince was not at the opera; I believe it has been settled that
he should go thither on Tuesdays, and Majesty on Saturdays, that they may not meet. The Neutrality
(287) begins to break out, and threatens to be an excise or convention.  The newspapers are
full of it, and the press teems.  It has already produced three pieces: "The Groans of Germany,"
which I will send you by the first opportunity: "Bedlam, a poem on His Maj'esty's happy escape
from his German dominions, and all the wisdom of his conduct there." The title of this is all
that is remarkable in it.  The third piece is a ballad, which, not for the goodness, but for
the excessive abuse of it, I shall transcribe:

         THE LATE GALLANT EXPLOITS OF A FAMOUS BALANCING CAPTAIN.
           A NEW SONG.  TO THE TUNE OF THE KING AND THE MILLER.

                 Mene tekel.  The handwriting on the wall.

1. I'll tell you a story as strange as 'tis new, Which all, who're concerned, will allow to
be true, Of a Balancing Captain, well-known herabouts, Returned home, God save him as a mere
King of Clouts.

2. This Captain he takes, in a gold-ballast'd ship, Each summer to Terra damnosa a trip, For
which he begs, borrows, scrapes all he can get, And runs his poor Owners most vilely in debt.

3. The last time he set out for this blessed place, He met them, and told them a most piteous
case, Of a Sister of his, who, though bred up at court, Was ready to perish for want of support.

4. This Hungry Sister, he then did pretend,
Would be to his Owners a notable friend,
If they would at that critical junction supply her-
 They did-but alas! all the fat's in the fire!

5. This our Captain no sooner had finger'd the cole, But he hies him abroad with his good Madam
Vole- Where, like a true tinker, he managed this metal, And while he stopp'd one hole, made
ten in the kettle.

6. His Sister, whom he to his Owners had,,;worn, To see duly settled before his return, He
gulls with bad messages sent to and fro, Whilst he underhand claps up a peace with her foe.

7. on He then turns this Sister adrift, and declares Her most mortal foes were her Father's
right heirs- "G-d z-ds!" cries the world, "such a step was ne'er taken!" "O, ho!" says Nol
Bluff, "I have saved my own bacon."

8. Let France damn the Germans, and undam the Dutch, And Spain on Old England pish ever so
much, Let Russia bang Sweden, or Sweden bang that, I care not, by Robert! one kick of my hat.

9. So I by myself can noun substantive stand, Impose on my Owners, and save my own land; You
call me masculine, feminine, neuter, or block, Be what will the gender, sirs, hic, haec, or hoc.

10. Or should my choused Owners begin to look sour, I'll trust to Mate Bob to exert his old
power, Regit animos dictis, or nummis, with ease, So, spite of your growling, I'll act as I
please."

11. Yet worse in this treacherous contract, 'tis said, Such terms are agreed to, such promises
made, That his Owners must soon feeble beggars become- "Hold!" cries the crown office, "'twere
scandal-so, mum!"

12. This secret, however, must out on the day When he meets his poor Owners to ask for more
pay; And I fear when they come to adjust the account, zero for balance will prove their amount.

One or two of the stanzas are tolerable; some, especially the ninth, most nonsensically bad.
However, this is a specimen of what we shall have amply commented upon in parliament.

I have already found out a person, who, I believe, will please you, in Palombo's place: I am
to see your brother about it to-morrow, and next post you shall hear more particularly. I am
quite in concern for the poor prinCess,(289) and her conjugal and amorous distresses: I really
pity them; were they in England, we should have all the old prudes dealing out judgments on
her, and mumbling toothless ditties to the tune of Pride will have a fall.  I am bringing some
fans and trifles for her, si mignons! Good night. Yours ever.

(271) Lady Caroline D'Arcy, daughter of Robert third Earl of Holdernesse, and wife of William
Henry fourth Marquis of Lothian, at this time, during his father's lifetime, called Earl of
Ancram.-D

(272) Lady Caroline and Lady Emily Lenox. [The former was married, in 1744, to Henry Fox, the
first Lord Holland; the latter in 1746-7, to James, twentieth Earl of Kildare, in 1766 created
Duke of Leinster.]

(273) Charles, second Duke of Richmond, and Lady Sarah Cadogan, his duchess, eldest daughter
of William Earl Cadogan.-D.

(274) Eldest daughter of Charles Duke of Grafton.-[In 1746 married to Lord Petersham, afterwards
Earl of Harrington.]

(275) Sister to John Duke of'Rutland; married in 1742, to the Duke of Montrose.

(276) Only daughter of Charles second Earl of Tankerville.  She married, first, Gilbert Fane
Fleming, Esq. and secondly, Mr. Wake, of Bath.-D.

(277) Lady Sophia Fermor.-D.

(278) Robert D'Arcy, fourth and last Earl of Holdernesse.-E.

(279) Lord Lincoln was at this time an admirer of Lady Sophia Fermor,-D.

(280) Harriet, natural daughter of General Churchill; afterwards married to Sir Everard Fawkener.

(281) The son and daughters of Alderman Parsons, a Jacobite brewer, who lived much in France,
and had, somehow or other, been taken notice of by the king.

(282) William third Earl Fitzwilliam, in Ireland; created an English peer in 1742; and in 1746
an English earl.-D.

(283) Sir John Shadwell, a physician, his wife and daughters, the youngest of whom was pretty,
and by the foreigners generally called Mademoiselle Misse Molli, had been in Italy, when Mr.
W. was there.

(284) The Chevalier Ossorio, minister from the King of Sardinia.

(285) General Wachtendonck, commander of the great dukes troops at Leghorn, was cicisbeo to
the conslil's wife there.

(286) John Lord Hervey, lord privy seal, and eldest son of John first Earl Of Bristol.  He
was a man of considerable celebrity in his day; but is now principally known from his unfortunate
rivalry with Pope, for the good graces of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.  He died August 5, 1743,
at the age of forty-seven.-D.

(287) The Neutrality for the electorate of Hanover.(

(288) This song is a satire upon George II., ,the balancing Captain," and upon that in his
vacillating and doubtful conduct, which his fears for the electorate of Hanover made him pursue,
whenever Germany was the seat of war.  His Sister, whom he is accused of deserting, was Maria
Theresa, Queen of Hungary.-E.

(289) The Prince de Craon, and the princess his wife, who had been favourite mistress to Leopold,
the last Duke of Lorrain, resided at this time at Florence, where the prince was head of the
council of regency; but they were extremely ill-treited and mortified by the Count de Richcourt,
a low Lorrainer, who, being a creature of the great duke's favourite minister, had the chief
ascendant and power there.

186 Letter 40 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, Nov. 5, 1741, O. S.

I just mentioned to you in my letter on Monday, that I had found such a person as you wanted;
I have since seen your brother, who is so satisfied with him, that he was for sending him directly
away to you, without staying six weeks for an answer from you, but I chose to have your consent.
He is the son of a tradesman in this city, so not yet a fine gentleman.  He is between fifteen
and sixteen, but very tall of his age: he was disappointed in not going to a merchant at Genoa,
as was intended; but was so far provided for it as to have learned Italian three months: he
speaks French very well, writes a good hand, and casts accounts; so, you see there will not
be much trouble in forming him to your purpose.  He will go to you for twenty pounds a-year
and his lodging.  If you like this, Nvrite me word by the first post, and he shall set out
directly.

We hear to-day that the Toulon squadron is airived at Barcelona; I don't like it of' all things,
for it has a look towards Tuscany.  If it is suffered to go thither quietly, it will be no
small addition to the present discontents.

Here is another letter, which I am entreated to send you, from poor Amorevoli; he has a continued
fever, though not a high one. Yesterday, Monticelli was taken ill, so there will be no opera
on Saturday; nor was on Tuesday.  MOnticelli is infinitely admired; next to Farinelli.  The
Viscontina is admired more than liked.  The music displeases every body, and the dances.  I
am quite uneasy about the opera, for Mr. Conway is one of' the directors, and I fear they will
lose considerably, which he cannot afford.  There are eight; Lord Middlesex, (290) Lord Holderness,
Mr. Frederick, (291) Lord Conway, (292) Mr. Conway, (293) Mr. Damer, (294) Lord Brook, (295)
and Mr. Brand. (296) The five last are directed by the three first; they by the first, and
he by the Abb`e Vanneschi, (297) who will make a pretty sum.  I Will give YOU Some instances;
not to mention the improbability of eight young thoughtless men of fashion understanding economy
-. it is usual to give the poet fifty guineas for composing the books-Vanneschi and Rolli are
allowed three hundred.  Three hundred more VannesChi had for his journey to Italy to pick up
dancers and performers, which was always as well transacted by bankers there.  Be has additionally
brought over an Italian tailor-because there are none here!  They have already given this Taylorini
four hundred pounds, and he has already taken a house of thirty pounds a-year.  Monticelli
and the Visconti are to have a thousand guineas apiece; Amorevoli eight hundred and fifty:
this at the rate of the great singers, is not so extravagant; but to the Muscovita (though
the second woman never had above four hundred,) they give six; that is for secret services.
(298) By this you may judge of their frugality! I am quite uneasy for poor Harry, who will
thus be to pay for Lord Middlesex's pleasures! Good night; I have not time now to write more.
Yours, ever.

(290) Charles Sackville, Earl of Middlesex, and subsequently second Duke of Dorset, eldest
son of Lionel, first Duke of Dorset.  He was made a lord of the treasury in 1743, and master
of the horse to Frederick, Prince of Wales, in 1747-D.

(291) John Frederick, Esq. afterwards Sir John Frederick, Bart. by the death of his cousin,
Sir Thomas.  He was a commissioner of customs, and member of parliament for West Looe.-D.

(292) Francis Seymour Conway, first Earl and Marquis of Hertford, ambassador at Paris, lord
chamberlain of the household, etc.-D.

(293) Henry Seymour Conway, afterwards secretary of state, and a field marshal in the army.-D.

(294) Joseph Damer, Esq. created in 1753 Baron Milton, in Ireland, and by George III. an English
peer, by the same title, and eventually Earl of Dorchester.-D.

(295) Francis Greville, eighth Lord Brooke; created in 1746 Earl Brooke, and in 1759 Earl of
Warwick.-D.

(296) Mr. Brand of the Hoo, in Hertfordshire, one of the original members of the society of
Dilettanti.--D.

(297) If this anticipation of Walpole's was ever realized, "the pretty sum" was eventually
lost on the spot where it had been gained.  Vanneschi, having in 1753 undertaken the management
of the opera-house on his own account, continued it until 1756, when his differences with Mingotti,
which excited almost as much of the public attention as the rivalries of Handel and Bononcini
or of Faustina and Cuzzoni, completely prejudiced the public against him, and eventually ended
in making him a bankrupt, a prisoner in the Fleet, and at last a fugitive.-E.

(298) She was kept by Lord Middlesex.

187 Letter 41 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, Nov. 12, 1741.

Nothing is equal to my uneasiness about you.  I hear or think of nothing but Spanish embarkations
for Tuscany: before you receive this, perhaps, they will be at Leghorn.  Then, your brother
tells me you have received none of my letters.  He knows I have never failed writing once a
week, if not twice.  We have had no letters from You this post.  I shall not have the least
respite from anxiety, till I hear about you, and what you design to do. it is immpossible but
the great duke must lose Tuscany; and I suppose it is as certain, (I speak on probabilities,
for, upon honour, I know nothing of the matter,) that as soon as there is a peace, we shall
acknowledge Don Philip, and then you may return to Florence again.  In the mean while I will
ask Sir R. if it is possible to get your appointments continued, while you stay in readiness
at Bologna, Rome, Lucca, or where you choose.  I talk at random; but as I think so much of
you, I am trying to find out something that may be of service to you.  I write in infinite
hurry, and am called away, so scarce know what I say.  Lord Conway and his family are this
instant come to town, and have sent for me.

It is Admiral Vernon's birthday, (299) and the city-shops are full of favours, the streets
of marrowbones and cleavers, and the night will be full of mobbing, bonfires, and lights.

The opera does not succeed; Amorevoli has not sung yet; here is a letter to his wife; mind,
while he is ill, he sends to the Chiaretta!  The dances are infamous and ordinary.  Lord Chesterfield
was told that the Viscontina said she was but four-and-twenty: he answered, "I suppose she
means four-and-twenty stone!"

There is a mad parson goes about; he called to a sentinel the other day in the Park; "Did you
ever see the Leviathan?" "No." "Well, he is as like Sir.  R. W. as ever two devils were like
one another."

Never was such unwholesome weather! I have a great cold, and have not been well this fortnight:
even immortal majesty has had a looseness.

The Duke of Ancaster (300) and Lord James Cavendish (301) are dead.

This is all the news I know: I would I had time to write more; but I know you will excuse me
now.  If I wrote more, it would be still about the Italian expedition, I am so disturbed about
it. Yours, ever.

(299) Admiral Vernon was now in the height of his popularity, in consequence of his successful
attack upon Porto-Bello, in November, 1739, and the great gallantry he had shown upon that
occasion.  His determined and violen't opposition, as a member of parliament, to the measures
of the government, assisted in rendering him the idol of the mob, which he continued for many
years.-D.  [The admiral was actually elected for Rochester, Ipswich, and Penryn: he'was also
set up for the City of London, where he was beaten by two thousand votes; and in Westminster,
where he was beaten by four hundred.  After the affair of Porto-Bello, he took Chagre, and
continued in the service till 1748; when several matters which had passed between him and the
lords of the admiralty being laid before the king, be was struck off the list of flag officers.
He died in 1757.  A handsome monument was erected to his memory in Westminster Abbey.]

(300) Peregrine Bertie, second Duke of Ancaster and Kesteven, great chamberlain of England,
and chief justice in Eyre, north of Trent.  The report of his death was premature.  His grace
survived till the 1st of January.-E.

(301) The second son of William, second Duke of Devonshire.  He was colonel of a regiment of
foot-guards, and member for Malton.-E.

189 Letter 42 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, Nov. 23, 1741.

Your letter has comforted me much, if it can be called comfort to have one's uncertainty fluctuate
to the better side.  You make me hope that the Spaniards design on Lombardy ; my passion for
Tuscany, and anxiety for you, make me eager to believe it; but alas!  while I am in the belief
of this, they may be in the act of conquest in Florence, and poor you retiring politically!
How delightful is Mr. Chute for cleaving unto you like Ruth!  "Whither thou goest, I will go;
and where thou lodgest, I will lodge!" As to the merchants of Leghorn and their concerns, Sir
R. thinks you are mistaken, and that if the Spaniards come thither, they will by no means be
safe.  I own I write to you under a great dilemma; I flatter myself, all is well with you;
but if not, how disagreeable to have one's letters fall into strange hands.  I write, however.

A brother Of Mine, (302) Edward by name, has lately had a call to matrimony: the virgins name
was Howe. (303) He had agreed to take her with no fortune, she him with his four children.
The father of him, to get rid of his importunities, at last acquiesced.  The very moment he
had obtained this consent, he repented; and, instead of flying on the wings of love to notify
it, he went to his fair One, owned his father had mollified, but hoped she would be so good
as to excuse him. You cannot imagine what an entertaining fourth act of the opera we had the
other night.  Lord Vane, (304) in the middle of the pit, making love to my lady.  The Duke
of Newcastle (305) has lately given him three-score thousand pounds, to consent to cut off
the entail of the Newcastle estate.  The fool immediately wrote to his wife, to beg she would
return to him from Lord Berkeley; that he had got so much money, and now they might live comfortably:
but she will not live comfortably: she is at Lord Berkeley's house, whither go divers after
her.  Lady Townshend told me an admirable history; it is of our friend Lady Pomfret.  Somebody
that belonged to the Prince of Wales said, they were going to Court; it was objected that they
ought to say, going to Carlton House; that the only Court is where the king resides. Lady P.
with her paltry air of significant learning and absurdity, said, "Oh Lord! is there no Court
in England, but the king's? sure, there are many more! There is the Court of Chancery, the
Court of Exchequer, the Court of King's Bench, etc." Don't you love her?  Lord Lincoln does
her dauhter: he is come over, and met her the other night: he turned pale, spoke to her several
times in the evening, but not long, and sighed to me at going away.  He came over all alive;
and not only his uncle-duke, but even majesty is fallen in love with him.  He talked to the
king at his levee, without being spoken to.  That was always thought high treason; but I don't
know how the gruff gentleman liked it; and then he had been told that Lord Lincoln designed
to have made the campaicn, if we had gone to war; in short, he says, Lord Lincoln (306) is
the handsomest man in England

I believe I told you that Vernon's birthday passed quietly, but it was not designed to be pacific;
for at twelve at night, eight gentlemen, dressed like sailors, and masked, went round Covent
Garden with a drum, beating up for a volunteer mob, but it did not take; and they retired to
a great supper that was prepared for them at the Bedford Head, and ordered by Whitehead (307)
the author of Manners.  It has been written into the country that Sir R. has had two fits of
an apoplexy, and cannot live till Christmas; but I think he is recovered to be as well as ever.
To-morrow se'nnight is the Day! (308)  It is critical.  You shall hear faithfully.

The opera takes: Monticelli (309) pleases almost equal to Farinelli: Amorevoli is much liked;
but the poor, fine Viscontina scarce at all. (310)I carry the two former to-night to my Lady
Townshend's.

Lord Coventry (311) has had his son thrown out by the party: he went to Carlton House; the
prince asked him about the election.  "Sir," said he, "the Tories have betrayed me, as they
will you, the first time you have occasion for them."  The merchants have petitioned the King
for more guardships.  My lord president, (312) referred them to the Admiralty; but they bluntly
refused to go, and said they would have redress from the King himself.

I am called down to dinner, and cannot write more now.  I will thank dear Mr. Chute and the
Grifona next post.  I hope she and you liked your things.  Good night, my dearest child! Your
brother and I sit upon your affairs every morning. Yours ever.

(302) Second son of Sir Robert Walpole.  He was clerk of the pells, and afterwards knight of
the Bath. [Sir Edward died unmarried, in 1784, leaving three natural daughters; Laura, married
to the Hon. and Rev.  Frederick Keppel, afterwards Bishop of Exeter; maria, married, first
to the Earl of Waldegrave, and, secondly to the Duke of Gloucester; and Charlotte, married
to the Earl of Dysart.]

(303) Eldest sister of the Lord Viscount Howe.  She was soon after this married to a relation
of her own name. [John Howe, Esq. of Hanslop, Bucks.]

(304) William, second Viscount Vane, in Ireland.  His "lady" was the too-celebrated Lady Vane,
first married to Lord William Hamilton, and secondly to Lord Vane; who has given her own extraordinary
and disreputable adventures to the world, in Smollett's novel of "Peregrine Pickle," under
the title of "Memoirs of a Lady of Quality." She is also immortalized in different ways, by
Johnson, in his ,Vanity of Human Wishes," and by Sir Charles Hanbury Williams, in one of his
Odes.-D. [She was the daughter of Mr. Hawes, a South Sea director, and died in 1788.  Lord
Vane died in 1789.  Boswell distinctly states, that the lady mnentioned in Johnson's couplet
"was not the celebrated Lady Vane, whose Memoirs were given to the public by Dr. Smollett,
but Ann Vane, who was mistress to Frederick Prince of Wales, and died in 1736, not long before
Johnson settled in London."  See Boswell's Johnson, vol. i. p. 226, ed. 1835.]

(305) Uncle of Lord Vane, whose father, Lord Barnard, had married Elizabeth, eldest daughter
of Gilbert Holles, Earl of Clare, and sister and coheir of John Duke of Newcastle.

(306) Henry Clinton, ninth Earl of Lincoln, succeeded as Duke of Newcastle in 1768, on the
death of his uncle, the minister.

(307) Paul Whitehead, a satirical poet of bad character, was the son of a tailor, who lived
in Castle-yard, Holborn.  He wrote several abusive poems, now forgotten, entitled "The State
Dances," "Manners," "The Gymnasiad," etc.  In "Manners," having attacked some members of the
House of Lords, that assembly summoned Dodsley, the publisher, before them, (Whitehead having
absconded,) and subsequently imprisoned him.  In politics, Whitehead was a follower of Bubb
Dodington; in private life be was the friend and companion of the profligate Sir Francis Dashwood,
Wilkes, Churchill, etc. and, like them, was a member of the Hell-fire Club, which held its
orgies at Mednam Abbey, in Bucks.  The estimation in which he was held even by his friends
may be judged of by the lines in which Churchill has damned him to everlasting fame:

"May I (can worse disgrace on mankind fall?) Be born a Whitehead and baptized a Paul."

Paul Whitehead died in 1774.-D.  [The proceedings in the House of Lords against the author
of "Manners" which took place in February, 1739, was, in the opinion of Dr. Johnson, "intended
rather to intimidate Pope, than to punish Whitehead."]

(308) The day the parliament was to meet.

(309) His voice was clear, sweet, and free from defects of every kind.  He was a chaste performer,
and never hazarded any difficulty which he was not certain of executing with the utmost precision.
He was, moreover, an excellent actor, so that nothing but the recent remembrance of the gigantic
talents of Farinelli, and the grand and majestic style of Senesino, could have lefl an English
audience any thing to wish.-E.

(310) Amorevoli was an admirable tenor.  "I have heard," says Dr. Burney, "better voices of
his pitch, but never, on the stage, more taste and expression.  The Visconti had a shrill flexible
voice, and pleased more in rapid songs than those that required high colouring and pathos."-E.

(311) William, fifth Earl of Coventry.  He died in 1751.-D.

(312) Spencer Compton, Earl of Wilmington, a man of moderate abilities, but who had filled
many great offices.  He died in 1743, when his titles extinguished.-D.

191 Letter 43 To Sir Horace Mann. Nov. 26, 1741.

I don't write you a very long letter, because you will see the inclosed to Mr. Chute.  I forgot
to thank you last post for the songs, and your design on the Maltese cats.

It is terrible to be in this uncertainty about you! We have not the least news about the Spaniards,
more than what you told us, of a few vessels being seen off Leghorn.  I send about the post,
and ask Sir R. a thousand times a-day.

I beg to know if you have never heard any thing from Parker about my statue: (313) it was to
have been finished last june.  What is the meaning he does not mention it? If it is done, I
beg it may not stir from Rome till there is no more danger of Spaniards.

If you get out of your hurry, I will trouble you with a new commission: I find I cannot live
without Stosch's (314) intaglio of the Gladiator, with the vase, upon a granite.  You know
I offered him fifty pounds: I think, rather than not have it, I would give a hundred.  What
will he do if the Spaniards should come to Florence? Should he be driven to straits, perhaps
he would part with his Meleager too.  You see I am as eager about baubles as if I were going
to Louis at the Palazzo Vecchio! You can't think what a closet I have fitted up; such a mixture
of French gaiety and Roman virtu! you would be in love with it: I have not rested till it was
finished: I long to have you see it. Now I am angry that I did not buy the Hermaphrodite; the
man would have sold it for twenty-five sequins: do buy it for me; it was a friend of Bianchi.
Can you forgive me'! I write all this upon the hope and presumption that the Spaniards go to
Lombardy.  Good night. Yours, ever.

(313) A copy of the Livia Mattei, which Mr. W. designed for a tomb of his mother: it was erected
in Henry VII.'s Chapel, in Westminster Abbey, in 1754.

(314) He gave it afterwards to Lord Duncannon, for procuring him the arrears of his pension.

192 Letter 44 To Sir Horace Mann. Downing Street, Dec. 3, 1741, O. S.

Here I have two letters from you to answer.  You cannot conceive my joy on the prospect of
the Spaniards going to Lombardy: all advices seem to confirm it.  There is no telling you what
I have felt, and shall feel, till I am certain you are secure.  You ask me about Admiral Haddock;
you must not wonder that I have told you nothing of him: they know nothing of him here.  He
had discretionary powers to act as he should judge proper from his notices.  He has been keeping
in the Spanish fleet at Cales. (315)  Sir R. says, if he had let that go out, to prevent the
embarkation, the Tories would have complained, and said he had favoured the Spanish trade,
under pre tence of hindering an expedition which was never designed.  It was strongly reported
last week that Haddock had shot himself; a satire on his having been neutral, as they call
it. The parliament met the day before yesterday, and there were four hundred and eighty-seven
members present.  They did no business, only proceeded to choose a speaker, which was, unanimously,
Mr. Onslow, moved for by Mr. Pelham, (316) and seconded by Mr. Clutterbuck.  But the Opposition,
to flatter his pretence to popularity and impartiality, call him their own speaker.  They intend
to oppose Mr. Earle's being chairman of the committee, and to set up a Dr. Lee, a civilian.
To- morrow the King makes his speech.  Well, I won't keep you any longer in suspense.  The
Court will have a majority of forty-a vast number for the outset: a good majority, like a good
sum of money, soon makes itself bigger.  The first great point will be the Westminster election;
another, Mr. Pultney's (317) election at Heydon; Mr. Chute's brother is one of the petitioners.
It will be an ugly affair for the Court, for Pultney has asked votes of the courtiers, and
said Sir R. was indifferent about it; but he is warmer than I almost ever saw him, and declared
to Churchill, (318) of whom Pultney claims a promise, that he must take Walpole or Pultney.
The Sackville finally were engaged too, by means of George Berkeley, brother to Lady Betty
Germain, (319) whose influence with the Dorset I suppose you know; but the King was so hot
with his grace about his sons, that I believe they will not venture to follow their inclinations
**** to vote (320) for Pultney, though he has expressed great concern about it to Sir R.

So much for politics! for I suppose you know that Prague is taken by storm, in a night's time.
I forgot to tell you that Commodore Lestock, with twelve ships, has been waiting for a wind
this fortnight, to join Haddock. (321)

I write to you in defiance of a violent headache, which I got last night at another of Sir
T. Robinson's balls.  There were six hundred invited, and I believe above two hundred there.
Lord Lincoln, out of prudence, danced with Lady Caroline Fitzroy, and Mr. Conway, with Lady
Sophia; the two couple were just mismatched, as every body soon perceived, by the attentions
of each man to the woman he did not dance with, and the emulation of either lady: it was an
admirable scene.  The ball broke up at three; but Lincoln, Lord Holderness, Lord Robert Sutton,
(322) Young Churchill (323) and a dozen more grew 'oily,' stayed till seven in the morning,
and drank thirty-two bottles.

I will take great care to send the knee-buckles and pocket-book; I have got them, and Madame
Pucci's silks, and only wait to hear that Tuscany is quiet, and then I will convey them by
the first ship.  I would write to them to-night, but have not time now; old Cibber, (324) plays
to-night, and all the world will be there.

Here is another letter from Amorevoli, who is out of his wits at not hearing from his wife.
Adieu! my dearest child.  How happy shall I be when I know you are in peace; Yours, ever.

(315) Cadiz.

(316) The Right Hon. Henry Pelham, so long in conjunction with his brother, the Duke of Newcastle,
one of the principal rulers of this country.  He was a man of some ability, and a tolerable
speaker.  The vacillations, the absurdity, the foolish jealousy of the duke, greatly injured
the stability and respectability of Mr. Pelham's administration.  Mr. Pelham was born in 1696,
and died in 1754.-D.

(317) William Pulteney, afterwards Earl of Bath, whose character and history are too well known
to require to be here enlarged upon.-D.

(318) General Charles Churchill, groom of the bedchamber to the King.

(319) Lady Betty Berkeley, married to the notorious adventurer and gambler, Sir John Germain,
who had previously married the divorced Duchess of Norfolk, (Lady Mary Mordaunt,) by whose
bequest he became possessed of the estate of Drayton, in Northamptonshire, which he left on
his own death to Lady Betty, his second @wife.  Lady Betty left it to Lord George Sackville,
third son of Lionel first Duke of Dorset.  Sir John Germain was so ignorant, that he is said
to have left a legacy to Fair Matthew Decker, as the author of St. Matthew's Gospel.-D.

(320) sic, in the manuscript.-D.

(321) But for this circumstance, and the junction of the French squadron, Haddock would certainly
have destroyed the Spanish fleet, and thereby escaped the imputation which was circulated with
much industry, that his hands had been tied up by a neutrality entered into for Hanover; than
which nothing could be more false.  These reports, though ostensibly directed against Haddock,
were, in reality, aimed at Sir Robert Walpole, a general election being at hand, and his opponents
wishing to render him as unpopular with the people as possible.-E.

(322) Second son of John, third Duke of Rutland.  He took the name of Sutton, on inheriting
the estate of his maternal grandfather, Robert Sutton, Lord Lexington.-D.

(323) Natural son of General Charles Churchill, afterwards married to Mary, daughter of Sir
Robert Walpole.-D.

(324) Colley Cibber, the celebrated dramatic author and actor. He had left the stage in 1731;
but still occasionally acted, in spite of his age, for he was now seventy.-D. [For those occasional
performances he is said to have had fifty guineas per night.  So late as 1745, he appeared
in the character of Pandulph, the pope's legate, in his own tragedy, called "Papal Tyranny."
He died in 1757.]

194 letter 45 To Sir Horace Mann. Somerset House, (for I write to you wherever I find myself,)
Dec. 10, 1741.

I have got no letter from you yet, the post should have brought it yesterday.  The Gazette
says, that the cardinal (325) has declared that they will suffer no expedition against Tuscany.
I wish he had told me so! if they preserve this guarantee, personally, I can forgive their
breaking the rest. But I long for your letter; every letter now from each of us is material.
You will be almost as impatient to hear of the parliament, as I of Florence.  The lords on
Friday went upon the King's speech; Lord Chesterfield made a very fine speech against the address,
all levelled at the House of Hanover.  Lord Cholmley, they say, answered him well.  Lord Halifax
(326) spoke Very ill, and was answered by little Lord Raymond, (327) who always will answer
him.  Your friend Lord Sandwich (328) affronted his grace of Grafton, (329) extremely, who
was ill, and sat out of his place, by calling him to order; it was indecent in such a boy to
a man of his age and rank: the blood of Fitzroy will not easily pardon it.  The court had a
majority of forty-one, with some converts.

On Tuesday we had the Speech; there were great differences among the party; the Jacobites,
with Shippen (330) and Lord Noel Somerset at their head, were for a division, Pultney and the
Patriots against one; (332) the ill success in the House of lords had frightened them; we had
no division, but a very warm battle between Sir.  R.  and Poltney.  The latter made a fine
speech, very personal, on the state of affairs.  Sir R. with as much health, as much spirits,
as much force and command as ever, answered him for an hour; said, He hadbeen taxed with all
our misfortunes; but did he raise the war in Germany? or advise the war with Spain? did he
kill the late Emperor or King of Prussia?' did he counsel this King? or was he first minister
to the King of Poland?  did he kindle the war betwixt Muscovy and Sweden?" For our troubles
at home, he said, "all the grievances of this nation were owing to the Patriots." They laughed
much at this; but does he want proofs of it?  he said, They talked much of an equilibrium in
this parliament, (333) and of what they designed against him; if it was so, the sooner he knew
it the better; and there-fore if any man would move for a day to examine the state of the nation,
he would second it." Mr. Pultney did move for it; Sir R. did second it, and it is fixed for
the twenty-first of January.  Sir R. repeated some words of Lord Chesterfield's in the House
of Lords, that this was a time for truth, for plain truth for English truth, and hinted at
the reception (334) his lordship had met in France.  After these speeches of such consequence,
and from such men, Mr. Lyttelton (335) got up to justify, or rather to flatter Lord Chesterfield,
though every body then had forgot that he had been mentioned.  Danvers (336) who is a rough,
rude beast, but now and then mouths out some humour, said, "that Mr. P. and Sir R. were like
two old bawds, debauching young members."

That day was a day of triumph, but yesterday (Wednesday) the streamers of victory did not fly
so gallantly.  It was the day of receiving petitions; Mr. Pultney presented an immense piece
of parchment, which he said he could but just lift; it was the Westminster petition, and is
to be heard next Tuesday, when we shall all have our brains knocked out by the mob; so if you
don't hear from me next post, you will conclude my head was a little out of order.  After this
we went upon a cornish petition, presented by Sir William Yonge, (337) which drew on a debate
and a division, when lo! we were but 222 to 215-how do you like a majority of seven? The Opposition
triumphs highly, and with reason; one or two such victories, as Pyrrhus, the member for Macedon,
said, will be the ruin of us.  I look upon it now, that the question is, Downing Street or
the Tower; will you come and see a body, if one should happen to lodge at the latter?  There
are a thousand pretty things to amuse you; the lions, the Armoury, the crown, and the axe that
beheaded Anna Bullon.  I design to make interest for the room where the two princes were smothered;
in long winter evenings, when one wants company, (for I don't suppose that many people will
frequent me then,) one may sit and scribble verses against Crouch-back'd Richard, and dirges
on the sweet babes.  If I die there, and have my body thrown into a wood, I am too old to be
buried by robin redbreasts, am not I?

Bootle, (338) the prince's chancellor, made a most long and stupid speech; afterwards, Sir
R. called to him, "Brother Bootle, take care you don't get my old name."  "What's that?" "Blunderer."

You can't conceive how I was pleased with the vast and deserved applause that Mr. Chute's (339)
brother, the lawyer, got: I never heard a clearer or a finer speech.  When I went home, "Dear
Sir," said I to Sir R. "I hope Mr. Chute will carry his election for Heydon; he would be a
great loss to you." He replied. "We will not lose him."  I, who meddle with nothing, especially
elections, and go to no committees, interest myself extremely for Mr. Chute.

Old Marlborough (340) is dying-but who can tell! last year she had lain a great while ill,
without speaking; her physicians said, "She must be blistered, or she will die." She called
out, "I won't be blistered, and I won't die." If she takes the same resolution now, I don't
believe she will. (341)

Adieu! my dear child: I have but room to say, yours, ever.

(325) Cardinal Fleury, first minister of France.

(326) George Montague Dunk, second Earl of Halifax, of the last creation.  Under the reign
of George III., he became secretary of state, and was so unfortunate in that capacity as to
be the opponent of Wilkes, on the subject of General Warrants, by which he is now principally
remembered.-D.

(327) Robert, second Lord Raymond, only son of the chief justice of that name and title.-D.

(328) John Montagu, fourth Earl of Sandwich, passed through a long life of office, and left
behind him n indifferent character, both in public and private He was, however, a man of some
ability.-D.

(329) Charles Fitzroy, second Duke of Grafton, and grandson of Charles II., was a person of
considerable weight and influence at the court of George II., where he long held the post of
chamberlain of the household.

(330) "Honest Will Shippen," as he was called, or ,Downright Shippen," as Pope terms him, was
a zealous Jacobite member of parliament, possessed of considerable talents, and a vehement
opposer of Sir Robert Walpole's government.  He, however, did justice to that able minister,
for he was accustomed to say, "Robin and I are honest men; but as for those fellows in long
perriwigs" (meaning the Tories of the day,) " they only want to get into office themselves."
He was the author of a satirical poem, entitled, "Faction Displayed," which possesses considerable
merit.-D. [Shippen was born in 1672, and died in 1743.  Sir Robert Walpole repeatedly declared,
that he would not say who was corrupted, but he would say who was not corruptible-that man
was Shippen.  His speeches generally contained some pointed period, which he uttered with great
animation.  He usually spoke in a low tone of voice, with too great rapidity, and held his
glove before his mouth.]

(331) Lord Charles Noel Somerset, second son of Henry, second Duke of Beaufort.  He succeeded
to the family honours in 1746, when his elder brother, Henry, the third duke, died without
children.-D. [After the death of Sir William Wyndham, which happened in 1740, Lord Noel Somerset
was considered as the rising head of the Tory interest.  "He was," says Tindal, "a man of sense,
spirit, and activity, unblameable in his morals, but questionable in his political capacity."
He died in 1756.)

(332) Mr. Pulteney declared against dividing; observing, with a witticism, that "dividing was
not the way to multiply."

(333) In speaking of the balance of power, Mr. Pulteney had said, ,He did not know how it was
abroad, not being in secrets, but congratulated the House, that he had not, for these many
years, known it so near an equilibrium as it now was there."-E.

(334) Lord Chesterfield had been sent by the party, in the preceding September, to France,
to request the Duke of Ormond (at Avignon,) to obtain the Pretender's order to the Jacobites,
to vote against Sir R. W. upon any question whatever; many of them having either voted for
him, or retired, on the famous motion the last year for removing him from the, King's councils.
[Lord Chesterfield's biographer, Dr. Maty states that the object of his lordship's visit to
France was the restoration of his health, which required the assistance of a warmer climate.
The reception he met with during his short stay at Paris, is thus noticed in a letter from
Mr. Pitt, of the 10th of September:-" I hope you liked the court of France as well as it liked
you.  The uncommon distinctions I hear the Cardinal (Fleury) showed you, are the best proof
that, old as he is, his judgment is as good as ever.  As this great minister has taken so much
of his idea, of the men in power here, from the person of a great negotiator who has left the
stage, (Lord Waldegrave,) I am very glad he has, had an opportunity, once before he dies, of
forming an idea of those out of power from my Lord Chesterfield." See Chatham Correspondence,
vol. i. p. 3.]

(335) George Lyttelton, afterwards created Lord lyttelton.-D.

(336) Joseph Danvers, Esq. of Swithland, in the county of Leicester, at this time member for
Totness.  In 1746 he was created a baronet.  He married Frances, the daughter of thomas babington,
Esq. of Rothley Temple, Leicestershire.-E.

(337) the Right Hon. Sir William Yonge, Bart., secretary at war, to which office he had succeeded
in May, 1735.  Walpole, who tells us (Memoires, i. p. 20,) that " he was vain, extravagant,
and trifling; simple out of the House, and too ready at assertions in it," adds, "that his
vivacity and parts, whatever the cause was, made him shine, and he was always content with
the lustre that accompanied fame, without thinking of what was reflected from rewarded fame-a
convenient ambition to ministers, who had few such disinterested combatants.  Sir Robert Walpole
always said of him 'that nothing but Yonge's character could keep down his parts, and nothing
but his parts support his character.'"  That these parts were very great is shown by the fact,
that Sir Robert Walpole often, when he did not care to enter early into the debate himself,
gave Yonge his notes, as the latter came late into the House, from which be could speak admirably
and fluently, though he had missed the preceding discussion.  Sir William, who had a proneness
to poetry, wrote the epilogue to Johnson's tragedy of "Irene." See Boswell's Johnson,vol.iii.p.191.

(338) Sir Thomas Bootle, chancellor to the Prince of Wales; a dull, heavy man, and who is,
therefore, ironically called, by Sir C. H. Williams, "Bright Bootle,"-D.

(339) Francis Chute, an eminent lawyer, second brother of Anthony Chute, of the Vine, in Hampshire,
had, in concert with Luke Robinson, another lawyer, disputed Mr. Pultney's borough of Heydon
with him at the general elections and been returned but on a petition, and the removal of Sir
R. W. they were voted out of their seats, and Mr. Chute died soon after.-E.

(340) Sarah, Dowager Duchess of Marlborough.

(341) Nor did she, Her grace survived the date of this letter nearly three years.  She died
on the 18th of October 1744, being then eighty-four years of age.-E.

197 Letter 46 To Sir Horace Mann. Wednesday night, eleven o'clock, Dec. 16, 1741.

Remember this day.

Nous voil`a de la Minorit`e! entens-tu cela! h`e! My dear child, since you will have these
ugly words explained, they just mean that we ar-- metamorphosed into the minority.  This was
the night of choosing a chairman of the committee of elections.  Gyles Earle, (342) (as in
the two last parliaments) was named by the Court; Dr. Lee, (343) a civilian, by the Opposition,
a man of a fair character. (344)  Earle was formerly a dependent on the Duke of Argyle,(345)
is of remarkable covetousness and wit, which he has dealt out largely against the Scotch and
the Patriots.  It was a day of much expectation, and both sides had raked together all probabilities:
I except near twenty who are in town, but stay to vote on a second question, when the majority
may be decided to either party.  have you not read of such in story? Men, who would not care
to find themselves on the weaker side, contrary to their intent.  In short, the determined
sick were dragged out of their beds; zeal came in a great coat.  There were two vast dinners
at two taverns, for either-party; at six we met in the House.  Sir William Yonge, seconded
by my uncle Horace, (346) moved for Mr. Earle: Sir Paul Methuen (347) and Sir Watkyn Williams
(348) proposed Dr. Lee-and carried him, by a majority of four: 242 against 238-the greatest
number, I believe, that ever lost a question.  You have no idea of their huzza! unless you
can conceive how people must triumph after defeats of twenty years together.  We had one vote
shut out, by coming a moment too late; one that quitted us, for having been ill used by the
Duke of Newcastle but yesterday-for which in all probability, he will use him well to-morrow-I
mean, for quitting us. Sir Thomas Lowther,(349) Lord Hartington's (350) uncle, was fetched
down by him and voted against us.  Young Ross,(351) son to a commissioner of the customs, and
saved from the dishonour of not liking to go to the West Indies when it was his turn, by Sir
R.s giving him a lieutenancy, voted against us; and Tom Hervey,(352) who is always with us,
but is quite mad; and being asked why he left us, replied, "Jesus knows my thoughts; one day
I blaspheme, and pray the next."  so, you see what accidents were against us, or we had carried
our point.  They cry, Sir R. miscalculated: how should he calculate, when there are men like
Ross, and fifty others he could name! It was not very pleasant to be stared in the face to
see how one bore it-you can guess at my bearing it, who interest myself so little about any
thing.  I have had a taste of what I am to meet from all sorts of people.  The moment we had
lost the question, I went from the heat of the house into the Speaker's chamber, and there
were some fifteen others of us-an under door-keeper thought a question was new put, when it
was not, and, withou@ giving us notice, clapped the door to.  I asked him how he dared lock
us out without calling us: he replied insolently, "It was his duty, and he would do it again:"
one of the party went to him, commended him, and told him he should be punished if he acted
otherwise.  Sir R. is in great spirits, and still sanguine.  I have so little experience, that
I shall not be amazed at whatever scenes follow.  My dear child, we have triumphed twenty years;
is it strange that fortune should at last forsake us; or ought we not always to expect it,
especially in this kingdom?  They talk loudly of the year forty-one, and promise themselves
all the confusions that began a hundred years ago from the same date.  I hope they prognosticate
wrong; but should it be so, I can be happy in other places.  One reflection I shall have, very
sweet, though very melancholy; that if our family is to be the sacrifice that shall first pamper
discord, at least the one,' the part of it that interested all my concerns, and must have suffered
from our ruin, is safe, secure, and above the rage of confusion: nothing in this world can
touch her peace now!

To-morrow and Friday we go upon the Westminster election-you will not wonder, shall you, if
you hear the next post that we have lost that too?  Good night. Yours, ever.

(342) Giles Earle, Esq. one of the lords of the treasury and who had been chairman of the committees
of the House of Commons from 1727 to the date of this letter.  He had been successively groom
of the bedchamber to the Prince of Wales in 1718, clerk comptroller of the King"s household
in 1720, commissioner of the Irish revenue in 1728, and a lord of the treasury in 1738.  Mr.
Earle was a man of broad coarse wit, and a lively image of his style and sentiments has been
preserved by Sir C. H. Williams, in his "Dialogue between Giles Earle and Bubb Dodington."-E.

(343) George Lee, brother to the lord-chief justice; he was appointed one of the lords of the
admiralty on the following change, which post he resigned on the disgrace of his patron, Lord
Granville.  He was designed by the Prince of Wales for his first minister, and, immediately
on the prince's death, was appointed treasurer to the princess dowager, and soon after made
dean of the arches, a knight, and privy counsellor.  He died in 1758.

(344) In a letter to Dodington, written from Spa, on the 8th of September, Lord Chesterfield
says:-"I am for acting at the very beginning of the session.  The court generally proposes
some servile and shameless tool of theirs to be chairman of the committee of privileges.  Why
should not we, therefore, pick up some Whig of a fair character, and with personal connexions,
to set up in opposition? I think we should be pretty strong upon this point."-E.

(345) John, the great Duke of Argyle and Greenwich.-D.

(346) Horace Walpole, younger brother of Sir Robert, created. in his old age, Lord Walpole
of Wolterton.  He was commonly called "Old Horace," to distinguish him from his nephew, the
writer of these letters.-D.

(347) The son of John Methuen, Esq. the diplomatist, and author of the celebrated Methuen treaty
with Portugal.  Sir Paul was a knight of the Bath, and died in 1757.-D.

(348) Sir Watkyn Williams Wynn, Bart. the third baronet of the family, was long one of the
leaders in the House of Commons.-D. (349) Sir Thomas Lowther, Bart.  of Holker, in Lancashire.
He had married Lady Elizabeth Cavendish, daughter of the second Duke of Devonshire.-D.

(350) Afterwards the fourth Duke of Devonshire.

(351) Charles Ross, killed in flannders, at the battle of Fontenoy, 1745.

(352) Thomas Hervey, second son of John, first Earl of Bristol, 'and Surveyor of the royal
gardens.  He was at this time writing his famous letter to Sir Thomas Hanmer. [With whose wife
he had eloped.  In the letter alluded to, he expresses his conviction that his conduct was
natural and delicate, and that, finally, in heaven, Lady Hanmer, in the distribution of wives,
would be considered to be his.  Dr. Johnson (to whom he had left a legacy of fifty pounds,
but -,afterwards gave it him in his life-time) characterises him as "very vicious."  " Alas!"
observes Mr. Croker, "it is but too probable that he was disordered in mind, and that what
was called vice was. in truth, disease, and required a madhouse rather than a prison." He died
in 1775.  See Boswell's Johnson, Vol. iii.  P. 18, ed. 1835.)

(353) His mother, Catherine Lady Walpole, who died August 20, 1737.

199 Letter 47 To Sir Horace Mann. Thursday, six o'clock. [Dec. 17, 1741.

You will hardly divine where I am writing to you-in the Speaker's chamber.  The House is examining
witnesses on the Westminster election, which will not be determined to-day; I am not in haste
it should, for I believe we shall lose it.  A great fat fellow, a constable, on their side,
has just deposed, that Lord Sundon,(355) and the high constable, took him by the collar at
the election, and threw him down stairs.  Do you know the figure of Lord Sundon? If you do,
only think of that little old creature throwing any man down stairs!

As I was coming down this morning, your brother brought me a long letter from you, in answer
to mine of the 12th of November.  You try to make me mistrust the designs of Spain against
Tuscany, but I will hope yet: hopes are all I have for any thing I know!

As to the young man, I will see his mother the first moment I can; and by next post, hope to
give you a definite answer, whether he will submit to be a servant or not; in every other respect,
I am sure he will please you.

Your friend, Mr. Fane,(356) would not come for us last night, nor will vote till after the
Westminster election: be is brought into parliament by the Duke of Bedford,(357) and is unwilling
to disoblige him in this.  We flattered ourselves with better success; for last Friday, after
sitting till two in the morning we carried a Cornish election in four divisions-the first by
a majority of six, then of twelve, then of fourteen, and lastly by thirty-six.  You can't imagine
the zeal of the young men on both sides: Lord Fitzwilliam, Lord Hartington, and my friend Coke
(358) on ours, are warm as possible; Lord Quarendon (359) and Sir Francis Dashwood (360) are
as violent on theirs: the former speaks often and well.  But I am talking to you of nothing
but parliament; why, really, all one's ideas are stuffed with it, and you yourself will not
dislike to hear things so material.  The Opposition who invent every method of killing Sir
R., intend to make us sit on Saturdays; but how mean and dirty is it, how scandalous! when
they can't ruin him by the least plausible means, to murder him by denying him air and exercise.(361)
There was a strange affair happened on Saturday; it was strange, yet very English.  One Nourse,
an old gamester, said, in the coffee-house, that Mr. Shuttleworth, a member, only pretended
to be ill.  This was told to Lord Windsor,(362) his friend, who quarrelled with Nourse, and
the latter challenged him.  My lord replied, he would not fight him, he was too old.  The other
replied, he was not too old to fight with pistols.  Lord Windsor still refused: Nourse, in
a rage, went home and cut his own throat.  This was one of the odd ways in which men are made.

I have scarce seen Lady Pomfret lately, but I am sure Lord Lincoln is not going to marry her
daughter.  I am not surprised at her sister being shy of receiving civilities from you-that
was English too!

Say a great deal for me to the Chutes.  How I envy your snug suppers! I never have such suppers!
Trust me, if we fall, all the grandeur, all the envied grandeur of our house, will not cost
me a sigh: it has given me no pleasure while we have it, and will give me no pain when I part
with it.  My liberty, my ease, and choice of my own friends and company, will sufficiently
counterbalance the crowds of Downing-street. I am so sick of it all, that if we are victorious
or not, I propose leaving England in the spring,.  Adieu! Yours, ever and ever.

(355) William clayton, Lord Sundon, in Ireland, so created in 1735.  His wife was a favourite
of Queen Caroline, to whom she was mistress of the robes.

(356) Charles Fane, Only son of Lord Viscount Fane, whom he succeeded, had been minister at
Florence.

(357) John Russell, fourth Duke of Bedford.-D.

(358) Edward, Lord Viscount Coke, only son of the Earl of Leicester.  He died in 1753.

(359) George Henry Lee, Lord Viscount Quarendon, eldest son of the Earl of Lichfield, whom
he succeeded in that title.

(360) Sir Francis Dashwood, Bart., afterwards Lord Le Despencer.  Under the administration
of Lord Bute he was, for a short time, chancellor of the exchequer.-D.

(361) Sir Robert always went every Saturday to Newpark, Richmond, to hunt.  (From his early
youth, Sir Robert was fond of the diversions of the field.  He was accustomed to hunt in Richmond
Park with a pack of beagles.  On receiving a packet of letters, he usually opened that from
his gamekeeper first.] (362) Herbert Windsor Hickman, second Viscount Windsor in Ireland, and
Baron Montjoy of the Isle of Wight. [His lordship died in 1758, when all his honours, in default
of male issue, became extinct.]

201 Letter 48 To Sir Horace Mann. Christmas eve, 1741.

My dearest child, if I had not heard regularly from you, what a shock it would have given me!
The other night at the opera, Mr. Worseley, with his peevish face, half smiling through ill-nature,
told me (only mind!) by way of news, "that he heard Mr. Mann was dead at Florence!"' How kind!
To entertain one with the chitchat of the town, a man comes and tells one that one's dearest
friend is dead! I am sure he would have lost his speech if he had had any thing pleasurable
to tell.  If ever there is a metempsychosis, his soul will pass into a vulture and prey upon
carcases after a battle, and then go and bode at the windows of their relations.  But I will
say no more of him; I will punish him sufficiently, if sufficiently there be, by telling him
you are perfectly well: you are, are you not? Send me certificate signed by Dr. Cocchi,(363)
and I will choke him with it: another's health must be venomous to him.

Sir Francis Dashwood too,-as you know all ill-natured people hear all ill news,-told me he
heard you was ill: I vowed you was grown as strong as the Farnese Hercules.  Then he desires
you will send him four of the Volterra urns, of the chimney-piece size; send them with any
of my things; do, or he will think I neglected it because he is our enemy; and I would not
be peevish, not to be like them.  He is one of the most inveterate; they list under Sandys,(364)
a parcel of them with no more brains than their general; but being malicious they pass for
ingenious, as in these countries fogs are reckoned warm weather. Did you ever hear what Earle
said of Sandys?  "that he never laughed but once, and that was when his best friend broke his
thigh."

Last Thursday I wrote you word of our losing the chairman of the committee.  This winter is
to be all ups and downs.  The next day (Friday) we had a most complete victory.  Mr. Pultney
moved for all papers and letters, etc. between the King and the Queen of Hungary and their
ministers.  Sir R. agreed to give them all the papers relative to those transactions, only
desiring to except the letters written by the two sovereigns themselves.  They divided, and
we carried it, 237 against 227.  They moved to have those relations to France, Prussia, and
Holland.  Sir R. begged they would defer asking for those of Prussia till the end of January,
at which time a negotiation would be at an end with that King, which now he might break off,
if he knew it was to be made public.  Mr. Pultney persisted; but his obstinacy, which might
be so prejudicial to the public, revolted even his own partisans, and seven of them spoke against
him.  We carried that question by twenty-four; and another by twenty-one, against sitting on
the next day (Saturday).  Monday and Tuesday we went on the Westminster election.  Murray (365)
spoke divinely; he Was their counsel.  Lloyd (366) answered him extremely well: but on summing
up the evidence on both sides, and in his reply, Murray was in short, beyond what was ever
heard at the bar.That day (Tuesday) we went on the merits of the cause, and at ten at night
divided, and lost it.  They had 220, we 216; so that the election was declared void.  You see
four is a fortunate number to them.  We had forty-one more members in town, who would not,
or could not come down.  The time. is a touchstone for wavering consciences.  All the arts,
money, promises, threats,, all the arts of the. former year 41, are applied; and self-interest,
in the shape of Scotch members-nay, and of English ones, operates to the aid of their party,
and to the defeat of ours.  Lord Doneraile,(367) a young Irishman, brought in by the court,
was petitioned against, though his competitor had but one vote.  This young man spoke as well
as ever any one spoke in his own defence insisted on the petition being heard, and concluded
with declaring, that, "his cause was his Defence, and Impartiality must be his support." Do
you know that, after this, he went and engaged if they would withdraw the petition, to vote
with them in the Westminster affair!  His friends reproached him so strongly with his meanness,
that he was shocked, and went to Mr. Pultney to get off; Mr. P. told him he had given him his
honour, and he would not release him, though Lord Doneraile declared it was against his conscience:
but he voted with them, and lost us the next question which they put (for censuring the High
Bailiff) by his single vote; for in that the numbers were 217 against 215: the alteration of
his vote would have made it even; and then the Speaker, I suppose, would have chosen the merciful
side, and decided for us. After this, Mr. Pultney, with an affected humanity, agreed to commit
the High Bailiff only to the serjeant-at-arms.  Then, by a majority of six, they voted that
the soldiers, who had been sent for after the poll was closed, to save Lord Sundon's (368)
life, had come in a military and illegal manner, and influenced the election.  In short, they
determined, as Mr. Murray had dictated to them, that no civil magistrate, on any pretence whatsoever,
though he may not be able to suppress even a riot by the assistance of the militia and constables,
may call in the aid of the army.  Is not this doing the work of the Jacobites?  have they any
other view than to render the riot act useless? and then they may rise for the Pretender whenever
they please.  Then they moved to punish Justice Blackerby for calling in the soldiers; and
when it was desired that he might be heard in his own defence, they said he had already confessed
his crime.  Do but think on it! without being accused, without knowing, or being told it was
a crime, a man gives evidence in another cause, not his own, and then they call it his-own
accusation of himself, and would condemn him for it. You see what justice we may expect if
they actually get the majority.  But this was too strong a pill for one of their own leaders
to swallow: Sir John Barnard(369 did propose and persuade them to give him a day to be heard.
In short we sat till half an hour after four in the morning; the longest day that ever was
known.  I say nothing of myself, for I could but just speak when I came away; but Sir Robert
was as well as ever, and spoke with as much spirit as ever, at four o'clock. This way they
will not kill him; I Will not answer for any other. As he came out, Whitehead,(370) the author
of Manners, and agent with one Carey, a surgeon, for the Opposition, said "D-n him, how well
he looks!"  Immediately after their success, Lord Gage (371) went forth, and begged there might
be no mobbing; but last night we had bonfires all over the town, and I suppose shall have notable
mobbing at the new election; though I do not believe there will be any opposition to their
Mr. Edwin and Lord Perceval.(372)  Thank God! we are now adjourned for three weeks.  I shall
go to Swallowfield (373) for a few days: so for one week you will miss hearing from me.  We
have escaped the Prince'S (374) affair hitherto, but we shall have it after the holidays. 
All depends upon the practices of both sides in securing or getting new votes during the recess.
Sir Robert is very sanguine: I hope, for his sake and for his honour, and for the nation's
peace, that he will get the better: but the moment he has the majority secure, I shall be very
earnest with him to resign.  He has a constitution to last some years, and enjoy some repose;
and for my own part (and both my brothers agree with me in it), we wish most heartily to see
an end of his ministry.  If I can judge of them by myself, those who want to be in our situation,
do not wish to see it brought about more than we do. It is fatiguing to bear so much envy and
ill-will undeservedly.-Otium Divos rogo; but adieu, politics, for three weeks!

The Duchess of Buckingham, (375) who is more mad with pride than any merchant's wife in Bedlam,
came the other night to the opera en princesse, literally in robes, red velvet and ermine.
I must tell you a story of her: last week she sent for Cori,(376) to pay him for her opera-ticket;
he was not at home, but went in an hour afterwards.  She said, "Did he treat her like a tradeswoman?
She would teach him to respect women of her birth; said he was in league with Mr. Sheffield
(377) to abuse her, and bade him come the next morning at nine."  He came, and she made him
wait till eight at night, only sending him an omlet and a bottle of wine, "as it was Friday,
and he a Catholic, she supposed he did not eat meat." At last she received him in all the form
of a princess giving audience to an ambassador. "Now," she said, "she had punished him."

In this age we have some who pretend to impartiality: you will scarce guess how Lord Brook
(378) shows his: he gives one vote on one side, one on the other, and the third time does not
vote at all, and so on, regularly.

My sister is ,up to the elbows in joy and flowers that she has received from you this morning
and begs I will thank you for her.

You know, or have heard of, Mrs. Nugent, Newsham's mother; she went the other morning to Lord
Chesterfield to beg "he would encourage Mr. Nugent (379) to speak in the house; for that really
he was so bashful, she was afraid his abilities would be lost on the world." I don't know who
has encouraged him; but so it is, that this modest Irish converted Catholic does talk a prodigious
deal of nonsense in behalf of English liberty.

Lord Gage (380) is another; no man would trust him in a wager, unless he stakes, and yet he
is trusted by a whole borough with their privileges and liberties! He told Mr. Winnington the
other day, that he would bring his son into parliament, that he would not influence him, but
leave him entirely to himself.  "D-n it," said Winnington, "so you have all his lifetime."

Your brother says you accuse him of not writing to you, and that his reasons are, he has not
time, and next, that I tell you all that can be said.  So I do, I think: tell me when I begin
to tire you, or if I am too circumstantial; but I don't believe you will think so, for I remember
how we used to want such a correspondent when I was with you.

I have spoke about the young man who is well content to live with you as a servant out of livery.
I am to settle the affair finally with his father on Monday, and then he shall set out as soon
as possible.  I will send the things for Prince Craon etc. by him.  I will write to Madame
Grifoni the moment I hear she is returned from the country.

The Princess Hesse (381) is brought to bed of a son.  We are going into mourning for the Queen
of Sweden;(382) she had always been apprehensive of the small-pox, which has been very fatal
in her family.

You have heard, I suppose, of the new revolution (383) in Muscovy.  The letters from Holland
to-day say, that they have put to death the young Czar and his mother, and his father too:
which, if true,(384) is going very far, for he was of a sovereign house in another country,
no subject of Russia, and after the death of his wife and son, could have no pretence or interest
to raise more commotions there.

We have got a new opera, not so good as the former; and we have got the famous Bettina to dance,
but she is a most indifferent performer.  The house is excessively full every Saturday, never
on Tuesday: here, you know, we make every thing a fashion.

I am happy that my fears for Tuscany vanish every letter.  There! there is a letter of twelve
sides! I am forced to page it, it is SO long, and I have not time to read it over and look
for the mistakes. Yours, ever.  [The following favourable character of Dr. Cocchi is contained
in a letter from the Earl of Cork to Mr. Duncombe, dated Florence, November 29, 1754. "Mr Mann's
fortunate in the friendship, skill, and care of his physician, Dr. Cocchi.  He is a man of
most extensive learning; understands, reads, and speaks all the European languages; studious,
polite, modest, humane, and instructive.  He is always to be admired and beloved by all who
know him.  Could I live with these two gentlemen only, and converse with few or none others,
I should scarce desire to return to England for many years."]

(364) Samuel Sandys, a republican, raised on the fall of Sir R.'W. to be chancellor of the
exchequer, then degraded to a peer and cofferer, and soon afterwards laid aside. [In 1743,
he was raised to the peerage by the title of Lord Sandys, Baron of Omberley in the county of
Worcester, and died in 1770.  Dr. Nash, in his history of that county, states him to have been
"a very useful, diligent senator-a warm, steady friend-a good neighbor, and a most hospitable
country gentleman and provincial magistrate."]

(365) William Murray, brother of Lord- Stormont, and of Lord Dunbar, the Pretender's first
minister.  He is known by his eloquence and the friendship of Mr. Pope.  He was soon afterwards
promoted to be solicitor-general. (Afterwards the celebrated chief-justice of the King's Bench,
and Earl of Man's'field.-D.)

(366) Sir Richard Lloyd, advanced in 1754 to be solicitor-general, in the room of Mr. Murray,
appointed attorney-general. [And in 1759, appointed one of the Barons of the exchequer.]

(367) Arthur St. Leger, Lord Doneraile, died in 1750, being lord of the bedchamber to the Prince
of Wales.

(368) Lord Sundon and Sir Charles Wager had been the Court candidates for Westminster at the
late election against Admiral Vernon and Charles Edwin, Esq.-D.

(369) A great London merchant, and one of the members for the City.  His reputation for integrity
and ability gave him much weight in the House of Commons.-D. (Lord Chatham, when mr. Pitt,
frequently calls him the Great Commoner.  In 1749, he became father of the City; when, much
against his will, the merchants erected a statue of him in the Royal Exchange.  He died in 1764.]

(370) Paul Whitehead, an infamous but not despicable poet. [See ante, p. 190, Letter 42.]

(371) Thomas Lord Viscount Gage had been a Roman Catholic, and was master of the household
to the Prince. [Lord Gage, in 1721, was elected for the borough of Tewksbury; which he represented
till within a few months of his death, in 1754.  He was a zealous politician, and distinguished
himself, in 1732, by detecting the fraudulent sale of the Derwentwater estates.]

(372) John Perceval, second Earl of Egmont, in Ireland, created, in 176@, Lord Lovel and Rolland
in the peerage of Great Britain.  He became, in 1747, a lord of the bedchamber to Frederick
Prince of Wales, and in the early part of the reign of George III. held successively the offices
of postmaster-general and first lord of the admiralty.  He was a man of some ability and a
frequent and fluent speaker, and was the author of a celebrated party pamphlet of' the day,
entitled "Faction Detected."  His excessive love of ancestry led him, in Conjunction with his
father, and assisted by Anderson, the genealogist, to print two thick octavo volumes respecting
his family, entitled "History of the House of Ivery;" a most remarkable monument of human vanity.-D.
[Boswell was not of this opinion.  Family histories, like the imagines majorum of the ancients,
excite to virtue." See "Life of Johnson," vol viii. p. 188.]

(373) Swallowfield, in Berkshire, the seat of John Dodd, Esq.

(374) A scheme for obtaining a larger allowance for the Prince of Wales.

(375) Catherine, Duchess Dowager of Buckingham, natural daughter of King James II.  (Supposed
to be really the daughter of Colonel Graham, a man of Gallantry of the time, and a lover of
her mother, Lady Dorchester.-D.)  [This remarkable woman was extravagantly proud of her descent
from James the Second, and affected to be the head of the Jacobite party in England.  She maintained
a kind of royal state, and affected great devotion to the memory of her father and grandfather.
On the death of her son, the second Duke of Buckingham of the Sheffield family (whose funeral
was celebrated in a most extraordinary manner), she applied to the old Duchess of Marlborough,
who was as high spirited as herself, for the loan of the richly-ornamented hearse which had
conveyed the great duke to his grave. "Tell her," said Sarah, "it carried the Duke of Marlborough,
and shall never carry any one else."  "My upholsterer," rejoined Catherine of Buckingham in
a fury, "tells me I can have a finer for twenty pounds."-"  This last stroke," says the editor
of the Suffolk Correspondence, " was aimed at the parsimony of their Graces of Marlborough,
which was supposed to have been visible even in the funeral; but the sarcasm was as unjust
as the original request of borrowing the hearse was mean and unfeeling."-E.]

(376) Angelo Maria Cori, prompter to the Opera.

(377) Mr. Sheffield, natural son of the late Duke of Buckingham, with whom she was at law.

(378) Francis, Baron, and afterwards created Earl Brooke.

(379) Robert Nugent, a poet, a patriot, an author, a lord of the treasury, (and finally an
Irish peer by the titles of Lord Clare and Earl Nugent.  He seems to have passed his long life
in seeking lucrative places and courting rich widows, in both of which pursuits be was eminently
successful.-D.) [He married the sister and heiress of Secretary Craggs, and his only daughter
married the first Marquis of Buckingham.  A volume of his ,Odes and Epistles" were published
anonymously in 1733.  He died in 1788.)

(380) Lord Gage was one of those persons to whom the privileges of parliament were of extreme
consequence, as their own liberties were inseparable from them.

(381) Mary, fourth daughter of King George II.

(382) Ulrica, Queen of Sweden, sister of Charles XII.

(383) This relates to the revolution by which the young Czar John was deposed, and the Princess
Elizabeth raised to the throne.

(384) This was not true.  The Princess Anne of Mecklenburgh died in prison at Riga, a few years
afterwards.  Her son, the young Czar, and her husband, Prince Antony of Brunswick Wolfenbuttle,
were confined for many years.

206 Letter 49 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Dec. 29, 1741.

I write to YOU two days before the post goes out, because to-morrow I am to go out of town;
but I would answer your letter by way of Holland, to tell you how much you have obliged both
Sir Robert and me about the Dominichini;(385) and to beg you to thank Mr. Chute and Mr. Whithed-but
I cannot leave it to you.

"My dear Mr. Chute, was ever any thing so kind!  I crossed the Giogo (386) with Mr. Coke,(387)
but it was in August, and I thought it then the greatest compliment that ever was paid to mortal;
and I went with him too!  but you to go only for a picture, and in the month of December: What
can I say to you? You do more to oblige your friend, than I can find terms to thank you for.
If I was to tell-it here, it would be believed as little as the rape of poor Tory (388) by
a wolf.  I can only say that I know the Giogo, its snows and its inns, and consequently know
the extent of the obligation that I have to you and Mr. Whithed."

Now I return to you, my dear child: I am really so much obliged to you and to them, that I
know not what to say.  I read Pennee's letter to Sir.  R., who was much pleased with his discretion;
he will be quite a favourite of mine.  And now we are longing for the picture; you know, of
old, my impatience.

Your young secretary-servant is looking out for a ship, and will set out in the first that
goes: I envy him.

The Court has been trying but can get nobody to stand for Westminster.  You know Mr. Doddington
has lost himself extremely by his new turn, after so often changing sides: he is grown very
fat and lethargic; my brother Ned says, "he is grown of less consequence, but more weight."(389)

One hears of nothing but follies said by the Opposition, who grow mad on having the least prospect.
Lady Carteret,(390) who, you know, did not want any new fuel to her absurdity, says, "they
talk every day of making her lord first minister, but he is not so easily persuaded as they
think for."  Good night. Yours, ever.

(385) A celebrated picture of a Madonna and Child by Dominichino, in the palace Zembeccari,
at Bologna, now in the collection of the Earl of Orford, at Houghton, in Norfolk. (Since sent
to Russia with the rest of the collection.-D.)

(386) The Giogo is the highest part of the Apennine between Florence and Bologna.

(387) Son of Lord Lovel, since Earl of Leicester. [In 1744, Lord Lovel was created Viscount
Coke of Holkham and Earl of Leicester. His only son Edward died before him, in 1753, without
issue; having married Lady Mary, one of the co-heirs of John Duke of Argyle and Greenwich.]

(388) A black spaniel of Mr. Walpole's was seized by a wolf on the Alps, as it was running
at the head of the chaise-horses, at noonday. [See ante, p. 139 letter 14.]

(389) George Bubb Dodington had lately resigned his post of one of the lords of the treasury,
and gone again into opposition.  [In Walpole's copy of the celebrated Diary of this versatile
politician, he had written a "Brief account of George Bubb Doddington, Lord Melcombe," which
the noble editor of the "Memoires" has inserted.  It describes him, "as his Diary shows, vain,
fickle, ambitious, and corrupt,' and very lethargic; but gives him credit for great wit and
readiness."  Cumberland, in his Memoirs, thus paints him:-"Dodington, lolling in his chair,
in perfect apathy and self-command, dozing, and even snoring, at intervals, in his lethargic
way, broke out every now and then into gleams and flashes of wit and humour."  In 1761, he
was created Lord Melcombe, and died in the following year.]

(390) Frances, daughter of Sir Robert Worseley, and first wife of John Lord Carteret, afterwards
Earl of Granville.

207 Letter 50 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Jan. 7, 1741-2, O. S.

I must answer for your brother a paragraph that he showed me in one of your letters: "Mr. W.'s
letters are full of wit; don't they adore him in England?"  Not at all-and I don't wonder at
them: for if I have any wit in my letters, which I do not at all take for granted, it is ten
to one that I have none out of my letters.  A thousand people can write, that cannot talk;
and besides, you know, (or I conclude so, from the little one hears stirring,) that numbers
of the English have wit, who don't care to produce it.  Then, as to adoring; YOU now See Only
my letters, and you may be sure I take care not to write you word of any of my bad qualities,
which other people must see in the gross; and that may be a great hindrance to their adoration.
Oh! there are a thousand other reasons I could give you, why I am not the least in fashion.
I came over in an ill season: it is a million to one that nobody thinks a declining old minister's
son has wit.  At any time, men in opposition have always most; but now, it would be absurd
for a courtier to have even common sense.  There is not a Mr. Stuart, or a Mr. Stewart, whose
names begin but with the first letters of Stanhope,(391) that has not a better chance than
I, for being liked.  I can assure you, even those of the same party would be fools, not to
pretend to think me one.  Sir Robert has showed no partiality for me;(392) and do you think
they would commend where he does not?  even supposing they had no envy, which by the way, I
am far from saying they have not.  Then. my dear child, I am the coolest man of my party, and
if I am ever warm, it is by contagion; and where violence passes for parts, what will indifference
be called? But how could you think of such a question '! I don't want money, consequently Do
old women pay me for my wit; I have a very flimsy constitution, consequently the young women
won't taste my wit, and it is a long while before wit makes its own way in the world; especially,
as I never prove it, by assuring people that I have it by me.  Indeed, if I were disposed to
brag, I could quote two or three half-pay officers, and an old aunt or two, who laugh prodigiously
at every thing I say; but till they are allowed judges, I will not brag of such authorities.

If you have a mind to know who is adored and has wit, there is old Churchill has as much God-d-n-ye
wit as ever-except that he has lost two teeth.  There are half a dozen Scotchmen who vote against
the Court, and are cried up by the Opposition for wit, to keep them steady.  They are forced
to cry up their parts, for it would be too barefaced to commend their honesty.  Then Mr. Nugent
has had a great deal of wit till within this week; but he is so busy and so witty, that even
his own party grow tired of him. His plump wife, who talks of nothing else, says he entertained
her all the way on the road with repeating his speeches.

I did not go into the country, last week, as I intended, the weather was so bad; but I shall
go on Sunday for three or four days, and perhaps shall not be able to write to you that week.
You are in an agitation, I suppose, about politics: both sides are trafficking deeply for votes
during the holidays.  It is allowed, I think, that we shall have a majority of twenty-six:
Sir R. says more; but now, upon a pinch, he brags like any bridegroom.

The Westminster election passed without any disturbance, in favour of Lord Perceive-all (394)
and Mr. Perceive-nothing, as my uncle calls them.  Lord Chesterfield was vaunting to Lord Lovel,
that they should have carried it, if they had set up two broomsticks. "So I see," replied Lovel.
But it seems we have not done with it yet: if we get the majority, this will be declared a
void election too, for my Lord Chancellor (395) has found out, that the person who made the
return, had no right to make it: it was the High Bailiff's clerk, the High Bailiff himself
being in custody of the sergeant-at-arms.  it makes a great noise, and they talk of making
subscriptions for a Petition.

Lord Stafford (396) is come over.  He told me some good stories of the Primate.(397)

Last night I had a good deal of company to hear Monticelli and Amorevoli, particularly the
three beauty-Fitzroys, Lady Euston, Lady Conway, and Lady Caroline.(398)  Sir R. liked the
singers extremely: he had not heard them before, I forgot to tell you all our beauties there
was Miss Hervey,(399) my lord's daughter, a fine, black girl, but as masculine as her father
should be;(400) and jenny Conway, handsomer Still,(401) though changed with illness, than even
the Fitzroys.  I made the music for my Lord Hervey, who is too ill to go to operas: yet, with
a coffin-face, is as full of his little dirty politics as ever.  He will not be well enough
to go to the House till the majority is certain somewhere, but lives shut up with my Lord Chesterfield
and Mr. Pultney-a triumvirate, who hate one another more than any body they could proscribe,
had they the power.  I dropped in at my Lord Hervey's, the other night, knowing my lady had
company: it was soon after our defeats. My lord, who has always professed particularly to me,
turned his back on me, and retired for an hour into a whisper with young Hammond,(402) at the
end of the room.  Not being at all amazed at one whose heart I knew so well, I stayed on, to
see more of this behaviour; indeed, to rise myself to it.  At last he came up to me, and begged
this music. which I gave him, and would often again, to see how many times I shall be ill and
well with him within this month. Yesterday came news that his brother, Captain William Hervey,
has taken a Caracca ship, worth full two hundred thousand pounds.  He was afterwards separated
from it by a storm, for two or three days, and was afraid of losing it, having but five-and-twenty
men to thirty-six Spaniards; but he has brought it home safe.  I forgot to tell you, that upon
losing the first question, Lord Hervey kept away for a week; on our carrying the next great
one, he wrote to Sir Robert, how much he desired to see him, "not upon any business, but Lord
Hervey longs to see Sir Robert Walpole."

Lady Sundon(402)  is dead, and Lady M- disappointed: she, who is full as politic as my Lord
Hervey, had made herself an absolute servant to Lady Sundon, but I don't hear that she has
left her even her old clothes.  Lord Sundon is in great grief: I am surprised, for she has
had fits of madness ever since her ambition met such a check by the death of the Queen.(404)
She had great power with her, though the Queen pretended to despise her; but had unluckily
told her, or fallen into her power by some secret.(405)  I was saying to Lady Pomfret, to be
sure she is dead very rich!" She replied, with some warmth, She never took money."  When I
came home, I mentioned this to Sir R.  "No," said he, "but she took jewels; Lord Pomfret's
place of master of the horse to the Queen was bought of her for a pair of diamond earrings,
of fourteen hundred pounds value."  One day that she wore them at a visit at old Marlboro's,
as soon as she was gone, the Duchess said to Lady Mary Wortley,(406) "How can that woman have
the impudence to go about in that bribe?"-,, Madam," said Lady Mary, "how would you have people
know where wine is to be sold, unless there is a sign hung out!" Sir R. told me, that in the
enthusiasm of her vanity, Lady Sundon had proposed to him to unite with her, and govern the
kingdom together: he bowed, begged her patronage, but said he thought nobody fit to govern
the kingdom, but the King and Queen.-Another day.

Friday morning.  I was forced to leave off last night, as I found it would be impossible to
send away this letter finished in any time.  It will be enormously long, but I have prepared
you for it.  When I consider the beginning of my letter, it looks as if I were entirely of
your opinion about the agreeableness of them.  I believe you will never commend them again,
when you see how they increase upon your hands.  I have seen letters of two or three sheets,
written from merchants at Bengal and Canton to their wives: but then they contain the history
of a twelvemonth: I grow voluminous from week to week.  I can plead in excuse nothing but the
true reason; you desired it; and I remember how I used to wish for such letters, when I was
in Italy.  My Lady Pomfret carries this humanity still farther, and because people were civil
to her in Italy, she makes it a rule to visit all strangers in general.  She has been to visit
a Spanish Count (407) and his wife, though she cannot open her lips in their language.  They
fled from Spain, he and his brother having offended the Queen, (408) by their attachments to
the Prince of Asturias; his brother ventured back to bring off this woman, who was engaged
to him.  Lord Harrington (409) has procured them a pension of six hundred a-year.  They live
chiefly with Lord Carteret and his daughter,(410) who speak Spanish.  But to proceed from where
I left off last night, like the Princess Dinarzade in the Arabian Nights, for you will want
to know what happened one day. Sir Robert was at dinner with Lady Sundon, who hated the Bishop
of London, as much as she loved the Church.  "Well," said she to Sir R., "how does your pope
do!"-"Madam," replied he, "he is my pope, and shall be my Pope; every body has some pope or
other; don't you know that you are one!  They call you Pope Joan."  She flew into a passion,
and desired he would not fix any names on her; that they were not so easily got rid of.

We had a little ball the other night at Mrs. Boothby's, and by
 dancing, did not perceive an earthquake, which frightened all
the undancing part of the town.

We had a civility from his Royal Highness,(411) who sent for Monticelli the night he was engaged
here, but, on hearing it, said he would send for him some other night.  If I did not live so
near St. James's, I would find out some politics in this-should not one?

Sir William Stanhope (412) has had a hint from the same Highness, that his company is not quite
agreeable: whenever he met any body at Carlton House whom he did not know, he said, "Your humble
servant, Mr. or Mrs. Hamilton."

I have this morning sent aboard the St. Quintin a box for you, with your secretary-not in it.

Old Weston of Exeter is dead.  Dr. Clarke, the Dean, Dr. Willes, the decipherer, and Dr. Gilbert
of Llandaff, are candidates to succeed him.(413)  Sir R. is for Willes, who, he says, knows
so many secrets, that he might insist upon being archbishop.

My dear Mr. Chute! how concerned I am that he took all that trouble to no purpose.  I will
not write to him this post, for as you show him my letters, this here will sufficiently employ
any one's patience-but I have done.  I long to hear that the Dominichini is safe.  Good night.
Yours, ever.

(391) The name of Lord Chesterfield.

(392) On the subject of Sir Robert's alleged want of partiality for his son, the following
passage occurs in the anecdotes prefixed to Lord Wharncliffe's edition of the works of Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu:-"Those ironical lines, where Pope says that Sir Robert Had never made
a friend in private life, And was, besides, a tyrant to his wife,' are well understood, as
conveying a sly allusion to his good-humoured unconcern about some things which more strait-laced
husbands do not take so coolly.  In a word, Horace Walpole was generally supposed to be the
son of Carr Lord Hervey, and Sir Robert not to be ignorant of it.  One striking circumstance
was visible to the naked eye; no beings in human shape could resemble each other less than
the two passing for father and son; and while their reverse of personal likeness provoked a
malicious whisper, Sir Robert's marked neglect of Horace in his infancy tended to confirm it.
Sir Robert took scarcely any notice of him till his proficiency in Eton school, when a lad
of some standing, drew his attention, and proved that, whether he had or had not a right to
the name he went by, he was likely to do it Honour." Vol. i. 1). 33.-E.

(393) General Charles Churchill. (Whose character has been so inimitably sketched, at about
the same period when this letter was written, by Sir Charles Hanbury Williams, in his poem
of', Isabella, or the Morning:"-

"The General, one of those brave old commanders,
Who served through all our glorious wars in Flanders.
Frank and good-natur'd, of an honest heart,
Loving to act the steady friendly part;
None led through youth a gayer life than he,
Cheerful in converse, smart in repartee;
But with old age, its Vices Come along,
And in narration he's extremely long;
Exact in circumstance, and nice in dates,
He each minute particular relates.
If you name one of marlbro's ten campaigns,
         He gives you its whole history for your pains,
And Blenheim's field becomes by his reciting,
As long in telling as it was in fighting.
His old desire to please is still express'd,
His hat's well cock'd, his periwig's well dress'd.
He rolls his stockings still, white gloves he wears,
And in the boxes with the beaux appears.
His eyes through wrinkled corners cast their rays,
Still he looks cheerful, still soft things he says,
And still remembering that he once was young,
He strains his crippled knees, and struts along."-D.)

(394) Vide an account of the erection of Lord Perceval and one Edwin, in that Lord's History
of the House of Ivery.

(395) Philip Yorke, Lord, and afterwards Earl of Hardwicke, for twenty years Lord Chancellor
of England.-D.

(396) William mathias Howard, Earl of Stafford.

(397) The Primate of Lorrain, eldest son of Prince Craon, was famous for his wit and vices
of all kinds.

(398) Lady Dorothy Boyle, eldest daughter of Lord Burlington; Isabella, wife of Francis Lord
Conway, and Caroline, afterwards married to Lord Petersham, were the daughter-in-law and daughters
of Charles Fitzroy, Duke of grafton, lord chamberlain.

(399) Lepel, eldest daughter of John Lord Hervey, afterwards married to Mr. Phipps.  (Constantine
Phipps, in 1767 created Lord Mulgrave.]

(400) The effeminacy of Lord Hervey formed a continual subject for the satire of his opponents.
Pope's bitter lines on him- are well remembered.  The old Duchess of Marlborough, too, in her
"Opinions," describes him as having "certainly parts and wit; but he is the most wretched profligate
man that ever was born, besides ridiculous; a painted face, and not a tooth in his head." on
which the editor of that curious little book, Lord Hailes, remarks, "Lord Hervey, having felt
some attacks of the epilepsy, entered upon and persisted in a very strict regimen, and thus
stopped the progress and prevented the effects of that dreadful disease.  His daily food was
a small quantity of asses' milk and a flour biscuit.  Once a week he indulged himself with
eating an apple; he used emetics daily. Mr. Pope and he were once friends; but they quarrelled,
and persecuted each other with virulent satire.  Pope, knowing the abstemious regimen which
Lord Hervey observed, was so ungenerous as to call him "mere cheese-curd of asses' milk!" Lord
Hervey used paint to soften his ghastly appearance.  Mr. Pope must have known this also; and
therefore it was unpardonable in him to introduce it into his "celebrated portrait." It ought
to be remembered, that Lord Hervey is very differently described by Dr. Middleton; who, in
his dedication to him of "The History of the Life of Tully," praises him for his strong good
sense, patriotism, temperance, and information.-E.

(401) Jane, only daughter of Francis, the first Lord Conway, by his second wife, Mrs. Bodens.
(She died unmarried, May 5, 1749.-D.)

(402) Author of some Love Elegies, and a favourite of Lord Chesterfield.  He died this year.
[Hammond was equerry to the Prince of Wales, and member for Truro.  He died in June, 1742,
at Stowe, the seat of Lord Cobham, in his thirty.second year.  Miss Dashwood long survived
him, and died unmarried in 1779.  "  The character," says Johnson, "which her lover gave her
was, indeed, not likely to attract courtship."]

(402) Wife of William Clayton, Lord Sundon, woman of the bedchamber and mistress of the robes
to Queen Caroline. [She had been the friend and correspondent of Sarah Duchess of' Marlborough;
who, on the accession of George I , through Baron Bothmar's influence, procured for her friend
the place of lady of the bedchamber to the Princess with whom she grew as great a favourite
as her colleague, Mrs. Howard, with the Prince; and eventually, on the Princess becoming Queen,
exercised an influence over her, of which even sir Robert Walpole was jealous.]

(404) Queen Caroline, died November 1737.-D.

(405) This is now known to have been a rupture, with which the Queen was afflicted, and which
she had the weakness to wish, and the courage to be able, to conceal.-E.

(406) The celebrated Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, oldest daughter of Evelyn, first Duke of Kingston,
and wife of Wortley Montagu, Esq.-D.

(407) Marquis de Sabernego: he returned to Spain after the death of Philip V.

(408) The Princess of Parma, second wife of Philip V. King of Spain, and consequently  stepmother
to the Prince of Asturias, son of that King, by his first wife, a princess of Savoy.-D.

(409) William Stanhope, created Lord Harrington in 1729, and Earl of the same in 1741.  He
held various high offices, and was, at the time this was written, secretary of state.-D.

(410) Frances, youngest daughter of Lord Carteret, afterwards married to the Marquis of Tweedale.
(in 1748.  The marquis was an extraordinary lord of session, and the last person who held a
similar appointment.]

(411) Frederick Prince of Wales.-D.

(412) Brother to Lord Chesterfield.  This bon mot was occasioned by the numbers of Hamiltons
which Lady Archibald Hamilton, the Prince's mistress, had placed at that court.

(413) Nicholas Clagget, Bishop of St. David's, succeeded, on Weston's death, to the see of
Exeter.-Dr. Clagget was, however, succeeded in the see of St. David's by Dr. Edward Willes,
Dean of Lincoln and decipherer to the King; and, in the following year, translated to the bishopric
of Bath and Wells. The art of deciphering, for which Dr. Willes was so celebrated, has been
the subject of many learned and curious works by Trithemius, Baptista Porta, the Duke Augustus
of Brunswick, and other more recent writers.  The Gentleman's Magazine for 1742, contains a
very ingenious system of deciphering: but the old modes of secret writing having been, for
the most part, superseded by the modern system of cryptography, in which, according to a simple
rule which may be communicated verbally, and easily retained in the memory, the signs for the
letters can be changed continually; it is the chiffre quarr`e or chiffre ind`echiffrable, used,
if not universally, yet by most courts.  None of the old systems of deciphering are any longer
available.]

212 Letter 51 To Sir Horace Mann.  Our recess finished last Monday, and never at school did
I enjoy holidays so much-but, les voil`a finis jusqu'au printefps!

Well, now I come to yesterday: we met, not expecting much business.  Five of our members were
gone to the York election, and the three Lord Beauclercs (417) to their mother's funeral at
Windsor; for that old beauty St. Albans (418) is dead at last. On this they depended for getting
the majority, and towards three o'clock, when we thought of breaking up, poured in their most
violent questions: one was a motion for leave to bring in the Place Bill to limit the number
of placemen in the House.  This was not opposed, because, out of decency, it is generally suffered
to pass the Commons, and is thrown out by the Lords; only Colonel Cholmondeley (419) desired
to know if they designed to limit the number of those that have promises of places, as well
as of those that have places now.  I must tell you that we are a very conclave; they buy votes
with reversions of places on the change of the ministry.  Lord Gage was giving an account in
Tom's coffeehouse of the intended alterations: that Mr. Pultney is to be chancellor of the
exchequer, and Chesterfield and Carteret secretaries of state. Somebody asked who was to be
paymaster?  Numps Edwin,(420) who stood by, replied, "We have not thought so low as that yet."
Lord Gage harangues every day at Tom's, and has read there a very false account of the King'S
message to the Prince.(421)  The Court, to show their contempt of Gage, have given their copy
to be read by Swinny.(422)  This is the authentic copy, which they have made the bishop write
from the message which he carried, and as he and Lord Cholmondeley agree it was given.

The night of the committee, my brother Walpole
 (431) had got two or three invalids at his house,
designing to carry them into the House by his door, as they were
too ill to go round by Westminster hall: the patriots, who have
rather more contrivances than their predecessors of Grecian and
Roman memory, had taken the precaution of stopping the keyhole
with sand.  How Livy's eloquence would have been hampered, if
there had been back-doors and keyholes to the Temple of Concord!

A few days ago there were lists of the officers at Port Mahon
laid before the House of Lords -. unfortunately, it appeared that
two-thirds of the regiment had been absent.  The Duke of Argyll
said, "Such a list was a libel on the government;" and of all
men, the Duke of Newcastle was the man who rose up and agreed
with him: remember what I have told you once before of his union
with Carteret.  We have
                  carried the York election by a majority of 956.

The other night the Bishop of Canterbury(432) was with Sir
'Robert, and on going away, said, "Sir, I have been lately
reading Thaunus; he mentions a minister, who having long been
persecuted by his enemies, at length vanquished them: the
reason he gives, quia se non
                  deseruit."

I must tell you something, though Mr. Chute will see my
letter.  Sir Robert brought home yesterday to dinner, a fat
comely gentleman, who came up to me, and said he believed I knew
his brother abroad.  I asked his name; he replied, He is with Mr.
Whithed."  I thought he said,   It is Whithed." After I had
talked to him of Mr. Whithed, I said,     There is a very
sensible man with Mr. Whithed,
                  one Mr. Chute." "Sir," said he, "my name is
Chute." "My dear
                  Mr. Chute, now I know both your brothers.  You
will forgive my mistake."

With what little conscience I begin a third sheet! but it
shall be but half a one.  I have received your vast packet of
music by the messenger, for which I thank you a thousand
times; and the political
                  sonnet, which is far from bad.  Who
translated it? I like the translation.

I am obliged to you about the gladiator, etc.: the temptation of having them at all is great,
but too enormous.  If I could have the gladiator for about an hundred pounds, I would give it.

I enclose one of the bills of lading of the things that I sent you by your secretary: he sets
out tomorrow.  By Oswald's (433) folly, to whom I entrusted the putting them on board, they
are consigned to Goldsworthy, (434) but pray take care that he does not open them.  The captain
mortifies me by proposing to stay three weeks at Genoa.  I have sent away to-night a small
additional box of steel wares, which I received but to-day from Woodstock.  As they are better
than the first, you will choose out some of them for Prince Craon, and give away the rest as
you please.

We have a new opera by Pescetti, but a very bad one; however, all the town runs after it, for
it ends with a charming dance.(435)  They have flung open the stage to a great length, and
made                 a perfect view of Venice, with the Rialto, and numbers of gondolas that
row about full of masks, who land and dance.  You would like it.

Well, I have done.  Excuse me if I don't take the trouble to read it all over again, for it
is immense, as you will find.  Good night!

We are told by Coxe, that Sir Robert Walpole "used frequently to rally his sons, who      
were praising the speeches of Pultney, Pitt, Lyttelton, and others, by saying, "You may cry
up their speeches if you please, but when I have answered Sir John Barnard and Lord Polwarth,
I think I have concluded the debate."]

(416) Glover, a merchant, author of "Leonidas," a poem, "Boadicea," a tragedy, etc. [Glover's
talent for public speaking, and information concerning trade and Commerce, naturally pointed
him out to the merchants of London to conduct their application to parliament on the neglect
of their trade.]

(417) Lord Vere, Lord Henry, and Lord Sidney Beauclerc, sons of the Duchess Dowager of St.
Albans, who is painted among the beauties at Hampton Court.

(418) Lady Diana Vere, daughter, and at length sole heir, of Aubrey de Vere, twentieth and
last Earl of Oxford.  She married, in 1694, Charles, first Duke of St. Albans, natural son
of Charles II. by Nell Gwin.  She died Jan. 15, 1742.

(419) Colonel James Cholmondeley, only brother of the Earl. Afterwards distinguished himself
at the battles of Fontenoy and Falkirk, and died in 1775.-E.

(420) Charles Edwin, Admiral Vernon's unsuccessful colleague at Westminster.-E.

(421) During the holidays, Sir R. W. had prevailed on the King to send to the Prince of Wales,
to offer to pay his debts and double his allowance.  This negotiation was intrusted to Lord
Cholmondeley on the King's, and to Secker, Bishop of Oxford, on the Prince's side, but came
to nothing, [The Prince, in his answer, stated, that "he could not come to court while Sir
Robert Walpole presided in His Majesty's councils; that he looked on him as the sole author
of our grievances at home, and of our ill success in the West Indies; and that the disadvantageous
figure we at present made in all the courts of Europe was to be attributed alone to him."]

(422) Owen MacSwinny, a buffoon; formerly director of the playhouse. [He had been a manager
of Drury Lane Theatre, and was the author of several dramatic pieces.  He resided in Italy
for several years, and, on his return, was appointed keeper of the King's Mews.  He died in
1754, leaving his fortune to the celebrated Mrs. Woffington.](

423) Afterwards the great Lord Chatham.-D.

(424) First minister in the early part of the reign of George III.-D.

(425) Afterwards the first Lord Holland.-D.

(426) Sir Dudley Ryder.-D.

(427) Sir Robert Wilmot, in a letter to the Duke of Devonshire, says:-,,Sir William Gordon
was brought in like a corpse.  Some thought it had been an old woman in disguise, having a
white cloth round his head: others,, who found him out, expected him to expire every moment.
Other incurables were introduced on their side.  Mr. Hopton, for Hereford, w, is carried in
with crutches.  Sir Robert Walpole exceeded himself; Mr. Pelham, with the greatest decency,
cut Pultney into a thousand pieces.  Sir Robert actually dissected him, and laid his heart
open to the view of the House."-E.

(428) Admiral Sir Charles Wager. He had been knighted by Queen Anne, for his Gallantry in taking
and destroying some rich Spanish galleons.  He was at this time first lord of the Admiralty.
He died in 1743.-D.

(429) Sir William died in the May following.

(430) James Oswald, afterwards one of the commissioners of trade and plantations.

(431) Robert, Lord Walpole, afterwards Earl of Orford.  He was auditor of the Exchequer, and
his house joined to the House of commons, to which he had a door: but it was soon afterwards
locked up, by an order of the House.

(432) John Potter, Archbishop of Canterbury, translated, in 1737, from the see of Oxford. 
He died in 1747.-D.

)433) George Oswald, steward to Sir  R. W.

(434) Mr. Goldsworthy, consul at Leghorn, had married Sir Charles Wager's niece, and was endeavouring
to supplant Mr. Mann at Florence.

(435) Vestris, the celebrated dancer, would have been delighted with it; for it is related
of him, that when Gluck had finished his noble opera, "Iphigenia," Vestris was sadly disappointed
on finding that it did not end with a "chaconne," and worried the composer to induce him to
introduce one.  At length Gluck, losing all patience, exclaimed, "Chaconne! chaconne!  Had,
then, the Greeks, whose manners we are to represent, chaconnes?"  "Certainly not," replied
Vestris, "certainly not; but so much the worse for the Greeks."-D.

218 Letter 52 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Feb. 1741-2.

I am miserable that I have not more time to write to you, especially as you will want to know
so much of what I have to tell you; but for a week or fortnight I shall be so hurried, that
I shall scarce know what I say.  I sit here writing to you, and receiving all the town, who
flock to this house; Sir Robert has already had three levees this morning, and the rooms still
overflowing-they overflow up to me. You will think this the prelude to some victory! On the
contrary, when you receive this, there will be no longer a Sir Robert Walpole: you must know
him for the future by the title of Earl of Orford.  That other envied name expires next week
with his ministry! Preparatory to this change.  I should tell you, that last week we heard
in the House of Commons the Chippenham election, when Jack Frederick and his brother-in-law,
Mr. Hume, on our side, petitioned against Sir Edmund Thomas and Mr. Baynton Holt.  Both sides
made it the decisive question-but our people were not all equally true: and upon the previous
question we had but 235 against 236, so lost it by one.  From that time my brothers, my uncle,
I, and some of his particular friends, persuaded Sir R. to resign.  He was undetermined till
Sunday night.  Tuesday we were to finish the election, when we lost it by 16; upon which Sir
Robert declared to some particular persons in the House his resolution to retire,(436) and
had that morning sent the Prince of Wales notice of' it.  It is understood from the heads of
the party, that nothing more is to be pursued against him.  Yesterday (Wednesday) the King
adjourned both Houses for a fortnight, for time to settle things.  Next week Sir Robert resigns
and goes into the House of Lords.  The only change yet fixed, is, that Lord Wilmington (437)
is to be at the head of the Treasury-but numberless other alterations and confusions must follow.
The Prince will be reconciled, and the Whig-patriots will come in.  There were a few bonfires
last night, but they are very unfashionable, for never was fallen minister so followed.  When
he kissed the King's hand to take his first leave, the King fell on his neck, wept and kissed
him, and begged to see him frequently.  He will continue in town, and assist the ministry in
the Lords.  Mr. Pelham has declared that he will accept nothing, that was Sir Robert's; and
this moment the Duke of Richmond has been here from court to tell Sir R. that he had resigned
the mastership of the horse, having received it from him, unasked, and that he would not keep
it beyond his ministry.  This is the greater honour, as it was so unexpected, and as he had
no personal friendship with the duke.

For myself, I am quite happy to be free from all the fatigue, envy, and uncertainty of our
late situation.  I go every where; indeed, to have the stare over, and to use myself to neglect,
but I meet nothing but civilities.  Here have been Lord Hartington, Coke, and poor Fitzwilliam,(438)
and others crying: here has been Lord Deskford (439) and numbers to wish me joy; in short,
it is a most extraordinary and various scene.(440)

There are three people whom I pity much; the King, Lord Wilmington, and my own sister; the
first, for the affront, to be forced to part with his minister, and to be forced to forgive
his son; the second, as he is too old, and (even when he was young,) unfit for the burthen:
and the poor girl,(441) who must be created an earl's daughter, as her birth would deprive
her of the rank.  She must kiss hands, and bear the flirts of impertinent real quality

I am invited to dinner to-day by Lord Strafford (442) Argyll's son-in-law.  You see we shall
grow the fashion.

My dear child, these are the most material points: I am sensible how much you must want particulars;
but you must be sensible, too, that just yet, I have not time.

Don't be uneasy; your brother Ned has been here to wish me joy: your brother Gal. has been
here and cried; your tender nature will at first make you like the latter; but afterwards you
will rejoice with the elder and me.  Adieu! Yours, ever, and the same.

(436) "Sir Robert," says Coxe, "seemed to have anticipated this event, and met it with his
usual fortitude and cheerfulness.  While the tellers were performing their office, he beckoned
Sir Edward Baynton, the member whose return was supported by the Opposition, to sit near him.,
spoke to him with great complacency, animadverted on the ingratitude of several individuals
who were voting against him, on whom he had conferred great favour, and declared he would never
again sit in that House."-E.

(437) Sir Spencer Compton, Earl of Wilmington, knight of the garter, and at this time lord
president of the council.

(438) william, Baron, and afterwards Earl Fitzwilliam; a young lord, much attached to Sir R. W.

(439) James Ogilvy, Lord Deskford succeeded his father, in 1764, as sixth Earl of Findlater,
and third Earl of Seafield.  He held some inconsiderable offices in Scotland, and died in 1770.-D.

(440) the peculiar antipathy to Lord Hardwicke manifested by Horace Walpole on all occasions
is founded, no doubt, upon the opinion which he had taken up, that the resignation of Sir Robert
Walpole at this moment had been rendered necessary by the treachery and intrigues of that nobleman
and the Duke of Newcastle.  In his "Memoires" he repeatedly charges him with such treachery;
and the Edinburgh reviewer of that work (xxxvi. 1). 29) favours this view, observing, "It appears
that, unless there was a secret understanding of Newcastle and Hardwicke with Pulteney and
Carteret, before Sir Robert's determination to resign, the coalition was effected between the
31st of January and 2d of February; for on the 2d of February it was already settled that Lord
Wilmington should be at the head of the Treasury in the new administration.  So speedy an adjustment
of a point of such consequence looks somewhat like previous concert."  However much appearances
might favour this opinion, another writer has shown most satisfactorily that no such previous
concert existed.  The reviewer of the "Memoires" in the Quarterly Review (xxvii. p. 191) proves,
in the first place, that it was Sir Robert himself who determined the course of events, and,
as he emphatically said, turned the key of the closet on Mr. Pulteney; so that, if he was betrayed,
it must have been by himself; and secondly, that we have the evidence of his family and friends,
that he was lost by his own inactivity and timidity; in other words, the great minister was
worn out with age and business." And these views are confirmed by extracts from the "Walpoliana,"
written, be it remembered, by Philip, second Earl -of Hardwicke, son of the chancellor, from
the information of the Walpole family, and even of Sir Robert himself; who, after his retirement,
admitted his young friend into his conversation and confidence-a fact totally inconsistent
with a belief in his father's treachery;-by Sir Robert's own authority, who, in a private and
confidential letter to the Duke of Devonshire, dated 2d of February, 1742, giving an account
of his resignation, and the efforts of his triumphant antagonists to form a new ministry, distinctly
states "that he himself prevented the Duke of Newcastle's dismissal;" and lastly, by Horace
Walpole's own pamphlet, "A Detection of a late Forgery," etc., in which he speaks of "the breach
between the King and the Prince, as open, the known, avowed cause of the resignation, and which
Sir Robert never disguised;"-and again, among the errors of the writer he notices, Sir Robert
Walpole is made to complain of being abandoned by his friends.  This is for once an undeserved
satire on mankind: no fallen minister ever experienced such attachment from his friends as
he did."-E.

(441) Maria, natural daughter of Sir R. W. by Maria Skerret, his mistress, whom he afterwards
married.  She had a patent to take place as an earl's daughter.

(442) William Wentworth, second Earl of Strafford, of the second creation. He married Anne
Campbell, second daughter of John, Duke of Argyle.-D.

220 Letter 53 To Sir Horace Mann. Feb. 9, 1741-2.

You will have had my letter that told you of the great change. The scene is not quite so pleasant
as it was, nor the tranquility arrived that we expected.  All is in confusion; no overtures
from the Prince, who, it must seem, proposes to be King.  His party have persuaded him not
to make up, but on much greater conditions than he first demanded: in short, notwithstanding
his professions to the Bishop,(443)-he is to insist on the impeachment of Sir R., saying now,
that his terms not being accepted at first, he is not bound to stick to them.  He is pushed
on to this violence by Argyll, Chesterfield, Cobham,(444) Sir John Hind Cotton,(445) and Lord
Marchmont.  The first says, "What impudence it is in Sir R. to be driving about the streets!"
and all cry out, that he is still minister behind the curtain.  They will none of them come
into the ministry, till several are displaced  but have summoned a great meeting of the faction
for Friday, at the Fountain Tavern, to consult measures against Sir R., and to-morrow the Common
Council meet, to draw up instructions for their members.  They have sent into Scotland and
into the counties for the same purpose.  Carteret ind Pulteney@ pretend to be against this
violence, but own that if their party insist upon it, they cannot desert them.  The cry against
Sir R. has been greater this week than ever; first, against a grant of four thousand pounds
a-year, which the King gave him on his resignation, but which, to quiet them, he has given
Up.(446) Then, upon making his daughter a lady; their wives and daughters declare against giving
her place.  He and she both kissed hands yesterday, and on Friday go to Richmond for a week.
He seems quite secure in his innocence-but what protection is that, against the power and malice
of' party! Indeed, his friends seem as firm is ever, and frequent him as much; but they are
not now the strongest.  As to an impeachment, I think they will not be so mad as to proceed
to it: it is too solemn and too public to be attempted, without proof of crimes, of which he
certainly is not guilty.  For a bill of' pains and penalties, they may, if they will, I believe,
pass it through the Commons, but will scarce get the assent of the King and Lords.  In a week
more I shall be able to write with less uncertainty.

I hate sending you false news, as that was, of the Duke of Richmond's resignation.  It arose
from his being two hours below with Sir R., and from some very warm discourse of his in the
House of Lords, against the present violences; but went no further.  Zeal magnified this, as
she came up stairs to me, and I wrote to you before I had seen Sir Robert.

At a time when we ought to be most united, we are in the greatest confusion; such is the virtue
of the patriots, though they have obtained what they professed alone to seek.  They will not
stir one step in foreign affairs, though Sir R. has offered to unite with them, with all his
friends, for the common cause.  It will now be seen whether he or they are most patriot.  You
see I call him Sir Robert still! after one has known him by that name for these threescore
years, it is difficult to accustom one's mouth to another title.

In the midst of all this, we are diverting ourselves as cordially as if Righteousness and Peace
had just been kissing one another.  Balls, operas, and masquerades! The Duchess of Norfolk
(447) makes a grand masquing next week; and to-morrow there is one at the Opera-house.

Here is a Saxe-Gothic prince, brother to her Royal Highness:(448) he sent her word from Dover
that he was driven in there, in his way to Italy.  The man of the inn, Whom he consulted about
lodgings in town, recommended him to one of very ill-fame in Suffolk-street.  He has got a
neutrality for himself, and goes to both courts.

Churchill (449) asked Pultney the other day, "Well, Mr. Pultney, will you break me too?"-"No,
Charles," replied he, "you break fast enough of yourself!"  Don't you think it hurt him more
than the other breaking would? Good night! Yours, ever.

Thursday, Feb. 11, 1741-2.

P. S. I had finished my letter, and unwillingly resolved to send you all that bad news, rather
than leave you ignorant of our doings; but I have the pleasure of mending your prospect a little.
Yesterday the Common Council met, and resolved upon instructions to their members, which, except
one not very descriptive paragraph, contains nothing personal -,against our new earl; and ends
with resolutions "to stand by our present constitution." Mind what followed! One of them proposed
to insert "the King and Royal Family" before the words, "our present constitution;" but, on
a division, it was rejected by three to one.

But to-day, for good news! Sir Robert has resigned; Lord Wilmington is first lord of the treasury,
and Sandys has accepted the seals as chancellor of the exchequer, with Gibbon (450) and Sir
John Rushout,(451) joined to him as other lords of the treasury.  Waller was to have been the
other, but has formally refused.  So, Lord Sundon, Earle, Treby,(452) and Clutterbuck (453)
are the first discarded, unless the latter saves himself by Waller's refusal.  Lord Harrington,
who is created an earl, is made president of the council, and Lord Carteret has consented to
be secretary of state in his room-but mind; not one of them has promised to be against the
prosecution of Sir Robert, though I don't believe now that it will go on.  You see Pultney
is not come in, except in his friend Sir John Rushout, but is to hold the balance between liberty
and prerogative; at least, in this, he acts with honour.  They say Sir John Hind Cotton and
the Jacobites will be left out,,unless they bring in Dr. Lee and Sir John Barnard to the admiralty,
as they propose; for I do not think it is decided what are their principles.  Sir Charles Wager
has resigned this morning:(454) he says, "We shall not die, but be all changed!"  though he
says, a parson lately reading this text in an old Bible, where the c was rubbed out, read it,
not die, but be all hanged!

To-morrow our earl goes to Richmond Park, en retir`e; comes on Thursday to take his seat in
the Lords, and returns thither again.  Sandys is very angry at his taking the title of Orford,
which belonged to his wife's (455) great uncle.  You know a step of that nature cost the great
Lord Strafford (456) his head, at the prosecution of a less bloody-minded man than Sandys.

I remain in town, and have not taken at all to withdrawing, which I hear has given offence,(457)
as well as my gay face in public; but as I had so little joy in the grandeur, I am determined
to take as little part in the disgrace.  I am looking about for a new house.

I have received two vast packets from you to-day, I believe from the bottom of the sea, for
they have been so washed that I could scarce read them.  I could read the terrible history
of the earthquakes at Leghorn: how infinitely good you was to poor Mrs. Goldsworthy!  How could
you think I should not approve such vast humanity? but you are all humanity and forgiveness.
I am only concerned that they will be present when you receive all these disagreeable accounts
of your friends.  Their support" is removed as well as yours.  I only fear the interest of
the Richmonds (458) with the Duke of Newcastle; but I will try to put you well with Lord Lincoln.
We must write circumspectly, for our letters now are no longer safe.

I shall see Amorevoli to-night to give him the letter.  Ah! Monticelli and the Visconti are
to sing to-night at a great assembly at Lady Conway's.  I have not time to write more: so,
good night, my dearest child! be in good spirits. Yours, most faithfully.

P. S. We have at last got Cr`ebillon's "Sofa:" Lord Chesterfield received three hundred, and
gave them to be sold at White's.  It is admirable! except the beginning of the first volume,
and the last story, it is equal to any thing he has written.  How he has painted the most refined
nature in Mazulhim! the most retired nature in Mocles! the man of fashion, that sets himself
above natural sensations, and the man of sense and devotion, that would skirmish himself from
their influence, are equally justly reduced to the standard of their own weakness.(459)

(443) Secker, Bishop of Oxford.

(444) Richard Temple, Viscount Cobham, so created in 1717, with remainder to the issue male
of his sister, Hester Grenville.  He had served in Flanders under the Duke of Marlborough,
and was upon the overthrow of Sir Robert Walpole's administration promoted to the military
rank of field marshal.  He is now best remembered as the friend of pope and the creator of
the gardens at Stowe.-D.

(445) Sir John Hinde Cotton, Bart. of Landwade, in Cambridgeshire; long a member of parliament,
and one of the leaders of the Jacobite party.  He died in 1752, and Horace Walpole, in his
Memoires, in noticing this event, says, "Died Sir John Cotton, the last Jacobite of any sensible
activity."-D.

Lord Carteret and Mr. Pulteney had really betrayed their party, and so injudiciously, that
they lost their old friends and gained no new ones.

(446) Sir Robert, at the persuasion of his brother, Mr. Selwyn, and others, desisted from this
grant.  Three years afterwards, when the clamour was at an end, and his affairs extremely involved,
he sued for it; which Mr. Pelham, his friend and `el`eve, was brought with the worst grace
in the world to ask, and his old obliged master the King prevailed upon, with as ill grace,
to grant. ["February 6. Sir R. Walpole was presented at Court as Earl of Orford.  He was persuaded
to refuse a grant of four thousand pounds a-year during the King's life and his own, but could
not be dissuaded from accepting a letter of honour from the King, to grant his natural daughter
Maria, precedence as an earl's daughter; who was also presented this day.  The same thing had
been done for Scrope, Earl of Sunderland, who left no lawful issue, and from one of whom Lord
Howe is descended."-Secker MS.]

(447) Mary, daughter of Edward Blount, Esq. and wife of Edward, ninth Duke of Norfolk.-D.

(448) The Princess of Wales.-D.

(449)General Charles Churchill.-D.

(450) Philip Gibbons, Esq.-D.

(451) Sir John Rushout, the fourth baronet of the family, had particularly distinguished himself
as an opponent of Sir R. Walpole's excise scheme.  He was made treasurer of the navy in 1743,
and died in 1775, at the advanced age of ninety-one.  His son was created Lord Northwick, in
1797.-D.

(452) George Treby, Esq.-D.

(453) Thomas Clutterbuck, Esq.  He left the Treasury in February 1742, and was made treasurer
of the navy.-D.

(454) "February II.  Lord Orford and Sir Charles Wager resigned.  Mr. Sandys kissed hands as
chancellor of the exchequer: Lord Wilmington declared first commissioner of the Treasury: offers
made to the Duke of Argyle, but refused: none to Lord Chesterfield."-Secker MS.-E.

(455) Lady Sandys was daughter of Lady Tipping, niece of Russel, Earl of Orford.

(456) Sir Thomas Wentworth, the great Earl of Strafford, took the title of Raby from a castle
of that name, which belonged to Sir Henry Vane, who, from that time, became his mortal foe.

(457) Sir Charles Wager. [In the following December Sir Charles was appointed treasurer of
the navy, which office he held till his death, in May 1743.)

(458) Mrs. Goldsworthy had been a companion of the Duchess of Richmond.

(459) Posterity has not confirmed the eulogium here given to the indecent trash of the younger
Cr`ebillon: but in the age of George II. coarseness passed for humour, and obscenity was wit."-D

224 Letter 54 To Sir Horace Mann. Feb. 18, 1741-2.

I write to you more tired, and with more headache, than any one but you could conceive! I came
home at five this morning from the Duchess of Norfolk's masquerade, and was forced to rise
before eleven, for my father, who came from Richmond to take his seat in the Lords, for the
Houses met to-day.  He is gone back to his retirement.  Things wear a better aspect: at the
great meeting (460) on Friday, at the Fountain, Lord Carteret and Lord Winchilsea (461) refused
to go, only saying, that they never dined at a tavern.  Pultney and the new chancellor of the
exchequer went, and were abused by his Grace of Argyll.  The former said he was content with
what was already done, and would not be active in any further proceedings, though he would
not desert the party.  Sandys said the King had done him the honour to offer him that place;
why should he not accept it? if he had not, another would: if nobody would, the King would
be obliged to employ his old minister again, which he imagined the gentlemen present would
not wish to see; and protested against screening, with the same conclusion as Pultney.  The
Duke of Bedford was very warm against Sir William Yonge; Lord Talbot (462) was so in general.(463)

During the recess, they have employed Fazakerley to draw up four impeachments; against Sir
Robert, my uncle, Mr. Keene, and Colonel Bladen, who was only commissioner for the tariff at
Antwerp.  One of the articles against Sir R. is, his having at this conjuncture trusted Lord
Waldegrave as ambassador, who is so near a relation (464) of the Pretender-. but these impeachments
are likely to grow obsolete manuscripts.  The minds of the people grow more candid: at first,
they made one of the actors at Drury Lane repeat some applicable lines at the end of Harry
the Fourth; but last Monday, when his Royal Highness-, had purposely bespoken "The Unhappy
Favourite" (465) for Mrs. Porter's benefit, they never once applied the most glaring passages;
as where they read the indictment against Robert Earl of Essex, etc.  The Tories declare against
further prosecution-if Tories there are, for now one hears of nothing but the Broad Bottom:
it is the reigning cant word, and means, the taking all parties and people, indifferently into
the ministry.  The Whigs are the dupes of this; And those in the Opposition affirm that Tories
no longer exist. Notwithstanding this, they will not come into the new ministry, unless what
were always reckoned Tories are admitted.  The Treasury has gone a-begging: I mean one of the
lordships, which is at last filled up with Major Compton, a relation of Lord Wilmington; but
now we shall see a new scene. On Tuesday night Mr. Pultney went to the Prince, and, without
the knowledge of Argyll, etc., prevailed on him to write to the King: he was so long determining,
that it was eleven at night before the King received his letter.  Yesterday morning the prince,
attended by two of his lords, two grooms of the Bedchamber, and Lord Scarborough,(466) his
treasurer went to the King's levee.(467) The King said, "How does the Princess do?  I hope
she is well."  The Prince kissed his hand, and this was all!  The Prince returned to Carlton
House, whither crowds went to him.  He spoke to the Duke of Newcastle and Mr. Pelham; but would
not to the three dukes, Richmond, Grafton, and Marlborough.(468)  At night the Royal Family
were all at the Duchess of Norfolk'@' and the streets were illuminated and bonfired.  To-day,
the Duke of Bedford, Lord Halifax, and some others, were at St. James's: the King spoke to
all the Lords.  In a day or two, I shall go with my uncle and brothers to the Prince's levee.

Yesterday there was a meeting of all the Scotch of our side, who, to a man, determined to defend
Sir Robert

Lyttelton (469) is going to marry Miss Fortescue, Lord Clinton's sister.

When our earl went to the House of lords to-day, he apprehended some incivilities from his
Grace of Argyll, but he was not there.  Bedford, Halifax, Berkshire,(470) and some more, were
close by him, but would not bow to him.  Lord Chesterfield wished him joy.  This is all I know
for certain; for I will not send you the thousand lies of every new day.

I must tell you how fine the masquerade of last night was.  There were five hundred persons,
in the greatest variety of handsome and rich dresses I ever saw, and all the jewels of London-and
London has some! There were dozens of ugly Queens of Scots, of which I will only name to you
the eldest Miss Shadwell!  The Princess of Wales was one, covered with diamonds, but did not
take off her mask: none of the Royalties did, but every body else.  Lady Conway (471) was a
charming Mary Stuart: Lord and Lady Euston, man and woman huzzars.  But the two finest and
most charming masks were their Graces of Richmond,(472) like Harry the Eighth and Jane Seymour:
excessively rich, and both so handsome @ Here is a nephew of the King of Denmark, who was in
armour, and his governor, a most admirable Quixote.  there were quantities of Vandykes, and
all kinds of old pictures walked out of the frames.  It was an assemblage of all ages and nations,
and would look like the day of judgment, if tradition did not persuade us that we are all to
meet naked, and if something else did not tell us that we shall not meet with quite so much
indifference, nor thinking quite so much of the becoming.  My dress was an Aurungzebe: but
of all extravagant figures commend me to our friend the Countess!(473)  She and my lord trudged
in like pilgrims with vast staffs in their hands; and she was so heated, that you would have
thought her pilgrimage had been, like Pantagruel's voyage, to the Oracle of the Bottle! Lady
Sophia was in a Spanish dress-so was Lord Lincoln; not, to be sure, by design, but so it happened.
When the King came in, the Faussans (474) were there, and danced an entr`ee.  At the masquerade
the King sat by Mrs. Selwyn, and with tears told her, that "the Whigs should find he loved
them, as he had the poor man that was gone!" He had sworn that he would not speak to the Prince
at their meeting, but was prevailed on.

I received your letter by Holland, and the paper about the Spaniards.  By this time you will
conceive that I can speak of nothing to any purpose, for Sir R. does not meddle in the least
with business.

As to the Sibyl, I have not mentioned it to him; I still am for the other.  Except that, he
will not care, I believe, to buy more pictures, having now so many more than he has room for
at Houghton; and he will have but a small house in town when we leave this.  But you must thank
the dear Chutes for their new offers; the obligations are too great, but I am most sensible
to their goodness, and, were I not so excessively tired now, would write to them.  I cannot
add a word more, but to think of the Princess:(475) "Comment! vous avez donc des enfans!" You
see how nature sometimes breaks out in spite of religion and prudery, grandeur and pride, delicacy
and `epuisements!  Good night! Yours ever.

(460) See an account of this meeting in Lord Egmonfs "Faction Detected." [To this meeting at
the Fountain tavern Sir Charles Hanbury Williams alludes in his Ode against the Earl of Bath,
called the Statesman-

"Then enlarge on his cunning and wit: Say, how he harangued at the Fountain; Say, how the old
patriots were bit, And a mouse was produced by a mountain."]

(461) Daniel Finch, seventh Earl of Winchilsea and third Earl of Nottingham.  He was made first
lord of the admiralty upon the breaking up of Sir R. Walpole's government.-D.

(462) William, second Lord Talbot, eldest son of the lord chancellor of that name and title.-D.

(463) The following is from the Secker MS.-"Feb. 12.  Meeting at the Fountain tavern of above
two hundred commoners and thirty-five Lords.  Duke of Argyle spoke warmly for prosecuting Lord
Orford, with hints of reflection on those who had accepted.  Mr. Pulteney replied warmly. 
Lord Talbot drank to cleansing the Augean stable of the dung and grooms.  Mr. Sandys and Mr.
Gibbon there.  Lord Carteret and Lord Winchilsea not.  Lord Chancellor, in the evening, in
private discourse to me, strong against taking in any Tories: owning no more than that some
of them, perhaps, were not for the Pretender, or, at least, did not know they were for him;
though, when I gave him the account first of my discourse with the Prince, he said, the main
body of them were of the same principles with the Tories."-E.

(464) His mother was natural daughter of King James II. (James, first Earl Waldegrave, appointed
ambassador to the court of France in 1730: died in 1741.-D.)

(465) banks's tragedy of "The Unhappy Favourite; or, the Earl of Essex," was first acted in
1682.  The prologue and epilogue were written by Dryden.  Speaking of this play, in the Tatler,
Sir Richard Steele says, "there is in it not one good line, and yet it is a play which was
never seen without drawing tears from some part of the audience; a remarkable instance, that
the soul is not to be moved by words, but things; for the incidents in the drama are laid together
so happily that the spectator makes the play for himself, by the force with which the circumstance
has upon his imagination."-E.

(466) Thomas Lumley, third Earl of Scarborough.-D.

(467) "February 17.  Prince of Wales went to St. James's.  The agreement made at eleven the
night before, and principally by Mr. Pultney; as Lord Wilmington told me.  The King received
him in the drawing-room: the Prince kissed his hand: he asked him how the Princess did: showed
no other mark of regard.  All the courtiers went the same day to Carlton House.  The Bishop
of Gloucester (Dr. Benson) and I went thither.  The Prince and princess civil to us both."
Secker MS.-E.

(468) Charles Spencer, second duke of Marlborough succeeded to that title on the death of his
aunt Henrietta, Duchess of Marlborough, in 1733.-D.

(469) Sir George Lyttelton, afterwards created Lord Lyttelton. Miss Fortescue was his first
wife, and mother of Thomas, called the wicked Lord Lyttelton.  She died in childbed and Lord
Lyttelton honoured her Memory with the well-known Monody which was so unfeelingly parodied
by Smollett.-D. [ Under the title of an "Ode on the Death of My Grandmother.")

(470 Henry Bowes Howard, fourth Earl of Berkshire.  He succeeded, in 1745, as eleventh Earl
of Suffolk, on the death, without issue, of henry, tenth earl.  He died in 1757.-D.

(471) Lady Isabella Fitzroy, Youngest daughter of the Duke of grafton, and wife of Francis
Seymour, Lord Conway of Hertford.

(472) Charles Lennox, master of the horse, and Sarah Cadogan, his duchess.  He died in the
year following.

(473) The Countess of Pomfret.

(474) Two celebrated comic dancers.

(475) Princess Craon, so often mentioned in these letters.-D.

227 Letter 55 To Sir Horace Mann. London, Feb. 25, 1742.

I am impatient to hear that you have received my first account of the change; as to be sure
you are now for every post.  This last week has not produced many new events.  The Prince of
Wales has got the measles,(476) so there has been but little incense offered up to him: his
brother of Saxe-Gotha has got them too. When the Princess went to St. James's, she fell at
the King's feet and struggled to kiss his hand, and burst into tears.  At the Norfolk masquerade
she was vastly bejewelled; Frankz had lent her forty thousand pounds worth, and refused to
be paid for the hire, only desiring that she would tell whose they were.  All this is nothing,
but to introduce one of Madame de Pomfret's ingenuities, who. being dressed like a pilgrim,
told the Princess, that she had taken her for the Lady of Loreto.

But you will wish for politics now, more than for histories of masquerades, though this last
has taken up people's thoughts full as much.  The House met last Thursday and voted the army
without a division: Shippen (477 alone, unchanged, Opposed it.  They have since been busied
on elections, turning out our friends and voting in their own.. almost without opposition.
The chief affair has been the Denbighshire election, on the petition of Sir Watkyn William
. 'They have voted him into parliament and the high-sheriff into Newgate.  Murray (478) was
most eloquent: Lloyd,(479) the counsel on the other side, and no bad one, (for I go constantly,
though I do not stay long, but "leave the dead to bury their dead," said that it was objected
to the sheriff, that he was related to the sitting member; but, indeed, in that country (Wales)
it would be difficult not to be related.  Yesterday we had another hearing of the petition
of the Merchants, when Sir Robert Godschall shone brighter than even his usual.  There was
a copy of a letter produced, the original having been lost: he asked whether the copy had been
taken before the original was lost, or after!

Next week they commence their prosecutions, which they will introduce by voting a committee
to inquire into all the offices: Sir William Yonge is to be added to the impeachments, but
the chief whom they wish to punish is my uncle.(480) He is the more to be pitied, because nobody
will pity him.  They are not fond of a formal message which the States General have sent to
Sir Robert, "to compliment him on his new honour, and to condole with him on being out of the
ministry, which will be so detrimental to Europe!

The third augmentation in Holland is confirmed, and that the Prince of Hesse is chosen generallissimo,
which makes it believed that his Grace of Argyll will not go over, but that we shall certainly
have a war with France in the spring. Argyll has got the Ordnance restored to him, and they
wanted to give him his regiment; to which Lord Hertford (481) was desired to resign it, with
the offer of his old troop again.  He said he had received the regiment from the King; if his
Majesty pleased to take it back, he might, but he did not know why he should resign it.  Since
that, he wrote a letter to the King, and sent it by his son, Lord Beauchamp, resigning his
regiment, his government, and his wife's pension, as lady of the bedchamber to the late Queen.

No more changes are made yet.  They have offered the Admiralty to Sir Charles Wager again,
but he refused it: he said, he heard that he was an old woman, and that he did not know what
good old women could do any where.

A comet has appeared here for two nights, which, you know, is lucky enough at this time and
a pretty ingredient for making prophecies.

These are all the news.  I receive your letters regularly, and hope you receive mine so: I
never miss one week.  Adieu! my dearest child! I am perfectly well; tell me always that you
are. Are the good Chutes still at Florence? My best love to them, and services to all.

Here are some new Lines much in vogue:(482)

                                   1741.

Unhappy England, still in forty-one (483) By Scotland art thou doom'd to be undone! But Scotland
now, to strike alone afraid, Calls in her worthy sister Cornwall's (484) aid; And these two
common Strumpets, hand in hand, Walk forth, and preach up virtue through the land; Start at
corruption, at a bribe turn pale, Shudder at pensions, and at placemen rail. Peace, peace!
ye wretched hypocrites; or rather With Job, say to Corruption, " Thou'rt our Father."

But how will Walpole justify his fate? He trusted Islay (485) till it was too late. Where were
those parts! where was that piercing mind! That judgment, and that knowledge of mankind! To
trust a Traitor that he knew so well! (Strange truth! I)ctray'd, but not deceived, he fell!)
He knew his heart was, like his aspect, vile; Knew him the tool, and Brother of Argyll! Yet
to his hands his power and hopes gave up; And though he saw 'twas poison, drank the cup! Trusted
to one he never could think true, And perish'd by a villain that he knew.

(476) "February 21.  Prince taken ill of the measles.  The King sent no message to him in his
illnesses Secker MS.-E.

(477) William Shippen, a celebrated Jacobite.  Sir R. Walpole said that he was the Only man
whose price he did not know. [See ante, p. 194, Letter 45.]

             (478)  William Murray, Mr. Pope's friend,
afterwards Solicitor, and then Attorney-general.

(479) Sir Richard Lloyd, who succeeded Mr. Murray, in 1754, as Solicitor-general.

(480) Horace Walpole, brother of Sir Robert.

(481) Algernon Seymour, Earl of Hertford, eldest son of Charles, called the proud Duke of Somerset,
whom he succeeded in that Title, and was the last Duke of Somerset of that branch; his son,
who is here mentioned, having died before him.-D.

(482) These Lines were written by Sir Charles Hanbury Williams. [And are published in the edition
of his works, in three volumes, 12 no.1.

(483) Alluding to the Grand Rebellion against Charles the First.

(484) The Parliament which overthrew Sir R. W. was carried
against him by his losing the majority of the Scotch and
Cornish boroughs; the latter managed by Lord Falmouth
                           and Thomas Pitt.

(485) Archibald Campbell, Earl of Islay, brother of John, Duke of
Argyll, in conjunction with whom (though then openly at variance)
he was supposed to have betrayed Sir R.
                           W. and to have let the Opposition
succeed in the Scotch elections, which were trusted to
                           his management.  It must be
observed, that Sir R. W. would never allow that he believed
                    himself betrayed by Lord Islay.

229 Letter 56 To Sir Horace Mann. London, March 3d, 1742.

I am Obliged to write to you to-day, for I am sure I shall not have a moment to-morrow; they
are to make their motion for a secret committee to examine into the late administration.  We
are to oppose it strongly, but to no purpose; for since the change, they have beat us on no
division under a majority of forty.  This last week has produced no new novelties; his Royal
Highness has been shut up with the measles, of which he was near dying, by eating China oranges.

We are to send sixteen thousand men into Flanders in the spring, under his Grace of Argyll;
they talk of the Duke of Marlborough and Lord Albemarle to command under him.  Lord Cadogan
(486) is just dead, so there is another regiment vacant: they design Lord Delawar's for Westmoreland;(487)
so now Sir Francis Dashwood (488) will grow as fond of the King again as he used to be-or as
he has hated him since.

We have at last finished the Merchants' petition, under the conduct of the Lord Mayor and Mr.
Leonidas;(489) the greatest coxcomb and the greatest oaf that ever met in blank verse or prose.
I told you the former's question about the copy of a letter taken after the original was lost.
They have got a new story of him; that hearing of a gentleman who had had the small-pox twice
and died of it, he asked, if he died the first time or the second-if this is made for him,
it is at least quite in his style.  After summing up the evidence (in doing which, Mr. Glover
literally drank several times to the Lord Mayor in a glass of water that stood by him,) Sir
John Barnard moved to vote, that there had been great neglect in the protection of the trade,
to the great advantage of' the enemy, and the dishonour of the nation.  He said he did not
mean to charge the Admiralty particularly, for then particular persons must have had particular
days assigned to be heard in their own defence, which would take up too much time, as we are
now going to make inquiries of a much higher nature.  Mr. Pelham was for leaving out the last
words.  Mr. Doddington rose, and in a set speech declared that the motion was levelled at a
particular person, who had so usurped all authority, that all inferior offices were obliged
to submit to his will, and so either bend and bow, or be broken: but that he hoped the steps
we were now going to take, would make the office of first minister so dangerous a post, that
nobody would care to accept it for the future.  Do but think of this fellow, who has so lost
all character, and made himself so odious to both King, and Prince, by his alternate flatteries,
changes, oppositions, and changes of flatteries and oppositions, that he can never expect what
he has so much courted by all methods,-think of his talking of making it dangerous for any
one else to accept the first ministership! Should such a period ever arrive, he would accept
it with joy-the only chance he can ever have for it! But sure, never was impudence more put
to shame! The whole debate turned upon him. Lord Doneraile (490) (who, by the way, has produced
blossoms of Doddington like fruit, and consequently is the fitter scourge for him) stood up
and said, he did not know what that gentleman meant; that he himself was as willing to bring
all offenders to justice as any man; but that he did not intend to confine punishment to those
who had been employed only at the end of the last ministry, but proposed to extend it to all
who had been engaged in it, and wished that that gentleman would speak with more lenity of
an administration, in which he himself had been concerned for so many years.  Winnington said,
he did not know what Mr. Doddington had meant, by either bending or being broken; that he knew
some who had been broken, though they had bowed an bended. Waller defended Doddington, and
said, if he was gilty, at least Mr. Winnington was so too; on which Fox rose up, and, laying
his hand on his breast, said, he never wished to have such a friend, as could only excuse him
by bringing in another for equal share of his guilt.  Sir John Cotton replied; he did not wonder
that Mr. Fox (who had spoken with great warmth) was angry at hearing his friend in place, compared
to one out of place.  Do but figure how Doddington must have looked and felt during such dialogues!
In short, it ended in Mr. Pultney's rising, and saying, he could not be against the latter
words, as he thought the former part of the motion had been proved . and wished both parties
would join in carrying on the war vigorously, or in procuring a good peace, rather than in
ripping open old sores, and continuing the heats and violences of parties.  We came to no division-for
we should have lost it by too many.

Thursday evening.

I had written all the former part of my letter, only reserving room to tell you, that they
had carried the secret committee-but it is put off till next Tuesday.  To-day we had nothing
but the giving up the Heydon election, when Mr. Ppultney had an opportunity (as Mr. Chute and
Mr. Robinson would not take the trouble to defend a cause which they could not carry) to declaim
upon corruption: had it come to a trial, there were eighteen witnesses ready to swear positive
bribery against Mr. Pultney.  I would write to Mr. Chute, and thank him for his letter which
you sent me, but I am so out of humour at his brother's losing his seat, that I cannot speak
civilly even to him to-day.

It is said, that my Lord's Grace of Argyll has carried his great point of the Broad Bottom-as
I suppose you will hear by rejoicings from Rome.  The new Admiralty is named; at the head is
to be Lord Winchilsea, with Lord Granard,(491) Mr. Cockburn, his Grace's friend, Dr. Lee, the
chairman, Lord Vere Beauclerc;(492) one of the old set, by the interest of the Duke of Dorset,
and the connexion of Lady Betty Germain, whose niece Lord Vere married; and two Tories, Sir
John Hind Cotton and Will. Chetwynd,(493) an agent of Bolingbroke's-all this is not declared
yet, but is believed.

This great Duke has named his four aid-de-camps-Lord Charles Hay; George Stanhope, brother
of Earl Stanhope; Dick Lyttelton, who Was page; and a Campbell.  Lord Cadogan is not dead,
but has been given over.

We are rejoicing over the great success of the Queen of Hungary's arms, and the number of blows
and thwarts which the French have received.  It is a prosperous season for our new popular
generals to grow glorious!

But, to have done with politics.  Old Marlborough has at last published her Memoirs; they are
digested by one Hooke, (494) who wrote a Roman history; but from her materials which are so
womanish, that I am sure the man might sooner have made a gown and petticoat with them.  There
are some choice letters from Queen Anne, little inferior in the fulsome to those from King
James to the Duke of Buckingham.

Lord Oxford's (495) famous sale begins next Monday, where there is as much rubbish of another
kind as in her grace's history.  Feather bonnets presented by the Americans to Queen Elizabeth;
elks'-horns -cups; true copies converted into candle of original pictures that never existed;
presents to himself from the Royal Society, etc. particularly forty volumes of prints of illustrious
English personages; which collection is collected from frontispieces to godly books, bibles
and head-pieces and tail-pieces to Waller's works; views of King Charles's sufferings; tops
of ballads; particularly earthly crowns for heavenly ones, and streams of glory.  There are
few good pictures.  for the miniatures are not to be sold, nor the manuscripts , the books
not till next year. There are a few fine bronzes, and a very fine collection of English coins.

We have got another opera,(496) which is liked.  There was to have been a vast elephant, but
the just directors, designing to give the audience the full weight of one for their money,
made it so heavy that at the prova it broke through the stage.  It was to have carried twenty
soldiers, with Monticelli on a throne in the middle.  There is a new subscription begun for
next year, thirty subscribers at two hundred pounds each.  Would you believe that I am one?
You need not believe it quite, for I am but half an one; Mr. Conway and I take a share between
us.  We keep Monticelli and Amorevoli, and to please Lord Middlesex, that odious Muscovita;
but shall discard Mr. Vaneschi. We are to have the Barberina and the two Faussans; so, at least,
the singers and dancers will be equal to any thing in Europe.

Our earl is still at Richmond: I have not been there yet; I shall go once or twice; for however
little inclination I have to it, I would not be thought to grow cool just now.  You know I
am above such dirtiness, and you are sensible that my coolness is of much longer standing.
Your sister is with mine at the Park; they came to town last Tuesday for the opera, and returned
next day.  After supper, I prevailed on your sister (497) to sing, and though I had heard her
before, I thought I never heard any thing beyond it; there is a sweetness in her voice equal
to Cuzzoni's, with a better manner.                                '

I was last week at the masquerade, dressed like an old woman, and passed for a good mask. 
I took the English liberty of teasing whomever I pleased, particularly old Churchill.  I told
him I was quite ashamed. of being there till I met him, but was quite comforted with finding
one person in the room older than myself. The Duke,(498) who had been told who I was, came
up and said, "Je connois cette poitrine." I took him for some Templar, and replied, "Vous!
vous ne connoissez que des poitrines qui sont bien plus us`ees." It was unluckily pat.  The
next night, at the drawing-room, he asked me, very good-humouredly, if I knew who was the old
woman that had teased every body at the masquerade.  We were laughing so much at this, that
the King crossed the room to Lady Hervey, who was with us, and said, "What are those boys laughing
at set" She told him, and that I had said I was so awkward at undressing myself, that I had
stood for an hour in my stays and under-petticoat before my footman.  My thanks to Madame Grifoni.
I cannot write more now, as I must not make my letter too big, when it appears at the secretary's
office nouc.  As to my sister, I am sure Sir Robert would never have accepted Prince Craon's
offer, who now, I suppose, would not be eager to repeat it.

(486) Charles, Lord Cadogan, of Oakley, to which title he succeeded on the death of his elder
brother, William, Earl Cadogan, who was one of the most distinguished "of Marlborough's captains."
Charles, Lord Cadogan, did not die at the period when this letter was written.  On the contrary,
he lived, till the year 1776.-D.

(487) John, seventh Earl of Westmoreland.  He built the Palladian Villa of Mereworth, in Kent,
which is a nearly   exact copy of the celebrated Villa Capra, near Vicenza.  He died in 1762.
Sir Francis Dashwood succeeded, on his decease, to the barony in fee of Le Despencer.-D.

(488) Sir Francis Dashwood, nephew to the Earl of Westmoreland, had gone violently into Opposition,
on that lord's losing his regiment.

(489) Mr. Glover. (Walpole always depreciates Glover; but his conduct, upon the occasion referred
to in the text, displayed considerable ability.-D.) [His speech upon this occasion was afterwards
published in a pamphlet, entitled, ,A short Account of the late Application to Parliament,
made by the Merchants of London, upon the Neglect of their Trade; with the Substance thereof,
as summed up by Mr. Glover.,,]

(490) Arthur Mohun St. Leger, third Viscount Doneraile, in
Ireland, of the first creation.
                 He was at this time member for Winchilsea, was
appointed a lord of the bedchamber to Frederick Prince of Wales
in 1747, and died at Lisbon in 1749.-D.

(491) George Forbes, third Earl of Granard in Ireland; an admiral, and a member of the House
of Commons.-D.

(492) Third son of the first Duke of St. Albans, created in 1750 Lord Vere of Hanworth in Middlesex.
He was the direct ancestor of the present line of the St. Albans family.  His wife was Mary,
daughter and heiress of Thomas Chambers, Esq. of Hanworth, by Lady Mary Berkeley, the sister
of lady Betty Germain.-D.

(493) William Richard Chetwynd    'second brother of the first viscount of that name; member
of parliament successively for Stafford and Plymouth.  He had been envoy at Genoa, and a lord
of the Admiralty; and he finally succeeded his two elder brothers as third Viscount Chetwynd,
in 1767.-D. [He was familiarly called "Black Will," and sometimes "Oroonoka Chetwynd," from
his dark complexion.  He died in 1770.]

(494) Nathaniel Hooke, a laborious compiler, but a very bad writer.  It is said, that the Duchess
of Marlborough gave him 5000 pounds for the services he rendered her, in the composition and
publication of her apology.  She, however, afterwards quarrelled with him, because she said
he tried to convert her to Popery.  Hooke was himself of that religion, and was also a Quietist,
and an enthusiastic follower of Fenelon.  It was Hooke who brought a Catholic priest to attend
the deathbed of Pope; a proceeding which excited such bitter inclination in the infidel Bolingbroke.
Hooke died July 19, 1763. [When Hooke asked Pope, "whether he should not send for a priest,
the dying    poet replied, "I do not suppose that is essential, but it will look right."-Spence,
p. 322.)

(495) Edward second Earl of Oxford and Earl Mortimer, only son of the minister, he was a great
and liberal patron of literature and learned men, and completed the valuable collection of
manuscripts commenced by his father, which is now in the British Museum. He married the great
Cavendish heiress, Lady Henrietta Cavendish Holles, daughter of Holles, Duke of Newcastle,
and died June 16, 1741.-D.

(496) By Buranello, and called "Scipione in Cartagine."-E. (497) Mary Mann, afterwards married
to Mr. Foote.

(498) Of Cumberland.  [William Augustus, third son of George II.)

234 Letter 57 To Sir Horace Mann. March 10, 1742.

I will not work you up into a fright only to have the pleasure of putting you out of it, but
will tell you at once that we have gained the greatest victory! I don't mean in the person
of Admiral Vernon, nor of Admiral Haddock; no. nor in that of his Grace of Argyll.  By we,
I don't mean we; England, but we, literally we; not you and I, but we, the House of Orford.
The certainty that the Opposition (or rather the Coalition, for that is the new name they have
taken) had of carrying every point they wished, made them, in the pride of their hearts, declare
that they would move for the Secret Committee yesterday (Tuesday), and next Friday would name
the list, by which day they should have Mr. Sandys from his reelection.  It was, however, expected
to be put off, as Mr. Pultney could not attend the House, his only daughter was dying-they
say she is dead.(499) But an affair of consequence to them, and indeed to the nation in general,
roused all their rage, and drove them to determine on the last violences.  I told you in my
last, that the new Admiralty was named, with a mixture of Tories; that is, it was named by
my Lord of Argyll; but the King flatly put his negative on Sir John Cotton.  They said he was
no Tory now, (and, in truth, he yesterday in the House professed himself a Whig,) and that
there were no Tories left in the nation.  The King replied, "that might be; but he was determined
to stand by those who had set him and his family upon the throne." This refusal enraged them
so much, that they declared they would force him, not only to turn out all the old ministry,
but the new too, if he wished to save Sir R. and others of his friends; and that, as they supposed
he designed to get the great bills passed, and then prorogue the Parliament, they were determined
to keep back some of the chief bills, and sit all the summer, examining into the late administration.
Accordingly, yesterday, in a most full house, Lord Limerick (500) (who, last year, seconded
the famous motion )501)) moved for a committee to examine into the conduct of the last twenty
years, and was seconded by Sir John St. Aubin.(502)  In short, (for I have not time to tell
you the debate at length,) we divided, between eight and nine, when there was not a man of
our party that did not expect to lose it by at least fifteen or twenty, but, to our great amazement,
and their as great confusion, we threw out the motion, by a majority of 244 against 242.(503)
Was there ever a more surprising event! a disgraced minister, by his personal interest, to
have a majority to defend him even from inquiry! What was ridiculous, the very man who seconded
the motion happened to be shut out at the division; but there was one on our side shut out too.

I don't know what violent step they will take next; it must be by surprise, for when they could
not carry this, it will be impossible for them to carry any thing more personal.  We trust
that the danger is now past, though they had a great meeting to-day at Doddington 'S,(504)
and threaten still.  He was to have made the motion, but was deterred by the treatment he met
last week.  Sir John Norris was not present; he has resigned all his employments, in a pique
for not being named of the new Admiralty.  His old Grace of Somerset (505) is reconciled to
his son, Lord Hertford, on his late affair of having the regiment taken from him: he sent for
him, and told him he had behaved like his son.

My dearest child, I have this moment received a most unexpected and most melancholy letter
from you, with an account of your fever and new operation.  I did not in the least dream of
your having any more trouble from that disorder! are YOU never to be delivered from it? Your
letter has shocked me extremely; and then I am terrified at the Spaniards passing so near Florence.
If they should, as I fear they will, stay there, how inconvenient and terrible it would be
for you, now you are ill! You tell me, and my good Mr. Chute tells me, that you are out of
all danger, and much better; but to what can I trust, when you have these continual relapses?
The vast time that passes between your writing and my receiving your letters, makes me flatter
myself, that by now you are out of all pain: but I am miserable, with finding that you may
be still subject to new torture!  not all your courage, which is amazing can give me any about
you.  But how can you write to me? I will not suffer it-and now, good Mr. Chute will write
for you.  I am so angry at your writing immediately after that dreadful operation, though I
see your goodness in it, that I will not say a word more to you.  All the rest is to Mr. Chute.

What shall I say to you, my dearest Sir, for all your tenderness to poor Mr. Mann and me? as
you have so much friendship for him, you may conceive how much I am obliged to you.  How much
do I regret not having had more opportunities of showing you my esteem and love, before this
new attention, to Mr. Mann.  You do flatter me, and tell me he is recovering--nay I trust you?
and don't you say it, only to comfort me?-Say a great deal for me to Mr. Whithed; he is excessively
good to me; I don't know how to thank him.  I am happy that you are so well yourself, and so
constant to your fasting.  To reward your virtues, I will tell you the news I know; not much,
but very extraordinary.  What would be the most extraordinary event that you think could happen?
Would not-next to his becoming a real patriot-the Duke of Argyll's resigning be the most unexpected?
would any thing be more surprising than his immediately resigning power at having felt the
want of them? Be that as it will, he literally, actually, resigned all his new commissions
yesterday, because the King refused to employ the Tories.(506)  What part he will act next
is yet to come.  Mrs. Boothby said, upon the occasion, "that in one month's time he had contrived
to please the whole nation-the Tories, by going to court; the Whigs, by leaving it."

They talk much of impeaching my father, since they could not committee him; but as they could
not, I think they will scarce be able to carry a more violent step.  However, to show how little
Tory resentments are feared, the King has named a new Admiralty; Lord Winchilsea, Admiral Cavendish,
Mr. Cockburn, Dr. Lee, Lord Baltimore, young Trevor,(507) (which is much disliked, for he is
of no consequence for estate, and less for parts, but is a relation of the Pelhams,) and Lord
Archibald Hamilton,(508)-to please his Royal Highness.  Some of his people (not the Lytteltons
and Pitts) stayed away the other night upon the Secret Committee, and they think he will at
last rather take his father's part, than Argyll's.

Poor Mr. PUltney has lost his girl: she was an only daughter, and sensible and handsome.  He
has only a son left, and, they say, is afflicted to the greatest degree.

I will say nothing about old Sarah's Memoirs; for, with some spirit they are nothing but remnants
of old women's frippery. Good night!  I recommend my poor Mr. Mann to you, and am yours, most
faithfully.

P. S. My dearest child, how unhappy I shall be, till I hear you are quite recovered

(499) The young lady died on the preceding evening.  She was in her fourteenth year.-E.

(500) William Hamilton, Lord Viscount Limerick. (According to the peerages, Lord Limerick's
Christian name was James, and not William.-D.)

(501) For removing Sir Robert Walpole.

(502) Sir John St. Aubyn, of Clowance in Cornwall, third baronet of that family.-D.  [He died
in 1744.

(503) March 9. Motion in the House of Commons for a secret committee to inquire into our affairs
for twenty or twenty-one years.  The Speaker said Ayes had it: one that was for it divided
the House.  The Noes carried it by 244 against 242.  Mr. Sandys at Worcester, Mr. Pulteny at
home-his daughter dying.  The Prince at New.  Several of his servants, and several Scotch members,
not at the House; nor Lord Winchelsea's brothers.  Gibbon, Rushout, Barnard voted for the committee,
but did not speak.  It is said that the Prince had before this written to Lord Carteret, to
desire that Lord Archibald Hamilton and Lord Baltimore might be lords of the Admiralty, and
that this had been promised."-Secker, MS.-E.

(504) "Never was there," writes Mr. Orlebar to the Rev.  Mr. Elough, "a greater disappointment.
Those who proved the minority, were so sure of being the majority, that the great Mr. Dodington
harangued in the lobby those who went out at the division to desire them not to go away, because
there were several other motions to be made in consequence of that: and likewise to bespeak
their attendance at the Fountain, in order to settle the committee.  Upon which Sir George
Oxenden, after they found it was lost, whispered -@t friend thus: I Suppose we were to desire
Mr. D. to print the speeches he has just now made in the lobby."

(505) Charles, commonly called "the proud Duke of Somerset."  An absurd, vain, pompous man,
who appears to have been also most harsh and unfeeling to those who depended on him.-D.

(506) March 10.  Duke of argyle resigned his places to the King.  He gave for a reason, that
a proposal had been made to him for going ambassador to Holland, which he understood to be
sending him out of the way." Secker MS.-E.

(507) The Hun. John Trevor, second son of Thomas, first Lord Trevor.  He succeeded his elder
brother Thomas, as third Lord Trevor, in 1744.-D.

(508) Lord Archibald Hamilton was the seventh and youngest son of Anne, Duchess of Hamilton,
in her own right, and of William, Earl of Selkirk, her husband, created by Charles II. Duke
of Hamilton, for life b.  Lord Archibald married Lady Jane Hamilton, daughter of James, Earl
of Abercorn, and by her had three sons; of whom the youngest was Sir William Hamilton, so long
the British envoy at the court of Naples.-D.

237 Letter 58 To Sir Horace Mann. Monday, March 22, 1742. [Great part of this letter is lost.]

*** I have at last received a letter from you in answer to the first I wrote you upon the change
in the ministry.  I hope you have received mine regularly since, that you may know all the
consequent steps.  I like the Pasquinades you sent me, and think the Emperor's(509) letter
as mean as you do.  I hope his state will grow more abject every day.  It is amazing, the progress
and success of the Queen of Hungary's arms! It is said to-day, that she has defeated a great
body of the Prussians in Moravia.  We are going to extend a helping hand to her at last.  Lord
Stair (510) has accepted what my Lord Argyll resigned, and sets out ambassador to Holland in
two days; and afterwards will have the command of' the troops that are to be sent into Flanders.
I am sorry I must send away this to-night, without being able to tell you the event of to-morrow;
but I will let you know it on Thursday, if I write but two lines.  You have no notion how I
laughed at Mrs. Goldsworthy's "talking from hand to mouth."(511)  How happy I am that you have
Mr. Chute still with you; you would have been distracted else with that simple woman; for fools
prey upon one when one has no companion to laugh Them off.

I shall say every thing that is proper for you to the earl, and shall take care about expressing
you to him, as I know you have your gratitude far more at heart, than what I am thinking of
for you, I mean your stay at Florence.  I have spoken very warmly to Lord Lincoln about you,
who, I am sure, will serve you to his power.  Indeed, as all changes are at a stop, I am convinced
there will be no thought of removing you.  However, till I see the situation of next winter,
I cannot be easy on your account.

I have made a few purchases at Lord Oxford's sale; a small Vandyke, in imitation of Teniers;
an old picture of the Duchess of Suffolk, mother of Lady Jane Grey, and her young husband;
a sweet bronze vase by Flamingo, and two or three other trifles.  The things sold dear; the
antiquities and pictures for about five thousand pounds, which yet, no doubt, cost him much
more, for he gave the most extravagant prices.  His coins and medals are now selling, and go
still dearer.  Good night!  How I wish for every letter to hear how you mend!

(509) Charles VII. the Emperor of the Bavarian family.-D.

(510) John Dalrymple, second Earl of Stair, a man much distinguished both as a general and
a diplomatist. [He served with credit at Dettingen; but, after that battle, resigned his military
rank, indignant at the King's unjust partiality to the Hanoverians.  However, on the rebellion
of 1745, he was made commander-in-chief, and materially assisted the Duke of Cumberland in
the campaign which ended at Culloden.  He died in 1747.]

(511) An expression of Mr. Chute.

238 Letter 59 To sir Horace Mann. March 24, 1742.

I promised you in my last letter to send you the event of yesterday.(512)  It was not such
as you would wish, for on the division, at nine o'clock at night, we lost it by 242 against
245.  We had three people shut out, so that a majority of three (513) is so small that it is
scarce doubted, but that, on Friday, when we ballot for the twenty-one to form the committee,
we shall carry a list composed of our people, so that then it will be better that we lost it
yesterday, as they never can trouble my Lord Orford more, when the Secret Committee consists
of his own friends.  The motion was made and seconded by the same people as before: Mr. Pultney
had been desired, but refused, yet spoke very warmly for it.  He declared, "that if they found
any proofs against the earl, he would not engage in the prosecution;" and especially protested
against resumptions of grants to his family, of which. he said, "there had been much talk,
but they were what he would never come into, as being very illegal and unjust." The motion
was quite personal against lord Orford, singly and by name, for his last ten years-the former
question had been for twenty years, but as the rules of Parliament do not allow of repeating
any individual motion in the same session of its rejection, and as 'every' evasion is allowed
in this country, half the term was voted by the same House of Commons that had refused an inquiry
into the whole; a sort of proof that every omne majus does not continere in se minus-but Houses
of Commons can find out evasions to logical axioms, as well as to their own orders.  If they
carry their list, my lord will be obliged to return from Houghton.

After the division.  Mr. Pultney(514) moved for an address to the King; to declare their resolution
of standing by him, especially in assisting the Queen of Hungary-but I believe, after the loss
of the question, he will not be in very good humour with this address.

I am now going to tell you what you, will not have expected-that a particular friend of yours
opposed the motion, and it was the first time he ever spoke.  To keep you not in suspense,
though you must have guessed, it was 220.(515)  As the speech was very favourably heard, and
has done him service, I prevailed with him to give me a copy-here it is:-

Mr. Speaker,(516)-I have always thought, Sir, that incapacity and inexperience must prejudice
the cause they undertake to defend; and it has been diffidence of myself, not distrust of the
cause, that has hitherto made me so silent upon a point on which I ought to have appeared so
zealous.

"While the attempts for this inquiry were made in general terms, I should have thought it presumption
in me to stand up and defend measures in which so many abler men have been engaged, and which,
consequently, they could so much better support; but when the attack grows more personal, it
grows my duty to oppose it more particularly, lest I be suspected of an ingratitude which my
heart disdains.  But I think, Sir, I cannot be suspected of that, unless my not having abilities
to defend my father can be construed into a desire not to defend him.

"My experience, Sir, is very small; I have never been conversant in business and politics,
and have sat a very short time in this house -with so slight a fund, I must much mistrust my
power to serve him-especially as in the short time I have sat here, I have seen that not his
own knowledge, innocence, and eloquence, have been able to protect him against a powerful and
determined party.  I have seen, since his retirement, that he has many great and noble friends,
who have been able to protect him from farther violence.  But, Sir, when no repulses can calm
the clamour against him, no motives should sway his friends from openly undertaking his defence.
When the King has conferred rewards on his services; when the Parliament has refused its assent
to any inquiries of complaint against him; it is but maintaining the King's and our own honour,
to reject this motion-for the repeating which, however, I cannot think the authors to blame,
as I suppose now they have turned him out, they are willing to inquire whether they had any
reason to do so.

