PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 158

JANUARY 14TH, 1920

CHARIVARIA.

The Premier, says a contemporary, has become greatly attached to a white terrier puppy that
he brought with him from Colwyn Bay. The report that it has been taught to run after its own
tail by Mr. LLOYD GEORGE himself is probably the work of malice.

* * *

Our heart goes out to the tenant of an experimental wooden house who is advertising for the
assistance of the man who successfully held up a post-office in London about a fortnight ago.

* * *

A London carman is said to have summoned his neighbour for calling him an O.B.E. We are sure
he could not have meant it.

* * *

"The most hygienic dress for all boys is the Scots kilt," says a correspondent of The Daily
Mail. "My own boys wear nothing else." We are glad to see that the obsolete Highland Practice
of muffling the ears in a cairngorm has been definitely discarded.

* * *

According to a contemporary a new form of road surface material, which is not injurious to
fish, has been produced by the South Metropolitan Gas Company. The utilisation of some of the
deeper cavities in our highways for the purpose of food production has long been a favourite
theme of ours.

* * *

"Having a tooth drawn," says a writer in Health Hints, "has its advantages." It certainly tends
to keep one's mind off the Coalition.

* * *

Two men have been charged at Sutton with selling water for whisky. People are now asking the
exact date when this was first made an offence.

* * *

At the present time a missionary costs twice as much as before the War, says the Rev. W.J.
FULLERTON. Many a cassowary has been complaining bitterly of the high cost of this comestible.

* * *

A new tango will be danced for the first time on January 15th, says The Daily Express. For
ourselves we shall try to go about our business just as if nothing really serious had happened.

* * *

Asked by the magistrate if her husband had threatened her, a Stratford woman replied, "No;
he only said he would kill me." Almost any little thing seems to irritate some people.

* * *

It appears that, after reading various references about his trial in the London papers, the
ex-Kaiser was heard to say that if we were not very careful he would wash his hands of the
whole business.

* * *

There is a lot of wishy-washy talk about the Bolshevists, says a Labour paper. Wishy, perhaps,
but from what we see of their pictures in the papers, not washy.

* * *

"Supplies of string for letter mail-bags," says The Post Office Circular, "will in future be
19 inches in length, instead of 18 inches." It is the ability to think out things like this
that has made us the nation we are to-day.

* * *

Offers are invited in a contemporary for a large quantity of tiger skins. People should first
make sure that the rest of the tiger has been properly removed before purchasing.

* * *

The composer of an American ragtime song is to have a statue erected to him in New York. It
is hoped that this warning will have the desired effect on any composers in this country who
may be tempted to commit a similar error.

* * *

We understand that, after several weeks of careful investigation into details, the special
Committee appointed by the Government to deal with Germany's refusal to pay for her sunken
fleet at Scapa have now recommended that no receipt should be given until the money is handed over.

* * *

"You will soon be able to get work," said the Kingston magistrate to a man summoned for income-tax.
This is the sort of thoughtless remark that tends to embitter the unemployed.

* * *

According to an evening paper, Granny LAMBERT, of Edmonton, proposed to the reporter who visited
her on her one-hundred-and-sixth birthday. As, however, she is experiencing some difficulty
in obtaining the consent of her parents the affair may possibly fall through.

* * *

Much sympathy is felt for the scrum-half who will be unable to assist his team this month on
account of being severely crocked whilst helping his wife at the Winter sales.

* * *

The London policeman who went across to Ireland for his Christmas holiday is still under strict
observation by mental experts.

* * *

We hear that the Congo Government have now decided that all Brontosauri must in future carry
a red front light and a green rear light when travelling at night-time.

* * *

The War Office is said to be making preparations to abolish the Tank Corps. It appears that
the Major-General who recently drove from Whitehall to Tothill Street in one of these vehicles
has reported unfavourably upon them, saying that he never got a wink of sleep the whole time.

* * *

A remarkable echo of Armageddon is reported from the Wimbledon district. A subscriber was rung
up the other day by "Trunks" and asked if he still wished to say good-bye to himself before
leaving for the Somme.

* * *

Thistles do more damage to agriculture than rats, declared the Montgomeryshire Agricultural
Executive Committee. Stung by this uncalled-for attack on his national vegetable a Scotchman
writes to say that within his knowledge more arable land has been laid waste by leeks than
by any other noxious weed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FASHIONS FOR MEN.

    ["Who will help the Disposal Board by starting some new fashion that
    would enable it to get rid of a great consignment of kilts as worn by
    the London Scottish, the Royal Scots and the Highland Light Infantry?"
    --Mrs. KELLAWAY on the Disposal Board's "Curiosity Shop."]

  There are who hanker for a touch of colour,
    So to relieve their sombre air;
  For me, I like my clothes to be much duller
    Than what the nigger minstrels wear;
  I hold by sable, drab and grey;
  I do not wish to be a popinjay.

  In vain my poor imagination grapples
    With these new lines in fancy shades,
  These purple evening coats with yellow lapels,
    These vests composed in flowered brocades;
  Nor can I think that noisy checks
  Would help me to attract the other sex.

  With gaudy schemes that rouse my solemn dander
    I leave our frivolous youth to flirt;
  A riband round my straw--for choice, Leander;
    A subtle nuance in my shirt;
  For tie, the colours of my school--
  These are the limits of my austere rule.

  But, when they'd have me swathe the clamorous tartan
    In lieu of trousers round my waist,
  Then they evoke the spirit of the Spartan
    Inherent in my simple taste;
  Inexorably I decline
  To drape the kilt on any hips of mine.

  It may be they will count me over-modest,
    Deem me Victorian, dub me prude;
  I may have early views, the very oddest,
    On what is chaste and what is rude;
  Yet am I certain that my leg
  Would not look right beneath a filibeg.

  I love the Scot as being truly British;
    Golf (and the Union) makes us one;
  Yet to my nature, which is far from skittish
    And lacks his local sense of fun,
  There is a something almost foreign
  About his strange attachment to the sporran.

  So, when a bargain-sale is held of chattels
    Surviving from the recent War--
  Textiles and woollens, built for use in battles--
    And Scotland's there inquiring for
  The kilt department, I shall not
  Be found competing. She can have the lot.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOMESTIC PROBLEM.

"Well, I've been to see three of them now," she said. "The first is at Shepherd's Bush--"

"What pipes!" I ejaculated. "What music! What wild ecstasy!"

"--four hundred yards from the Central Tube, to be exact; and there's a large roller skating-rink
next door. You never rolled, did you? Three sessions daily, the advertisement says."

"I'm afraid I sat oftener than that when I rolled," I confessed. "'Another transport split,'
as the evening papers say. I wonder whether Sir ERIC GEDDES is the rink-controller. But tell
me a little about the house. I suppose there's a high premium and a deep basement?"

"There are."

"Next, please."

"The next is at Chiswick; very damp and miles and miles to catch your bus. And there's a basement
again."

"You might grow mushrooms in the basement," I said hopefully, "while I hunted my Pimlico on
the shore. What about the third?"

"The third is at Hampstead, very high up and very salubrious. The agent says we should be able
to overlook the whole of London."

"Impossible," I protested; "you can't ignore a thing like London."

"I don't think he meant that exactly," she explained. "He said that from the top bedroom window
on bright days one could catch a glimpse of the dome of St. Paul's."

"That will be rather fine," I agreed. "We can have afternoon receptions in the top bedroom,
and print 'To meet the Dean and Chapter' on the card. People love meeting Chapters in real
life. What is the rental of this eyrie?"

She told me. It was as high as the site; and, again, there was a dug-out underneath.

"You haven't tried Ponder's End?" I said at last. "I've often seen those words on a bus, and
a lot of sad-looking people on the top, pondering, I suppose, the inevitable end."

"Well, which of them are we going to choose? It's the servant problem that's the real trouble,
you know. They simply won't cope with a basement nowadays."

"I think you overestimate the help crisis," I said. "There are two things that they really
want. The first is to have employers absolutely dependent on them, and the second is a gay
life. To take the first. I remember that when I was in digs--"

"Do you mind if I knit?" she asked.

--"when I was in digs it was my landlady's fondest delusion that I could do nothing to help
myself. And, of course, I was bound to foster the idea. Every night I used to hide my pipe
behind the coal-scuttle or my latchkey in the aspidistra, just for her to find. There was rather
a terrible moment once when she came in unexpectedly and caught me losing half-a-crown underneath
the hearth-rug; but I pretended to be finding it, and saved the situation. It will be just
the same with you. You will go down into the basement and pretend to mistake the flour for
the salt, and the cook will love you for ever. It's all done by kindness and incompetence."

"I suppose it is," she said doubtfully.

"And then there's amusements," I went on. "We will have Charles in once or twice a week. No
servant who has ever heard Charles trying to sing would prefer a night out at the cinema or
the skating-rink. If she does, we'll get a gramophone."

"Not for worlds," she gasped.

"Oh, you wouldn't have to listen to it. It would live in the basement, and HARRY LAUDER would
help the girl to clean the knives and break the cups, and GEORGE ROBEY would make washing the
dishes one grand sweet song. The basement would be a fairyland."

"All this doesn't seem to get us much further," she complained, "in deciding which of those
houses we're going to take."

"Oh, doesn't it?" I said, and, sitting down, I wrote a few lines rapidly and handed her the
draft for approval. She approved.

And that is why, if you look at The Times' "Domestic Situations" column to-morrow, you may
see the following announcement:--

HOUSE-PARLOURMAID WANTED, helpless couple, where gramophone kept; state whether Hampstead,
Chiswick or Shepherd's Bush preferred.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR INVINCIBLE NAVY.

ORDEAL BY WATER.

When the innermost recesses of the Admiralty archives yield their secrets to the historian
there will be some strange and stirring events to relate. But however diligently the chroniclers
may search amongst the accumulated records at Whitehall there will still remain one outstanding
performance, one shining example of courage and endurance of which no trace can there be found;
for it was never officially known how Reginald McTaggart upheld the honour of the White Ensign
in the Gulf of Lyons.

Reginald does not in the ordinary way suffer from excess of modesty; indeed he has been known
to hint that on more than one occasion it was primarily due to his efforts that the world was
eventually made safe for democracy; but of this his greatest exploit he will never speak without
pressure, and even then but diffidently.

When WILLIAM HOHENZOLLERN first cried "Havoc" and let slip the Prussian Guard, Reginald was
among the most unsophisticated of landsmen. He had never in his life so much as heard a bo'sun's
pipe and could scarcely distinguish a battleship from a bathing-machine. But the blood of a
maritime ancestry ran hot in his veins, and, being too highly educated to get on in the Army,
he placed himself at the disposal of the Senior Service, which embraced him gladly. Henceforth
his career was one of unbroken triumph.

Having taken a First in Mechanical Sciences at Cambridge, Reginald was at once detailed off
for deck-swabbing on a Portsmouth depôt ship; but one day an enterprising Rear-Admiral of the
younger school, noting his scientific manner of manipulating a squeegee, had him sent before
the Flag Captain, who, on learning his antecedents, recommended the blushing Reginald for the
post of batman to the Senior Wireless Officer. Here his talents showed to such advantage that
in a little over a year he received a commission as technical officer, and was placed in charge
of an experimental Torpedo School, well away from the storms and tempests that vexed his less
gifted brothers.

It were tedious to relate Reginald's adventures during the next two years--how time and again
he baffled the cunning devices of the German naval scientists--how he invented a pivotal billiard-table
for use on drifters in rough weather and perfected an electro-magnetic contrivance by means
of which enemy submarines were inveigled into torpedoing themselves without warning. All this
and much else is accessible to the formal historian; besides, Reginald tells people himself.
We will hurry on to the grand exploit.

It occurred shortly after he was appointed to a post on the British Naval Mission at Athens.
He had left England little more than a month when the Sea Lords became uneasy. Trouble broke
out among the torpedoes and there was no one to set matters right. Paragraphs began to appear
in the Press. The result was an urgent wireless message to Athens recalling Reginald at once.
There was to be no delay.

"Are you prepared to start immediately?" asked the Vice-Admiral, when he had briefly outlined
the situation.

Reginald saluted briskly.

"I don't quite know how you'll go," continued the Vice-Admiral. "We haven't an armed ship sailing
West for a week. There's a little Greek trading steamer leaving for Marseilles to-morrow morning,
but I'm afraid you would find her very incommodious. Would you care to risk it?"

"I start in the morning, Sir," said Reginald tersely.

The Vice-Admiral seized his hand and wrung it warmly.

When Reginald came down to the harbour and saw the craft on which he had undertaken to embark
he was seized with a sudden faintness. Even the toughest seafarer would have thought twice
before venturing beyond the breakwater in such an unsavoury derelict; and Reginald, be it remembered,
had only once in his life made a sea voyage, and that in the peaceful security of an ironclad.
His heart quailed beneath his Commander's uniform.

However, setting his teeth and consoling himself with the thought that she would undoubtedly
fall to pieces before they could leave the harbour behind, he went aboard.

