THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 20, No. 570.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ISLE OF WIGHT.

NOTES FROM A PEDESTRIAN EXCURSION IN THE ISLAND.

By a Correspondent.

Although the roads of the island have within the last twenty years been rendered passable for
vehicles of all kinds, even to stage coaches, yet by far the best mode of inspecting this English
Arcadia is to travel through it on foot, commencing at Ryde.

From this town a footpath leads across the park and grounds of St. John's into the high road
which may be followed to Brading. About a mile from that place is Nunwell, the seat of Sir
W. Oglander; and opposite is a delightful view of Bembridge (the birthplace of Madame de Feuchares)
and Brading Harbour, which at high water presents to the eye a rich, deep, green colour, with
an increased effect from being surveyed through the long line of tall elms on the road side.
Brading boasts of a mayor and corporation, and formerly sent a member to parliament, which
privilege was abolished by Queen Elizabeth. The town is of high antiquity, as is also the church,
which tradition says was the first built in the island. It contains few monuments of interest
or note, but the surrounding burial-ground can boast of a collection of epitaphs and inscriptions
which are above mediocrity.

On a rising ground at the end of the town is the Mall; at the entrance of which the earth reverberates
to the tread of horses' feet in a manner similar to that produced by riding over a bridge or
hollow. It is most probably occasioned by a natural cleft in the chalk beneath the gravel road.
Here the tourist should rest to enjoy a scene of unrivalled beauty. On the left, below the
road, lies the town of Brading, and more remote, St. Helen's Road, and the opposite coasts
of Portsmouth and Southsea. In front, at the foot of the hill, are the rich levels, with the
sinuous river Yar slowly winding towards the harbour, with the full broad front of Bembridge
Down interrupting the marine view, which is again presented on the right from the village of
Sandown to the extremity of Shanklin. At the foot of Brading Hill the road divides itself into
two branches. The one to the right leads direct to Shanklin, over Morton Common: the other
to the left lies through Yarbridge to Yaverland and Sandown. We recommend the latter, as the
farm-house and church at Yaverland are worthy of notice. The former is a fine capacious stone
building, of the time of James I., containing some well executed specimens of carved oak. The
church is annexed to the house, and has a curious semicircular doorway. Culver Cliffs, about
a mile and a half from Yaverland, may be approached by a footpath across the fields, which
will also lead to Hermit's Hole, a cavern of great depth in the side of the cliff. These cliffs
were much celebrated for a choice breed of falcons, which were esteemed so highly by Queen
Elizabeth, that she procured the birds regularly from the Culver Cliffs, and they were trained
with much care for her majesty's own use. On the shore beneath, but more towards Sandown, near
what is called the Red Cliff, (from the colour of the soil,) many fossil remains have been
lately discovered; some of animals of a gigantic size.

Sandown Fort is the next object in the road to Shanklin. "It commands the bay from which it
derives its name, and is a low, square building flanked by four bastions, and encompassed by
a ditch. A small garrison is kept in it. This fort commands the only part of the coast of the
island where an enemy could land. A castle was built near this by Henry VIII., and its establishment
in that monarch's reign was, a captain, at 4s. per day; an under captain, at 2s.; thirteen
soldiers, at 6d. per day each; one porter, at 8d.; one master gunner, at 8d.; and seven other
gunners, at 6d. per day. Fee 363l. 6s. 8d. It was erected to defend the only accessible place
of debarkation on the coast from the hostile visits the island had in this and the preceding
reign been so often subjected to; but, from the encroachments of the sea, it was deemed necessary,
in the time of Charles I. to remove the old structure, and with the materials to construct
the present building. The arms of Richard Weston, Earl of Portland, are carved in the panels
of the chimney-piece in the drawing-room, with the supporters, and collar of the Garter, and
implements of war."[1]

    [1] From Sheridan's Guide to the Isle of Wight--one of the
        best books of the kind that has lately fallen under our
        notice.

About half a mile from the Fort is Sandown Cottage, formerly the elegant retreat of the celebrated
John Wilkes, the chief star in the political horizon, during the administration of the Earl
of Bute. The cottage is situated as the Engraving shows, near the shore of Sandown Bay, which
extends about six miles, the eastern extremity being terminated by the chalky cliffs of Culver,
and the south-western by the craggy rocks of the mountainous part of Dunnose. The house is
small, and has been elegantly fitted up; in the gardens were some detached and pleasant apartments,
constructed with floorcloth of Kensington manufacture. But the labours of Wilkes's retirement
have been swept away, and there is scarcely a relic

    Where once the garden smiled.

Shanklin may be approached by the sea shore at low water or by Lake and Hillyards, if the high
road be preferred. At this delightful village seem assembled all the charms of rural scenery,
hill, wood, valley, corn field and water; aided by the wide extended ocean, reaching to the
eastern horizon, with the majestic white cliffs of Culver at the extremity of the bay on the
left, and the long range of cliffs of every hue and colour gradually declining in height as
the eye glances along to the cottages of Sandown, and then again imperceptibly rising to their
highest point of elevation.

The situation of the village of Shanklin is as romantic as any of the lovers of nature can
desire. The salubrity of the atmosphere and the proximity of the village to the sea may account
for the extraordinary growth of the myrtle-tree, which attains here an astonishing height.
Virgil tells us this plant is best cultivated on the sea side; but every maritime situation
is not congenial, unless a protection is afforded from the cold northerly winds.

The chief attraction of Shanklin is the Chine. This is a natural fissure or cleft in the earth,
running from the village to the sea in a circuitous direction and increasing in width and depth
as it approaches the shore. It was most probably formed by the long continued running of a
stream of water from the adjoining hills; this now forms a cascade at the commencement of the
path which has been formed in the side to facilitate strangers in exploring their way through
the rocks and underwood. But the admirers of sublime nature will mourn the ruthless devastation
that has thus been made, ostensibly for the public benefit, to serve private interest. In the
Chine is a chalybeate spring, highly impregnated with iron and alum, and of course beneficial
in cases of debility and nervous affections.

C.R.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES TO ----.

  Life's earliest sweets are wasted,
    And time impatient flies;
  The flowers of youth are blasted,
    Their lingering beauty dies.
  Yet my bosom owns a pleasure,
    That no icy breath can chill;--
  'Tis thy friendship, dearest treasure,
    For my hopes are with thee still.

  Though mine eye, by sorrow shaded,
    Drops the solitary tear,
  O'er remember'd joys, now faded,
    To young love and rapture dear.
  E'en the retrospective feeling,
    Leaves a momentary thrill;
  All the wounds of sorrow healing,
    For my hopes are with thee still.

  Though I've bid adieu to pleasure,
    With her giddy, fleeting train;
  And her song of joyous measure,
    I may never raise again.
  Yet the chilling gloom of sadness,
    Waving o'er me, brooding ill,
  Emits one ray of gladness,
    For my hopes are with thee still.

  When the reckless world is sleeping,
    And the star of eve shines gay;
  While the night winds softly creeping
    O'er the waters, die away;
  When the moonbeams softly playing,
    Silver o'er the glistening rill;
  'Tis to thee my thoughts are straying,
    For my hopes are with thee still.

  When the fragrant breath of morning
    Wanders o'er the silent dews;
  And flowers the vale adorning,
    Do their balmy sweets diffuse.
  When the orb of day appearing,
    From behind the distant hill,
  Gilds the landscape bright and cheering,
    E'en my hopes are with thee still.

Leeds.

J.B. WALKER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTIQUITY OF MALT LIQUOR.

Malt liquor appears to have had its origin in the attention paid by an eastern sovereign to
the comfort and health of his soldiers; as we are informed by the historian Xenophon, that
"the virtuous Cyrus" having observed the good effects that water in which parched barley had
been steeped, produced, exhorted and commanded his troops to drink this liquor; the historian
entitled it "Maza." It is highly probable that Cyrus adopted this drink to counteract the ill
effects of impure and foul water (which had done lasting injury to other warriors of his time),
which is so common in warm, sunny climates; as Pliny informs us, that if water be impure or
corrupted, by putting fried barley into it, in less than two hours, it will be pure and sweet;
that its bad effects will have evaporated, and that it then may be drunk with perfect safety;
he further adds that, this is the reason why we are in the habit of "putting barley-meal into
the 'wine-strainers' through which we pass our wines, that they may be refined, purified, and
drawn the sooner." The information conveyed to our readers by Pliny, may be made of great practical
use and benefit by mariners, to whom sweet water is such a desideratum; and is as important
to those who traverse the arid deserts of Africa, where sweet water is so seldom found.

That the ancients used the "juice of the grape," and that almost as a common drink, has never
been doubted by the most cursory reader of history; the knowledge of this liquor being nearly
coeval with the first formation of society. In the Book of Genesis we read that Noah after
the flood planted a vineyard, "manufactured" wine, and got intoxicated with this "nectar fit
for gods." Beer can likewise boast of as great antiquity. Its use was not unknown by the Egyptians;
as we are informed by Herodotus that the people of Egypt made use of a kind of wine made from
dried barley, because no vines grew in that country. According to Tacitus, in his time beer
was the common drink of the Germans, who drank it in preference to that more stimulating (if
not more nutritious) liquor, wine. We are also informed by Pliny, that it was made and was
in common use amongst the Gauls, and by many of their neighbours. The name he gave to this
drink was "cerevisia" which evidently alludes to the article from which it was composed. Although
these nations held this liquor in such estimation, there has been no record to inform us of
their mode of preparing it.

Ale was introduced into our country centuries ago, by our Saxon ancestors, and it was not long
ere it became the favourite and common drink of all classes of society. Their habit of drinking
it out of skulls, at their feasts, is well known to the reader of romance. It was then, as
it is now, commonly sold at houses of entertainment to the people. After the Norman Conquest,
the vine was very extensively planted in England, but was drunk alone, as a chronicle of that
time says, "by the wise and the learned;" the people did not lose their relish for the beverage
of their forefathers, and wine was never held in much respect by them. Hops had hitherto not
been used in the composition of beer; but about the fifteenth century they were introduced
by the brewers of the Netherlands with great success; from them we adopted the practice, and
they came into general use about two centuries afterwards. Some historians have affirmed that
Henry VI. forbade the planting of hops; but it is certain that "bluff King Hal" ordered brewers
to put neither hops nor sulphur into their ale. The taste of the nation in the reign of Henry
VI. seems to have changed, as we find in the records of that time that extensive "privileges"
(monopolies these enlightened times would have called them) were annexed to hop-grounds. In
the reign of James I. the produce of hop-grounds were insufficient for the consumption, and
a law was made against the introduction of "spoilt hops." Walter Blithe, in his Improver Improved,
published in 1649, (3rd edit. 1653) has a chapter upon improvements by plantations of hops,
which has this striking passage. He observes that "hops were then grown to be a national commodity;
but that it was not many years since the famous city of London petitioned the Parliament of
England against two nuisances; and these were, Newcastle coals, in regard to their stench,
&c., and hops, in regard they would spoyl the taste of drink, and endanger the people: and,
had the Parliament been no wiser than they, we had in a measure pined, and in a great measure
starved; which is just answerable to the principles of those men who cry down all devices,
or ingenious discoveries, as projects, and therefore stifle and choak improvements." According
to a late writer, in the year 1830, there were 46,727 acres occupied in the cultivation of
hops in Great Britain alone.

Thirty millions of bushels of barley are annually converted into malt by the breweries of Great
Britain; and upwards of eight millions of barrels of beer (of which more than four-fifths are
strong) are brewed annually. This enormous consumption attests the fondness of the people for
the beverage of their forefathers.

E.J.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PERSIAN FABLE.

Imitated from the Latin of Sir W. Jones.

  Whoe'er his merit under-rates,
  The worth which he disclaims, creates.
  It chanc'd a single drop of rain
  Slip'd from a cloud into the main:
  Abash'd, dispirited, amaz'd,
  At last her small, still voice she rais'd:
  "Where, and what am I?--Woe is me!
  What a mere drop in such a sea!"
  An oyster, yawning where she fell,
  Entrap'd the vagrant in his shell;
  And there concocted in a trice,
  Into an orient pearl of price.
  Such is the best and brightest gem,
  In Britain's royal diadem.[2]

E.B.J.

    [2] See page 330.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOSPITAL OF ST. CROSS, HANTS.

(Concluded from page 219.)

Interior of the Church.

Dr. Milner considers the entire fabric as the work of Bishop de Blois, with the exception of
the front and upper story of the west end, which are of a later date, and seem to have been
altered to their present form about the time of Wykeham. The vaulting of this part was evidently
made by the second founder, Beaufort, whose arms, together with those of Wykeham, and of the
Hospital, are seen in the centre orbs of it: that at the east end, by the Saxon ornaments with
which it is charged, bespeaks the workmanship of the first founder, De Blois. "The building
before us," Dr. Milner further observes, "seems to be a collection of architectural essays,
with respect to the disposition and form, both of the essential parts and of the subordinate
ornaments. Here we find the ponderous Saxon pillar, of the same dimensions in its circumference
as in its length, which, however supports an incipient pointed arch. The windows and arches
are some of them short, with semicircular heads; and some of them immoderately long, and terminating
like a lance; others are of the horse-shoe form, of which the entry into the north porch is
the most curious specimen:[3] in one place, (on the east side of the south transept,) we have
a curious triangular arch. The capitals and bases of the columns vary alternately in their
form, as well as in their ornaments: the same circumstance is observable in the ribs of the
arches, especially in the north and south aisles, some of them being plain, others profusely
embellished, and in different styles, even within the same arch. Here we view almost every
kind of Saxon and Norman ornaments, the chevron, the billet, the hatched, the pillet, the fret,
the indented, the nebulé, and the wavey, all superbly executed."[4]

    [3] The writer of the paper in The Crypt, already referred
        to, observes that the above arch is not what he
        understands by horse-shoe: "it is, in fact, one of those
        short, wide doorways, used both early and late, the
        proportions of which we know not how to describe better
        than as the earliest pointed arch curtailed of about
        one-half its usual height betwixt the base and capital.
        The entrance to St. John's House, Winton, is a good
        example."

    [4] Milner's Winchester, vol. ii. p. 149.

The lower part of the Nave, as we have already seen, is the most ancient, and allowed to be
the work of De Blois. A portion is included within the choir by throwing back a high wooden
screen, within which reclines the full-length figure, in brass, of John de Campden, the friend
of Wykeham, who appointed him master of the Hospital. "The arches which separate the nave from
its aisles are pointed; but the columns are of enormous compass, their circumference being
equal to their height; the capitals are varied, the bases square, and three out of the four
decorated at the angles with huge bosses of flowers. The roof is simple, with the arms of Beaufort,
Wykeham, and others, at the intersections of the ribs, which spring from corbel heads." The
great western window consists of four parts; on each side are two lights terminating in a distinct
arch; in the centre, one light of larger dimensions; and over these, a Catherine wheel composed
of three triangles. The whole is filled with painted glass, a small portion of which is ancient;
the remainder was presented in 1788, by Dr. Lockman, the late master. Dr. Milner terms it curious:
but the critic of The Crypt refers to it as "an exemplification of how much trash and vulgarity
in the art can be crowded into a certain compass."[5] Beneath this window stands a double doorway,
surmounted by a small quatrefoil window of like colours, enclosed within a pointed arch. The
exterior view of this portal is very fine, and Messrs. Brayley and Britton place it next to
the east end, (which is hardly of later date than 1135,) in gradation of style, and refer to
it as "an elegant specimen of the time of King John, or the early part of the reign of Henry
the Third."[6] Dr. Milner describes this portal as "one of the first specimens of a canopy
over a pointed arch, which afterwards became so important a member in this style of architecture:"
he also refers to the window above it as "one of the earliest specimens of a great west window,
before transoms, and ramified mullions, were introduced; and therefore the western end of the
church must have been altered to receive this and the door beneath it, about the beginning
of the thirteenth century, the eastern extremity of the church being left, as it still continues,
in its original state. There is a plain canopy, without any appearance of a pediment over the
arch of this window, like that over the portal."[7]

    [5] We should imagine The Crypt Correspondent to be no
        enthusiastic admirer of ancient painted glass, unless of
        the first order of execution. It must be confessed that
        some ancient specimens have been immoderately over-rated,
        and the olden art has altogether been enveloped in such
        mystery as to cause modern attempts to be unfairly
        estimated.

    [6] Beauties of England, vol. vi. p. 111.

    [7] Essays on Gothic Architecture, 1802, p. 144, 148.

"In the North Aisle, a little to the left as you enter from the porch, stands a very ancient
granite font, perhaps of Saxon workmanship; the basin is round, but the exterior form is square,
and, although mounted on mean stone, still maintains its station upon a raised space of Saxon
brick; a circumstance worthy of remark, as the original situation of the font has of late occasioned
some little controversy. It is also curious, that the walls on the south side should be far
less massive than those on the north, though both unquestionably of the same aera. The windows
in each aisle are, for the most part, circular, and each is decorated occasionally with Norman
capitals and groinings."[8] The aisles, on each side, are much lower than the body of the nave,
and in the north aisle is a cinquefoil arch, with Gothic canopy and crockets, resting on short
columns of Purbeck stone, over an elegant altar tomb. A modern inscription assigns it to "Petrus
de Sancta Maria, 1295."

    [8] The Crypt, No. vii. p. 168.

The transepts display a variety of arches and windows, of irregular arrangement, both round
and pointed. Some of those in the south seem to have opened into chancels or recesses, and
some probably were mere cupboards: but in the north wall of the opposite transept are two arches
communicating with the sick chambers of the Hospital, by opening which "the patients, as they
lay in their beds, might attend to the divine services going forward." Both these transepts
are profusely enriched with embattled and other mouldings. One window on the east side of each
has been so contrived as to throw the light in a sloping direction into the body of the church,
instead of reflecting it directly, and to less purpose, on the opposite wall; that in the north
retains a portion of its painted glass, but the corresponding one in the south has been blocked up.

We have already spoken of the aisles attached to the sides of the choir, and their beautiful
embellishments. Each is decorated with three circular-headed windows, and exhibits a few traces
of its ancient altars. That towards the north contains a very curious piscina, fixed upon a
pillar, and with small holes pierced round a raised centre, precisely resembling a modern sink.
There are likewise the remains of several pedestals, on which images may be supposed to have
once stood.

"The choir extends, according to modern arrangement, beyond the tower into the nave itself.
The tower rises very nobly upon four slender columns, terminating in pointed arches but with
Norman capitals. The lantern is lighted by four lancet windows on each side, the two centre
ones not being open. The oaken roof is plain, and supported by very large beam-heads. Eastward
from this point, the vaultings of the roof are square, with broad, simple groinings. Beneath,
are two ranges of windows, running quite round the chancel, and decorated with an amazing variety
of mouldings. Those below form the grand characteristic of this venerable pile, being likewise
circular; but so intersecting one another as to form perfect and beautiful pointed arches."
This then is the hypothesis of Dr. Milner towards the settlement of the controverted origin
of the pointed or English style of architecture. It is, probably, the most reasonable of all
solutions. Sir Christopher Wren's account of a Saracenic origin was vague and unsupported;
and Warburton's deduction from groves and interlacing boughs, though ingeniously illustrated
by the late Sir James Hall, has more prettiness than probability. Dr. Milner's "intersecting
hypothesis," as it is technically termed, is brief and simple: "De Blois," he says, "having
resolved to ornament the whole sanctuary of his church with intersecting semicircles, conceived
the idea of opening them, by way of windows, which at once produced a series of highly-pointed
arches." Hence arose the seeming paradox, that "the intersection of two circular arches in
the church of St. Cross, produced Salisbury steeple." Conclusive as this hypothesis may appear,
it has been much controverted, and among its opponents have been men of great practical knowledge
in architecture. Messrs. Brayley and Britton observe "though the specimens referred to by Dr.
Milner may not entirely warrant the above supposition, yet they clearly mark the gradation
by which the Saxon and Norman styles of architecture were abandoned, for the more enriched
and beautiful order that has conferred so much celebrity on the ecclesiastical architects of
this country."[9] The clever writer in The Crypt remarks "the history of the science appears
so easy and natural according to Dr. Milner's hypothesis, and so many difficulties must be
softened down, so many discordances reconciled, according to any other, as to go a very great
way towards establishing the credibility of his idea. Here then is a complete history of an
invention, for which every quarter of the globe has been ransacked. And, be it remembered,
that the pointed arch did not first display itself in those magnificent proportions, which
would have accompanied it from the beginning, if brought over from foreign climes in its full
perfection; but exactly in that want of proportion, which was the natural result of the intersection."[10]

    [9] Beauties of England, vol. vi. p 110.

    [10] The specimens at St. Cross were considered by Dr. Milner
         to be the earliest instances of the experiment, but the
         Abbey of Clugny, and several other edifices have disputed
         its claim to priority.--The Crypt, No. 8.

To return to the choir. On each side of the altar is curious and elegant Gothic spire-work;
and traces may be seen of ancient stone work, all that now remains of the high altar. The wooden
altar-screen is described as "execrable enough"; but sixteen stalls in the choir, which are
referred to the time of Henry VII., are ingeniously ornamented with "carved figures of illustrious
scripture personages."[11]

    [11] These have been engraved by Mr. Carter, for his Specimens
         of Ancient Sculpture, together with the Brass in memory
         of John de Campden, &c.

The pavement throughout the church is still chiefly composed of glazed tiles, "called and supposed
to be Roman; though upon some of them we clearly see the hatched and other Saxon ornaments,"
and upon others the monosyllables HAVE MYNDE (Remember) in the black letter characters used
in the fifteenth century. There are passages running round each story, and communicating with
the tower; but, "with all its magnificence, the general aspect of the interior is sadly disfigured
by a thick coating of yellow ochre." (The Crypt.)

Such is the venerable pile of St. Cross, surrounded by some of the finest scenery in the county.
Our Correspondent P.Q. earnestly observes "it was in and near this hospital that he was educated;
in its noble church he was a chorister, and his feelings of veneration for the whole establishment,
dedicated to the highest of Christian virtues, will never be effaced." Would that every heart
beamed with so amiable a sense of gratitude.

