And she answered as if with difficulty:

"I do not want to cry--only my eyes perspire--oh!"

The last ejaculation burst from her lips because at that moment from the direction of the forest
thundered a second roar even stronger than the first for it was nearer. The horses began to
push upon the zareba and were it not for the long and hard-as-steel thorns of the acacia branches,
they would have demolished it. Saba growled and at the same time trembled like a leaf, while
Kali began to repeat with a broken voice:

"Master, two! two! two!"

And the lions, aware of each other's presence, did not cease roaring, and the horrible concert
continued in the darkness incessantly, for when one beast became silent the other began again.
Stas soon could not distinguish from where the sounds came, as the echoes repeated them in
the ravine; rock sent them back to rock, they ascended and descended, filling the forest and
the jungle, and the entire darkness with thunder and fear.

To the boy one thing seemed certain, and that was that they approached nearer and nearer. Kali
perceived likewise that the lions ran about the encampment making a smaller circle each moment,
and that, prevented from making an attack only by the glare of the flames, they were expressing
their dissatisfaction and fear by their roar.

Evidently, however, he thought that danger threatened only the horses, as, spreading his fingers,
he said:

"The lions will kill one, two, not all! not all!"

"Throw wood into the fire," repeated Stas.

A livelier flame burst forth; the roars suddenly ceased. But Kali, raising his head and gazing
upwards, began to listen.

"What is it?" Stas asked.

"Rain," replied the negro.

Stas in turn listened. The branches of the tree mantled the tent and the whole zareba so that
not a drop of rain fell upon the ground, but above could be heard the rustle of leaves. As
the sultry air was not stirred by the slightest breeze, it was easy to surmise that it was
the rain which began to murmur in the jungle.

The rustle increased with each moment and after a time the children saw drops flowing from
the leaves, similar in the luster of the fire to ruddy pearls. As Kali had forecast, a downpour
began. The rustle changed into a roar. Ever-increasing drops fell, and finally through the
dense foliage whole streams of water began to penetrate.

The camp-fire darkened. In vain Kali threw whole armfuls into it. On the surface the wet boughs
smoked only, and below, the burning wood began to hiss and the flame, however much it was replenished,
began to be extinguished.

"When the downpour quenches the fire, the zareba will defend us," Stas said to pacify Nell.

After which he conducted the little girl into the tent and wrapped her in plaids, but he himself
went out as quickly as possible as the briefly interrupted roars had broken out again. This
time they sounded considerably nearer and as if they were gleeful.

The downpour intensified with each moment. The rain pattered on the hard leaves and splashed.
If the camp-fire had not been under the shelter of the boughs, it would have been quenched
at once, but as it was there hovered over it mainly smoke, amid which narrow, blue little flames
glittered. Kali gave up the task and did not add any more deadwood. Instead he flung a rope
around the tree and with its aid climbed higher and higher on the trunk.

"What are you doing?" Stas asked.

"Kali climbs the tree."

"What for?" shouted the boy, indignant at the negro's selfishness.

Bright, dreadful flashes of lightning rent the darkness and Kali's reply was drowned by a peal
of thunder which shook heaven and the wilderness. Simultaneously a whirlwind broke out, tugged
the boughs of the tree, swept away in the twinkling of an eye the camp-fire, seized the embers,
still burning under the ashes, and carried them with sheaves of sparks into the jungle.

Impenetrable darkness temporarily encompassed the camp. A terrible tropical storm raged on
earth and in the sky. Thunder followed thunder, lightning, lightning. The gory zigzags of thunderbolts
rent the sky, black as a pall. On the neighboring rocks appeared strange blue balls, which
sometimes rolled along the ravine and then burst with a blinding light and broke out with a
peal so terrible that it seemed as if the rocks would be reduced to powder from the shock.

Afterwards darkness again followed.

Stas became alarmed about Nell and went groping in the darkness to the tent. The tent, protected
by the white-ant hillock and the giant tree-trunk, stood yet, but the first strong buffet of
the whirlwind might pull out the ropes and carry it the Lord knows where. And the whirlwind
subsided, then broke out again with a fury, carrying waves of rain, and clouds of leaves, and
branches broken off in the adjacent forest. Stas was beset with despair. He did not know whether
to leave Nell in the tent or lead her out of it. In the first case she might get entangled
in the ropes and be seized with the linen folds, and in the other she would get a thorough
drenching and also would be carried away, as Stas, though beyond comparison stronger, with
the greatest difficulty could keep on his feet.

The problem was solved by the whirlwind which a moment later carried away the top of the tent.
The linen walls now did not afford any shelter. Nothing else remained to do but to wait in
the darkness in which the lions lurked, until the storm passed away.

Stas conjectured that probably the lions had sought shelter from the tempest in the neighboring
forest, but he was certain that after the storm they would return. The danger of the situation
increased because the wind had totally swept away the zareba.

Everything was threatened with destruction. The rifle could not avail for anything, nor could
his energy. In the presence of the storm, thunderbolts, hurricane, rain, darkness, and the
lions, which might be concealed but a few paces away, he felt disarmed and helpless. The linen
walls tugged by the wind splashed them with water from all sides, so, enclosing Nell in his
arms, he led her from the tent; after which both nestled close to the trunk of the tree, awaiting
death or divine mercy.

At this moment, between one blow of the wind and another, Kali's voice reached them, barely
audible amidst the splashing of the rain.

"Great master! Up the tree! up the tree!"

And simultaneously the end of a wet rope, lowered from above, touched the boy's shoulder.

"Tie the 'bibi,' and Kali will pull her up!" the negro continued to shout.

Stas did not hesitate a moment. Wrapping Nell in a saddle-cloth in order that the rope should
not cut her body, he tied a girdle around her; after which he lifted her and shouted:

"Pull!"

The first boughs of the tree were quite low so Nell's aerial journey was brief. Kali soon seized
her with his powerful arms and placed her between the trunk and a giant bough, where there
was sufficient room for half a dozen of such diminutive beings. No wind could blow her away
from there and in addition, even although water flowed all over the tree, the trunk, about
fifteen feet thick, shielded her at least from new waves of rain borne obliquely by the wind.

Having attended to the safety of the little "bibi," the negro again lowered the rope for Stas,
but he, like a captain who is the last to leave a sinking ship, ordered Mea to go ahead of him.

Kali did not at all need to pull her as in a moment she climbed the rope with skill and agility
as if she were the full sister of a chimpanzee. For Stas it was considerably more difficult,
but he was too well-trained an athlete not to overcome the weight of his own body together
with the rifle and a score of cartridges with which he filled his pockets.

In this manner all four found themselves in the tree. Stas was so accustomed to think of Nell
in every situation that now he was occupied, above all, in ascertaining whether she was not
in danger of falling, whether she had sufficient room and whether she could lie down comfortably.
Satisfied in this respect, he began to wrack his brains as to how to protect her from the rain.
But for this there was no help. It would have been easy to construct during the daytime some
kind of roof over her head, but now they were enveloped in such darkness that they could not
see each other at all. If the storm at last passed away and if they succeeded in starting the
fire again, they might dry Nell's dress! Stas, with despair, thought that the little girl,
soaked to the skin, would undoubtedly on the following day suffer from the first attack of fever.

He feared that towards the morning, after the storm, it would be as cool as it was on the previous
night. Thus far the wind was rather warm and the rain as though heated. Stas was surprised
at its persistence as he knew that the more strongly a storm raged the shorter was its duration.

After a long time the thunder abated and the buffets of the wind weakened, but the rain continued
to fall, less copious, indeed, than before, but so heavy and thick that the leaves did not
afford any protection against it. From below came the murmur of water as if the whole jungle
were transformed into a lake. Stas thought that in the ravine certain death would have awaited
them. Immense sorrow possessed him at the thought of what might have become of Saba, and he
did not dare to speak of him to Nell. He, nevertheless, had a slight hope that the intelligent
dog would find a safe haven among the rocks projecting above the ravine. There was not, however,
a possibility of going to him with any aid.

They sat, therefore, one beside the other amid the expanding boughs, drenched and waiting for
the day. After the lapse of a few more hours the air began to cool and the rain finally ceased.
The water too flowed down the slope to a lower place as they could not hear a splash or a murmur.
Stas had observed on the previous days that Kali understood how to stir up a fire with wet
twigs, so it occurred to him to order the negro to descend and try whether he would not succeed
this time. But at the moment in which he turned to him something happened which froze the blood
in the veins of all four.

The deep silence of the night was rent suddenly by the squeaking of horses, horrible, shrill,
full of pain, fears, and mortal dismay. Some mischief was afoot in the darkness; there resounded
short rattlings in the throat, afterwards hollow groans, a snorting, a second squeak yet more
penetrating, after which all was quiet.

"Lions, great Master! Lions killing horses!" whispered Kali.

There was something so horrible in this night attack, in the superior force of the monsters,
and in the sudden slaughter of the defenseless animals that Stas for a time was struck with
consternation, and forgot about the rifle. What, after all, would it have availed him to shoot
in such darkness? Unless for this, that those midnight assassins, if the flash and report should
frighten them, would abandon the horses already killed, and start after those which were scared
away and had run from the camp as far as their fettered legs would permit them.

Stas' flesh began to creep at the thought of what would have happened if they had remained
below. Nell, nestling close to him, shook as if she already were suffering the first attack
of fever, but the tree at least protected them from an attack of lions. Kali plainly had saved
their lives.

It was, however, a horrible night--the most horrible in the entire journey.

They sat like drenched birds on a twig, listening to what was happening below. And there for
some time a deep silence continued, but soon came a peculiar sound as though of lapping, smacking
of torn-off pieces of flesh, together with the horses' heavy breathing and the groans of the
monsters.

The odor of the raw meat and blood reached up to the tree, as the lions feasted not farther
than twenty paces from the zareba.

And they feasted so long that in the end anger seized Stas. He seized the rifle and fired in
the direction of the sounds.

But he was answered only by a broken, irritated roar, after which resounded the cracking of
bones, rattling in powerful jaws. In the depths glared the blue and red eyes of hyenas and
jackals waiting for their turn.

And thus the long hours of the night passed away.

IV

The sun finally rose and illuminated the jungle, groups of trees, and the forest. The lions
had disappeared before the first ray began to gleam on the horizon. Stas commanded Kali to
build a fire. Mea was ordered to take Nell's clothes out of the leather bag in which they were
packed, to dry them, and to dress anew the little girl as soon as possible; while Stas himself,
taking his rifle, proceeded to visit the camp and at the same time to view the devastation
wrought by the storm and the two midnight assassins.

Immediately beyond the zareba, of which only the pickets remained, lay the first horse almost
half devoured; about a hundred paces farther the second, barely touched, and immediately behind
him the third, disemboweled, and with crushed head. All presented a horrible sight; their eyes
were open, full of settled terror, and their teeth were bared. The ground was trampled upon;
in the depressions were whole puddles of blood. Stas was seized with such rage that at the
moment he almost wished that the shaggy head of a marauder, sluggish after the nocturnal feast,
would emerge from some cluster of trees that he might put a bullet in him. But he had to postpone
his revenge to a later time for at present he had something else to do. It was necessary to
find and capture the remaining horses. The boy assumed that they must have sought shelter in
the forest, and that the same was true of Saba, whose body was nowhere to be seen. The hope
that the faithful companion in misfortune had not fallen a victim to the predaceous beasts
pleased Stas so much that he gained more courage. His happiness was yet augmented by the discovery
of the donkey. It appeared that the sagacious, long-eared creature did not wish to fatigue
himself by a too distant flight. He had ensconced himself outside of the zareba in a corner
formed by the white-ant hillock and the tree and there, having his head and sides protected,
had awaited developments, prepared in an emergency to repel an attack by kicking heroically
with his heels. But the lions, apparently, did not perceive him at all, so when the sun rose
and danger passed away he deemed it proper to lie down and rest after the dramatic sensations
of the night.

Stas, strolling about the camp, finally discovered upon the softened ground the imprint of
horses' hoofs. The tracks led in the direction of the forest and afterwards turned towards
the ravine. This was a favorable circumstance for the capture of the horses in the ravine did
not present any great difficulties. Between ten and twenty paces farther he found in the grass
the fetters which one of the horses had broken in his escape. This one must have run away so
far that for the time being he must be regarded as lost. On the other hand, the two espied
by Stas were behind a low rock, not in the hollow itself, but on the brink. One of them was
rolling about, while the other was cropping the new light-green grass. Both looked unusually
exhausted, as if after a long journey. But the daylight had banished fear from their hearts,
so they greeted Stas with a short, friendly neigh. The horse which was rolling about started
to his feet. The boy observed that this one also had freed himself from his fetters, but fortunately
he apparently preferred to remain with his companion instead of running away wherever his eyes
should lead him.

Stas left both horses near the rock and went to the brink of the ravine to ascertain whether
a farther journey by way of it was feasible. And he saw that owing to the great declivity the
water had flowed away and the bottom was almost dry.

After a while his attention was attracted to a white object entangled in the climbing plants
in the recess of the opposite rocky wall. It appeared that it was the top of the tent which
the wind had carried as far as that and driven into the thicket so that the water could not
carry it away. The tent, at any rate, assured Nell of a better protection than a hut hurriedly
constructed of boughs; so its recovery greatly delighted Stas.

But his joy increased still more when from a lower recess partly hidden by lianas Saba sprang
out, holding in his teeth some kind of animal whose head and tail hung from his jaws. The powerful
dog, in the twinkling of an eye, reached the top, and laid at Stas' feet a striped hyena with
broken back and gnawed foot. After which he began to wag his tail and bark joyfully as if he
wanted to say:

"I admit that I behaved like a coward before the lions, but to tell the truth, you sat perched
on the tree like guinea-fowls. Look, however! I did not waste the night altogether."

And he was so proud of himself that Stas was barely able to induce him to leave the bad-smelling
animal on the spot and not to carry it as a gift to Nell.

When they both returned a good fire was burning in the camp; water was bubbling in the utensils
in which boiled durra grain, two guinea-fowls, and smoked strips of venison. Nell was already
attired in a dry dress but looked so wretched and pale that Stas became alarmed about her,
and, taking her hand to ascertain whether she had a fever, asked:

"Nell, what ails you?"

"Nothing, Stas; only I do want to sleep so much."

"I believe you! After such a night! Thank God, your hands are cool. Ah, what a night it was!
No wonder you want to sleep. I do also. But don't you feel sick?"

"My head aches a little."

Stas placed his palm on her head. Her little head was as cold as her hands; this, however,
only proved great exhaustion and weakness, so the boy sighed and said:

"Eat something warm and immediately afterwards lie down to sleep and you will sleep until the
evening. To-day, at least, the weather is fine and it will not be as it was yesterday."

And Nell glanced at him with fear.

"But we will not pass the night here."

"No, not here, for there lie the gnawed remains of the horses; we will select some other tree,
or will go to the ravine and there will build a zareba such as the world has not seen. You
will sleep as peacefully as in Port Said."

But she folded her little hands and began to beg him with tears that they should ride farther,
as in that horrible place she would not be able to close her eyes and surely would become ill.
And in this way she begged him, in this way she repeated, gazing into his eyes, "What, Stas?
Well?" so that he agreed to everything.

"Then we shall ride by way of the ravine," he said, "for there is shade there. Only promise
me that if you feel weak or sick, you will tell me."

"I am strong enough. Tie me to the saddle and I will sleep easily on the road."

"No. I shall place you on my horse and I shall hold you. Kali and Mea will ride on the other
and the donkey will carry the tent and things."

"Very well! very well!"

"Immediately after breakfast you must take a nap. We cannot start anyway before noon. It is
necessary to catch the horses, to fold the tent, to rearrange the packs. Part of the things
we shall leave here for now we have but two horses altogether. This will require a few hours
and in the meantime you will sleep and refresh yourself. To-day will be hot, but shade will
not be lacking under the tree."

"And you--and Mea and Kali? I am so sorry that I alone shall sleep while you will be tiring
yourselves--"

"On the contrary, we shall have time to nap. Don't worry about me. In Port Said during examination
time I often did not sleep whole nights; of which my father knew nothing. My classmates also
did not sleep. But a man is not a little fly like you. You have no idea how you look to-day--just
like glass. There remain only eyes and tufts of hair; there is no face at all."

He said this jestingly, but in his soul he feared, as by the strong daylight Nell plainly had
a sickly countenance and for the first time he clearly understood that if it continued thus
the poor child not only might, but must, die. At this thought his legs trembled for he suddenly
felt that in case of her death he would not have anything to live for, or a reason for returning
to Port Said.

"For what would I then have to do?" he thought.

For a while he turned away in order that Nell might not observe the grief and fear in his eyes,
and afterwards went to the things deposited under the tree. He threw aside the saddle-cloth
with which the cartridge box was covered, opened it, and began to search for something.

He had hidden there in a small glass bottle the last of the quinine powders and had guarded
it like an "eye in the head" for "the black hour," that is, for the emergency when Nell should
be fever-stricken. But now he was almost certain that after such a night the first attack would
come, so he determined to prevent it. He did this with a heavy heart, thinking of what would
happen later, and were it not that it did not become a man and the leader of a caravan to weep,
he would have burst into tears over this last powder.

So, desiring to conceal his emotion, he assumed a very stern mien and, addressing the little
girl, said:

"Nell, before you eat, take the rest of the quinine."

She, on the other hand, asked:

"But if you catch the fever?"

"Then I will shiver. Take it, I tell you."

She took it without further resistance, for from the time he killed the Sudânese she feared
him a little, notwithstanding all his efforts for her comfort and the kindness he evinced towards
her. Afterwards they sat down to breakfast, and after the fatigue of the night, the hot broth
of guinea-fowl tasted delicious. Nell fell asleep immediately after the refreshment and slept
for several hours. Stas, Kali, and Mea during that time put the caravan in order. They brought
from the ravine the top of the tent, saddled the horses, and put the packages on the donkey
and buried under the roots of the tree those things which they could not take with them. Drowsiness
terribly assailed them at the work, and Stas, from fear that they should fall asleep, permitted
himself and them to take short naps in turn.

It was perhaps two o'clock when they started on their further journey. Stas held Nell before
him; Kali rode with Mea on the other horse. They did not ride at once down the ravine, but
proceeded between its brink and the forest. The young jungle had grown considerably during
the rainy night; the soil under it, however, was black and bore traces of fire. It was easy
to surmise that Smain had passed that way with his division, or that the fire driven from far
by a strong gale had swept over the dry jungle and, finally encountering a damp forest, had
passed on by a not very wide track between it and the ravine. Stas wanted to ascertain whether
traces of Smain's camp or imprints of hoofs could not be found on this track; and with pleasure
he became convinced that nothing resembling them could be seen. Kali, who was well versed in
such matters, claimed positively that the fire must have been borne by the wind and that since
that time at least a fortnight must have elapsed.

"This proves," observed Stas, "that Smain, with his Mahdists, is already the Lord knows where,
and in no case shall we fall into his hands."

Afterwards he and Nell began to gaze curiously at the vegetation, as thus far they had not
ridden so close to a tropical forest. They rode now along its very edge in order to have the
shade over their heads. The soil here was moist and soft, overgrown with dark-green grass,
moss, and ferns. Here and there lay decomposed trunks, covered as though with a carpet of most
beautiful orchids, with flowers brightly colored like butterflies and brightly colored cups
in the center of the crown. Wherever the sun reached, the ground was gilded by other odd orchids,
small and yellow, in which two petals protruding on the sides of a third petal created a resemblance
to the head of a little animal with big ears ending abruptly. In some places the forest was
lined with bushes of wild jasmine draped in garlands with thin, climbing plants, blooming rose-colored.
The shallow hollows and depressions were overgrown with ferns, compressed into one impenetrable
thicket, here low and expansive, there high, entwined with climbing plants, as though distaffs,
reaching up to the first boughs of the trees and spreading under them in delicate green lace.
In the depths there was a great variety of trees; date, raffia, fan-palm, sycamore, bread-fruit,
euphorbia, immense varieties of senna, acacia; trees with foliage dark and glittering and light
or red as blood grew side by side, trunk by trunk, with entangled branches from which shot
yellow and purple flowers resembling candlesticks. In some groups the tree-tops could not be
seen as the climbing plants covered them from top to bottom, and leaping from trunk to trunk
formed the letters W and M and hung in form of festoons, portières, and whole curtains. Caoutchouc
lianas just strangled the trees with thousands of serpentine tendrils and transformed them
into pyramids, buried with white flowers like snow. About the greater lianas the smaller entwined
and the medley became so thick that it formed a wall through which neither man nor animal could
penetrate. Only in places where the elephants, whose strength nothing can resist, forced their
way, were there beaten down in the thicket deep and winding passageways, as it were.

The song of birds which so pleasantly enlivens the European forest could not be heard at all;
instead, on the tree-tops resounded the strangest calls, similar to the sound of a saw, to
the beating of a drum, to the clatter of a stork, to the squeaking of old doors, to the clapping
of hands, to caterwauling, or even to the loud, excited talk of men. From time to time soared
above the trees flocks of parrots, gray, green, white, or a small bevy of gaudily plumaged
toucans in a quiet, wavy flight. On the snowy background of the rubber climbing plants glimmered
like sylvan sprites, little monkey-mourners, entirely black with the exception of white tails,
a white girdle on the sides, and white whiskers enveloping faces of the hue of coal.

The children gazed with admiration at this virgin forest which the eyes of a white man perhaps
had never beheld. Saba every little while plunged into the thicket from which came his happy
barks. The quinine, breakfast, and sleep had revived little Nell. Her face was animated and
assumed bright colors, her eyes sparkled. Every moment she asked Stas the names of various
trees and birds and he answered as well as he could. Finally she announced that she wanted
to dismount from the horse and pluck a bunch of flowers.

But the boy smiled and said:

"The siafu would eat you at once."

"What is a siafu? Is it worse than a lion?"

"Worse and not worse. They are ants which bite terribly. There are a great many of them on
the branches from which they fall on people's backs like a rain of fire. But they also walk
on the ground. Dismount from the horse and try merely to walk a little in the forest and at
once you will begin to jump and whine like a monkey. It is easier to defend one's self against
a lion. At times they move in immense ranks and then everything gives way to them."

"And would you be able to cope with them?"

"I? Of course. With the help of fire or boiling water."

"You always know how to take care of yourself," she said with deep conviction.

These words flattered Stas greatly; so he replied conceitedly and at the same time merrily:

"If you were only well, then as to the rest depend upon me."

"My head does not even ache now."

"Thank God! Thank God!"

Speaking thus they passed the forest, but one flank of which reached the hollow way. The sun
was still high in the heaven and broiled intensely, as the weather cleared and in the sky not
a cloud could be seen. The horses were covered with sweat and Nell began to complain of the
heat. For this reason Stas, having selected a suitable place, turned to the ravine in which
the western wall cast a deep shadow. It was cool there, and the water remaining in the depressions
after the downpour was also comparatively cool. Over the little travelers' heads continually
flew from one brink of the ravine to the other toucans with purple heads, blue breasts and
yellow wings; so the boy began to tell Nell what he knew from books about their habits.

"Do you know," he said, "there are certain toucans which during the breeding season seek hollows
in trees; there the female lays eggs and sits upon them, while the male pastes the opening
with clay so that only her head is visible, and not until the young are hatched does the male
begin to peck with his long beak and free the mother."

"And what does she eat during that time?"

"The male feeds her. He continually flies about and brings her all kind of berries."

"And does he permit her to sleep?" she asked in a sleepy voice. Stas smiled.

"If Mrs. Toucan has the same desire that you have at this moment, then he permits her."

In fact, in the cold ravine an unconquerable drowsiness oppressed the little girl, as from
morning until early in the afternoon she had rested but little. Stas had a sincere desire to
follow her example, but could not as he had to hold her, fearing that she might fall; besides,
it was immensely uncomfortable for him to sit man-fashion on the flat and wide saddle which
Hatim and Seki Tamala had provided for the little one in Fashoda. He did not dare to move and
rode the horse as slowly as possible in order not to awaken her.

She, in the meantime, leaning backwards, supported her little head upon his shoulder and slept
soundly.

But she breathed so regularly and calmly that Stas ceased to regret the last quinine powder.
He felt that danger of fever was removed and commenced to reason thus:

"The ravine continually leads upwards and even now is quite steep. We are higher and the country
is drier and drier. It is necessary only to find some sort of elevation, well shaded, near
some swift stream, and there establish quarters and give the little one a few weeks' rest,
and perhaps wait through the whole massica (the spring rainy season). Not every girl could
endure even one tenth of these hardships, but it is necessary that she should rest! After such
a night another girl would have been stricken with fever and she--how soundly she sleeps!--Thank
God!"

And these thoughts brought him into a good humor; so looking down at Nell's little head resting
on his bosom, he said to himself merrily and at the same time with certain surprise:

"It is odd, however, how fond I am of this little fly! To tell the truth, I always liked her,
but now more and more."

And not knowing how to explain such a strange symptom he came to the following conclusion:

"It is because we have passed together through so much and because she is under my protection."

In the meantime he held that "fly" very carefully with his right hand around her waist in order
that she should not slip from the saddle and bruise her little nose. They advanced slowly in
silence; only Kali hummed under his nose--a song in praise of Stas.

"Great master kills Gebhr, kills a lion and a buffalo! Yah! Yah! Much meat! Much meat! Yah! Yah!"

"Kali," Stas asked in a low tone, "do the Wahimas hunt lions?"

"The Wahimas fear lions but the Wahimas dig pits and if in the night time the lion falls in,
then the Wahimas laugh."

"What do you then do?"

"The Wahimas hurl lot of spears until lion is like a hedgehog. Then they pull him out of the
pit and eat him. Lion is good." And according to his habit, he stroked his stomach.

Stas did not like this method of hunting; so he began to ask what other game there was in the
Wahima country and they conversed further about antelopes, ostriches, giraffes, and rhinoceroses
until the roar of a waterfall reached them.

"What is that?" Stas exclaimed. "Are there a river and waterfall ahead of us?"

Kali nodded his head in sign that obviously such was the fact.

And for some time they rode more quickly, listening to the roar which each moment became more
and more distinct.

"A waterfall!" repeated Stas, whose curiosity was aroused.

But they had barely passed one or two bends when their way was barred by an impassable obstruction.

Nell, whom the motion of the horse had lulled to sleep, awoke at once.

"Are we already stopping for the night?" she asked.

"No, but look! A rock closes the ravine."

"Then what shall we do?"

"It is impossible to slip beside it for it is too close there; so it will be necessary that
we turn back a little, get on top, and ride around the obstruction; but it is yet two hours
to night; therefore we have plenty of time. Let us rest the horses a little. Do you hear the
waterfall?"

"I do."

"We will stop near it for the night."

After which he turned to Kali, ordered him to climb to the brink of the ridge and see whether,
beyond, the ravine was not filled with similar obstructions; he himself began to examine the
rock carefully, and after a while he exclaimed:

"It broke off and tumbled down not long ago. Nell, do you see that fragment? Look how fresh
it is. There is no moss on it, nor vegetation. I already understand, I understand!"

And with his hand he pointed at a baobab tree growing on the brink of the ravine whose huge
roots hung over the wall and were parallel with the fragment.

"That root grew in a crevice between the wall and the rock, and growing stronger, it finally
split the rock. That is a singular matter for stone is harder than wood; I know, however, that
in mountains this often happens. After that anything can shake such a stone which barely keeps
its place, and the stone falls off."

"But what could shake it?"

"It is hard to say. Maybe some former storm, perhaps yesterday's."

At this moment Saba, who previously had remained behind the caravan, came running up; he suddenly
stood still as if pulled from behind by the tail, scented; afterwards squeezed into the narrow
passage between the wall and the detached rock, but immediately began to retreat with bristling
hair.

Stas dismounted from the horse to see what could have scared the dog.

"Stas, don't go there," Nell begged; "a lion might be there."

The boy, who was something of a swashbuckler and who from the previous day had taken extraordinary
offense at lions, replied:

"A great thing. A lion in daylight!"

However, before he approached the passageway, Kali's voice resounded from above:

"Bwana kubwa! Bwana kubwa!"

"What is it?" Stas asked.

The negro slid down the stalk of the climbing plant in the twinkling of an eye. From his face
it was easy to perceive that he brought some important news.

"An elephant!" he shouted.

"An elephant?"

