Certainly, that night, I thought of no one else; and, though her whole conduct and position
seemed suspicious, I could not find it in my heart to entertain a doubt of her integrity. I
could have staked my life that she was clear of blame, and, though all was dark at the present,
that the explanation of the mystery would show her part in these events to be both right and
needful. It was true, let me cudgel my imagination as I pleased, that I could invent no theory
of her relations to Northmour; but I felt none the less sure of my conclusion because it was
founded on instinct in place of reason, and, as I may say, went to sleep that night with the
thought of her under my pillow.

Next day she came out about the same hour alone, and, as soon as the sand-hills concealed her
from the pavilion, drew nearer to the edge, and called me by name in guarded tones. I was astonished
to observe that she was deadly pale, and seemingly under the influence of strong emotion.

"Mr. Cassilis!" she cried; "Mr. Cassilis!"

I appeared at once, and leaped down upon the beach. A remarkable air of relief overspread her
countenance as soon as she saw me.

"Oh!" she cried, with a hoarse sound, like one whose bosom has been lightened of a weight.
And then, "Thank God you are still safe!" she added; "I knew, if you were, you would be here."
(Was not this strange? So swiftly and wisely does Nature prepare our hearts for these great
life-long intimacies, that both my wife and I had been given a presentiment on this the second
day of our acquaintance. I had even then hoped that she would seek me; she had felt sure that
she would find me.) "Do not," she went on swiftly, "do not stay in this place. Promise me that
you will sleep no longer in that wood. You do not know how I suffer; all last night I could
not sleep for thinking of your peril."

"Peril?" I repeated. "Peril from whom? From Northmour?"

"Not so," she said. "Did you think I would tell him after what you said?"

"Not from Northmour?" I repeated. "Then how? From whom? I see none to be afraid of."

"You must not ask me," was her reply, "for I am not free to tell you. Only believe me, and
go hence--believe me, and go away quickly, quickly, for your life!"

An appeal to his alarm is never a good plan to rid oneself of a spirited young man. My obstinacy
was but increased by what she said, and I made it a point of honour to remain. And her solicitude
for my safety still more confirmed me in the resolve.

"You must not think me inquisitive, madam," I replied; "but, if Graden is so dangerous a place,
you yourself perhaps remain here at some risk."

She only looked at me reproachfully.

"You and your father----" I resumed; but she interrupted me almost with a gasp.

"My father! How do you know that?" she cried.

"I saw you together when you landed," was my answer; and I do not know why, but it seemed satisfactory
to both of us, as indeed it was the truth. "But," I continued, "you need have no fear from
me. I see you have some reason to be secret, and, you may believe me, your secret is as safe
with me as if I were in Graden Floe. I have scarce spoken to any one for years; my horse is
my only companion, and even he, poor beast, is not beside me. You see, then, you may count
on me for silence. So tell me the truth, my dear young lady, are you not in danger?"

"Mr. Northmour says you are an honourable man," she returned, "and I believe it when I see
you. I will tell you so much; you are right; we are in dreadful, dreadful danger, and you share
it by remaining where you are."

"Ah!" said I; "you have heard of me from Northmour? And he gives me a good character?"

"I asked him about you last night," was her reply. "I pretended," she hesitated, "I pretended
to have met you long ago, and spoken to you of him. It was not true; but I could not help myself
without betraying you, and you had put me in a difficulty. He praised you highly."

"And--you may permit me one question--does this danger come from Northmour?" I asked.

"From Mr. Northmour?" she cried. "Oh, no; he stays with us to share it."

"While you propose that I should run away?" I said. "You do not rate me very high."

"Why should you stay?" she asked. "You are no friend of ours."

I know not what came over me, for I had not been conscious of a similar weakness since I was
a child, but I was so mortified by this retort that my eyes pricked and filled with tears,
as I continued to gaze upon her face.

"No, no," she said, in a changed voice; "I did not mean the words unkindly."

"It was I who offended," I said; and I held out my hand with a look of appeal that somehow
touched her, for she gave me hers at once, and even eagerly. I held it for a while in mine,
and gazed into her eyes. It was she who first tore her hand away, and, forgetting all about
her request and the promise she had sought to extort, ran at the top of her speed, and without
turning, till she was out of sight. And then I knew that I loved her, and thought in my glad
heart that she--she herself--was not indifferent to my suit. Many a time she has denied it
in after days, but it was with a smiling and not a serious denial. For my part, I am sure our
hands would not have lain so closely in each other if she had not begun to melt to me already.
And, when all is said, it is no great contention, since, by her own avowal, she began to love
me on the morrow.

And yet on the morrow very little took place. She came and called me down as on the day before,
upbraided me for lingering at Graden, and, when she found I was still obdurate, began to ask
me more particularly as to my arrival. I told her by what series of accidents I had come to
witness their disembarkation, and how I had determined to remain, partly from the interest
which had been wakened in me by Northmour's guests, and partly because of his own murderous
attack. As to the former, I fear I was disingenuous, and led her to regard herself as having
been an attraction to me from the first moment that I saw her on the links. It relieves my
heart to make this confession even now, when my wife is with God, and already knows all things,
and the honesty of my purpose even in this; for while she lived, although it often pricked
my conscience, I had never the hardihood to undeceive her. Even a little secret, in such a
married life as ours, is like the rose-leaf which kept the Princess from her sleep.

From this the talk branched into other subjects, and I told her much about my lonely and wandering
existence; she, for her part, giving ear and saying little. Although we spoke very naturally,
and latterly on topics that might seem indifferent, we were both sweetly agitated. Too soon
it was time for her to go; and we separated, as if by mutual consent, without shaking hands,
for both knew that, between us, it was no idle ceremony.

The next, and that was the fourth day of our acquaintance, we met in the same spot, but early
in the morning, with much familiarity and yet much timidity on either side. When she had once
more spoken about my danger--and that, I understood, was her excuse for coming--I, who had
prepared a great deal of talk during the night, began to tell her how highly I valued her kind
interest, and how no one had ever cared to hear about my life, nor had I ever cared to relate
it, before yesterday. Suddenly she interrupted me, saying with vehemence--

"And yet, if you knew who I was, you would not so much as speak to me!"

I told her such a thought was madness, and, little as we had met, I counted her already a dear
friend; but my protestations seemed only to make her more desperate.

"My father is in hiding!" she cried.

"My dear," I said, forgetting for the first time to add "young lady," "what do I care? If he
were in hiding twenty times over, would it make one thought of change in you?"

"Ah, but the cause!" she cried, "the cause! It is----" she faltered for a second--"it is disgraceful
to us." Her name was Clara Huddlestone: it sounded very beautiful in my ears; but not so beautiful
as that other name of Clara Cassilis, which she wore during the longer, and I thank God the
happier, portion of her life. Her father, Bernard Huddlestone, had been a private banker in
a very large way of business. Many years before, his affairs becoming disordered, he had been
led to try dangerous, and at last criminal, expedients to retrieve himself from ruin. All was
in vain; he became more and more cruelly involved, and found his honour lost at the same moment
with his fortune. About this period Northmour had been courting his daughter with great assiduity,
though with small encouragement; and to him, knowing him thus disposed in his favour, Bernard
Huddlestone turned for help in his extremity. It was not merely ruin and dishonour, nor merely
a legal condemnation, that the unhappy man had brought upon his head. It seems he could have
gone to prison with a light heart. What he feared, what kept him awake at night or recalled
him from slumber into frenzy, was some secret, sudden, and unlawful attempt upon his life.
Hence he desired to bury his existence and escape to one of the islands in the South Pacific,
and it was in Northmour's yacht, the Red Earl, that he designed to go. The yacht picked them
up clandestinely upon the coast of Wales, and had once more deposited them at Graden, till
she could be refitted and provisioned for the longer voyage. Nor could Clara doubt that her
hand had been stipulated as the price of passage. For, although Northmour was neither unkind
nor even discourteous, he had shown himself in several instances somewhat over-bold in speech
and manner.

I listened, I need not say, with fixed attention, and put many questions as to the more mysterious
part. It was in vain. She had no clear idea of what the blow was, nor of how it was expected
to fall. Her father's alarm was unfeigned and physically prostrating, and he had thought more
than once of making an unconditional surrender to the police. But the scheme was finally abandoned,
for he was convinced that not even the strength of our English prisons could shelter him from
his pursuers. He had had many affairs with Italy, and with Italians resident in London, in
the later years of his business, and these last, as Clara fancied, were somehow connected with
the doom that threatened him. He had shown great terror at the presence of an Italian seaman
on board the Red Earl, and had bitterly and repeatedly accused Northmour in consequence. The
latter had protested that Beppo (that was the seaman's name) was a capital fellow, and could
be trusted to the death; but Mr. Huddlestone had continued ever since to declare that all was
lost, that it was only a question of days, and that Beppo would be the ruin of him yet.

I regarded the whole story as the hallucination of a mind shaken by calamity. He had suffered
heavy loss by his Italian transactions; and hence the sight of an Italian was hateful to him,
and the principal part in his nightmare would naturally enough be played by one of that nation.

"What your father wants," I said, "is a good doctor and some calming medicine."

"But Mr. Northmour?" objected your mother. "He is untroubled by losses, and yet he shares in
this terror."

I could not help laughing at what I considered her simplicity.

"My dear," said I, "you have told me yourself what reward he has to look for. All is fair in
love, you must remember; and if Northmour foments your father's terrors, it is not at all because
he is afraid of any Italian man, but simply because he is infatuated with a charming English
woman."

She reminded me of his attack upon myself on the night of the disembarkation, and this I was
unable to explain. In short, and from one thing to another, it was agreed between us that I
should set out at once for the fisher village, Graden-Wester, as it is called, look up all
the newspapers I could find, and see for myself if there seemed any basis of fact for these
continued alarms. The next morning, at the same hour and place, I was to make my report to
Clara. She said no more on that occasion about my departure; nor, indeed, did she make it a
secret that she clung to the thought of my proximity as something helpful and pleasant; and,
for my part, I could not have left her, if she had gone upon her knees to ask it.

I reached Graden-Wester before ten in the forenoon; for in those days I was an excellent pedestrian,
and the distance, as I think I have said, was little over seven miles; fine walking all the
way upon the springy turf. The village is one of the bleakest on that coast, which is saying
much: there is a church in a hollow; a miserable haven in the rocks, where many boats have
been lost as they returned from fishing; two or three score of stone houses arranged along
the beach and in two streets, one leading from the harbour, and another striking out from it
at right angles; and, at the corner of these two, a very dark and cheerless tavern, by way
of principal hotel.

I had dressed myself somewhat more suitably to my station in life, and at once called upon
the minister in his little manse beside the graveyard. He knew me, although it was more than
nine years since we had met; and when I told him that I had been long upon a walking tour,
and was behind with the news, readily lent me an armful of newspapers, dating from a month
back to the day before. With these I sought the tavern, and, ordering some breakfast, sat down
to study the "Huddlestone Failure."

It had been, it appeared, a very flagrant case. Thousands of persons were reduced to poverty;
and one in particular had blown out his brains as soon as payment was suspended. It was strange
to myself that, while I read these details, I continued rather to sympathise with Mr. Huddlestone
than with his victims; so complete already was the empire of my love for my wife. A price was
naturally set upon the banker's head; and, as the case was inexcusable and the public indignation
thoroughly aroused, the unusual figure of £750 was offered for his capture. He was reported
to have large sums of money in his possession. One day he had been heard of in Spain; the next,
there was sure intelligence that he was still lurking between Manchester and Liverpool, or
along the border of Wales; and the day after, a telegram would announce his arrival in Cuba
or Yucatan. But in all this there was no word of an Italian, nor any sign of mystery.

In the very last paper, however, there was one item not so clear. The accountants who were
charged to verify the failure had, it seemed, come upon the traces of a very large number of
thousands, which figured for some time in the transactions of the house of Huddlestone; but
which came from nowhere, and disappeared in the same mysterious fashion. It was only once referred
to by name, and then under the initials "X.X."; but it had plainly been floated for the first
time into the business at a period of great depression some six years ago. The name of a distinguished
Royal personage had been mentioned by rumour in connection with this sum. "The cowardly desperado"--such,
I remember, was the editorial expression--was supposed to have escaped with a large part of
this mysterious fund still in his possession.

I was still brooding over the fact, and trying to torture it into some connection with Mr.
Huddlestone's danger, when a man entered the tavern and asked for some bread and cheese with
a decided foreign accent.

"Siete Italiano?" said I.

"Si, signor," was his reply.

I said it was unusually far north to find one of his compatriots; at which he shrugged his
shoulders, and replied that a man would go anywhere to find work. What work he could hope to
find at Graden-Wester, I was totally unable to conceive; and the incident struck so unpleasantly
upon my mind that I asked the landlord, while he was counting me some change, whether he had
ever before seen an Italian in the village. He said he had once seen some Norwegians, who had
been shipwrecked on the other side of Graden Ness and rescued by the lifeboat from Cauldhaven.

"No!" said I; "but an Italian, like the man who had just had bread and cheese."

"What?" cried he, "yon black-avised fellow wi' the teeth? Was he an I-talian? Weel, yon's the
first that ever I saw, an' I daresay he's like to be the last."

Even as he was speaking, I raised my eyes, and, casting a glance into the street, beheld three
men in earnest conversation together, and not thirty yards away. One of them was my recent
companion in the tavern parlour; the other two, by their handsome, sallow features and soft
hats, should evidently belong to the same race. A crowd of village children stood around them,
gesticulating and talking gibberish in imitation. The trio looked singularly foreign to the
bleak dirty street in which they were standing, and the dark grey heaven that overspread them;
and I confess my incredulity received at that moment a shock from which it never recovered.
I might reason with myself as I pleased, but I could not argue down the effect of what I had
seen, and I began to share in the Italian terror.

It was already drawing towards the close of the day before I had returned, the newspapers at
the manse, and got well forward on to the links on my way home. I shall never forget that walk.
It grew very cold and boisterous; the wind sang in the short grass about my feet; thin rain
showers came running on the gusts; and an immense mountain range of clouds began to arise out
of the bosom of the sea. It would be hard to imagine a more dismal evening; and whether it
was from these external influences, or because my nerves were already affected by what I had
heard and seen, my thoughts were as gloomy as the weather.

The upper windows of the pavilion commanded a considerable spread of links in the direction
of Graden-Wester. To avoid observation, it was necessary to hug the beach until I had gained
cover from the higher sand-hills on the little headland, when I might strike across, through
the hollows, for the margin of the wood. The sun was about setting; the tide was low, and all
the quicksands uncovered; and I was moving along, lost in unpleasant thought, when I was suddenly
thunderstruck to perceive the prints of human feet. They ran parallel to my own course, but
low down upon the beach instead of along the border of the turf; and, when I examined them,
I saw at once, by the size and coarseness of the impression, that it was a stranger to me and
to those in the pavilion who had recently passed that way. Not only so; but from the recklessness
of the course which he had followed, steering near to the most formidable portions of the sand,
he was as evidently a stranger to the country and to the ill-repute of Graden beach.

Step by step I followed the prints; until, a quarter of a mile farther, I beheld them die away
into the south-eastern boundary of Graden Floe. There, whoever he was, the miserable man had
perished. One or two gulls, who had, perhaps, seen him disappear, wheeled over his sepulchre
with their usual melancholy piping. The sun had broken through the clouds by a last effort,
and coloured the wide level of quicksands with a dusky purple. I stood for some time gazing
at the spot, chilled and disheartened by my own reflections, and with a strong and commanding
consciousness of death. I remember wondering how long the tragedy had taken, and whether his
screams had been audible at the pavilion. And then, making a strong resolution, I was about
to tear myself away, when a gust fiercer than usual fell upon this quarter of the beach, and
I saw, now whirling high in air, now skimming lightly across the surface of the sands, a soft,
black, felt hat, somewhat conical in shape, such as I had remarked already on the heads of
the Italians.

I believe, but I am not sure, that I uttered a cry. The wind was driving the hat shoreward,
and I ran round the border of the floe to be ready against its arrival. The gust fell, dropping
the hat for a while upon the quicksand, and then, once more freshening, landed it a few yards
from where I stood. I seized it with the interest you may imagine. It had seen some service;
indeed, it was rustier than either of those I had seen that day upon the street. The lining
was red, stamped with the name of the maker, which I have forgotten, and that of the place
of manufacture, Venedig. This (it is not yet forgotten) was the name given by the Austrians
to the beautiful city of Venice, then, and for long after, a part of their dominions.

The shock was complete. I saw imaginary Italians upon every side; and, for the first, and,
I may say, for the last time in my experience, became overpowered by what is called a panic
terror. I knew nothing, that is, to be afraid of, and yet I submit that I was heartily afraid;
and it was with a sensible reluctance that I returned to my exposed and solitary camp in the
Sea-Wood.

There I ate some cold porridge which had been left over from the night before, for I was disinclined
to make a fire; and, feeling strengthened and reassured, dismissed all these fanciful terrors
from my mind, and lay down to sleep with composure.

How long I may have slept it is impossible for me to guess; but I was awakened at last by a
sudden, blinding flash of light into my face. It woke me like a blow. In an instant I was upon
my knees. But the light had gone as suddenly as it came. The darkness was intense. And, as
it was blowing great guns from the sea and pouring with rain, the noises of the storm effectually
concealed all others.

It was, I daresay, half a minute before I regained my self-possession. But for two circumstances,
I should have thought I had been awakened by some new and vivid form of nightmare. First, the
flap of my tent, which I had shut carefully when I retired, was now unfastened; and, second,
I could still perceive, with a sharpness that excluded any theory of hallucination, the smell
of hot metal and of burning oil. The conclusion was obvious. I had been wakened by some one
flashing a bull's-eye lantern in my face. It had been but a flash, and away. He had seen my
face, and then gone. I asked myself the object of so strange a proceeding, and the answer came
pat. The man, whoever he was, had thought to recognise me, and he had not. There was yet another
question unresolved: and to this, I may say, I feared to give an answer; if he had recognised
me, what would he have done?

My fears were immediately diverted from myself, for I saw that I had been visited in a mistake;
and I became persuaded that some dreadful danger threatened the pavilion. It required some
nerve to issue forth into the black and intricate thicket which surrounded and overhung the
den; but I groped my way to the links, drenched with rain, beaten upon and deafened by the
gusts, and fearing at every step to lay my hand upon some lurking adversary. The darkness was
so complete that I might have been surrounded by an army and yet none the wiser, and the uproar
of the gale so loud that my hearing was as useless as my sight.

For the rest of that night, which seemed interminably long, I patrolled the vicinity of the
pavilion, without seeing a living creature or hearing any noise but the concert of the wind,
the sea, and the rain. A light in the upper story filtered through a cranny of the shutter,
and kept me company till the approach of dawn.

CHAPTER V

TELLS OF AN INTERVIEW BETWEEN NORTHMOUR, CLARA, AND MYSELF

With the first peep of day, I retired from the open to my old lair among the sand-hills, there
to await the coming of my wife. The morning was grey, wild, and melancholy; the wind moderated
before sunrise, and then went about, and blew in puffs from the shore; the sea began to go
down, but the rain still fell without mercy. Over all the wilderness of links there was not
a creature to be seen. Yet I felt sure the neighbourhood was alive with skulking foes. The
light had been so suddenly and surprisingly flashed upon my face as I lay sleeping, and the
hat that had been blown ashore by the wind from over Graden Floe, were two speaking signals
of the peril that environed Clara and the party in the pavilion.

It was perhaps half-past seven, or nearer eight, before I saw the door open, and that dear
figure come towards me in the rain. I was waiting for her on the beach before she had crossed
the sand-hills.

"I have had such trouble to come!" she cried. "They did not wish me to go walking in the rain."

"Clara," I said, "you are not frightened!"

"No," said she, with a simplicity that filled my heart with confidence. For my wife was the
bravest as well as the best of women; in my experience I have not found the two go always together,
but with her they did; and she combined the extreme of fortitude with the most endearing and
beautiful virtues.

I told her what had happened; and, though her cheek grew visibly paler, she retained perfect
control over her senses.

"You see now that I am safe," said I, in conclusion. "They do not mean to harm me; for, had
they chosen, I was a dead man last night."

She laid her hand upon my arm.

"And I had no presentiment!" she cried.

Her accent thrilled me with delight. I put my arm about her, and strained her to my side; and
before either of us was aware, her hands were on my shoulders, and my lips upon her mouth.
Yet up to that moment no word of love had passed between us. To this day I remember the touch
of her cheek, which was wet and cold with the rain; and many a time since, when she has been
washing her face, I have kissed it again for the sake of that morning on the beach. Now that
she is taken from me, and I finish my pilgrimage alone, I recall our old loving-kindnesses
and the deep honesty and affection which united us, and my present loss seems but a trifle
in comparison.

We may have thus stood for some seconds--for time passes quickly with lovers--before we were
startled by a peal of laughter close at hand. It was not natural mirth, but seemed to be affected
in order to conceal an angrier feeling. We both turned, though I still kept my left arm about
Clara's waist; nor did she seek to withdraw herself; and there, a few paces off upon the beach,
stood Northmour, his head lowered, his hands behind his back, his nostrils white with passion.

"Ah! Cassilis!" he said, as I disclosed my face.

"That same," said I; for I was not at all put about.

"And so, Miss Huddlestone," he continued slowly but savagely, "this is how you keep your faith
to your father and to me? This is the value you set upon your father's life? And you are so
infatuated with this young gentleman that you must brave ruin, and decency, and common human
caution----"

"Miss Huddlestone----" I was beginning to interrupt him, when he, in his turn, cut in brutally--

"You hold your tongue," said he; "I am speaking to that girl."

"That girl, as you call her, is my wife," said I; and my wife only leaned a little nearer,
so that I knew she had affirmed my words.

"Your what?" he cried. "You lie!"

"Northmour," I said, "we all know you have a bad temper, and I am the last man to be irritated
by words. For all that, I propose that you speak lower, for I am convinced that we are not alone."

He looked round him, and it was plain my remark had in some degree sobered his passion. "What
do you mean?" he asked.

I only said one word: "Italians."

He swore a round oath, and looked at us, from one to the other.

"Mr. Cassilis knows all that I know," said my wife.

"What I want to know," he broke out, "is where the devil Mr. Cassilis comes from, and what
the devil Mr. Cassilis is doing here. You say you are married; that I do not believe. If you
were, Graden Floe would soon divorce you; four minutes and a half, Cassilis. I keep my private
cemetery for my friends."

"It took somewhat longer," said I, "for that Italian."

He looked at me for a moment half-daunted, and then, almost civilly, asked me to tell my story.
"You have too much the advantage of me, Cassilis," he added. I complied, of course; and he
listened, with several ejaculations, while I told him how I had come to Graden: that it was
I whom he had tried to murder on the night of landing; and what I had subsequently seen and
heard of the Italians.

"Well," said he, when I had done, "it is here at last; there is no mistake about that. And
what, may I ask, do you propose to do?"

"I propose to stay with you and lend a hand," said I.

"You are a brave man," he returned, with a peculiar intonation.

"I am not afraid," said I.

"And so," he continued, "I am to understand that you two are married? And you stand up to it
before my face, Miss Huddlestone?"

"We are not yet married," said Clara; "but we shall be as soon as we can."

"Bravo!" cried Northmour. "And the bargain? D--n it, you're not a fool, young woman; I may
call a spade a spade with you. How about the bargain? You know as well as I do what your father's
life depends upon. I have only to put my hands under my coat-tails and walk away, and his throat
would be cut before the evening."

"Yes, Mr. Northmour," returned Clara, with great spirit; "but that is what you will never do.
You made a bargain that was unworthy of a gentleman; but you are gentleman for all that, and
you will never desert a man whom you have begun to help."

"Aha!" said he. "You think I will give my yacht for nothing? You think I will risk my life
and liberty for love of the old gentleman; and then, I suppose, be best-man at the wedding,
to wind up? Well," he added, with an odd smile, "perhaps you are not altogether wrong. But
ask Cassilis here. He knows me. Am I a man to trust? Am I safe and scrupulous? Am I kind?"

"I know you talk a great deal, and sometimes, I think, very foolishly," replied Clara, "but
I know you are a gentleman, and I am not the least afraid."

He looked at her with a peculiar approval and admiration; then, turning to me, "Do you think
I would give her up without a struggle, Frank?" said he. "I tell you plainly, you look out.
The next time we come to blows----"

"Will make the third," I interrupted, smiling.

"Ay, true; so it will," he said. "I had forgotten. Well, the third time's lucky."

"The third time, you mean, you will have the crew of the Red Earl to help," I said.

"Do you hear him?" he asked, turning to my wife.

"I hear two men speaking like cowards," said she. "I should despise myself either to think
or speak like that. And neither of you believe one word that you are saying, which makes it
the more wicked and silly."

"She's a trump!" cried Northmour. "But she's not yet Mrs. Cassilis. I say no more. The present
is not for me."

Then my wife surprised me.

"I leave you here," she said suddenly. "My father has been too long alone. But remember this:
you are to be friends, for you are both good friends to me."

She has since told me her reason for this step. As long as she remained, she declares that
we two should have continued to quarrel; and I suppose that she was right, for when she was
gone we fell at once into a sort of confidentiality.

Northmour stared after her as she went away over the sand-hill.

"She is the only woman in the world!" he exclaimed, with an oath. "Look at her action."

I, for my part, leaped at this opportunity for a little further light.

"See here, Northmour," said I; "we are all in a tight place, are we not?"

"I believe you, my boy," he answered, looking me in the eyes, and with great emphasis. "We
have all hell upon us, that's the truth. You may believe me or not, but I'm afraid of my life."

"Tell me one thing," said I. "What are they after, these Italians? What do they want with Mr.
Huddlestone?"

"Don't you know?" he cried. "The black old scamp had carbonaro funds on a deposit--two hundred
and eighty thousand; and of course he gambled it away on stocks. There was to have been a revolution
in the Tridentino, or Parma; but the revolution is off, and the whole wasps' nest is after
Huddlestone. We shall all be lucky if we can save our skins."

"The carbonari!" I exclaimed; "God help him indeed!"

"Amen!" said Northmour. "And now, look here: I have said that we are in a fix; and, frankly,
I shall be glad of your help. If I can't save Huddlestone, I want at least to save the girl.
Come and stay in the pavilion; and, there's my hand on it, I shall act as your friend until
the old man is either clear or dead. But," he added, "once that is settled, you become my rival
once again, and I warn you--mind yourself."

"Done!" said I; and we shook hands.

"And now let us go directly to the fort," said Northmour; and he began to lead the way through
the rain.

CHAPTER VI

TELLS OF MY INTRODUCTION TO THE TALL MAN

We were admitted to the pavilion by Clara, and I was surprised by the completeness and security
of the defences. A barricade of great strength, and yet easy to displace, supported the door
against any violence from without; and the shutters of the dining-room, into which I was led
directly, and which was feebly illuminated by a lamp, were even more elaborately fortified.
The panels were strengthened by bars and cross-bars; and these, in their turn, were kept in
position by a system of braces and struts, some abutting on the floor, some on the roof, and
others, in fine, against the opposite wall of the apartment. It was at once a solid and well-designed
piece of carpentry; and I did not seek to conceal my admiration.

"I am the engineer," said Northmour. "You remember the planks in the garden? Behold them!"

"I did not know you had so many talents," said I.

"Are you armed?" he continued, pointing to an array of guns and pistols, all in admirable order,
which stood in line against the wall or were displayed upon the sideboard.

"Thank you," I returned; "I have gone armed since our last encounter. But, to tell you the
truth, I have had nothing to eat since early yesterday evening."

Northmour produced some cold meat, to which I eagerly set myself, and a bottle of good Burgundy,
by which, wet as I was, I did not scruple to profit. I have always been an extreme temperance
man on principle; but it is useless to push principle to excess, and on this occasion I believe
that I finished three-quarters of the bottle. As I ate, I still continued to admire the preparations
for defence.

"We could stand a siege," I said at length.

"Ye--es," drawled Northmour; "a very little one, per--haps. It is not so much the strength
of the pavilion I misdoubt; it is the double danger that kills me. If we get to shooting, wild
as the country is, some one is sure to hear it, and then--why, then it's the same thing, only
different, as they say: caged by law, or killed by carbonari. There's the choice. It is a devilish
bad thing to have the law against you in this world, and so I tell the old gentleman upstairs.
He is quite of my way of thinking."

"Speaking of that," said I, "what kind of person is he?"

"Oh, he!" cried the other; "he's a rancid fellow, as far as he goes. I should like to have
his neck wrung to-morrow by all the devils in Italy. I am not in this affair for him. You take
me? I made a bargain for Missy's hand, and I mean to have it too."

"That by the way," said I. "I understand. But how will Mr. Huddlestone take my intrusion?"

"Leave that to Clara," returned Northmour.

I could have struck him in the face for this coarse familiarity; but I respected the truce,
as, I am bound to say, did Northmour, and so long as the danger continued not a cloud arose
in our relation. I bear him this testimony with the most unfeigned satisfaction; nor am I without
pride when I look back upon my own behaviour. For surely no two men were ever left in a position
so invidious and irritating.

As soon as I had done eating, we proceeded to inspect the lower floor. Window by window we
tried the different supports, now and then making an inconsiderable change; and the strokes
of the hammer sounded with startling loudness through the house. I proposed, I remember, to
make loopholes; but he told me they were already made in the windows of the upper story. It
was an anxious business, this inspection, and left me down-hearted. There were two doors and
five windows to protect, and, counting Clara, only four of us to defend them against an unknown
number of foes. I communicated my doubts to Northmour, who assured me, with unmoved composure,
that he entirely shared them.

"Before morning," said he, "we shall all be butchered and buried in Graden Floe. For me, that
is written."

I could not help shuddering at the mention of the quicksand, but reminded Northmour that our
enemies had spared me in the wood.

"Do not flatter yourself," said he. "Then you were not in the same boat with the old gentleman;
now you are. It's the floe for all of us, mark my words."

I trembled for Clara; and just then her dear voice was heard calling us to come upstairs. Northmour
showed me the way, and, when he had reached the landing, knocked at the door of what used to
be called My Uncle's Bedroom, as the founder of the pavilion had designed it especially for
himself.

"Come in, Northmour; come in, dear Mr. Cassilis," said a voice from within.

Pushing open the door, Northmour admitted me before him into the apartment. As I came in I
could see the daughter slipping out by the side-door into the study, which had been prepared
as her bedroom. In the bed, which was drawn back against the wall, instead of standing, as
I had last seen it, boldly across the window, sat Bernard Huddlestone, the defaulting banker.
Little as I had seen of him by the shifting light of the lantern on the links, I had no difficulty
in recognising him for the same. He had a long and sallow countenance, surrounded by a long
red beard and side-whiskers. His broken nose and high cheek-bones gave him somewhat the air
of a Kalmuck, and his light eyes shone with the excitement of a high fever. He wore a skull-cap
of black silk; a huge Bible lay open before him on the bed, with a pair of gold spectacles
in the place, and a pile of other books lay on the stand by his side. The green curtains lent
a cadaverous shade to his cheek; and, as he sat propped on pillows, his great stature was painfully
hunched, and his head protruded till it overhung his knees. I believe if he had not died otherwise,
he must have fallen a victim to consumption in the course of but a very few weeks.

He held out to me a hand, long, thin, and disagreeably hairy.

"Come in, come in, Mr. Cassilis," said he. "Another protector--ahem!--another protector. Always
welcome as a friend of my daughter's, Mr. Cassilis. How they have rallied about me, my daughter's
friends! May God in Heaven bless and reward them for it!"

I gave him my hand, of course, because I could not help it; but the sympathy I had been prepared
to feel for Clara's father was immediately soured by his appearance, and the wheedling, unreal
tones in which he spoke.

"Cassilis is a good man," said Northmour; "worth ten."

"So I hear," cried Mr. Huddlestone eagerly; "so my girl tells me. Ah, Mr. Cassilis, my sin
has found me out, you see! I am very low, very low; but I hope equally penitent. We must all
come to the throne of grace at last, Mr. Cassilis. For my part, I come late indeed; but with
unfeigned humility, I trust."

"Fiddle-de-dee!" said Northmour roughly.

"No, no, dear Northmour!" cried the banker. "You must not say that; you must not try to shake
me. You forget, my dear, good boy, you forget I may be called this very night before my Maker."

His excitement was pitiful to behold; and I felt myself grow indignant with Northmour, whose
infidel opinions I well knew, and heartily derided, as he continued to taunt the poor sinner
out of his humour of repentance.

"Pooh, my dear Huddlestone!" said he. "You do yourself injustice. You are a man of the world,
inside and out, and were up to all kinds of mischief before I was born. Your conscience is
tanned like South American leather--only you forgot to tan your liver, and that, if you will
believe me, is the seat of the annoyance."

"Rogue, rogue! bad boy!" said Mr. Huddlestone, shaking his finger, "I am no precisian, if you
come to that; I always hated a precisian; but I never lost hold of something better through
it all. I have been a bad boy, Mr. Cassilis; I do not seek to deny that; but it was after my
wife's death, and you know, with a widower, it's a different thing: sinful--I won't say no;
but there is a gradation, we shall hope. And talking of that---- Hark!" he broke out suddenly,
his hand raised, his fingers spread, his face racked with interest and terror. "Only the rain,
bless God!" he added, after a pause, and with indescribable relief.

For some seconds he lay back among the pillows like a man near to fainting; then he gathered
himself together, and, in somewhat tremulous tones, began once more to thank me for the share
I was prepared to take in his defence.

"One question, sir," said I, when he had paused. "Is it true that you have money with you?"

He seemed annoyed by the question, but admitted with reluctance that he had a little.

"Well," I continued, "it is their money they are after, is it not? Why not give it up to them?"

"Ah!" replied he, shaking his head, "I have tried that already, Mr. Cassilis; and alas that
it should be so! but it is blood they want."

"Huddlestone, that's a little less than fair," said Northmour. "You should mention that what
you offered them was upwards of two hundred thousand short. The deficit is worth a reference;
it is for what they call a cool sum, Frank. Then, you see, the fellows reason in their clear
Italian way; and it seems to them, as indeed it seems to me, that they may just as well have
both while they're about it--money and blood together, by George, and no more trouble for the
extra pleasure."

"Is it in the pavilion?" I asked.

"It is; and I wish it were in the bottom of the sea instead," said Northmour; and then suddenly--"What
are you making faces at me for?" he cried to Mr. Huddlestone, on whom I had unconsciously turned
my back. "Do you think Cassilis would sell you?"

Mr. Huddlestone protested that nothing had been further from his mind.

"It is a good thing," retorted Northmour in his ugliest manner. "You might end by wearying
us.--What were you going to say?" he added, turning to me.

"I was going to propose an occupation for the afternoon," said I. "Let us carry that money
out, piece by piece, and lay it down before the pavilion door. If the carbonari come, why,
it's theirs at any rate."

"No, no," cried Mr. Huddlestone; "it does not, it cannot belong to them! It should be distributed
pro rata among all my creditors."

"Come now, Huddlestone," said Northmour, "none of that."

"Well, but my daughter," moaned the wretched man.

"Your daughter will do well enough. Here are two suitors, Cassilis and I, neither of us beggars,
between whom she has to choose. And as for yourself, to make an end of arguments, you have
no right to a farthing, and, unless I'm much mistaken, you are going to die."

It was certainly very cruelly said; but Mr. Huddlestone was a man who attracted little sympathy;
and, although I saw him wince and shudder, I mentally endorsed the rebuke; nay, I added a contribution
of my own.

"Northmour and I," I said, "are willing enough to help you to save your life, but not to escape
with stolen property."

He struggled for a while with himself, as though he were on the point of giving way to anger,
but prudence had the best of the controversy.

"My dear boys," he said, "do with me or my money what you will. I leave all in your hands.
Let me compose myself."

And so we left him, gladly enough I am sure. The last that I saw, he had once more taken up
his great Bible, and with tremulous hands was adjusting his spectacles to read.

CHAPTER VII

TELLS HOW A WORD WAS CRIED THROUGH THE PAVILION WINDOW

The recollection of that afternoon will always be graven on my mind. Northmour and I were persuaded
that an attack was imminent; and if it had been in our power to alter in any way the order
of events, that power would have been used to precipitate rather than delay the critical moment.
The worst was to be anticipated; yet we could conceive no extremity so miserable as the suspense
we were now suffering. I have never been an eager, though always a great, reader; but I never
knew books so insipid as those which I took up and cast aside that afternoon in the pavilion.
Even talk became impossible as the hours went on. One or other was always listening for some
sound, or peering from an upstairs window over the links. And yet not a sign indicated the
presence of our foes.

We debated over and over again my proposal with regard to the money; and had we been in complete
possession of our faculties, I am sure we should have condemned it as unwise; but we were flustered
with alarm, grasped at a straw, and determined, although it was as much as advertising Mr.
Huddlestone's presence in the pavilion, to carry my proposal into effect.

The sum was part in specie, part in bank paper, and part in circular notes payable to the name
of James Gregory. We took it out, counted it, enclosed it once more in a despatch-box belonging
to Northmour, and prepared a letter in Italian which he tied to the handle. It was signed by
both of us under oath, and declared that this was all the money which had escaped the failure
of the house of Huddlestone. This was, perhaps, the maddest action ever perpetrated by two
persons professing to be sane. Had the despatch-box fallen into other hands than those for
which it was intended, we stood criminally convicted on our own written testimony; but as I
have said, we were neither of us in a condition to judge soberly, and had a thirst for action
that drove us to do something, right or wrong, rather than endure the agony of waiting. Moreover,
as we were both convinced that the hollows of the links were alive with hidden spies upon our
movements, we hoped that our appearance with the box might lead to a parley, and perhaps a
compromise.

It was nearly three when we issued from the pavilion. The rain had taken off; the sun shone
quite cheerfully. I have never seen the gulls fly so close about the house or approach so fearlessly
to human beings. On the very doorstep one flapped heavily past our heads, and uttered its wild
cry in my very ear.

"There is an omen for you," said Northmour, who, like all freethinkers, was much under the
influence of superstition. "They think we are already dead."

I made some light rejoinder, but it was with half my heart; for the circumstance had impressed me.

A yard or two before the gate, on a patch of smooth turf, we set down the despatch-box; and
Northmour waved a white handkerchief over his head. Nothing replied. We raised our voices,
and cried aloud in Italian that we were there as ambassadors to arrange the quarrel; but the
stillness remained unbroken save by the sea-gulls and the surf. I had a weight at my heart
when we desisted; and I saw that even Northmour was unusually pale. He looked over his shoulder
nervously, as though he feared that some one had crept between him and the pavilion door.

"By God," he said in a whisper, "this is too much for me!"

I replied in the same key: "Suppose there should be none, after all?"

"Look there," he returned, nodding with his head, as though he had been afraid to point.

I glanced in the direction indicated; and there, from the northern quarter of the Sea-Wood,
beheld a thin column of smoke rising steadily against the now cloudless sky.

"Northmour," I said (we still continued to talk in whispers), "it is not possible to endure
this suspense. I prefer death fifty times over. Stay you here to watch the pavilion; I will
go forward and make sure, if I have to walk right into their camp."

He looked once again all round him with puckered eyes, and then nodded assentingly to my proposal.

My heart beat like a sledge-hammer as I set out walking rapidly in the direction of the smoke;
and, though up to that moment I had felt chill and shivering, I was suddenly conscious of a
glow of heat over all my body. The ground in this direction was very uneven; a hundred men
might have lain hidden in as many square yards about my path. But I had not practised the business
in vain, chose such routes as cut at the very root of concealment, and, by keeping along the
most convenient ridges, commanded several hollows at a time. It was not long before I was rewarded
for my caution. Coming suddenly on to a mound somewhat more elevated than the surrounding hummocks,
I saw, not thirty yards away, a man bent almost double, and running as fast as his attitude
permitted along the bottom of a gully. I had dislodged one of the spies from his ambush. As
soon as I sighted him, I called loudly both in English and Italian; and he, seeing concealment
was no longer possible, straightened himself out, leaped from the gully, and made off as straight
as an arrow for the borders of the wood.

It was none of my business to pursue; I had learned what I wanted--that we were beleaguered
and watched in the pavilion; and I returned at once, and walking as nearly as possible in my
old footsteps, to where Northmour awaited me beside the despatch-box. He was even paler than
when I had left him, and his voice shook a little.

"Could you see what he was like?" he asked.

"He kept his back turned," I replied.

"Let us get into the house, Frank. I don't think I'm a coward, but I can stand no more of this,"
he whispered.

All was still and sunshiny about the pavilion as we turned to re-enter it; even the gulls had
flown in a wider circuit, and were seen flickering along the beach and sand-hills; and this
loneliness terrified me more than a regiment under arms. It was not until the door was barricaded
that I could draw a full inspiration and relieve the weight that lay upon my bosom. Northmour
and I exchanged a steady glance; and I suppose each made his own reflections on the white and
startled aspect of the other.

"You were right," I said. "All is over. Shake hands, old man, for the last time."

"Yes," replied he, "I will shake hands; for, as sure as I am here, I bear no malice. But remember,
if, by some impossible accident, we should give the slip to these blackguards, I'll take the
upper hand of you by fair or foul."

"Oh," said I, "you weary me."

He seemed hurt, and walked away in silence to the foot of the stairs, where he paused.

"You do not understand," said he. "I am not a swindler, and I guard myself; that is all. It
may weary you or not, Mr. Cassilis, I do not care a rush; I speak for my own satisfaction,
and not for your amusement. You had better go upstairs and court the girl; for my part, I stay
here."

"And I stay with you," I returned. "Do you think I would steal a march, even with your permission?"

"Frank," he said, smiling, "it's a pity you are an ass, for you have the makings of a man.
I think I must be fey to-day; you cannot irritate me even when you try. Do you know," he continued
softly, "I think we are the two most miserable men in England, you and I? we have got on to
thirty without wife or child, or so much as a shop to look after--poor, pitiful, lost devils,
both! And now we clash about a girl! As if there were not several millions in the United Kingdom!
Ah, Frank, Frank, the one who loses this throw, be it you or me, he has my pity! It were better
for him--how does the Bible say?--that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he were cast
into the depth of the sea. Let us take a drink," he concluded suddenly, but without any levity
of tone.

I was touched by his words and consented. He sat down on the table in the dining-room, and
held up the glass of sherry to his eye.

"If you beat me, Frank," he said, "I shall take to drink. What will you do, if it goes the
other way?"

"God knows," I returned.

"Well," said he, "here is a toast in the meantime: 'Italia irredenta!'"

The remainder of the day was passed in the same dreadful tedium and suspense. I laid the table
for dinner, while Northmour and Clara prepared the meal together in the kitchen. I could hear
their talk as I went to and fro, and was surprised to find it ran all the time upon myself.
Northmour again bracketed us together, and rallied Clara on a choice of husbands; but he continued
to speak of me with some feeling, and uttered nothing to my prejudice unless he included himself
in the condemnation. This awakened a sense of gratitude in my heart, which combined with the
immediateness of our peril to fill my eye with tears. After all, I thought--and perhaps the
thought was laughably vain--we were here three very noble human beings to perish in defence
of a thieving banker.

Before we sat down to table I looked forth from an upstairs window. The day was beginning to
decline; the links were utterly deserted; the despatch-box still lay untouched where we had
left it hours before.

Mr. Huddlestone, in a long yellow dressing-gown, took one end of the table, Clara the other;
while Northmour and I faced each other from the sides. The lamp was brightly trimmed; the wine
was good; the viands, although mostly cold, excellent of their sort. We seemed to have agreed
tacitly; all reference to the impending catastrophe was carefully avoided; and, considering
our tragic circumstances, we made a merrier party than could have been expected. From time
to time, it is true, Northmour or I would rise from table and make a round of the defences;
and, on each of these occasions, Mr. Huddlestone was recalled to a sense of his tragic predicament,
glanced up with ghastly eyes, and bore for an instant on his countenance the stamp of terror.
But he hastened to empty his glass, wiped his forehead with his handkerchief, and joined again
in the conversation.

I was astonished at the wit and information he displayed. Mr. Huddlestone's was certainly no
ordinary character; he had read and observed for himself; his gifts were sound; and, though
I could never have learned to love the man, I began to understand his success in business,
and the great respect in which he had been held before his failure. He had, above all, the
talent of society; and though I never heard him speak but on this one and most unfavourable
occasion, I set him down among the most brilliant conversationalists I ever met.

He was relating with great gusto, and seemingly no feeling of shame, the manoeuvres of a scoundrelly
commission merchant whom he had known and studied in his youth, and we were all listening with
an odd mixture of mirth and embarrassment, when our little party was brought abruptly to an
end in the most startling manner.

A noise like that of a wet finger on the window-pane interrupted Mr. Huddlestone's tale; and
in an instant we were all four as white as paper, and sat tongue-tied and motionless round
the table.

"A snail," I said at last; for I had heard that these animals make a noise somewhat similar
in character.

"Snail be d--d!" said Northmour. "Hush!"

The same sound was repeated twice at regular intervals; and then a formidable voice shouted
through the shutters the Italian word "Traditore!"

Mr. Huddlestone threw his head in the air; his eyelids quivered; next moment he fell insensible
below the table. Northmour and I had each run to the armoury and seized a gun. Clara was on
her feet with her hand at her throat.

So we stood waiting, for we thought the hour of attack was certainly come; but second passed
after second, and all but the surf remained silent in the neighbourhood of the pavilion.

"Quick," said Northmour; "upstairs with him before they come."

CHAPTER VIII

TELLS THE LAST OF THE TALL MAN

Somehow or other, by hook and crook, and between the three of us, we got Bernard Huddlestone
bundled upstairs and laid upon the bed in My Uncle's Room. During the whole process, which
was rough enough, he gave no sign of consciousness, and he remained, as we had thrown him,
without changing the position of a finger. His daughter opened his shirt and began to wet his
head and bosom; while Northmour and I ran to the window. The weather continued clear; the moon,
which was now about full, had risen and shed a very clear light upon the links; yet, strain
our eyes as we might, we could distinguish nothing moving. A few dark spots, more or less,
on the uneven expanse, were not to be identified; they might be crouching men, they might be
shadows; it was impossible to be sure.

"Thank God," said Northmour, "Aggie is not coming to-night."

Aggie was the name of the old nurse; he had not thought of her till now; but that he should
think of her at all was a trait that surprised me in the man.

We were again reduced to waiting. Northmour went to the fireplace and spread his hands before
the red embers, as if he were cold. I followed him mechanically with my eyes, and in so doing
turned my back upon the window. At that moment a very faint report was audible from without,
and a ball shivered a pane of glass, and buried itself in the shutter two inches from my head.
I heard Clara scream; and though I whipped instantly out of range and into a corner, she was
there, so to speak, before me, beseeching to know if I were hurt. I felt that I could stand
to be shot at every day and all day long, with such marks of solicitude for a reward; and I
continued to reassure her, with the tenderest caresses and in complete forgetfulness of our
situation, till the voice of Northmour recalled me to myself.

"An air-gun," he said. "They wish to make no noise."

I put Clara aside, and looked at him. He was standing with his back to the fire and his hands
clasped behind him; and I knew by the black look on his face that passion was boiling within.
I had seen just such a look before he attacked me, that March night, in the adjoining chamber;
and, though I could make every allowance for his anger, I confess I trembled for the consequences.
He gazed straight before him; but he could see us with the tail of his eye, and his temper
kept rising like a gale of wind. With regular battle awaiting us outside, this prospect of
an internecine strife within the walls began to daunt me.

Suddenly, as I was thus closely watching his expression and prepared against the worst, I saw
a change, a flash, a look of relief, upon his face. He took up the lamp which stood beside
him on the table, and turned to us with an air of some excitement.

"There is one point that we must know," said he. "Are they going to butcher the lot of us,
or only Huddlestone? Did they take you for him, or fire at you for your own beaux yeux?"

"They took me for him, for certain," I replied. "I am near as tall, and my head is fair."

"I am going to make sure," returned Northmour; and he stepped up to the window, holding the
lamp above his head, and stood there, quietly affronting death, for half a minute.

Clara sought to rush forward and pull him from the place of danger; but I had the pardonable
selfishness to hold her back by force.

"Yes," said Northmour, turning coolly from the window; "it's only Huddlestone they want."

"Oh, Mr. Northmour!" cried Clara; but found no more to add; the temerity she had just witnessed
seeming beyond the reach of words.

He, on his part, looked at me, cocking his head, with a fire of triumph in his eyes; and I
understood at once that he had thus hazarded his life, merely to attract Clara's notice, and
depose me from my position as the hero of the hour. He snapped his fingers.

"The fire is only beginning," said he. "When they warm up to their work they won't be so particular."

A voice was now heard hailing us from the entrance. From the window we could see the figure
of a man in the moonlight; he stood motionless, his face uplifted to ours, and a rag of something
white on his extended arm; and as we looked right down upon him, though he was a good many
yards distant on the links, we could see the moonlight glitter on his eyes.

He opened his lips again, and spoke for some minutes on end, in a key so loud that he might
have been heard in every corner of the pavilion, and as far away as the borders of the wood.
It was the same voice that had already shouted "Traditore!" through the shutters of the dining-room;
this time it made a complete and clear statement. If the traitor "Oddlestone" were given up,
all others should be spared; if not, no one should escape to tell the tale.

"Well, Huddlestone, what do you say to that?" asked Northmour, turning to the bed.

Up to that moment the banker had given no sign of life, and I, at least, had supposed him to
be still lying in a faint; but he replied at once, and in such tones as I have never heard
elsewhere, save from a delirious patient, adjured and besought us not to desert him. It was
the most hideous and abject performance that my imagination can conceive.

"Enough," cried Northmour; and then he threw open the window, leaned out into the night, and
in a tone of exultation, and with a total forgetfulness of what was due to the presence of
a lady, poured out upon the ambassador a string of the most abominable raillery both in English
and Italian, and bade him be gone where he had come from. I believe that nothing so delighted
Northmour at that moment as the thought that we must all infallibly perish before the night
was out.

Meantime the Italian put his flag of truce into his pocket, and disappeared, at a leisurely
pace, among the sand-hills.

"They make honourable war," said Northmour. "They are all gentlemen and soldiers. For the credit
of the thing, I wish we could change sides--you and I, Frank, and you too, Missy my darling--and
leave that being on the bed to some one else. Tut! Don't look shocked! We are all going post
to what they call eternity, and may as well be above-board while there's time. As far as I'm
concerned, if I could first strangle Huddlestone and then get Clara in my arms, I could die
with some pride and satisfaction. And as it is, by God, I'll have a kiss!"

Before I could do anything to interfere, he had rudely embraced and repeatedly kissed the resisting
girl. Next moment I had pulled him away with fury, and flung him heavily against the wall.
He laughed loud and long, and I feared his wits had given way under the strain; for even in
the best of days he had been a sparing and a quiet laugher.

"Now, Frank," said he, when his mirth was somewhat appeased, "it's your turn. Here's my hand.
Good-bye; farewell!" Then, seeing me stand rigid and indignant, and holding Clara to my side--"Man!"
he broke out, "are you angry? Did you think we were going to die with all the airs and graces
of society? I took a kiss; I'm glad I had it; and now you can take another if you like, and
square accounts."

I turned from him with a feeling of contempt which I did not seek to dissemble.

"As you please," said he. "You've been a prig in life; a prig you'll die."

And with that he sat down on a chair, a rifle over his knee, and amused himself with snapping
the lock; but I could see that his ebullition of light spirits (the only one I ever knew him
to display) had already come to an end, and was succeeded by a sullen, scowling humour.

All this time our assailants might have been entering the house, and we been none the wiser;
we had in truth almost forgotten the danger that so imminently overhung our days. But just
then Mr. Huddlestone uttered a cry, and leaped from the bed.

I asked him what was wrong.

"Fire!" he cried. "They have set the house on fire!"

Northmour was on his feet in an instant, and he and I ran through the door of communication
with the study. The room was illuminated by a red and angry light. Almost at the moment of
our entrance, a tower of flame arose in front of the window, and, with a tingling report, a
pane fell inwards on the carpet. They had set fire to the lean-to outhouse, where Northmour
used to nurse his negatives.

"Hot work," said Northmour. "Let us try in your old room."

We ran thither in a breath, threw up the casement, and looked forth. Along the whole back wall
of the pavilion piles of fuel had been arranged and kindled; and it is probable they had been
drenched with mineral oil, for, in spite of the morning's rain, they all burned bravely. The
fire had taken a firm hold already on the outhouse, which blazed higher and higher every moment;
the back-door was in the centre of a red-hot bonfire; the eaves, we could see, as we looked
upward, were already smouldering, for the roof overhung, and was supported by considerable
beams of wood. At the same time, hot, pungent, and choking volumes of smoke began to fill the
house. There was not a human being to be seen to right or left.

"Ah, well!" said Northmour, "here's the end, thank God."

And we returned to My Uncle's Room. Mr. Huddlestone was putting on his boots, still violently
trembling, but with an air of determination such as I had not hitherto observed. Clara stood
close by him, with her cloak in both hands ready to throw about her shoulders, and a strange
look in her eyes, as if she were half-hopeful, half-doubtful of her father.

"Well, boys and girls," said Northmour, "how about a sally? The oven is heating; it is not
good to stay here and be baked; and, for my part, I want to come to my hands with them, and
be done."

"There is nothing else left," I replied.

And both Clara and Mr. Huddlestone, though with a very different intonation, added, "Nothing."

As we went downstairs the heat was excessive, and the roaring of the fire filled our ears;
and we had scarce reached the passage before the stairs window fell in, a branch of flame shot
brandishing through the aperture, and the interior of the pavilion became lit up with that
dreadful and fluctuating glare. At the same moment we heard the fall of something heavy and
inelastic in the upper story. The whole pavilion, it was plain, had gone alight like a box
of matches, and now not only flamed sky-high to land and sea, but threatened with every moment
to crumble and fall in about our ears.

Northmour and I cocked our revolvers. Mr. Huddlestone, who had already refused a firearm, put
us behind him with a manner of command.

"Let Clara open the door," said he. "So, if they fire a volley, she will be protected. And
in the meantime stand behind me. I am the scapegoat; my sins have found me out."

I heard him, as I stood breathless by his shoulder, with my pistol ready, pattering off prayers
in a tremulous, rapid whisper; and I confess, horrid as the thought may seem, I despised him
for thinking of supplications in a moment so critical and thrilling. In the meantime, Clara,
who was dead white, but still possessed her faculties, had displaced the barricade from the
front door. Another moment, and she had pulled it open. Firelight and moonlight illuminated
the links with confused and changeful lustre, and far away against the sky we could see a long
trail of glowing smoke.

Mr. Huddlestone, filled for the moment with a strength greater than his own, struck Northmour
and myself a back-hander in the chest; and while we were thus for the moment incapacitated
from action, lifting his arms above his head like one about to dive, he ran straight forward
out of the pavilion.

"Here am I!" he cried--"Huddlestone! Kill me, and spare the others!"

His sudden appearance daunted, I suppose, our hidden enemies; for Northmour and I had time
to recover, to seize Clara between us, one by each arm, and to rush forth to his assistance,
ere anything further had taken place. But scarce had we passed the threshold when there came
near a dozen reports and flashes from every direction among the hollows of the links. Mr. Huddlestone
staggered, uttered a weird and freezing cry, threw up his arms over his head, and fell backward
on the turf.

"Traditore! Traditore!" cried the invisible avengers.

And just then a part of the roof of the pavilion fell in, so rapid was the progress of the
fire. A loud, vague, and horrible noise accompanied the collapse, and a vast volume of flame
went soaring up to heaven. It must have been visible at that moment from twenty miles out at
sea, from the shore at Graden-Wester, and far inland from the peak of Graystiel, the most eastern
summit of the Caulder Hills. Bernard Huddlestone, although God knows what were his obsequies,
had a fine pyre at the moment of his death.

CHAPTER IX

TELLS HOW NORTHMOUR CARRIED OUT HIS THREAT

I should have the greatest difficulty to tell you what followed next after this tragic circumstance.
It is all to me, as I look back upon it, mixed, strenuous, and ineffectual, like the struggles
of a sleeper in a nightmare. Clara, I remember, uttered a broken sigh and would have fallen
forward to earth, had not Northmour and I supported her insensible body. I do not think we
were attacked; I do not remember even to have seen an assailant; and I believe we deserted
Mr. Huddlestone without a glance. I only remember running like a man in a panic, now carrying
Clara altogether in my own arms, now sharing her weight with Northmour, now scuffling confusedly
for the possession of that dear burden. Why we should have made for my camp in the Hemlock
Den, or how we reached it, are points lost for ever to my recollection. The first moment at
which I became definitely sure, Clara had been suffered to fall against the outside of my little
tent, Northmour and I were tumbling together on the ground, and he, with contained ferocity,
was striking for my head with the butt of his revolver. He had already twice wounded me on
the scalp; and it is to the subsequent loss of blood that I am tempted to attribute the sudden
clearness of my mind.

I caught him by the wrist.

"Northmour," I remember saying, "you can kill me afterwards. Let us first attend to Clara."

He was at that moment uppermost. Scarcely had the words passed my lips, when he had leaped
to his feet and ran towards the tent; and the next moment he was straining Clara to his heart
and covering her unconscious hands and face with his caresses.

"Shame!" I cried. "Shame to you, Northmour!"

And, giddy though I still was, I struck him repeatedly upon the head and shoulders.

He relinquished his grasp, and faced me in the broken moonlight.

"I had you under, and I let you go," said he; "and now you strike me! Coward!"

"You are the coward," I retorted. "Did she wish your kisses while she was still sensible of
what she wanted? Not she! And now she may be dying; and you waste this precious time, and abuse
her helplessness. Stand aside, and let me help her."

He confronted me for a moment, white and menacing; then suddenly he stepped aside.

"Help her, then," said he.

I threw myself on my knees beside her, and loosened, as well as I was able, her dress and corset;
but while I was thus engaged, a grasp descended on my shoulder.

"Keep your hands off her," said Northmour fiercely. "Do you think I have no blood in my veins?"

"Northmour," I cried, "if you will neither help her yourself, nor let me do so, do you know
that I shall have to kill you?"

"That is better!" he cried. "Let her die also--where's the harm? Step aside from that girl,
and stand up to fight!"

"You will observe," said I, half-rising, "that I have not kissed her yet."

"I dare you to," he cried.

I do not know what possessed me; it was one of the things I am most ashamed of in my life,
though, as my wife used to say, I knew that my kisses would be always welcome were she dead
or living; down I fell again upon my knees, parted the hair from her forehead, and, with the
dearest respect, laid my lips for a moment on that cold brow. It was such a caress as a father
might have given; it was such a one as was not unbecoming from a man soon to die to a woman
already dead.

"And now," said I, "I am at your service, Mr Northmour."

But I saw, to my surprise, that he had turned his back upon me.

"Do you hear?" I asked.

"Yes," said he, "I do. If you wish to fight, I am ready. If not, go on and save Clara. All
is one to me."

I did not wait to be twice bidden; but, stooping again over Clara, continued my efforts to
revive her. She still lay white and lifeless; I began to fear that her sweet spirit had indeed
fled beyond recall, and horror and a sense of utter desolation seized upon my heart. I called
her by name with the most endearing inflections; I chafed and beat her hands; now I laid her
head low, now supported it against my knee; but all seemed to be in vain, and the lids still
lay heavy on her eyes.

"Northmour," I said, "there is my hat. For God's sake bring some water from the spring."

Almost in a moment he was by my side with the water.

"I have brought it in my own," he said. "You do not grudge me the privilege?"

"Northmour," I was beginning to say, as I laved her head and breast; but he interrupted me
savagely.

"Oh, you hush up!" he said. "The best thing you can do is to say nothing."

I had certainly no desire to talk, my mind being swallowed up in concern for my dear love and
her condition; so I continued in silence to do my best towards her recovery, and, when the
hat was empty, returned it to him with one word--"More." He had, perhaps, gone several times
upon this errand, when Clara reopened her eyes.

"Now," said he, "since she is better, you can spare me, can you not? I wish you a good-night,
Mr. Cassilis."

And with that he was gone among the thicket. I made a fire, for I had now no fear of the Italians,
who had even spared all the little possessions left in my encampment; and, broken as she was
by the excitement and the hideous catastrophe of the evening, I managed, in one way or another--by
persuasion, encouragement, warmth, and such simple remedies as I could lay my hand on--to bring
her back to some composure of mind and strength of body.

Day had already come, when a sharp "Hist!" sounded from the thicket. I started from the ground;
but the voice of Northmour was heard adding, in the most tranquil tones: "Come here, Cassilis,
and alone; I want to show you something."

I consulted Clara with my eyes, and, receiving her tacit permission, left her alone, and clambered
out of the den. At some distance off I saw Northmour leaning against an elder; and, as soon
as he perceived me, he began walking seaward. I had almost overtaken him as he reached the
outskirts of the wood.

"Look," said he, pausing.

A couple of steps more brought me out of the foliage. The light of the morning lay cold and
clear over that well-known scene. The pavilion was but a blackened wreck; the roof had fallen
in, one of the gables had fallen out; and, far and near, the face of the links was cicatrised
with little patches of burnt furze. Thick smoke still went straight upwards in the windless
air of the morning, and a great pile of ardent cinders filled the bare walls of the house,
like coals in an open grate. Close by the islet a schooner yacht lay-to, and a well-manned
boat was pulling vigorously for the shore.

"The Red Earl!" I cried. "The Red Earl twelve hours too late!"

"Feel in your pocket, Frank. Are you armed?" asked Northmour.

I obeyed him, and I think I must have become deadly pale. My revolver had been taken from me.

"You see I have you in my power," he continued. "I disarmed you last night while you were nursing
Clara; but this morning--here--take your pistol. No thanks!" he cried, holding up his hand.
"I do not like them; that is the only way you can annoy me now."

He began to walk forward across the links to meet the boat, and I followed a step or two behind.
In front of the pavilion I paused to see where Mr. Huddlestone had fallen; but there was no
sign of him, nor so much as a trace of blood.

"Graden Floe," said Northmour.

He continued to advance till we had come to the head of the beach.

"No farther, please," said he. "Would you like to take her to Graden House?"

"Thank you," I replied; "I shall try to get her to the minister's at Graden-Wester."

The prow of the boat here grated on the beach, and a sailor jumped ashore with a line in his hand.

"Wait a minute, lads!" cried Northmour; and then lower and to my private ear: "You had better
say nothing of all this to her," he added.

"On the contrary!" I broke out, "she shall know everything that I can tell."

"You do not understand," he returned, with an air of great dignity. "It will be nothing to
her; she expects it of me. Good-bye!" he added, with a nod.

I offered him my hand.

"Excuse me," said he. "It's small, I know; but I can't push things quite so far as that. I
don't wish any sentimental business, to sit by your hearth a white-haired wanderer, and all
that. Quite the contrary: I hope to God I shall never again clap eyes on either one of you."

"Well, God bless you, Northmour!" I said heartily.

"Oh, yes," he returned.

He walked down the beach; and the man who was ashore gave him an arm on board, and then shoved
off and leaped into the bows himself. Northmour took the tiller; the boat rose to the waves,
and the oars between the thole-pins sounded crisp and measured in the morning air.

They were not yet half-way to the Red Earl, and I was still watching their progress, when the
sun rose out of the sea.

One word more, and my story is done. Years after, Northmour was killed fighting under the colours
of Garibaldi for the liberation of the Tyrol.

A LODGING FOR THE NIGHT

A STORY OF FRANCIS VILLON

It was late in November 1456. The snow fell over Paris with rigorous, relentless persistence;
sometimes the wind made a sally and scattered it in flying vortices; sometimes there was a
lull, and flake after flake descended out of the black night air, silent, circuitous, interminable.
To poor people, looking up under moist eyebrows, it seemed a wonder where it all came from.
Master Francis Villon had propounded an alternative that afternoon at a tavern window: was
it only Pagan Jupiter plucking geese upon Olympus? or were the holy angels moulting? He was
only a poor Master of Arts, he went on; and as the question somewhat touched upon divinity,
he durst not venture to conclude. A silly old priest from Montargis, who was among the company,
treated the young rascal to a bottle of wine in honour of the jest and the grimaces with which
it was accompanied, and swore on his own white beard that he had been just such another irreverent
dog when he was Villon's age.

The air was raw and pointed, but not far below freezing; and the flakes were large, damp, and
adhesive. The whole city was sheeted up. An army might have marched from end to end and not
a footfall given the alarm. If there were any belated birds in heaven, they saw the island
like a large white patch, and the bridges like slim white spars, on the black ground of the
river. High up overhead the snow settled among the tracery of the cathedral towers. Many a
niche was drifted full; many a statue wore a long white bonnet on its grotesque or sainted
head. The gargoyles had been transformed into great false noses, drooping towards the point.
The crockets were like upright pillows swollen on one side. In the intervals of the wind there
was a dull sound of dripping about the precincts of the church.

The cemetery of St. John had taken its own share of the snow. All the graves were decently
covered; tall white housetops stood around in grave array; worthy burghers were long ago in
bed, be-nightcapped like their domiciles; there was no light in all the neighbourhood but a
little peep from a lamp that hung swinging in the church choir, and tossed the shadows to and
fro in time to its oscillations. The clock was hard on ten when the patrol went by with halberds
and a lantern, beating their hands; and they saw nothing suspicious about the cemetery of St. John.

Yet there was a small house, backed up against the cemetery wall, which was still awake, and
awake to evil purpose, in that snoring district. There was not much to betray it from without;
only a stream of warm vapour from the chimney-top, a patch where the snow melted on the roof,
and a few half-obliterated footprints at the door. But within, behind the shuttered windows,
Master Francis Villon the poet, and some of the thievish crew with whom he consorted, were
keeping the night alive and passing round the bottle.

A great pile of living embers diffused a strong and ruddy glow from the arched chimney. Before
this straddled Dom Nicolas, the Picardy monk, with his skirts picked up and his fat legs bared
to the comfortable warmth. His dilated shadow cut the room in half; and the firelight only
escaped on either side of his broad person, and in a little pool between his outspread feet.
His face had the beery, bruised appearance of the continual drinker's; it was covered with
a network of congested veins, purple in ordinary circumstances, but now pale violet, for even
with his back to the fire the cold pinched him on the other side. His cowl had half-fallen
back, and made a strange excrescence on either side of his bull-neck. So he straddled, grumbling,
and cut the room in half with the shadow of his portly frame.

On the right, Villon and Guy Tabary were huddled together over a scrap of parchment; Villon
making a ballade which he was to call the "Ballade of Roast Fish," and Tabary spluttering admiration
at his shoulder. The poet was a rag of a man, dark, little, and lean, with hollow cheeks and
thin black locks. He carried his four-and-twenty years with feverish animation. Greed had made
folds about his eyes, evil smiles had puckered his mouth. The wolf and pig struggled together
in his face. It was an eloquent, sharp, ugly, earthly countenance. His hands were small and
prehensile, with fingers knotted like a cord; and they were continually flickering in front
of him in violent and expressive pantomime. As for Tabary, a broad, complacent, admiring imbecility
breathed from his squash nose and slobbering lips: he had become a thief, just as he might
have become the most decent of burgesses, by the imperious chance that rules the lives of human
geese and human donkeys.

At the monk's other hand, Montigny and Thevenin Pensete played a game of chance. About the
first there clung some flavour of good birth and training, as about a fallen angel; something
long, lithe, and courtly in the person; something aquiline and darkling in the face. Thevenin,
poor soul, was in great feather: he had done a good stroke of knavery that afternoon in the
Faubourg St. Jacques, and all night he had been gaining from Montigny. A flat smile illuminated
his face; his bald head shone rosily in a garland of red curls; his little protuberant stomach
shook with silent chucklings as he swept in his gains.

"Doubles or quits?" said Thevenin.

Montigny nodded grimly.

"Some may prefer to dine in state," wrote Villon, "On bread and cheese on silver plate. Or--or--help
me out, Guido!"

Tabary giggled.

"Or parsley on a golden dish," scribbled the poet.

The wind was freshening without; it drove the snow before it, and sometimes raised its voice
in a victorious whoop, and made sepulchral grumblings in the chimney. The cold was growing
sharper as the night went on. Villon, protruding his lips, imitated the gust with something
between a whistle and a groan. It was an eerie, uncomfortable talent of the poet's, much detested
by the Picardy monk.

"Can't you hear it rattle in the gibbet?" said Villon. "They are all dancing the devil's jig
on nothing, up there. You may dance, my gallants, you'll be none the warmer! Whew! what a gust!
Down went somebody just now! A medlar the fewer on the three-legged medlar-tree!--I say, Dom
Nicolas, it'll be cold to-night on the St. Denis Road?" he asked.

Dom Nicolas winked both his big eyes, and seemed to choke upon his Adam's apple. Montfaucon,
the great grisly Paris gibbet, stood hard by the St. Denis Road, and the pleasantry touched
him on the raw. As for Tabary, he laughed immoderately over the medlars; he had never heard
anything more light-hearted; and he held his sides and crowed. Villon fetched him a fillip
on the nose, which turned his mirth into an attack of coughing.

"Oh, stop that row," said Villon, "and think of rhymes to 'fish.'"

"Doubles or quits?" said Montigny doggedly.

"With all my heart," quoth Thevenin.

"Is there any more in that bottle?" asked the monk.

"Open another," said Villon. "How do you ever hope to fill that big hogshead, your body, with
little things like bottles? And how do you expect to get to heaven? How many angels, do you
fancy, can be spared to carry up a single monk from Picardy? Or do you think yourself another
Elias--and they'll send the coach for you?"

"Hominibus impossibile," replied the monk, as he filled his glass.

Tabary was in ecstasies.

Villon filliped his nose again.

"Laugh at my jokes, if you like," he said.

"It was very good," objected Tabary.

Villon made a face at him. "Think of rhymes to 'fish'," he said, "What have you to do with
Latin? You'll wish you knew none of it at the great assizes, when the devil calls for Guido
Tabary, clericus--the devil with the hump-back and red-hot finger-nails. Talking of the devil,"
he added in a whisper, "look at Montigny!"

All three peered covertly at the gamester. He did not seem to be enjoying his luck. His mouth
was a little to a side; one nostril nearly shut, and the other much inflated. The black dog
was on his back, as people say, in terrifying nursery metaphor; and he breathed hard under
the gruesome burden.

"He looks as if he could knife him," whispered Tabary, with round eyes.

The monk shuddered, and turned his face and spread his open hands to the red embers. It was
the cold that thus affected Dom Nicolas, and not any excess of moral sensibility.

"Come now," said Villon--"about this ballade. How does it run so far?" And beating time with
his hand, he read it aloud to Tabary.

They were interrupted at the fourth rhyme by a brief and fatal movement among the gamesters.
The round was completed, and Thevenin was just opening his mouth to claim another victory,
when Montigny leaped up, swift as an adder, and stabbed him to the heart. The blow took effect
before he had time to utter a cry, before he had time to move. A tremor or two convulsed his
frame; his hands opened and shut, his heels rattled on the floor; then his head rolled backwards
over one shoulder with the eyes wide open; and Thevenin Pensete's spirit had returned to Him
who made it.

Every one sprang to his feet; but the business was over in two twos. The four living fellows
looked at each other in rather a ghastly fashion; the dead man contemplating a corner of the
roof with a singular and ugly leer.

"My God!" said Tabary; and he began to pray in Latin.

Villon broke out into hysterical laughter. He came a step forward and ducked a ridiculous bow
at Thevenin, and laughed still louder. Then he sat down suddenly, all of a heap, upon a stool,
and continued laughing bitterly as though he would shake himself to pieces.

Montigny recovered his composure first.

"Let's see what he has about him," he remarked; and he picked the dead man's pockets with a
practised hand, and divided the money into four equal portions on the table. "There's for you,"
he said.

The monk received his share with a deep sigh, and a single stealthy glance at the dead Thevenin,
who was beginning to sink into himself and topple sideways off the chair.

"We're all in for it," cried Villon, swallowing his mirth. "It's a hanging job for every man
jack of us that's here--not to speak of those who aren't." He made a shocking gesture in the
air with his raised right hand, and put out his tongue and threw his head on one side, so as
to counterfeit the appearance of one who has been hanged. Then he pocketed his share of the
spoil, and executed a shuffle with his feet as if to restore the circulation.

Tabary was the last to help himself; he made a dash at the money, and retired to the other
end of the apartment.

Montigny stuck Thevenin upright in the chair, and drew out the dagger, which was followed by
a jet of blood.

"You fellows had better be moving," he said, as he wiped the blade on his victim's doublet.

"I think we had," returned Villon, with a gulp. "Damn his fat head!" he broke out. "It sticks
in my throat like phlegm. What right has a man to have red hair when he is dead?" And he fell
all of a heap again upon the stool, and fairly covered his face with his hands.

Montigny and Dom Nicolas laughed aloud, even Tabary feebly chiming in.

"Cry baby," said the monk.

"I always said he was a woman," added Montigny with a sneer. "Sit up, can't you?" he went on,
giving another shake to the murdered body. "Tread out that fire, Nick!"

But Nick was better employed; he was quietly taking Villon's purse, as the poet sat, limp and
trembling, on the stool where he had been making a ballade not three minutes before. Montigny
and Tabary dumbly demanded a share of the booty, which the monk silently promised as he passed
the little bag into the bosom of his gown. In many ways an artistic nature unfits a man for
practical existence.

No sooner had the theft been accomplished than Villon shook himself, jumped to his feet, and
began helping to scatter and extinguish the embers. Meanwhile Montigny opened the door and
cautiously peered into the street. The coast was clear; there was no meddlesome patrol in sight.
Still it was judged wiser to slip out severally; and as Villon was himself in a hurry to escape
from the neighbourhood of the dead Thevenin, and the rest were in a still greater hurry to
get rid of him before he should discover the loss of his money, he was the first by general
consent to issue forth into the street.

The wind had triumphed and swept all the clouds from heaven. Only a few vapours, as thin as
moonlight, fleeted rapidly across the stars. It was bitter cold; and by a common optical effect,
things seemed almost more definite than in the broadest daylight. The sleeping city was absolutely
still: a company of white hoods, a field full of little Alps, below the twinkling stars. Villon
cursed his fortune. Would it were still snowing! Now, wherever he went, he left an indelible
trail behind him on the glittering streets; wherever he went he was still tethered to the house
by the cemetery of St. John; wherever he went he must weave, with his own plodding feet, the
rope that bound him to the crime and would bind him to the gallows. The leer of the dead man
came back to him with a new significance. He snapped his fingers as if to pluck up his own
spirits, and choosing a street at random, stepped boldly forward in the snow.

Two things preoccupied him as he went: the aspect of the gallows at Montfaucon in this bright
windy phase of the night's existence, for one; and for another, the look of the dead man with
his bald head and garland of red curls. Both struck cold upon his heart, and he kept quickening
his pace as if he could escape from unpleasant thoughts by mere fleetness of foot. Sometimes
he looked back over his shoulder with a sudden nervous jerk; but he was the only moving thing
in the white streets, except when the wind swooped round a corner and threw up the snow, which
was beginning to freeze, in spouts of glittering dust.

Suddenly he saw, a long way before him, a black clump and a couple of lanterns. The clump was
in motion, and the lanterns swung as though carried by men walking. It was a patrol. And though
it was merely crossing his line of march, he judged it wiser to get out of eyeshot as speedily
as he could. He was not in the humour to be challenged, and he was conscious of making a very
conspicuous mark upon the snow. Just on his left hand there stood a great hotel, with some
turrets and a large porch before the door; it was half-ruinous, he remembered, and had long
stood empty; and so he made three steps of it and jumped into the shelter of the porch. It
was pretty dark inside, after the glimmer of the snowy streets, and he was groping forward
with outspread hands, when he stumbled over some substance which offered an indescribable mixture
of resistances, hard and soft, firm and loose. His heart gave a leap, and he sprang two steps
back and stared dreadfully at the obstacle. Then he gave a little laugh of relief. It was only
a woman, and she dead. He knelt beside her to make sure upon this latter point. She was freezing
cold, and rigid like a stick. A little ragged finery fluttered in the wind about her hair,
and her cheeks had been heavily rouged that same afternoon. Her pockets were quite empty; but
in her stocking, underneath the garter, Villon found two of the small coins that went by the
name of whites. It was little enough; but it was always something; and the poet was moved with
a deep sense of pathos that she should have died before she had spent her money. That seemed
to him a dark and pitiable mystery; and he looked from the coins in his hand to the dead woman,
and back again to the coins, shaking his head over the riddle of man's life. Henry V. of England,
dying at Vincennes just after he had conquered France, and this poor jade cut off by a cold
draught in a great man's doorway, before she had time to spend her couple of whites--it seemed
a cruel way to carry on the world. Two whites would have taken such a little while to squander;
and yet it would have been one more good taste in the mouth, one more smack of the lips, before
the devil got the soul, and the body was left to birds and vermin. He would like to use all
his tallow before the light was blown out and the lantern broken.

While these thoughts were passing through his mind, he was feeling, half mechanically, for
his purse. Suddenly his heart stopped beating; a feeling of cold scales passed up the back
of his legs, and a cold blow seemed to fall upon his scalp. He stood petrified for a moment;
then he felt again with one feverish movement; and then his loss burst upon him, and he was
covered at once with perspiration. To spendthrifts money is so living and actual--it is such
a thin veil between them and their pleasures! There is only one limit to their fortune--that
of time; and a spendthrift with only a few crowns is the Emperor of Rome until they are spent.
For such a person to lose his money is to suffer the most shocking reverse, and fall from heaven
to hell, from all to nothing, in a breath. And all the more if he has put his head in the halter
for it; if he may be hanged to-morrow for that same purse so dearly earned, so foolishly departed!
Villon stood and cursed; he threw the two whites into the street; he shook his fist at heaven;
he stamped, and was not horrified to find himself trampling the poor corpse. Then he began
rapidly to retrace his steps towards the house beside the cemetery. He had forgotten all fear
of the patrol, which was long gone by at any rate, and had no idea but that of his lost purse.
It was in vain that he looked right and left upon the snow: nothing was to be seen. He had
not dropped it in the streets. Had it fallen in the house? He would have liked dearly to go
in and see; but the idea of the grisly occupant unmanned him. And he saw besides, as he drew
near, that their efforts to put out the fire had been unsuccessful; on the contrary, it had
broken into a blaze, and a changeful light played in the chinks of door and window, and revived
his terror for the authorities and Paris gibbet.

He returned to the hotel with the porch, and groped about upon the snow for the money he had
thrown away in his childish passion. But he could only find one white; the other had probably
struck sideways and sunk deeply in. With a single white in his pocket, all his projects for
a rousing night in some wild tavern vanished utterly away. And it was not only pleasure that
fled laughing from his grasp; positive discomfort, positive pain, attacked him as he stood
ruefully before the porch. His perspiration had dried upon him; and though the wind had now
fallen, a binding frost was setting in stronger with every hour, and he felt benumbed and sick
at heart. What was to be done? Late as was the hour, improbable as was success, he would try
the house of his adopted father, the chaplain of St. Benoît.

He ran there all the way, and knocked timidly. There was no answer. He knocked again and again,
taking heart with every stroke; and at last steps were heard approaching from within. A barred
wicket fell open in the iron-studded door, and emitted a gush of yellow light.

"Hold up your face to the wicket," said the chaplain from within.

"It's only me," whimpered Villon.

"Oh, it's only you, is it?" returned the chaplain; and he cursed him with foul unpriestly oaths
for disturbing him at such an hour, and bade him be off to hell, where he came from.

"My hands are blue to the wrist," pleaded Villon; "my feet are dead and full of twinges: my
nose aches with the sharp air; the cold lies at my heart. I may be dead before morning. Only
this once, father, and before God I will never ask again!"

"You should have come earlier," said the ecclesiastic coolly. "Young men require a lesson now
and then." He shut the wicket and retired deliberately into the interior of the house.

Villon was beside himself; he beat upon the door with his hands and feet, and shouted hoarsely
after the chaplain.

"Wormy old fox!" he cried. "If I had my hand under your twist, I would send you flying headlong
into the bottomless pit."

A door shut in the interior, faintly audible to the poet down long passages. He passed his
hand over his mouth with an oath. And then the humour of the situation struck him, and he laughed
and looked lightly up to heaven, where the stars seemed to be winking over his discomfiture.

What was to be done? It looked very like a night in the frosty streets. The idea of the dead
woman popped into his imagination, and gave him a hearty fright; what had happened to her in
the early night might very well happen to him before morning. And he so young! and with such
immense possibilities of disorderly amusement before him! He felt quite pathetic over the notion
of his own fate, as if it had been some one else's, and made a little imaginative vignette
of the scene in the morning, when they should find his body.

He passed all his chances under review, turning the white between his thumb and forefinger.
Unfortunately he was on bad terms with some old friends who would once have taken pity on him
in such a plight. He had lampooned them in verses, he had beaten and cheated them; and yet
now, when he was in so close a pinch, he thought there was at least one who might perhaps relent.
It was a chance. It was worth trying at least, and he would go and see.

On the way, two little accidents happened to him which coloured his musings in a very different
manner. For, first, he fell in with the track of a patrol, and walked in it for some hundred
yards, although it lay out of his direction. And this spirited him up; at least he had confused
his trail; for he was still possessed with the idea of people tracking him all about Paris
over the snow, and collaring him next morning before he was awake. The other matter affected
him very differently. He passed a street corner, where, not so long before, a woman and her
child had been devoured by wolves. This was just the kind of weather, he reflected, when wolves
might take it into their heads to enter Paris again; and a lone man in these deserted streets
would run the chance of something worse than a mere scare. He stopped and looked upon the place
with an unpleasant interest--it was a centre where several lanes intersected each other; and
he looked down them all one after another, and held his breath to listen, lest he should detect
some galloping black things on the snow, or hear the sound of howling between him and the river.
He remembered his mother telling him the story and pointing out the spot, while he was yet
a child. His mother! If he only knew where she lived, he might make sure at least of shelter.
He determined he would inquire upon the morrow; nay, he would go and see her too, poor old
girl! So thinking, he arrived at his destination--his last hope for the night.

The house was quite dark, like its neighbours, and yet after a few taps, he heard a movement
overhead, a door opening, and a cautious voice asking who was there. The poet named himself
in a loud whisper, and waited, not without some trepidation, the result. Nor had he to wait
long. A window was suddenly opened, and a pailful of slops splashed down upon the doorstep.
Villon had not been unprepared for something of the sort, and had put himself as much in shelter
as the nature of the porch admitted; but for all that, he was deplorably drenched below the
waist. His hose began to freeze almost at once. Death from cold and exposure stared him in
the face; he remembered he was of phthisical tendency, and began coughing tentatively. But
the gravity of the danger steadied his nerves. He stopped a few hundred yards from the door
where he had been so rudely used, and reflected with his finger to his nose. He could only
see one way of getting a lodging, and that was to take it. He had noticed a house not far away,
which looked as if it might be easily broken into, and thither he betook himself promptly,
entertaining himself on the way with the idea of a room still hot, with a table still loaded
with the remains of supper, where he might pass the rest of the black hours, and whence he
should issue, on the morrow, with an armful of valuable plate. He even considered on what viands
and what wines he should prefer; and as he was calling the roll of his favourite dainties,
roast fish presented itself to his mind with an odd mixture of amusement and horror.

"I shall never finish that ballade," he thought to himself; and then, with another shudder
at the recollection, "Oh, damn his fat head!" he repeated fervently, and spat upon the snow.

The house in question looked dark at first sight; but as Villon made a preliminary inspection
in search of the handiest point of attack, a little twinkle of light caught his eye from behind
a curtained window.

"The devil!" he thought. "People awake! Some student or some saint, confound the crew! Can't
they get drunk and lie in bed snoring like their neighbours! What's the good of curfew, and
poor devils of bell-ringers jumping at a rope's-end in bell-towers? What's the use of day,
if people sit up all night? The gripes to them!" He grinned as he saw where his logic was leading
him. "Every man to his business, after all," added he, "and if they're awake, by the lord,
I may come by a supper honestly for this once, and cheat the devil."

"You have blood on your shoulder, my man," he said.

Montigny must have laid his wet right hand upon him as he left the house. He cursed Montigny
in his heart.

"It was none of my shedding," he stammered.

"I had not supposed so," returned his host quietly. "A brawl?"

"Well, something of that sort," Villon admitted with a quaver.

"Perhaps a fellow murdered?"

"Oh, no--not murdered," said the poet, more and more confused. "It was all fair play--murdered
by accident. I had no hand in it, God strike me dead!" he added fervently.

"One rogue the fewer, I daresay," observed the master of the house.

"You may dare to say that," agreed Villon, infinitely relieved. "As big a rogue as there is
between here and Jerusalem. He turned up his toes like a lamb. But it was a nasty thing to
look at. I daresay you've seen dead men in your time, my lord?" he added, glancing at the armour.

"Many," said the old man. "I have followed the wars, as you imagine."

Villon laid down his knife and fork, which he had just taken up again.

"Were any of them bald?" he asked.

"Oh yes, and with hair as white as mine."

"I don't think I should mind the white so much," said Villon. "His was red." And he had a return
of his shuddering and tendency to laughter, which he drowned with a great draught of wine.
"I'm a little put out when I think of it," he went on. "I knew him--damn him! And then the
cold gives a man fancies--or the fancies give a man cold, I don't know which."

"Have you any money?" asked the old man. Who and what may you be?"

"A thief!" cried the old man. "I a thief! If you understood your words, you would repent them."

Villon turned out his hands with a gesture of inimitable impudence. "If your lordship had done
me the honour to follow my argument!" he said.

"I do you too much honour in submitting to your presence," said the knight. "Learn to curb
your tongue when you speak with old and honourable men, or some one hastier than I may reprove
you in a sharper fashion." And he rose and paced the lower end of the apartment, struggling
with anger and antipathy. Villon surreptitiously refilled his cup, and settled himself more
comfortably in the chair, crossing his knees and leaning his head upon one hand and the elbow
against the back of the chair. He was now replete and warm; and he was in nowise frightened
for his host, having gauged him as justly as was possible between two such different characters.
The night was far spent, and in a very comfortable fashion after all; and he felt morally certain
of a safe departure on the morrow.

"Tell me one thing," said the old man, pausing in his walk. "Are you really a thief?"

"I claim the sacred rights of hospitality," returned the poet. "My lord, I am."

"You are very young," the knight continued.

"I should never have been so old," replied Villon, showing his fingers, "if I had not helped
myself with these ten talents. They have been my nursing-mothers and my nursing-fathers."

"You may still repent and change."

"I repent daily," said the poet. "There are few people more given to repentance than poor Francis.
As for change, let somebody change my circumstances. A man must continue to eat, if it were
only that he may continue to repent."

"The change must begin in the heart," returned the old man solemnly.

"My dear lord," answered Villon, "do you really fancy that I steal for pleasure? I hate stealing,
like any other piece of work or of danger. My teeth chatter when I see a gallows. But I must
eat, I must drink, I must mix in society of some sort. What the devil! Man is not a solitary
animal--Cui Deus foeminam tradit. Make me king's pantler--make me abbot of St. Denis; make
me bailly of the Patatrac; and then I shall be changed indeed. But as long as you leave me
the poor scholar Francis Villon, without a farthing, why, of course, I remain the same."

"The grace of God is all-powerful."

"I should be a heretic to question it," said Francis. "It has made you lord of Brisetout and
bailly of the Patatrac; it has given me nothing but the quick wits under my hat and these ten
toes upon my hands. May I help myself to wine? I thank you respectfully. By God's grace, you
have a very superior vintage."

The lord of Brisetout walked to and fro with his hands behind his back. Perhaps he was not
yet quite settled in his mind about the parallel between thieves and soldiers; perhaps Villon
had interested him by some cross-thread of sympathy; perhaps his wits were simply muddled by
so much unfamiliar reasoning; but whatever the cause, he somehow yearned to convert the young
man to a better way of thinking, and could not make up his mind to drive him forth again into
the street.

"There is something more than I can understand in this," he said at length. "Your mouth is
full of subtleties, and the devil has led you very far astray; but the devil is only a very
weak spirit before God's truth, and all his subtleties vanish at a word of true honour, like
darkness at morning. Listen to me once more. I learned long ago that a gentleman should live
chivalrously and lovingly to God, and the king, and his lady; and though I have seen many strange
things done, I have still striven to command my ways upon that rule. It is not only written
in all noble histories, but in every man's heart, if he will take care to read. You speak of
food and wine, and I know very well that hunger is a difficult trial to endure; but you do
not speak of other wants; you say nothing of honour, of faith to God and other men, of courtesy,
of love without reproach. It may be that I am not very wise--and yet I think I am--but you
seem to me like one who has lost his way and made a great error in life. You are attending
to the little wants, and you have totally forgotten the great and only real ones, like a man
who should be doctoring a toothache on the Judgment Day. I speak to you as I think you will
most easily understand me. Are you not, while careful to fill your belly, disregarding another
appetite in your heart, which spoils the pleasure of your life and keeps you continually wretched?"

Villon was sensibly nettled under all this sermonising. "You think I have no sense of honour!"
he cried. "I'm poor enough, God knows! It's hard to see rich people with their gloves, and
you blowing in your hands. An empty belly is a bitter thing, although you speak so lightly
of it. If you had had as many as I, perhaps you would change your tune. Any way I'm a thief--make
the most of that--but I'm not a devil from hell, God strike me dead! I would have you to know
I've an honour of my own, as good as yours, though I don't prate about it all day long, as
if it was a God's miracle to have any. It seems quite natural to me; I keep it in its box till
it's wanted. Why now, look you here, how long have I been in this room with you? Did you not
tell me you were alone in the house? Look at your gold plate! You're strong, if you like, but
you're old and unarmed, and I have my knife. What did I want but a jerk of the elbow and here
would have been you with the cold steel in your bowels, and there would have been me, linking
in the streets, with an armful of gold cups! Did you suppose I hadn't wit enough to see that?
And I scorned the action. There are your damned goblets, as safe as in a church; there are
you, with your heart ticking as good as new; and here am I, ready to go out again as poor as
I came in, with my one white that you threw in my teeth! And you think I have no sense of honour--God
strike me dead!"

The old man stretched out his right arm. "I will tell you what you are," he said. "You are
a rogue, my man, an impudent and a black-hearted rogue and vagabond. I have passed an hour
with you. Oh! believe me, I feel myself disgraced! And you have eaten and drunk at my table.
But now I am sick at your presence; the day has come, and the night-bird should be off to his
roost. Will you go before, or after?"

"Which you please," returned the poet, rising. "I believe you to be strictly honourable." He
thoughtfully emptied his cup. "I wish I could add you were intelligent," he went on, knocking
on his head with his knuckles. "Age, age! the brains stiff and rheumatic."

The old man preceded him from a point of self-respect; Villon followed, whistling, with his
thumbs in his girdle.

"God pity you," said the lord of Brisetout at the door.

"Good-bye, papa," returned Villon, with a yawn. "Many thanks for the cold mutton."

The door closed behind him. The dawn was breaking over the white roofs. A chill, uncomfortable
morning ushered in the day. Villon stood and heartily stretched himself in the middle of the road.

"A very dull old gentleman," he thought. "I wonder what his goblets may be worth."

THE SIRE DE MALÉTROIT'S DOOR

Denis de Beaulieu was not yet two-and-twenty, but he counted himself a grown man, and a very
accomplished cavalier into the bargain. Lads were early formed in that rough, war-faring epoch;
and when one has been in a pitched battle and a dozen raids, has killed one's man in an honourable
fashion, and knows a thing or two of strategy and mankind, a certain swagger in the gait is
surely to be pardoned. He had put up his horse with due care, and supped with due deliberation;
and then, in a very agreeable frame of mind, went out to pay a visit in the grey of the evening.
It was not a very wise proceeding on the young man's part. He would have done better to remain
beside the fire or go decently to bed. For the town was full of the troops of Burgundy and
England under a mixed command; and though Denis was there on safe-conduct, his safe-conduct
was like to serve him little on a chance encounter.

It was September 1429; the weather had fallen sharp; a flighty piping wind, laden with showers,
beat about the township; and the dead leaves ran riot along the streets. Here and there a window
was already lighted up; and the noise of men-at-arms making merry over supper within came forth
in fits and was swallowed up and carried away by the wind. The night fell swiftly; the flag
of England, fluttering on the spire-top, grew ever fainter and fainter against the flying clouds--a
black speck like a swallow in the tumultuous, leaden chaos of the sky. As the night fell the
wind rose, and began to hoot under archways and roar amid the tree-tops in the valley below
the town.

Denis de Beaulieu walked fast, and was soon knocking at his friend's door; but though he promised
himself to stay only a little while and make an early return, his welcome was so pleasant,
and he found so much to delay him, that it was already long past midnight before he said good-bye
upon the threshold. The wind had fallen again in the meanwhile; the night was as black as the
grave; not a star, nor a glimmer of moonshine, slipped through the canopy of cloud. Denis was
ill-acquainted with the intricate lanes of Château Landon; even by daylight he had found some
trouble in picking his way; and in this absolute darkness he soon lost it altogether. He was
certain of one thing only--to keep mounting the hill; for his friend's house lay at the lower
end, or tail, of Château Landon, while the inn was up at the head, under the great church spire.
With this clue to go upon he stumbled and groped forward, now breathing more freely in open
places where there was a good slice of sky overhead, now feeling along the wall in stifling
closes. It is an eerie and mysterious position to be thus submerged in opaque blackness in
an almost unknown town. The silence is terrifying in its possibilities. The touch of cold window-bars
to the exploring hand startles the man like the touch of a toad; the inequalities of the pavement
shake his heart into his mouth; a piece of denser darkness threatens an ambuscade or a chasm
in the pathway; and where the air is brighter, the houses put on strange and bewildering appearances,
as if to lead him farther from his way. For Denis, who had to regain his inn without attracting
notice, there was real danger as well as mere discomfort in the walk; and he went warily and
boldly at once, and at every corner paused to make an observation.

He had been for some time threading a lane so narrow that he could touch a wall with either
hand, when it began to open out and go sharply downward. Plainly this lay no longer in the
direction of his inn; but the hope of a little more light tempted him forward to reconnoitre.
The lane ended in a terrace with a bartizan wall, which gave an outlook between high houses,
as out of an embrasure, into the valley lying dark and formless several hundred feet below.
Denis looked down, and could discern a few tree-tops waving and a single speck of brightness
where the river ran across a weir. The weather was clearing up, and the sky had lightened,
so as to show the outline of the heavier clouds and the dark margin of the hills. By the uncertain
glimmer, the house on his left hand should be a place of some pretensions; it was surmounted
by several pinnacles and turret-tops; the round stern of a chapel, with a fringe of flying
buttresses, projected boldly from the main block; and the door was sheltered under a deep porch
carved with figures and overhung by two long gargoyles. The windows of the chapel gleamed through
their intricate tracery with a light as of many tapers, and threw out the buttresses and the
peaked roof in a more intense blackness against the sky. It was plainly the hotel of some great
family of the neighbourhood; and as it reminded Denis of a town-house of his own at Bourges,
he stood for some time gazing up at it and mentally gauging the skill of the architects and
the consideration of the two families.

There seemed to be no issue to the terrace but the lane by which he had reached it; he could
only retrace his steps, but he had gained some notion of his whereabouts, and hoped by this
means to hit the main thoroughfare and speedily regain the inn. He was reckoning without that
chapter of accidents which was to make this night memorable above all others in his career;
for he had not gone back above a hundred yards before he saw a light coming to meet him, and
heard loud voices speaking together in the echoing narrows of the lane. It was a party of men-at-arms
going the night-round with torches. Denis assured himself that they had all been making free
with the wine-bowl, and were in no mood to be particular about safe-conducts or the niceties
of chivalrous war. It was as like as not that they would kill him like a dog and leave him
where he fell. The situation was inspiriting, but nervous. Their own torches would conceal
him from sight, he reflected; and he hoped that they would drown the noise of his footsteps
with their own empty voices. If he were but fleet and silent, he might evade their notice altogether.

Unfortunately, as he turned to beat a retreat, his foot rolled upon a pebble; he fell against
the wall with an ejaculation, and his sword rang loudly on the stones. Two or three voices
demanded who went there--some in French, some in English; but Denis made no reply, and ran
the faster down the lane. Once upon the terrace, he paused to look back. They still kept calling
after him, and just then began to double the pace in pursuit, with a considerable clank of
armour, and great tossing of the torchlight to and fro in the narrow jaws of the passage.

Denis cast a look around and darted into the porch. There he might escape observation, or--if
that were too much to expect--was in a capital posture whether for parley or defence. So thinking,
he drew his sword and tried to set his back against the door. To his surprise, it yielded behind
his weight; and though he turned in a moment, continued to swing back on oiled and noiseless
hinges, until it stood wide open on a black interior. When things fall out opportunely for
the person concerned, he is not apt to be critical about the how or why, his own immediate
personal convenience seeming a sufficient reason for the strangest oddities and revolutions
in our sublunary things; and so Denis, without a moment's hesitation, stepped within and partly
closed the door behind him to conceal his place of refuge. Nothing was further from his thoughts
than to close it altogether; but for some inexplicable reason--perhaps by a spring or a weight--the
ponderous mass of oak whipped itself out of his fingers and clanked to, with a formidable rumble
and noise like the falling of an automatic bar.

The round, at that very moment, debouched upon the terrace, and proceeded to summon him with
shouts and curses. He heard them ferreting in the dark corners; the stock of a lance even rattled
along the outer surface of the door behind which he stood; but these gentlemen were in too
high a humour to be long delayed, and soon made off down a corkscrew pathway which had escaped
Denis's observation, and passed out of sight and hearing along the battlements of the town.

Denis breathed again. He gave them a few minutes' grace for fear of accidents, and then groped
about for some means of opening the door and slipping forth again. The inner surface was quite
smooth, not a handle, not a moulding, not a projection of any sort. He got his finger-nails
round the edges and pulled, but the mass was immovable. He shook it; it was as firm as a rock.
Denis de Beaulieu frowned and gave vent to a little noiseless whistle. What ailed the door?
he wondered. Why was it open? How came it to shut so easily and so effectually after him? There
was something obscure and underhand about all this that was little to the young man's fancy.
It looked like a snare; and yet who could suppose a snare in such a quiet by-street and in
a house of so prosperous and even noble an exterior? And yet--snare or no snare, intentionally
or unintentionally--here he was, prettily trapped; and for the life of him he could see no
way out of it again. The darkness began to weigh upon him. He gave ear; all was silent without,
but within and close by he seemed to catch a faint sighing, a faint sobbing rustle, a little
stealthy creak--as though many persons were at his side, holding themselves quite still, and
governing even their respiration with the extreme of slyness. The idea went to his vitals with
a shock, and he faced about suddenly as if to defend his life. Then, for the first time, he
became aware of a light about the level of his eyes, and at some distance in the interior of
the house--a vertical thread of light, widening towards the bottom, such as might escape between
two wings of arras over a doorway. To see anything was a relief to Denis; it was like a piece
of solid ground to a man labouring in a morass; his mind seized upon it with avidity; and he
stood staring at it and trying to piece together some logical conception of his surroundings.
Plainly there was a flight of steps ascending from his own level to that of this illuminated
doorway; and indeed he thought he could make out another thread of light, as fine as a needle,
and as faint as phosphorescence, which might very well be reflected along the polished wood
of a handrail. Since he had begun to suspect that he was not alone, his heart had continued
to beat with smothering violence, and an intolerable desire for action of any sort had possessed
itself of his spirit. He was in deadly peril, he believed. What could be more natural than
to mount the staircase, lift the curtain, and confront his difficulty at once? At least he
would be dealing with something tangible; at least he would be no longer in the dark. He stepped
slowly forward with outstretched hands, until his foot struck the bottom step; then he rapidly
scaled the stairs, stood for a moment to compose his expression, lifted the arras, and went in.

He found himself in a large apartment of polished stone. There were three doors; one on each
of three sides; all similarly curtained with tapestry. The fourth side was occupied by two
large windows and a great stone chimney-piece, carved with the arms of the Malétroits. Denis
recognised the bearings, and was gratified to find himself in such good hands. The room was
strongly illuminated; but it contained little furniture except a heavy table and a chair or
two, the hearth was innocent of fire, and the pavement was but sparsely strewn with rushes
clearly many days old.

On a high chair beside the chimney, and directly facing Denis as he entered, sat a little old
gentleman in a fur tippet. He sat with his legs crossed and his hands folded, and a cup of
spiced wine stood by his elbow on a bracket on the wall. His countenance had a strongly masculine
cast; not properly human, but such as we see in the bull, the goat, or the domestic boar; something
equivocal and wheedling, something greedy, brutal, and dangerous. The upper lip was inordinately
full, as though swollen by a blow or a toothache; and the smile, the peaked eyebrows, and the
small, strong eyes were quaintly and almost comically evil in expression. Beautiful white hair
hung straight all round his head, like a saint's, and fell in a single curl upon the tippet.
His beard and moustache were the pink of venerable sweetness. Age, probably in consequence
of inordinate precautions, had left no mark upon his hands; and the Malétroit hand was famous.
It would be difficult to imagine anything at once so fleshy and so delicate in design; the
taper, sensual fingers were like those of one of Leonardo's women; the fork of the thumb made
a dimple protuberance when closed; the nails were perfectly shaped, and of a dead, surprising
whiteness. It rendered his aspect tenfold more redoubtable, that a man with hands like these
should keep them devoutly folded in his lap like a virgin martyr--that a man with so intense
and startling an expression of face should sit patiently on his seat and contemplate people
with an unwinking stare, like a god, or a god's statue. His quiescence seemed ironical and
treacherous, it fitted so poorly with his looks.

Such was Alain, Sire de Malétroit.

Denis and he looked silently at each other for a second or two.

"Pray step in," said the Sire de Malétroit. "I have been expecting you all the evening."

He had not risen, but he accompanied his words with a smile and a slight but courteous inclination
of the head. Partly from the smile, partly from the strange musical murmur with which the Sire
prefaced his observation, Denis felt a strong shudder of disgust go through his marrow. And
what with disgust and honest confusion of mind, he could scarcely get words together in reply.

"I fear," he said, "that this is a double accident. I am not the person you suppose me. It
seems you were looking for a visit; but for my part, nothing was further from my thoughts--nothing
could be more contrary to my wishes--than this intrusion."

"Well, well," replied the old gentleman indulgently, "here you are, which is the main point.
Seat yourself, my friend, and put yourself entirely at your ease. We shall arrange our little
affairs presently."

Denis perceived that the matter was still complicated with some misconception, and he hastened
to continue his explanations.

"Your door ----" he began.

"About my door?" asked the other, raising his peaked eyebrows. "A little piece of ingenuity."
And he shrugged his shoulders. "A hospitable fancy! By your own account, you were not desirous
of making my acquaintance. We old people look for such reluctance now and then; and when it
touches our honour, we cast about until we find some way of overcoming it. You arrive uninvited,
but believe me, very welcome."

"You persist in error, sir," said Denis. "There can be no question between you and me. I am
a stranger in this countryside. My name is Denis, damoiseau de Beaulieu. If you see me in your
house, it is only ----"

"My young friend," interrupted the other, "you will permit me to have my own ideas on that
subject. They probably differ from yours at the present moment," he added, with a leer, "but
time will show which of us is in the right."

Denis was convinced he had to do with a lunatic. He seated himself with a shrug, content to
wait the upshot; and a pause ensued, during which he thought he could distinguish a hurried
gabbling as of prayer from behind the arras immediately opposite him. Sometimes there seemed
to be but one person engaged, sometimes two; and the vehemence of the voice, low as it was,
seemed to indicate either haste or an agony of spirit. It occurred to him that this piece of
tapestry covered the entrance to the chapel he had noticed from without.

The old gentleman meanwhile surveyed Denis from head to foot with a smile, and from time to
time emitted little noises like a bird or a mouse, which seemed to indicate a high degree of
satisfaction. This state of matters became rapidly insupportable; and Denis, to put an end
to it, remarked politely that the wind had gone down.

The old gentleman fell into a fit of silent laughter, so prolonged and violent that he became
quite red in the face. Denis got upon his feet at once, and put on his hat with a flourish.

"Sir," he said, "if you are in your wits, you have affronted me grossly. If you are out of
them, I flatter myself I can find better employment for my brains than to talk with lunatics.
My conscience is clear; you have made a fool of me from the first moment; you have refused
to hear my explanations; and now there is no power under God will make me stay here any longer;
and if I cannot make my way out in a more decent fashion, I will hack your door in pieces with
my sword."

The Sire de Malétroit raised his right hand and wagged it at Denis with the fore and little
fingers extended.

"My dear nephew," he said, "sit down."

"Nephew!" retorted Denis, "you lie in your throat"; and he snapped his fingers in his face.

"Sit down, you rogue!" cried the old gentleman, in a sudden, harsh voice, like the barking
of a dog. "Do you fancy," he went on, "that when I made my little contrivance for the door
I had stopped short with that? If you prefer to be bound hand and foot till your bones ache,
rise and try to go away. If you choose to remain a free young buck, agreeably conversing with
an old gentleman--why, sit where you are in peace, and God be with you."

"Do you mean I am a prisoner?" demanded Denis.

"I state the facts," replied the other. "I would rather leave the conclusion to yourself."

Denis sat down again. Externally he managed to keep pretty calm; but within, he was now boiling
with anger, now chilled with apprehension. He no longer felt convinced that he was dealing
with a madman. And if the old gentleman was sane, what, in God's name, had he to look for?
What absurd or tragical adventure had befallen him? What countenance was he to assume?

While he was thus unpleasantly reflecting, the arras that overhung the chapel door was raised,
and a tall priest in his robes came forth, and; giving a long, keen stare at Denis, said something
in an undertone to Sire de Malétroit.

"She is in a better frame of spirit?" asked the latter.

"She is more resigned, messire," replied the priest.

"Now the Lord help her, she is hard to please!" sneered the old gentleman. "A likely stripling--not
ill-born--and of her own choosing too? Why, what more would the jade have?"

"The situation is not usual for a young damsel," said the other, "and somewhat trying to her
blushes."

"She should have thought of that before she began the dance! It was none of my choosing, God
knows that: but since she is in it, by Our Lady, she shall carry it to the end." And then addressing
Denis, "Monsieur de Beaulieu," he asked, "may I present you to my niece? She has been waiting
your arrival, I may say, with even greater impatience than myself."

Denis had resigned himself with a good grace--all he desired was to know the worst of it as
speedily as possible; so he rose at once, and bowed in acquiescence. The Sire de Malétroit
followed his example, and limped, with the assistance of the chaplain's arm, towards the chapel
door. The priest pulled aside the arras, and all three entered. The building had considerable
architectural pretensions. A light groining sprang from six stout columns, and hung down in
two rich pendants from the centre of the vault. The place terminated behind the altar in a
round end, embossed and honeycombed with a superfluity of ornament in relief, and pierced by
many little windows shaped like stars, trefoils, or wheels. These windows were imperfectly
glazed, so that the night-air circulated freely in the chapel. The tapers, of which there must
have been half a hundred burning on the altar, were unmercifully blown about; and the light
went through many different phases of brilliancy and semi-eclipse. On the steps in front of
the altar knelt a young girl richly attired as a bride. A chill settled over Denis as he observed
her costume; he fought with desperate energy against the conclusion that was being thrust upon
his mind; it could not--it should not--be as he feared.

"Blanche," said the Sire, in his most flute-like tones, "I have brought a friend to see you,
my little girl; turn round and give him your pretty hand. It is good to be devout; but it is
necessary to be polite, my niece."

The girl rose to her feet and turned towards the newcomers. She moved all of a piece; and shame
and exhaustion were expressed in every line of her fresh young body; and she held her head
down and kept her eyes upon the pavement, as she came slowly forward. In the course of her
advance, her eyes fell upon Denis de Beaulieu's feet--feet of which he was justly vain, be
it remarked, and wore in the most elegant accoutrement even while travelling. She paused--started,
as if his yellow boots had conveyed some shocking meaning--and glanced suddenly up into the
wearer's countenance. Their eyes met; shame gave place to horror and terror in her looks; the
blood left her lips; with a piercing scream she covered her face with her hands and sank upon
the chapel floor.

"That is not the man!" she cried. "My uncle, that is not the man!"

The Sire de Malétroit chirped agreeably. "Of course not," he said, "I expected as much. It
was so unfortunate you could not remember his name."

"Indeed," she cried, "indeed, I have never seen this person till this moment--I have never
so much as set eyes upon him--I never wish to see him again. Sir," she said, turning to Denis,
"if you are a gentleman, you will bear me out. Have I ever seen you--have you ever seen me--before
this accursed hour?"

"To speak for myself, I have never had that pleasure," answered the young man. "This is the
first time, messire, that I have met with your engaging niece."

The old gentleman shrugged his shoulders.

"I am distressed to hear it," he said. "But it is never too late to begin. I had little more
acquaintance with my own late lady ere I married her; which proves," he added with a grimace,
"that these impromptu marriages may often produce an excellent understanding in the long-run.
As the bridegroom is to have a voice in the matter, I will give him two hours to make up for
lost time before we proceed with the ceremony." And he turned towards the door, followed by
the clergyman.

The girl was on her feet in a moment. "My uncle, you cannot be in earnest," she said. "I declare
before God I will stab myself rather than be forced on that young man. The heart rises at it;
God forbids such marriages; you dishonour your white hair. Oh, my uncle, pity me! There is
not a woman in all the world but would prefer death to such a nuptial. Is it possible," she
added, faltering--"is it possible that you do not believe me--that you still think this"--and
she pointed at Denis with a tremor of anger and contempt--"that you still think this to be
the man?"

"Frankly," said the old gentleman, pausing on the threshold, "I do. But let me explain to you
once for all, Blanche de Malétroit, my way of thinking about this affair. When you took it
into your head to dishonour my family and the name that I have borne, in peace and war, for
more than threescore years, you forfeited, not only the right to question my designs, but that
of looking me in the face. If your father had been alive, he would have spat on you and turned
you out of doors. His was the hand of iron. You may bless your God you have only to deal with
the hand of velvet, mademoiselle. It was my duty to get you married without delay. Out of pure
goodwill, I have tried to find your own gallant for you. And I believe I have succeeded. But
before God and all the holy angels, Blanche de Malétroit, if I have not, I care not one jack-straw.
So let me recommend you to be polite to our young friend; for upon my word, your next groom
may be less appetising."

And with that he went out, with the chaplain at his heels; and the arras fell behind the pair.

The girl turned upon Denis with flashing eyes.

"And what, sir," she demanded, "may be the meaning of all this?"

"God knows," returned Denis gloomily. "I am a prisoner in this house, which seems full of mad
people. More I know not, and nothing do I understand."

"And pray how came you here?" she asked.

He told her as briefly as he could. "For the rest," he added, "perhaps you will follow my example,
and tell me the answer to all these riddles, and what, in God's name, is like to be the end of it."

She stood silent for a little, and he could see her lips tremble and her tearless eyes burn
with a feverish lustre. Then she pressed her forehead in both hands.

"Alas, how my head aches!" she said wearily--"to say nothing of my poor heart! But it is due
to you to know my story, unmaidenly as it must seem. I am called Blanche de Malétroit; I have
been without father or mother for--oh! for as long as I can recollect, and indeed I have been
most unhappy all my life. Three months ago a young captain began to stand near me every day
in church. I could see that I pleased him; I am much to blame, but I was so glad that any one
should love me; and when he passed me a letter, I took it home with me and read it with great
pleasure. Since that time he has written many. He was so anxious to speak with me, poor fellow!
and kept asking me to leave the door open some evening that we might have two words upon the
stair. For he knew how much my uncle trusted me." She gave something like a sob at that, and
it was a moment before she could go on. "My uncle is a hard man, but he is very shrewd," she
said at last. "He has performed many feats in war, and was a great person at court, and much
trusted by Queen Isabeau in old days. How he came to suspect me I cannot tell; but it is hard
to keep anything from his knowledge; and this morning, as we came from mass, he took my hand
in his, forced it open, and read my little billet, walking by my side all the while. When he
had finished, he gave it back to me with great politeness. It contained another request to
have the door left open; and this has been the ruin of us all. My uncle kept me strictly in
my room until evening, and then ordered me to dress myself as you see me--a hard mockery for
a young girl, do you not think so? I suppose, when he could not prevail with me to tell him
the young captain's name, he must have laid a trap for him: into which, alas! you have fallen
in the anger of God. I looked for much confusion; for how could I tell whether he was willing
to take me for his wife on these sharp terms? He might have been trifling with me from the
first; or I might have made myself too cheap in his eyes. But truly I had not looked for such
a shameful punishment as this! I could not think that God would let a girl be so disgraced
before a young man. And now I have told you all; and I can scarcely hope that you will not
despise me."

Denis made her a respectful inclination.

"Madam," he said, "you have honoured me by your confidence. It remains for me to prove that
I am not unworthy of the honour. Is Messire de Malétroit at hand?"

"I believe he is writing in the salle without," she answered.

"May I lead you thither, madam?" asked Denis, offering his hand with his most courtly bearing.

She accepted it; and the pair passed out of the chapel, Blanche in a very drooping and shamefaced
condition, but Denis strutting and ruffling in the consciousness of a mission, and a boyish
certainty of accomplishing it with honour.

The Sire de Malétroit rose to meet them with an ironical obeisance.

"Sir," said Denis, with the grandest possible air, "I believe I am to have some say in the
matter of this marriage; and let me tell you at once, I will be no party to forcing the inclination
of this young lady. Had it been freely offered to me, I should have been proud to accept her
hand, for I perceive she is as good as she is beautiful; but as things are, I have now the
honour, messire, of refusing."

Blanche looked at him with gratitude in her eyes; but the old gentleman only smiled and smiled,
until his smile grew positively sickening to Denis.

"I am afraid," he said, "Monsieur de Beaulieu, that you do not perfectly understand the choice
I have to offer you. Follow me, I beseech you, to this window." And he led the way to one of
the large windows which stood open on the night. "You observe," he went on, "there is an iron
ring in the upper masonry, and reeved through that a very efficacious rope. Now, mark my words:
if you should find your disinclination to my niece's person insurmountable, I shall have you
hanged out of this window before sunrise. I shall only proceed to such an extremity with the
greatest regret, you may believe me. For it is not at all your death that I desire, but my
niece's establishment in life. At the same time, it must come to that if you prove obstinate.
Your family, Monsieur de Beaulieu, is very well in its way; but if you sprang from Charlemagne,
you should not refuse the hand of a Malétroit with impunity--not if she had been as common
as the Paris road--not if she were as hideous as the gargoyle over my door. Neither my niece
nor you, nor my own private feelings, move me at all in this matter. The honour of my house
has been compromised; I believe you to be the guilty person; at least you are now in the secret;
and you can hardly wonder if I request you to wipe out the stain. If you will not, your blood
be on your own head! It will be no great satisfaction to me to have your interesting relics
kicking their heels in the breeze below my windows; but half a loaf is better than no bread,
and if I cannot cure the dishonour, I shall at least stop the scandal."

There was a pause.

"I believe there are other ways of settling such imbroglios among gentlemen," said Denis. "You
wear a sword, and I hear you have used it with distinction."

The Sire de Malétroit made a signal to the chaplain, who crossed the room with long, silent
strides and raised the arras over the third of the three doors. It was only a moment before
he let it fall again; but Denis had time to see a dusky passage full of armed men.

"When I was a little younger, I should have been delighted to honour you, Monsieur de Beaulieu,"
said Sire Alain; "but I am now too old. Faithful retainers are the sinews of age, and I must
employ the strength I have. This is one of the hardest things to swallow as a man grows up
in years; but with a little patience, even this becomes habitual. You and the lady seem to
prefer the salle for what remains of your two hours; and as I have no desire to cross your
preference, I shall resign it to your use with all the pleasure in the world. No haste!" he
added, holding up his hand, as he saw a dangerous look come into Denis de Beaulieu's face.
"If your mind revolts against hanging, it will be time enough two hours hence to throw yourself
out of the window or upon the pikes of my retainers. Two hours of life are always two hours.
A great many things may turn up in even as little a while as that. And, besides, if I understand
her appearance, my niece has still something to say to you. You will not disfigure your last
hours by a want of politeness to a lady?"

Denis looked at Blanche, and she made him an imploring gesture.

It is likely that the old gentleman was hugely pleased at this symptom of an understanding;
for he smiled on both, and added sweetly: "If you will give me your word of honour, Monsieur
de Beaulieu, to await my return at the end of the two hours before attempting anything desperate,
I shall withdraw my retainers, and let you speak in greater privacy with mademoiselle."

Denis again glanced at the girl, who seemed to beseech him to agree.

"I give you my word of honour," he said.

Messire de Malétroit bowed, and proceeded to limp about the apartment, clearing his throat
the while with that odd musical chirp which had already grown so irritating in the ears of
Denis de Beaulieu. He first possessed himself of some papers which lay upon the table; then
he went to the mouth of the passage and appeared to give an order to the men behind the arras;
and lastly he hobbled out through the door by which Denis had come in, turning upon the threshold
to address a last smiling bow to the young couple, and followed by the chaplain with a hand-lamp.

No sooner were they alone than Blanche advanced towards Denis with her hands extended. Her
face was flushed and excited, and her eyes shone with tears.

"You shall not die!" she cried, "you shall marry me after all."

"You seem to think, madam," replied Denis, "that I stand much in fear of death."

"Oh, no, no," she said; "I see you are no poltroon. It is for my own sake--I could not bear
to have you slain for such a scruple."

"I am afraid," returned Denis, "that you underrate the difficulty, madam. What you may be too
generous to refuse, I may be too proud to accept. In a moment of noble feeling towards me,
you forget what you perhaps owe to others."

He had the decency to keep his eyes upon the floor as he said this, and after he had finished,
so as not to spy upon her confusion. She stood silent for a moment, then walked suddenly away,
and falling on her uncle's chair, fairly burst out sobbing. Denis was in the acme of embarrassment.
He looked round, as if to seek for inspiration, and seeing a stool, plumped down upon it for
something to do. There he sat, playing with the guard of his rapier, and wishing himself dead
a thousand times over, and buried in the nastiest kitchen-heap in France. His eyes wandered
round the apartment, but found nothing to arrest them. There were such wide spaces between
the furniture, the light fell so baldly and cheerlessly over all, the dark outside air looked
in so coldly through the windows, that he thought he had never seen a church so vast nor a
tomb so melancholy. The regular sobs of Blanche de Malétroit measured out the time like the
ticking of a clock. He read the device upon the shield over and over again, until his eyes
became obscured; he stared into shadowy corners until he imagined they were swarming with horrible
animals; and every now and again he awoke with a start, to remember that his last two hours
were running, and death was on the march.

Oftener and oftener, as the time went on, did his glance settle on the girl herself. Her face
was bowed forward and covered with her hands, and she was shaken at intervals by the convulsive
hiccup of grief. Even thus she was not an unpleasant object to dwell upon, so plump, and yet
so fine, with a warm brown skin, and the most beautiful hair, Denis thought, in the whole world
of womankind. Her hands were like her uncle's; but they were more in place at the end of her
young arms, and looked infinitely soft and caressing. He remembered how her blue eyes had shone
upon him full of anger, pity, and innocence. And the more he dwelt on her perfections, the
uglier death looked, and the more deeply was he smitten with penitence at her continued tears.
Now he felt that no man could have the courage to leave a world which contained so beautiful
a creature; and now he would have given forty minutes of his last hour to have unsaid his cruel
speech.

Suddenly a hoarse and ragged peal of cockcrow rose to their ears from the dark valley below
the windows. And this shattering noise in the silence of all around was like a light in a dark
place, and shook them both out of their reflections.

"Alas, can I do nothing to help you?" she said, looking up.

"Madam," replied Denis, with a fine irrelevancy, "if I have said anything to wound you, believe
me it was for your own sake and not for mine."

She thanked him with a tearful look.

"I feel your position cruelly," he went on. "The world has been bitter hard on you. Your uncle
is a disgrace to mankind. Believe me, madam, there is no young gentleman in all France but
would be glad of my opportunity, to die in doing you a momentary service."

"I know already that you can be very brave and generous," she answered. "What I want to know
is whether I can serve you--now or afterwards," she added, with a quaver.

"Most certainly," he answered, with a smile. "Let me sit beside you as if I were a friend,
instead of a foolish intruder; try to forget how awkwardly we are placed to one another; make
my last moments go pleasantly; and you will do me the chief service possible."

"You are very gallant," she added, with a yet deeper sadness; "very gallant----and it somehow
pains me. But draw nearer, if you please; and if you find anything to say to me, you will at
least make certain of a very friendly listener. Ah! Monsieur de Beaulieu," she broke forth--"ah!
Monsieur de Beaulieu, how can I look you in the face?" And she fell to weeping again with a
renewed effusion.

"Madam," said Denis, taking her hand in both of his, "reflect on the little time I have before
me, and the great bitterness into which I am cast by the sight of your distress. Spare me,
in my last moments, the spectacle of what I cannot cure even with the sacrifice of my life."

"I am very selfish," answered Blanche. "I will be braver, Monsieur de Beaulieu, for your sake.
But think if I can do you no kindness in the future--if you have no friends to whom I could
carry your adieux. Charge me as heavily as you can: every burden will lighten, by so little,
the invaluable gratitude I owe you. Put it in my power to do something more for you than weep."

"My mother is married again, and has a young family to care for. My brother Guichard will inherit
my fiefs: and if I am not in error, that will content him amply for my death. Life is a little
vapour that passeth away, as we are told by those in holy orders. When a man is in a fair way
and sees all life open in front of him, he seems to himself to make a very important figure
in the world. His horse whinnies to him; the trumpets blow and the girls look out of window
as he rides into town before his company; he receives many assurances of trust and regard--sometimes
by express in a letter--sometimes face to face, with persons of great consequence falling on
his neck. It is not wonderful if his head is turned for a time. But once he is dead, were he
as brave as Hercules or as wise as Solomon, he is soon forgotten. It is not ten years since
my father fell, with many other knights around him, in a very fierce encounter, and I do not
think that any one of them, nor so much as the name of the fight, is now remembered. No, no,
madam, the nearer you come to it, you see that death is a dark and dusty corner, where a man
gets into his tomb and has the door shut after him till the judgment-day. I have few friends
just now, and once I am dead I shall have none."

"Ah, Monsieur de Beaulieu!" she exclaimed, "you forget Blanche de Malétroit."

"You have a sweet nature, madam, and you are pleased to estimate a little service far beyond
its worth."

"It is not that," she answered. "You mistake me if you think I am so easily touched by my own
concerns. I say so, because you are the noblest man I have ever met; because I recognise in
you a spirit that would have made even a common person famous in the land."

"And yet here I die in a mousetrap--with no more noise about it than my own squeaking," answered
he.

A look of pain crossed her face, and she was silent for a little while. Then a light came into
her eyes, and with a smile she spoke again.

"I cannot have my champion think meanly of himself. Any one who gives his life for another
will be met in Paradise by all the heralds and angels of the Lord God. And you have no cause
to hang your head. For----Pray, do you think me beautiful?" she asked, with a deep flush.

"Indeed, madam, I do," he said.

"I am glad of that," she answered heartily. "Do you think there are many men in France who
have been asked in marriage by a beautiful maiden--with her own lips--and who have refused
her to her face? I know you men would half-despise such a triumph; but believe me, we women
know more of what is precious in love. There is nothing that should set a person higher in
his own esteem; and we women would prize nothing more dearly."

"You are very good," he said; "but you cannot make me forget that I was asked in pity and not
for love."

"I am not so sure of that," she replied, holding down her head. "Hear me to an end, Monsieur
de Beaulieu. I know how you must despise me; I feel you are right to do so; I am too poor a
creature to occupy one thought of your mind, although, alas! you must die for me this morning.
But when I asked you to marry me, indeed, and indeed, it was because I respected and admired
you, and loved you with my whole soul, from the very moment that you took my part against my
uncle. If you had seen yourself, and how noble you looked, you would pity rather than despise
me. And now," she went on, hurriedly checking him with her hand, "although I have laid aside
all reserve and told you so much, remember that I know your sentiments towards me already.
I would not, believe me, being nobly born, weary you with importunities into consent. I too
have a pride of my own: and I declare before the holy Mother of God, if you should now go back
from your word already given, I would no more marry you than I would marry my uncle's groom."

Denis smiled a little bitterly.

"It is a small love," he said, "that shies at a little pride."

She made no answer, although she probably had her own thoughts.

"Come hither to the window," he said, with a sigh. "Here is the dawn."

And indeed the dawn was already beginning. The hollow of the sky was full of essential daylight,
colourless and clean; and the valley underneath was flooded with a grey reflection. A few thin
vapours clung in the coves of the forest or lay along the winding course of the river. The
scene disengaged a surprising effect of stillness, which was hardly interrupted when the cocks
began once more to crow among the steadings. Perhaps the same fellow who had made so horrid
a clangour in the darkness not half an hour before now sent up the merriest cheer to greet
the coming day. A little wind went bustling and eddying among the tree-tops underneath the
windows. And still the daylight kept flooding insensibly out of the east, which was soon to
grow incandescent and cast up that red-hot cannon-ball, the rising sun.

Denis looked out over all this with a bit of a shiver. He had taken her hand, and retained
it in his almost unconsciously.

"Has the day begun already?" she said; and then, illogically enough: "the night has been so
long! Alas! what shall we say to my uncle when he returns?"

"What you will," said Denis, and he pressed her fingers in his.

She was silent.

"Blanche," he said, with a swift, uncertain, passionate utterance, "you have seen whether I
fear death. You must know well enough that I would as gladly leap out of that window into the
empty air as lay a finger on you without your free and full consent. But if you care for me
at all do not let me lose my life in a misapprehension; for I love you better than the whole
world; and though I will die for you blithely, it would be like all the joys of Paradise to
live on and spend my life in your service."

As he stopped speaking, a bell began to ring loudly in the interior of the house; and a clatter
of armour in the corridor showed that the retainers were returning to their post, and the two
hours were at an end.

"After all that you have heard?" she whispered, leaning towards him with her lips and eyes.

"I have heard nothing," he replied.

"The captain's name was Florimond de Champdivers," she said in his ear.

"I did not hear it," he answered, taking her supple body in his arms and covered her wet face
with kisses.

