Twm Sion Catti (Vol. i., p. 456.).--Seleucus observes that Twm Catti flourished between the
years 1590 and 1630.

I have seen the original pardon, under the great seal, countersigned Vaughan, and bearing date
15th Jan., 1st of Elizabeth (1559).

The pardon extends to--

    "Thome Johns, alias Cattye, nuper de Tregaen in Com. Cardigan,
    Genº., alias dict. Thome Johns, alias Catty ae Tregaem, in Com.
    Cardigan, Generoso, alias dict. Thome Jones, alias Catty, Gent.,
    sen quocunque alio nomine vel cognomine seu additione hominis
    cognitionis dignitatis, officii sen losi idem Thomas cognatur,
    vocetur seu nuncupetur," &c. &c.; and includes "omnia escapia et
    cautiones."

I have written the extract without all the contractions in the original.

J.M.T.

May 21. 1850.

Christian Captives (Vol. i., p. 441.).--R.W.B. may probably obtain valuable information from
the trustees of Lady Mico's Charity. See Attorney-General v. Gibson, 2 Beavan, 317. (n.)

A note on that case may not be uninteresting, as showing the vast increase of a fund originally
small.

Lady Mico, in 1670, gave 1000l. to redeem poor slaves. In 1686 this fund was laid out in the
purchase of land.

In 1827 an information was filed against Mr. Gibson and others and at that time the rental
of the purchased land amounted to something like 3000l. a year, and the trustees had accumulated
upwards of 115,000l. Consols.

Trustees were appointed in 1834, and their office is No. 20. Buckingham Street, Strand. The
funds are applied towards the education of our emancipated slaves. Q.D.

Cannibals.--Your correspondent W. (Vol. i., p. 186.) will field the origin of this word in
Stillingfleet's Origines Sacrae, Part II. Book i. c. i., where there are traced the gradations
observed by travellers in the savagery of the several natives of America. Has it been recorded
of any people in Europe, Asia, or Africa, that they were addicted to the practice of scalping? T.J.

Symbols of the four Evangelists.--The misappropriation of the four faces of the cherubim, originally
designed to shadow forth the incarnate Deity, to the four evangelists, with whom these emblematic
representations are still, as anciently, associated in architectural decorations and heraldic
bearings, appear to have originated, among the early Christians, in the reverence with which
they regarded the four gospels. JARLZBERG (Vol. i., p. 385.) explains why the lion is assigned
to St. Mark, and desires to know the reasons assigned for the three other Evangelists' emblems.

    "Aquila", says Aringhi, "dignissimum ilium ac lynceum in
    arcanarum rerum ac mysteriorum sublimitate speculatorem, Joannem
    Evangelistam sublimi velocium pennarum symbolo portendit."

The ox, according to the same author, has been assigned as well to St. Matthew as to St. Luke,
as all laborious ministers of the gospel are aptly represented by the "animal natum tolerare
labores."

T.J.

Turkish Spy (Vol. i., p.334).--In the Gent. Mag. for March last, it is well observed that "It
is a great fault in an historical writer not to be well read in Sylvanus Urban." The remark
will apply to your inquirer concerning these celebrated letters, and indeed, to many others
who devote much labour in exploring the contents of MSS., without being aware of what lies
on the surface of literature. The late D'Israeli is a striking instance of this art of discovering
in an old MS. what had been long known in print.

