They showed us the way to the meson[16] and there we left Antonio with the horses, while the
proprietor sent an idiot boy to show us the way to the convent, for our inspection of the meson
decided us at once on seeking the hospitality of the monks for the night. We climbed up the
hill, went in at the convent-gate, across a courtyard, along a dim cloister, and through another
door where our guide made his way out by a different opening, leaving us standing in total
darkness. After a time another door opened, and a good-natured-looking friar came in with a
lamp in his hand, and conducted us upstairs to his cell. I think our friend was the sub-prior
of the convent. His cell was a very comfortable bachelor's apartment, in a plain way, vaulted
and whitewashed, with good chairs and a table and a very comfortable-looking bed.

We sat talking with him for a long while, and heard that the fair next day would be attended
by numbers of Indians from remote places among the mountains, and that at noon there would
be an Indian dance in the church. It is not the great festival, however, he said. That is once
a year; and then the Indians come from fifty miles round, and stay here several days, living
in the caves in the rock just by the town, buying and selling in the fair, attending mass,
and having solemn dances in the church. We asked him about the ill feeling between the Indians
and the whites. He said that among the planters it might be as we said, but that in the neighbourhood
of his convent the respect and affection of the Indians for the clergy, whether white or Indian,
was as great as ever. Then we gossipped about horses, of which our friend was evidently an
amateur, and when the conversation flagged, he turned to the table in the middle of the room
and handed us little bowls made of calabashes, prettily decorated and carved, and full of sweetmeats.
There were ten or twelve of these little bowls on the table, each with a different kind of
"tuck" in it. We inquired where all those good things came from, and learnt that making them
was one of the favourite occupations of the Mexican nuns, who keep their brethren in the monasteries
well supplied. At last the good monk went away to his duties and left us, when I could not
resist the temptation of having a look at the little books in blue and green paper covers which
were lying on the table with the sweetmeat-bowls and the venerable old missal. They proved
to be all French novels done into Spanish, and "Notre-Dame de Paris" was lying open (under
a sheet of paper); so I conclude that our visit had interrupted the sub-prior while deep in
that improving work.

Presently a monk came to conduct us down into the refectory, and there they gave us an uncommonly
good supper of wonderful Mexican stews, red-hot as usual, and plenty of good Spanish wine withal.
The great dignitaries of the cloister did not appear, but some fifteen or twenty monks were
at table with us, and never tired of questioning us--exactly in the same fashion that the ladies
of the harem questioned Doña Juana. We delighted them with stories of the miraculous Easter
fire at Jerusalem, and the illumination of St. Peter's, of the Sistine chapel and the Pope,
and we parted for the night in high good humour.

Next morning a monk attached himself to us as our cicerone, a fine young fellow with a handsome
face, and no end of fun in him.

Now that we saw the convent by daylight, we were delighted with the beauty of its situation.
The broad fertile valley grows narrower and narrower until it becomes a gorge in the mountains;
and here the convent is built, with the mountain-stream running through its beautiful gardens,
and turning the wheel of the convent-mill before it flows on into the plain to fertilize the
broad lands of the reverend fathers.

When we had visited the gardens and the stables, our young monk brought us back to the great
church of the convent, where we took our places near the monks, who had mustered in full force
to be present at the dancing. Presently the music arrived, an old man with a harp, and a woman
with a violin; and then came the dancers, eight Indian boys with short tunics and head-dresses
of feathers, and as many girls with white dresses, and garlands of flowers on their heads.
The costumes were evidently intended to represent the Indian dresses of the days of Montezuma,
but they were rather modernized by the necessity of wearing various articles of dress which
would have been superfluous in old times. They stationed themselves in the middle of the church,
opposite the high altar, and, to our unspeakable astonishment, began to dance the polka. Then
came a waltz, then a schottisch, then another waltz, and finally a quadrille, set to unmitigated
English tunes. They danced exceedingly well, and behaved as though they had been used to European
ball-rooms all their lives. The spectators looked on as though it were all a matter of course
for these brown-skinned boys and girls to have acquired so singular an accomplishment in their
out-of-the-way village among the mountains. As for us we looked on in open-mouthed astonishment;
and when, in the middle of the quadrille, the harp and violin struck up no less a tune than
"The King of the Cannibal Islands," we could hardly help bursting out into fits of laughter.
We restrained ourselves, however, and kept as grave a countenance as the rest of the lookers-on,
who had not the faintest idea that anything odd was happening. The quadrille finished in perfect
order; each dancer took his partner by the hand and led her forward; and so, forming a line
in front of the high altar, they all knelt down, and the rest of the congregation followed
their example; there was a dead silence in the church for about the space of an Ave Maria,
then everyone rose, and the ceremony was over.[17]

Our young monk asked permission of his superior to take us out for a walk, and we went down
together to the convent-mill. There we saw the mill, which was primitive, and the miller, who
was burly; and also something much more worth seeing, at least to our young acquaintance, who
tucked up his skirts and ran briskly up a ladder into the upper regions, calling to us to follow
him. A door led from the granary into the miller's house, and the miller's daughter happened,
of course entirely by chance, to be coming through that way. A very pretty girl she was too,
and I never in my life saw anything more intensely comic than the looks of intelligence that
passed between her and the young friar when he presented us. It was decidedly contrary to good
monastic discipline it is true, and we ought to have been shocked, but it was so intolerably
laughable that my companion bolted into the granary to examine the wheat, and I took refuge
in a violent fit of coughing. Our nerves had been already rudely shaken by the King of the
Cannibal Islands, and this little scene of convent-life fairly finished us.

We asked our young friend what his day's work consisted of, and how he liked convent-life.
He yawned, and intimated that it was very slow. We enquired whether the monks had not some
parochial duties to perform, such as visiting the sick and the poor in their neighbourhood.
He evidently wondered whether we were really ignorant, or whether we were "chaffing" him, and
observed that that was no business of their's, the curas of the villages did all that sort
of thing. "Then, what have you to do?" we said. "Well," he said, "there are so many services
every day, and high mass on Sundays and holidays; and besides that, there's--well, there isn't
anything particular. It's rather a dull life. I myself should like uncommonly to go and travel
and see the world, or go and fight somewhere." We were quite sorry for the young fellow when
we shook hands with him at parting, and he left us to go back to his convent.

We had been clambering about the hill, seeing the caves with which it is honeycombed, but at
present they were uninhabited. At the time of the great festival, when they are full of Indian
families, the scene must be a curious one.

The monks had hospitably pressed us to stay till their mid-day meal, but we preferred having
it at the shop down in the village, so as to start directly afterwards. Here the people gave
us a regular reception, entertained us with their best, and could not be prevailed upon to
accept any payment whatever. The proprietor of the meson sat down before the barley-bin which
served him for a desk, and indited a long and eloquent letter of introduction for us to a friend
of his in Oculan, who was to find a night's lodging for us. Before he sealed up the despatch
he read it to us in a loud voice, sentence by sentence. It might have been an autograph letter
from King Philip to some foreign potentate. Armed with this important missive, we mounted our
horses, shook hands with no end of well-wishers, and rode off up the valley.

For a little while our path lay through a sort of suburb of Chalma, houses lying near one another,
each surrounded by a pleasant garden, and both houses and people looking prosperous and cheerful.
Our directions for finding the way were simple enough. We were to go up the valley past the
Cerra de los Atambores, "the hill of drums," and the great ahuehuete. What the Cerra de los
Atambores might be, we could not tell, but when we had followed the valley for an hour or so,
it came into view. On the other side of the stream rose a precipitous cliff, several hundred
feet high, and near the top a perpendicular wall of rock was carved with rude designs. People
have supposed, it seems, that these carvings represented drums, and hence the name.

Had we known of the place before, we should have made an effort to explore it, and copy the
sculptured designs; but now it was too late, and from the other side of the valley we could
not make out more than that there seemed to be a figure of the sun among them.

A little further on we came to the "Ahuehuete." The name means a deciduous cypress, a common
tree in Mexico, and of which we had already seen such splendid specimens in the grove near
Tezcuco, and in the wood of Chapoltepec. This was a remarkable tree as to size, some sixty
feet round at the lower part where the roots began to spread out. A copious spring of water
rose within the hollow trunk itself, and ran down between the roots into the little river.
In Brittany the peasants still keep up the custom of hanging up locks of their hair in certain
chapels, to charm away diseases; and there it is certain that the Christians only appropriated
to their own worship places already held sacred in the estimation of the people.

Oculan is a dismal little place. We found the great man of the village standing at his door,
but our letter to him was dishonoured in the most decided manner. He read the epistle, carefully
folded it up and pocketed it, then pointed in the direction of two or three houses on the other
side of the way, and saying he supposed we might get a lodging over there, he wished us good-day
and retired into his own premises. The landlord of "over there" was very civil. He had a shed
for the horses, and could give us palm-mats to sleep upon on the floor, or on the shop-counter,
which was very narrow, but long enough for us both; and this latter alternative we chose.

We walked up to the top of a hill close by the village, and were surveying the country from
thence, keeping a sharp look-out all the while for Mexican remains in the furrows. For a wonder,
we found nothing but some broken spindle-heads; but, while we were thus occupied, two Indians
suddenly made their appearance, each with his machete in his hands, and wanted to know what
we were doing on their land. We pacified them by politeness and a cigar apiece, but we were
still evidently objects of suspicion, and they were quite relieved to see us return to the
village. There, an old woman cooked us hard-boiled eggs and tortillas, and then we went tranquilly
to bed on our counter, with our saddles for pillows, and our serapes for bed-clothes.

All the way from Cocoyotla our height above the sea had been gradually increasing; and soon
after we started from Oculan next morning, we came to the foot of one of the grand passes that
lead up into the high lands, where the road mounts by zig-zag turns through a splendid forest
of pines and oaks, and at the top of the ascent we were in a broad fertile plain as high or
higher than the valley of Mexico. It was like England to ride between large fields of wheat
and barley, and to pick blackberries in the hedges. It was only April, and yet the grain was
almost ready for the sickle, and the blackberries were fully ripe. Fresh green grass was growing
in the woods under the oak-trees, and the banks were covered with Alpine strawberries.

We are in the great grain-district of the Republic. Wheat is grown for the supply of the large
towns, and barley for the horses. Green barley is the favourite fodder for the horses in the
Mexican highlands, and in the hotter districts the leaves of young Indian corn. Oats are to
be seen growing by chance among other grain, but they are never cultivated. Though wheat is
so much grown upon the plains, it is not because the soil and climate are more favourable than
elsewhere for such culture. In the plains of Toluca and Tenancingo the yield of wheat is less
than the average of the Republic, which is from 25- to 30-fold, and in the cloudy valleys we
passed through near Orizaba it is much greater. Labour is tolerably cheap and plentiful here,
however; and then each large town must draw its supplies of grain from the neighbouring districts,
for, in a country where it pays to carry goods on mules' backs, it is clear that grain cannot
be carried far to market.

In the question of the population of Mexico, one begins to speculate why--in a country with
a splendid climate, a fertile soil, and almost unlimited space to spread in, the inhabitants
do not increase one-half so fast as in England, and about one-sixth as fast as their neighbours
of the United States. One of the most important causes which tend to bring about this state
of things is the impossibility of conveying grain to any distance, except by doubling and trebling
its price. The disastrous effects of a failure of the crop in one district cannot be remedied
by a plentiful harvest fifty miles off; for the peasants, already ruined by the loss of their
own harvest, can find neither money nor credit to buy food brought from a distance at so great
an expense. Next year may be fruitful again, but numbers die in the interval, and the constitutions
of a great proportion of the children never recover the effects of that one year's famine.

We left the regular road and struck up still higher into the hills, riding amongst winding
roads with forest above and below us, and great orchids of the most brilliant colours, blue,
white, and crimson, shining among the branches of the oak-trees. The boughs were often breaking
down with the bulbs of such epiphytes; but as yet it was early in the season, and only here
and there one was in flower. At the top of the hill, still in the midst of the woods, is the
Desierto, "the desert," the place we had selected for our noon-day halt. There are many of
these Desiertos in Mexico, founded by rich people in old times. They are a kind of convent,
with some few resident ecclesiastics, and numbers of cells for laymen who retire for a time
into this secluded place and are received gratuitously. They spend a week or two in prayer
and fasting, then confess themselves, receive the sacrament, and return into the world. The
situation of this quiet place was well chosen in the midst of the forest, and once upon a time
the cells used to be full of penitents; but now we saw no one but the old porter, as we walked
about the gardens and explored the quadrangle and the rows of cells, each with a hideous little
wood-cut of a martyr being tortured, upon the door.

Thence we rode down into the plain, looking down, as we descended, upon a hill which seemed
to be an old crater, rising from the level ground; and then our path lay among broad fields
where oxen were ploughing, and across marshes covered with coarse grass, until we came to the
quaint little town of Tenancingo. There we found the meson; and the landlord handed us the
key of our room, which was square, whitewashed, and with a tiled floor. There was no window,
so we had to keep the door open for light. The furniture consisted of three articles,--two
low tables on four legs, made of rough planks, and a bracket to stick a candle in. The tables
were beds after the manner of the country; but, as a special attention to us, the patron produced
two old mattresses; the first sight of them was enough for us, and we expelled them with shouts
of execration. We had to go to a shop in the square to get some supper; and on our return,
about nine o'clock, our man Antonio remarked that he was going to sleep, which he did at once
in the following manner. He took off his broad-brimmed hat and hung it on a nail, tied a red
cotton handkerchief round his head, rolled himself up in his serape, lay down on the flags
in the courtyard outside our door, and was asleep in an instant. We retired to our planks inside
and followed his example.

The next afternoon we reached Toluca, a large and prosperous town, but with little noticeable
in it except the arcades (portales) along the streets, and the hams which are cured with sugar,
and are famous all over the Republic. Our road passed near the Nevado de Toluca, an extinct
snow-covered volcano, nearly 15,000 feet above the sea. It consists entirely of grey and red
porphyry, and in the interior of its crater are two small lakes. We were not sorry to take
up our quarters in a comfortable European-looking hotel again, for roughing it is much less
pleasant in these high altitudes--where the nights and mornings are bitterly cold--than in
the hotter climate of the lower levels.

Our next day's ride brought us back to Mexico, crossing the corn-land of the plain of Lerma,
where the soil consists of disintegrated porphyry from the mountains around, and is very fertile.
Lerma itself is the worst den of robbers in all Mexico; and, as we rode through the street
of dingy adobe houses, and saw the rascally-looking fellows who were standing at the doors
in knots, with their horses ready saddled and bridled close by, we got a very strong impression
that the reputation of the place was no worse than it deserved. After Lerma, there still remained
the pass over the mountains which border the valley of Mexico; and here in the midst of a dense
pine-forest is Las Cruzes, "the crosses," a place with an ugly name, where several robberies
are done every week. We waited for the Diligence at some little glass-works at the entrance
of the pass, and then let it go on first, as a sop to those gentlemen if they should be out
that day. I suppose they knew pretty accurately that no one had much to lose, for they never
made their appearance.

CHAPTER IX.

ANTIQUITIES. PRISON. SPORTS.

It was like getting home again to reach Mexico, we had so many friends there, though our stay
had been so short. We were fully occupied, for weeks of hard sight-seeing are hardly enough
to investigate the objects of interest to be found in the city. We saw these things under the
best auspices, for Mr. Christy had letters to the Minister of Public Instruction and other
people in authority, who were exceedingly civil, and did all they could to put us in the way
of seeing everything we wished. Among the places we visited, the Museum must have some notice.
It is in part of the building of the University; but we were rather surprised, when we reached
the gate leading into the court-yard, to be stopped by a sentry who demanded what we wanted.
The lower storey had been turned into a barrack by the Government, there being a want of quarters
for the soldiers. As the ground-floor under the cloisters is used for the heavier pieces of
sculpture, the scene was somewhat curious. The soldiers had laid several of the smaller idols
down on their faces, and were sitting on the comfortable seat on the small of their backs,
busy playing at cards. An enterprising soldier had built up a hutch with idols and sculptured
stones against the statue of the great war-goddess Teoyaomiqui herself, and kept rabbits there.
The state which the whole place was in when thus left to the tender mercies of a Mexican regiment
may be imagined by any one who knows what a dirty and destructive animal a Mexican soldier is.

The guardians of the Museum have treated it even worse. People who know how often the curators
of the Museums of southern Europe are ready to sell anything not very likely to be missed will
not be astonished to hear of the same thing being done to a great extent some six or eight
years before our visit.

The stone known as the statue of the war-goddess is a huge block of basalt covered with sculptures.
The antiquaries think that the figures on it stand for different personages, and that it is
three gods,--Huitzilopochtli the god of war, Teoyaomiqui his wife, and Mictlanteuctli the god
of hell. It has necklaces of alternate hearts and dead man's hands, with death's heads for
a central ornament. At the bottom of the block is a strange sprawling figure, which one cannot
see now, for it is the base which rests on the ground; but there are two shoulders projecting
from the idol, which show plainly that it did not stand on the ground, but was supported aloft
on the tops of two pillars. The figure carved upon the bottom represents a monster holding
a skull in each hand, while others hang from his knees and elbows. His mouth is a mere oval
ring, a common feature of Mexican idols, and four tusks project just above it. The new moon
laid down like a bridge forms his forehead, and a star is placed on each side of it. This is
thought to have been the conventional representation of Mictlanteuctli (Lord of the Land of
the Dead), the god of hell, which was a place of utter and eternal darkness. Probably each
victim as he was led to the altar could look up between the two pillars and see the hideous
god of hell staring down upon him from above.

There is little doubt that this is the famous war-idol which stood on the great teocalli of
Mexico, and before which so many thousands of human victims were sacrificed. It lay undisturbed
underground in the great square, close to the very site of the teocalli, until sixty years
ago. For many years after that it was kept buried, lest the sight of one of their old deities
might be too exciting for the Indians, who, as I have mentioned before, had certainly not forgotten
it, and secretly ornamented it with garlands of flowers while it remained above ground.

The "sacrificial stone," so called, which also stands in the court-yard of the Museum, was
not one of the ordinary altars on which victims were sacrificed. These altars seem to have
been raised slabs of hard stone with a protuberant part near one end, so that the breast of
the victim was raised into an arch, which made it more easy for the priest to cut across it
with his obsidian knife. The Breton altars, where the slab was hollowed into the outline of
a human figure, have some analogy to this; but, though there were very many of these altars
in different cities of Mexico, none are now known to exist. The stone we are now observing
is quite a different thing, a cylindrical block of basalt nine feet across and three feet high:
and Humboldt considers it to be the stone described by early Spanish writers, and called temalacatl
(spindle-stone) from its circular shape, something like a distaff-head. Upon this the captive
chiefs stood in the gladiatorial fights which took place within the space surrounding the great
teocalli. Slightly armed, they stood upon this raised platform in the midst of the crowd of
spectators; and six champions in succession, armed with better weapons, came up to fight with
them. If the captive worsted his assailants in this unequal contest, he was set free with presents;
but this success was the lot of but few, and the fate of most was to be overpowered and dragged
off ignominiously to be sacrificed like ordinary prisoners. On the top of the stone is sculptured
an outline of the sun with its eight rays, and a hollow in the centre, whence a groove runs
to the edge of the stone, probably to let the blood run down. All round it is an appropriate
bas-relief repeated several times. A vanquished warrior is giving up his stone-sword and his
spears to his conqueror, who is tearing the plumed crest from his head.

The above explanation by Humboldt is a plausible one. But in Central America altars not unlike
this, and with grooves upon the top, stand in front of the great stone idols; and this curious
monument may have been nothing after all but an ordinary altar to sacrifice birds and small
animals upon.

Señor Leon Ramirez, the curator, had come to the Museum to meet us, and we went over the collection
of smaller objects, which are kept up stairs in glass-cases,--at any rate out of the way of
the soldiers.

Here are the stone clamps shaped like the letter U, which were put over the wrists and ankles
of the victims, to hold them down on the sacrificial stone. They are of hard stone, very heavy
and covered with carvings. It is remarkable that, though the altars for human sacrifices are
no longer to be found, these accessory stone clamps, or yoke-like collars, are not uncommon.
A fine one from Mr. Christy's collection is figured. (See opposite page.)

The obsidian knives and arrow-heads are very good, but these I have spoken of already, as well
as of the stone hammers. The axes and chisels of stone are so exactly like those found in Europe
that it is quite impossible to distinguish them. The bronze hatchet-blades are thin and flat,
slightly thickened at the sides to give them strength, and mostly of a very peculiar shape,
something like a T, but still more resembling the section of a mushroom cut vertically through
the middle of the stalk.

The obsidian mask is an extraordinary piece of work, considering the difficulty of cutting
such a material. It was chipped into a rude outline, and finished into its exact shape by polishing
down with jeweller's sand. The polish is perfect, and there is hardly a scratch upon it. At
least one of the old Spanish writers on Mexico gives the details of the process of cutting
precious stones and polishing them with teoxalli or "god's sand." Masks in stone, wood, and
terra-cotta are to be seen in considerable number in museums of Mexican antiquities. Their
use is explained by passages in the old Mexican writers, who mention that it was customary
to mask the idols on the occasion of the king being sick, or of any other public calamity;
and that men and women wore masks in some of the religious ceremonies. A fine mask of brown
lava (from Mr. Christy's collection), which has been coloured, is here figured. (See illustration.)
The mirrors of obsidian have the same beautifully polished surface as the obsidian mask shows;
and those made of nodules of pyrites, cut and polished, are worth notice.

The Mexicans were very skilful in making pottery; and of course there is a good collection
here of terra-cotta vases, little altars and incense-dishes, rattles, flageolets, and whistles,
tobacco-pipes and masks. Some of the large vases, which were formerly filled with skulls and
bones, are admirable in their designs and decorations; and many specimens are to be seen of
the red and black ware of Cholula, which was famous at the time of the Conquest, and was sent
to all parts of the country. The art of glazing pottery seems only to have been introduced
by the Spaniards, and to this day the Indians hardly care to use it. The terra-cotta rattles
are very characteristic. They have little balls in them which shake about, and they puzzled
us much as the apple-dumpling did good King George, for we could not make out very easily how
the balls got inside. They were probably attached very slightly to the inside, and so baked
and then broken loose. We often got little balls like schoolboys' marbles, among lots of Mexican
antiquities, and these were most likely the balls out of broken rattles.

Burning incense was always an important part of the Mexican ceremonies. When the white men
were on their march to the capital, the inhabitants used to come out to meet them with such
plates as we saw here, and burn copal before the leaders; and in Indian villages to this day
the procession on saints' days would not be complete without men burning incense, not in regular
censers, but in unglazed earthen platters such as their forefathers used.

Our word copal is the Mexican copalli. There are a few other Mexican words which have been
naturalized in our European languages, of course indicating that the things they represent
came from Mexico. Ocelotl is ocelot; Tomatl is tomata; Chilli is the Spanish chile and our
chili; Cacahuatl is cacao or cocoa; and Chocolatl, the beverage made from the cacao-bean with
a mixture of vanilla, is our chocolate.

Cacao-beans were used by the Mexicans as money. Even in Humboldt's time, when there was no
copper coinage, they were used as small change, six for a halfpenny; and Stephens says the
Central Americans use them to this day. A mat in Mexican is petlatl, and thence a basket made
of matting was called petlacalli--"mathouse." The name passed to the plaited grass cigar-cases
that are exported to Europe; and now in Spain any kind of cigar-case is called a petaca.

The pretty little ornamented calabashes--used, among other purposes, for drinking chocolate
out of--were called by the Mexicans xicalli, a word which the Spaniards made into jícara, and
now use to mean a chocolate-cup; and even the Italians have taken to it, and call a tea-cup
a chicchera.

There is a well-known West Indian fruit which we call an avocado or alligator-pear, and which
the French call avocat and the Spaniards aguacate. All these names are corruptions of the Aztec
name of the fruit, ahuacatl.

Vanilla and cochineal were first found in Mexico; but the Spaniards did not adopt the unpronounceable
native names, tlilxochitl and nocheztli. Vanilla, vainilla, means a little bean, from vaina,
which signifies a scabbard or sheath, also a pod. Cochinilla is from coccus, a berry, as it
was at first supposed to be of vegetable origin. The Aztec name for cochineal, nocheztli, means
"cactus-blood," and is a very apt description of the insect, which has in it a drop of deep
crimson fluid, in which the colouring matter of the dye is contained.

The turkey, which was introduced into Europe from Mexico, was called huexolotl from the gobbling
noise it makes. (It must be remembered that x and j in Spanish are not the same letters as
in English, but a hard guttural aspirate, like the German ch). The name, slightly altered into
guajalote, is still used in Mexico; but when these birds were brought to Europe, the Spaniards
called them peacocks (pavos). To get rid of the confusion, it became necessary to call the
real peacock "pavón" (big peacock), or "pavo real" (royal peacock). The German name for a turkey,
"Wälscher Hahn," "Italian fowl," is reasonable, for the Germans got them from Italy; but our
name "turkey" is wonderfully absurd.

There may be other Mexican words to be found in our language, but not many. The Mexicans were
cultivating maize and tobacco when the Spaniards invaded the country, and had done so for ages;
but these vegetables had been found already in the West India islands, and had got their name
from the language of Hayti, mahiz and tabaco; the latter word, it seems, meaning not the tobacco
itself, but the cigars made of it.

I do not recollect anything else worthy of note that Europe has borrowed from Ancient Mexico,
except Botanic Gardens, and dishes made to keep hot at dinner-time, which the Aztecs managed
by having a pan of burning charcoal underneath them.

To return to the Museum. There are stamps in terra-cotta with geometrical patterns, for making
lines and ornaments on the vases before they were baked, and for stamping patterns upon the
cotton cloth which was one of their principal manufactures, as it is now. Connected with the
same art are the malacates, or winders, which I have already described. Little grotesque heads
made of baked clay, like those I have mentioned as being found in such immense numbers on the
sites of old Mexican cities, are here by hundreds. I think there were, besides, some of the
moulds, also in terra-cotta, in which they were formed; at any rate, they are to be seen, so
that making the little heads must have been a regular trade. What they were for is not so easy
to say. Some have bodies, and are made with flat backs to stand against a wall, and these were
probably idols. The ancient Mexicans, we read, had household-gods in great numbers, and called
them Tepitotons, "little ones." The greatest proportion, however, are mere heads which never
had had bodies, and will not stand anyhow. They could not have been personal ornaments, for
there is nothing to fasten them on by. They are rather a puzzle. I have seen a suggestion somewhere,
that when a man was buried, each surviving member of his family put one of these heads into
his grave. This sounds plausible enough, especially as both male and female heads are found.

One shelf in the museum is particularly instructive. We called it the "Chamber of Horrors,"
after the manner of Marlborough House, and it contains numbers of the sham antiquities, the
manufacture of which is a regular thing in Mexico, as it is in Italy. They are principally
vases and idols of earthenware, for the art of working obsidian is lost, and there can be no
trickery about that[18]; and as to the hammers, chisels, and idols in green jade, serpentine,
and such like hard materials, they are decidedly cheaper to find than to make. The Indians
in Mexico make their unglazed pottery just as they did before the Conquest, so that, if they
imitate real antiques exactly, there is no possibility of detecting the fraud; but when they
begin to work from their own designs, or even to copy from memory, they are almost sure to
put in something that betrays them.

As soon as the Spaniards came, they began to introduce drawing as it was understood in Europe;
and from that moment the peculiarities of Mexican art began to disappear. The foreheads of
the Mexican races are all very low, and their painters and sculptors even exaggerated this
peculiarity, to make the faces they depicted more beautiful,--so producing an effect which
to us Europeans seems hideously ugly, but which is not more unnatural than the ideal type of
beauty we see in the Greek statues. After the era of the Spaniards we see no more of such foreheads;
and the eyes, which were drawn in profiles as one sees them in the full face, are put in their
natural position. The short squat figures become slim and tall; and in numberless little details
of dress, modelling, and ornament, the acquaintance of the artist with European types is shown;
and it is very seldom that the modern counterfeiter can keep clear of these and get back to
the old standard.

Among the things on the condemned shelf were men's faces too correctly drawn to be genuine,
grotesque animals that no artist would ever have designed who had not seen a horse, head-dresses
and drapery that were European and not Mexican. Among the figures in Mayer's Mexico, a vase
is represented as a real antique, which, I think, is one of the worst cases I ever noticed.
There is a man's head upon it, with long projecting pointed nose and chin, a long thin pendant
moustache, an eye drawn in profile, and a cap. It is true the pure Mexican race occasionally
have moustaches, but they are very slight, not like this, which falls in a curve on both sides
of the mouth; and no Mexican of pure Indian race ever had such a nose and chin, which must
have been modelled from the face of some toothless old Spaniard.

Mention must be made of the wooden drums--teponaztli--of which some few specimens are still
to be seen in Mexico. Such drums figured in the religious ceremonies of the Aztecs, and one
often hears of them in Mexican history. I have mentioned already the great drum which Bernal
Diaz saw when he went up the Mexican teocalli with Cortes, and which he describes as a hellish
instrument, made with skins of great serpents; and which, when it was struck, gave a loud and
melancholy sound, that could be heard at two leagues' distance. Indeed, they did afterwards
hear it from their camp a mile or two off, when their unfortunate companions were being sacrificed
on the teocalli.

The Aztec drums, which are still to be seen, are altogether of wood, nearly cylindrical, but
swelling out in the middle, and hollowed out of solid logs. Some have the sounding-board made
unequally thick in different parts, so as to give several notes when struck. All are elaborately
carved over with various designs, such as faces, head-dresses, weapons, suns with rays, and
fanciful patterns, among which the twisted cord is one of the commonest.

Besides the drums which are preserved in museums, there are others, carefully kept in Indian
villages, not as curiosities, but as instruments of magical power. Heller mentions such a teponaztli,
which is still preserved among the Indians of Huatusco, an Indian village near Mirador in the
tierra templada, where the inhabitants have had their customs comparatively little altered
by intercourse with white men. They keep this drum as a sacred instrument, and beat it only
at certain times of the year, though they have no reason to give for doing so. It is to be
regretted that Heller did not take a note of the particular days on which this took place;
for the times of the Mexican festivals are well known, and this information would have settled
the question whether the Indians of the present day have really any definite recollection of
their old customs.

Drums of this kind do not belong exclusively to Mexico. Among all the tribes of North America
they were one of the principal "properties" used by the Medicine-men in their ceremonies; and
among the tribes which have not been christianized they are still to be found in use. After
we left Mexico, Mr. Christy visited some tribes in the Hudson's Bay Territory; and on one occasion,
happening to assist at a festival in which just such a wooden drum was used, he bought it of
the Medicine-man of the tribe, and packed it off triumphantly to his museum.

A few picture-writings are still to be seen in the Museum, which, with the few preserved in
Europe, are all we have left of these interesting records, of which there were thousands upon
thousands in Mexico and Tezcuco. Some were burnt or destroyed during the sieges of the cities,
some perished by mere neglect, but the great mass was destroyed by archbishop Zumarraga, when
he made an attempt--and, to some extent, a successful one--to obliterate every trace of heathenism,
by destroying all the monuments and records in the country. One of the picture-writings hanging
on the wall is very probably the same that was sent up from Vera Cruz to Montezuma, with figures
of the newly-arrived white men, their ships and horses, and their cannons with fire and smoke
issuing from their mouths. Another shows a white man being sacrificed, of course one of the
Spanish prisoners. The pictorial history of the migration of the Aztecs is here, and a list
of tributes paid to the Mexican sovereign; the different articles being drawn with numbers
against each, to show the quantities to be paid, as in the Egyptian inscriptions. Lord Kingsborough's
great work contains fac-similes of several Mexican manuscripts, and in Humboldt's Vues des
Cordillères some of the most remarkable are figured and described.

One of the most curious of the Aztec picture-writings is in the Bodleian Library, and in fac-simile
in Lord Kingsborough's Antiquities of Mexico. In it are shown, in a series of little pictures,
the education of Mexican boys and girls, as prescribed by law. The child four days old is being
sprinkled with water, and receiving its name. At four years old they are to be allowed one
tortilla a meal, which is indicated by a drawing above their heads, of four circles representing
years, and one cake; and the father sends the son to carry water, while the mother shows the
daughter how to spin. A tortilla is like an oat-cake, but is made of Indian corn.

At seven years old the boy is taken to learn to fish, while the girl spins; and so on with
different occupations for one year after another. At nine years old the father is allowed to
punish his son for disobedience, by sticking aloe-points all over his naked body, while the
daughters only have them stuck into their hands; and at eleven years old, both boy and girl
were to be punished by holding their faces in the smoke of burning capsicums.

At fifteen the youth is married by the simple process of tying the corner of his shirt to the
corner of the bride's petticoat (thus literally "splicing" them, as my companion remarked).
And so on; after scenes of cutting wood, visiting the temples, fighting and feasting, we come
to the last scene of all, headed "seventy years," and see an old man and woman reeling about
helplessly drunk with pulque; for drunkenness, which was severely punished up to that age,
was tolerated afterwards as a compensation for the sorrows and infirmities of the last period
of life.

Astrological charts formed a large proportion of these picture-writings. Here, as elsewhere,
we may trace the origin of astrology. The signs of the days and years were represented, for
convenience sake, by different animals, and objects, like the signs of the Zodiac which we
still retain. The signs remained after the history of their origin was lost; and then--what
more natural than to imagine that the symbols handed down by their wise ancestors had some
mysterious meaning, connected with the days and years they stood for; and then, that a man's
destiny had to do with the names of the signs that "prevailed" at his birth?

There is little to be seen here or elsewhere, of one kind of work in which the Mexicans excelled
perhaps more than in any other, the goldsmith's work. Where are the calendars of solid gold
and silver--as big as great wheels, and covered with hieroglyphics, and the cups and collars,
the golden birds, beasts, and fishes? The Spaniards who saw them record how admirable their
workmanship was, and they were good judges of such matters. Benvenuto Cellini saw some of these
things, and was filled with admiration. They have all gone to the melting-pot centuries ago!
How important the goldsmith's trade was accounted in old times is shown by a strange Aztec
law. It was no ordinary offence to steal gold and silver. Criminals convicted of this offence
were not treated as common thieves, but were kept till the time when the goldsmiths celebrated
their annual festival, and were then solemnly sacrificed to their god Xipe;[19] the priests
flaying their bodies, cooking and eating them, and walking about dressed in their skins, a
ceremony which was called tlacaxipehualiztli, "the man-flaying."

Museums of Mexican antiquities are so much alike, that, in general, one description will do
for all of them. Mr. Uhde's Museum at Heidelberg is a far finer one than that at Mexico, except
as regards the picture-writings. I was astonished at the enormous quantity of stone idols,
delicately worked trinkets in various hard stones and even in obsidian, terra-cotta tobacco-pipes,
figures, and astronomical calendars, &c., displayed there.

Mr. Christy's collection is richer than any other in small sculptured figures from Central
America. It contains a squatting female figure in hard brown lava, like the one in black basalt
which is drawn in Humboldt's Vues des Cordillères, and there called (I cannot imagine why)
an Aztec priestess. Above all, it contains what I believe to be the three finest specimens
of Aztec decorative art which exist in the world. One of these is the knife of which the figure
at page 101 gives some faint idea, the other two being a wooden mask overlaid with mosaic,
and a human skull decorated in the same manner, of which a more particular description will
be found in the Appendix. There are two kinds of Aztec articles in Mr. Christy's collection
which I did not observe either at Mexico or Heidelberg. These are bronze needles, resembling
our packing-needles, and little cast bronze bells, called in Aztec yotl, not unlike small horse-bells
made in England at the present day; these are figured in the tribute-lists in the picture-writings.

Apropos of the mammoth bones preserved in the Mexican Museum, I must insert a quotation from
Bernal Diaz. It is clear that the traditions of giants which exist in almost every country
had their origin in the discovery of fossil bones, whose real character was not suspected until
a century ago; but I never saw so good an example of this as in the Tlascalan tradition, which
my author relates as follows.--"And they" (the Tlascalan chiefs) "said that their ancestors
had told them that, in times past, there lived amongst them in settlements men and women of
great size, with huge bones; and, as they were wicked and of evil dispositions, they (the ancestors
of the Tlascalans) fought against them and killed them; and those who were left died out. And
that we might see what stature they were of, they brought a bone of one of them, and it was
very big, and its height was that of a man of reasonable stature; it was a thigh-bone, and
I (Bernal Diaz) measured myself against it, and it was as tall as I am, who am a man of reasonable
stature; and they brought other pieces of bones like the first, but they were already eaten
through and rotted by the earth; and we were all amazed to see those bones, and held that for
certain there had been giants in that land; and our captain, Cortes, said to us that it would
be well to send the great bone to Castile, that His Majesty might see it; and so we did send
it by the first messengers who went."

Among other things belonging to the Spanish period is the banner, with the picture of the Virgin,
which accompanied the Spanish army during the Conquest. Authentic or not, it is certainly very
well painted. There is a suit of armour said to have belonged to Cortes. Its genuineness has
been doubted; but I think its extreme smallness seems to go towards proving that it is a true
relic, for Bullock saw the tomb of Cortes opened some thirty years ago, and was surprised at
the small proportions of his skeleton. Specimens of the pottery and glass now made in the country,
and other curiosities, complete the catalogue of this interesting collection.

The Mexican calendar is not in the Museum, but is built into the wall of the cathedral, in
the Plaza Mayor. It is sculptured on the face of a single block of basalt, which weighs between
twenty and thirty tons, and must have been transported thirty miles by Mexican labourers, for
the stone is not found nearer than that distance from the city; and this transportation was,
of course, managed by hand-labour alone, as there were no beasts of burden.

We know pretty well the whole system of Mexican astronomy from this calendar-stone and a few
manuscripts which still exist, and from the information given in the work of Gama the astronomer
and other writers. The Aztecs and Tezcucans who used it, did not claim its invention as their
own, but said they had received it from the Toltecs, their predecessors. The year consisted
of 365 days, with an intercalation of 13 days for each cycle of 52 years, which brought it
to the same length as the Julian year of 365 days 6 hours. The theory of Gama, that the intercalation
was still more exact, namely, 12-1/2 days instead of 13, seems to be erroneous.

Our reckoning only became more exact than this when we adopted the Gregorian calendar in 1752,
and the people marched about the streets in procession, crying "Give us back our eleven days!"
Perhaps this is not quite a fair way of putting the case, however, for the new style would
have been adopted in our country long before, had it not been a Romish institution. It was
the deliberate opinion of the English, as of people in other Protestant countries, that it
was much better to have the almanack a few days wrong than to adopt a Popish innovation. One
often hears of the Papal Bull which settles the question of the earth's standing still. The
history of the Gregorian calendar is not a bad set-off against it on the other side. At any
rate, the new style was not introduced anywhere until sixty or seventy years after the discovery
of Mexico, and five hundred years after the introduction of the Toltec calendar in Mexico.

The Mexican calendar-stone should be photographed on a large scale, and studied yet more carefully
than it has been, for only a part of the divided circles which surround it have been explained.
It should be photographed, because, to my certain knowledge, Mayer's drawing gives the year,
above the figure of the sun which indicates the date of the calendar, quite wrongly; and yet,
presuming on his own accuracy, he accuses another writer of leaving out the hieroglyph of the
winter solstice. What is much more strange is, that Humboldt's drawing in the small edition
of the Vues des Cordillères is wrong in both points. The drawing in Nebel's great work is probably
the best. As to the wax models which Mr. Christy and I bought in Mexico, in the innocence of
our hearts, a nearer inspection showed that the artist, observing that the circle of days would
divide more neatly into sixteen parts than into twenty, had arranged his divisions accordingly;
apparently leaving out the four hieroglyphics which he considered the ugliest.

The details made out at present on the calendar are as follows:--the summer and winter solstices,
the spring and autumn equinoxes, the two passages of the Sun over the zenith of Mexico, and
some dates which possibly belong to religious festivals. The dates of the two zenith-transits
are especially interesting; for, as they vary with the latitude, they must have been made out
by actual observation in Mexico itself, and not borrowed from some more civilised people in
the distant countries through which the Mexicans migrated. This fact alone is sufficient to
prove a considerable practical knowledge of astronomy.

Besides this, the Mexican cycle of fifty-two years seems to be indicated in the circle outside
the signs of days, and also the days in the priestly year of 260 days; but to make these numbers,
we must allow for the compartments supposed to be hidden by the projecting rays of the sun.

The arrangement of the Mexican cycle of fifty-two years is very curious. They had four signs
of years, tochtli, acatl, tecpatl, and calli,--rabbit, canes, flint, and house; and against
these signs they ranged numbers, from 1 to 13, so that a cycle exactly corresponds to a pack
of cards, the four signs being the four suits, thirteen of each. Now, any one would suppose
that in making such a reckoning, they would first take one suit, count one, two, three, &c.
in it, up to 13, and then begin another suit. This is not the Mexican idea, however. Their
reckoning is 1 tochtli, 2 acatl, 3 tecpatl, &c., just as it may be made with the cards thus:
ace of hearts, two of diamonds, 3 of spades, 4 of clubs, 5 of hearts, 6 of diamonds, and so
on through the pack. The correspondence between the cycle of 52 years, divided among 4 signs,
and our year of 52 weeks, divided among 4 seasons, is also curious, though as entirely accidental
as the resemblance to the pack of cards, for the Mexican week (if we may call it so) consisted
of 5 days instead of 7, which to a great extent nullifies the comparison.

The reckoning of days is still more cumbrous. It consists of the days of the week written in
succession from 1 to 13, underneath these the 20 signs of days, and underneath these again
another series of 9 signs; so that each day was distinguished by a combination of a number
and two signs, which combination could not belong to any other day.

The date of the year at the top of the calendar is 13 acatl (13 canes), which stands for 1479,
1427, 1375, 1323, and so on, subtracting 52 years each time. Now, why was this year chosen?
It was not the beginning of a cycle, but the 26th year; and so, in ascertaining the meaning
of the dates on the calendar, allowance has to be made for six days which have been gained
by the leap-years only being adjusted at the end of the cycle; but this certainly offers no
advantage whatever; and if an arbitrary date had been chosen to start the calendar with, of
course it would have been the first year of a cycle. The year may have been chosen in commemoration
of the foundation of Mexico or Tenochtitlán, which historians give as somewhere about 1324
or 1325. The sign 13 acatl would stand for 1323. It is more likely that the date merely refers
to the year in which the calendar was put up. As such a massive and elaborate piece of sculpture
could only belong to the most flourishing period of the Aztec empire, the year indicated would
be 1279, nine years before the building of the great pyramid close by.

Baron Humboldt's celebrated argument to prove the Asiatic origin of the Mexicans is principally
founded upon the remarkable resemblance of this system of cycles in reckoning years to those
found in use in different parts of Asia. For instance, we may take that described by Hue and
Gabet as still existing in Tartary and Thibet, which consists of one set of signs, wood, fire,
earth, &c., combined with a set of names of animals, mouse, ox, tiger, &c. The combination
is made almost exactly in the same way as that in which the Aztecs combine their signs and
numbers, as for instance, the year of the fire-pig, the iron-hare, &c. If these were simple
systems of counting years, or even if, although difficult, they had some advantages to offer,
we might suppose that two different races in want of a system to count their years by, had
devised them independently. But, in fact, both the Asiatic and the Mexican cycles are not only
most intricate and troublesome to work, but by the constant liability to confound one cycle
with another, they lead to endless mistakes. Hue says that the Mongols, to get over this difficulty,
affix a special name to all the years of each king's reign, as for instance, "the year Tao-Kouang
of the fire-ram;" apparently not seeing that to give the special name and the number of the
year of the reign, and call it the 44th year of Tao-Kouang, would answer the same purpose,
with one-tenth of the trouble.

Not only are the Mexican and Asiatic systems alike in the singular principle they go upon,
but there are resemblances in the signs used that seem too close for chance.[20] The other
arguments which tend to prove that the Mexicans either came from the Old World or had in some
way been brought into connexion with tribes from thence, are principally founded on coincidences
in customs and traditions. We must be careful to eliminate from them all such as we can imagine
to have originated from the same outward causes at work in both hemispheres, and from the fact
that man is fundamentally the same everywhere. To take an instance from Peru. We find the Incas
there calling themselves "Child of the Sun," and marrying their own sisters, just as the Egyptian
kings did. But this proves nothing whatever as to connexion between the two people. The worship
of the Sun, the giver of light and heat, may easily spring up among different people without
any external teaching; and what more natural, among imperfectly civilized tribes, than that
the monarch should claim relationship with the divinity? And the second custom was introduced
that the royal race might be kept unmixed.

Thus, when we find the Aztecs burning incense before their gods, kings, and great men, and
propitiating their deities with human sacrifices, we can conclude nothing from this. But we
find them baptizing their children, anointing their kings, and sprinkling them with holy water,
punishing the crime of adultery by stoning the criminals to death, and practising several other
Old World usages of which I have already spoken. We must give some weight to these coincidences.

Of some of the supposed Aztec Bible-traditions I have already spoken in no very high terms.
There is another tradition, however, resting upon unimpeachable evidence, which relates the
occurrence of a series of destructions and regenerations of the world, and recalls in the most
striking manner the Indian cosmogony; and, when added to the argument from the similarity of
the systems of astronomical notation of Mexico and Asia, goes far towards proving a more or
less remote connection between the inhabitants of the two continents.

There is another side to the question, however, as has been stated already. How could the Mexicans
have had these traditions and customs from the Old World, and not have got the knowledge of
some of the commonest arts of life from the same source? As I have said, they do not seem to
have known the proper way of putting the handle on to a stone-hammer; and, though they used
bronze, they had not applied it to making such things as knives and spear-heads. They had no
beasts of burden; and, though there were animals in the country which they probably might have
domesticated and milked, they had no idea of anything of the kind. They had oil, and employed
it for various purposes, but had no notion of using it or wax for burning. They lighted their
houses with pine-torches; and in fact the Aztec name for a pine-torch--ocotl--was transferred
to candles when they were introduced.

Though they were a commercial people, and had several substitutes for money--such as cacao-grains,
quills of gold-dust, and pieces of tin of a particular shape, they had no knowledge of the
art of weighing anything, but sold entirely by tale and measure. This statement, made by the
best authorities, their language tends to confirm. After the Conquest they made the word tlapexouia
out of the Spanish "peso," and also gave the meaning of weighing to two other words which mean
properly to measure and to divide equally. Had they had a proper word of their own for the
process, we should find it. The Mexicans scarcely ever adopted a Spanish word even for Spanish
animals or implements, if they could possibly make their own language serve. They called a
sheep an ichcatl, literally a "thread-thing," or "cotton": a gun a "fire-trumpet:" and sulphur
"fire-trumpet-earth." And yet, a people ignorant of some of the commonest arts had extraordinary
knowledge of astronomy, and even knew the real cause of eclipses,[21] and represented them
in their sacred dances.

Set the difficulties on one side of the question against those on the other, and they will
nearly balance. We must wait for further evidence.

Our friend Don José Miguel Cervantes, the President of the Ayuntamiento, took us one day to
see the great prison of Mexico, the Acordada. As to the prison itself, it is a great gloomy
building, with its rooms and corridors arranged round two courtyards, one appropriated to the
men, the other to the women. A few of the men were at work making shoes and baskets, but most
were sitting and lying about in the sun, smoking cigarettes and talking together in knots,
the young ones hard at work taking lessons in villainy from the older hands; just the old story.

Offenders of all orders, from drunkards and vagrants up to highway robbers and murderers, all
were mixed indiscriminately together. But we should remember that in England twenty years ago
it was usual for prisons to be such places as this; and even now, in spite of model prisons
and severe discipline, the miserable results of our prison-system show, as plainly as can be,
that when we have caught our criminal we do not in the least know how to reform him, now that
our colonists have refused him the only chance he ever had.

It is bad enough to mix together these men under the most favourable circumstances for corrupting
one another. Every man must come out worse than he went in; but this wrong is not so great
as that which the untried prisoners suffer in being forced into the society of condemned criminals,
while their trials drag on from session to session, through the endless technicalities and
quibbles of Spanish law.

We made rather a curious observation in this prison. When one enters such a place in Europe,
one expects to see in a moment, by the faces and demeanour of the occupants, that most of them
belong to a special criminal class, brought up to a life of crime which is their only possible
career, belonging naturally to police-courts and prisons, herding together when out of prison
in their own districts and their own streets, and carefully avoided by the rest of society.
You may know a London thief when you see him; he carries his profession in his face and in
the very curl of his hair. Now in this prison there was nothing of the kind to be seen. The
inmates were brown Indians and half-bred Mexicans, appearing generally to belong to the poorest
class, but just like the average of the people in the streets outside. As my companion said,
"If these fellows are thieves and murderers, so are our servants, and so is every man in a
serape we meet in the streets, for all we can tell to the contrary." There was positively nothing
at all peculiar about them.

If they had been all Indians we might have been easily deceived. Nothing can be more true than
Humboldt's observation that the Indian face differs so much from ours that it is only after
years of experience that a European can learn to distinguish the varieties of feature by which
character can be judged of. He mistakes peculiarities which belong to the race in general for
personal characteristics; and the thickness of the skin serves still more to mask the expression
of their faces. But the greater part of these men were Mexicans of mixed Indian and Spanish
blood, and their faces are pretty much European.

The only explanation we could give of this identity of character inside the prison and outside
is not flattering to the Mexican people, but I really believe it to be true. We came to the
conclusion that the prisoners did not belong to a class apart, but that they were a tolerably
fair specimen of the poorer population of the table-lands of Mexico. They had been more tempted
than others, or they had been more unlucky, and that was why they were here.

There were perhaps a thousand prisoners in the place, two men to one woman. Their crimes were--one-third,
drunken disturbance and vagrancy; another third, robberies of various kinds; a fourth, wounding
and homicides, mostly arising out of quarrels; leaving a small residue for all other crimes.

Our idea was confirmed by many foreigners who had lived long in the country and had been brought
into personal contact with the people. Every Mexican, they said, has a thief and a murderer
in him, which the slightest provocation will bring out. This of course is an exaggeration,
but there is a great deal of truth in it. The crimes in the prison-calendar belong as characteristics
to the population in general. Highway-robbery, cutting and wounding in drunken brawls, and
deliberate assassination, are offences which prevail among the half-white Mexicans; while stealing
is common to them and the pure Indian population. We noticed several instances of bigamy, a
crime which Mexican law is very severe upon. As far as we could judge by the amount of punishment
inflicted, it is a greater crime to marry two women than to kill two men. In one gallery are
the cells for criminals condemned to death, but the occupants were allowed to mix freely with
the rest of the prisoners, and they seemed comfortable enough.

Everybody knows how much in England the condition of a prisoner depends on the disposition
of the governor in office and the system in vogue for the moment. The mere words of his sentence
do not indicate at all what his fate will be. He comes in--under Sir John--to light labour,
much schoolmaster and chaplain, and the expectation of a ticket-of-leave when a fraction of
his time is expired. All at once Sir James supersedes Sir John, and with him comes in a régime
of hard work, short rations, and the black hole. If he had been "in" a month sooner, he would
have been "out" now with those more fortunate criminals, his late companions.

Things ought not to be so in England, but we need hardly wonder at their being still worse
in Mexico in this respect as in all others. There have been twenty changes of government in
ten years, and sometimes extreme severity has been the rule, which may change at a day's notice
into the extreme of mildness. In Santa Ana's time the utmost rigour of the law prevailed. Our
friends in the Calle Seminario, as they came back from their morning's ride in the Paseo, had
to pass through the great square; and used to see there, day after day, pairs of garotted malefactors
sitting bolt upright in the high wooden chairs they had just been executed in, with a frightful
calm look on their dead faces.

For the last year or so all this had ceased, and there had scarcely been an execution. It seems
that one principal reason of this lenity is that the government is too weak to support its
judges; and that the ministers of justice are actually intimidated by threats mysteriously
conveyed to witnesses and authorities, that, if such or such a criminal is executed, his friends
have sworn to avenge his death, and are on the look-out, every man with his knife ready. To
political offences the same mercy is extended. In the early times of the war of independence,
and for years afterwards, when one leader caught an officer on the other side, he had him tried
by a drum-head court-martial, and shot. Since then it has come to be better understood that
civil war is waged for the benefit of individuals who wish for their turn of power and their
pull at the public purse; and the successful leader spares his opponent, not caring to establish
a precedent which might prove so very inconvenient to himself.

We were taken to see the garotte by the President, who took it out of its little mahogany case,
into which it was fitted like any other surgical instrument. We noticed that it was rusty,
and indeed it had not been used for many months. It is not worth while to describe it.

Mexican law well administered is bad enough, not essentially unjust, but hampered with endless
quibbles and technicalities, quite justifying the Spanish proverb, "Mas vale una mala composición
que un buen pleito,"--a bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit. As things stand now,
the law of any case is the least item in the account, there are so many ways of working upon
judges and witnesses. Bribery first and foremost; and--if that fails--personal intimidation,
political influence, private friendship, and the compadrazgo. Naturally, if you have a lawsuit
or are tried for a crime, you should lay a good foundation. This is done by working upon the
Juez de primera instancia, who corresponds in some degree to the Juge d'instruction in France.
This functionary is wretchedly paid, so that a small sum is acceptable to him; and, moreover,
the records of the case, as tried by him, form the basis of all future litigation, so that
it is very bad economy not to get him into proper order. If you do not, it will cost you three
times as much afterwards. If your suit is with a soldier or a priest, the ordinary tribunals
will not help you. These two classes--the most influential in the community--have their fuero,
their special jurisdiction; and woe to the unfortunate civilian who attacks them in their own
courts!

Don Miguel Lerdo do Tejada, whose sense of humour occasionally peeps out from among his statistics,
remarks gravely that "the clergy has its special legislation, which consists of the Sacred
Volumes, the decision of General and Provincial Councils, the Pontifical Decretals, and doctrines
of the Holy Fathers." Of what sort of justice is dealt out in that court, one may form some
faint idea.

One of our friends in Mexico had a house which was too large for him, and in a moment of weakness
he let part of it to a priest. Two years afterwards, when we made his acquaintance, he was
hard at work trying, not to get his rent, he had given up that idea long before, but to get
the priest out. I believe that, eventually, he gave him something handsome to take his departure.

I have often quoted Don Miguel Lerdo de Tejada, and shall do so again. His statistics of the
country for 1856 are given in a broad sheet, and seem to be generally reliable. The annual
balance-sheet of the country he sums up in three lines--

     Annual Expenditure . . . . . . 25,000,000 dollars.
     Annual Revenue . . . . . . . . 15,000,000 dollars.
                                    ----------
     Annual Deficit . . . . . . . . 10,000,000 dollars.

The President of the Ayuntamiento was a pleasant person to know, among the dishonest, intriguing
Mexican officials. He received but little pay in return for a great deal of hard work; but
he liked to be in office for the opportunities it afforded him of improving the condition of
the poor of the city. It was a sight to see the prisoners crowd round him as he entered the
court. They all knew him, and it was quite evident they all considered him as a friend. In
what little can be done for the ignorant and destitute under the unfavourable circumstances
of the country, Don Miguel has had a large share; but until an orderly government, that is,
a foreign one, succeeds to the present anarchy, not very much can be done.

I mentioned the word "compadrazgo" a little way back. The thing itself is curious, and quite
novel to an Englishman of the present day. The godfathers and godmothers of a child become,
by their participation in the ceremony, relations to one another and to the priest who baptizes
the child, and call one another ever afterwards compadre and comadre. Just such a relationship
was once expressed by the word "gossip," "God-sib," that is "akin in God." Gossip has quite
degenerated from its old meaning, and even "sib," though good English in Chaucer's time, is
now only to be found in provincial dialects; but in German "sipp" still means "kin."

In Mexico this connexion obliges the compadres and comadres to hospitality and honesty and
all sorts of good offices towards one another; and it is wonderful how conscientiously this
obligation is kept to, even by people who have no conscience at all for the rest of the world.
A man who will cheat his own father or his own son will keep faith with his compadre. To such
an extent does this influence become mixed up with all sorts of affairs, and so important is
it, that it is necessary to count it among the things that tend to alter the course of justice
in the country.

The French have the words compère and commère; and it is curious to observe that the name of
compère is given to the confederate of the juggler, who stands among the crowd, and slyly helps
in the performance of the trick.

We went one day to the Hospital of San Lazaro. I have mentioned the word "lepero" as applied
to the poor and idle class of half-caste Mexicans. It is only a term of reproach, exactly corresponding
to the "lazzarone" of Naples, who resembles the Mexican lepers in his social condition, and
whose name implies the same thing; for, of course, Saint Lazarus is the patron saint of lepers
and foul beggars. There are some few real lepers in Mexico, who are obliged by law to be shut
up in this hospital. We rather expected to see something like what one reads of the treatment
of lepers which prevailed in Europe until a few years ago--shutting them up in dismal dens
cut off from communication with other human beings. We were agreeably disappointed. They were
confined, it is true, but in a spacious building, with court-yard and garden; their nurses
and attendants appeared to be very kind to them; and it seems that many charitable people come
to visit the inmates, and bring them cigars and other small luxuries, to relieve the monotony
of their dismal lives. Some had their faces horribly distorted by the falling of the corners
of the eyes and mouth, and the disappearance of the cartilage of the nose; and a few, in whom
the disease had terminated in a sort of gangrene, were frightful objects, with their features
scarcely distinguishable; but in the majority of cases the leprosy had caused a gradual disappearance
of the ends of the fingers and toes, and even of the whole hands and feet. The limbs thus mutilated
looked as though the parts which were wanting had been amputated, and the wound had quite healed
over, but it is caused by a gradual absorption without wound and without pain. As every one
knows, leprosy of these kinds was held until quite lately to be dangerously contagious; but,
fortunately for the poor creatures themselves, this is quite clearly proved to be false, and
the lepers are only shut up that they may have no children, for the affection appears to be
hereditary.

It was early one morning, when we were going out to breakfast at Tisapán, that Don Juan recounted
to us his experience of garrotted malefactors sitting dead in their chairs in the great square
across which we were riding. "It was really almost enough to spoil a fellow's breakfast," he
added pathetically. Though an Englishman, and only arrived in the country a few years before,
Don Juan was as clever with the lazo as most Mexicans, and could colear a bull in great style.
Indeed, we had started early that morning in order to have time enough to look at the bulls
in the potreros--the great grass-meadows--that lie for miles outside the city, and which are
made immensely fertile by flooding from time to time. Wherever we saw a bull in the distance,
Don Juan and his grand little horse Pancho plunged over a bank and through a gap, and we after
him. No one ever leaps anything in this country, indeed the form of the saddle puts it out
of the question. One or two bulls looked up as we entered the enclosure, and bolted into other
fields, pushing in among the thorns of the aloes which formed close hedges of fixed bayonets
round the meadows. At last Don Juan cut off the retreat of an old bull, and galloping after
him like mad, flung the running loop of the lazo over his horns, at the same time winding the
other end round the pummel of his saddle. The bull was still standing on all four legs, pulling
with all its might against Pancho. Galloping after him, so as to slacken the end of the lazo,
we contrived to transfer it from Don Juan's saddle to mine. Now my own horse happened to be
a little lame, and I was riding a poor little black beast whose bones really seemed to rattle
in his skin. Our acquaintances in the Paseo had been quite facetious about him, recommending
us to be careful and not to smoke up against him, for fear we should blow him over, and otherwise
whetting their wit upon him. He acquitted himself very creditably, however, and when the bull
began to pull against him, he leant over on the other side, as if he had been galloping round
a circus; and the bull could not move him an inch. It was quite evident that it was not his
first experiment. In the mean time Don Juan had dropped the noose of my lazo just before the
bull's nose, and presently that animal incautiously put his foot into it, when Don Juan whipped
it up round his leg and went off at full gallop. My little black horse knew perfectly well
what had happened, though his head was exactly in the opposite direction; and he tugged with
all his might, and leant over more than ever. The two lazos tightened with a twang, as though
they had been guitar-strings; and in a moment the unfortunate bull was rolling with all his
legs in the air, in the midst of a whirlwind of dust. Having thus humiliated him we let him
go, and off he went at full speed. All this time the proprietor of the field was tranquilly
standing on a bank, looking on. Far from raging at us for treating his property in this free
and easy manner, he returned our salutation when we rode up to him, and, addressing our sporting
countryman, said, "Well done, old fellow, come another day and try again."

Our whole ride to Tisapán was enlivened by a series of Don Juan's exploits. He raced after
bulls, got hold of their tails, and coleared them over into the dust. He lazo'd everything
in the road, from milestones and trunks of trees upwards; and I shall never forget our meeting
with a great mule which was trotting along the road without a burden,--just as he passed us,
our companion slipped the noose round his hind leg, and the beast went down as if he had been
shot, the muleteers pulling up on purpose to have a good open-mouthed laugh at the incident.

We seemed to be in rather a sporting line that day, for, after our return from Tisapán, Don
Juan and I went to see a cockfight. In Mexico, as in Cuba and all Spanish America, this is
the favourite sport of the people. In Cuba, the principal shopkeeper in every village keeps
the cockpit--the "plaza de gallos." The people from the whole district round about come in
on Sunday to the village, with a triple object; first, to hear mass; secondly, to buy their
supplies for the ensuing week; and thirdly, to spend the afternoon in cockfighting, at which
amusement it is easy to win or lose two or three hundred pounds in an afternoon. The custom
that the cockpit brings to the shop more than repays the proprietor for the expense and trouble
of keeping it. In Cuba, the spurs of the cock are artificially pointed by paring with a penknife,
but the Mexican way of arming them is even more abominable.

Each bird has a sharp steel knife three or four inches long, just like a little scythe-blade,
fastened over the natural spur before the fight commences. A leather sheath covers the weapon
while the cocks are being put into the ring, and held with their beaks almost touching till
they are furious. Then they are drawn back to opposite sides of the ring, the sheaths are taken
off, and they fly at one another, giving desperate cuts with the steel blades.

The cockpit was a small round wooden shed, with the ring in the middle, and circular benches
round it, rising one above another. The place was full of people, mostly Mexicans of the lower
orders, smoking, betting, and talking sporting-slang. The betting was surprising, when one
compared its amount with the appearance of the spectators, among whom there was hardly a decent
coat to be seen. Every now and then, a dirty scoundrel in a shabby leather jacket would walk
round the ring with a handful of gold, offering the odds--ten to five, ten to seven, ten to
nine, or whatever they might be, in gold ounces, which coins are worth above three pounds apiece.

Cockfighting is such a passion here that we thought it as well to see it for once. Santa Ana,
now he has retired from politics, spends his time at Carthagena pretty much entirely in this
his favourite sport, which forms one of the great items among the pleasures and excitements
of a Mexican life. We saw a couple of mains fought, in which the victorious birds were dreadfully
mangled, while the vanquished were literally cut to pieces; as much money changed hands as
we should have thought sufficient to buy up the whole of the people present, cockpit and all.
Then, being both agreed that it was a disgusting sight, we went away.

Before we left Mexico we were taken by our man Antonio to a cutler's shop, where the principal
trade seemed to be the making of these cuchillos to arm the cocks with. We bought a couple
of pairs of them, and had them carefully fitted up. The old cutler was quite delighted, and
remarked that foreigners must acknowledge that there were some things which were done better
in Mexico than anywhere else. I fear we left him under the pleasing impression that we were
taking home the blades to introduce as models in our own benighted country.

The Mexican is a great gambler. Bad fortune he bears with the greatest equanimity. You never
hear of his committing suicide after being ruined at play; he just goes away, and sets to work
to earn enough for a fresh stake. The government have tried to put down gambling in the State
of Mexico, but not with much success. For three days in the year, however, at the festival
of San Agustín de las Cuevas, public gambling-tables are tolerated, though soldiers and officials
are strictly forbidden to play, an injunction which they carefully set at nought. Oddly enough,
the government, while doing all it could to keep its own functionaries away from the monte
table, did not scruple to send a military escort to convoy the bankers with their bags of gold
from Mexico to San Agustín. On one of the three days, Mr. Christy and I went there. There was
a great crowd, this time mostly a well-dressed one, and the cockpit was on a large scale. But
of course the great attraction was the monte, which was being played everywhere, the stakes
in some places being coppers, in others silver, while more aristocratic establishments would
allow no stake under a gold ounce. Dead silence prevailed in these places, and the players
seemed to pride themselves upon not showing the slightest change in their countenances, whether
they won or lost. The game itself is very simple, and has some points of resemblance to that
of lansquenet, known in Europe. The first two cards in the pack, say a four and a king, are
laid down, face up, on the table, and the gamblers put down their money against one or the
other. Then the croupier deals the cards out slowly and solemnly one after another, calling
out their names as they fall, until he comes--say to a king; when those who have betted on
the king have their stakes doubled, and the others lose theirs. The banker has a great advantage
to compensate him for his expense and risk. If the first card which is thrown out be one of
the two numbers on the table, the banker withholds a quarter of the stake he would otherwise
have lost, paying only a stake and three-quarters, instead of two stakes. Now, as there are
forty cards in a Spanish pack, two of which have been already thrown out, the chances for a
throw favourable to the banker are about one in six, so that he may reckon on an average profit
of about two per cent, on all the money staked.

As for the players, they sat round the table, carefully noticing the course of the games, and
regulating their play accordingly, as they do at Baden-Baden and Hombourg. I suppose that now
and then these scientific calculators must be told that their whole theory of chances is the
most baseless delusion, but they certainly do not believe it; and at any rate this curious
pseudo-science of winning by skill at games of pure chance will last our time, if not longer.

On some tables there were as much as three or four thousand gold ounces. This struck us the
more because we had often tried to get gold coin for our own use, instead of the silver dollars,
the general currency of the country, of which twenty pounds' worth to carry home on a hot day
was enough to break one's heart. We often tried to get gold, but the answer was always that
what little there was in the country was in the hands of the gamblers, whose operations could
not be worked on a large scale without it.

The prevalence of mining, as a means of getting wealth, has contributed greatly to make the
love of gambling an important part of the national character. Silver-mining in the old times
was a most hazardous speculation, and people engaged in it used to make and lose great fortunes
a dozen times in their lives. The miners worked not on fixed wages, but for a share of the
produce, and so every man became a gambler on his own account. To a great extent the same evils
prevail now, but two things have tended to lessen them. Poor ores are now worked profitably
which used to be neglected by the miners; and, as these ores occur in almost inexhaustible
masses, their mining is a much less speculative affair than the old system of mining for rich
veins. Moreover, the men are, in some of the largest mines, paid by the day, so that their
life has become more regular. In many places, however, the work is still done on shares by
the miners, who pass their lives in alternations of excessive riches and all kinds of extravagance,
succeeded by times of extreme poverty.

An acquaintance of ours was telling us one day about the lives of these men. One week, a party
of three miners had come upon a very rich bit of ore, and went away from the raya, each man
with a handkerchief full of dollars. This was on Saturday evening. On Monday morning our informant
went out for a ride, and on the road he met three dirty haggard-looking men, dressed in some
old rags; one of the three came forward, taking off the sort of apology for a hat which he
had on, and said, "Good morning, Señor Doctor, would you mind doing us the favour of lending
us half a dollar to get something to eat?" They were the three successful miners; and when,
a few days afterwards, the man who had asked for the money came back to return it, the Doctor
inquired what had happened.

It seemed that the three, as soon as they had received their money on Saturday, got a lift
to the nearest town, and there rigged themselves out with new clothes, silver buttons, five-pound
serapes, and a horse for each, with magnificent silver mountings to the saddle and spurs. Here
they have dinner, and lots of pulque, and swagger about outside the door, smoking cigarettes.
There, quite by chance, an acquaintance meets them, and admires the horses, but would like
to see their paces tried a little outside the town. So they pace and gallop along for half
a mile or so; when, also quite accidentally, they find two men sitting outside a rancho, playing
at cards. The two men--strangely enough--are old acquaintances of the curious friend, and they
produce a bowl of cool pulque from within, which our miners find quite refreshing after the
ride. Thereupon they sit down to have a little game at monte, then more pulque, then more cards;
and when they awake the next morning, they find themselves possessed of a suit of old rags,
with no money in the pockets. They had dim recollections of losing--first money, then horses,
and lastly clothes, the night before; but--as they were informed by the old woman, who was
the only occupant of the place besides themselves--their friends had been obliged to go away
on urgent business, and could not be so impolite as to disturb them. So they walked back to
the mines, ragged and hungry, and borrowed the doctor's half-dollar.

CHAPTER X.

TEZCUCO. MIRAFLORES. POPOCATEPETL. CHOLULA.

The wet season was fast coming on when we left Mexico for the last time. We had to pass through
Vera Cruz, where the rain and the yellow fever generally set in together; so that to stay longer
would have been too great a risk.

Our first stage was to Tezcuco, across the lake in a canoe, just as we had been before. We
noticed on our way to the canoes, a church, apparently from one to two centuries old, with
the following doggerel inscription in huge letters over the portico, which shows that the dogma
of the Immaculate Conception is by no means a recent institution in Mexico:

     Antes de entrar afirma con tu vida,
     S. Maria fué sin pecado concebida:

Which may be translated into verse of equal quality,

     Confess on thy life before coming in,
     That blessed Saint Mary was conceived without sin.

Nothing particular happened on our journey, except that a well-dressed Mexican turned up at
the landing-place, wanting a passage, and as we had taken a canoe for ourselves, we offered
to let him come with us. He was a well-bred young man, speaking one or two languages besides
his own; and he presently informed us that he was going on a visit to a rich old lady at Tezcuco,
whose name was Doña Maria Lopez, or something of the kind. When we drove away from the other
end of the lake, towards Tezcuco, we took him as far as the road leading to the old lady's
house; when he rather astonished us by hinting that he should like to go on with us to the
Casa Grande, and could walk back. At the same time, it struck us that the youth, though so
well dressed, had no luggage; and we began to understand the queer expression of the coachman's
face when he saw him get into the carriage with us. So we stopped at the corner of the road,
and the young gentleman had to get out.

At the Casa Grande, our friends laughed at us immensely when we told them of the incident,
and offered us twenty to one that he would come to ask for money within twenty-four hours.
He came the same evening, and brought a wonderful story about his passport not being en règle,
and that unless we could lend him ten dollars to bribe the police, he should be in a dreadful
scrape. We referred him to the master of the house, who said something to him which caused
him to depart precipitately, and we never saw him again; but we heard afterwards that he had
been to the other foreigners in the neighbourhood with various histories. We made more enquiries
about him in the town, and it appeared that his expedition to Tezcuco was improvised when he
saw us going down to the boat, and of course the visit to the rich old lady was purely imaginary.
Now this youth was not more than eighteen, and looked and spoke like a gentleman. They say
that the class he belonged to is to be counted rather by thousands than by hundreds in Mexico.
They are the children of white Creoles, or nearly white mestizos; they get a superficial education
and the art of dressing, and with this slender capital go out into the world to live by their
wits, until they get a government appointment or set up as political adventurers, and so have
a chance of helping themselves out of the public purse, which is naturally easier and more
profitable than mere sponging upon individuals. One gets to understand the course of Mexican
affairs much better by knowing what sort of raw material the politicians are recruited from.

We saw some good things in a small collection of antiquities, on this second visit to Tezcuco.
Among them was a nude female figure in alabaster, four or five feet high, and--comparatively
speaking--of high artistic merit. Such figures are not common in Mexico, and they are supposed
to represent the Aztec Venus, who was called Tlazolteocihua, "Goddess of Pleasure." A figure,
laboriously cut in hard stone, representing a man wearing a jackal's head as a mask, was supposed
to be a figurative representation of the celebrated king of Tezcuco, Nezahualcoyotl, "hungry
jackal," of whom Mexican history relates that he walked about the streets of his capital in
disguise, after the manner of the Caliph in the Arabian Nights. The explanation is plausible,
but I think not correct. The coyote or jackal was a sacred animal among the Aztecs, as the
Anubis-jackal was among the Egyptians. Humboldt found in Mexico the tomb of a coyote, which
had been carefully interred with an earthen vase, and a number of the little cast-bronze bells
which I noticed in the last chapter. The Mexicans used actually to make a kind of fetish--or
charm--of a jackal's skin, prepared in a peculiar way, and called by the same name, nezahualcoyotl,
and very likely they do so still. From this fetish the king's name was, no doubt, borrowed;
and it is not improbable that the whole story of the king's walking in disguise may have grown
up out of his name being the same as that of the figure we saw, muffled up in a jackal's skin.

It is curious that the jackal, or the human figure in a jackal-mask, should have been an object
of superstitious veneration both in Mexico and in Egypt. This, the extraordinary serpent-crown
of Xochicalco, and the pyramids, are the three most striking resemblances to be found between
the two countries; all probably accidental, but not the less noteworthy on that account.

The collection contained a number of spherical beads in green jade, highly polished, and some
as large as pigeon's eggs. They were found in an alabaster box, of such elaborate and beautiful
workmanship that the owner deemed it worthy to be presented as a sort of peace-offering to
the wife of President Santa Ana.

The word coyotl in the name of the Tezcucan king is the present word coyote--a jackal. Though
unknown in English, it has passed, with several Spanish words, into what we may call the American
dialect of our language. Prairie-hunters and Californians have introduced several other words
in this way, such as ranch, gulch, corral, &c.

The word lariat one is constantly meeting with in books about American prairies. A horse-rope,
or a lazo, is called in Spanish reata; and, by absorbing the article, la reata is made into
lariat, just as such words as alligator, alcove, and pyramid were formed. The flexible leather
riding-whip or cuarta is apparently the quirt that some American politicians use in arguing
with their opponents.

Our last day at Tezcuco was spent in packing up antiquities to be sent to England, the express
orders of the Government against such exportation to the contrary notwithstanding. Next morning
we rode off to Miraflores, passing on our way the curious stratum of alluvial soil containing
pottery, &c., which I have described already. Miraflores is a cotton-factory, in the opening
of a picturesque gorge just at the edge of the plain of Mexico. The machinery is American,
for the mill dates from the time when it was considered expedient to prohibit the exportation
of cotton-mill machinery from England; and having begun with American work, it naturally suits
them to go on with it. It is driven by a great Barker's mill, which works in a sort of well,
having an outlet into the valley, and roars as though it would tear the place down. It is not
common to see this kind of machine working on a large scale; but here, with a great fall of
water, it does very well. Otherwise the place was like an ordinary cotton-factory, and one
cannot be surprised at people thinking that such establishments are a source of prosperity
to the country. They see a population hard at work and getting good wages, masters making great
profits, and no end of bales going off to town; and do not consider that half the price of
the cloth is wasted, and that the protection-duty sets the people to work which they cannot
do to advantage, while it takes them away from occupations which their country is fit for.

Next morning took us to Amecameca, a town in a little plain at the foot of Popocatepetl, whose
snow-covered top towers high up in the clouds, like Mont Blanc over Sallanches. We had at one
time cherished hopes of getting to the top of this grand volcano, but had heard such frightful
reports of difficulties and dangers that we had concluded not to do more than look at it from
a distance, the more especially as there had been a heavy fall of snow upon it a day or two
before. We presented our letter to the Spaniard who kept the great shop at Amecameca, and asked
him, casually, about the mountain. He assured us that the surface of the snow would be frozen
over, and that instead of being a disadvantage the fall of snow was in our favour, for it was
easier to climb over frozen snow than up a loose heap of volcanic ashes. So we sent for the
guide, a big man, who used to manage the sulphur-workings in the crater until that undertaking
was given up. He set to work to get things ready for the expedition, and we strolled out for
a walk.

Close by the town is a "sacred mount," with little stations, and on one day in the year numbers
of pilgrims come to visit the place. Near the top, the Indian lad who came with us showed us
the mouth of a cavern, which leads by subterranean passages under the sea to Rome--as caverns
not unfrequently do in Roman Catholic countries! What was more worth noticing was that here
there was a cypress-tree, covered with votive offerings, like the great ahuchuete in the valley
above Chalma; so that it is likely that the place was sacred long before chapels and stations
were built upon it. Our guide told us that whenever a man touched the tree, all feeling of
weariness left him. How characteristic this superstition is of a nation of carriers of burdens!

In the afternoon we started--ourselves, our guide, and an Indian to carry cloaks, &c. up the
mountain. We soon left the cultivated region, and entered upon the pine-forest, which we never
left during our afternoon journey. One of the first showers of the rainy season came down upon
us as we rode through the forest. It only lasted half an hour, but it was a deluge. In a shower
of the same kind at Tezcuco, a day or two before, rain to the amount of 1-1/10 inches fell
in the hour. By dusk we reached the highest habitation in North America, the place where the
sulphur used to be sublimed from the pumice brought down from the crater. This place was shut
up, for the undertaking has been abandoned; but in a rancho close by we found some Indian women
and children, and there we took up our quarters. The rancho was a circular hut, built and thatched
with reeds, though in the midst of a pine-forest; and presently a smart shower began, which
came in upon us as though the roof had been a sieve.

The Indian women were kneeling all the evening round the wood-fire in the centre of the hut,
baking tortillas and boiling beans and coffee in earthen pots. The wood was green, and the
place was full of suffocating smoke, except within eighteen inches of the ground, where lay
a stratum of purer air. We were obliged to lie down at once, upon mats and serapes, for we
could not exist in the smoke; and as often as we raised ourselves into a sitting posture, we
had to dive down again, half suffocated. The line of demarcation was so accurately drawn that
it was like the Grotto del Cane, only reversed.

After a primitive supper in earthen bowls, we lay round the fire, listening to the talk of
our men and the Indian women. It was mostly about adventures with wolves, and about the sulphur-workings,
now discontinued. The weather had cleared, and as we lay we could see the stars shining in
through the roof. About three in the morning I awoke, feeling bruised all over, as was natural
after sleeping on a mat on the ground. Moreover, the fire had gone out, and it was horribly
cold, as well it might be at 13,000 feet above the sea. I shook some one up to make up the
fire, and went out into the open air. It was nearly full moon; but the moonlight was very different
from what we can see in England, even on the clearest nights. On the plateau of Mexico, the
rarity and dryness of the air are such that distant objects are seen far more distinctly than
at the level of the sea, and the European traveller's measurements of distance by the eye are
always too small. The sunlight and moonlight, for the same reason, are more intense than at
lower levels. Here, at about the same elevation as the top of the Jungfrau, the effect was
far more striking, and I shall never forget the brilliant flood of light that illuminated that
grand scene. Far down below I could see the plain, with houses and fields dimly visible. At
the bottom of the slope began the dark pine-forest, which enveloped the mountains up to the
level at which I stood, and there broke into an uneven line, with straggling patches running
up a few hundred feet higher in sheltered crevices. Above the forest came a region of bare
volcanic sand, and then began the snow. The highest peak no longer looked steep and pointed
as from below, but seemed to rise from the darker line of sand in a gentle swelling curve up
into the sky. There did not seem to be a speck or a wrinkle on this smooth snowy dome, the
brilliant whiteness of which contrasted so wonderfully with the dark pine-forest below.

About seven in the morning we started on horseback, rode up across the sandy district, and
entered upon the snow. After we left the pines, small bushes and tufts of coarse Alpine grass
succeeded. Where rocks of basaltic lava stood out from the heaps of crumbling ashes, after
the grass had ceased, lichens--the occupants of the highest zone--were still to be seen. Before
we reached the snow, we were in the midst of utter desolation, where no sign of life was visible.
From this point we sent back the horses, and started for the ascent of the cone. On our yesterday's
ride we had cut young pine-trees in the forest, for alpenstocks; and we tied silk handkerchiefs
completely over our faces, to keep off the glare of the sun. Our guide did the same; but the
Indian, who had been many times before up to the crater to get sulphur, had brought no protection
for his face. We marched in a line, the guide first, sounding the depth of the snow with his
pole, and keeping as nearly as he could along ridges just covered with snow, where we did not
sink far. It was from the lower part of the snow that we began to understand the magnificent
proportions of Iztaccihuatl--the "White Woman," the twin mountain which is connected with Popocatepetl
by an immense col, which stretches across below the snow-line. This mountain is not conical
like Popocatepetl, but its shoulders are broader, and break into grand peaks, like some of
the Dents of Switzerland, and it has no crater.[22] Indeed, the two mountains, joined together
like Siamese twins, look as though they had been set up, side by side, to illustrate the two
contending theories of the formation of volcanos. Von Buch and Humboldt might have made Iztaccihuatl
on the "upheaval theory," by a force pushing up from below, without breaking through the crust
to form a crater; while Poulett Scrope was building Popocatepetl on the "accumulation theory,"
by throwing up lava and volcanic ashes out of an open vent, until he had formed a conical heap
some five thousand feet high, with a great crater at the top.

As we toiled slowly up the snow, we took off our veils from time to time, to look more clearly
about us. The glare of the sun upon the snow was dazzling, and its intense whiteness contrasted
wonderfully with the cloudless dark indigo-blue of the sky. Between twelve and one we reached
the edge of the crater, 17,884 feet above the sea. The ridge upon which we stood was only a
few feet wide, and covered with snow; but it seemed that there was still heat enough to keep
the crater itself clear, for none lay on the bottom, or in clefts on the steep sides.

The crater was oval, full a mile in its longest diameter, and perhaps 700 to 800 feet in depth;
and its almost perpendicular walls of basaltic lava are covered with red and yellow patches
of sublimed sulphur. We climbed a little way down into it to get protection from the wind,
but to descend further unassisted was not possible, so we sat there, with our legs dangling
down into the abyss. Part of the malacate, or winder, used by the Indians in descending, was
still there; but it was not complete, and even if it had been, so many months had elapsed since
it was last used that we should not have cared to try it. It consisted of a rope of hide, descending
into the bottom of the crater in a slanting direction; and the sulphur-collectors were lowered
and drawn up it by a windlass, in a basket to which another rope was attached. A few years
back, the volcano used to send up showers of ashes, and even large stones; but now it has sunk
to the condition of a mere solfatara, sending out, from two crevices in the floor, great volumes
of sulphurous acid and steam, with a loud roaring noise. The sulphur-working merely consisted
in looking for places where the pumice-stone was fully impregnated with sulphur, and breaking
out pieces, which were hauled up in the basket. The chief risk which the labourers ran was
from the terrific snow-storms, which come on suddenly and without the slightest notice. Men
at work collecting sulphur have once or twice been caught by such storms in parts of the crater
at a distance from the rope, and buried in the snow.

The appearance of the "White Woman," but little lower than the point where we stood, was very
grand, but all other objects looked small. The two great plains of Mexico and Puebla, with
their lakes and towns, were laid out like a map; and the ranges of mountains which hem them
in made them look like Roman encampments surrounded by earthworks. Even now that the lakes
have shrunk to a fraction of their former size, we could see the fitness of the name given
in old times to the Valley of Mexico, Anahuac, that is, "By the Water-side." The peaks of Orizaba
and Perote were conspicuous to the east; to the north lay the silver-mountains of Pachuca;
and to the south-west a darker shade of green indicated the forests and plantations of the
tierra caliente, below Cuernavaca.

It was a novel sensation to be at an altitude where the barometer stands at 15-1/2 inches,
so that the pressure on our lungs was hardly more than one-half what we are accustomed to in
England; but we did not experience much inconvenience from it. The last thousand feet or so
had been very hard work, and we were obliged to stop every few steps, but on the comparatively
level edge of the crater we felt no difficulty in moving about.

Popocatepetl means "Smoking Mountain." The Indians naturally enough considered it to be the
abode of evil spirits, and told Cortes and his companions that they could never reach the top.
One of the Spaniards, Diego Ordaz, tried to climb to the summit, and got as far as the snow;
whereupon he returned, and got permission to put a burning mountain in his coat of arms, in
commemoration of the exploit! If, as he declared, a high wind was blowing, and showers of ashes
falling, his turning back was excusable, though his bragging was not. He seems to have afterwards
told Bernal Diaz that he got to the top, which we know, by Cortes' letters to Spain, was not
true. A few years later, Francesco Montano went up, and was lowered into the crater to get
sulphur. When Humboldt relates the story, in his New Spain, he seems incredulous about this;
but since the Essai Politique was written the same thing has been regularly done by the Indians,
as the merest matter of business, until the crater has been fairly worked out.

We took our last look at Mexico from the ridge of the crater, and, descending twenty feet at
a stride, soon reached the bottom of the cone. As far as we could see, the substance of the
hill seemed to be of basaltic lava, which was mostly covered with the lapilli which I have
spoken of before as ashes and volcanic sand. Even before we reached the pine-forest there was
evidence of the action of water, which had covered the slope of the mountain with beds of thick
compact tufa, composed of these lapilli mixed with fragments of lava. The water-courses had
cut deep channels through these beds, and down into the rock below; so that the streams from
the melted snow rushed down between walls of lava, in which traces of columnar structure were
observable.

The snow we had travelled over was sometimes dry and powdery, and sometimes hard and compact.
There were no glaciers, and no glacier-ice, properly so called. It never rains at this elevation;
and, though evaporation goes on rapidly with half the pressure taken off the air, and a great
increase in the intensity of the sun's rays, the snow either passes directly into vapour, or
carries the water off instantaneously, as it is formed. Only so much water seems to be produced
and re-frozen as suffices to make the snow hard, and in some favourable places near the rocks
to form lumps of ice, and some of those great icicles which the Spaniards brought down from
the mountain on their first expedition, so greatly astonishing their companions.

When we reached the rancho we thought of passing another night there; but the Indians who had
gone down to the valley for corn had not returned, and everything was eaten up except beans,
which are all very well as accessories to dinner, but our English digestions could not stand
living upon them; so we started at once for San Nícolas de los Ranchos. Our ride was down a
deep ravine, by the side of a mountain-torrent coming down from the snows of Popocatepetl;
and, when we stopped now and then to look behind us, we had one of the grandest views which
I have ever witnessed. The elements of the picture were simple enough. A deep gorge at our
feet, with a fierce torrent rushing down it, dark pine-trees all round us, and above us--on
either side--a snow-covered mountain towering up into the sky. We were just in the track of
the Spanish invaders, who crossed most likely by this very road between the two volcanos; and
they record the amazement which they felt that in the tropics snow should be unmelted upon
the mountains.

A few hours riding down the steep descent, and we were in the flat plain of Puebla. There were
our two mountains behind us, but now they looked as we had so often seen them before from a
distance. The power of realizing their size was gone, and with it most of their grandeur and
beauty. Nothing was left us but a vivid recollection of the wonderful scenes that were before
us a few hours ago, impressions not likely to be ever effaced from our minds, where the picture
of the great snowy cone seen in the bright moonlight, and the descent between the mountains,
remain indelibly impressed as the types of all that is most grand and impressive in the scenery
of lofty mountains.

We slept at San Nícolas de los Ranches, "St. Nicholas of the huts," where the shopkeeper, to
whom we had a letter, insisted upon turning out of his own room for us, and treated us like
princes. The reason of our often being provided with letters to the shopkeepers in small places,
was, that they are the only people who have houses fit for entertaining travellers. Many of
them are very rich, and in the United States they would call themselves merchants. Next morning
our Indian carrier, who had ascended the mountain without a veil, was brought in by our guide,
a pitiful object. All the skin of his face was peeling off, and his eyes were frightfully inflamed,
so that he was all but blind, and had to be led about. Fortunately, this blindness only lasts
for a time, and no doubt he got well in a few days.

We rode through the plain to Cholula. Our number was now four; for, besides Antonio, we had
engaged another servant a few days before. We wanted some one who knew this district well;
and when a friend of ours mentioned that there was a young man to be had who had a good horse
and was a smuggler by profession, we engaged him directly, and he proved a great acquisition.
Of course, from the nature of his trade, he knew every bypath between Mexico and the tobacco-districts
towards which we were going; he was always ready with an expedient whenever there was a difficulty,
he was never tired and never out of temper. As for the morality of his peculiar profession,
it probably does harm to the honesty of the people; but, considering it as a question of abstract
justice, we must remember that almost the whole of the taxes which the Mexicans are compelled
to pay to the general government are utterly wasted upon paying officials who do nothing but
intrigue, and keeping up armies which--far from being a protection to life and property--are
a permanent and most destructive nuisance. The contract between government and subject ought
to be a two-sided one; and when the government so entirely misuses the taxes paid by the people,
I am quite inclined to sympathize with the subjects who will not pay them if they can help it.

We scarcely entered the town of Cholula, which is a poor place now, though it was a great city
at the time of the Spanish Conquest. The Spanish city of Puebla, only a few miles off, quite
ruined it.

We went straight to the great pyramid, which lies close to the town, and which had been rising
before us like a hill during the last miles of our journey. This extraordinary structure is
perhaps the oldest ruin in Mexico, and certainly the largest. A close examination of its structure
in places where the outline is still to some extent preserved, and a comparison of it with
better preserved structures of the same kind, make it quite clear that it was a terraced teocalli,
resembling the drawing called the "Pyramid of Cholula," in Humboldt's Vues des Cordillères.
But let no one imagine that the well-defined and symmetrical structure represented in that
drawing is in the least like what we saw, and from which Humboldt made the rough sketch, which
he and his artist afterwards "idealized" for his great work. At the present day, the appearance
of the structure is that of a shapeless tree-grown hill; and until the traveller comes quite
close to it he may be excused for not believing that it is an artificial mound at all.

The pyramid is built of rows of bricks baked in the sun, and cemented together with mortar
in which had been stuck quantities of small stones, fragments of pottery, and bits of obsidian
knives and weapons. Between rows of bricks are alternate layers of clay. It was built in four
terraces, of which traces are still to be distinguished; and is about 200 feet high. Upon the
platform at the top stand some trees and a church. The sides front the four cardinal points,
and the base line is of immense length, over thirteen hundred feet, so that the ascent is very
gradual.

When we reached Cholula we sent the two men to enquire in the neighbourhood for antiquities,
of which numbers are to be found in every ploughed field round. At the top of the pyramid we
held a market, and got some curious things, all of small size however. Among them was a mould
for making little jackal-heads in the clay, ready for baking; the little earthen heads which
are found in such quantities in the country being evidently made by wholesale in moulds of
this kind, not modelled separately. We got also several terra-cotta stamps, used in old times
for stamping coloured patterns upon the native cloth, and perhaps also for ornamenting vases
and other articles of earthenware. Cholula used to be a famous place for making pottery, and
its red-and-black ware was famous at the time of the Conquest, but the trade now seems to have
left it. We were struck by observing that, though there was plenty of coloured pottery to be
found in the neighbourhood of the pyramid, the pyramid itself had only fragments of uncoloured
ware imbedded in its structure; which seems to prove that it was built before the art of colouring
pottery was invented.

They have cut a road through one corner of the pyramid, and this cutting exposed a chamber
within. Humboldt describes this chamber as roofed with blocks, each overlapping the one before,
till they can be made to meet by a block of ordinary size. This is the false arch so common
in Egypt and Peru, and in the ruined cities of Central America. Every child who builds houses
with a box of bricks discovers it for himself. The bridge at Tezcuco, already described, is
much more remarkable in its structure. Whether our inspection was careless, or whether the
chamber has fallen in since Humboldt's time, I cannot say, but we missed this peculiar roof.

There are several legends about the Pyramid of Cholula. That recorded by Humboldt on the authority
of a certain Dominican friar, Pedro de los Rios, I mention--not because of its intrinsic value,
which is very slight, but because it will enable us to see the way in which legends grew up
under the hands of the early missionaries, who were delighted to find fragments of Scripture-history
among the traditions of the Ancient Mexicans, and who seem to have taken down from the lips
of their converts, as native traditions, the very Bible-stories that they had been teaching
them, mixed however with other details, of which it is hard to say whether they were imagined
on purpose to fill up gaps in the story, or whether they were really of native traditional origin.

Pedro de los Rios' story tells us that the land of Anahuac was inhabited by giants; that there
was a great deluge, which devastated the earth; that all the inhabitants were turned into fishes,
except seven who took refuge in a cave (apparently with their wives). Years after the waters
had subsided, and the earth had been re-peopled by these seven men, their leader began to build
a vast pyramid, whose top should reach to heaven. He built it of bricks baked in the sun, which
were brought from a great distance, passing them from hand to hand by a file of men. The gods
were enraged at the presumption of these men, and they sent down fire from heaven upon the
pyramid, which caused its building to be discontinued. It is stated that at the time of the
Spanish Conquest, the inhabitants of Cholula preserved with great veneration a large aerolite,
which they said was the thunderbolt that fell upon the top of the pyramid when the fire struck it.

The history of the confusion of tongues seems also to have existed in the country, not long
after the Conquest, having very probably been learnt from the missionaries; but it does not
seem to have been connected with the Tower-of-Babel legend of Cholula. Something like it at
least appears in the Gemelli table of Mexican migrations, reproduced in Humboldt, where a bird
in a tree is sending down a number of tongues to a crowd of men standing below.

I think we need not hesitate in condemning the legend of Cholula, which I have just related,
as not genuine, or at least as partly of late fabrication. But we fortunately possess another
version of it, which shows the legend to have developed itself farther than was quite discreet.
A MS. history, written by Duran in 1579, and quoted by the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg, relates
that people built the pyramid to reach heaven, finding clay or mud ("terre glaise") and a very
sticky bitumen ("bitume fort gluant"), with which they began at once to build, &c. This is
evidently the slime or bitumen of the Book of Genesis; but I believe I may safely assert that
the Mexicans never used bitumen for any such purpose, and that it is not found anywhere near
Cholula.

The Aztec historians ascribe the building of the Pyramid of Cholula to the prophet Quetzalcoatl.
The legends which relate to this celebrated personage are to be found in writers on Mexican
history, and, more fully than elsewhere, in the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg's work.

I am inclined to consider Quetzalcoatl a real personage, and not a mythical one. He is said
to have been a white, bearded man, to have come from the East, to have reigned in Tollan, and
to have been driven out from thence by the votaries of human sacrifices, which he opposed.
He took refuge in Cholollan, now called Cholula (which means the "place of the fugitive"),
and taught the inhabitants to work in metals, to observe various fasts and festivals, to use
the Toltec calendar of days and years, and to perform penance to appease the gods.

A relic of the father of Quetzalcoatl is said to have been kept until after the Spanish Conquest,
when it was opened, and found to contain a quantity of fair human hair. The prophet himself
departed from Cholula, and put to sea in a canoe, promising to return. So strong was the belief
in the tradition of these events among the Aztecs, that when the Spaniards appeared on the
coast, they were supposed to be of the race of the prophet, and the strange conduct of Montezuma
to Cortes is to be ascribed to the influence of this belief.

There is a singular legend, mentioned by the Abbé Brasseur de Bourbourg, of a white man, with
a hooded robe and white beard, bearing a cross in his hand, who lands at Tehuantepec (on the
Pacific coast of Mexico), and introduces among the Indians auricular confession, penance, and
vows of chastity.

The coming of white, bearded men from the East, centuries before the Spanish invasion in the
16th century, and the introduction of new arts and rites by them in Mexico, is as certain as
most historical events of which we have only legendary knowledge. As to who they were I cannot
offer an opinion. There are, however, one or two points connected with the presence of the
Irish and Northmen in America in the 9th and following centuries--a period not very far from
that ascribed to Quetzalcoatl--which are worthy of notice.

The Scandinavian antiquarians make the "white-man's land" (Hvitramannaland) extend down as
far as Florida, on the very Gulf of Mexico. It is curious to notice the coincidence between
the remark of Bernal Diaz, that the Mexicans called their priests papa (more properly papahua),
and that in the old Norse Chronicle, which tells of the first colonization of Iceland by the
Northmen, and relates that they found living there "Christian men whom the Northmen call Papa."
These latter are shown by the context to have been Irish priests. The Aztec root teo (teo-tl,
God) comes nearer to the Greek and Latin, but is not unlike the Irish dia, and the Norse ty-r.
The Aztec root col (charcoal) is exactly the Norse kol (our word coat), but not so near to
the Irish gual. It is desirable to notice such coincidences, even when they are too slight
to ground an argument upon.

This seems to be the proper place to mention the many Christian analogies to be found in the
customs of the ancient Aztecs.

Children were sprinkled with water when their names were given to them. This is certainly true,
though the statement that they believed that the process purified them from original sin is
probably a monkish fiction. Water was consecrated by the priests, and was supposed thus to
acquire magical qualities. In the coronation of kings, anointing was part of the ceremony,
as well as the use of holy water. The festival of All Souls' Day reminds us of the Aztec feasts
of the Dead in the autumn of each year; and in Mexico the Indians still keep up some of their
old rites on that day. There was a singular rite observed by the Aztecs, which they called
the teoqualo, that is, "the eating of the god." A figure of one of their gods was made in dough,
and after certain ceremonies they made a pretence of killing it, and divided it into morsels,
which were eaten by the votaries as a kind of sacred food.

We may add to the list the habitual use of incense in the ceremonies: the existence of monasteries
and nunneries, in which the monks wore long hair, but the nuns had their hair cut off: and
the use of the cross as a religious emblem in Mexico and Central America.

Less certain is the recorded use of knotted scourges in performing penance, and the existence
of a peculiar kind of auricular confession.

It is difficult to ascribe this mass of coincidences to mere chance, and not to see in them
traces of connexion, more or less remote, with Christians. Perhaps these peculiar rites came,
with the Mexican system of astronomy, from Asia; or perhaps the white, bearded men from the
East may have brought them. It is true that such a supposition runs quite counter to the argument
founded on the ignorance of the Mexicans of common arts known in Europe and Asia. We should
have expected Christian missionaries to have brought with them the knowledge of the use of
iron, and the alphabet. Perhaps our increasing knowledge of the ancient Mexicans may some day
allow us to adopt a theory which shall at least have the merit of being consistent with itself;
but at present this seems impossible.

CHAPTER XI.

PUEBLA. NOPALUCÁN. ORIZABA. POTRERO.

We reached Puebla in the afternoon, and found it a fine Spanish city, with straight streets
of handsome stone houses, and paved with flag-stones. We rather wondered at the pasadizos,
a kind of arched stone-pavement across the streets at short intervals, very much impeding the
progress of the carriages, which had to go up and down them upon inclined planes. In the evening
we saw the use of them however, for a shower of rain came down which turned every street into
a furious river within five minutes after the first drop fell. For half an hour the pasadizos
did their duty, letting the water pass through underneath, while passengers could get across
the streets dryshod. At last, the flood swept clear along, over bridges and all; but this only
lasted a few minutes, and then the way was practicable again. The moveable iron bridges on
wheels, which are to be seen standing in the streets of Sicilian cities, ready to be wheeled
across them for the benefit of foot-passengers whenever the carriage-way is flooded, are on
the whole a better arrangement.

We should never have thought, from looking at Puebla, that it had just been undergoing a siege;
for, beyond a few patches of whitewash in the great square, where the cannon-balls had knocked
the houses about, there were no traces of it.

We made many enquiries about the siege, and found nothing to invalidate our former estimate
of twenty-five killed,--one per cent of the number stated in the government manifestos. Among
the casualties we heard of an Englishman who went out to see the fun, and was wounded in a
particularly ignominious manner as he was going back to his house.

Revolutions and sieges form curious episodes in the life of the foreign merchants in the Republic.
Their trade is flourishing, perhaps,--plenty of buyers and good prices; and hundreds of mules
are on the road, bringing up their wares from the coast. All at once there is a pronunciamiento.
The street-walls are covered with proclamations. Half the army takes one side, half the other;
and crowds of volunteers and self-made officers join them, in the hope of present pillage or
future emolument. Barricades appear in the streets; and at intervals there is to be heard the
roaring of cannon, and desultory firing of musketry from the flat roofs, killing a peaceable
citizen now and then, but doing little execution on the enemy.

Trade comes to a dead stop. Our merchant gets his house well furnished with provisions, shuts
the outer shutters, locks up the great gates, and retires into seclusion for a week or a fortnight,
or a month or two, as may be. At the time we were there he used to run no great risk, for neither
party was hostile to him; and if a stray cannon-ball did hit his house, or the insurgents shot
his cook going out on an expedition in search of fresh beef, it was only by accident.

Having no business to do, the counting-house would probably take stock, and balance the books;
but when this is finished there is little to be done but to practice pistol-shooting and hold
tournaments in the court-yard, and to teach the horses to rayar; while the head of the house
sits moodily smoking in his arm-chair, reckoning up how many of his debtors would be ruined,
and wondering whether the loaded mules with his goods had got into shelter, or had been seized
by one party or the other.

At last the revolution is over. The new president is inaugurated with pompous speeches. The
newspapers announce that now the glorious reign of justice, order, and prosperity has begun
at last. If the millennium had come, they could not make much more talk about it. Our unfortunate
friend, coming out of his den only to hear dismal news of runaway debtors and confiscated bales,
has to illuminate his house, and set to getting his affairs into something like order again.

Since we left the country things have got even worse. Formerly, all that the foreign merchants
had to suffer were the incidental miseries of a state of civil war. Now, the revolutionary
leaders put them in prison; and, if threats are not sufficient, they get forced loans out of
them, much as King John did out of his Jews.

Even in times of peace, foreign goods must be dear in Mexico. In a country where they have
to be carried nearly three hundred miles on mules' backs, and where credit is so long that
the merchant can never hope to see his money again in less than two years, he cannot be expected
to sell very cheaply. But the continual revolutions and the insecurity of property make things
far worse, and one almost wonders how foreign trade can go on at all.

One of our friends in Mexico had three or four hundred mules coming up the country laden with
American cotton for his mill, just when Haro's revolution began. He got off much better than
most people, however; for, greatly to the disgust of the legitimate authorities, he went down
into the enemy's camp, and gave the revolutionary chief a dollar a bale to let them go.

As may be supposed, commercial transactions have often very curious features here. Strange
things happen in the eastern states; but people there say that they are nothing to the doings
on the Pacific coast, where the merchants get up a revolution when their ships appear in the
offing, and turn out the Custom-house officers, who do not enter upon their functions again
until the rich cargos have started for the interior.

One little incident, which happened---I think--at Vera Cruz, rather amused us. When the Government
is hard-up, a favourite way of raising ready money is to sell--of course at a very low price--orders
upon the Custom-house, to pass certain quantities of goods, duty-free. Such a transaction as
this was concluded between the Minister of Finance and a merchant's house who gave hard dollars
in exchange for an order to pass so many hundred bales of cotton, free of duty. When the ship
arrived at port, however, the Yankee captain brought in his manifest with a broad grin upon
his face. The inspectors went down to the ship, and stood aghast. There were the bales of cotton,
but such bales! They had to be shoved and coaxed to get them up through the hatchways at all.
The Customhouse officials protested in vain. The order was for so many bales of cotton, and
these overgrown monsters were bales of cotton, and the merchants sent them up to Mexico in triumph.

To us, Puebla was not an interesting city. It was built by the Spaniards, and called Puebla
de los Angeles, because angels assisted in building the cathedral, which does no great credit
to their good taste. Its costly ornaments of gold, silver, jewels, and variegated marbles,
are most extraordinary. One does not know which to wonder at most, the value and beauty of
the materials, or the unmitigated ugliness of the designs.

We saw the festival of Corpus Christi while we were in Puebla; but were to a certain extent
disappointed in the display of plate and jewelled vestments for the clergy, whose attempt to
overthrow Comonfort's government had only resulted in themselves being heavily fined, and who
were in consequence keeping their wealth in the background, and making as little display as
possible. The most interesting part of the ceremonial to us was to see the processions of Indians
from the surrounding villages, walking crowned with flowers, and carrying Madonnas in bowers
of green branches and blossoms.

At the head of each procession walked an Indian beating a drum, tap, tap, tap, without a vestige
of time. The other processions with stoles and canopies, and the officials of the city in dress-coats
and yellow kid gloves, were paltry affairs enough.

Neither during this ceremonial, nor at Easter in the Capital were any miracles exhibited, like
the performances of the Madonna at Palermo, which the coachmen of the city carry about at Easter,
weeping real tears into a cambric pocket-handkerchief; nor is anything done in the country
like the lighting of the Greek fire, or the melting of the blood of St. Januarius.

Puebla pretty much belongs to the clergy, who are paramount there. A population of some sixty
thousand has seventy-two churches, some of them very large. It is the focus of the church-party,
whose steady powerful resistance to reform is one of the causes of the unhappy political state
of the country. As is usual in cathedral-towns, the morality of the people is rather lower
than elsewhere. I have said already that the revenues of the Mexican Church are very large.
Tejada estimates the income at twenty millions of dollars yearly, more than the whole revenue
of the State; but this calculation far exceeds that given by any other authority. He remarks
that the Church has always tried as much as possible to conceal its riches, and probably he
makes a very large allowance for this. At any rate, I think we may reasonably estimate the
annual income of the Church at $10,000,000, or £2,000,000, two-thirds of the income of the State.

There is nothing extraordinary in the Church having become very rich by the accumulations of
three centuries in a Spanish colony, where the manners and customs remained in the 18th century
to a great extent as they were in the 16th, and the practice of giving and leaving great properties
to the Church was in full vigour--long after it had declined in Europe. It is considered that
half the city of Mexico belongs to the Church. This seems an extraordinary statement; but,
if we remember that in Philip the Second's time half the freehold property of Spain belonged
to the Church, we shall cease to wonder at this. The extraordinary feature of the case is that,
counting both secular and regular clergy, there are only 4600 ecclesiastics in the country.
The number has been steadily decreasing for years. In 1826 it was 6,000; in 1844 it had fallen
to 5,200, in 1856 to 4,600, giving, on the lowest reckoning, an average of over £200 a year
for each priest and monk. A great part of this income is probably left to accumulate; but,
when we remember that the pay of the country curas is very small, often not more than £30 to
£50, there must be fine incomes left for the church-dignitaries and the monks. Now any one
would suppose that a profession with such prizes to give away would become more and more crowded.
Why it is not so I cannot tell. It is true that the lives of the ecclesiastics are anything
but respectable, and that the profession is in such bad odour that many fathers of families,
though good Catholics, will not let a priest enter their houses; but we do not generally find
Mexicans deterred by a little bad reputation from occupations where much money and influence
are to be had for very little work.

The ill conduct of the Mexican clergy, especially of the monks, is matter of common notoriety,
and every writer on Mexico mentions it, from the time of Father Gage--the English friar--who
travelled with a number of Spanish monks through Mexico in 1625, and described the clergy and
the people as he saw them. He was disgusted with their ways, and, going back to England, turned
Protestant, and died Vicar of Deal.

To show what monastic discipline is in Mexico, I will tell one story, and only one. An English
acquaintance of mine was coming down the Calle San Francisco late one night, and saw a man
who had been stabbed in the street close to the convent-gate. People sent into the convent
to fetch a confessor for the dying man, but none was to be had. There was only one monk in
the place, and he was bed-ridden. The rest were enjoying themselves in the city, or fast asleep
at their lodgings in the bosom of their families.

In condemning the Mexican clergy, some exception must be made. There are many of the country
curas who lead most exemplary lives, and do much good. So do the priests of the order of St.
Vincent de Paule, and the Sisters of Charity with whom they are associated; but then, few of
these, either priests or sisters, are Mexicans.

Among the curious odds and ends which we came upon in Puebla, in the shop of a dealer in old
iron and things in general, were two or three very curious old scourges, made of light iron
chains with projecting points on the links--terrific instruments, once in very general use.
Up to the present time, there are certain nights when penitents assemble in churches, in total
darkness, and kneeling on the pavement, scourge themselves, while a monk in the pulpit screams
out fierce exhortations to strike harder. The description carries us back at once to the Egyptian
origin of this strange custom; and we think of the annual festival of Isis, where the multitudes
scourged themselves in memory of the sufferings of Osiris. A story is told of a sceptical individual
who got admission to this ceremony by making great professions of devotion, and did terrific
execution on the backs of his kneeling fellow-penitents. Before he began, the place was resounding
with doleful cries and groans; but he noticed that the cry which arose when he struck was not
like these other sounds, but had quite a different accent. The practice of devotional scourging
is still kept up in Rome, but in a very mild form, as it appears that the penitents keep their
coats on, and only use a kind of miniature cat-o'-nine-tails of thin cord, with a morsel of
lead at the end of each tail, and not such bloodthirsty implements as those we found at Puebla.

It seemed to us that the great influence of the priests in Mexico was among the women of all
classes, the Indians, and the poorer and less educated half-castes. The men of the higher classes,
especially the younger ones, did not appear to have much respect for the priests or for religion,
and, indeed, seemed to be sceptical, after the manner of the French school of freethinking.
It was quite curious to see the young dandies, dressed in their finest clothes, at the doors
of the fashionable churches on Sunday morning. None of them seemed to go to mass, but they
simply went to stare at the ladies, who, as they came out, had to run the gauntlet through
a double line of these critical young gentlemen. As far as we could see, however, they did
not mind being looked at. The poorer mestizos and Indians, on the other hand, are still zealous
churchmen, and spend their time and money on masses and religious duties so perseveringly that
one wishes they had a religion which was of some use to them. As it is, I cannot ascertain
that Christianity has produced any improvement in the Mexican people. They no longer sacrifice
and eat their enemies, it is true, but against this we must debit them with a great increase
of dishonesty and general immorality, which will pretty well square the account.

Practically, there is not much difference between the old heathenism and the new Christianity.
We may put the dogmas out of the question. They hear them and believe in them devoutly, and
do not understand them in the least. They had just received the Immaculate Conception, as they
had received many mysteries before it; and were not a little delighted to have a new occasion
for decorating themselves and their churches with flowers, marching in procession, dancing,
beating drums, and letting off rockets by daylight, as their manner is. The real essence of
both religions is the same to them. They had gods, to whom they built temples, and in whose
honour they gave offerings, maintained priests, danced and walked in processions--much as they
do now, that their divinities might be favourable to them, and give them good crops and success
in their enterprises. This is pretty much what their present Christianity consists of. As a
moral influence, working upon the character of the people, it seems scarcely to have had the
slightest effect, except, as I said, in causing them to leave off human sacrifices, which were
probably not an original feature of their worship, but were introduced comparatively at a late
time, and had already been almost abolished by one king.

The Indians still show the greatest veneration for a priest; and Heller well illustrates this
feeling when he tells us how he happened to ride through the country in a long black cloak,
and the Indians he met on the road used to fall on their knees as he passed, and ask for his
blessing, regardless of the deep mud and their white trousers. However, this was ten years
before we were in the country, and I doubt whether the cloak would get so much veneration now.
The best measure of the influence of the Church is the fact that when Mexico adopted a republican
constitution, in imitation of that of the United States, it was settled that no Church but
that of Rome should be tolerated in the country; and this law still remains one of the fundamental
principles of the State, in which universal liberty and equality, freedom of the press, and
absolute religious intolerance form rather a strange jumble. It is curious to observe that,
though the Independence confirmed the authority of the Roman Catholic religion, it considerably
reduced the church-revenues, by making the payment of tithes a matter of mere option. The Church--of
course--diligently preaches the necessity of paying tithes, putting their obligation in the
catechism, between the ten commandments and the seven sacraments, and they still get a good
deal in this way.

We sent our horses to the bath at Pueblo. This is usually done once a week in the cities of
Mexico. We went once to see the process while we were in the capital, and were very much amused.
The horses had been to the place before, and turned in of their own accord through a gateway
in a shabby back street; and when they got into the courtyard, began to dance about in such
a frantic manner that the mozos could hardly hold them in while their saddles and bridles were
being taken off. Then they put their heads down, and bolted into a large shed, with a sort
of floor of dust several inches deep, in which six or eight other horses were rushing about,
kicking, prancing, plunging, and literally screaming with delight. I will not positively assert
that I saw an old white horse stand upon his head in a corner and kick with all his four legs
at once, but he certainly did something very much like it. Presently the old mozo walked into
the shed, with his lazo over his arm, and carelessly flung the noose across. Of course it fell
over the right horse's neck, when the animal was quiet in a moment, and walked out after the
old man in quite a subdued frame of mind. One horse came out after another in the same way,
took his swim obediently across a great tank of water, was rubbed down, and went off home in
high spirits.

Though slavery has long been abolished in the Republic, there still exists a curious "domestic
institution" which is nearly akin to it. It is not peculiar to the plains of Puebla, but flourishes
there more than elsewhere. It is called "peonaje," and its operation is in this wise. If a
debtor owes money and cannot pay it, his creditor is allowed by law to make a slave or peon
of him until the debt is liquidated. Though the name is Spanish, I believe the origin of the
custom is to be found in an Aztec usage which prevailed before the Conquest.

A peon means a man on foot, that is, a labourer, journeyman, or foot-soldier. We have the word
in English as "pioneer" and as the "pawn" among chessmen; but I think not with any meaning
like that it has come to bear in Mexico.

On the great haciendas in the neighbourhood of Puebla, the Indian labourers are very generally
in this condition. They owe money to their masters, and are slaves; nominally till they can
work off the sum they owe, but practically for their whole lives. Even should they earn enough
to be able to pay their debt, the contract cannot be cancelled so easily. A particular day
is fixed for striking a balance, generally, I believe, Easter Monday, just after a season when
the custom of centuries has made it incumbent upon the Indians to spend all that they have
and all that they can borrow upon church-fees, wax-candles, and rockets, for the religious
ceremonies of the season, and the drunken debauches which form an essential part of the festival.
The masters, or at least the administradors, are accused of mystifying the annual statement
of accounts between the labourer and the estate, and it is certain that the Indian's feeble
knowledge of arithmetic leaves him quite helpless in the hands of the bookkeeper; but whether
this is mere slander or not, we never had any means of ascertaining.

Long servitude has obliterated every feeling of independence from the minds of these Indians.
Their fathers were slaves, and they are quite content to be so too. Totally wanting in self-restraint,
they cannot resist the slightest temptation to run into debt; and they are not insensible to
the miserable advantage which a slave enjoys over a free labourer, that his master, having
a pecuniary interest in him, will not let him starve. They have a cat-like attachment to the
places they live in; and to be expelled from the estate they were born on, and turned out into
the world to get a living, we are told by writers on Mexico, is the greatest punishment that
can be inflicted upon them.

There was nothing that we could see in the appearance of these peons to distinguish them from
ordinary free Indians; and our having travelled hastily through the district where the system
prevails does not give us a right to judge of its working. We can but compare the opinions
of waiters who have studied it, and who speak of it in terms of the strongest reprobation,
as deliberately using the moral weakness of the Indians as a means of reducing them to slavery.
Sartorius, however, takes the other side, and throws the whole blame upon the careless improvident
character of the brown men, whose masters are obliged to lend them money to supply their pressing
wants, and must take the only security they can get. He says, and truly enough, that the system
works wretchedly both for masters and labourers. Any one who knows the working of the common
English system of allowing workmen to run into debt with the view of retaining them permanently
in their master's service may form some faint idea of the way in which this Mexican debt-slavery
destroys the energy and self-reliance of the people.

But in one essential particular Sartorius mis-states the case. It is not the money which the
masters lend the peons to help them in distress and sickness that keeps them in slavery. It
is the money spent in wax-candles and rockets, and such like fooleries, for Easter and All
Saints; in the reckless profusion of drunken feasts on the days of their patron saints, and
on the occasion of births, deaths, and marriages. These feasts are as utterly disproportioned
to the means of the givers as the Irish wakes which reduce whole families to beggary. The sums
of money spent upon them are provided by the owners of the estates, who know exactly how they
are to be spent. If they preferred that their labourers should be free from debt, they could
withhold this money; and their not doing so proves that it is their desire to keep the peons
in a state of slavery, and throws the whole blame of the system upon them.

I have spoken of the peons as Indians, and so they are for the most part in the districts we
visited; but travellers who have been in Chihuahua and other northern states tell stories of
creditors travelling through the country to collect their debts, and, where money was not forthcoming,
collecting their debtors instead,--not merely brown Indians, but also nearly white mestizos.

Mexico is one of the countries in which the contrast between great riches and great poverty
is most striking. No traveller ever enters the country without making this remark. The mass
of the people are hardly even with the world; and there are some few capitalists whose incomes
can scarcely be matched in England or Russia. Yet this state of things has not produced a permanent
aristocracy.

The general history of great fortunes repeats itself with monotonous regularity. Fortunate
miners or clever speculators, who have happened to possess the gift of accumulating in addition
to that of getting, often make colossal fortunes. Miners have made the greatest sums, and made
them most rapidly. Fortunes of two or three millions sterling are not uncommon now, and we
often meet with them in the history of the last century. They never seem to have lasted many
years. Before the Independence, the capitalist used to buy a patent of nobility, and leave
great sums to his children to maintain the new dignity; but they hardly ever seem to have done
anything but squander away their inheritance, and we find the family returning to its original
poverty by the third or fourth generation.

Mexico is an easy place to make money in, in spite of the continual disorders that prevail.
In the mining-districts most men make money at some time or other. The difficulty lies in keeping
it. There seems to be no training better suited for making a capitalist than the life of the
retail shopkeeper, especially in the neighbourhood of a mine. A good share of all the money
that is won and of all that is lost stops in his till. Whoever makes a lucky hit in a mining-speculation,
he has a share of the profits, and when there is a "good thing" going, he is on the spot to
profit by it.

When once a man becomes a capitalist, there are many very profitable ways of employing his
money. Mines and cotton-factories pay well, so do cattle-haciendas in the north, when honest
administradors can be got to manage them; and discounting merchants' bills is a lucrative business.
But far better than these ordinary investments are the monopolies, such as the farming of the
tobacco-duty, the mints, and those mysterious transactions with the government in which ready
cash is exchanged for orders to pass goods at the Custom-house, and the other financial transactions
familiar to those who know the shifts and mystifications of that astonishing institution, the
Finance-department of Mexico.

We rode from Puebla to Orizaba. Amozoque, the first town on the road, is a famous place for
spurs, and we bought some. They are of blue steel inlaid with strips of silver, and the rowel
is a sort of cogged wheel, from an inch and a half to three inches in diameter. (See page 220.)
They look terrific instruments, but really the cogs or points of the rowels are quite blunt,
and they keep the horse going less by hurting him than by their incessant jingling, which is
increased by bits of steel put on for the purpose. Monstrous as the spurs now used are, they
are small in comparison with those of a century or two ago. One reads of spurs, of gold and
silver, with rowels in the shape of five-pointed stars six inches in diameter. These have quite
gone out now, and seem to have been melted up, for they are hardly ever to be seen; but we
bought at the baratillo of Mexico spurs of steel quite as large as this.

My companion sent to the Art-exhibition at Manchester a couple of pairs of the ordinary spurs
of the country, such as we ourselves and everybody else wore. They were put among the mediæval
armour, and excited great admiration in that capacity!

We slept at Nopalucán that night, and rode on next day to San Antonio de Abajo, a little out-of-the-way
village at the foot of the mountain of Orizaba. Our principal adventure in the day's ride was
that, finding that our road made a détour of a mile or so round a beautiful piece of green
turf, we boldly struck across it, and nearly lamed our horses thereby; for the ground was completely
undermined by moles, and at every third step the horses' feet went into a deep hole. We had
to get off and lead them back to the road.

Orizaba is the great feature in the scenery of this district of Mexico. It is one point in
the line of volcanos which stretches across the continent from east to west. It is a conical
mountain, like Popocatepetl, and about the same height; measurements vary from twenty feet
higher to sixty feet lower. The crater has fallen in on one side, leaving a deep notch clearly
visible from below. At present, as we hear from travellers who have ascended it, the crater,
like that of Popocatepetl, is in the condition of a solfatara, sending out jets of steam and
sulphurous acid gas. About three centuries ago its eruptions were frequent; and its Mexican
name, Citlaltepetl, "Mountain of the Star," carries us back to the time when it showed in the
darkness a star-like light from its crater, like that of Stromboli at the present time, when
one sees it from a distance.

San Antonio de Abajo is a quaint little village, frequented by muleteers and smugglers. Tobacco,
the principal contraband article, is grown in the plains just below; and, once carried up into
the paths among the mountains, it is hard for any custom-house officer to catch sight of it.

When there was a government, there used sometimes to be fighting between the revenue-officers
and the smugglers; but now, if there is a meeting, a few dollars will settle the disputed question
to the satisfaction of both parties, so that the contraband trade, though profitable, is by
no means so exciting as it used to be.

On the road towards San Antonio we saw ancient remains in the banks by the road-side, but had
no time for a regular examination. We slept on damp mattresses in a room of the inn, where
the fowls roosted on the rafters above our heads, and walked over our faces in the early morning
in an unpleasant manner. We started before daybreak, and a descent down a winding road, through
a forest of pines and oaks, brought us by seven in the morning from the region of pines and
barley down to the district where tobacco and the sugar-cane flourish, at the level of 3,000
to 4,000 feet above the sea.

We met a jaunty-looking party in the valley, two women and five or six men, all on good horses,
and dressed in the extreme of fashion which the Mexican ranchero affects--broad-brimmed hats
with costly gold and silver serpents for hat-bands, and clothes and saddles glittering with
silver. Martin rode up to us as they passed, and said he knew them well for the boldest highwaymen
in Mexico. Had we started an hour or two later we should have met them in the forest, and have
had an adventure to tell of. As it was, the descent of three thousand feet had brought us from
a land of thieves to a region where highway robbery is never known, unless when a party from
the high lands come down on a marauding expedition. It is an unquestionable fact that the Mexican
robbers, whose exploits have become a matter of world-wide notoriety, all belong to the cold
region of the plateaus, the tierra fría. Once down in the tierra templada, or the tierra caliente,
the temperate or the hot regions, you hear no more of them; or at least this is the case in
the parts of Mexico we visited. The reason is clear; it is only on the plateaus that the whites,
preferring a region where the climate was not unlike that of Castile, settled in large numbers;
so that it is there that Creoles and mestizos predominate, and they are the robbers.

We rode over great beds of gravel, cut up in deep trenches by the mountain-streams; then along
the banks of the river, among plantations of tobacco, looking like beds of lettuces. As we
were riding along the valley, we saw before us a curious dark cloud, hanging over some fields
near the river. Our men, who had seen the appearance before, recognized it at once as a flight
of locusts, and, turning out of the high-road, we came upon them just as they had settled on
a clump of trees in a meadow. They covered the branches and foliage until only the outline
of the trees was visible, while the rest of the swarm descended on a green hedge, and on the
grass. As for us, we went and knocked them down with our riding-whips, and carried away specimens
in our hats; but the survivors took no manner of notice of us, and in about ten minutes they
left the trees mere skeletons, leafless and stripped of their bark, and moved across the field
in a dense mass towards some fruit-trees a little way off. For days after this, when we met
with travellers on the road, or stopped at the door of a cottage to get a light or something
to drink, and chatted a few minutes with the inhabitants, we found that our descent of the
mountain-pass had brought us into a new set of interests. News of the government and of the
revolutionary party excited no curiosity,--talk of robbers still less. At every house the question
was, "¿De donde vienen, Señores?" "Where are you from, gentlemen?"--and when we told them,
"¿Y estaban allí las langostas?" "And were the locusts there?" The whole country was being
devastated by them; and the large rewards offered for them to the peasants, though they caused
dead locusts to be brought by tons, seemed hardly to diminish their numbers. Firing guns had
some slight effect in driving off the swarms of locusts; and in some places the reports of
muskets were to be heard, at short intervals, all day long. Some idea of the destruction caused
by the locusts may be formed from the fact that in six weeks they doubled the price of grain
in the district. Fortunately, they only appear in such numbers about once in half a century.

We had ridden a hundred miles over a rough country in the last forty-eight hours, and were
glad to get a rest at Orizaba; but on the morning of the third day we were in the saddle again,
accompanied by a new friend, the English administrador of the cotton-mill at Orizaba. Until
we left the high-road, the country seemed well cultivated, with plantations of tobacco, coffee,
and sugar-cane; but as soon as we turned into by-paths and struck across country, we found
woods and grassy patches, but little tilled ground, until we arrived at the Indian village
which we had gone out of our way to visit, Amatlán, that is to say, "The place of paper."

In its arrangement this village was like the one that I have already described, with its scattered
huts of canes and palm-leaf thatch; but the vegetation indicated a more tropical climate. Large
fields, the joint property of the community, were cultivated with pine-apples in close rows,
now just ripening; and bananas, with broad leaves and heavy clusters of fruit, were growing
in the little garden belonging to each hut. The inhabitants stared at us sulkily, and gave
short answers to our questions. We went to the cottage of the Indian alcalde, who declared
that there was nothing to eat or drink in the village, though we were standing in his doorway
and could see the strings of plantains hanging to the roof, and the old women were hard at
work cooking. However, when Mr. G. explained who he was, the old man became more placable;
and we were soon sitting on mats and benches inside the hut, on the best of terms with the
whole village. The life of these people is simple enough, and not unsuited to their beautiful
climate. The white men have never interfered much with them; and it has been their pride for
centuries to keep as much as possible from associating with Europeans, whom they politely speak
of as coyotes, jackals. The priest was a mestizo, and, as the Alcalde said, he was the only
coyote in the settlement; but his sacred office neutralized the dislike that his parishioners
felt for his race.

These Indian communities always rejoiced in being able to produce for themselves almost everything
necessary for their simple wants; but of late years the law of supply and demand has begun
to undermine this principle, and the cotton-cloth, spun and woven at home, is yielding to the
cheaper material supplied by the factories. Though so averse to receiving Europeans among them,
they do not object to go themselves to work for good wages on the plantations. Those who leave
their native place, however, bring back with them tastes and wants hitherto unknown, and inconsistent
with their primitive way of life.

Another habit of theirs brings them into contact with the "reasonable people," not to their
advantage. They are excessively litigious, and their continual law-suits take them to the large
towns where the courts of justice are held, and where lawyers' fees swallow up a large proportion
of their savings. There is a natural connexion between farming and law-suits; and the taste
for writs and hard swearing is as remarkable among this agricultural people as it is among
our own small farmers in England.

Theoretically, the Indians in their villages live under the general government, like any other
citizens; for, since the establishment of the republic, the civil disabilities which had kept
them down for three centuries were all abolished at a sweep, and the brown people have their
votes, and are eligible for any office. Practically, these advantages do not come to much at
present, for custom, which is stronger than law, keeps them under the government of their own
aristocracy, composed of certain families whose nobility dates beyond the Conquest, and was
always recognized by the Spaniards. These noble Indians seem to be pretty much as dirty, as
ignorant, and as idle as the plebeians--the ordinary field-labourers or "earth-hands" (tlalmaitl),
as they were called in ancient times,--and a stranger cannot recognize their claims to superiority
by anything in their houses, dress, language, or bearing; nevertheless, they are the patrician
families, and republicanism has not yet deprived them of their power over the other Indians.
In early times, when men of white or mixed blood were few in the country, it suited the Spanish
government to maintain the authority of these families, who collected the taxes and managed
the estates of the little communities. The common people were the sufferers by this arrangement,
for the Alcaldes of their own race cheated them without mercy, and were harder upon them than
even their white rulers, just as on slave-estates a black driver is much severer than a white one.

Near some of the houses we noticed that curious institution--the temazcalli, which corresponds
exactly to the Russian vapour-bath. It is a sort of oven, into which the bather creeps on all
fours, and lies down, and the stones at one end are heated by a fire outside. Upon these stones
the bather sprinkles cold water, which fills the place with suffocating steam. When he feels
himself to have been sufficiently sweated, he crawls out again, and has jars of cold water
poured over him; whereupon he dresses himself (which is not a long process, as he only wears
a shirt and a pair of drawers), and so goes in to supper, feeling much refreshed. If he would
take the cold bath only, and keep the hot one for his clothes, which want it sadly, it would
be all the better for him, for the constant indulgence in this enervating luxury weakens him
very much. One would think the bath would make the Indians cleanly in their persons, but it
hardly seems so, for they look rather dirtier after they have been in the temazcalli than before,
just as the author of A Journey due North says of the Russian peasants.

To us the most interesting question about the Mexican Indians of this district was this, Why
are there so few of them? There are five thousand square leagues in the State of Vera Cruz,
and about fifty inhabitants to the square league. Now, let us consider half the State, which
is at a low level above the sea, as too hot and unhealthy for men to flourish in, and suppose
the whole population concentrated on the other half, which lies upon the rising ground from
three thousand to six thousand feet above the sea. This is not very far from the truth, and
gives us one hundred inhabitants to the square league--about one-sixth of the population of
the plains of Puebla, in a climate which may be compared to that of North Italy, and where
the chief products are maize and European grain.

In the district of the lower temperate region, which we are now speaking of, nature would seem
to have done everything to encourage the formation of a dense population. In the lower part
of this favoured region the banana grows. This plant requires scarcely any labour in its cultivation;
and, according to the most moderate estimate, taking an acre of wheat against an acre of bananas,
the bananas will support twenty times as many people as the wheat. Though it is a fruit of
sweet, rather luscious taste, and only acceptable to us Europeans as one small item of our
complicated diet, the Indians who have been brought up in the districts where it flourishes
can live almost entirely upon it, just as the inhabitants of North Africa live upon dates.

In the upper portion of this district, where the banana no longer flourishes, nutritious plants
produce an immense yield with easy cultivation. The yucca which produces cassava, rice, the
sweet potato, yams, all flourish here, and maize produces 200 to 300 fold. According to the
accepted theory among political economists, where the soil produces with slight labour an abundant
nutriment for man, there we ought to find a teeming population, unless other counteracting
causes are to be found.

The history of the country, as far as we can get at it, indicates a movement in the opposite
direction. Judging from the numerous towns the Spanish invaders found in the district, the
numbers of armed men they could raise, and the abundance of provisions, we must reckon the
population at that time to have been more dense than at present; and the numerous ruins of
Indian settlements that exist in the upper temperate region are unquestionable evidence of
the former existence of an agricultural people, perhaps ten times as numerous as at present.
The ruins of their fortifications and temples are still to be seen in great numbers, and the
soil all over large districts is full of the remains of their pottery and weapons.

How far these settlements were depopulated by wars before the Spanish Conquest, it is not easy
to say. During the Conquest itself they did not offer much resistance to the European invaders,
and consequently they escaped the wholesale destruction which fell upon the more patriotic
inhabitants of the higher regions. Since that time the country has been peaceable enough; and
even since the Mexican Independence, the wars and revolutions which have done so much injury
to the inhabitants of the plateaus have not been much felt here.

In reasoning upon Mexican statistics we have to go to a great extent upon guess-work. A very
slight investigation, however, shows that the calculation made in Mexico, that the population
increases between one and two per cent. annually, is incorrect. The present population of the
country is reckoned at a little under eight millions; and in 1806, it seems, from the best
authorities we can get, to have been a little under six millions. Even this rate of increase,
one-third every half-century, is far above the rate of increase since the Conquest; for, at
that rate, a population a little over a million and a quarter would have brought up the number
to what it is at present, and we cannot at the lowest estimation suppose the inhabitants after
the siege of Mexico to have been less than three or four millions. So that, badly as Mexico
is now going on with regard to the increase of its population, about ½ per cent. per annum,
while England increases over 1-1/2 per cent., and the United States twice as much, we may still
discern an improvement upon the times of the Spanish dominion, when it was almost stationary.

Why then has this fertile and beautiful country only a small fraction of the number of inhabitants
that formerly lived in it? That it is not caused by the climate being unfavourable to man is
clear, for this district is free from the intense heat and the pestilential fevers of the low
lands which lie nearer the sea.

It is a noticeable fact that the remains of the old settlements generally lie above the district
where the banana grows; and the higher we rise above the sea, the more abundant do we find
the signs of ancient population, until we reach the level of 8,000 feet or a little higher.
The actual inhabitants at the present day are distributed according to the same rule, increasing
in numbers, according to the elevation, from 3,000 to 8,000 feet, after which the severity
of the climate causes a rapid decrease.

In making these observations, I leave out of the question the hot unhealthy coast-lands of
the tierra caliente, and the cold and comparatively sterile plains of the tierra fría, and
confine myself to that part of the country which lies between the altitudes of 3,000 and 8,000
feet, between which limits the European races flourish under circumstances of climate which
also suited the various Mexican races, who probably came from a colder northern country. Now,
if we begin to descend from the level of the Mexican plateau--say 8,000 feet above the sea--we
find that less and less labour will provide nourishment for the cultivator of the soil, until
we reach the limit of the banana, where the inhabitants ought to be crowded together like Chinese
on their rice-grounds, or the inhabitants of Egypt in the time of Herodotus. Exactly the opposite
rule takes effect; the banana-country is a mere wilderness, and the higher the traveller rises
the more abundant become both present population and the remains of ancient settlements.

I suppose the reason of this is to be found in the habits and constitution of the tribes who
colonized the country, and preferred to settle in a climate resembling that of their native
land, without troubling themselves about the extra labour it would cost them to obtain their
food. The European invaders have acted precisely in the same way; and the distribution of the
white and partly white inhabitants of the country follows the same rule as that of the Indians.

So far the matter is intelligible, on the principle that the constitution and habits of the
races which have successively taken up their residence in the country have been strong enough
to prevail over the rule which regulates the supply of men by the abundance of food; but this
does not explain the fact of an actual diminution of the inhabitants of the lower temperate
districts. They were not mere migratory tribes, staying for a few years before moving forward.
They had been settled in the country long enough to be perfectly acclimatized; and yet, under
circumstances apparently so favourable to their increase, they have been diminishing for centuries,
and are perhaps even doing so now.

The only intelligible solution I can find for this problem is that given by Sartorius, whose
work on Mexico is well known in Germany, and has been translated and published in England.
This author's remarks on the condition of the Indians are very valuable; and, as he was for
years a planter in this very district, he may be taken as an excellent authority on the subject.
He considers the evil to lie principally in the diet and habits of the people. The children
are not weaned till very late, and then are allowed to feed all day without restriction on
boiled maize, or beans, or whatever other vegetable diet may be eaten by the family. The climate
does not dispose them to take much exercise; so that this unwholesome cramming with vegetable
food has nothing to counteract its evil effects, and the poor little children get miserably
pot-bellied and scrofulous,--an observation of which we can confirm the truth. A great proportion
of the children die young, and those that grow up have their constitutions impaired. Then they
live in close communities, and marry "in-and-in," so that the effect of unhealthy living becomes
strengthened into hereditary disease; and habitual intemperance does its work upon their constitutions,
though the quantities of raw spirits they consume appear to produce scarcely any immediate
effect. Among a race in this bodily condition, the ordinary epidemics of the country--cholera,
small-pox, and dysentery--make fearful havoc. Whole villages have often been depopulated in
a few days by these diseases; and a deadly fever which used to appear from time to time among
the Indians, until the last century, sometimes carried off ten thousand and twenty thousand
at once. It seemed to me worth while to make some remarks about this question, with a view
of showing that the theory as to the relation between food and population, though partly true,
is not wholly so; and that in the region of which we have been speaking it can be clearly shown
to fail.

After spending a long morning with the Indians and their cura, we took quite an affectionate
leave of them. Their last words were an apology for making us pay threepence apiece for the
pineapples which we loaded our horses with. In the season, they said, twelve for sixpence is
the price, but the fruit was scarce and dear as yet.

Our companion, besides being engaged in the Orizaba cotton-mill, was one of the owners of the
sugar-hacienda of the Potrero, below Cordova, and we all rode down there together from the
Indian village, and spent the evening in walking about the plantation, and inspecting the new
machinery and mills. It was a pleasant sight to see the people coming to the well with their
earthen jars, after their work was done, in an unceasing procession, laughing and chattering.
They were partly Indian, but with a considerable admixture of negro blood, for many black slaves
were brought into the country in old times by the Spanish planters. Now, of course, they and
their descendants are free, and the hotter parts of Mexico are the paradise of runaway slaves
from Louisiana and Texas; for, so far from their race being despised, the Indian women seek
them as husbands, liking their liveliness and good humour better than the quieter ways of their
own countrymen. Even Europeans settled in Mexico sometimes take wives of negro blood.

I have never noticed in any country so large a number of mixed races, whose parentage is indicated
by their features and complexion. In Europe, the parent races are too nearly alike for the
children of such mixed marriages to be strikingly different from either parent. In America
and the West Indies we are familiar with the various mixtures of white and negro, mulatto,
quadroon, &c.; but in Mexico we have three races, Spanish, pure Mexican, and Negro, which,
with their combinations, make a list of twenty-five varieties of the human race, distinguishable
from one another, and with regular names, which Mayer gives in his work on Mexico, such as
mulatto, mestizo, zambo, chino, and so forth. Here all the brown Mexican Indians are taken
as one race, and the Red Indians of the frontier-states are not included at all. If we come
to dividing out the various tribes which have been or still are existing in the country, we
can count over a hundred and fifty, with from fifty to a hundred distinct languages among them.

Out of this immense variety of tribes, we can make one great classification. The men of one
race are brown in complexion, and have been for ages cultivators of the land. It is among them
only that the Mexican civilization sprang up, and they still remain in the country, having
acquiesced in the authority of the Europeans, and to a great extent mingled with them by marriage.
This class includes the Aztecs, Acolhuans, Chichemecs, Zapotecs, &c., the old Toltecs, the
present Indians of Central America, and, if we may consider them to be the same race, the nations
who huilt the now ruined cities of Palenque, Copan, Uxmal, and so forth. The other race is
that of the Red Indians who inhabit the prairie-states of North Mexico, such as the Apaches,
Comanches, and Navajos. They are hunters, as they always were, and they will never preserve
their existence by adopting agriculture as their regular means of subsistence, and settling
in peace among the white men. As it has been with their countrymen further north, so it will
be with them; a few years more, and the Americans will settle Chihuahua and Sonora, and we
shall only know these tribes by specimens of their flint arrow-heads and their pipes in collections
of curiosities, and their skulls in ethnological cabinets.

One of the strangest races (or varieties, I cannot say which) are the Pintos of the low lands
towards the Pacific coast. A short time before we were in the country General Alvarez had quartered
a whole regiment of them in the capital; but when we were there they had returned with their
commander into the tierra caliente towards Acapulco. They are called "Pintos" or painted men,
from their faces and bodies being marked with great daubs of deep blue, like our British ancestors;
but here the decoration is natural and cannot be effaced.

They have the reputation of being a set of most ferocious savages; and, badly armed as they
are with ricketty flint- or match-locks, and sabres of hoop-iron, they are the terror of the
other Mexican soldiery, especially when the war has to be carried on in the hot pestilential
coast-region, their native country.

CHAR XII.

CHALCHICOMULA. JALAPA. VERA CRUZ. CONCLUSION.

The mountain-slopes which descend from the Sierra Madre eastward toward the sea are furrowed
by barrancas--deep ravines with perpendicular sides, and with streams flowing at the bottom.
But here all these barrancas run almost due east and west, so that our journey from Vera Cruz
to Mexico was made, as far as I can recollect, without crossing one. Now, the case was quite
different. We had to go from the Potrero to the city of Jalapa, about fifty miles on the map,
nearly northward, and to get over these fifty miles cost us two days and a half of hard riding.

By the road it cannot be much less than eighty miles; but people used to tell us that, during
the American war, an Indian went from Orizaba to Jalapa with despatches within the twenty-four
hours, probably by mountain-paths which made it a little shorter. He came quite easily into
Jalapa at the same shuffling trot which he had kept up almost without intermission for the
whole distance. This is the Indian's regular pace when he is on a journey, and I believe that
the Red Indians of the north have a similar gait.

