Sir William Chester, Kt.--It is said of this gentleman in all the Baronetages, that "he was
a great benefactor to the city of London in the time of Edward VI., and that he became so strictly
religious, that for a considerable time before his death he retired from all business, entered
himself a fellow-commoner at Cambridge, lived there some years' and was reputed a learned man."
Did he take any degree at Cambridge, and to what college or hall did he belong? Must there
not be some records in the University which will yield this information? I observe the "Graduati
Cantabrigienses" only commence in 1659 in the printed list; but there must be older lists than
this at Cambridge. Collins mentions that he was so conspicuous in his zeal for the Reformed
religion, that he ran great risk of his life in Queen Mary's reign, and that one of his servants
was burnt in Smithfield. Can any one inform me of his authority for this statement?

TEWARS.

Canning on the Treaty of 1824 between the Netherlands and Great Britain.--When and under what
circumstances did Canning use the following words?--

    "The results of this treaty [of 1824 between England and Holland, to
    regulate their respective interests in the East Indies] were an
    admission of the principles of free trade. A line of demarcation was
    drawn, separating our territories from theirs, and ridding them of
    their settlements on the Indian continent. All these objects are now
    attained. We have obtained Sincapore, we have got a free trade, and in
    return we have given up Bencoolen."

Where are these words to be found, and what is the title of the English paper called by the
{366} French Courier du Commerce?--From the Navorscher.

L. D. S.

Ireland a bastinadoed Elephant.--"And Ireland, like a bastinadoed elephant, kneeled to receive
her rider." This sentence is ascribed by Lord Byron to the Irish orator Curran. Diligent search
through his speeches, as published in the United States, has been unsuccessful in finding it.
Can any of your readers "locate it," as we say in the backwoods of America? A bastinado properly
is a punishment inflicted by beating the soles of the feet: such a flagellation could not very
conveniently be administered to an elephant. The figure, if used by Curran, has about it the
character of an elephantine bull.

[Old English W]

Philadelphia.

Memorial Lines by Thomas Aquinas.--

    "Thomas Aquinas summed up, in a quaint tetrastic, twelve causes which
    might found sentences of nullity, of repudiation, or of the two kinds
    of divorce; to which some other, as monkish as himself, added two more
    lines, increasing the causes to fourteen, and to these were afterwards
    added two more. The former are [here transcribed from] the note:

     'Error, conditio, votum, cognatio, crimen,
      Cultûs disparitas, vis, ordo, ligamen, honestas,
      Si sis affinis, si forte cöire nequibis,
      Si parochi, et duplicis desit præsentia testis,
      Raptave si mulier, parti nec reddita tutæ;
      Hæc facienda vetant connubia, facta retractant.'"--From Essay on
          Scripture Doctrines of Adultery and Divorce, by H. V. Tabbs,
          8vo.: Lond. 1822.

The subject was proposed, and a prize of fifty pounds awarded to this essay, by the Society
for Propagating Christian Knowledge in the Diocese of St. David's in 1821. This appears to
me to have been a curious application of its funds by such a society. Can any of your readers
explain it?

BALLIOLENSIS.

"Johnson's turgid style"--"What does not fade?"--Can any of your readers tell me where to find
the following lines?

 "I own I like not Johnson's turgid style,
  That gives an inch th' importance of a mile,"
              &c. &c.

And

 "What does not fade? The tower which long has stood
  The crash of tempests, and the warring winds,
  Shook by the sure but slow destroyer, Time,
  Now hangs in doubtful ruins o'er its base,"
              &c. &c.

A. F. B.

Meaning of "Lane," &c.--By what process of development could the Anglo-Saxon laen (i. e. the
English word lane, and the Scottish loaning) have obtained its present meaning, which answers
to that of the limes of the Roman agrimensores?

What is considered to be the English measurement of the Roman juger, and the authorities for
such measurement?

What is the measurement of the Anglo-Saxon hyde, and the authorities for such measurement?

H.

Theobald le Botiller.--What Theobald le Botiller did Rose de Vernon marry? See Vernon, in Burke's
Extinct Peerage; Butler, in Lynch's Feudal Dignities; and the 2nd Butler (Ormond), in Lodge's
Peerage.

Y. S. M.

William, fifth Lord Harrington.--Did William, fifth Lord Harrington, marry Margaret Neville
(see Burke's Extinct Peerage) or Lady Catherine Courtenay? The latter is given in Burke's Peerage
and Baronetage, in Sir John Harrington's pedigree.

Y. S. M.

Singular Discovery of a Cannon-ball.--A heavy cannon-shot, I should presume a thirty-two pound
ball, was found embedded in a large tree, cut down some years since on the estate of J. W.
Martin, Esq., at Showborough, in the parish of Twyning, Gloucestershire. There was never till
quite lately any house of importance on the spot, nor is there any trace of intrenchments to
be discovered. The tree stood at some distance from the banks of the Avon, and on the other
side of that river runs the road from Tewkesbury through Bredon to Pershore. The ball in question
is marked with the broad arrow. From whence and at what period was the shot fired?

FRANCIS JOHN SCOTT.

Tewkesbury.

Scottish Castles.--It is a popular belief, and quoted frequently in the Statistical Account
of Scotland, and other works referring to Scottish affairs, that the fortresses of Edinburgh
Castle, Stirling Castle, Dumbarton Castle, Blackness Castle, were appointed by the Articles
of Union between England and Scotland to be kept in repair and garrisoned. Can any of your
readers refer to the foundation for this statement? for no reference in to be found to the
subject in the Articles of Union.

SCRYMZEOUR.

Edinburgh.

Sneezing.--Concerning sneezing, it is a curious circumstance that if any one should sneeze
in company in North Germany, those present will say, "Your good health;" in Vienna, gentlemen
in a café will take off their hats, and say, "God be with you" and in Ireland Paddy will say,
"God bless your honour," or "Long life to your honour." I understand that in Italy and Spain
similar expressions are used and I think I remember {367} hearing, that in Bengal the natives
make a "salam" on these occasions.

There is also, I believe, a popular idea among some of sneezing having some connexion with
Satanic agency; and I lately met with a case where a peculiar odour was invariably distinguishable
by two sisters, on a certain individual violently sneezing.

I shall be very much obliged if any of your readers can furnish me with any facts, theories,
or popular ideas upon this subject.

MEDICUS.

Spenser's "Fairy Queen."--Allow me to employ an interval of leisure, after a visit to the remains
of Kilcolman Castle, in inquiring whether any of your Irish readers can afford information
respecting the existence of the long missing books of the Fairy Queen? Mrs. Hall, in her work
on Ireland (vol. i. pp. 93, 94.), says that--

    "More than mere rumour exists for believing that the lost books have
    been preserved, and that the MS. was in the possession of a Captain
    Garrett Nagle within the last forty years."

W. L. N.

Buttevant, co. Cork.

Poema del Cid.--Is there any edition of the Poema del Cid besides the one published by Sanchez
(Poesias Castellanas anteriores al siglo XV.), and reprinted by Ochoa, and appended likewise
to an edition of Ochoa's Tesoro de los Romanceros, &c., published at Barcelona in 1840? I shall
feel obliged by being referred to an edition in a detached form, with glossary and notes, if
such there be.

J. M. B.

The Brazen Head.--As upon two former occasions, through the useful and interesting pages of
"N. & Q.," have been enabled to obtain information which I could procure in no other way, I
am glad to have an opportunity of recording the obligations I myself, like many more, am under
to "N. & Q.," and to some of your talented and kindly correspondents. Being anxious still farther
to trespass upon your space, I take this opportunity of alike thanking you and them.--Could
any reader of "N. & Q." inform me whether more than two numbers of The Brazen Head were ever
published? Through the great courtesy of talented correspondent of "N. & Q." from Worcester,
I have the first two; but I am anxious, for a literary purpose, to ascertain whether the publication
was continued after.

A. F. A. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

"The Basilics."--What is the manuscript called the "Basilics" in the following passage, which
occurs in a cotemporary MS., "Memoirs of the Life of the Right Hon. John Lord Scudamore, Viscount
Sligo in Ireland," in the library of P. Howard, Esq., at Corby Castle? Is it known where it
is now preserved?

Have these memoirs been printed? Lord S. was born in 1600, and was ambassador to France when
this circumstance occurred.

    "There having been intelligence given to his Excellence by that
    renowned person, and his then great acquaintance, Mons. Grotius, lieger
    in Paris for the crown of Sweden, of a very valuable manuscript of many
    volumes, being the body of the civil law in Greek, commonly called the
    'Basilics,' in the hands of the heirs of the famous lawyer lately
    deceased, Petrus Faber,--desirous to enrich his country with this
    treasure, he transacted and agreed with the possessors for the price of
    it, which was no less than 500l. But when it should have been
    delivered, and the money was ready to be paid down, Cardinal Richelieu
    (the great French minister of state at that time) having notice of the
    transaction interposed, and forbad the going on upon the contract, as
    thinking it would have been a diminution to their nation to permit such
    a prize to come into the hands of strangers, and by their charge and
    labour be communicated to the world."

W. C. TREVELYAN.

Wallington.

    [Basilica is a name given to a digest of laws commenced by the Emperor
    Basilius in the year 867, and completed by his son Leo the philosopher
    in the year 880, the former having carried the work as far as forty
    books, and the latter having added twenty more, in which state it was
    published. The complete edition of Charles Annibal Fabrot, which
    appeared at Paris in 1647, proved of great service to the study of
    ancient jurisprudence. It is contained in seven volumes folio, and
    accompanied with Latin version of the text, as well as of the Greek
    scholia subjoined. See a valuable article on the Greek texts of the
    Roman law, in the Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. vii. p. 461.--The
    MS. "Memoirs of the Hon. John Lord Scudamore" seem to have been used by
    Matthew Gibson in his View of the Ancient and Present State of the
    Churches of Door, Horne-Lacy, and Hempsted, with Memoirs of the
    Scudamore Family, 4to., 1727, as the substance of the passage quoted
    by our correspondent is given at p. 95. of that work.]

Fire at Honiton.--I am solicitous to learn the particulars of a fire which occurred at Honiton,
in Devonshire, in the year 1765, when the chapel and school-house were burned down, and the
former thereupon rebuilt by collections under a brief.

In a review of Mr. Digby Wyatt's "Industrial Arts of the Nineteenth Century" (in the Athenæum
for June 18th of the current year), reference is made by Mrs. Treadwin of Exeter to "a book
mentioning two great fires which occurred in 1756 and 1767 in Honiton," but it is not stated
who was the author of that book. {368}

Can you or any of your readers furnish me with the title of the book intended, or direct me
to any other sources of information on the subject of the Honiton fires?

S. T.

    [Notices of fires at Honiton occur in the following works:--The Wisdom
    and Righteousness of Divine Providence. A sermon preached at Honiton
    on occasion of a dreadful fire, 21st August, 1765, which consumed 140
    houses, a chapel, and a meeting-house. By R. Harrison, 4to.
    1765.--Shaw, in his Tour to the West of England, p. 444., mentions a
    dreadful fire, 19th July, 1747, which reduced three parts of the town
    to ashes.--Lysons' Devonshire, p. 281., states that Honiton has been
    visited by the destructive calamity of fire in 1672, 1747, 1754, and
    1765. The last-mentioned happened on the 21st August, and was the most
    calamitous; 115 houses were burnt down, and the steeple of Allhallows
    Chapel, with the school, were destroyed. The damage was estimated at
    above 10,500l.]

Michaelmas Goose.--The following little inconsistency in a commonly-received tradition has
led me, at the request of a large party of well-read and literary friends, to request your
solution of the difficulty in an early Number of your paper.

It is currently reported, and nine men in ten will tell you, if you ask them the reason why
goose is always eaten on the 29th Sept., Michaelmas Day, that Queen Elizabeth was eating goose
when the news of the destruction of the Invincible Armada was brought, and she immediately
put down her knife and fork, and said, "From this day forth let all British-born subjects eat
goose on this day."

Now in Creasy's Battles it is stated that the Spanish fleet was destroyed in the month of July.
How could it then be the 29th of Sept. when the news of its defeat reached her majesty? If
any of your readers can solve this seeming improbability be will greatly oblige

MICHAELMAS DAY.

    [Although it may be difficult to show how it is that the custom of
    eating goose has in this country been transferred to Michaelmas Day,
    while on the Continent it is observed at Martinmas, from which practice
    the goose is often called St. Martin's bird, it is very easy to prove
    that there is no foundation for the tradition referred to by our
    correspondent. For the following extract from Stow's Annales (ed.
    Howes), p. 749., will show that, so far from the news of the defeat of
    the Armada not reaching Elizabeth until the 29th of September, public
    thanksgivings for the victory had been offered on the 20th of the
    preceding month:

    "On the 20th of August, M. Nowell, Deane of Paules, preached at Paules
    Crosse, in presence of the lord Maior and Aldermen, and the companies
    in their best liveries, moving them to give laud and praise unto
    Almightie God, for the great victorie by him given to our English
    nation, by the overthrowe of the Spanish fleete."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

PORTRAITS OF HOBBES AND LETTERS OF HOLLAR.

(Vol. viii., p. 221.)

Although I cannot answer the question of SIR WALTER TREVELYAN, the following notices respecting
the portraits of the Philosopher of Malmesbury may not be unacceptable to him and to those
who hold this distinguished man's memory in high respect.

That admirable gossip, John Aubrey, who lived in habits of intimacy with Hobbes, has left us
such a lively picture of the man, his person, and his manners, as to leave nothing to desire.
In reading it we cannot but regret that Aubrey had not been a cotemporary of our great poet,
about whom he has been only able to furnish us with some hearsay anecdotes.

Aubrey tells us that--

    "Sir Charles Scarborough, M.D., Physician to his Royal Highness the
    Duke of York, much loved the conversation of Hobbes, and hath a picture
    of him (drawne about 1655), under which is this distich:

     'Si quæris de me, mores inquire, sed ille
        Qui quærit de me, forsitan alter erit.'"

    "In their meeting (i. e. the Royal Society) at Gresham College is his
    picture drawne by the life, 1663, by a good hand, which they much
    esteeme, and several copies have been taken of it."

In a note Aubrey says:

    "He did me the honour to sit for his picture to Jo. Baptist Caspars, an
    excellent painter, and 'tis a good piece. I presented it to the Society
    twelve years since."

In other places he tells us:

    "Amongst other of his acquaintance I must not forget Mr. Samuel Cowper
    (Cooper), the prince of limners of this last age, who drew his picture
    as like as art could afford, and one of the best pieces that ever he
    did which his Majesty, at his returne, bought of him, and conserves as
    one of his greatest rarities in his closet at Whitehall."

Again he says:

    "Mr. S. Cowper (at whose house Hobbes and Sir William Petty often met)
    drew his picture twice: the first the King has; the other is yet in the
    custody of his (Cooper's) widowe; but he (Cowper) gave it indeed to me
    (and I promised I would give it to the archives at Oxon), but I, like a
    fool, did not take possession of it, for something of the garment was
    not quite finished, and he died, I being then in the country."

{369}

This picture is, I believe, now in my possession. It is a small half-length oil painting, measuring
about twelve inches by nine. Hobbes is represented at an open arch or window, with his book,
the Leviathan, open before him; the dress is, as Aubrey states, unfinished, and beneath is
the remarkable inscription,--

    "AUT EGO INSANIO SOLUS: AUT EGO SOLUS NON INSANIO." His head was of a mallet forme, approved by the physiologers.
    His face not very great, ample forehead, yellowish-red whiskers, which
    naturally turned up; belowe he was shaved close, except a little tip
    under his lip; not but that nature would have afforded him a venerable
    beard, but being mostly of a cheerful and pleasant humour, he affected
    not at all austerity and gravity, and to look severe. He considered
    gravity and heavinesse of countenance not so good marks of assurance of
    God's favour, as a cheerful charitable, and upright behaviour, which
    are better signes of religions than the zealous maintaining of
    controverted doctrines. He had a good eie, and that of a hazel colour,
    which was full of life and spirit, even to his last; when he was in
    discourse, there shone (as it were) a bright live coale within it. He
    had two kinds of looks; when he laught, was witty, and in a merry
    humour, one could scarce see his eies; by and by, when he was serious
    and earnest, he opened his eies round his eie-lids: he had middling
    eies, not very big nor very little. He was six foote high and something
    better, and went indifferently erect, or rather, considering his great
    age, very erect."

Aubrey was one of the patrons of Hollar, of whom he has also given us some brief but interesting
particulars. The two following letters, which were transcribed by Malone when he contemplated
a publication of the Aubrey papers, deserve preservation; indeed, one of them relates immediately
to the subject of this notice:

    "Sir,

    "I have now done the picture of Mr. Hobbes, and have showed it to some
    of his acquaintance, who say it to be very like; but Stent has deceived
    me, and maketh demurr to have it of me; as that at this present my
    labour seemeth to be lost, for it lyeth dead by me. However, I returne
    you many thankes for lending mee the Principall, and I have halve a
    dozen copies for you, and the painting I have delivered to your
    Messenger who brought it to mee before.

         "Your humble servant,
             "W. HOLLAR.

    "The 1st of August, 1661."

    "[For Mr. Aubrey.]

    "Sir,

    "I have beene told this morning that you are in Town, and that you
    desire to speak with mee, so I did presently repaire to your Lodging,
    but they told mee that you went out at 6 o'clock that morning, and it
    was past 7 then. If I could know certaine time when to finde you I
    would waite on you. My selve doe lodge without St. Clement's Inne back
    doore; as soon as you come up the steps and out of that doore is the
    first house and doore on the left hand, two paire of staires into a
    little passage right before you; but I am much abroad, and yet enough
    at home too.

         "Your most humble servant,
              W. HOLLAR.

    "If you had occasion to aske for mee of the people of the house, then
    you must say the Frenchman Limmner, for they know not my name
    perfectly, for reasons sake, otherwise you may goe up directly."

This minute localising of one of the humble workshops of this admirable artist may not be unacceptable
to MR. PETER CUNNINGHAM for some future edition of his very interesting Handbook of London.
It may not be amiss to add that Hollar died on the 25th of March 1677, in the seventieth year
of his age and that he was buried in St. Margaret's churchyard, Westminster, near the north-west
corner of the tower, but without stone to mark the spot.

S. W. SINGER.

Mickleham.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAROCHIAL LIBRARIES.

(Vol. viii., p. 62.)

In the vestry of the fine old priory church at Cartmel, in Lancashire, there is a good library,
chiefly of divinity, consisting of about three hundred volumes, placed in a commodious room,
and kept in nice order. This small but valuable collection was left to the parish by Thomas
Preston, of Holker, Esq.

There is another in the vestry of the church at Castleton, in Derbyshire; or rather in a room
built expressly to contain then, adjoining the vestry. They were left to the parish by the
Rev. James Farrer, M.A., who had been vicar of Castleton for about forty-five years, and consist
of about two thousand volumes in good condition, partly theological and partly miscellaneous,
about equally divided, which are lent to the parishioners at the discretion of the vicar. Mr.
Farrer left behind him a maiden sister, and a brother-in-law Mr. Hamilton, who resided in Bath;
the former of whom erected the room containing the books, and a vestry at the same time and
both considerably augmented the number of volumes, and made the library what it now is.

Under the chancel of the spacious and venerable parish church of Halifax, in Yorkshire, are
some large rooms upon a level with the lower part of the churchyard, in one of which is contained
a good library of books. Robert Clay, D.D., vicar of Halifax, who died April 9, 1628, was buried
in this library, which he is said to have built. {370}

In the Rectory House at Whitchurch, in Shropshire, built by Richard Newcome, D.D., rector of
that place, and afterwards Bishop of St. Asaph, there is a valuable library left as an heirloom
by the bequest of Jane, Countess Dowager of Bridgewater; who, in the year 1707, having purchased
from his executors the library of the Reverend Clement Sankey, D.D., rector of Whitchurch,
for 305l., left it for ever for the use of the rectors for the time being. The number of the
volumes was 2250: amongst which are a fine copy of Walton's Polyglott Bible, some of the ancient
Fathers, and other valuable theological works. This collection has been subsequently increased
by a bequest from the late Rev. Francis Henry, Earl of Bridgewater (of eccentric memory), rector
of Whitchurch, who by his will, dated in 1825, gave the whole of his own books in the Rectory
House at Whitchurch, to be added to the others, and left also the sum of 150l. to the rector
to be invested in his name, and the dividends thereof expended by him, together with the money
arising from the sale of his lordship's wines and liquors in his cellars at Whitchurch, in
the purchase of printed books for the use of the rectors of that parish for the time being.

The same noble earl presented to the rector of Middle, in the county of Salop, a small collection
of books towards founding a library there: and bequeathed by his will the sum of 800l., to
be applied, under the direction of the rector of Middle for the time being, for augmenting
this library. He also left a farther sum of 150l. to be invested in the name of the rector;
and the dividends thereof expended by him in the purchase of books for the continual augmentation
of the library, in the same manner as he had done at Whitchurch.

It is to this Earl of Bridgewater that we are indebted not only for those valuable works the
Bridgewater Treatises, but also for large bequests of money and landed property to the trustees
of the British Museum, for the purchase of manuscripts, in addition to those from his own collection,
which he had already bequeathed to the same institution.

THOS. CORSER.

Stand Rectory.

       *       *       *       *       *

BATTLE OF VILLERS EN COUCHÉ.

(Vol. viii., pp. 8. 127.)

I am in a position to furnish a more complete account of this skirmish, and of the action of
April 26, in which my grandfather, General Mansel, fell, from a copy of the Evening Mail of
May 14, 1794, now in the possession of J. C. Mansel, Esq., of Cosgrove Hall, Northamptonshire.
Your correspondent MR. T. C. SMITH appears to have been misinformed as to the immediate suppression
of the Poetical Sketches by an officer of the Guards, as I have seen the third edition of that
work, printed in 1796.

    "Particulars of the Glorious Victory obtained by the English Cavalry
    over the French under the Command of General Chapuis, at Troisoille, on
    the 26th of April, 1794.

    "On the 25th, according to orders received from the Committee of Public
    Safety, and subsequently from General Pichegru, General Chapuis, who
    commanded the Camp of Cæsar, marched from thence with his whole force,
    consisting of 25,000 infantry, 3000 cavalry, and seventy-five pieces of
    cannon. At Cambray he divided them into three columns; the one marched
    by Ligny, and attacked the redoubt at Troisoille, which was most
    gallantly defended by Col. Congreve against this column of 10,000 men.
    The second column was then united, consisting of 12,000 men, which
    marched on the high road as far as Beausois, and from that village
    turned off to join the first column; and the attack recommenced against
    Col. Congreve's redoubt, who kept the whole at bay. The enemy's flank
    was supported by the village of Caudry, to defend which they had six
    pieces of cannon, 2000 infantry, and 500 cavalry. During this period
    Gen. Otto conceived it practicable to fall on their flank with the
    cavalry; in consequence of which, Gen. Mansel, with about 1450
    men--consisting of the Blues, 1st and 3rd Dragoon Guards, 5th Dragoon
    Guards, and 1st Dragoons, 15th and 16th Dragoons, with Gen. Dundas, and
    a division of Austrian cuirassiers, and another of Archduke Ferdinand's
    hussars under Prince Swartzenburg--after several manoeuvres, came up
    with the enemy in the village of Caudry, through which they charged,
    putting the cavalry to flight, and putting a number of infantry to the
    sword, and taking the cannon. Gen. Chapuis, perceiving the attack on
    the village of Caudry, sent down the regiment of carabineers to support
    those troops; but the succour came too late, and this regiment was
    charged by the English light dragoons and the hussars, and immediately
    gave way with some little loss. The charge was then continued against a
    battery of eight pieces of cannon behind a small ravine, which was soon
    carried; and, with equal rapidity, the heavy cavalry rushed on to
    attack a battery of fourteen pieces of cannon, placed on an eminence
    behind a very steep ravine, into which many of the front ranks fell;
    and the cannon, being loaded with grape, did some execution: however, a
    considerable body, with Gen. Mansel at their head, passed the ravine,
    and charged the cannon with inconceivable intrepidity, and their
    efforts were crowned with the utmost success. This event decided the
    day, and the remaining time was passed in cutting down battalions, till
    every man and horse was obliged to give up the pursuit from fatigue. It
    was at the mouth of this battery that the brave and worthy Gen. Mansel
    was shot: one grape-shot entering his chin, fracturing the spine, and
    coming out between the shoulders; and the other breaking his arm to
    splinters; his horse was also killed under him, his Brigade-Major
    Payne's horse shot, and his son and aide-de-camp, Capt. Mansel, wounded
    and taken prisoner; and it is since known that he was taken into {371}
    Arras. The French lost between 14,000 and 15,000 men killed; we took
    580 prisoners. The loss in tumbrils and ammunition was immense, and in
    all fifty pieces of cannon, of which thirty-five fell to the English;
    twenty-seven to the heavy, and eight to the light cavalry. Thus ended a
    day which will redound with immortal honour to the bravery of the
    British cavalry, who, assisted by a small body of Austrians, the whole
    not amounting to 1500, gained so complete a victory over 22,000 men in
    sight of their corps de reserve, consisting of 6000 men and twenty
    pieces of cannon. Had the cavalry been more numerous, or the infantry
    able to come up, it is probable few of the French would have escaped.
    History does not furnish such an example of courage.

    "The whole army lamented the loss of the brave General, who thus
    gloriously terminated a long military career, during which he had been
    ever honoured, esteemed, and respected by all who knew him. It should
    be some consolation to those he has left behind him, that his
    reputation was as unsullied as his soul was honest; and that he died as
    he lived, an example of true courage, honour, and humility. On the 24th
    General Mansel narrowly escaped being surrounded at Villers de Couché
    by the enemy, owing to a mistake of General Otto's aide-de-camp, who
    was sent to bring up the heavy cavalry: in doing which he mistook the
    way, and led them to the front of the enemy's cannon, by which the 3rd
    Dragoon Guards suffered considerably."--Extract from the Evening
    Mail, May 14, 1794.

From the above extract, compared with the communication of MR. SMITH (Vol. viii., p. 127.),
it appears that the 15th Light Dragoons were engaged in both actions, that of Villers en Couché
on April 24, and that of Troisoille (or Cateau) on the 26th. In the statement communicated
by MR. SIMPSON (Ibid. p. 8.), there appears to be some confusion between the particulars of
the two engagements.

H. L. MANSEL, B.D.

St. John's College, Oxford

As the action at Villers en Couché has lately been brought before your readers, allow me to
direct your correspondent to the Journals and Correspondence of Sir Harry Calvert, edited by
Sir Harry Verney, and just published by Messrs. Hurst and Co.,--a book which contains a good
deal of valuable information respecting a memorable campaign. Sir Harry Calvert, under the
date of the 25th of April, 1794, thus describes the action at Villers en Couché:

    "Since Tuesday, as I foresaw was likely, we have been a good deal on
    the qui vive. On Wednesday morning we had information that the enemy
    had moved in considerable force from the Camp de César, and early in
    the afternoon we learned that they had crossed the Selle at Saultzoir,
    and pushed patrols towards Quesnoy and Valenciennes. The Duke [of York]
    sent orders to General Otto, who had gone out to Cambray on a
    reconnoitring party with light dragoons and hussars, to get into the
    rear of the enemy, find out their strength, and endeavour to cut them
    off. The enemy retired to Villers en Couché that night, but occupied
    Saultzoir and Haussy. Otto, fielding their strength greater than he
    expected, about 14,000, early in the evening sent in for a brigade of
    heavy cavalry for his support, which marched first to Fontaine
    Antarque, and afterwards to St. Hilaire; and in the night he sent for a
    farther support of four battalions and some artillery. Unfortunately he
    confided this important mission to a hussar, who never delivered it,
    probably having lost his way, so that, in the morning, the general
    found himself under the necessity of attacking with very inferior
    numbers. However, by repeated charges of his light cavalry, he drove
    the enemy back into their camp, and took three pieces of cannon. He
    had, at one time, taken eight; but the enemy, bringing up repeated
    reinforcements of fresh troops, retook five.

    "Our loss I cannot yet ascertain, but I fear the 15th Light Dragoons
    have suffered considerably. Two battalions of the enemy are entirely
    destroyed."

The especial bravery of the troops engaged on the 26th, which is another subject noticed by
your correspondent BIBLIOTHECAR. CHETHAM. prompted the following entry on his journal by Sir
Harry Calvert:

    "April 26.--The enemy made a general attack on the camp of the allies.
    On their approaching the right of the camp, the Duke of York directed a
    column of heavy cavalry, consisting of the regiment of Zedwitsch
    Cuirassiers, the Blues, Royals, 1st, 3rd, and 5th Dragoon Guards, to
    turn the enemy, or endeavour to take them in flank, which service they
    performed in a style beyond all praise, charging repeatedly through the
    enemy's column, and taking twenty-six pieces of cannon. The light
    dragoons and hussars took nine pieces on the left of the Duke's camp."

Sir Harry Verney has printed in an Appendix his father's well-considered plans for the defence
of the country against the invasion anticipated in 1796.

J. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

ATTAINMENT OF MAJORITY.

(Vol. viii., pp. 198. 250. 296.)

The misunderstanding which has arisen between PROFESSOR DE MORGAN and A. E. B. has proceeded,
it appears, from the misapplication of the statement of the latter's authority (Arthur Hopton)
to the question at issue. Where Hopton says that our lawyers count their day from sunrise to
sunset, he, I am of opinion, merely refers to certain instances, such as distress for rent:

    "A man cannot distrain for rent or rent-charge in the night (which,
    according to the author of The Mirror, is after sunset and before
    sunrising)."--Impey on Distress and Replevin, p. 49.

In common law, the day is now supposed among lawyers to be from six in the morning to seven
at night for service of notices; in Chancery till eight at night. And a service after such
times at night {372} would be counted as good only for the next day. In the case of Liffin
v. Pitcher, 1 Dowl. N. S. 767., Justice Coleridge said, "I am in the habit of giving twenty-four
hours to plead when I give one day." Thus it will be perceived that a lawyer's day is of different
lengths.

There is no doubt also that the law rejects fractions of a day where it is possible:

    "It is clear that the law rejecteth all fractions of days for the
    uncertainty, and commonly allows him that hath part of the day in law
    to have the whole day, unless where it, by fraction or relation, may be
    a prejudice to a third person."--Sir O. Bridgm. l.

And in respect to the present case it is quite clear. In the case of Reg. v. The Parish of
St. Mary, Warwick, reported in the Jurist (vol. xvii. p. 551.), Lord Campbell said:

    "In some cases the Court does not regard the fraction of a day. Where
    the question is on what day a person came of age, the fraction of the
    day on which he was born and on which he came of age is not
    considered."

And farther on he says:

    "It is a general maxim that the law does not regard the fraction of a
    day."

RUSSELL GOLE.

I only treat misquotation as an offence in the old sense of the word; and courteously, but
most positively, I deny the right of any one who quotes to omit, or to alter emphasis, without
stating what he has done. That A. E. B. did misunderstand me, I was justified in inferring
from his implication (p. 198. col. 2) that I made the day begin "a minute after midnight."

Arthur Hopton, whom A. E. B. quotes against me (but the quotation is from chapter xiv., not
xiii.), is wrong in his law. The lawyers, from Coke down to our own time, give both days, the
natural and artificial, as legal days. See Coke Littleton (Index, Day), the current commentators
on Blackstone, and the usual law dictionaries.

Nevertheless, this discussion will serve the purpose. No one denies that the day of majority
now begins at midnight: no one pretends to prove, by evidence of decisions, or opinion of writers
on law, that it began otherwise in 1600. How then did Ben Jonson make it begin, as clearly
A. E. B. shows he does, at six o'clock (meaning probably a certain sunrise)? Hopton throws
out the natural day altogether in a work on chronology, and lays down the artificial day as
the only one known to lawyers: it is not wonderful that Jonson should have fallen into the
same mistake.

A. DE MORGAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIMILARITY OF IDEA IN ST. LUKE AND JUVENAL.

(Vol. viii., p. 195.)

I send, as a pendant to MR. WEIR'S lines from Juvenal, the following extract from Cicero:

    "Sed in eâ es urbe, in quâ hæc, vel plura, et ornatiora, parietes ipsi
    loqui posse videantur."--Cic. Epist., 1. vi. 3.: Torquato, Pearce's
    12mo. edition.

Most, if not all, of the readers of "N. & Q." are I believe, pleased by having their attention
drawn to parallel passages in which a similarity of idea or thought is found. Let us adopt
for conciseness the term "parallel passages" (frequently used in "N. & Q."), as embracing every
kind of similarity. Contributions of such passages to "N. & Q." would form a very interesting
collection. I should be particularly pleased by a full collection of parallel passages from
the Scriptures and ancient and modern literature, and especially Shakspeare. (See MR. BUCKTON'S
"Shakspearian Parallels," antè, p. 240.)

To prevent sending passages that have been inserted in "N. & Q.," every note should refer to
the note immediately preceding. I send the following parallel passages with some hesitation,
because I have not my volumes of "N. & Q." at hand, to ascertain whether they have already
appeared, and because they are probably familiar to your readers. I do not, however, send them
as novelties, but as a contribution to the collection which I wish to see made:

    "[Greek: Apo de tou mê echontos kai ho echei arthêsetai ap'
    autou.]"--Matt. xxv. 29., Luke xix. 26.

 "Nil habuit Codrus. Quis enim hoc negat? et tamen illud
  Perdidit infelix totum nihil."--Juvenal, I. iii. 208.

The rich man says:

