In the sulphide process, the image which, in a black-developed print, consists of metallic
silver in fine division, is converted into silver sulphide, a substance which in the ordinary
way is also black, but when produced in a fine condition on a photographic print is brown to
sepia color. Silver sulphide is a most permanent substance. Therefore a sulphide-toned print
should be permanent, too, a conclusion which is fully borne out in practice. A sulphide-toned
print is at least as permanent as the bromide from which it is made. The image of the latter
is susceptible to practically only one agent likely to come in contact with it, namely, sulphur
fumes from burning gas, which partially sulphurize it and give rise to iridescent markings
resembling those due to stale paper. Now, as the sulphide-toned print is the result of this
sulphurizing process carried out with intention to a state of completeness, the result should
be--and proves to be in practice--immune to this one cause of defacement.

In converting the silver image into one of silver sulphide, the method is to first act on (bleach)
the silver image with some reagent which will change it into a compound of silver susceptible
to the action of sulphide. Iodine has been used for this, giving an image of silver iodide.
Bromine gives one of silver bromide. A mixture of potass bichromate and hydrochloric acid gives
silver chloride, as does also a solution of chlorine, though in the former case the presence
of the chromium compounds affects the color obtained. But the best of the lot is a solution
of the two substances potassium ferricyanide and potassium bromide, which forms an image of
silver ferrocyanide and silver bromide. Both of these are converted into silver sulphide when
treated with a solution of sodium sulphide. In the case of the hypo-alum process, in which
the prints are toned direct (without bleaching) in a mixture of hypo and alum, the image is
also changed into silver sulphide, but only to a partial extent. Theoretically, the method
is not so good as sulphide proper; it is much more inconvenient in practice except on a commercial
scale, while the results cannot be said to quite equal those by the sulphide process as regards
permanency.

So much by way of theory. We will now give the formulae for the two solutions required in the
sulphide process. The first of these is the "bleach," or oxidizing mixture of bromide and ferricyanide.
Within reasonable limits, the proportions of these salts and the quantity of each in the solution
does not matter very much. Each chemical can, if desired, be kept in a separate solution if
care be taken to keep the mixture in the dark,--that is, in a cupboard where it will not be
exposed constantly to daylight. The ferricyanide suffers in time by exposure to daylight; but,
as both it and the bromide are comparatively cheap and serve for a large number of prints,
there is no need to take excessive care. The ferricyanide-bromide mixture, however, keeps very
much better than a plain solution of ferricyanide alone. Formulae which place the salts in
separate solutions are a mistake.

As good a formula as any is: Potass ferricyanide, 300 grains; potass bromide, 100 grains, water
20 ounces; Ammonium bromide may be used in place of the potassium salt in the above formula;
the difference is not marked, but the ammonium compound tends to give a somewhat warmer brown
or sepia. In the case of many formulae, it will be noticed that equal quantities of bromide
and ferricyanide are recommended. Although, as just stated, variations in the formula are not
at all marked in their effects, a proportion of bromide over one-quarter of the ferricyanide
does tend towards the yellowish color of which complaints are now and again heard. I want to
make it clear that the opportunities for going wrong with the bleacher are very small indeed.
Without encouraging the reader to be careless let it be said that "any old formula" (of ferricyanide
and bromide) for the bleacher will prove successful. Not so, however, in the case of the sulphide
solution, which requires to be very carefully made up and used.

Sulphide, not sulphite. The material for the toning or darkening of the bleached print is the
chemical substance, sodium sulphide, of the formula Na2S.9H2O. This is purchased as small crystals
which greedily absorb water and rapidly become almost liquid if not properly corked. Not that
this totally unfits the sulphide for use. Sulphide which has gone liquid will at all times
be found to work perfectly, but it is of course open to suspicion, and, in any case, it is
not possible to know what is the strength of a solution made up with such a supply. For this
reason, it is best to make up the sulphide into solution of 20 per cent strength, and add this
to water to make the toning bath. And it is here that a caution must be noted. The weak working
solution, which is only about 1 to 2 per cent strength, keeps very badly indeed, and should
be made up fresh from the stock solution at the time of toning each batch of prints. This is
one of the most necessary items to bear in mind in using the sulphide process.

Sodium sulphide is sold in various degrees of purity, and the label on the bottle is not always
in exact correspondence with the condition of the substance inside, but the two forms which
must be adhered to for sulphide toning are the ordinary "pure" and the "pure for analysis."
The former can be obtained from any reliable drug store or photographic dealer. It comes in
small lumps, yellowish to greenish in color; when dissolved in water the solution will be yellow,
and will usually show a deposit which must be filtered off. This sulphide will give tones which
are sepia brown with most papers. In the case of the "pure-for-analysis" sulphide, which is
the recrystallized variety, the salt will be pure white and will form a quite colorless and
clear solution in water. The tone given by this kind of sulphide is usually of a more purplish
color. The distinct difference between the two commercial varieties of sulphide should not
be overlooked, as it allows the worker to modify the process usefully when dealing with papers
differing (as all papers do) to a slight extent in their adaptability to sulphide toning. The
purer form has certainly much better keeping properties than the other, but either, if made
up in 20 per cent solution, keeps for a month or two at least--which is enough for all purposes.
The chief difference between the two is noticed in the diluted or working solutions. That of
the purest sulphide may be kept and used again, though it is not really good policy to do so.

The supply of sulphide should therefore be dissolved as soon as purchased, as follows: Stock
sulphide solution--20 per cent; sodium sulphite 4 ounces; water to make 20 ounces. The actual
toning solution is made up at the time of treating the prints by mixing the above stock with
water, as follows: Sulphide toning bath.--Stock 20 per cent solution 3 ounces; water to make
20 ounces.

This makes a bath which contains about one per cent real sulphide, corresponding with about
a 3 per cent solution of the sulphide as purchased. If the bath is much weaker, the tone obtained
is usually not quite so good; while, if it is stronger, there is danger of the print's blistering
while toning, or afterward in the washing water. Indeed, some papers need to be toned in a
weaker bath, and require also to be fixed in an alum-hypo fixing bath (see later), so that
the strength of the toning bath given above may be taken as the maximum, and used at half or
one-third strength, as circumstances show to be necessary. And, to repeat the caution once
more, the toning bath is to be thrown away as soon as the prints have been passed through it.
With these points in our mind as to the making up of the solution, we can come to the process
proper.

The prints require to be well washed and free from hypo before being placed in the bromide-ferricyanide
bleacher, because any hypo in conjunction with the ferricyanide will form the well-known Farmer's
reducer, and cause patchiness of the prints. It is immaterial whether the prints are taken
direct through the toning process or dried in the meantime. Some workers contend that the toning
process is more regular if the prints are dried before bleaching. In either case, immersion
in the bleacher will cause the fully developed bromide to disappear, leaving only a faint brown
image behind. In some cases the image is fainter than in others, the difference appearing to
depend chiefly on the developer employed. Developers with a liability to stain will give prints
which do not bleach out so completely as those made with cleaner working developers. But, in
all cases, two to three minutes' action of the bleaching solution will be ample; if all pure
black is not gone in this time, it is a sign that the bleach is becoming exhausted. The prints
should be kept constantly on the move whilst in the solution, and turned over and over to ensure
equal action. They are then given quite a brief rinse in running water--half a minute to a
minute--and then transferred to the sulphide solution, where they should darken to the full
brown or sepia tone in a few seconds. It is well always to leave them here for twice to three
times the period required to give the full tone. A wash of half an hour will remove the salts
left in the film.

Granted that bleacher and sulphide are in proper working order, there is one further factor
in the making of sepia prints which is of vital importance, and that is the proper preparation
of the print itself. A good sulphide tone presupposes a good black and white bromide. Not only
that, defects in the bromide which may lie latent while the print is untoned come to light
in the sulphide bath. This applies to uneven fixation (due to omission to keep prints moving
in the hypo bath) and fingering of the surface; while, as regards the original development
of the print, making the best of a wrong exposure will not do when sulphide toning is in view.
A print that is forced by long development will suffer in tone, the result being colder and
less satisfactory as regards vigor. Full exposure, and development which is complete in the
normal time for a perfect black print, are the conditions for a good sepia tone, and, when
a batch of prints is being put through, it is well to take steps to preserve a uniform time
of development in order to secure an identical tone throughout.

There are many different formulas for the uranium toning of bromide prints, and I suppose that
most of them have given good results with the workers who published their methods. Of those
which I have tried, however, none has yielded the results which I have been enabled to obtain
from my own formula--my own in that I arrived at it by patient experimenting. It may be that
this formula is not wholly original with myself. At any rate, I do not claim anything for it
except that it works, with me, better than others I have tried.

The requirements for toning bromide prints with uranium are: 1 ounce of uranium nitrate; 1
ounce of potassium ferricyanide (the red crystals); 1/2 pound bottle of acetic acid--c. p.
glacial preferred; water; a supply of blotting paper, to be kept exclusively for this purpose,
and a few absolutely and chemically clean trays.

The expense attached to these toning processes is slight. Uranium nitrate costs from forty
to sixty cents per ounce, and an ounce will last a long time. Potassium ferricyanide costs
about twenty cents per pound, and a pound is ample for a lifetime. Glacial acetic acid is a
little more costly, but a half-pound bottle will prove a good investment. It is used also,
as the reader will recall, in making acid hypo for acid fixing.

To prepare the toning baths, dissolve the ounce of uranium nitrate in 10 ounces of water. The
water should be distilled if this is easily obtainable, and the solution should be kept in
an orange-glass bottle or an ordinary bottle protected from light by a non-actinic paper wrapping.
Dissolve the ounce of potassium ferricyanide in 10 ounces of water. Keep this also in an orange-glass
bottle, well corked. There are many cautions about this particular salt, and it has been said
that it will not keep in solution. In my practice I find no difficulty whatever in the use
of a solution six months old, despite the difficulties mentioned in the text-books.

To tone the bromide prints, first note that the prints should have been developed and fixed
and washed just as usual. It is necessary that prints to be toned shall contain no trace of
hypo. To secure this, the prints should be specially prepared for toning by being again thoroughly
washed, as any hypo remaining in the print will cause spots and streakiness. With care at this
stage the toning will give clean and bright prints, which should be as permanent as the original
bromide print.

I cannot give the reason why, but, as a general rule, bromide prints tone better if the print
has been dried after washing and rewet just before toning. There may be a chemical reason for
this, but I am inclined to think that it is a physical one, viz., that the emulsion is softer
after its first washing than after having been dried and wet, so that it allows toning solution
to get into the film more quickly. This naturally results in more rapid toning, and quick toning
does not yield as good prints as a slower and more gradual building up of the color image.

Having the print ready for toning as here outlined, take 1 dram of the uranium solution, add
1/2 dram of acetic acid and then 5 ounces of water. In a separate graduate put 1 dram of ferricyanide
solution and 5 ounces of water. Just before toning, pour these two solutions together into
the third graduate and use immediately. To proceed, lay the rewetted print face up in a clean
tray and flow the freshly made toning bath (the two solutions combined) over the print. The
print and tray must be kept in motion by gentle rocking during the toning operation. The toning
solution tends to throw a red precipitate as it works. This precipitate should not be permitted
to settle on the face of the print. Some workers tone their prints face down, but I do not
advocate this, as it is important to take the print from the toning bath at just the right
moment, and, as the toning process is short (six or seven minutes is usually sufficient even
for the deepest red) you need to watch the print all the time. In the toning operation note
that a constant quiet motion of the tray, to keep the solution moving over the print, is essential
to success.

I have already given, in an earlier paragraph, the order in which the colors come. But that
order was for a normal print. Some prints behave differently, and it is in the control of these
unavoidable variations with different prints that skill and success come. A print of a half-tone
subject against a jet-black background, a portrait, for instance, will hardly follow the normal
order in the appearance of colors. This because the half-tones will be brown and even red-brown
before the toning solution has changed the dense black deposit of the background at all. If
the toning was stopped at this stage, some very pretty effects in double toning might result.

From this explanation of the toning process, the discerning reader will perceive the need for
caution in selecting the best kind of a print for uranium toning. Thus a print which has a
bald-headed sky will tone only in the body of the print, but if there is any tint at all to
the sky, it also will tone, giving an effect not much to be desired except for sunset or sunrise
pictures. If white high-lights are desired in the toned print, they must be white originally
and not the least bit fogged. As double-toned effects in a print are not usually desirable,
those prints having deep black shadows or dark masses will be avoided. The best kind of print
for this method of toning is one fully exposed and slightly under-developed, since, when the
uranium does take hold of the shadows, it makes for an increase of contrast.

Experience is the best teacher, and I could not begin to describe in detail what the reader
can himself ascertain from a few experiments. Some prints needing contrast should be carried
far in the toning solution; others, not needing contrast, will give better results if they
are toned only through the browns, and so on. The reader who can spend a Saturday afternoon
with a few bromide prints, varying in character, will learn more from his experimenting than
I could tell him in many pages. For these experiments waste or imperfect black prints can be
used with practical economy, the chief object being to watch the progress of toning and chemical
changes.

When the desired tone is reached, remove the print from the toning solution and wash quickly
and well in running water for fifteen minutes. If washed too long, the color of the print will
fade and a dead and lifeless print will result. If not washed long enough, the yellow of the
ferricyanide will remain in the print, robbing its gradations of brightness and purity of color
and impairing the permanency of the print.

A big advantage in this method of toning is its wonderful adaptability. There is no hard and
fast rule as to the proportion of the chemicals to the bulk of water used. Try two drams of
each of the two solutions; then three drams of each, but watch that the print does not get
beyond you in toning. The only practical difference in my formula and others that I have seen
is that I make my stock solution weaker than that ordinarily advised and use less of it to
a certain amount of water, because I prefer slow toning and the accompanying ease of control
which the flash-in-the-pan formula does not admit. Quick toning, like quick development, tends
to block the shadows in the print, and if you once get bronzed shadows the print is practically
hopeless. Not quite ruined, however, as a bath in a 5 per cent solution of sodium carbonate
will discharge the color and then, if the print is faded, it may be redeveloped in an alkaline
developer such as metol-hydro. But before it is retoned the print must be thoroughly washed,
as the presence of sodium carbonate does not permit the toning solution to do its work.

Finally, I may say that, while a bath of acetic acid and water is often advised to stop the
toning action in this method, I have never found it necessary.

All the thin varieties of bromide paper curl badly in drying. If they are to be kept unmounted
it is well to immerse them in water to which has been added a few drops of glycerine. This
will ensure their lying flat after drying. A solution of 2 ounces of glycerine in 25 ounces
of water is advised when it is desired to make bromides on heavy rough paper remain flat, after
drying, for book illustration and similar purposes.

If one is trying to rush through a bromide print, it can be trimmed while wet by placing it
on a sheet of stiff paper and cutting through both.

The paper will be found to cockle the mounts badly in drying. Aside from the glue mountant,
formula for which accompanies the paper, I know no preventive except to mount the prints while
dry with the dry mounting tissue. As the paper when wet stretches one way considerably, as
much as a third of an inch on a ten- or twelve-inch length, provision must be made in trimming,
especially if mounts with centers of a given size are used.

The paper being covered with an emulsion which in warm weather is very soft while wet, mounting
is somewhat more difficult than with some of the other papers. My method is to mount not more
than half a dozen at once, placing them face down, one on top of the other, on a glass or ferrotype
plate, blotting off the surface water and spreading the paste over the top one in the usual
way. I place this on the mount and then stretch over it smoothly a damp handkerchief or piece
of very thin rubber cloth, rubbing the print down with my hands, seldom using the squeegee
and then very lightly. By this method abrasion of the surface seldom results and air-bells
are unknown. Owing to the strong contracting power of the paper in drying, the mounting paste
must be used freely, especially at the edges of the print.

Apart from the methods of procedure here given, there are innumerable modifications covering
every detail of contact printing and enlarging on bromide paper. Most of these have been given
careful trial as published, but few have quite fulfilled the expectations they created.

BOOKS.

Manuals dealing with the manipulation of the various brands of paper may also be obtained,
generally gratis, from the various manufacturers of bromide paper or their American agents
as follows: The Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N. Y.; The Defender Photo Supply Co., Rochester,
N. Y.; J. L. Lewis, New York City.

ROYAL ALBUMS

combine all the good features you seek in an album for the proper display and preservation of your

UNMOUNTED PHOTOGRAPHS AND POST CARDS

  Quality in Materials
  The Best of Workmanship
  Pleasing in Design and Appearance
  Durability in Service
  Moderate in Price
  A Wide Variety in Styles and Sizes
  Bindings in All Desirable Colors and Finishes
  Leaves and Covers of Harmonious Coloring

Ask Your Dealer to Show You ROYAL ALBUMS

MANUFACTURED BY F. L. SCHAFUSS COMPANY 200 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK

Makers of Albums Exclusively

TO PROFESSIONAL AND AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS

Write us at once for particulars regarding our new Multi-Speed Flashlight Attachment for our

MULTI-SPEED SHUTTER

It is a simple device operating in conjunction with the Multi-Speed Shutter and attached to
same with a screw on the back of the shutter.

It makes high speed photography practicable under all conditions. Takes photographs of moving
objects in 1-1000th second.

Especially valuable for making instantaneous full-timed pictures of babies, aged and nervous
people, groups, etc. Invaluable to press photographers for making race starts at night, indoor
athletic events and all kinds of newspaper illustrations hitherto impossible.

Send for a free Specimen Photograph and Detailed Information

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MULTI-SPEED SHUTTER JUNIOR

Simple, Efficient, Moderate in Price

Based on the principle of the famous Multi-Speed Shutter.

Gives accurate exposures up to 1-500th second, in addition to the usual slower speeds.

Extremely compact for the small camera. Easy in operation.

Highest efficiency in illumination and definition.

Widely endorsed as the simplest and best shutter sold even at a higher price.

Send for Detailed Information and FREE Illustrated Catalogue

MULTI-SPEED SHUTTER CO., 317-323 East 34th Street NEW YORK

LANDE'S Patent Enlarging Lamp

PATENTED

Puts Enlarged Pictures Within Reach of Everyone. Converts any Camera into an Enlarging Lantern
without the use of Condensers.

Enlargements made at home in any room which can be darkened. By means of this lamp and his
regular camera any amateur is equipped to make enlargements on bromide paper. It is fitted
with two incandescent gas lamps. The light is reflected so as to give a perfect even illumination
over the entire surface of the negative.

The time of exposure varies according to the power of the light, the density of the negative
and size of the enlargement. Approximately an average negative enlarged to four times the original
size will take about one to one and one-half minutes.

Prices

  No. 1. For 5 ×  7 and smaller negatives       $12.00
  No. 2. For 8 × 10 and smaller negatives        15.00

Ask your dealer to show you

MANUFACTURED BY GEORGE MURPHY, Inc., 57 E. Ninth St., New York

Cheap Blotting Papers are expensive in use and may ruin your prints. There is practical economy
and comfort in the use of

PHOTO FINISH WORLD BLOTTING

The Best for Twenty Years

Made expressly for photographic use. 100% pure cotton fibre, very absorbtive and non-linting.
Absolutely free from anything that can injure the photographic print. Notable for its smooth,
hard finish, giving durability in use. Try it and you'll use no other.

UNEQUALLED IN QUALITY ECONOMY and SATISFACTION

Your dealer can supply you if you will insist on getting "Photo Finish World." It is worth
insisting upon.

Manufactured by THE ALBEMARLE PAPER MFG. CO. Richmond, Va., U. S. A.

DURATOL NON-POISONOUS RAPID DEVELOPER

Produces essentially the same results as other =coal-tar= developers. It is economic by reason
of slow exhaustion, and its solutions are stable for many months, the bottles need not be kept
filled to the neck.

It produces fog-free negatives with the right amount of density in the high lights, a wealth
of detail in the shadows and great softness.

  BEST FORMULA FOR PLATES, FILMS AND SLOW-WORKING, CONTRASTY GASLIGHT
  PAPERS:

  Hot Water                        32 oz.
  Duratol                          15 grains
  Soda Sulphite dry                3/4 oz.
  Potassium Carbonate dry          1 oz.
  Hydroquinone                     75 grains

  Development complete in from 2 to 5 minutes.

  AN EXCELLENT FORMULA FOR SOFT-WORKING PAPERS (ARTURO, CYKO AND ARTEX):

  Hot Water                        35 oz.
  Duratol                          15 grains
  Soda Sulphite dry                1-2 oz.
  Potassium Carbonate dry          3/4 oz.
  Hydroquinone                     60 grains

  Development complete in about 2 minutes.

Sample upon request from

SCHERING & GLATZ 150 Maiden Lane--New York

Make Your Own Enlargements

The GRAPHIC Enlarging and Reducing Camera

With this camera you can make enlargements of any size with either daylight or artificial light.
No condensing lenses are required. The reflecting cone supplied with each camera distributes
the light evenly over the entire surface of the negative.

  PRICE

  Including Negative Carrier and Kits and three sheets of diffusing Ground
  Glass.

  No. 1. For Negatives  5 ×  7 and smaller $28.00
  No. 2.  "     "       8 × 10  "    "      35.00
  No. 3.  "     "      11 × 14  "    "      45.00

FOLMER & SCHWING DIVISION Eastman Kodak Co. ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

WE RECOMMEND "Agfa" AMIDOL FOR DEVELOPING BROMIDE WORK

¶ Send an "Agfa" Label and 10 cents for a copy of the "Agfa" Formulæ Book. It contains complete
formulæ for all makes of paper and other valuable information.

BERLIN ANILINE WORKS 215 WATER STREET NEW YORK

$15.00

From a Small Negative You Can Print a Picture Any Size

The Radion Enlarging Printer is a device which, used in connection with your camera, produces
prints from either film or glass negatives in any dimensions you wish.

The printing is almost as quick as contact printing, and the size of the prints can be varied
instantly.

THE RADION ENLARGING PRINTER

enables you to get all the results of a big camera with a small and inexpensive equipment.
It comes to you complete and ready to operate at any time of day or night. It is equipped with
new, specially constructed Mazda lamps ready to attach to any electric light socket.

The Radion Enlarging Printer works without the use of condensers, which thereby reduces the
cost of the machine and secures a better detail on the print.

PRICE $15.00

Most dealers in photographic supplies can sell you a Radion Enlarging Printer. If yours cannot,
write direct to us. Write anyway for descriptive circulars that will be of great interest to
every camera user.

H. C. WHITE CO.

Lens Grinders and Makers of Optical Instruments for over Forty Years

503 RIVER ST., NORTH BENNINGTON, VERMONT

Branches:

45 W. 34th St., New York City      San Francisco      London

The First Essential in Enlarging is the Curry Utility Enlarging and Copying Board and Springs

It is 20 × 30 inches, made of well-seasoned wood, nicely finished.

Will hold without injury any size copy of any thickness.

=Utility Springs= are made of the best nickeled steel.

Price, including 24 Springs, =$3.50=.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURRY STEREON Anastigmat Lens

  Series A--F 4.5
  Series B--F 6.3

The finest lens at any price for portraits, views or enlarging.

Send for Price List and "Photo Developments."

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANK J. CURRY

Importer, Manufacturer and Dealer in Photo Goods of Every Description.

812 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, Pa.

For Enlarging

Bausch & Lomb-Zeiss Tessar IIb-F:6.3

because of its excellent optical corrections.

The =Tessar= has a flat field allowing exposures at full aperture.

No danger from vibration because of long exposure.

Saves exposure time on dense negatives.

For Sale by Dealers.

Send for Booklet 70 H, "Useful Tables for the Photographer," free on request.

Contains tables on enlarging.

Our name, backed by over half a century of experience, is on all our products--lenses, microscopes,
field glasses, projection apparatus, engineering and other scientific instruments.

Bausch & Lomb Optical Co. NEW YORK    WASHINGTON    CHICAGO    SAN FRANCISCO LONDON     ROCHESTER,
N.Y.     FRANKFORT

You see the picture before you on the ground glass, right up to the moment of exposure and
are sure of success if you use

REFLEX CAMERAS

FOR YOUR CAMERA WORK OUT-OF-DOORS AND AT HOME

REFLEX CAMERAS EXCEL

all other similar types in curtain velocity, ease and speed of operation, simplicity of construction,
freedom from outside mechanism, perfect workmanship.

REGULAR 4×5 and 5×7

LONG-FOCUS 4×5 and 5×7

JUNIOR REFLEX 3-1/4×4-1/4 (fixed focus)

Price $12, with either one Holder or Adapter.

Ask any independent dealer or write for catalogue and sample print to

REFLEX CAMERA CO. Newark, N. J.

GOERZ CAMERAS

ARE UNIQUE IN THE HAND CAMERA LINE

OUR NEW VEST-POCKET TENAX

is the finest pocket camera ever made. It measures, closed, 3/4×2-3/4×3-1/2 inches. Equipped
with Compound Shutter, all speeds up to 1-250 second. We furnish with it a purse case containing
six nickel holders for plates 1-3/4×2-5/16 inches. Our fine enlarging apparatus, made especially
for use with this camera, will afford good enlargements of various sizes up to 5 × 7 inches.

Our =Ango=, =Manufoc Tenax= and =Folding Reflex= are all splendid cameras for the professional
photographer and ambitious amateur.

They show the same high qualities of workmanship which distinguish

GOERZ LENSES

Get our new illustrated catalog from your dealer or direct from

C. P. GOERZ AMERICAN OPTICAL CO. OFFICE AND FACTORY: 317 EAST 34TH STREET, NEW YORK

Dealers' Distributing Agencies: For Middle West, Burke & James, Chicago. Pacific Coast, Hirsch
& Kaiser, San Francisco.

HOW TO MAKE YOUR CAMERA PAY

Here are books you'll surely want to read! For they show how you can increase your ability
to make money with your camera. They tell how to make prints for book, magazine and newspaper
publishers, and show how you can make money during spare time.

The LIBRARY of AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY

