Around the other sides of the orchard were two rows of peach trees of every variety; but one
cling on the north was just a little the best of any, and we might eat all we wanted from any
tree we liked, after father tested them and said: "Peaches are ripe!"  In the middle were the
apple; selected trees, planted, trimmed, and cultivated like human beings.  The apples were
so big and fine they were picked by hand, wrapped in paper, packed in barrels, and all we could
not use at home went to J. B. White in Fort Wayne for the biggest fruit house in the state.
My! but father was proud!  He always packed especially fine ones for Mr. White's family.  He
said he liked him, because he was a real sandy Scotchman, who knew when an apple was right,
and wasn't afraid to say so.

On the south side of the orchard there was the earliest June apple tree.  The apples were small,
bright red with yellow stripes, crisp, juicy and sweet enough to be just right.  The tree was
very large, and so heavy it leaned far to the northeast.

This sounds like make-believe, but it's gospel truth.  Almost two feet from the ground there
was a big round growth, the size of a hash bowl. The tree must have been hurt when very small
and the place enlarged with the trunk.  Now it made a grand step.  If you understood that no
one could keep from running the last few rods from the tree, then figured on the help to be
had from this step, you could see how we went up it like squirrels.  All the bark on the south
side was worn away and the trunk was smooth and shiny.  The birds loved to nest among the branches,
and under the peach tree in the fence corner opposite was a big bed of my mother's favourite
wild flowers, blue-eyed Marys.  They had dainty stems from six to eight inches high and delicate
heads of bloom made up of little flowers, two petals up, blue, two turning down, white.  Perhaps
you don't know about anything prettier than that. There were maiden-hair ferns among them too!
and the biggest lichens you ever saw on the fence, while in the hollow of a rotten rail a little
chippy bird always built a hair nest.  She got the hairs at our barn, for most of them were
gray from our carriage horses, Ned and Jo. All down that side of the orchard the fence corners
were filled with long grass and wild flowers, a few alder bushes left to furnish berries for
the birds, and wild roses for us, to keep their beauty impressed on us, father said.

The east end ran along the brow of a hill so steep we coasted down it on the big meat board
all winter.  The board was six inches thick, two and a half feet wide, and six long.  Father
said slipping over ice and snow gave it the good scouring it needed, and it was thick enough
to last all our lives, so we might play with it as we pleased.  At least seven of us could
go skimming down that hill and halfway across the meadow on it.  In the very place we slid
across, in summer lay the cowslip bed.  The world is full of beautiful spots, but I doubt if
any of them ever were prettier than that.  Father called it swale.  We didn't sink deep, but
all summer there was water standing there.  The grass was long and very sweet, there were ferns
and a few calamus flowers, and there must have been an acre of cowslips--cowslips with big-veined,
heartshaped, green leaves, and large pale gold flowers.  I used to sit on the top rail of that
orchard fence and look down at them, and try to figure out what God was thinking when He created
them, and I wished that I might have been where I could watch His face as He worked.

Halfway across the east side was a gully where Leon and I found the Underground Station, and
from any place along the north you looked, you saw the Little Creek and the marsh.  At the
same time the cowslips were most golden, the marsh was blue with flags, pink with smart weed,
white and yellow with dodder, yellow with marsh buttercups having ragged frosty leaves, while
the yellow and the red birds flashed above it, the red crying, "Chip," "Chip," in short, sharp
notes, the yellow spilling music all over the marsh while on wing.

It would take a whole book to describe the butterflies; once in a while you scared up a big,
wonderful moth, large as a sparrow; and the orchard was alive with doves, thrushes, catbirds,
bluebirds, vireos, and orioles.  When you climbed the fence, or a tree, and kept quiet, and
heard the music and studied the pictures, it made you feel as if you had to put it into words.
I often had meeting all by myself, unless Bobby and Hezekiah were along, and I tried to tell
God what I thought about things.  Probably He was so busy making more birds and flowers for
other worlds, He never heard me; but I didn't say anything disrespectful at all, so it made
no difference if He did listen.  It just seemed as if I must tell what I thought, and I felt
better, not so full and restless after I had finished.

All of us were alike about that.  At that minute I knew mother was humming, as she did a dozen
times a day:

  "I think when I read that sweet story of old,
    When Jesus was here among men
  How He called little children as lambs to His fold,
    I should like to have been with Him then."

Lucy would be rocking her baby and singing, "Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber."  Candace's
favourite she made up about her man who had been killed in the war, when they had been married
only six weeks, which hadn't given her time to grow tired of him if he hadn't been "all her
fancy painted."  She arranged the words like "Ben Battle was a soldier bold," and she sang
them to suit herself, and cried every single minute:

  "They wrapped him in his uniform,
    They laid him in the tomb,
  My aching heart I thought 'twould break,
    But such was my sad doom."

Candace just loved that song.  She sang it all the time.  Leon said our pie always tasted salty
from her tears, and he'd take a bite and smile at her sweetly and say:  "How UNIFORM you get
your pie, Candace!"

May's favourite was "Joy Bells."  Father would be whispering over to himself the speech he
was preparing to make at the next prayer-meeting. We never could learn his speeches, because
he read and studied so much it kept his head so full, he made a new one every time.

I don't know how the Princess stood it.  If he had been singing that song where I could hear
it and I had known it was about me, as she must have known he meant her, I couldn't have kept
my arms from around his neck.  Over in the barn Leon was singing:

  "A life on the ocean wave,
  A home on the rolling deep,
  Where codfish waggle their tails
  'Mid tadpoles two feet deep."

The minute he finished, he would begin reciting "Marco Bozzaris," and you could be sure that
he would reach the last line only to commence on the speech of "Logan, Chief of the Mingoes,"
or any one of the fifty others.  He could make your hair stand a little straighter than any
one else; the best teachers we ever had, or even Laddie, couldn't make you shivery and creepy
as he could.  Because all of us kept going like that every day, people couldn't pass without
hearing, so THAT was what Mr. Pryor meant.

I had a pulpit in the southeast corner of the orchard.  I liked that place best of all because
from it you could see two sides at once.  The very first little, old log cabin that had been
on our land, the one my father and mother moved into, had stood in that corner.  It was all
gone now; but a flowerbed of tiny, purple iris, not so tall as the grass, spread there, and
some striped grass in the shadiest places, and among the flowers a lark brooded every spring.
In the fence corner mother's big white turkey hen always nested.  To protect her from rain
and too hot sun, father had slipped some boards between the rails about three feet from the
ground.  After the turkey left, that was my pulpit.

I stood there and used the top of the fence for my railing.

The little flags and all the orchard and birds were behind me; on one hand was the broad, grassy
meadow with the creek running so swiftly, I could hear it, and the breath of the cowslips came
up the hill. Straight in front was the lane running down from the barn, crossing the creek
and spreading into the woods pasture, where the water ran wider and yet swifter, big forest
trees grew, and bushes of berries, pawpaws, willow, everything ever found in an Indiana thicket;
grass under foot, and many wild flowers and ferns wherever the cattle and horses didn't trample
them, and bigger, wilder birds, many having names I didn't know.  On the left, across the lane,
was a large cornfield, with trees here and there, and down the valley I could see the Big Creek
coming from the west, the Big Hill with the church on top, and always the white gravestones
around it.  Always too there was the sky overhead, often with clouds banked until you felt
if you only could reach them, you could climb straight to the gates that father was so fond
of singing about sweeping through.  Mostly there was a big hawk or a turkey buzzard hanging
among them, just to show us that we were not so much, and that we couldn't shoot them, unless
they chose to come down and give us a chance.

I set Bobby and Hezekiah on the fence and stood between them.  "We will open service this morning
by singing the thirty-fifth hymn," I said. "Sister Dover, will you pitch the tune?"

Then I made my voice high and squeally like hers and sang:

  "Come ye that love the Lord,
  And let your joys be known,
  Join in a song of sweet accord,
  And thus surround the throne."

I sang all of it and then said:  "Brother Hastings, will you lead us in prayer?"

Then I knelt down, and prayed Brother Hastings' prayer.  I could have repeated any one of a
dozen of the prayers the men of our church prayed, but I liked Brother Hastings' best, because
it had the biggest words in it.  I loved words that filled your mouth, and sounded as if you
were used to books.  It began sort of sing-songy and measured in stops, like a poetry piece:

  "Our Heavenly Father:  We come before Thee this morning,
  Humble worms of the dust, imploring thy blessing.
  We beseech Thee to forgive our transgressions,
  Heal our backsliding, and love us freely."

Sometimes from there on it changed a little, but it always began and ended exactly the same
way.  Father said Brother Hastings was powerful in prayer, but he did wish he'd leave out the
"worms of the dust."  He said we were not "worms of the dust"; we were reasoning, progressive,
inventive men and women.  He said a worm would never be anything except a worm, but we could
study and improve ourselves, help others, make great machines, paint pictures, write books,
and go to an extent that must almost amaze the Almighty Himself.  He said that if Brother Hastings
had done more plowing in his time, and had a little closer acquaintance with worms, he wouldn't
be so ready to call himself and every one else a worm.  Now if you are talking about cutworms
or fishworms, father is right.  But there is that place where--"Charles his heel had raised,
upon the humble worm to tread," and the worm lifted up its voice and spake thus to Charles:

  "I know I'm now among the things
    Uncomely to your sight,
  But, by and by, on splendid wings,
    You'll see me high and bright."

Now I'll bet a cent THAT is the kind of worm Brother Hastings said we were.  I must speak to
father about it.  I don't want him to be mistaken; and I really think he is about worms.  Of
course he knows the kind that have wings and fly.  Brother Hastings mixed him up by saying
"worms of the dust" when he should have said worms of the leaves. Those that go into little
round cases in earth or spin cocoons on trees always live on leaves, and many of them rear
the head, having large horns, and wave it in a manner far from humble.  So father and Brother
Hastings were both partly right, and partly wrong.

When the prayer came to a close, where every one always said "Amen," I punched Bobby and whispered,
"Crow, Bobby, crow!" and he stood up and brought it out strong, like he always did when I told
him.  I had to stop the service to feed him a little wheat, to pay him for crowing; but as
no one was there except us, that didn't matter.  Then Hezekiah crowded over for some, so I
had to pretend I was Mrs. Daniels feeding her children caraway cake, like she always did in
meeting.  If I had been the mother of children who couldn't have gone without things to eat
in church I'd have kept them at home.  Mrs. Daniels always had the carpet greasy with cake
crumbs wherever she sat, and mother didn't think the Lord liked a dirty church any more than
we would have wanted a mussy house.  When I had Bobby and Hezekiah settled I took my text from
my head, because I didn't know the meeting feeling was coming on me when I started, and I had
brought no Bible along.

"Blessed are all men, but most blessed are they who hold their tempers."  I had to stroke Bobby
a little and pat Hezekiah once in a while, to keep them from flying down and fighting, but
mostly I could give my attention to my sermon.

"We have only to look around us this morning to see that all men are blessed," I said.  "The
sky is big enough to cover every one.  If the sun gets too hot, there are trees for shade or
the clouds come up for a while.  If the earth becomes too dry, it always rains before it is
everlastingly too late.  There are birds enough to sing for every one, butterflies enough to
go around, and so many flowers we can't always keep the cattle and horses from tramping down
and even devouring beautiful ones, like Daniel thought the lions would devour him--but they
didn't.  Wouldn't it be a good idea, O Lord, for You to shut the cows' mouths and save the
cowslips also; they may not be worth as much as a man, but they are lots better looking, and
they make fine greens. It doesn't seem right for cows to eat flowers; but maybe it is as right
for them as it is for us.  The best way would be for our cattle to do like that piece about
the cow in the meadow exactly the same as ours:

  "'And through it ran a little brook,
    Where oft the cows would drink,
  And then lie down among the flowers,
    That grew upon the brink.'

"You notice, O Lord, the cows did not eat the flowers in this instance; they merely rested
among them, and goodness knows, that's enough for any cow.  They had better done like the next
verse, where it says:

  "'They like to lie beneath the trees,
    All shaded by the boughs,
  Whene'er the noontide heat came on:
    Sure, they were happy cows!'

"Now, O Lord, this plainly teaches that if cows are happy, men should be much more so, for
like the cows, they have all Thou canst do for them, and all they can do for themselves, besides.
So every man is blessed, because Thy bounty has provided all these things for him, without
money and without price.  If some men are not so blessed as others, it is their own fault,
and not Yours.  You made the earth, and all that is therein, and You made the men.  Of course
You had to make men different, so each woman can tell which one belongs to her; but I believe
it would have been a good idea while You were at it, if You would have made all of them enough
alike that they would all work. Perhaps it isn't polite of me to ask more of You than You saw
fit to do; and then, again, it may be that there are some things impossible, even to You. 
If there is anything at all, seems as if making Isaac Thomas work would be it.  Father says
that man would rather starve and see his wife and children hungry than to take off his coat,
roll up his sleeves, and plow corn; so it was good enough for him when Leon said, 'Go to the
ant, thou sluggard,' right at him.  So, of course, Isaac is not so blessed as some men, because
he won't work, and thus he never knows whether he's going to have a big dinner on Sunday, until
after some one asks him, because he looks so empty.  Mother thinks it isn't fair to feed Isaac
and send him home with his stomach full, while Mandy and the babies are sick and hungry.  But
Isaac is some blessed, because he has religion and gets real happy, and sings, and shouts,
and he's going to Heaven when he dies.  He must wish he'd go soon, especially in winter.

"There are men who do not have even this blessing, and to make things worse, O Lord, they get
mad as fire and hit their horses, and look like all possessed.  The words of my text this morning
apply especially to a man who has all the blessings Thou hast showered and flowered upon men
who work, or whose people worked and left them so much money they don't need to, and yet a
sadder face I never saw, or a crosser one.  He looks like he was going to hit people, and he
does hit his horse an awful crack.  It's no way to hit a horse, not even if it balks, because
it can't hit back, and it's a cowardly thing to do.  If you rub their ears and talk to them,
they come quicker, O our Heavenly Father, and if you hit them just because you are mad, it's
a bigger sin yet.

"No man is nearly so blessed as he might be who goes around looking killed with grief when
he should cheer up, no matter what ails him; and who shuts up his door and says his wife is
sick when she isn't, and who scowls at every one, when he can be real pleasant if he likes,
as some in Divine Presence can testify.  So we are going to beseech Thee, O Lord, to lay Thy
mighty hand upon the man who got mad this beautiful morning and make him feel Thy might, until
he will know for himself and not another, that You are not a myth.  Teach him to have a pleasant
countenance, an open door, and to hold his temper.  Help him to come over to our house and
be friendly with all his neighbours, and get all the blessings You have provided for every
one; but please don't make him have any more trouble than he has now, for if You do, You'll
surely kill him.  Have patience with him, and have mercy on him, O Lord!  Let us pray."

That time I prayed myself.  I looked into the sky just as straight and as far as I could see,
and if I had any influence at all, I used it then.  Right out loud, I just begged the Lord
to get after Mr. Pryor and make him behave like other people, and let the Princess come to
our house, and for him to come too; because I liked him heaps when he was lion hunting, and
I wanted to go with him again the worst way.  I had seen him sail right over the fences on
his big black horse, and when he did it in England, wearing a red coat, and the dogs flew over
thick around him, it must have looked grand, but it was mighty hard on the fox.  I do hope
it got away.  Anyway, I prayed as hard as I could, and every time I said the strongest thing
I knew, I punched Bobby to crow, and he never came out stronger.  Then I was Sister Dover and
started: "Oh come let us gather at the fountain, the fountain that never goes dry."

Just as I was going to pronounce the benediction like father, I heard something, so I looked
around, and there went he and Dr. Fenner.  They were going toward the house, and yet, they
hadn't passed me.  I was not scared, because I knew no one was sick.  Dr. Fenner always stopped
when he passed, if he had a minute, and if he hadn't, mother sent some one to the gate with
buttermilk and slices of bread and butter, and jelly an inch thick.  When a meal was almost
cooked she heaped some on a plate and he ate as he drove and left the plate next time he passed.
Often he was so dead tired, he was asleep in his buggy, and his old gray horse always stopped
at our gate.

I ended with "Amen," because I wanted to know if they had been listening; so I climbed the
fence, ran down the lane behind the bushes, and hid a minute.  Sure enough they had!  I suppose
I had been so in earnest I hadn't heard a sound, but it's a wonder Hezekiah hadn't told me.
He was always seeing something to make danger signals about.  He never let me run on a snake,
or a hawk get one of the chickens, or Paddy Ryan come too close.  I only wanted to know if
they had gone and listened, and then I intended to run straight back to Bobby and Hezekiah;
but they stopped under the greening apple tree, and what they said was so interesting I waited
longer than I should, because it's about the worst thing you can do to listen when older people
don't know.  They were talking about me.

"I can't account for her," said father.

"I can!" said Dr. Fenner.  "She is the only child I ever have had in my practice who managed
to reach earth as all children should.  During the impressionable stage, no one expected her,
so there was no time spent in worrying, fretting, and discontent.  I don't mean that these
things were customary with Ruth.  No woman ever accepted motherhood in a more beautiful spirit;
but if she would have protested at any time, it would have been then.  Instead, she lived happily,
naturally, and enjoyed herself as she never had before.  She was in the fields, the woods,
and the garden constantly, which accounts for this child's outdoor tendencies.  Then you must
remember that both of you were at top notch intellectually, and physically, fully matured.
She had the benefit of ripened minds, and at a time when every faculty recently had been stirred
by the excitement and suffering of the war.  Oh, you can account for her easily enough, but
I don't know what on earth you are going to do with her.  You'll have to go careful, Paul.
I warn you she will not be like the others."

"We realize that.  Mother says she doubts if she can ever teach her to sew and become a housewife."

"She isn't cut out for a seamstress or a housewife, Paul.  Tell Ruth not to try to force those
things on her.  Turn her loose out of doors; give her good books, and leave her alone.  You
won't be disappointed in the woman who evolves."

Right there I realized what I was doing, and I turned and ran for the pulpit with all my might.
I could always repeat things, but I couldn't see much sense to the first part of that; the
last was as plain as the nose on your face.  Dr. Fenner said they mustn't force me to sew,
and do housework; and mother didn't mind the Almighty any better than she did the doctor. 
There was nothing in this world I disliked so much as being kept indoors, and made to hem cap
and apron strings so particularly that I had to count the number of threads between every stitch,
and in each stitch, so that I got all of them just exactly even.  I liked carpet rags a little
better, because I didn't have to be so particular about stitches, and I always picked out all
the bright, pretty colours.

Mother said she could follow my work all over the floor by the bright spots.  Perhaps if I
were not to be kept in the house I wouldn't have to sew any more.  That made me so happy I
wondered if I couldn't stretch out my arms and wave them and fly.  I sat on the pulpit wishing
I had feathers.  It made me pretty blue to have to stay on the ground all the time, when I
wanted to be sailing up among the clouds with the turkey buzzards.

Of course, I never heard a turkey buzzard sing.  Laddie said they couldn't; but that didn't
prove it.  He said half the members of our church couldn't sing, but they DID; and when all
of them were going at the tops of their voices, it was just grand.

That was so exciting I thought I'd just try it, so I stood on the top rail, spread my arms,
waved them, and started.  I was bumped in fifty places when I rolled into the cowslip bed at
the foot of the steep hill, for stones stuck out all over the side of it, and I felt pretty
mean as I climbed back to the pulpit.

The only consolation I had was what Dr. Fenner had said.  That would be the greatest possible
help in managing father or mother.

I was undecided about whether I would go to school, or not.  Must be perfectly dreadful to
dress like for church, and sit still in a stuffy little room, and do your "abs," and "bes,"
and "bis," and "bos," all day long.  I could spell quite well without looking at a schoolhouse,
and read too.  I was wondering if I ever would go at all, when I thought of something else.
Dr. Fenner had said to give me plenty of good books.  I was wild for some that were already
promised me.  Well, what would they amount to if I couldn't understand them when I got them?
THAT seemed to make it sure I would be compelled to go to school until I learned enough to
understand what the books contained about birds, flowers, and moths, anyway; and perhaps there
would be some having Fairies in them.  Of course those would be interesting.

I never hated doing anything so badly, in all my life, but I could see, with no one to tell
me, that I had put it off as long as I dared.  I would just have to start school when Leon
and May went in September. Tilly Baher, who lived across the swamp near Sarah Hood, had gone
two winters already, and she was only a year older, and not half my size. I stood on the pulpit
and looked a long time in every direction, into the sky the longest of all.  It was settled.
I must go; I might as well start and have it over.  I couldn't look anywhere, right there at
home, and not see more things I didn't know about than I did.  When mother showed me in the
city, I wouldn't be snapped up like hot cakes; I'd be a blockhead no one would have.  It made
me so vexed to think I had to go, I set Hezekiah on my shoulder, took Bobby under my arm, and
went to the house.  On the way, I made up my mind that I would ask again, very politely, to
hold the little baby, and if the rest of them went and pigged it up straight along, I'd pinch
it, if I got a chance.

Of course the baby was asleep and couldn't be touched; but there was some excitement, anyway.
Father had come from town with a letter from the new school teacher, that said she would expect
him to meet her at the station next Saturday.  Mother thought she might as well get the room
ready and let her stay at our house, because we were most convenient, and it would be the best
place for her.  She said that every time, and the teacher always stayed with us.  Really it
was because father and mother wanted the teacher where they could know as much as possible
about what was going on.  Sally didn't like having her at all; she said with the wedding coming,
the teacher would be a nuisance.  Shelley had finished our school, and the Groveville high
school, and instead of attending college she was going to Chicago to study music.  She was
so anxious over her dresses and getting started, she didn't seem to think much about what was
going to happen to us at home; so she didn't care if Miss Amelia stayed at our house.  May
said it would be best to have the teacher with us, because she could help us with our lessons
at home, and we could get ahead of the others.  May already had decided that she would be at
the head of her class when she finished school, and every time you wanted her and couldn't
find her, if you would look across the foot of mother's bed, May would be there with a spelling
book.  Once she had spelled down our school, when Laddie was not there.

Father had met Peter Dover in town, and he had said that he was coming to see Sally, because
he had something of especial importance to tell her.

"Did he say what it was?" asked Sally.

"Only what I have told you," replied father.

Sally wanted to take the broom and sweep the parlour.

"It's clean as a ribbon," said mother.

"If you go in there, you'll wake the baby," said Lucy.

"Will it kill it if I do?" asked Sally.

"No, but it will make it cross as fire, so it will cry all the time Peter is here," said Lucy.

"I'll be surprised if it doesn't scream every minute anyway," said Sally.

"I hope it will," said Lucy.  "That will make Peter think a while before he comes so often."

That made Sally so angry she couldn't speak, so she went out and began killing chickens.  I
helped her catch them.  They were so used to me they would come right to my feet when I shelled
corn.

"I'm going to kill three," said Sally.  "I'm going to be sure we have enough, but don't you
tell until their heads are off."

While she was working on them mother came out and asked how many she had, so Sally said three.
Mother counted us and said that wasn't enough; there would have to be four at least.

After she was gone Sally looked at me and said:  "Well, for land's sake!"

It was so funny she had to laugh, and by the time I caught the fourth one, and began helping
pick them, she was over being provoked and we had lots of fun.

The minute I saw Peter Dover he made me think of something.  I rode his horse to the barn with
Leon leading it.  There we saw Laddie.

"Guess what!" I cried.

"Never could!" laughed Laddie, giving Peter Dover's horse a slap as it passed him on the way
to a stall.

"Four chickens, ham, biscuit, and cake!" I announced.

"Is it a barbecue?" asked Laddie.

"No, the extra one is for the baby," said Leon.  "Squally little runt, I call it."

"It's a nice baby!" said Laddie.

"What do you know about it?" demanded Leon.

"Well, considering that I started with you, and have brought up two others since, I am schooled
in all there is to know," said Laddie.

"Guess what else!" I cried.

"More?" said Laddie.  "Out with it!  Don't kill me with suspense."

"Father is going to town Saturday to meet the new teacher and she will stay at our house as usual."

Leon yelled and fell back in a manger, while Laddie held harness oil to his nose.

"More!" cried Leon, grabbing the bottle.

"Are you sure?" asked Laddie of me earnestly.

"It's decided.  Mother said so," I told him.

"Name of a black cat, why?" demanded Laddie.

"Mother said we were most convenient for the teacher."

"Aren't there enough of us?" asked Leon, straightening up sniffing harness oil as if his life
depended on it.

"Any unprejudiced person would probably say so to look in," said Laddie.

"I'll bet she'll be sixty and a cat," said Leon.  "Won't I have fun with her?"

"Maybe so, maybe not!" said Laddie.  "You can't always tell, for sure. Remember your Alamo!
You were going to have fun with the teacher last year, but she had it with you."

Leon threw the oil bottle at him.  Laddie caught it and set it on the shelf.

"I don't understand," said Leon.

"I do," said Laddie dryly.  "THIS is one reason."  He hit Peter Dover's horse another slap.

"Maybe yes," said Leon.

"Shelley to music school, two."

"Yes," said Leon.  "Peter Dovers are the greatest expense, and Peter won't happen but once.
Shelley will have at least two years in school before it is her turn, and you come next, anyway."

"Shut up!" cried Laddie.

"Thanky!  Your orders shall be obeyed gladly."

He laid down the pitchfork, went outside, closed the door, and latched it.  Laddie called to
him, but he ran to the house.  When Laddie and I finished our work, and his, and wanted to
go, we had to climb the stairs and leave through the front door on the embankment.

"The monkey!" said Laddie, but he didn't get mad; he just laughed.

The minute I stepped into the house and saw the parlour door closed, I thought of that "something"
again.  I walked past it, but couldn't hear anything.  Of course mother wanted to know; and
she would be very thankful to me if I could tell her.  I went out the front door, and thought
deeply on the situation.  The windows were wide open, but I was far below them and I could
only hear a sort of murmur.  Why can't people speak up loud and plain, anyway?  Of course they
would sit on the big haircloth sofa.  Didn't Leon call it the "sparking bench"?  The hemlock
tree would be best.  I climbed quieter than a cat, for they break bark and make an awful scratching
with their claws sometimes; my bare feet were soundless.  Up and up I went, slowly, for it
was dreadfully rough.  They were not on the sofa.  I could see plainly through the needles.
Then I saw the spruce would have been better, for they were standing in front of the parlour
door and Peter had one hand on the knob.  His other arm was around my sister Sally.  Breathlessly
I leaned as far as I could, and watched.

"Father said he'd give me the money to buy a half interest, and furnish a house nicely, if
you said 'yes,' Sally," said Peter.

Sally leaned back all pinksome and blushful, and while she laughed at him she

  "Carelessly tossed off a curl
   That played on her delicate brow."

exactly like Mary Dow in McGuffey's Third.

"Well, what did I SAY?" she asked.

"Come to think of it, you didn't say anything."

Sally's face was all afire with dancing lights, and she laughed the gayest little laugh.

"Are you so very sure of that, Peter?" she said.

"I'm not sure of anything," said Peter, "except that I am so happy I could fly."

"Try it, fool!" I said to myself, deep in my throat.

Sally laughed again, and Peter took his other hand from the door and put that arm around Sally
too, and he drew her to him and kissed her, the longest, hardest kiss I ever saw.  I let go
and rolled, tumbled, slid, and scratched down the hemlock tree, dropped from the last branch
to the ground, and scampered around the house.  I reached the dining-room door when every one
was gathering for supper.

"Mother!" I cried.  "Mother!  Yes!  They're engaged!  He's kissing her, mother!  Yes, Lucy,
they're engaged!"

I rushed in to tell all of them what they would be glad to know, and if there didn't stand
Peter and Sally!  How they ever got through that door, and across the sitting-room before me,
I don't understand.  Sally made a dive at me, and I was so astonished I forgot to run, so she
caught me.  She started for the wood house with me, and mother followed.  Sally turned at the
door and she was the whitest of anything you ever saw.

"This is my affair," she said.  "I'll attend to this young lady."

"Very well," said mother, and as I live she turned and left me to my sad fate, as it says in
a story book we have.  I wish when people are going to punish me, they'd take a switch and
strike respectably, like mother does.  This thing of having some one get all over me, and not
having an idea where I'm going to be hit, is the worst punishment that I ever had.  I'd been
down the hill and up the hemlock that day, anyway.  I'd always been told Sally didn't want
me.  She PROVED it right then.  Finally she quit, because she was too tired to strike again,
so I crept among the shavings on the work bench and went to sleep.  I THOUGHT they would like
to know, and that I was going to please them.

Anyway, they found out, for by the time Sally got back Peter had told them about the store,
and the furnished house, and asked father for Sally right before all of them, which father
said was pretty brave; but Peter knew it was all right or he couldn't have come like he'd been
doing.

After that, you couldn't hear anything at our house but wedding. Sally's share of linen and
bedding was all finished long ago.  Father took her to Fort Wayne on the cars to buy her wedding,
travelling, and working dresses, and her hat, cloak, and linen, like you have when you marry.

It was strange that Sally didn't want mother to go, but she said the trip would tire her too
much.  Mother said it was because Sally could coax more dresses from father.  Anyway, mother
told him to set a limit and stick to it.  She said she knew he hadn't done it as she got the
first glimpse of Sally's face when they came back, but the child looked so beautiful and happy
she hadn't the heart to spoil her pleasure.

The next day a sewing woman came; and all of them were shut up in the sitting-room, while the
sewing machine just whizzed on the working dresses.  Sally said the wedding dress had to be
made by hand.  She kept the room locked, and every new thing that they made was laid away on
the bed in the parlour bedroom, and none of us had a peep until everything was finished.  It
was awfully exciting, but I wouldn't pretend I cared, because I was huffy at her.  I told her
I wouldn't kiss her goodbye, and I'd be GLAD when she was gone.

Sally said the school-ma'am simply had to go to Winters', or some place else, but mother said
possibly a stranger would have some ideas, and know some new styles, so Sally then thought
maybe they had better try it a few days, and she could have her place and be company when she
and Shelley left.  Shelley was rather silent and blue, and before long I found her crying,
because mother had told her she couldn't start for Chicago until after the wedding, and that
would make her miss six weeks at the start.

Next day word was sent around that school was to begin the coming Monday; so Saturday afternoon
the people who had children large enough to go sent the biggest of them to clean the schoolhouse.
May, Leon, and I went to do our share.  Just when there were about a bushel of nut shells,
and withered apple cores, and inky paper on the floor, the blackboard half cleaned, and ashes
trailed deep between the stove and the window Billy Wilson was throwing them from, some one
shouted: "There comes Mr. Stanton with Her."

All of us dropped everything and ran to the south windows.  I tell you I was proud of our big
white team as it came prancing down the hill, and the gleaming patent leather trimmings, and
the brass side lamps shining in the sun.  Father sat very straight, driving rather fast, as
if he would as lief get it over with, and instead of riding on the back seat, where mother
always sat, the teacher was in front beside him, and she seemed to be talking constantly. 
We looked at each other and groaned when father stopped at the hitching post and got out. 
If we had tried to see what a dreadful muss we could make, things could have looked no worse.
I think father told her to wait in the carriage, but we heard her cry:  "Oh Mr. Stanton, let
me see the dear children I'm to teach, and where I'm to work."

Hopped is the word.  She hopped from the carriage and came hopping after father.  She was as
tall as a clothes prop and scarcely as fat. There were gray hairs coming on her temples.  Her
face was sallow and wrinkled, and she had faded, pale-blue eyes.  Her dress was like my mother
had worn several years before, in style, and of stiff gray stuff.  She made me feel that no
one wanted her at home, and probably that was the reason she had come so far away.

Every one stood dumb.  Mother always went to meet people and May was old enough to know it.
She went, but she looked exactly as she does when the wafer bursts and the quinine gets in
her mouth, and she doesn't dare spit it out, because it costs five dollars a bottle, and it's
going to do her good.  Father introduced May and some of the older children, and May helped
him with the others, and then he told us to "dig in and work like troopers," and he would take
Miss Pollard on home.

"Oh do let me remain and help the dear children!" she cried.

"We can finish!" we answered in full chorus.