    [To each man of the Crews of the three Life-boats stationed
    in the Isle of Wight, at Brighstone, Brook and Atherfield,
    respectively, Mr. Punch has had pleasure and pride in
    presenting an illuminated copy of the Picture and Poem
    entitled "MR. PUNCH TO THE LIFE-BOAT MEN," which appeared in
    his issue of February 13. The names of the coxswains and crews
    of these three boats, the Worcester Cadet, the William
    Slaney Lewis, and the Catherine Swift, are inscribed
    thereon (as they should be in the memories of all true
    Britons), as follows:--Of the Worcester Cadet, JAMES COTTON
    (Coxswain), ROBERT BUCKETT (Second Coxswain), ROBERT SALTER,
    WILLIAM BARTON, FRANK EDMUNDS, FRANK BUCKETT, GEORGE NEW,
    GEORGE MORRIS, GEORGE SHOTTER, GEORGE HAWKER, EDGAR WHITE,
    WILLIAM MERWOOD, and JAMES HEDGECOCK.

    Of the William Slaney Lewis, JOHN HAYTER (Coxswain), BEN
    JACOBS (Second Coxswain), ROBERT COOPER, W. JACOBS, J. COOKE,
    G. WHITE, W. CASSELL, T. HOOKEY, J. NEWBURY, J. COOPER, J.
    HOOKEY, R. WOODFORD, M. CASSELL, WILLIAM HAYTER, W. BLAKE, and
    W. HOOKEY.

    Of the Catherine Swift, WILLIAM COTTON (Coxswain), DAVID
    COTTON (Second Coxswain), JAMES COTTON, THOMAS COTTON, FRANK
    COTTON, JOHN COTTON, CHARLES COTTON, WALTER WOODFORD, WALTER
    WHITE, CHARLES HARDING, and B. WHILLIER.

    These names thus receive--as they deserve--honourable record
    "For distinguished bravery and gallant conduct whilst on duty
    on the occasion of the wreck of the s.s. Eider, January 31,
    1892."]

  On the Scroll! And why not? Be you sure that it bears
  Many entries less worthy of record than theirs,
  The rough sea-faring fellows, whose names now go down,
  With applause from their Sovereign to swell their renown,
  To posterity's ears. And right pleasantly, too,
  They should sound on those ears; for, run over each crew
  And you'll find that those names have a true homely smack
  Both of country and kinship; there's JIM, there is Jack,
  There is BOB, there is BILL, TOM and GEORGE, CHARLIE, FRANK;
  Can you not hear them sound o'er the waves as in rank
  They go down to their work, ringing right cheery hail
  Through the shrieks of the storm that shall not make them pale,
  Those bold Britons? They're brothers, sires, cousins, and sons,
  For see how the "family name" through them runs
  Those COTTONS could make up a crew at a pinch!
  Whilst the HOOKEYS and WHITES from that task need not flinch.
  Yes, these names sound as well on the Scroll, after all,
  As NAPOLEON or CÆSAR; and when the Great Call
  Of the last human Muster Roll comes, some plain "BILL,"
  Whose business was rather to save than to kill,
  May step before mad ALEXANDER.
                                 Well, brothers,
  (You BUCKETTS, and WOODFORDS and COOPERS and others,
  Whose names he need hardly string into his rhymes,)
  Punch hopes you may look on this Record sometimes
  With pleasant reflections. Mere words, he well knows,
  Will not--"butter your parsnips"--(to put sense in prose):
  But you have his hearty good will, and you know it,--
  Right gladly he takes this occasion to show it!
  And when or wherever another should come,
  Be sure your friend Punch won't be careless or dumb!

       *       *       *       *       *

CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

VI.--THE DUFFER AT WHIST.

(CONTINUED.)

I am really fond of the game, which is fortunate, though my partners don't think so; but I
am free to confess, that nothing short of an absorbing admiration for it and desire to excel,
could tempt me to brave the sarcasms, even insults, to which I am subjected. Your thoroughgoing
Whist-player as such--admirable in private life as I personally know him to be--the moment
he begins the daily business of his life, seems to cast his better nature to the winds. At
another time and place he would lend a sympathetic ear to any tale of woe; now and here nothing
seems to interest him but his own immediate welfare, which he pursues with concentrated energy
and earnestness. I verily believe that if, at one of two adjoining tables, the chandelier fell
on the players' heads to their exceeding detriment, the occupants of the other table would
scarcely lift their eyes or interrupt their rubber for one moment. Fiant chartæ ruat coelum--let
the cards be made whatever chandeliers fall.

The players at my Club are all good, one especially so, a retired Colonel of a West Indian
regiment, of whom I stand in mortal dread. He has short shrift for any failings, even of players
nearly as good as himself, whilst as for me! though he has never yet resorted to personal violence
with a chair-leg, yet that would not surprise me; and my pestilent fate in defiance of all
mathematical odds in such case made and provided, is to cut him as my partner three and four
times in succession in an evening. I sometimes have glimmerings of sense, and in hands presenting
no particular difficulty, if they contain plenty of good cards--can manage to scrape along
in a way I think fairly satisfactory even--to him, though he never encourages me by saying
so. But an awful thing happened the other night. I had played one rubber with him and won it,
though it was only a rubber of two instead of a bumper, as it would have been if I had played
properly--for being in doubt and remembering the adage, I had led a trump, but it subsequently
turned out that the adversaries had called for them. Now I never see an adversaries' call,
and but rarely those of my partner, unless when made glaringly conspicuous by a ten and a two,
so I led this wretched card with disastrous results.

However, my partner accepted the situation with unexpected suavity, merely remarking pleasantly,
as an item of general interest, "The only time my partner ever leads a trump is when the adversaries
call." I smiled inanely--what else could I do? for I was dimly conscious that the stricture
might have justification in fact. Yes, this was bad; but worse remains behind. In the last
hand of the next rubber, my partner had four trumps; so had I; he had, besides a very long
suit; hence he extracted the trumps, and we were left with the last two between us, mine being
the better. I got the lead, of course, exactly at the time I did not want it; although everyone
else knew where the smaller trump was, I did not, so I drew it from my partner's hand, and
then led him a card of which he had none in the suit; this card, as ill-luck would have it,
belonged to an enormously long suit, of which one of the adversaries had entire control. So
this gentleman got in and made about six tricks in it, finishing up with the two; he therefore
made with his spades all--indeed, I rather think more tricks than the Colonel ought to have
made in his diamonds, each of which, now losing cards, he successively banged down with increasing
anger and turbulence of gesture, as the enormity of my crime was borne in upon him. It was
the deciding game of a rubber; the adversaries' score had stood at one, while we were at two,
and besides, we had had two by honours; as they made four by cards, they went out--and so did
I--not without an obbligato accompaniment on muted strings; unwhispered whispers of "confounded
blockhead!" "blundering idiot!" "well, of all the born fools!" and similar objurgations.

When I came to think the matter over in cold blood, I could see that my proper course would
have been to lead the losing card before drawing my partner's trump. I merely made a mistake
(a fatal one I grant) in the order of playing them. That was all.

       *       *       *       *       *

My friend goes on to make learned remarks about "American leads," "the fourth best," and the
difficulties of playing a knave; lead him at once, I think, on Dogberry's principle: and "thank
heaven you are rid of a knave."

The depths of my guilt may be guessed from the fact that many of my Mentor's explanations are
Hittite to me. People talking of laying up a wretched old age by not playing, I should be laying
it up for other people if I did play much. Half-crown points, a partner who knows how to score
(those counters and candlesticks, or the machines with little bone grave-stones that shut up
with a snap, bother me), and amiable conversation on well-chosen topics while the game goes
on, make the kind of Whist that I enjoy. We used to play it in Common Room in the happy past;
it was easier than Loo, which I never quite understood. The rigour of the game is the ruin
of Whist.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR SONGS RE-SUNG.

    "Sich a Nice Man Too!" is one of the latest, and greatest,
    successes of the clever Coster Laureate, Mr. ALBERT CHEVALIER,
    who, "Funny without being Vulgar," proves that he, the Muse
    of the Market Cart, and Bard of the Barrow, "Knocks 'em in the
    Old Kent Road,"--and elsewhere--with well-deserved success.
    As is ever the case with the works of genuine genius, "liberal
    applications lie" in his "patter" songs, the enjoyment of
    which need by no means be confined to the Coster and his
    chums. For example, at Caucus-Conferences and places where
    they sing--and shout--the following might be rendered with
    relish:--

NO. VII.--SICH A SMART MAN TOO!

(COSTER-JIM ON CORKUS-JOE.)

  There's party-men yer meets about
    What wins yer 'eart instanter;
  Of their success there's ne'er a doubt,
    They romps in in a canter.
  There's one as means to lick the lot,
    Brum JOE, the artf'llst dodger.
  For 'im we Rads went 'ot and 'ot;
    Sez we, "Yus, JOE's the codger!"

Chorus.

  Sich a smart man too! Sich a very smart man!
  No Tory pride, no toffish affectation!
    Yet 'e somehow makes yer feel
    That in 'im yer 'ave to deal
  With a gent, if not by buth, by edgercation!

  'E made 'is pile in a snide way,--
    "Down on ther nail," 'is motter--
  Went to the front, and came to stay;
    Whigs might pertest and potter.
  'Is game wos doin' the poor good,
    And doin' of it 'andsome.
  JACK CADE they called 'im,--which wos rude--
    'Acos 'e talked o' ransom!

Chorus.

  Sich a smart man too! Sich a very smart man!
  No "Lily" pride, no blue--blood affectation!
    Yet he somehow made yer feel
    That in 'im yer 'ad to deal
  With a gent by nature and by edgercation!

  You ought to seen 'im on the stump,
    Smart frock and stiff shirt collar;
  Got up regardless, clean-cut chump,
    Orchid for button-'oler!
  'E cocked a snook at pride o' race.
    We shouted "Brayvo, BRUMMY!
  Peg on, we'll put yer in fust place;
    Then won't old WEG look rummy?"

Chorus.

  Sich a smart man too! Sich a very smart man!
  No Rip wan Winkle HARTY affectation!
    Yet 'e somehow made yer feel
    That 'e jest knowed 'ow to deal
  With the "Gentlemen" by buth and edgercation.

  Acrost 'is phiz there stole a smile,
    Like sunshine in November.
  Sez 'e, "I'm for the Sons o' Tile!"
    O yus, don't we remember!
  We fancied JOE wos one of hus,
    A cove we might ha' trusted.
  Now you should 'ear the Corkus cuss
    At the Brum bubble--busted!

Chorus.

  Sich a smart man too! Sich a very smart man!
  No orty scorn, no "arm-cheer" affectation!
    One as somehow made yer feel
    'E alone knowed 'ow to deal
  With Allotments, Taxes and Free Edgercation!

  'E chose to play at hodd man hout;
    'E ain't the fust by many
  Wot's tried to Tommy-Dodd the rout
    With a two-'eaded penny.
  It's broke our trust; 'e can go 'ome
    With Toffdom for next neighbour.