i"?Life: Its True Genesis

By R. W. Wright

[Masoretic Hebrew.]--xOe squaredxx(C)OeOe1/2x" x-Oe.x"Oe deg.xcxx"Oe3/4x'Oexoe xcOe.xoeOe3/4x"OexOeOe'x"Oexcxf.--

IYa1/2-- I"a1/2 IfIEuroa1/2 cubedII1/4I+- I+-a1/2I"I?a?| a1/4I1/2 I+-a1/2I"a?. II+-I"a1/2 deg.
I cubeda1/2 cubedI1/2I?I, a1/4IEuroa1/2 I"a?I, I cubeda?I,. [Septuagint.]

"Whose general principle of life, each in itself after its own kind, is upon the earth." [Correct
Translation.]

Second Edition

1884

RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO ARTHUR E. HOTCHKISS, ESQ. OF CHESHIRE, CONN.

Contents.

Prefatory

Chapter I.    Introductory. Chapter II.   Life--Its True Genesis. Chapter III.  Alternations
of Forest Growths. Chapter IV.   The Distribution and Vitality of Seeds. Chapter V.    Plant
Migration and Interglacial Periods. Chapter VI.   Distribution and Permanence of Species. Chapter
VII.  What Is Life? Its Various Theories. Chapter VIII. Materialistic Theories of Life Refuted.
Chapter IX.   Force-Correlation, Differentiation and Other Life Theories. Chapter X.    Darwinism
Considered from a Vitalistic Stand-point.

Preface to Second Edition.

Here is the law of life, as laid down by the eagle-eyed prophet Isaiah, in that remarkable
chapter commencing, "Ho, every one that thirsteth"--whether it be after knowledge, or any other
earthly or spiritual good--come unto me and I will give you that which you seek. This is the
spirit of the text, and these are the words at the commencement of the tenth verse:

"As the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth
the earth, and maketh it (the earth) bring forth and bud (not first bud, bear seed, and then
bring forth), that it (the earth) may give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater (man being
the only sower of seed and eater of bread): so shall my Word be (the Word of Life) that goeth
forth out of my mouth (the mouth of the Lord); it shall not return unto me void (i.e., lifeless),
but it shall accomplish that which I (the Lord Jehovah) please, and it (the living Word) shall
prosper in the thing whereto I sent it."

This formula of life is as true now as it was over two thousand six hundred years ago, when
it was penned by the divinely inspired prophet, and it is as true now as it was then, that
"Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the briar shall come up the
myrtle tree; and it shall be to the Lord for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not
be cut off." That is, as the rains descend and the floods come and change the face of the earth,
a law, equivalent to the divine command, "Let the earth bring forth," is forever operative,
changing the face of nature and causing it to give expression to new forms of life as the conditions
thereof are changed, and these forms are spoken into existence by the divine fiat.

In all the alternations of forest growths that are taking place to-day, on this continent or
elsewhere, this one vital law is traceable everywhere. In the course of the next year, it will
be as palpable in the Island of Java, recently desolated by the most disastrous earthquake
recorded in history, as in any other portion of the earth, however free from such volcanic
action. On the very spot where mountain ranges disappeared in a flaming sea of fire, and other
ranges were thrown up in parallel lines but on different bases, and where it was evident that
every seed, plant, tree, and thing of life perished in one common vortex of ruin, animal as
well as vegetable life will make its appearance in obedience to this law, as soon as the rains
shall again descend, cool the basaltic and other rocks, and the life-giving power referred
to by Isaiah once more become operative. There is no more doubt of this in the mind of the
learned naturalist, than in that of the most devout believer of the Bible, from which this
most remarkable formula is taken.

We have no disposition to arraign the American and European "Agnostics," as they are pleased
to call themselves, for using the term "Nature" instead of God, in their philosophical writings.

As long as they are evidently earnest seekers after Truth as it is to be found in nature--the
work of God--they are most welcome into the temple of science, and their theories deserve our
thoughtful consideration. It is only when they become dogmatic, and assert propositions that
have no foundation in truth, as we sincerely believe, that we propose to break a lance at their
expense, and lay bare their fallacies. We claim nothing more for ourself, as a scientific writer,
than we are willing and ready to accord to them. Indeed, we would champion their right to be
heard sooner than we would our own, on the principle that it is our duty to be just to others
before we are generous to ourselves, or those of our own following. But our Agnostic friends
should remember that when they charge us with being "dogmatic in science," the charge should
be made good from a scientific stand-point, and not merely by the bandying of words.

When they tell us, for instance, that a toad has hibernated for a million years in any one
of the stratified rocks near the surface of the ground, we interpose the objection that none
of these batrachian forms can exist for a period of more than twelve months without air and
food. And yet they have been blasted out of cavities in the surface rocks of the earth, where
they have apparently lain for the period named by our scientific friends referred to. The fault
is not ours, but theirs, that they are in error. Had they determined to study the subject of
life, as we have done, from the Bible as well as from nature, they would have commenced at
these toad-producing rocks, and worked their way upward to the source of all life, and not
downward to the vanishing point--that where animal life ceases in the azoic rocks. The batrachians
are low down in the scale of nature, but they have a determinate period of existence, as do
all other forms of life. Try your experiments with them; see how long they will live without
light, air, and food. This you can do as well as ourself. Conform to all the conditions required--the
absolute exclusion of light, air, and food--and you will find that the toughest specimen experimented
with is a dead batrachian inside of one year.

This experimental test should settle the question of lengthened vitality between us. There
is no miracle about this matter at all, and science finds no stumbling-block in the way of
a complete explication of this riddle, if, in the light of nature, there be any such riddle.
We claim there is not, when we interpret nature in the light of nature's God. Let the earth,
or rather its silicious and other decaying rocks, bring forth these batrachian forms. The command
is imperative and not dependent upon any "seed" previously scattered or sown in the earth itself.

The father of the writer was Superintendent of the Green Mountain Turnpike Company, extending
from Bellows Falls to Rutland, Vt., from 1812 to 1832, and worked every rod of that road many
times over. From our earliest boyhood we accompanied him on these working trips, attended by
a large force of laboring men, and our attention was early called to the characteristics of
these toad-producing rocks. The rotting slates, shales, sandstones, shists, and rocks of various
kinds, were often ploughed up by the road-sides, and the dA(C)bris scraped into the centre
of the road-beds; the heaviest ploughs of that day being used to cut through these wayside
rocks, and often requiring as many as six or eight yoke of oxen to break the necessary furrow.
In many of these decaying slates, shists, sandstones etc., hundreds of young toads, many of
them not more than half an inch in length, were turned out at different seasons of the year,
showing that they were produced independently of any parent batrachian, there being no trace
of a mother toad in connection with them.

The parent toads bury themselves in the gardens and ploughed fields in the early autumn, and
if they survive the severity of the winter months, may propagate their kind the second year,
and probably for several years. But they require remarkably favorable conditions to continue
their life for any considerable number of years in open-field propagation, while under no circumstances
whatever can they make their way into these decaying rocks in order to propagate their species.
The reason why such fresh specimens appear under these circumstances, and in the cavities of
the rocks named, is conclusively that indicated by the prophet Isaiah, in the text quoted by
us; and when Professor Agassiz was forced to admit that trout must have made their appearance
in the fresh-water streams emptying into Lake Superior, instead of originating elsewhere, it
is to be regretted, for the sake of science, that he did not boldly enunciate the formula of
life as taught by the eagle-eyed prophet of the Bible, and not as proclaimed by the owl-eyed
professors of the London University College.

What is true of the trout in these Lake Superior streams, is true of them almost everywhere,
even right in the town of Cheshire, Conn., where we are inditing this preface, the 10th day
of October, 1883. We recently visited the Rev. David D. Bishop, in the northeastern portion
of this township, where that cultured gentleman was constructing an artificial trout-pond.
It was at a season of the greatest drought known for years in that portion of the town.

The point selected for this trout-pond was at the farthest eastern source of what is known
as "Honey Pot" brook in Cheshire, a famous one for trout in former years. Mr. Bishop proposed
to stock his pond with the best spawn he could procure. We remarked to him that there was no
need of that expense, as no stream ever produced better trout than the "Honey Pot"; and on
closely examining one of the six or eight cold springs developed in his enclosure, to his surprise,
not ours, we discovered several small trout, not more than six weeks old, as lively as they
could well be under the blasting operations then going on there; while his children were fishing
out from the rocks any number of young frogs (of the common Rana family), abounding wherever
rocks and water make their appearance in similar localities. This incident was all the more
remarkable for the reason that this small stream, or rather source of one, had been apparently
dry for months, as had been many of the best wells in the town.

Our well, in the western part of the town, had been dug some six feet into the solid rock and
an inexhaustible supply of the coldest water secured. We invited our neighbors, those living
on both sides of us, as well as at some distance from us, to come and draw all the water they
wanted, remarking that they might now and then draw up a small frog, originating therein, but
that, by fishing him out of the pail, he would make his way to the neighboring streams not
dry, and would flourish well enough as one of the Rana family. It was only to our more intelligent
neighbors (such as Mr. Bishop) who had read our work on "Life," that we stopped to explain
this phenomenal fact. And so of all life, wherever it appears, whether vegetable or animal.
Our experiments with mosquitoes are equally conclusive. Three years ago we took two barrels
of rain-water from our cistern, tightly covered; one barrel we left open to the warm sun and
air, and the other we covered with the finest mosquito netting. The barrel left open was soon
thronged with mosquitoes, constructing their little rafts of eggs and paving their way for
the swarms of young wigglers that in the course of a week or two made their appearance in the
open barrel in immense numbers. The process by which these wigglers hatch out into mosquitoes
is an interesting one, and will bear the closest study, as well as scientifically pay for watching
the operation. At the proper time they come to the surface of the water, undergo a palpable
modification in their structure, and beautifully burgeon forth into the tormenting little insects
that they are during the summer and autumn months in our Northern climate. The object of the
covered barrel was to ascertain whether we could reach the conditions favorable for the development
of this little pest of the Culex family, independently of the eggs of the insect itself. This
required some patience and not a little care. We knew that an egg dropped through the interstices
of the netting would sink to the bottom of the water and fail to germinate, as every scientist
understanding the process well knows. It must be floated on the water at first, or until it
reaches the point of development into a wiggler. The first step in the process of its life
is as cunningly devised as the second, and the second as the third, until the full-fledged
mosquito is reached.

All precautions must be taken against any mistake or error in the experiment named. But we
persevered and found nature responsive to our demands. Wigglers after awhile made their appearance
sparsely in the covered barrel, but the mosquitoes developed from them proved innocuous of
harm, as we kept the barrel covered, and they were soon drowned in the water, not having sufficient
area of flight to answer the conditions of their life. We might instance some remarkable discoveries
in the vegetable world, showing conclusively that plants and trees come without seed, and we
feel the more pride in this discovery because we have been assured by Prof. Othniel C. Marsh,
of Yale College, a gentleman highly distinguished in his specialties, that if we would show
that an oak tree came without an acorn, he would abandon Evolution and accept the exposition
given by us of the Bible genesis; but we have no special ambition to make so eminent a convert
from Herbert Spencer's ranks. He is a much younger man than ourself, but the great English
Evolutionist or Involutionist, whichever he may ultimately decide to call himself, is about
the writer's own age, and, for special reasons, he would prefer to win him to the vital side
of this question, that he may act with Professor Beale in the great controversy now waging
in England on this subject, and we will assure both Prof. Marsh, and his friend, Herbert Spencer,
that if either of them will show that an acorn comes without an oak tree, we will abandon any
position we have taken on this subject, and accept theirs, however absurdly (to our mind) it
may have been taken in the past. We know that "tall oaks from little acorns grow;" but that
is when man becomes the sower of seed, and knows the origin of each specific tree that is brought
forth. When we talk about the squirrel, or the birds becoming the "sowers of seeds," especially
the acorns, we are talking at random, and without any certain knowledge. This we say with all
due deference and respect to our learned Agnostic friends, and wish they would treat their
vitalistic brothers with the same becoming courtesy.

In a work which we have now in preparation for the press, to be entitled "Biodynamics; or,
The Laws of Life," we shall give this "seed question" a more exhaustive inquiry than we have
yet done.

Our proofs in regard to one form of life are equally applicable to any other plant, insect,
or animal, and there is no greater or less mystery in the life of a blade of grass than in
the cedar of Lebanon figuring so conspicuously in the historic page.

