denote a letter 'i' with a breve accent.]

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM

THE MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

PAPER 27

KINEMATICS OF MECHANISMS FROM THE TIME OF WATT

Eugene S. Ferguson

JAMES WATT, KINEMATIC SYNTHESIST      187

TO DRAW A STRAIGHT LINE               199

SCHOLARS AND MACHINES                 209

MECHANICIANS AND MECHANISMS           216

MECHANISMS IN AMERICA, 1875-1955      223

ADDITIONAL REFERENCES                 229

KINEMATICS OF MECHANISMS FROM THE TIME OF WATT

In an inventive tour de force that seldom, if ever, has been equalled for its brilliance and
far-reaching consequences, James Watt radically altered the steam engine not only by adding
a separate condenser but by creating a whole new family of linkages. His approach was largely
empirical, as we use the word today.

This study suggests that, despite the glamor of today's sophisticated methods of calculation,
a highly developed intuitive sense, reinforced by a knowledge of the past, is still indispensable
to the design of successful mechanisms.

THE AUTHOR: Eugene S. Ferguson, formerly curator of mechanical and civil engineering in the
United States National Museum, Smithsonian Institution, is now professor of mechanical engineering
at Iowa State University of Science and Technology.

In engineering schools today, a student is introduced to the kinematics of mechanisms by means
of a course of kinematic analysis, which is concerned with principles underlying the motions
occurring in mechanisms. These principles are demonstrated by a study of mechanisms already
in existence, such as the linkage of a retractable landing gear, computing mechanisms, mechanisms
used in an automobile, and the like. A systematic, if not rigorous, approach to the design
of gears and cams also is usually presented in such a course. Until recently, however, no serious
attempt was made to apply the principles developed in kinematic analysis to the more complex
problem of kinematic synthesis of linkages. By kinematic synthesis is meant the designing of
a linkage to produce a given series of motions for a particular purpose.

That a rational--numerical or geometrical--approach to kinematic synthesis is possible is a
relatively recent idea, not yet fully accepted; but it is this idea that is responsible for
the intense scholarly interest in the kinematics of mechanisms that has occurred in this country
within the last 10 years.

This scholarly activity has resulted in the rediscovery of many earlier works on the subject,
and nearly all the scholars now working in this field have acknowledged in one way or another
their debt to those who arrived on the scene at an earlier time than they. There have been
occasional reviews of the sequence and nature of developments, but the emphasis naturally has
been upon the recent past. It seems to me that there is something to be gained in looking beyond
our own generation, or even beyond the time of Franz Reuleaux (1829-1905), who is generally
credited with originating many of our modern concepts of mechanism analysis and design, and
to inquire into the ideas that made possible Reuleaux's contributions.

     Take to Kinematics. It will repay you. It is more fecund than
     geometry; it adds a fourth dimension to space.

     --Chebyshev to Sylvester, 1873

While no pretense of completeness is made, I have tried in this paper to trace the high points
in the development of kinematic analysis and synthesis, both in academic circles and in the
workshop, noting where possible the influence of one upon the other. If I have devoted more
space to particular people and episodes than is warranted by their contributions to the modern
treatment of the subject, it is because I have found that the history of kinematics of mechanisms,
like the history of any other branch of engineering, is more interesting and more plausible
if it is recognized that its evolutionary development is the result of human activity. This
history was wrought by people like us, no less intelligent and no less subject than we are
to environment, to a subjective way of looking at things, and to a heritage of ideas and beliefs.

I have selected the period from the time of Watt because modern mechanisms originated with
him, and I have emphasized the first century of the period because by 1885 many of the ideas
of modern kinematics of mechanisms were well developed. Linkages are discussed, to the virtual
exclusion of gears and cams, because much of the scholarly work in kinematic synthesis is presently
directed toward the design of linkages and because linkages provide a convenient thread for
a narrative that would have become unnecessarily complex if detailed treatment of gears and
cams had been included. I have brought the narrative down to the present by tracing kinematics
as taught in American engineering schools, closing with brief mention of the scholarly activity
in kinematics in this country since 1950. An annotated list of additional references is appended
as an encouragement to further work in the history of the subject.

James Watt, Kinematic Synthesist

James Watt (1736-1819), improver of the steam engine, was a highly gifted designer of mechanisms,
although his background included no formal study of mechanisms. Indeed, the study of mechanisms,
without immediate regard to the machines in which they were used, was not introduced until
after Watt's important work had been completed, while the actual design of mechanisms had been
going on for several centuries before the time of Watt.

Mechanisms that employed screws, cams, and gears were certainly in use by the beginning of
the Christian era. While I am not aware of unequivocal evidence of the existence of four-bar
linkages before the 16th century, their widespread application by that time indicates that
they probably originated much earlier. A tantalizing 13th-century sketch of an up-and-down
sawmill (fig. 1) suggests, but does not prove, that the four-bar linkage was then in use. Leonardo
da Vinci (1452-1519) delineated, if he did not build, a crank and slider mechanism, also for
a sawmill (fig. 2). In the 16th century may be found the conversion of rotary to reciprocating
motion (strictly speaking, an oscillation through a small arc of a large circle) and vice versa
by use of linkages of rigid members (figs. 3 and 4), although the conversion of rotary to reciprocating
motion was at that time more frequently accomplished by cams and intermittent gearing. Nevertheless,
the idea of linkages was a firmly established part of the repertory of the machine builder
before 1600. In fact one might have wondered in 1588, when Agostino Ramelli published his book
on machines,[1] whether linkages had not indeed reached their ultimate stage of development.
To illustrate my point, I have selected the plate of Ramelli that most appeals to me (fig.
5), although the book exhibits more than 200 other machines of comparable complexity and ingenuity.

[Footnote 1: Agostino Ramelli, Le Diverse et Artificiose Machine, Paris, 1588.]

There was a vast difference, both in conception and execution, between the linkages of Ramelli
and those of James Watt some 200 years later. Watt was responsible for initiating profound
changes in mechanical technology, but it should be recognized that the mechanic arts had, through
centuries of slow development, reached the stage where his genius could flourish. The knowledge
and ability to provide the materials and tools necessary for Watt's researches were at hand,
and through the optimism and patient encouragement of his partner, Matthew Boulton, they were
placed at his disposal.

Watt's genius was nowhere more evident than in his synthesis of linkages. An essential ingredient
in the success of Watt's linkages, however, was his partner's appreciation of the entirely
new order of refinement that they called for. Matthew Boulton, who had been a successful manufacturer
of buttons and metal novelties long before his partnership with Watt was formed, had recognized
at once the need for care in the building of Watt's steam engine. On February 7, 1769, he had
written Watt:[2] "I presumed that your engine would require money, very accurate workmanship
and extensive correspondence to make it turn out to the best advantage and that the best means
of keeping up the reputation and doing the invention justice would be to keep the executive
part of it out of the hands of the multitude of empirical engineers, who from ignorance, want
of experience and want of necessary convenience, would be very liable to produce bad and inaccurate
workmanship; all of which deficiencies would affect the reputation of the invention." Boulton
expected to build the engines in his shop "with as great a difference of accuracy as there
is between the blacksmith and the mathematical instrument maker." The Soho Works of Boulton
and Watt, in Birmingham, England, solved for Watt the problem of producing "in great" (that
is, in sizes large enough to be useful in steam engines) the mechanisms that he devised.[3]

[Footnote 2: Henry W. Dickinson, James Watt, Craftsman & Engineer, Cambridge, Cambridge University
Press, 1936, pp. 52-53.]

[Footnote 3: James P. Muirhead, The Origin and Progress of the Mechanical Inventions of James
Watt, London, 1854, vol. 1, pp. 56, 64. This work, in three volumes, contains letters, other
documents, and plates of patent specification drawings.]

The contributions of Boulton and Watt to practical mechanics "in great" cannot be overestimated.
There were in the 18th century instrument makers and makers of timekeepers who had produced
astonishingly accurate work, but such work comprised relatively small items, all being within
the scope of a bench lathe, hand tools, and superb handwork. The rapid advancement of machine
tools, which greatly expanded the scope of the machine-building art, began during the Boulton
and Watt partnership (1775-1800).

In April 1775 the skirmish at Concord between American colonists and British redcoats marked
the beginning of a war that was to determine for the future the course of political events
in the Western Hemisphere.

Another event of April 1775 occurring in Birmingham now appears to have been one that marked
the beginning of a new era of technological advance. It was near the end of this month that
Boulton, at the Soho Works, wrote to his partner and commented upon receiving the cast iron
steam engine cylinder that had been finished in John Wilkinson's boring mill:

     ... it seems tolerably true, but is an inch thick and weighs about
     10 cwt. Its diameter is about as much above 18 inches as the tin
     one was under, and therefore it is become necessary to add a brass
     hoop to the piston, which is made almost two inches broad.[4]

[Footnote 4: Ibid., vol. 2, p. 84.]

This cylinder indeed marked the turning point in the discouragingly long development of the
Watt steam engine, which for 10 years had occupied nearly all of Watt's thoughts and all the
time he could spare from the requirements of earning a living. Although there were many trials
ahead for the firm of Boulton and Watt in further developing and perfecting the steam engine,
the crucial problem of leakage of steam past the piston in the cylinder had now been solved
by Wilkinson's new boring mill, which was the first large machine tool capable of boring a
cylinder both round and straight.

The boring mill is pertinent to the development of linkages "in great," being the first of
a new class of machine tools that over the next 50 or 60 years came to include nearly all of
the basic types of heavy chip-removing tools that are in use today. The development of tools
was accelerated by the inherent accuracy required of the linkages that were originated by Watt.
Once it had been demonstrated that a large and complex machine, such as the steam engine, could
be built accurately enough so that its operation would be relatively free of trouble, many
outstanding minds became engaged in the development of machines and tools. It is interesting,
however, to see how Watt and others grappled with the solutions of problems that resulted from
the advance of the steam engine.

During the 1770's the demand for continuous, dependable power applied to a rotating shaft was
becoming insistent, and much of Boulton's and Watt's effort was directed toward meeting this
demand. Mills of all kinds used water or horses to turn "wheel-work," but, while these sources
of power were adequate for small operations, the quantity of water available was often limited,
and the use of enormous horse-whims was frequently impracticable.

The only type of steam engine then in existence was the Newcomen beam engine, which had been
introduced in 1712 by Thomas Newcomen, also an Englishman. This type of engine was widely used,
mostly for pumping water out of mines but occasionally for pumping water into a reservoir to
supply a waterwheel. It was arranged with a vertical steam cylinder located beneath one end
of a large pivoted working beam and a vertical plunger-type pump beneath the other end. Heavy,
flat chains were secured to a sector at each end of the working beam and to the engine and
pump piston rods in such a way that the rods were always tangent to a circle whose center was
at the beam pivot. The weight of the reciprocating pump parts pulled the pump end of the beam
down; the atmosphere, acting on the open top of the piston in the steam cylinder, caused the
engine end of the beam to be pulled down when the steam beneath the piston was condensed. The
chains would of course transmit force from piston to beam only in tension.

It is now obvious that a connecting rod, a crank, and a sufficiently heavy flywheel might have
been used in a conventional Newcomen engine in order to supply power to a rotating shaft, but
contemporary evidence makes it clear that this solution was by no means obvious to Watt nor
to his contemporaries.

At the time of his first engine patent, in 1769, Watt had devised a "steam wheel," or rotary
engine, that used liquid mercury in the lower part of a toroidal chamber to provide a boundary
for steam spaces successively formed by flap gates within the chamber. The practical difficulties
of construction finally ruled out this solution to the problem of a rotating power source,
but not until after Boulton and Watt had spent considerable effort and money on it.[5]

[Footnote 5: Henry W. Dickinson and Rhys Jenkins, James Watt and the Steam Engine, Oxford,
Clarendon Press, 1927, pp. 146-148, pls. 14, 31. This work presents a full and knowledgeable
discussion, based on primary material, of the development of Watt's many contributions to mechanical
technology. It is ably summarized in Dickinson, op. cit. (footnote 2).]

In 1777 a speaker before the Royal Society in London observed that in order to obtain rotary
output from a reciprocating steam engine, a crank "naturally occurs in theory," but that in
fact the crank is impractical because of the irregular rate of going of the engine and its
variable length of stroke. He said that on the first variation of length of stroke the machine
would be "either broken to pieces, or turned back."[6] John Smeaton, in the front rank of English
steam engineers of his time, was asked in 1781 by His Majesty's Victualling-Office for his
opinion as to whether a steam-powered grain mill ought to be driven by a crank or by a waterwheel
supplied by a pump. Smeaton's conclusion was that the crank was quite unsuited to a machine
in which regularity of operation was a factor. "I apprehend," he wrote, "that no motion communicated
from the reciprocating beam of a fire engine can ever act perfectly equal and steady in producing
a circular motion, like the regular efflux of water in turning a waterwheel." He recommended,
incidentally, that a Boulton and Watt steam engine be used to pump water to supply the waterwheel.[7]
Smeaton had thought of a flywheel, but he reasoned that a flywheel large enough to smooth out
the halting, jerky operation of the steam engines that he had observed would be more of an
encumbrance than a pump, reservoir, and waterwheel.[8]

[Footnote 6: John Farey, A Treatise on the Steam Engine, London, 1827, pp. 408-409.]

[Footnote 7: Reports of the Late John Smeaton, F.R.S., London, 1812, vol. 2, pp. 378-380.]

[Footnote 8: Farey, op. cit. (footnote 6), p. 409.]

The simplicity of the eventual solution of the problem was not clear to Watt at this time.
He was not, as tradition has it, blocked merely by the existence of a patent for a simple crank
and thus forced to invent some other device as a substitute.

Matthew Wasbrough, of Bristol, the engineer commonly credited with the crank patent, made no
mention of a crank in his patent specification, but rather intended to make use of "racks with
teeth," or "one or more pullies, wheels, segments of wheels, to which are fastened rotchets
and clicks or palls...." He did, however, propose to "add a fly or flys, in order to render
the motion more regular and uniform." Unfortunately for us, he submitted no drawings with his
patent specification.[9]

[Footnote 9: British Patent 1213, March 10, 1779.]

James Pickard, of Birmingham, like Boulton, a buttonmaker, in 1780 patented a counterweighted
crank device (fig. 6) that was expected to remove the objection to a crank, which operated
with changing leverage and thus irregular power. In figure 6, the counterweighted wheel, revolving
twice for each revolution of the crank (A), would allow the counterweight to descend while
the crank passed the dead-center position and would be raised while the crank had maximum leverage.
No mention of a flywheel was made in this patent.[10]

[Footnote 10: British Patent 1263, August 23, 1780.]

Wasbrough, finding that his "rotchets and clicks" did not serve, actually used, in 1780, a
crank with a flywheel. Watt was aware of this, but he remained unconvinced of the superiority
of the crank over other devices and did not immediately appreciate the regulating ability of
a flywheel.[11] In April 1781 Watt wrote to Boulton, who was then out of town: "I know from
experiment that the other contrivance, which you saw me try, performs at least as well, and
has in fact many advantages over the crank."[12] The "other contrivance" probably was his swash
wheel which he built and which appeared on his next important patent specification (fig. 7a).
Also in this patent were four other devices, one of which was easily recognizable as a crank,
and two of which were eccentrics (fig. 7a, b). The fourth device was the well-known sun-and-planet
gearing (fig. 7e).[13] In spite of the similarity of the simple crank to the several variations
devised by Watt, this patent drew no fire from Wasbrough or Pickard, perhaps because no reasonable
person would contend that the crank itself was a patentable feature, or perhaps because the
similarity was not at that time so obvious. However, Watt steered clear of directly discernible
application of cranks because he preferred to avoid a suit that might overthrow his or other
patents. For example, if the Wasbrough and Pickard patents had been voided, they would have
become public property; and Watt feared that they might "get into the hands of men more ingenious,"
who would give Boulton and Watt more competition than Wasbrough and Pickard.[14]

[Footnote 11: Dickinson and Jenkins, op. cit. (footnote 5), pp. 150, 154.]

[Footnote 12: Ibid., p. 154.]

[Footnote 13: William Murdock, at this time a Boulton and Watt erector, may have suggested
this arrangement. Ibid., p. 56.]

[Footnote 14: Muirhead, op. cit. (footnote 3), vol. 3, note on p. 39.]

The sun-and-planet arrangement, with gears of equal size, was adopted by Watt for nearly all
the rotative engines that he built during the term of the "crank patents." This arrangement
had the advantage of turning the flywheel through two revolutions during a single cycle of
operation of the piston, thus requiring a flywheel only one-fourth the size of the flywheel
needed if a simple crank were used. The optional link (JK of fig. 7e) was used in the engines
as built.

From the first, the rotative engines were made double-acting--that is, work was done by steam
alternately in each end of the cylinder. The double-acting engine, unlike the single-acting
pumping engine, required a piston rod that would push as well as pull. It was in the solution
of this problem that Watt's originality and sure judgment were most clearly demonstrated.

A rack and sector arrangement (fig. 8) was used on some engines. The first one, according to
Watt, "has broke out several teeth of the rack, but works steady."[15] A little later he told
a correspondent that his double-acting engine "acts so powerfully that it has broken all its
tackling repeatedly. We have now tamed it, however."[16]

[Footnote 15: James Watt, March 31, 1783, quoted in Dickinson and Jenkins, op. cit. (footnote
5), p. 140.]

[Footnote 16: Watt to De Luc, April 26, 1783, quoted in Muirhead, op. cit. (footnote 3), vol.
2, p. 174.]

It was about a year later that the straight-line linkage[17] was thought out. "I have started
a new hare," Watt wrote to his partner. All four-bar straight-line linkages that have no sliding
pairs trace only an approximately straight line. The exact straight-line linkage in a single
plane was not known until 1864 (see p. 204). In 1853 Pierre-Frédéric Sarrus (1798-1861), a
French professor of mathematics at Strasbourg, devised an accordion-like spatial linkage that
traced a true straight line. Described but not illustrated (Académie des Sciences, Paris, Comptes
rendus, 1853, vol. 36, pp. 1036-1038, 1125), the mechanism was forgotten and twice reinvented;
finally, the original invention was rediscovered by an English writer in 1905. For chronology,
see Florian Cajori, A History of Mathematics, ed. 2, New York, 1919, p. 301.]

[Footnote 18: Muirhead, op. cit. (footnote 3), vol. One of the alternatives is a guided crosshead
(fig. 9, top right).

[Footnote 19: Ibid., p. 202.]

Brilliant as was the conception of this linkage, it was followed up by a synthesis that is
very little short of incredible. In order to make the linkage attached to the beam of his engines
more compact, Watt had plumbed his experience for ideas; his experience had yielded up the
work done much earlier on a drafting machine that made use of a pantograph.[20] Watt combined
his straight-line linkage with a pantograph, one link becoming a member of the pantograph.

[Footnote 20: "It has only one fault," he had told a friend on December 24, 1773, after describing
the drafting machine to him, "which is, that it will not do, because it describes conic sections
instead of straight lines." Ibid., p. 71.]

The length of each oscillating link of the straight-line linkage was thus reduced to one-fourth
instead of one-half the beam length, and the entire mechanism could be constructed so that
it would not extend beyond the end of the working beam. This arrangement soon came to be known
as Watt's "parallel motion" I have not discovered the origin of the term. Watt did not use
it in his patent specification, and I have not found it in his writings or elsewhere before
1808 (see footnote 22). The Cyclopaedia (Abraham Rees, ed., London, 1819, vol. 26) defined
parallel motion as "a term used among practical mechanics to denote the rectilinear motion
of a piston-rod, &c. in the direction of its length; and contrivances, by which such alternate
rectilinear motions are converted into continuous rotatory ones, or vice versa...." Robert
Willis in his Principles of Mechanism (London, 1841, p. 399) described parallel motion as "a
term somewhat awkwardly applied to a combination of jointed rods, the purpose of which is to
cause a point to describe a straight line...." A. B. Kempe in How to Draw a Straight Line (London,
1877, p. 49) wrote: "I have been more than once asked to get rid of the objectionable term
'parallel motion.' I do not know how it came to be employed, and it certainly does not express
what is intended. Introduced into England the following year, the Richards Indicator was an
immediate success, and many thousands were sold over the next 20 or 30 years.[23]

[Footnote 23: Charles T. Porter, Engineering Reminiscences, New York, 1908, pp. 58-59, 90.]

In considering the order of synthetic ability required to design the straight-line linkage
and to combine it with a pantograph, it should be kept in mind that this was the first one
of a long line of such mechanisms.[24] Once the idea was abroad, it was only to be expected
that many variations and alternative solutions should appear. One wonders, however, what direction
the subsequent work would have taken if Watt had not so clearly pointed the way.

[Footnote 24: At least one earlier straight-line linkage, an arrangement later ascribed to
Richard Roberts, had been depicted before Watt's patent (Pierre Patte, Mémoirs sur les objets
les plus importants de l'architecture, Paris, 1769, p. 229 and pl. 11). However, this linkage
(reproduced here in figure 18) had no detectable influence on Watt or on subsequent practice.]

In 1827 John Farey, in his exhaustive study of the steam engine, wrote perhaps the best contemporary
view of Watt's work. Farey as a young man had several times talked with the aging Watt, and
he had reflected upon the nature of the intellect that had caused Watt to be recognized as
a genius, even within his own lifetime. In attempting to explain Watt's genius, Farey set down
some observations that are pertinent not only to kinematic synthesis but to the currently fashionable
term "creativity."

In Farey's opinion Watt's inventive faculty was far superior to that of any of his contemporaries;
but his many and various ideas would have been of little use if he had not possessed a very
high order of judgment, that "faculty of distinguishing between ideas; decomposing compound
ideas into more simple elements; arranging them into classes, and comparing them together...."

Farey was of the opinion that while a mind like Watt's could produce brilliant new ideas, still
the "common stock of ideas which are current amongst communities and professions, will generally
prove to be of a better quality than the average of those new ideas, which can be produced
by any individual from the operation of his own mind, without assistance from others." Farey
concluded with the observation that "the most useful additions to that common stock, usually
proceed from the individuals who are well acquainted with the whole series."[25]

[Footnote 25: Farey, op. cit. (footnote 6), pp. 651, 652.]

To Draw a Straight Line

During most of the century after James Watt had produced his parallel motion, the problem of
devising a linkage, one point of which would describe a straight line, was one that tickled
the fancies of mathematicians, of ingenious mechanics, and of gentlemanly dabblers in ideas.
The quest for a straight-line mechanism more accurate than that of Watt far outlasted the pressing
practical need for such a device. Large metal planing machines were well known by 1830, and
by midcentury crossheads and crosshead guides were used on both sides of the Atlantic in engines
with and without working beams.

By 1819 John Farey had observed quite accurately that, in England at least, many other schemes
had been tried and found wanting and that "no methods have been found so good as the original
engine; and we accordingly find, that all the most established and experienced manufacturers
make engines which are not altered in any great feature from Mr. Watt's original engine...."[26]

[Footnote 26: In Rees, op. cit. (footnote 21), vol. 34 ("Steam Engine"). John Farey was the
writer of this article (see Farey, op. cit., p. vi).]

Two mechanisms for producing a straight line were introduced before the Boulton and Watt monopoly
ended in 1800. Perhaps the first was by Edmund Cartwright (1743-1823), who is said to have
had the original idea for a power loom. This geared device (fig. 12), was characterized patronizingly
by a contemporary American editor as possessing "as much merit as can possibly be attributed
to a gentleman engaged in the pursuit of mechanical studies for his own amusement."[27] Only
a few small engines were made under the patent.[28]

[Footnote 27: Emporium of Arts and Sciences, December 1813, new ser., vol. 2, no. 1, p. 81.]

[Footnote 28: Farey, op. cit. (footnote 6), p. 666.]

The properties of a hypocycloid were recognized by James White, an English engineer, in his
geared design which employed a pivot located on the pitch circle of a spur gear revolving inside
an internal gear. The diameter of the pitch circle of the spur gear was one-half that of the
internal gear, with the result that the pivot, to which the piston rod was connected, traced
out a diameter of the large pitch circle (fig. 13). White in 1801 received from Napoleon Bonaparte
a medal for this invention when it was exhibited at an industrial exposition in Paris.[29]
Some steam engines employing White's mechanism were built, but without conspicuous commercial
success. White himself rather agreed that while his invention was "allowed to possess curious
properties, and to be a pretty thing, opinions do not all concur in declaring it, essentially
and generally, a good thing."[30]

[Footnote 29: H. W. Dickinson, "James White and His 'New Century of Inventions,'" Transactions
of the Newcomen Society, 1949-1951, vol. 27, pp. 175-179.]

[Footnote 30: James White, A New Century of Inventions, Manchester, 1822, pp. 30-31, 338. A
hypocycloidal engine used in Stourbridge, England, is in the Henry Ford Museum.]

The first of the non-Watt four-bar linkages appeared shortly after 1800. The origin of the
grasshopper beam motion is somewhat obscure, although it came to be associated with the name
of Oliver Evans, the American pioneer in the employment of high-pressure steam. A similar idea,
employing an isosceles linkage, was patented in 1803 by William Freemantle, an English watchmaker
(fig. 14).[31] This is the linkage that was attributed much later to John Scott Russell (1808-1882),
the prominent naval architect.[32] An inconclusive hint that Evans had devised his straight-line
linkage by 1805 appeared in a plate illustrating his Abortion of the Young Steam Engineer's
Guide (Philadelphia, 1805), and it was certainly used on his Columbian engine (fig. 15), which
was built before 1813. The Freemantle linkage, in modified form, appeared in Rees's Cyclopaedia
of 1819 (fig. 16), but it is doubtful whether even this would have been readily recognized
as identical with the Evans linkage, because the connecting rod was at the opposite end of
the working beam from the piston rod, in accordance with established usage, while in the Evans
linkage the crank and connecting rod were at the same end of the beam. It is possible that
Evans got his idea from an earlier English periodical, but concrete evidence is lacking.

[Footnote 31: British Patent 2741, November 17, 1803.]

[Footnote 32: William J. M. Rankine, Manual of Machinery and Millwork, ed. 6, London, 1887,
p. 275.]

If the idea did in fact originate with Evans, it is strange that he did not mention it in his
patent claims, or in the descriptions that he published of his engines.[33] The practical advantage
of the Evans linkage, utilizing as it could a much lighter working beam than the Watt or Freemantle
engines, would not escape Oliver Evans, and he was not a man of excessive modesty where his
own inventions were concerned.

[Footnote 33: Greville and Dorothy Bathe, Oliver Evans, Philadelphia, 1935, pp. 88, 196, and
passim.]

Another four-bar straight-line linkage that became well known was attributed to Richard Roberts
of Manchester (1789-1864), who around 1820 had built one of the first metal planing machines,
which machines helped make the quest for straight-line linkages largely academic. I have not
discovered what occasioned the introduction of the Roberts linkage, but it dated from before
1841. Although Roberts patented many complex textile machines, an inspection of all of his
patent drawings has failed to provide proof that he was the inventor of the Roberts linkage.[34]
The fact that the same linkage is shown in an engraving of 1769 (fig. 18) further confuses
the issue.[35]

[Footnote 34: Robert Willis (op. cit. [Footnote 21] p. 411) credited Richard Roberts with the
linkage. Roberts' 15 British patent drawings exhibit complex applications of cams, levers,
guided rods, cords, and so forth, but no straight-line mechanism. In his patent no. 6258 of
April 13, 1832, for a steam engine and locomotive carriage, Roberts used Watt's "parallel motion"
on a beam driven by a vertical cylinder.]

[Footnote 35: This engraving appeared as plate 11 in Pierre Patte's 1769 work (op. cit. footnote
24). Patte stated that the machine depicted in his plate 11 was invented by M. de Voglie and
was actually used in 1756.]

The appearance in 1864 of Peaucellier's exact straight-line linkage went nearly unnoticed.
A decade later, when news of its invention crossed the Channel to England, this linkage excited
a flurry of interest, and variations of it occupied mathematical minds for several years. For
at least 10 years before and 20 years after the final solution of the problem, Professor Chebyshev,[36]
a noted mathematician of the University of St. Petersburg, was interested in the matter. Judging
by his published works and his reputation abroad, Chebyshev's interest amounted to an obsession.

[Footnote 36: This is the Library of Congress spelling]

Pafnutï[)i] L'vovich Chebyshev was born in 1821, near Moscow, and entered the University of
Moscow in 1837. In 1853, after visiting France and England and observing carefully the progress
of applied mechanics in those countries, he read his first paper on approximate straight-line
linkages, and over the next 30 years he attacked the problem with new vigor at least a dozen
times. He found that the two principal straight-line linkages then in use were Watt's and Evans'.
Chebyshev noted the departure of these linkages from a straight line and calculated the deviation
as of the fifth degree, or about 0.0008 inch per inch of beam length. He proposed a modification
of the Watt linkage to refine its accuracy but found that he would have to more than double
the length of the working beam. Chebyshev concluded ruefully that his modification would "present
great practical difficulties."[37]

[Footnote 37: Oeuvres de P. L. Tchebychef, 2 vols., St. Petersburg, 1899-1907, vol. 1, p. 538;
vol. 2, pp. 57, 85.]

At length an idea occurred to Chebyshev that would enable him to approach if not quite attain
a true straight line. If one mechanism was good, he reasoned, two would be better, et cetera,
ad infinitum. The idea was simply to combine, or compound, four-link approximate linkages,
arranging them in such a way that the errors would be successively reduced. Contemplating first
a combination of the Watt and Evans linkages (fig. 19), Chebyshev recognized that if point
D of the Watt linkage followed nearly a straight line, point A of the Evans linkage would depart
even less from a straight line. He calculated the deviation in this case as of the 11th degree.
He then replaced Watt's linkage by one that is usually called the Chebyshev straight-line mechanism
(fig. 20), with the result that precision was increased to the 13th degree.[38] The steam engine
that he displayed at the Vienna Exhibition in 1873 employed this linkage--the Chebyshev mechanism
compounded with the Evans, or approximate isosceles, linkage. An English visitor to the exhibition
commented that "the motion is of little or no practical use, for we can scarcely imagine circumstances
under which it would be more advantageous to use such a complicated system of levers, with
so many joints to be lubricated and so many pins to wear, than a solid guide of some kind;
but at the same time the arrangement is very ingenious and in this respect reflects great credit
on its designer."[39]

[Footnote 38: Ibid., vol. 2, pp. 93, 94.]

[Footnote 39: Engineering, October 3, 1873, vol. 16, p. 284.]

 L'vovich Chebyshev (1821-1894),
Russian mathematician active in analysis and synthesis of straight-line
mechanisms. From Ouvres de P. L. Tchebychef (St. Petersburg, 1907,
vol. 2, frontispiece).]

There is a persistent rumor that Professor Chebyshev sought to demonstrate the impossibility
of constructing any linkage, regardless of the number of links, that would generate a straight
line; but I have found only a dubious statement in the Grande Encyclopédie[40] of the late
19th century and a report of a conversation with the Russian by an Englishman, James Sylvester,
to the effect that Chebyshev had "succeeded in proving the nonexistence of a five-bar link-work
capable of producing a perfect parallel motion...."[41] Regardless of what tradition may have
to say about what Chebyshev said, it is of course well known that Captain Peaucellier was the
man who finally synthesized the exact straight-line mechanism that bears his name.

[Footnote 40: La Grande Encyclopédie, Paris, 1886 ("Peaucellier").]

[Footnote 41: James Sylvester, "Recent Discoveries in Mechanical Conversion of Motion," Notices
of the Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, 1873-1875, vol. 7, p. 181. The
fixed link was not counted by Sylvester; in modern parlance this would be a six-link mechanism.]

Charles-Nicolas Peaucellier, a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique and a captain in the French
corps of engineers, was 32 years old in 1864 when he wrote a short letter to the editor of
Nouvelles Annales de mathématiques (ser. 2, vol. 3, pp. 414-415) in Paris. He called attention
to what he termed "compound compasses," a class of linkages that included Watt's parallel motion,
the pantograph, and the polar planimeter. He proposed to design linkages to describe a straight
line, a circle of any radius no matter how large, and conic sections, and he indicated in his
letter that he had arrived at a solution.

This letter stirred no pens in reply, and during the next 10 years the problem merely led to
the filling of a few academic pages by Peaucellier and Amédée Mannheim (1831-1906), also a
graduate of Ecole Polytechnique, a professor of mathematics, and the designer of the Mannheim
slide rule. Finally, in 1873, Captain Peaucellier gave his solution to the readers of the Nouvelles
Annales. His reasoning, which has a distinct flavor of discovery by hindsight, was that since
a linkage generates a curve that can be expressed algebraically, it must follow that any algebraic
curve can be generated by a suitable linkage--it was only necessary to find the suitable linkage.
He then gave a neat geometric proof, suggested by Mannheim, for his straight-line "compound
compass."[42]

[Footnote 42: Charles-Nicholas Peaucellier, "Note sur une question de geométrie de compas,"
Nouvelles Annales de mathématiques, 1873, ser. 2, vol. 12, pp. 71-78. A sketch of Mannheim's
work is in Florian Cajori, A History of the Logarithmic Slide Rule, New York, about 1910, reprinted
in String Figures and Other Monographs, New York, Chelsea Publishing Company, 1960.]

On a Friday evening in January 1874 Albemarle Street in London was filled with carriages, each
maneuvering to unload its charge of gentlemen and their ladies at the door of the venerable
hall of the Royal Institution. Amidst a "mighty rustling of silks," the elegant crowd made
its way to the auditorium for one of the famous weekly lectures. The speaker on this occasion
was James Joseph Sylvester, a small intense man with an enormous head, sometime professor of
mathematics at the University of Virginia, in America, and more recently at the Royal Military
Academy in Woolwich. He spoke from the same rostrum that had been occupied by Davy, Faraday,
Tyndall, Maxwell, and many other notable scientists. Professor Sylvester's subject was "Recent
Discoveries in Mechanical Conversion of Motion."[43]

[Footnote 43: Sylvester, op. cit. (footnote 41), pp. 179-198. It appears from a comment in
this lecture that Sylvester was responsible for the word "linkage." According to Sylvester,
a linkage consists of an even number of links, a "link-work" of an odd number. Since the fixed
member was not considered as a link by Sylvester, this distinction became utterly confusing
when Reuleaux's work was published in 1876. Although "link" was used by Watt in a patent specification,
it is not probable that he ever used the term "link-work"--at any rate, my search for his use
of it has been fruitless. "Link work" is used by Willis (op. cit. footnote 21), but the term
most likely did not originate with him. I have not found the word "linkage" used earlier than
Sylvester.]

Remarking upon the popular appeal of most of the lectures, a contemporary observer noted that
while many listeners might prefer to hear Professor Tyndall expound on the acoustic opacity
of the atmosphere, "those of a higher and drier turn of mind experience ineffable delight when
Professor Sylvester holds forth on the conversion of circular into parallel motion."[44]

[Footnote 44: Bernard H. Becker, Scientific London, London, 1874, pp. 45, 50, 51.]

Sylvester's aim was to bring the Peaucellier linkage to the notice of the English-speaking
world, as it had been brought to his attention by Chebyshev--during a recent visit of the Russian
to England--and to give his listeners some insight into the vastness of the field that he saw
opened by the discovery of the French soldier.[45]

[Footnote 45: Sylvester, op. cit. (footnote 41), p. 183; Nature, November 13, 1873, vol. 9, p. 33.]

"The perfect parallel motion of Peaucellier looks so simple," he observed, "and moves so easily
that people who see it at work almost universally express astonishment that it waited so long
to be discovered." But that was not his reaction at all. The more one reflects upon the problem,
Sylvester continued, he "wonders the more that it was ever found out, and can see no reason
why it should have been discovered for a hundred years to come. Viewed a priori there was nothing
to lead up to it. It bears not the remotest analogy (except in the fact of a double centring)
to Watt's parallel motion or any of its progeny."[46]

[Footnote 46: Sylvester, op. cit. (footnote 41), p. 181.]

It must be pointed out, parenthetically at least, that James Watt had not only had to solve
the problem as best he could, but that he had no inkling, so far as experience was concerned,
that a solvable problem existed.

Sylvester interrupted his panegyric long enough to enumerate some of the practical results
of the Peaucellier linkage. He said that Mr. Penrose, the eminent architect and surveyor to
St. Paul's Cathedral, had "put up a house-pump worked by a negative Peaucellier cell, to the
great wonderment of the plumber employed, who could hardly believe his senses when he saw the
sling attached to the piston-rod moving in a true vertical line, instead of wobbling as usual
from side to side." Sylvester could see no reason "why the perfect parallel motion should not
be employed with equal advantage in the construction of ordinary water-closets." The linkage
was to be employed by "a gentleman of fortune" in a marine engine for his yacht, and there
was talk of using it to guide a piston rod "in certain machinery connected with some new apparatus
for the ventilation and filtration of the air of the Houses of Parliament." In due course,
Mr. Prim, "engineer to the Houses," was pleased to show his adaptation of the Peaucellier linkage
to his new blowing engines, which proved to be exceptionally quiet in their operation (fig.
25).[47] A bit on the ludicrous side, also, was Sylvester's 78-bar linkage that traced a straight
line along the line connecting the two fixed centers of the linkage.[48]

[Footnote 47: Ibid., pp. 182, 183, 188, 193.]

[Footnote 48: Kempe, op. cit. (footnote 21), p. 17.]

Before dismissing with a smile the quaint ideas of our Victorian forbears, however, it is well
to ask, 88 years later, whether some rather elaborate work reported recently on the synthesis
of straight-line mechanisms is more to the point, when the principal objective appears to be
the moving of an indicator on a "pleasing, expanded" (i.e., squashed flat) radio dial.[49]

[Footnote 49: Machine Design, December 1954, vol. 26, p. 210.]

But Professor Sylvester was more interested, really, in the mathematical possibilities of the
Peaucellier linkage, as no doubt our modern investigators are. Through a compounding of Peaucellier
mechanisms, he had already devised square-root and cube-root extractors, an angle trisector,
and a quadratic-binomial root extractor, and he could see no limits to the computing abilities
of linkages as yet undiscovered.[50]

[Footnote 50: Sylvester, op. cit. (footnote 41), p. 191.]

Sylvester recalled fondly, in a footnote to his lecture, his experience with a little mechanical
model of the Peaucellier linkage at an earlier dinner meeting of the Philosophical Club of
the Royal Society. The Peaucellier model had been greeted by the members with lively expressions
of admiration "when it was brought in with the dessert, to be seen by them after dinner, as
is the laudable custom among members of that eminent body in making known to each other the
latest scientific novelties." And Sylvester would never forget the reaction of his brilliant
friend Sir William Thomson (later Lord Kelvin) upon being handed the same model in the Athenaeum
Club. After Sir William had operated it for a time, Sylvester reached for the model, but he
was rebuffed by the exclamation "No! I have not had nearly enough of it--it is the most beautiful
thing I have ever seen in my life."[51]

[Footnote 51: Ibid., p. 183.]

The aftermath of Professor Sylvester's performance at the Royal Institution was considerable
excitement amongst a limited company of interested mathematicians. Many alternatives to the
Peaucellier straight-line linkage were suggested by several writers of papers for learned journals.[52]

[Footnote 52: For a summary of developments and references, see Kempe, op. cit. (footnote 21),
pp. 49-51. Two of Hart's six-link exact straight-line linkages referred to by Kempe are illustrated
in Henry M. Cundy and A. P. Rollett, Mathematical Models, Oxford, Oxford University Press,
1952, pp. 204-205. Peaucellier's linkage was of eight links.]

In the summer of 1876, after Sylvester had departed from England to take up his post as professor
of mathematics in the new Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Alfred Bray Kempe, a young
barrister who pursued mathematics as a hobby, delivered at London's South Kensington Museum
a lecture with the provocative title "How to Draw a Straight Line."[53]

[Footnote 53: Kempe, op. cit. (footnote 21), p. 26.]

In order to justify the Peaucellier linkage, Kempe belabored the point that a perfect circle
could be generated by means of a pivoted bar and a pencil, while the generation of a straight
line was most difficult if not impossible until Captain Peaucellier came along. A straight
line could be drawn along a straight edge; but how was one to determine whether the straight
edge was straight? He did not weaken his argument by suggesting the obvious possibility of
using a piece of string. Kempe had collaborated with Sylvester in pursuing the latter's first
thoughts on the subject, and one result, that to my mind exemplifies the general direction
of their thinking, was the Sylvester-Kempe "parallel motion" (fig. 26).

Enthusiastic as Kempe was, however, he injected an apologetic note in his lecture. "That these
results are valuable cannot I think be doubted," he said, "though it may well be that their
great beauty has led some to attribute to them an importance which they do not really possess...."
He went on to say that 50 years earlier, before the great improvements in the production of
true plane surfaces, the straight-line mechanisms would have been more important than in 1876,
but he added that "linkages have not at present, I think, been sufficiently put before the
mechanician to enable us to say what value should really be set upon them."[54]

[Footnote 54: Ibid., pp. 6-7. I have not pursued the matter of cognate linkages (the Watt and
Evans linkages are cognates) because the Roberts-Chebyshev theorem escaped my earlier search,
as it had apparently escaped most others until 1958. See R. S. Hartenberg and J. Denavit, "The
Fecund Four-Bar," Transactions of the Fifth Conference on Mechanisms, Cleveland, Penton Publishing
Company, 1958, pp. 194-206, reprinted in Machine Design, April 16, 1959, vol. 31, pp. 149-152.
See also A. E. R. de Jonge, "The Correlation of Hinged Four-Bar Straight-Line Motion Devices
by Means of the Roberts Theorem and a New Proof of the Latter," Annals of the New York Academy
of Sciences, March 18, 1960, vol. 84, art. 3, pp. 75-145 (published separately).]

It was during this same summer of 1876, at the Loan Exhibition of Scientific Apparatus in the
South Kensington Museum, that the work of Franz Reuleaux, which was to have an important and
lasting influence on kinematics everywhere, was first introduced to English engineers. Some
300 beautifully constructed teaching aids, known as the Berlin kinematic models, were loaned
to the exhibition by the Royal Industrial School in Berlin, of which Reuleaux was the director.
These models were used by Prof. Alexander B. W. Kennedy of University College, London, to help
explain Reuleaux's new and revolutionary theory of machines.[55]

[Footnote 55: Alexander B. W. Kennedy, "The Berlin Kinematic Models," Engineering, September
15, 1876, vol. 22, pp. 239-240.]

Scholars and Machines

When, in 1829, André-Marie Ampère (1775-1836) was called upon to prepare a course in theoretical
and experimental physics for the Collège de France, he first set about determining the limits
of the field of physics. This exercise suggested to his wide-ranging intellect not only the
definition of physics but the classification of all human knowledge. He prepared his scheme
of classification, tried it out on his physics students, found it incomplete, returned to his
study, and produced finally a two-volume work wherein the province of kinematics was first
marked out for all to see and consider.[56] Only a few lines could be devoted to so specialized
a branch as kinematics, but Ampère managed to capture the central idea of the subject.

[Footnote 56: André-Marie Ampère, Essai sur la philosophie des sciences, une exposition analytique
d'une classification naturelle de toutes les connaissances humaines, 2 vols., Paris, 1838 (for
origin of the project, see vol. 1, pp. v, xv).]

Cinématique (from the Greek word for movement) was, according to Ampère, the science "in which
movements are considered in themselves [independent of the forces which produce them], as we
observe them in solid bodies all about us, and especially in the assemblages called machines."[57]
Kinematics, as the study soon came to be known in English,[58] was one of the two branches
of elementary mechanics, the other being statics.

[Footnote 57: Ibid., vol. 1, pp. 51-52.]

[Footnote 58: Willis (op. cit. footnote 21) adopted the word "kinematics," and this Anglicization
subsequently became the standard term for this branch of mechanics.]

In his definition of kinematics, Ampère stated what the faculty of mathematics at the Ecole
Polytechnique, in Paris, had been groping toward since the school's opening some 40 years earlier.
The study of mechanisms as an intellectual discipline most certainly had its origin on the
left bank of the Seine, in this school spawned, as suggested by one French historian,[59] by
the great Encyclopédie of Diderot and d'Alembert.

[Footnote 59: G. Pinet, Histoire de l'Ecole Polytechnique, Paris, 1887, pp. viii-ix. In their
forthcoming book on kinematic synthesis, R. S. Hartenberg and J. Denavit will trace the germinal
ideas of Jacob Leupold and Leonhard Euler of the 18th century.]

Because the Ecole Polytechnique had such a far-reaching influence upon the point of view from
which mechanisms were contemplated by scholars for nearly a century after the time of Watt,
and by compilers of dictionaries of mechanical movements for an even longer time, it is well
to look for a moment at the early work that was done there. If one is interested in origins,
it might be profitable for him to investigate the military school in the ancient town of Mézières,
about 150 miles northeast of Paris. It was here that Lazare Carnot, one of the principal founders
of the Ecole Polytechnique, in 1783 published his essay on machines,[60] which was concerned,
among other things, with showing the impossibility of "perpetual motion"; and it was from Mézières
that Gaspard Monge and Jean Hachette[61] came to Paris to work out the system of mechanism
classification that has come to be associated with the names of Lanz and Bétancourt.

[Footnote 60: Lazare N. M. Carnot, Essai sur les machines en général, Mézières, 1783 (later
published as Principes fondamentaux de l'equilibre et du mouvement, Paris, 1803).]

[Footnote 61: Biographical notices of Monge and Hachette appear in Encyclopaedia Britannica,
ed. 11. See also L'Ecole Polytechnique, Livre du Centenaire, Paris, 1895, vol. 1, p. 11ff.]

Gaspard Monge (1746-1818), who while a draftsman at Mézières originated the methods of descriptive
geometry, came to the Ecole Polytechnique as professor of mathematics upon its founding in
1794, the second year of the French Republic. According to Jean Nicolas Pierre Hachette (1769-1834),
who was junior to Monge in the department of descriptive geometry, Monge planned to give a
two-months' course devoted to the elements of machines. Having barely gotten his department
under way, however, Monge became involved in Napoleon's ambitious scientific mission to Egypt
and, taking leave of his family and his students, embarked for the distant shores.

"Being left in charge," wrote Hachette, "I prepared the course of which Monge had given only
the first idea, and I pursued the study of machines in order to analyze and classify them,
and to relate geometrical and mechanical principles to their construction." Changes of curriculum
delayed introduction of the course until 1806, and not until 1811 was his textbook ready, but
the outline of his ideas was presented to his classes in chart form (fig. 28). This chart was
the first of the widely popular synoptical tables of mechanical movements.[62]

[Footnote 62: Jean N. P. Hachette, Traité élémentaire des machines, Paris, 1811, p. v.]

Hachette classified all mechanisms by considering the conversion of one motion into another.
His elementary motions were continuous circular, alternating circular, continuous rectilinear,
and alternating rectilinear. Combining one motion with another--for example, a treadle and
crank converted alternating circular to continuous circular motion--he devised a system that
supplied a frame of reference for the study of mechanisms. In the U.S. Military Academy at
West Point, Hachette's treatise, in the original French, was used as a textbook in 1824, and
perhaps earlier.[63]

[Footnote 63: This work was among the books sent back by Sylvanus Thayer when he visited France
in 1816 to observe the education of the French army cadets. Thayer's visit resulted in his
adopting the philosophy of the Ecole Polytechnique in his reorganization of the U.S. Military
Academy and, incidentally, in his inclusion of Hachette's course in the Academy's curriculum
(U.S. Congress, American State Papers, Washington, 1832-1861, Class v, Military Affairs, vol.
2, p. 661: Sidney Forman, West Point, New York, 1950, pp. 36-60). There is a collection of
miscellaneous papers (indexed under Sylvanus Thayer and William McRee, U.S. National Archives,
RG 77, Office, Chief of Engineers, Boxes 1 and 6) pertaining to the U.S. Military Academy of
this period, but I found no mention of kinematics in this collection.]

Lanz and Bétancourt, scholars from Spain at the Ecole Polytechnique, plugged some of the gaps
in Hachette's system by adding continuous and alternating curvilinear motion, which doubled
the number of combinations to be treated, but the advance of their work over that of Hachette
was one of degree rather than of kind.[64]

[Footnote 64: Phillipe Louis Lanz and Augustin de Bétancourt, Essai sur la composition des
machines, Paris, 1808. Hachette's chart and an outline of his elementary course on machines
is bound with the Princeton University Library copy of the Lanz and Bétancourt work. This copy
probably represents the first textbook of kinematics. Bétancourt was born in 1760 in Teneriffe,
attended the military school in Madrid, and became inspector-general of Spanish roads and canals.
He was in England before 1789, learning how to build Watt engines, and he introduced the engines
to Paris in 1790 (see Farey, op. cit., p. 655). He entered Russian service in 1808 and died
in St. Petersburg in 1826 J. C. Poggendorff, Biographisches-literarisches Handwörterbuch für
Mathematik ..., Leipzig, 1863, vol. 1.]

Giuseppe Antonio Borgnis, an Italian "engineer and member of many academies" and professor
of mechanics at the University of Pavia in Italy, in his monumental, nine-volume Traité complet
de méchanique appliquée aux arts, caused a bifurcation of the structure built upon Hachette's
foundation of classification when he introduced six orders of machine elements and subdivided
these into classes and species. His six orders were récepteurs (receivers of motion from the
prime mover), communicateurs, modificateurs (modifiers of velocity), supports (e.g., bearings),
regulateurs (e.g., governors), and operateurs, which produced the final effect.[65]

[Footnote 65: Giuseppe Antonio Borgnis, Théorie de la mécanique usuelle in Traité complet de
mécanique appliquée aux arts, Paris, 1818, vol. 1, pp. xiv-xvi.]

The brilliant Gaspard-Gustave de Coriolis (1792-1843)--remembered mainly for a paper of a dozen
pages explaining the nature of the acceleration that bears his name[66]--was another graduate
of the Ecole Polytechnique who wrote on the subject of machines. His book,[67] published in
1829, was provoked by his recognition that the designer of machines needed more knowledge than
his undergraduate work at the Ecole Polytechnique was likely to give him. Although he embraced
a part of Borgnis' approach, adopting récepteurs, communicateurs, and operateurs, Coriolis
indicated by the title of his book that he was more concerned with forces than with relative
displacements. However, the attractively simple three-element scheme of Coriolis became well
fixed in French thinking.[68]

[Footnote 66: Gaspard-Gustave de Coriolis, "Memoire sur les equations du mouvement relatif
des systèmes de corps," Journal de l'Ecole Polytechnique, 1835, vol. 15, pp. 142-154.]

[Footnote 67: Gaspard-Gustave de Coriolis, De Calcul de l'effet des machines, Paris, 1829.
In this book Coriolis proposed the now generally accepted equation, work = force × distance
(pp. iii, 2).]

[Footnote 68: The renowned Jean Victor Poncelet lent weight to this scheme. (See Franz Reuleaux,
Theoretische Kinematik: Grundzüge einer Theorie des Maschinenwesens, Braunschweig, 1875, translated
by Alexander B. W. Kennedy as The Kinematics of Machinery: Outlines of a Theory of Machines,
London, 1876, pp. 11, 487. I have used the Kennedy translation in the Reuleaux references throughout
the present work.)]

Michel Chasles (1793-1880), another graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique, contributed some incisive
ideas in his papers on instant centers[69] published during the 1830's, but their tremendous
importance in kinematic analysis was not recognized until much later.

[Footnote 69: The instant center was probably first recognized by Jean Bernoulli (1667-1748)
in his "De Centro Spontaneo Rotationis" (Johannis Bernoulli ... Opera Omnia ..., Lausanne,
1742, vol. 4, p. 265ff.).]

Acting upon Ampère's clear exposition of the province of kinematics and excluding, as Ampère
had done, the consideration of forces, an Englishman, Robert Willis, made the next giant stride
forward in the analysis of mechanisms. Willis was 37 years old in 1837 when he was appointed
professor of natural and experimental philosophy at Cambridge. In the same year Professor Willis--a
man of prodigious energy and industry and an authority on archeology and architectural history
as well as mechanisms--read his important paper "On the Teeth of Wheels" before the Institution
of Civil Engineers[70] and commenced at Cambridge his lectures on kinematics of mechanisms
that culminated in his 1841 book Principles of Mechanism.[71]

[Footnote 70: Robert Willis, "On the Teeth of Wheels," Transactions of the Institution of Civil
Engineers of London, 1838, vol. 2, pp. 89-112.]

[Footnote 71: Willis, op. cit. (footnote 21). Through the kindness of its owner (Mr. Warren
G. Ogden of North Andover, Massachusetts), I have had access to Willis' own copy of his 1841
edition of Principles of Mechanism. The book is interleaved, and it contains notes made by
Willis from time to time until at least 1870, when the second edition was issued. Corrections,
emendations, notations of some of his sources (for example, the De Voglie linkage mentioned
in footnote 35 above), notes to himself to "examine the general case" and "examine the modern
forms" of straight-line devices are interspersed with references to authors that had borrowed
from his work without acknowledgment. Of one author Willis writes an indignant "He ignores
my work."]

It seemed clear to Willis that the problem of devising a mechanism for a given purpose ought
to be attacked systematically, perhaps mathematically, in order to determine "all the forms
and arrangements that are applicable to the desired purpose," from which the designer might
select the simplest or most suitable combination. "At present," he wrote, "questions of this
kind can only be solved by that species of intuition which long familiarity with a subject
usually confers upon experienced persons, but which they are totally unable to communicate
to others."

In analyzing the process by which a machine was designed, Willis observed: "When the mind of
a mechanician is occupied with the contrivance of a machine, he must wait until, in the midst
of his meditations, some happy combination presents itself to his mind which may answer his
purpose." He ventured the opinion that at this stage of the design process "the motions of
the machine are the principal subject of contemplation, rather than the forces applied to it,
or the work it has to do." Therefore he was prepared to adopt without reservation Ampère's
view of kinematics, and, if possible, to make the science useful to engineers by stating principles
that could be applied without having to fit the problem at hand into the framework of the systems
of classification and description that had gone before. He appraised the "celebrated system"
of Lanz and Bétancourt as "a merely popular arrangement, notwithstanding the apparently scientific
simplicity of the scheme." He rejected this scheme because "no attempt is made to subject the
motions to calculation, or to reduce these laws to general formulas, for which indeed the system
is totally unfitted."

Borgnis had done a better job, Willis thought, in actually describing machinery, with his "orders"
based upon the functions of machine elements or mechanisms within the machine, but again there
was no means suggested by which the kinematics of mechanisms could be systematically investigated.

Although Willis commenced his treatise with yet another "synoptical table of the elementary
combinations of pure mechanism," his view shifted quickly from description to analysis. He
was consistent in his pursuit of analytical methods for "pure mechanism," eschewing any excursions
into the realm of forces and absolute velocities. He grasped the important concept of relative
displacements of machine elements, and based his treatment upon "the proportions and relations
between the velocities and directions of the pieces, and not upon their actual and separate
motions."[72]

[Footnote 72: Ibid., pp. iv, x-xii, xxi, 15.]

That he did not succeed in developing the "formulas" that would enable the student to determine
"all the forms and arrangements that are applicable to the desired purpose"--that he did not
present a rational approach to synthesis--is not to be wondered at. Well over a century later
we still are nibbling at the fringes of the problem. Willis did, nonetheless, give the thoughtful
reader a glimpse of the most powerful tool for kinematic synthesis that has yet been devised;
namely, kinematic analysis, in which the argument is confined to the relative displacements
of points on links of a mechanism, and through which the designer may grasp the nature of the
means at his disposal for the solution of any particular problem.

As remarked by Reuleaux a generation later, there was much in Professor Willis's book that
was wrong, but it was an original, thoughtful work that departed in spirit if not always in
method from its predecessors. Principles of Mechanism was a prominent landmark along the road
to a rational discipline of machine-kinematics.

A phenomenal engineer of the 19th century was the Scottish professor of civil engineering at
the University of Glasgow, William John MacQuorn Rankine. Although he was at the University
for only 17 years--he died at the age of 52, in 1872--he turned out during that time four thick
manuals on such diverse subjects as civil engineering, ship-building, thermodynamics, and machinery
and mill-work, in addition to literally hundreds of papers, articles, and notes for scientific
journals and the technical press. Endowed with apparently boundless energy, he found time from
his studies to command a battalion of rifle volunteers and to compose and sing comic and patriotic
songs. His manuals, often used as textbooks, were widely circulated and went through many editions.
Rankine's work had a profound effect upon the practice of engineering by setting out principles
in a form that could be grasped by people who were dismayed by the treatment usually found
in the learned journals.

When Rankine's book titled A Manual of Machinery and Millwork was published in 1869 it was
accurately characterized by a reviewer as "dealing with the principles of machinery and millworks,
and as such it is entirely distinct from [other works on the same subject] which treat more
of the practical applications of such principles than of the principles themselves."[73]

[Footnote 73: Engineering, London, August 13, 1869, vol. 8, p. 111.]

Rankine borrowed what appeared useful from Willis' Principles of Mechanism and from other sources.
His treatment of kinematics was not as closely reasoned as the later treatises of Reuleaux
and Kennedy, which will be considered below. Rankine did, however, for the first time show
the utility of instant centers in velocity analysis, although he made use only of the instant
centers involving the fixed link of a linkage. Like others before him, he considered the fixed
link of a mechanism as something quite different from the movable links, and he did not perceive
the possibilities opened up by determining the instant center of two movable links.

Many other books dealing with mechanisms were published during the middle third of the century,
but none of them had a discernible influence upon the advance of kinematical ideas.[74] The
center of inquiry had by the 1860's shifted from France to Germany. Only by scattered individuals
in England, Italy, and France was there any impatience with the well-established, general understanding
of the machine-building art.

[Footnote 74: Several such books are referred to by Reuleaux, op. cit. (footnote 68), pp. 12-16.]

In Germany, on the other hand, there was a surge of industrial activity that attracted some
very able men to the problems of how machines ought to be built. Among the first of these was
Ferdinand Redtenbacher (1809-1863), professor of mechanical engineering in the polytechnic
school in Karlsruhe, not far from Heidelberg. Redtenbacher, although he despaired of the possibility
of finding a "true system on which to base the study of mechanisms," was nevertheless a factor
in the development of such a system. He had young Franz Reuleaux in his classes for two years,
from 1850. During that time the older man's commanding presence, his ability as a lecturer,
and his infectious impatience with the existing order influenced Reuleaux to follow the scholar's
trail that led him to eminence as an authority of the first rank.[75]

[Footnote 75: See Carl Weihe, "Franz Reuleaux und die Grundlagen seiner Kinematik," Deutsches
Museum, Munich, Abhandlung und Berichte, 1942, p. 2; Friedrich Klemm, Technik: Eine Geschichte
ihrer Probleme, Freiburg and Munich, Verlag Karl Alber, 1954, translated by Dorothea W. Singer
as A History of Western Technology, New York, Charles Scribner's Sons, 1959, p. 317.]

Before he was 25 years old Franz Reuleaux published, in collaboration with a classmate, a textbook
whose translated title would be Constructive Lessons for the Machine Shop.[76] His several
years in the workshop, before and after coming under Redtenbacher's influence, gave his works
a practical flavor, simple and direct. According to one observer, Reuleaux's book exhibited
"a recognition of the claims of practice such as Englishmen do not generally associate with
the writings of a German scientific professor."[77]

[Footnote 76: See Weihe, op. cit. (footnote 75), p. 3; Hans Zopke, "Professor Franz Reuleaux,"
Cassier's Magazine, December 1896, vol. 11, pp. 133-139; Transactions of the American Society
of Mechanical Engineers, 1904-1905, vol. 26, pp. 813-817.]

[Footnote 77: Engineering, London, September 8, 1876, vol. 22, p. 197.]

Reuleaux's original ideas on kinematics, which are responsible for the way in which we look
at mechanisms today, were sufficiently formed in 1864 for him to lecture upon them.[78] Starting
in 1871, he published his findings serially in the publication of the Verein zur Beförderung
des Gewerbefleisses in Preussen (Society for the Advancement of Industry in Prussia), of which
he was editor. In 1875 these articles were brought together in the book that established his
fame--Theoretische Kinematik....[79]

[Footnote 78: A. E. Richard de Jonge, "What is Wrong with Kinematics and Mechanisms?" Mechanical
Engineering, April 1942, vol. 64, pp. 273-278 (comments on this paper are in Mechanical Engineering,
October 1942, vol. 64, pp. 744-751); Zopke, op. cit. (footnote 76), p. 135.]

[Footnote 79: Reuleaux, op. cit. (footnote 68). This was not the last of Reuleaux's books.
His trilogy on kinematics and machine design is discussed by De Jonge, op. cit. (footnote 78).]

In the introduction of this book, Reuleaux wrote:

     In the development of every exact science, its substance having
     grown sufficiently to make generalization possible, there is a time
     when a series of changes bring it into clearness. This time has
     most certainly arrived for the science of kinematics. The number of
     mechanisms has grown almost out of measure, and the number of ways
     in which they are applied no less. It has become absolutely
     impossible still to hold the thread which can lead in any way
     through this labyrinth by the existing methods.[80]

[Footnote 80: Reuleaux, op. cit. (footnote 68), p. 23.]

Reuleaux's confidence that it would be his own work that would bring order out of confusion
was well founded. His book had already been translated into Italian and was being translated
into French when, only a year after its publication, it was presented by Prof. Alexander B.
W. Kennedy in English translation.[81]

[Footnote 81: Ibid., p. iii.]

The book was enthusiastically reviewed by the weekly London journal Engineering,[82] and it
was given lengthy notice by the rival journal, The Engineer. The editor of The Engineer thought
that the mechanician would find in it many new ideas, that he would be "taught to detect hitherto
hidden resemblances, and that he must part--reluctantly, perhaps--with many of his old notions."
"But," added the editor with considerable justice, "that he [the mechanician] would suddenly
recognize in Professor Reuleaux's 'kinematic notation,' 'analysis,' and 'synthesis,' the long-felt
want of his professional existence we do not for a moment believe."[83] Indeed, the fresh and
sharp ideas of Reuleaux were somewhat clouded by a long (600-page) presentation; and his kinematic
notation, which required another attempt at classification, did not simplify the presentation
of radically new ideas.[84]

[Footnote 82: Engineering, loc. cit. (footnote 77).]

[Footnote 83: The Engineer, London, March 30 and April 13, 1877, vol. 43, pp. 211-212, 247-248.]

[Footnote 84: It is perhaps significant that the first paper of the First Conference on Mechanisms
at Purdue University was Allen S. Hall's "Mechanisms and Their Classification," which appeared
in Machine Design, December 1953, vol. 25, pp. 174-180. The place of classification in kinematic
synthesis is suggested in Ferdinand Freudenstein's "Trends in Kinematics of Mechanisms," Applied
Mechanics Reviews, September 1959, vol. 12, pp. 587-590.]

Nevertheless, no earlier author had seen the problem of kinematic analysis so clearly or had
introduced so much that was fresh, new, and of lasting value.

Reuleaux was first to state the concept of the pair; by his concept of the expansion of pairs
he was able to show similarities in mechanisms that had no apparent relation. He was first
to recognize that the fixed link of a mechanism was kinematically the same as the movable links.
This led him to the important notion of inversion of linkages, fixing successively the various
links and thus changing the function of the mechanism. He devoted 40 pages to showing, with
obvious delight, the kinematic identity of one design after another of rotary steam engines,
demolishing for all time the fond hopes of ingenious but ill-informed inventors who think that
improvements and advances in mechanism design consist in contortion and complexity.

The chapter on synthesis was likewise fresh, but it consisted of a discussion, not a system;
and Reuleaux stressed the idea that I have mentioned above in connection with Willis' book,
that synthesis will be successful in proportion to the designer's understanding and appreciation
of analysis. Reuleaux tried to put the designer on the right track by showing him clearly "the
essential simplicity of the means with which we have to work" and by demonstrating to him "that
the many things which have to be done can be done with but few means, and that the principles
underlying them all lie clearly before us."[85]

[Footnote 85: Reuleaux, op. cit. (footnote 68), p. 582.]

It remained for Sir Alexander Blackie William Kennedy (1847-1928) and Robert Henry Smith (1852-1916)
to add to Reuleaux's work the elements that would give kinematic analysis essentially its modern
shape.

Kennedy, the translator of Reuleaux's book, became professor of engineering at the University
College in London in 1874, and eventually served as president both of the Institution of Mechanical
Engineers and of the Institution of Civil Engineers. Smith, who had taught in the Imperial
University of Japan, was professor of engineering at Mason College, now a part of Birmingham
University, in England.

While Reuleaux had used instant centers almost exclusively for the construction of centrodes
(paths of successive positions of an instant center), Professor Kennedy recognized that instant
centers might be used in velocity analysis. His book, Mechanics of Machinery, was published
in 1886 ("partly through pressure of work and partly through ill-health, this book appears
only now"). In it he developed the law of three centers, now known as Kennedy's theorem. He
noted that his law of three centers "was first given, I believe, by Aronhold, although its
previous publication was unknown to me until some years after I had given it in my lectures."[86]
In fact, the law had been published by Siegfried Heinrich Aronhold (1819-1884) in his "Outline
of Kinematic Geometry," which appeared in 1872 alongside Reuleaux's series in the journal that
Reuleaux edited. Apparently Reuleaux did not perceive its particular significance at that time.[87]

[Footnote 86: Alexander B. W. Kennedy, The Mechanics of Machinery, ed. 3, London, 1898, pp.
vii, x.]

[Footnote 87: Siegfried Heinrich Aronhold, "Outline of Kinematic Geometry," Verein zur Beförderung
des Gewerbefleisses in Preussen, 1872, vol. 51, pp. 129-155. Kennedy's theorem is on pp. 137-138.]

Kennedy, after locating instant centers, determined velocities by calculation and accelerations
by graphical differentiation of velocities, and he noted in his preface that he had been unable,
for a variety of reasons, to make use in his book of Smith's recent work. Professor Kennedy
at least was aware of Smith's surprisingly advanced ideas, which seem to have been generally
ignored by Americans and Englishmen alike.

Professor Smith, in a paper before the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1885, stated clearly the
ideas and methods for construction of velocity and acceleration diagrams of linkages.[88] For
the first time, velocity and acceleration "images" of links (fig. 33) were presented. It is
unfortunate that Smith's ideas were permitted to languish for so long a time.

[Footnote 88: Robert H. Smith, "A New Graphic Analysis of the Kinematics of Mechanisms," Transactions
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 1882-1885, vol. 32, pp. 507-517, and pl. 82. Smith used
this paper as the basis for a chapter in his Graphics or the Art of Calculating by Drawing
Lines, London, 1889, pp. 144-162. In a footnote of his paper, Smith credited Fleeming Jenkin
(1833-1885) with suggesting the term "image." After discarding as "practically useless" Kennedy's
graphical differentiation, Smith complained that he had "failed to find any practical use"
for Reuleaux's "method of centroids, more properly called axoids." Such statements were not
calculated to encourage Kennedy and Reuleaux to advertise Smith's fame; however, I found no
indication that either one took offense at the criticism. Smith's velocity and acceleration
diagrams were included (apparently embalmed, so far as American engineers were concerned) in
Encyclopaedia Britannica, ed. 11, 1910, vol. 17, pp. 1008-1009.]

By 1885 nearly all the tools for modern kinematic analysis had been forged. Before discussing
subsequent developments in analysis and synthesis, however, it will be profitable to inquire
what the mechanician--designer and builder of machines--was doing while all of this intellectual
effort was being expended.

Mechanicians and Mechanisms

While the inductive process of recognizing and stating true principles of the kinematics of
mechanisms was proceeding through three generations of French, English, and finally German
scholars, the actual design of mechanisms went ahead with scant regard for what the scholars
were doing and saying.

After the demonstration by Boulton and Watt that large mechanisms could be wrought with sufficient
precision to be useful, the English tool builders Maudslay, Roberts, Clement, Nasmyth, and
Whitworth developed machine tools of increasing size and truth. The design of other machinery
kept pace with--sometimes just behind, sometimes just ahead of--the capacity and capability
of machine tools. In general, there was an increasing sophistication of mechanisms that could
only be accounted for by an increase of information with which the individual designer could start.

Reuleaux pointed out in 1875 that the "almost feverish progress made in the regions of technical
work" was "not a consequence of any increased capacity for intellectual action in the race,
but only the perfecting and extending of the tools with which the intellect works." These tools,
he said, "have increased in number just like those in the modern mechanical workshop--the men
who work them remain the same." Reuleaux went on to say that the theory and practice of machine-kinematics
had "carried on a separate existence side by side." The reason for this failure to apply theory
to practice, and vice versa, must be sought in the defects of the theory, he thought, because
"the mechanisms themselves have been quietly developed in practical machine-design, by invention
and improvement, regardless of whether or not they were accorded any direct and proper theoretical
recognition." He pointed out that the theories had thus far "furnished no new mechanisms."[89]

[Footnote 89: Reuleaux, op. cit. (footnote 68), p. 8.]

It is reasonable, therefore, to ask what was responsible for the appearance of new mechanisms,
and then to see what sort of mechanisms had their origins in this period.

It is immediately evident to a designer that the progress in mechanisms came about through
the spread of knowledge of what had already been done; but designers of the last century had
neither the leisure nor means to be constantly visiting other workshops, near and far, to observe
and study the latest developments. In the 1800's, as now, word must in the main be spread by
the printed page.

Hachette's chart (fig. 28) had set the pattern for display of mechanical contrivances in practical
journals and in the large number of mechanical dictionaries that were compiled to meet an apparent
demand for such information. It is a little surprising, however, to find how persistent were
some of Hachette's ideas that could only have come from the uppermost superficial layer of
his cranium. See, for example, his "anchored ferryboat" (fig. 34). This device, employed by
Hachette to show conversion of continuous rectilinear motion into alternating circular motion,
appeared in one publication after another throughout the 19th century. As late as 1903 the
ferryboat was still anchored in Hiscox's Mechanical Movements, although the tide had changed
(fig. 35).[90]

[Footnote 90: Gardner D. Hiscox, ed., Mechanical Movements, ed. 10, New York, 1903, p. 151.
The ferryboat did not appear in the 1917 edition.]

During the upsurge of the Lyceum--or working-man's institute--movement in the 1820's, Jacob
Bigelow, Rumford professor of applied science at Harvard University, gave his popular lectures
on the "Elements of Technology" before capacity audiences in Boston. In preparing his lecture
on the elements of machinery, Bigelow used as his authorities Hachette, Lanz and Bétancourt,
and Olinthus Gregory's mechanical dictionary, an English work in which Hachette's classification
scheme was copied and his chart reproduced.[91]

[Footnote 91: Jacob Bigelow, Elements of Technology, ed. 2, Boston, 1831, pp. 231-256; Olinthus
Gregory, A Treatise of Mechanics, 3 vols., ed. 3, London, 1815.]

A translation of the work of Lanz and Bétancourt[92] under the title Analytical Essay on the
Construction of Machines, was published about 1820 at London by Rudolph Ackermann (for whom
the Ackermann steering linkage was named), and their synoptic chart was reprinted again in
1822 in Durham.[93] In the United States, Appleton's Dictionary of Machines[94] (1851) adopted
the same system and used the same figures. Apparently the wood engraver traced directly onto
his block the figures from one of the reprints of Lanz and Bétancourt's chart because the figures
are in every case exact mirror images of the originals.

[Footnote 92: Rudolph Ackermann, Analytical Essay on the Construction of Machines, London,
about 1820, a translation of Lanz and Bétancourt, op. cit. (footnote 64).]

[Footnote 93: Thomas Fenwick, Essays on Practical Mechanics, ed. 3, Durham, England, 1822.]

[Footnote 94: Appleton's Dictionary of Machines, Mechanics, Engine-Work, and Engineering, 2
vols., New York, 1851 ("Motion").]

In the Dictionary of Engineering[95] (London, 1873), the figures were redrawn and dozens of
mechanisms were added to the repertory of mechanical motions; the result was a fair catalog
of sound ideas. The ferryboat still tugged at its anchor cable, however.[96] Knight's American
Mechanical Dictionary,[97] a classic of detailed pictorial information compiled by a U.S. patent
examiner, contained well over 10,000 finely detailed figures of various kinds of mechanical
contrivances. Knight did not have a separate section on mechanisms, but there was little need
for one of the Hachette variety, because his whole dictionary was a huge and fascinating compendium
of ideas to be filed away in the synthetic mind. One reason for the popularity and usefulness
of the various pictorial works was the peculiar ability of a wood or steel engraving to convey
precise mechanical information, an advantage not possessed by modern halftone processes.

[Footnote 95: E. F. and N. Spon, Dictionary of Engineering, London 1873, pp. 2421-2452.]

[Footnote 96: Ibid., p. 2447.]

[Footnote 97: Edward H. Knight, Knight's American Mechanical Dictionary, 3 vols., New York
1874-1876.]

Many patent journals and other mechanical periodicals concerned with mechanics were available
in English from the beginning of the 19th century, but few of them found their way into the
hands of American mechanicians until after 1820. Oliver Evans (1755-1819) had much to say about
"the difficulties inventive mechanics labored under for want of published records of what had
preceded them, and for works of reference to help the beginner."[98] In 1817 the North American
Review also remarked upon the scarcity of engineering books in America.[99]

[Footnote 98: George Escol Sellers in American Machinist, July 12, 1884, vol. 7, p. 3.]

[Footnote 99: North-American Review and Miscellaneous Journal, 1819, new ser., vol. 8, pp.
13-15, 25.]

The Scientific American, which appeared in 1845 as a patent journal edited by the patent promoter
Rufus Porter, carried almost from its beginning a column or so entitled "Mechanical Movements,"
in which one or two mechanisms--borrowed from an English work that had borrowed from a French
work--were illustrated and explained. This 1943 edition included photographs of kinematic models.[101]

[Footnote 100: Henry T. Brown, ed., Five Hundred and Seven Mechanical Movements, New York, 1868.]

[Footnote 101: Will M. Clark, A Manual of Mechanical Movements, Garden City, New York, 1943.]

Many readers are already well acquainted with the three volumes of Ingenious Mechanisms for
Designers and Inventors,[102] a work that resulted from a contest, announced by Machinery (vol.
33, p. 405) in 1927, in which seven prizes were offered for the seven best articles on unpublished
ingenious mechanisms.

[Footnote 102: Ingenious Mechanisms for Designers and Inventors (vols. 1 and 2 edited by F.
D. Jones, vol. 3 edited by H. L. Horton), New York, Industrial Press, 1930-1951.]

There was an interesting class of United States patents called "Mechanical Movements" that
comprised scores of patents issued throughout the middle decades of the 19th century. A sampling
of these patents shows that while some were for devices used in particular machines--such as
a ratchet device for a numbering machine, a locking index for gunmaking machinery, and a few
gear trains--the great majority were for converting reciprocating motion to rotary motion.
Even a cursory examination of these patents reveals an appalling absence of sound mechanical
sense, and many of them appear to be attempts at "perpetual motion," in spite of an occasional
disclaimer of such intent.

Typical of many of these patented devices was a linkage for "multiplying" the motion of a flywheel,
proposed in 1841 by Charles Johnson of Amity, Illinois (fig. 37). "It is not pretended that
there is any actual gain of power," wrote Mr. Johnson; and probably he meant it. The avowed
purpose of his linkage was to increase the speed of a flywheel and thus decrease its size.[103]

[Footnote 103: U.S. Patent 2295, October 11, 1841.]

An Englishman who a few years earlier had invented a "new Motion" had claimed that his device
would supersede the "ordinary crank in steam engines," the beam, parallel motion, and "external
flywheel," reduce friction, neutralize "all extra contending power," and leave nothing for
the piston to do "but the work intended to be done."

A correspondent of the Repertory of Patent Inventions made short work of this device: "There
is hardly one assertion that can be supported by proof," he wrote, "and most of them are palpable
misstatements." The writer attacked "the 'beetle impetus wheel,' which he [the inventor] thinks
us all so beetle-headed, as not to perceive to be a flywheel," and concluded with the statement:
"In short the whole production evinces gross ignorance either of machinery, if the patentee
really believed what he asserted, or of mankind, if he did not."[104]

[Footnote 104: Repertory of Patent Inventions, ser. 3, October 1828, vol. 7, pp. 196-200, and
December 1828, vol. 7, pp. 357-361.]

Although many of the mechanisms for which patents were taken out were designed by persons who
would make no use of the principles involved even if such principles could at that time have
been clearly stated, it is a regrettable fact that worthless mechanisms often got as much space
as sound ones in patent journals, and objections such as the one above were infrequent. The
slanted information thus conveyed to the young mechanician, who was just accumulating his first
kinematic repertory, was at times sadly misleading.

From even this sketchy outline of the literature on the subject, it should be fairly evident
that there has been available to the mechanician an enormous quantity of information about
mechanical linkages and other devices. Whatever one may think of the quality of the literature,
it has undoubtedly had influence not only in supplying designers with information but in forming
a tradition of how one ought to supply the background that will enable the mind to assemble
and synthesize the necessary mechanism for a given purpose.[105]

[Footnote 105: Some additional catalogs of "mechanical movements" are listed in the selected
references at the end of this paper.]

Some of the mechanisms that have been given names--such as the Watt straight-line linkage and
the Geneva stop--have appeared in textbook after textbook. Their only excuse for being seems
to be that the authors must include them or risk censure by colleagues. Such mechanisms are
more interesting to a reader, certainly, when he has some idea of what the name has to do with
the mechanism, and who originated it. One such mechanism is the drag link.

After I had learned of the drag link (as most American engineering students do), I wondered
for awhile, and eventually despaired of making any sense out of the term. What, I wanted to
know, was being dragged? Recently, in Nicholson's Operative Mechanic and British Machinist
(1826), I ran across the sketch reproduced here as figure 38. This figure, explained Mr. Nicholson
(in vol. 1, p. 32) "represents the coupling link used by Messrs. Boulton and Watt in their
portable steam engines. A, a strong iron pin, projecting from one of the arms of the fly-wheel
B; D, a crank connected with the shaft C; and E, a link to couple the pin A and the crank D
together, so the motion may be communicated to the shaft C." So the drag link was actually
a link of a coupling. Nothing could be more logical. A drag link mechanism now makes sense to me.

Directly related to the drag link coupling were the patents of John Oldham (1779-1840), an
Irish engineer who is remembered mainly for the coupling that bears his name (fig. 39). His
three patents, which were for various forms of steamboat feathering paddle wheels, involved
linkages kinematically similar to the drag link coupling, although it is quite unlikely that
Oldham recognized the similarity. However, for his well-known coupling, which employs an inversion
of the elliptical trammel mechanism, I have found no evidence of a patent. Probably it was
part of the machinery that he designed for the Bank of Ireland's printing house, of which Oldham
was manager for many years. "Mr. Oldham and his beautiful system" were brought to the Bank
of England in 1836, where Oldham remained until his death in 1840.[106]

[Footnote 106: Oldham's paddle-wheel patents were British Patents 4169 (October 10, 1817),
4429 (January 15, 1820), and 5445 (February 1, 1827). Robert Willis (op. cit. footnote 21,
p. 167) noticed the existence of the coupling. Drawings or descriptions of the banknote machinery
apparently have not been published though they probably still exist in the banks' archives.
The quotation is from Frederick G. Hall, The Bank of Ireland 1783-1946, Dublin, 1949. John
Francis in his History of the Bank of England (London, 1848, vol. 2, p. 232) wrote: "The new
machinery for printing the notes, which was introduced by Mr. Oldham ... is well worthy of
a visit, but would be uninteresting to delineate."]

The Geneva stop mechanism (fig. 40) was properly described by Willis as a device to permit
less than a full revolution of the star wheel and thus to prevent overwinding of a watch spring.
It was called Geneva stop because it was used in Geneva watches. The Geneva wheel mechanism,
which permits full rotation of the star wheel and which is frequently used for intermittent
drives, was improperly called a Geneva stop in a recent textbook probably because the logical
origin of the term had been lost.

The name for the Scotch yoke seems to be of fairly recent origin, the linkage being called
by a Scotsman in 1869 a "crank and slot-headed sliding rod" (fig. 41). I suppose that it is
now known as a Scotch yoke because, in America at least, a "Scotch" was a slotted bar that
was slipped under a collar on a string of well-drilling tools to support them while a section
was being added (fig. 42).

It was surprising to me to find that the Ackermann steering linkage, used today on most automobiles,
was patented in 1818 when Detroit was still a frontier town.[107] Furthermore, the man who
took out the patent described himself as Rudolph Ackermann, publisher and printseller. I thought
I had the necessary clue to the linkage's origin when I noticed that the first English translation
of the Lanz and Bétancourt treatise was published by Ackermann, but the connection finally
proved to be more logical, if less direct. Ackermann (1764-1834), son of a Bavarian coach builder,
had spent a number of years designing coaches for English gentlemen in London, where he made
his home. One of his more notable commissions was for the design of Admiral Nelson's funeral
car in 1805. The Ackermann steering linkage was not actually Ackermann's invention, although
he took out the British patent in his name and promoted the introduction of the running gear
of which the linkage was a part (fig. 43). The actual inventor was Ackermann's friend George
Lankensperger of Munich, coachmaker to the King of Bavaria. The advantage of being able to
turn a carriage around in a limited area without danger of oversetting was immediately obvious,
and while there was considerable opposition by English coachmakers to an innovation for which
a premium had to be paid, the invention soon "made its way from its own intrinsic merit," as
Ackermann predicted it would.[108]

[Footnote 107: British Patent 4212, January 27, 1818.]

[Footnote 108: Rudolph Ackermann, Observations on Ackermann's Patent Moveable Axles, London,
1819. It was interesting to me to note an abstract of W. A. Wolfe's paper "Analytical Design
of an Ackermann Steering Linkage" in Mechanical Engineering, September 1958, vol. 80, p. 92.]

The Whitworth quick-return mechanism (fig. 44) was first applied to a slotter, or vertical
shaper, in 1849, and was exhibited in 1851 at the Great Exhibition in London.[109] Willis'
comments on the mechanism are reproduced in figure 44. I hope that Sir Joseph Whitworth (1803-1887)
will be remembered for sounder mechanical contrivances than this.

[Footnote 109: The quick-return mechanism (British Patent 12907, December 19, 1849) was perhaps
first publicly described in Charles Tomlinson, ed., Cyclopaedia of Useful Arts and Manufactures,
London, 1854, vol. 1, p. cxliv.]

Mechanisms in America, 1875-1955

Engineering colleges in the United States were occupied until the late 1940's with extending,
refining, and sharpening the tools of analysis that had been suggested by Willis, Rankine,
Reuleaux, Kennedy, and Smith. The actual practice of kinematic synthesis went on apace, but
designers often declined such help as the analytical methods might give them and there was
little exchange of ideas between scholars and practitioners.

The capability and precision of machine tools were greatly enhanced during this period, although,
with the exception of the centerless grinder, no significant new types of tools appeared. The
machines that were made with machine tools increased in complexity and, with the introduction
of ideas that made mass production of complex mechanical products economically feasible, there
was an accelerating increase in quantity. The adoption of standards for all sorts of component
parts also had an important bearing upon the ability of a designer economically to produce
mechanisms that operated very nearly as he hoped they would.

The study of kinematics has been considered for nearly 80 years as a necessary part of the
mechanical engineer's training, as the dozens of textbooks that have been published over the
years make amply clear. Until recently, however, one would look in vain for original work in
America in the analysis or rational synthesis of mechanisms.

One of the very earliest American textbooks of kinematics was the 1883 work of Charles W. MacCord
(1836-1915), who had been appointed professor of mechanical drawing at Stevens Institute of
Technology in Hoboken after serving John Ericsson, designer of the Monitor, as chief draftsman
during the Civil War.[110] Based upon the findings of Willis and Rankine, MacCord's Kinematics
came too early to be influenced by Kennedy's improvements upon Reuleaux's work.

[Footnote 110: A biographical notice and a bibliography of MacCord appears in Morton Memorial:
A History of the Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, 1905, pp. 219-222.]

When the faculty at Washington University in St. Louis introduced in 1885 a curriculum in "dynamic
engineering," reflecting a dissatisfaction with the traditional branches of engineering, kinematics
was a senior subject and was taught from Rankine's Machinery and Millwork.[111]

[Footnote 111: Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1885-1886, vol.
7, p. 757.]

At Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Peter Schwamb, professor of machine design, put together
in 1885 a set of printed notes on the kinematics of mechanisms, based on Reuleaux's and Rankine's
works. Out of these notes grew one of the most durable of American textbooks, first published
in 1904.[112] In the first edition of this work, acceleration was mentioned only once in passing
(on p. 4). Velocities in linkages were determined by orthogonal components transferred from
link to link. Instant centers were used only to determine velocities of various points on the
same link. Angular velocity ratios were frequently noted. In the third edition, published in
1921, linear and angular accelerations were defined, but no acceleration analyses were made.
Velocity analyses were altered without essential change. The fourth edition (1930) was essentially
unchanged from the previous one. Treatment of velocity analysis was improved in the fifth edition
(1938) and acceleration analysis was added. A sixth edition, further revised by Prof. V. L.
Doughtie of the University of Texas, appeared in 1947.

[Footnote 112: Peter Schwamb and Allyne L. Merrill, Elements of Mechanism, New York, 1904.
In addition to the work of Reuleaux and Rankine, the authors acknowledged their use of the
publications of Charles MacCord, Stillman W. Robinson, Thomas W. Goodeve, and William C. Unwin.
For complete titles see the list of selected references.]

Before 1900, several other books on mechanisms had been published, and all followed one or
another of the patterns of their predecessors. Professors Woods and Stahl, at the Universities
of Illinois and Purdue, respectively, who published their Elementary Mechanism in 1885, said
in their preface what has been said by many other American authors and what should have been
said by many more. "We make little claim to originality of the subject-matter," wrote Woods
and Stahl, "free use having been made of all available matter on the subject.... Our claim
to consideration is based almost entirely on the manner in which the subject has been presented."
Not content with this disclaimer, they continued: "There is, in fact, very little room for
such originality, the ground having been almost completely covered by previous writers."[113]

[Footnote 113: Arthur T. Woods and Albert W. Stahl, Elementary Mechanism, New York, 1885.]

The similarity and aridity of kinematics textbooks in this country from around 1910 are most
striking. The generation of textbook writers following MacCord, Woods and Stahl, Barr of Cornell,
Robinson of Ohio State, and Schwamb and Merrill managed to squeeze out any remaining juice
in the subject, and the dessication and sterilization of textbooks was nearly complete when
my generation used them in the 1930's. Kinematics was then, in more than one school, very nearly
as it was characterized by an observer in 1942--"on an intellectual par with mechanical drafting."[114]
I can recall my own naïve belief that a textbook contained all that was known of the subject;
and I was not disabused of my belief by my own textbook or by my teacher. I think I detect
in several recent books a fresh, less final, and less tidy treatment of the kinematics of mechanisms,
but I would yet recommend that anyone who thinks of writing a textbook take time to review,
carefully and at first hand, not only the desk copies of books that he has accumulated but
a score or more of earlier works, covering the last century at least. Such a study should result
in a better appreciation of what constitutes a contribution to knowledge and what constitutes
merely the ringing of another change.

[Footnote 114: Mechanical Engineering, October 1942, vol. 64, p. 745.]

The author of the contentious article that appeared in Mechanical Engineering in 1942 under
the title "What is Wrong with Kinematics and Mechanisms?" made several pronouncements that
were questioned by various readers, but his remarks on the meagerness of the college courses
of kinematics and the "curious fact" that the textbooks "are all strangely similar in their
incompleteness" went unchallenged and were, in fact, quite timely.[115]

[Footnote 115: De Jonge, op. cit. (footnote 78).]

It appears that in the early 1940's the general classroom treatment of accelerations was at
a level well below the existing knowledge of the subject, for in a series of articles by two
teachers at Purdue attention was called to the serious consequences of errors in acceleration
analysis occasioned by omitting the Coriolis component.[116] These authors were reversing a
trend that had been given impetus by an article written in 1920 by one of their predecessors,
Henry N. Bonis. The earlier article, appearing in a practical-and-proud-of-it technical magazine,
demonstrated how the acceleration of a point on a flywheel governor might be determined "without
the use of the fictitious acceleration of Coriolis." The author's analysis was right enough,
and he closed his article with the unimpeachable statement that "it is better psychologically
for the student and practically for the engineer to understand the fundamentals thoroughly
than to use a complex formula that may be misapplied." However, many readers undoubtedly read
only the lead paragraph, sagely nodded their heads when they reached the word "fictitious,"
which confirmed their half-formed conviction that anything as abstruse as the Coriolis component
could have no bearing upon a practical problem, and turned the page to the "practical kinks"
section.[117]

[Footnote 116: A. S. Hall and E. S. Ault, "How Acceleration Analysis Can Be Improved," Machine
Design, February 1943, vol. 15, pp. 100-102, 162, 164; and March 1943, vol. 15, pp. 90-92,
168, 170. See also A. S. Hall, "Teaching Coriolis' Law," Journal of Engineering Education,
June 1948, vol. 38, pp. 757-765.]

[Footnote 117: Henry N. Bonis, "The Law of Coriolis," American Machinist, November 18, 1920,
vol. 53, pp. 928-930. See also "Acceleration Determinations," American Machinist, November
25 and December 2, 1920, vol. 53, pp. 977-981 and 1027-1029.]

Less than 20 years ago one might have read in Mechanical Engineering that "Practical machinery
does not originate in mathematical formulas nor in beautiful vector diagrams." While this remark
was in a letter evoked by an article, and was not a reflection of editorial policy, it was
nevertheless representative of an element in the American tradition of engineering. The unconscious
arrogance that is displayed in this statement of the "practical" designer's creed is giving
way to recognition of the value of scholarly work. Lest the scholar develop arrogance of another
sort, however, it is well to hear the author of the statement out. "A drafting machine is a
useful tool," he wrote. "It is not a substitute for a draftsman."[118]

[Footnote 118: Mechanical Engineering, October 1942, vol. 64, p. 746.]

The scholarly interest in a subject is fairly represented by the papers that are published
in the transactions of professional societies and, more recently, by original papers that appear
in specialized magazines. From 1900 to 1930 there were few papers on mechanisms, and most of
those that did appear were concerned with descriptions of new "mechanical motions." In the
1930's the number of papers reported in Engineering Index increased sharply, but only because
the editors had begun to include foreign-language listings.

There has been in Germany a thread of continuity in the kinematics of mechanisms since the
time of Reuleaux. While most of the work has had to do with analysis, the teasing question
of synthesis that Reuleaux raised in his work has never been ignored. The developments in Germany
and elsewhere have been ably reviewed by others,[119] and it is only to be noted here that
two of the German papers, published in 1939 in Maschinenbau, appear to have been the sparks
for the conflagration that still is increasing in extent and intensity. According to summaries
in Engineering Index, R. Kraus, writing on the synthesis of the double-crank mechanism, drew
fire from the Russian Z. S. Bloch, who, in 1940, discussed critically Kraus's articles and
proceeded to give the outline of the "correct analysis of the problem" and a general numerical
solution for the synthesis of "any four-bar linkage."[120] Russian work in mechanisms, dating
back to Chebyshev and following the "Chebyshev theory of synthesis" in which algebraic methods
are used to determine paths of minimum deviation from a given curve, has also been reviewed
elsewhere,[121] and I can add nothing of value.

[Footnote 119: Grodzinski, Bottema, De Jonge, and Hartenberg and Denavit. For complete titles
see list of selected references.]

[Footnote 120: My source, as noted, is Engineering Index. Kraus's articles are reported in
1939 and Bloch's in 1940, both under the section heading "Mechanisms."]

[Footnote 121: A. E. Richard de Jonge, "Are the Russians Ahead in Mechanism Analysis?" Machine
Design, September 1951, vol. 23, pp. 127, 200-208; O. Bottema, "Recent Work on Kinematics,"
Applied Mechanics Reviews, April 1953, vol. 6, pp. 169-170.]

When, after World War II, some of the possibilities of kinematic synthesis were recognized
in the United States, a few perceptive teachers fanned the tinder into an open flame.

The first publication of note in this country on the synthesis of linkages was a practical
one, but in conception and undertaking it was a bold enterprise. In a book by John A. Hrones
and G. L. Nelson, Analysis of the Four Bar Linkage (1951), the four-bar crank-and-rocker mechanism
was exhaustively analyzed mechanically and the results were presented graphically. This work
was faintly praised by a Dutch scholar, O. Bottema, who observed that the "complicated analytical
theory of the three-bar [sic] curve has undoubtedly kept the engineer from using it" and who
went on to say that "we fully understand the publication of an atlas by Hrones and Nelson containing
thousands of trajectories which must be very useful in many design problems."[122] Nevertheless,
the authors furnished designers with a tool that could be readily, almost instantly, understood
(fig. 45), and the atlas has enjoyed wide circulation.[123] The idea of a geometrical approach
to synthesis has been exploited by others in more recent publications,[124] and it is likely
that many more variations on this theme will appear.

[Footnote 122: Bottema, op. cit. (footnote 121).]

[Footnote 123: In 1851 Robert Willis had designed a coupler-point path-generating machine (fig.
46) that could have been used to produce a work similar to that of Hrones and Nelson.]

[Footnote 124: R. S. Hartenberg and J. Denavit, "Systematic Mechanism Design," Machine Design,
September 1954, vol. 26, pp. 167-175, and October 1954, vol. 26, pp. 257-265; A. S. Hall, A.
R. Holowenko, and H. G. Laughlin, "Four-Bar Lever Crank Mechanism," Design News, September
15, 1957, vol. 12, pp. 130-139, October 1, 1957, vol. 12, pp. 145-154, and October 15, 1957,
vol. 12, pp. 132-141. For a nomographic approach, with particular application to computers,
see Antonin Svoboda, Computing Mechanisms and Linkages, New York, 1948.]

Pursuit of solutions to the "complicated analytical theory" of linkages was stimulated by publication
of Ferdinand Freudenstein's "Analytical Approach to the Design of Four-Link Mechanisms" in
1954,[125] and an increasing interest in the problem is indicated by the extensive literature
that has appeared in the last five years.

[Footnote 125: Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1954, vol. 76,
pp. 483-492. See also Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1955, vol.
77, pp. 853-861, and 1956, vol. 78, pp. 779-787.]

The proper role of rational methods in the synthesis of mechanisms is not yet clear. "While
we may talk about kinematic synthesis," wrote two of today's leaders in the field, "we are
really talking about a hope for the future rather than a great reality of the present."[126]
When the mental equipment and the enthusiasm of scholars who are devoting their time to the
problems of kinematic synthesis are considered, however, it is difficult to see how important
new ideas can fail to be produced.

[Footnote 126: R. S. Hartenberg and J. Denavit, "Kinematic Synthesis," Machine Design, September
6, 1956, vol. 28, pp. 101-105.]

An annual Conference on Mechanisms, sponsored by Purdue University and Machine Design, was
inaugurated in 1953 and has met with a lively response. Among other manifestations of current
interest in mechanisms, the contributions of Americans to international conferences on mechanisms
reflects the growing recognition of the value of scholarly investigation of the kind that can
scarcely hope to yield immediately tangible results.

While we look to the future, one may ask how a lengthy view of the past can be justified. It
seems to me that there is inherent in the almost feverish activity of the present the danger
of becoming so preoccupied with operational theory that the goals may become clouded and the
synthesis (let us put it less elegantly: the design) of mechanisms may never quite come into
focus. If one knows nothing of the past, I wonder how he can with any confidence decide in
what direction he must turn in order to face the future.

Acknowledgment

I am grateful to Professors Richard S. Hartenberg and Allen S. Hall, Jr., for reading the manuscript,
making helpful comments, and suggesting material that I had not found. The errors, however,
are mine.

Additional References

The following list of additional reference material on kinematics may be of help to readers
who desire to do independent research. The material is listed according to the section headings
in the text of the present article.

Contains a useful bibliography. Reprinted in Squaring the Circle and Other Monographs, New
York, Chelsea Publishing Company, 1953.

Much attention has been given to straight-line mechanisms since the time of Kempe; at least
a half dozen articles have appeared in the United States since 1950, but I did not investigate
the literature published after 1877.

SCHOLARS AND MACHINES

BECK, THEODOR. Beiträge zur Geschichte des Maschinenbaues. Berlin, 1899.

Reviews of early works, such as those by Leonardo da Vinci, Biringuccio, Besson, Zonca, etc.

BORGNIS, GIUSEPPE ANTONIO.

Contains several hundred finely detailed plates of machines.

LABOULAYE, CHARLES. Traité de cinématique ou théorie des mécanismes. Paris, 1861 (ed. 2).

This work was quoted frequently by Laboulaye's contemporaries.

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON. Catalogue of Scientific Papers, 1800-1900, Author Index. London, 1867-1902,
and Cambridge, 1914-1925.

----. Catalogue of Scientific Papers, 1800-1900, Subject Index. London, 1909, vol. 2.

This subject index was started in 1908, and by 1914 three volumes (the third in two parts)
had been published; however, this subject index was never completed. Volume 2, titled Mechanics,
has some 200 entries under "Linkages." It is interesting to note that both of the Royal Society's
monumental catalogs grew out of a suggestion made by Joseph Henry at a British Association
meeting in Glasgow in 1855.

WEISBACH, JULIUS. The Mechanics of the Machinery of Transmission, vol. 3, pt. 1, sec. 2 of
Mechanics of Engineering and Machinery, translated by J. F. Klein. New York, 1890 (ed. 2).

MECHANISMS AND MECHANICIANS

BARBER, THOMAS W. Engineer's Sketch-Book. London, 1890 (ed. 2).

HERKIMER, HERBERT. Engineer's Illustrated Thesaurus. New York, 1952.

PERIODICALS. Artizan, from 1843; Practical Mechanic and Engineer's Magazine, from 1841; Repertory
of Arts and Manufactures, from 1794; Newton's London Journal of Arts and Science, from 1820.
(The preceding periodicals have many plates of patent specification drawings.) The Engineer,
November 10, 1933, vol. 156, p. 463, and Engineering, November 10, 1933, vol. 136, p. 525.
(Recent English views questioning the utility of kinematics.)

TATE, THOMAS. Elements of Mechanism. London, 1851.

Contains figures from Lanz and Bétancourt (1808).

WYLSON, JAMES. Mechanical Inventor's Guide. London, 1859.

Contains figures from Henry Adcock, Adcock's Engineers' Pocket-Book, 1858.

MECHANISMS IN AMERICA, 1875-1955

ALBERT, CALVIN D., AND ROGERS, F. D. Kinematics of Machinery. New York, 1931.

Contains a bibliography that includes works not mentioned in the present paper.

BARR, JOHN H. Kinematics of Machinery. New York, 1899.

An early textbook. The author taught at Cornell University.

BEGGS, JOSEPH S. Mechanism. New York, 1955.

Contains an extensive and useful bibliography.

CONFERENCE ON MECHANISMS.

This conference was sponsored by Purdue University and Machine Design. Transactions of the
first two conferences appeared as special sections in Machine Design, December 1953, vol. 25,
pp. 173-220, December 1954, vol. 26, pp. 187-236, and in collected reprints. Papers of the
third and fourth conferences (May 1956 and October 1957) appeared in Machine Design over several
months following each conference and in collected reprints. Papers of the fifth conference
(October 1958) were collected and preprinted for conference participants; subsequently, all
papers appeared in Machine Design. Collected reprints and preprints are available (May 1960)
from Penton Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio.

DE JONGE, A. E. RICHARD. "Kinematic Synthesis of Mechanisms," Mechanical Engineering, July
1940, vol. 62, pp. 537-542.

----. "A Brief Account of Modern Kinematics," Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, 1943, vol. 65, pp. 663-683.

GOODEVE, THOMAS M. The Elements of Mechanism. London, 1903.

An early textbook.

GRODZINSKI, PAUL, AND MCEWEN, EWEN. "Link Mechanisms in Modern Kinematics," Journal and Proceedings
of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 1954, vol. 168, pp. 877-896.

This article evoked interesting discussion. It is unfortunate that Grodzinski's periodical,
Mechanism, An International Bibliography, which was published in London in 1956-1957 and which
terminated shortly after his death, has not been revived. Grodzinski's incisive views and informative
essays are valuable and interesting.

HARTENBERG, R. S. "Complex Numbers and Four-Bar Linkages," Machine Design, March 20, 1958,
vol. 30, pp. 156-163.

This is an excellent primer. The author explains complex numbers in his usual lucid fashion.

MACCORD, CHARLES. Kinematics. New York, 1883.

An early textbook.

ROBINSON, STILLMAN W. Principles of Mechanism. New York, 1896.

An early textbook. The author taught at Ohio State University.

UNWIN, WILLIAM C. The Elements of Machine Design. New York, 1882 (ed. 4).

An early textbook. The author taught at Royal Indian Engineering College, in England.

