After reading the brilliant reports in the Chicago papers and seeing the handsome, refined
policemen at the various meetings, I am not surprised that our magazine is being appreciated.
Apropos of the Chicago police, just fancy, I have actually forced them out of their uniforms.
I hope this will not conjure up the horrible picture of Chicago's finest parading the city
in Adam's costume. Not that! Only, Chief of Police Collins was so outraged over my gentle criticism
of his dear little boys at one of the woodworkers' meetings, that he gave strict orders, "No
officer should again appear at a public meeting in uniform where that awful Emma Goldman is
humiliating and degrading the emblem of authority and law."

After this, I hope you will never again doubt the importance of public meetings and the great
and far-reaching influence of my speaking.

I shall soon be with you, if I survive my tour, the police, and the press. I shall then try
to make up for my sins, in the July number of MOTHER EARTH, provided you will let me recuperate
in your editorial care and affection.

EMMA GOLDMAN.

LIBERTARIAN INSTRUCTION.

By EMILE JANVION.

AMONG the important duties of Anarchists libertarian instruction should occupy the first place.
As revolutionary propaganda it is the most effective. Tolstoi in Yasnaia-Poliana, Reclus at
Bruxelles, Paul Robin at Cempius, the group of the Free School at Paris have inaugurated attempts
during the period of daring we have witnessed of late years.

Far from mixing education with instruction, the former should be considered as the natural
consequence of the latter.

Our ideas should never be imposed by an education too specialized, narrow or sectarian, but
by means of full and all-round instruction which opens the mind to criticism and makes it accessible
to the power of truth which is our strength and which will complete the forming of the character.

Our instruction should be integral, rational, and mixed.

Integral--Because it will tend to develop the whole being and make a complete, free ensemble,
equally progressive in all knowledge, intellectual, physical, manual and professional, and
this from the earliest age.

Rational--Because it will be based on reason and in conformity with actual science and not
on faith; on the development of personal Freedom and independence and not on that of piety
and obedience; on the abolition of the fiction God, the eternal and absolute cause of subjection.

Mixed--Because it favors the coeducation of the sexes in a constant, fraternal, familiar company
of children, boys and girls, which gives to the character of their manners a special earnestness.

To the scientific instruction must be added manual apprenticeship, instruction with which it
is in a constant connection of balance and reciprocity, and also esthetic instruction (music,
art, etc.), which in point of view of an integral development has certainly not a small importance.

To turn our attention towards the child, to encourage the development of its initiative, to
impress it with a sentiment of its dignity, to preserve it from cowardice and falsehood, to
make it observe the pros and cons of all social conceptions, to educate it for the struggle,
that is the great work, scarcely yet begun, which awaits us.

That will be the task of the nearest future if we will act logically and firmly.

THE ANTICHRIST.

    From "The Antichrist," by Friedrich Nietzsche. Edited by Alexander
    Tille, translated by Thomas Common. Publishers: Macmillan & Co. New
    York.

I MAKE war against this theological instinct: I have found traces of it everywhere. Whoever
has theological blood in his veins is from the very beginning ambiguous and disloyal with respect
to everything. The pathos which develops therefrom calls itself belief: the closing of the
eye once for all with respect to one's self, so as not to suffer from the sight--of incurable
falsity. A person makes for himself a morality, a virtue, a sanctity out of this erroneous
perspective towards all things, he unites the good conscience to the false mode of seeing,--he
demands that no other mode of perspective be any longer of value, after he has made his own
sacrosanct with the names of "God," "salvation," and "eternity." I have digged out the theologist-instinct
everywhere; it is the most diffused, the most peculiarly subterranean form of falsity that
exists on earth. What a theologian feels as true, must needs be false: one has therein almost
a criterion of truth. It is his most fundamental self-preservative instinct which forbids reality
to be held in honor, or even to find expression on any point. As far as theologist-influence
extends, the judgment of value is turned right about, the concepts of "true" and "false" are
necessarily reversed: what is most injurious to life is here called "true," what raises, elevates,
affirms, justifies, and makes it triumph is called "false."

                           *       *       *

Let us not underestimate this: we ourselves, we free spirits, are already a "Transvaluation
of all Values," an incarnate declaration of war against and triumph over all old concepts of
"true" and "untrue." The most precious discernments into things are the latest discovered:
the most precious discernments, however, are the methods. All methods, all presuppositions
of our present-day science, have for millenniums been held in the most profound contempt: by
reason of them a person was excluded from intercourse with "honest" men--he passed for an "enemy
of God," a despiser of truth, a "possessed" person. As a scientific man, a person was a Chandala....
We have had the entire pathos of mankind against us--their concept of that which truth ought
to be, which the service of truth ought to be: every "thou shalt" has been hitherto directed
against us. Our objects, our practices, our quiet, prudent, mistrustful mode--all appeared
to mankind as absolutely unworthy and contemptible.--In the end one might, with some reasonableness,
ask one's self if it was not really an esthetic taste which kept mankind in such long blindness:
they wanted a picturesque effect from truth, they wanted in like manner the knowing ones to
operate strongly on their senses. Our modesty was longest against the taste of mankind....
Oh how they made that out, these turkey-cocks of God----. In God, hostility announced to life,
to nature, to the will to life! God as the formula for every calumny of "this world," for every
lie of "another world!" In God nothingness deified, the will to nothingness declared holy!

                           *       *       *

That the strong races of Northern Europe have not thrust from themselves the Christian God,
is verily no honor to their religious talent, not to speak of their taste. They ought to have
got the better of such a sickly and decrepit product of décadence. There lies a curse upon
them, because they have not got the better of it: they have incorporated sickness, old age
and contradiction into all their instincts--they have created no God since! Two millenniums
almost, and not a single new God! But still continuing, and as if persisting by right, as an
ultimatum and maximum of the God-shaping force, of the creator spiritus in man, this pitiable
God of Christian monotono-theism! This hybrid image of ruin, derived from nullity, concept
and contradiction in which all décadence instincts, all cowardices and lassitudes of soul have
their sanction!

                           *       *       *

