O.M. That list of sects is not a record of STUDIES, searchings, seekings after light; it mainly
(and sarcastically) indicates what ASSOCIATION can do. If you know a man's nationality you
can come within a split hair of guessing the complexion of his religion: English--Protestant;
American--ditto; Spaniard, Frenchman, Irishman, Italian, South American--Roman Catholic; Russian--Greek
Catholic; Turk--Mohammedan; and so on. And when you know the man's religious complexion, you
know what sort of religious books he reads when he wants some more light, and what sort of
books he avoids, lest by accident he get more light than he wants. In America if you know which
party-collar a voter wears, you know what his associations are, and how he came by his politics,
and which breed of newspaper he reads to get light, and which breed he diligently avoids, and
which breed of mass-meetings he attends in order to broaden his political knowledge, and which
breed of mass-meetings he doesn't attend, except to refute its doctrines with brickbats. We
are always hearing of people who are around SEEKING AFTER TRUTH. I have never seen a (permanent)
specimen. I think he had never lived. But I have seen several entirely sincere people who THOUGHT
they were (permanent) Seekers after Truth. They sought diligently, persistently, carefully,
cautiously, profoundly, with perfect honesty and nicely adjusted judgment--until they believed
that without doubt or question they had found the Truth. THAT WAS THE END OF THE SEARCH. The
man spent the rest of his life hunting up shingles wherewith to protect his Truth from the
weather. If he was seeking after political Truth he found it in one or another of the hundred
political gospels which govern men in the earth; if he was seeking after the Only True Religion
he found it in one or another of the three thousand that are on the market. In any case, when
he found the Truth HE SOUGHT NO FURTHER; but from that day forth, with his soldering-iron in
one hand and his bludgeon in the other he tinkered its leaks and reasoned with objectors. There
have been innumerable Temporary Seekers of Truth--have you ever heard of a permanent one? In
the very nature of man such a person is impossible. However, to drop back to the text--training:
all training is one from or another of OUTSIDE INFLUENCE, and ASSOCIATION is the largest part
of it. A man is never anything but what his outside influences have made him. They train him
downward or they train him upward--but they TRAIN him; they are at work upon him all the time.

Y.M. Then if he happen by the accidents of life to be evilly placed there is no help for him,
according to your notions--he must train downward.

O.M. No help for him? No help for this chameleon? It is a mistake. It is in his chameleonship
that his greatest good fortune lies. He has only to change his habitat--his ASSOCIATIONS. But
the impulse to do it must come from the OUTSIDE--he cannot originate it himself, with that
purpose in view. Sometimes a very small and accidental thing can furnish him the initiatory
impulse and start him on a new road, with a new idea. The chance remark of a sweetheart, "I
hear that you are a coward," may water a seed that shall sprout and bloom and flourish, and
ended in producing a surprising fruitage--in the fields of war. The history of man is full
of such accidents. The accident of a broken leg brought a profane and ribald soldier under
religious influences and furnished him a new ideal. From that accident sprang the Order of
the Jesuits, and it has been shaking thrones, changing policies, and doing other tremendous
work for two hundred years--and will go on. The chance reading of a book or of a paragraph
in a newspaper can start a man on a new track and make him renounce his old associations and
seek new ones that are IN SYMPATHY WITH HIS NEW IDEAL: and the result, for that man, can be
an entire change of his way of life.

Y.M. Are you hinting at a scheme of procedure?

O.M. Not a new one--an old one. Old as mankind.

Y.M. What is it?

O.M. Merely the laying of traps for people. Traps baited with INITIATORY IMPULSES TOWARD HIGH
IDEALS. It is what the tract-distributor does. It is what the missionary does. It is what governments
ought to do.

Y.M. Don't they?

O.M. In one way they do, in another they don't. They separate the smallpox patients from the
healthy people, but in dealing with crime they put the healthy into the pest-house along with
the sick. That is to say, they put the beginners in with the confirmed criminals. This would
be well if man were naturally inclined to good, but he isn't, and so ASSOCIATION makes the
beginners worse than they were when they went into captivity. It is putting a very severe punishment
upon the comparatively innocent at times. They hang a man--which is a trifling punishment;
this breaks the hearts of his family--which is a heavy one. They comfortably jail and feed
a wife-beater, and leave his innocent wife and family to starve.

Y.M. Do you believe in the doctrine that man is equipped with an intuitive perception of good
and evil?

O.M. Adam hadn't it.

Y.M. But has man acquired it since?

O.M. No. I think he has no intuitions of any kind. He gets ALL his ideas, all his impressions,
from the outside. I keep repeating this, in the hope that I may impress it upon you that you
will be interested to observe and examine for yourself and see whether it is true or false.

Y.M. Where did you get your own aggravating notions?

O.M. From the OUTSIDE. I did not invent them. They are gathered from a thousand unknown sources.
Mainly UNCONSCIOUSLY gathered.

Y.M. Don't you believe that God could make an inherently honest man?

O.M. Yes, I know He could. I also know that He never did make one.

Y.M. A wiser observer than you has recorded the fact that "an honest man's the noblest work
of God."

O.M. He didn't record a fact, he recorded a falsity. It is windy, and sounds well, but it is
not true. God makes a man with honest and dishonest POSSIBILITIES in him and stops there. The
man's ASSOCIATIONS develop the possibilities--the one set or the other. The result is accordingly
an honest man or a dishonest one.

Y.M. And the honest one is not entitled to--

O.M. Praise? No. How often must I tell you that? HE is not the architect of his honesty.

Y.M. Now then, I will ask you where there is any sense in training people to lead virtuous
lives. What is gained by it?

O.M. The man himself gets large advantages out of it, and that is the main thing--to HIM. He
is not a peril to his neighbors, he is not a damage to them--and so THEY get an advantage out
of his virtues. That is the main thing to THEM. It can make this life comparatively comfortable
to the parties concerned; the NEGLECT of this training can make this life a constant peril
and distress to the parties concerned.

Y.M. You have said that training is everything; that training is the man HIMSELF, for it makes
him what he is.

O.M. I said training and ANOTHER thing. Let that other thing pass, for the moment. What were
you going to say?

Y.M. We have an old servant. She has been with us twenty-two years. Her service used to be
faultless, but now she has become very forgetful. We are all fond of her; we all recognize
that she cannot help the infirmity which age has brought her; the rest of the family do not
scold her for her remissnesses, but at times I do--I can't seem to control myself. Don't I
try? I do try. Now, then, when I was ready to dress, this morning, no clean clothes had been
put out. I lost my temper; I lose it easiest and quickest in the early morning. I rang; and
immediately began to warn myself not to show temper, and to be careful and speak gently. I
safe-guarded myself most carefully. I even chose the very word I would use: "You've forgotten
the clean clothes, Jane." When she appeared in the door I opened my mouth to say that phrase--and
out of it, moved by an instant surge of passion which I was not expecting and hadn't time to
put under control, came the hot rebuke, "You've forgotten them again!" You say a man always
does the thing which will best please his Interior Master. Whence came the impulse to make
careful preparation to save the girl the humiliation of a rebuke? Did that come from the Master,
who is always primarily concerned about HIMSELF?

O.M. Unquestionably. There is no other source for any impulse. SECONDARILY you made preparation
to save the girl, but PRIMARILY its object was to save yourself, by contenting the Master.

Y.M. How do you mean?

O.M. Has any member of the family ever implored you to watch your temper and not fly out at
the girl?

Y.M. Yes. My mother.

O.M. You love her?

Y.M. Oh, more than that!

O.M. You would always do anything in your power to please her?

Y.M. It is a delight to me to do anything to please her!

O.M. Why? YOU WOULD DO IT FOR PAY, SOLELY--for PROFIT. What profit would you expect and certainly
receive from the investment?

Y.M. Personally? None. To please HER is enough.

O.M. It appears, then, that your object, primarily, WASN'T to save the girl a humiliation,
but to PLEASE YOUR MOTHER. It also appears that to please your mother gives YOU a strong pleasure.
Is not that the profit which you get out of the investment? Isn't that the REAL profits and
FIRST profit?

Y.M. Oh, well? Go on.

O.M. In ALL transactions, the Interior Master looks to it that YOU GET THE FIRST PROFIT. Otherwise
there is no transaction.

Y.M. Well, then, if I was so anxious to get that profit and so intent upon it, why did I threw
it away by losing my temper?

O.M. In order to get ANOTHER profit which suddenly superseded it in value.

Y.M. Where was it?

O.M. Ambushed behind your born temperament, and waiting for a chance. Your native warm temper
suddenly jumped to the front, and FOR THE MOMENT its influence was more powerful than your
mother's, and abolished it. In that instance you were eager to flash out a hot rebuke and enjoy
it. You did enjoy it, didn't you?

Y.M. For--for a quarter of a second. Yes--I did.

O.M. Very well, it is as I have said: the thing which will give you the MOST pleasure, the
most satisfaction, in any moment or FRACTION of a moment, is the thing you will always do.
You must content the Master's LATEST whim, whatever it may be.

Y.M. But when the tears came into the old servant's eyes I could have cut my hand off for what
I had done.

O.M. Right. You had humiliated YOURSELF, you see, you had given yourself PAIN. Nothing is of
FIRST importance to a man except results which damage HIM or profit him--all the rest is SECONDARY.
Your Master was displeased with you, although you had obeyed him. He required a prompt REPENTANCE;
you obeyed again; you HAD to--there is never any escape from his commands. He is a hard master
and fickle; he changes his mind in the fraction of a second, but you must be ready to obey,
and you will obey, ALWAYS. If he requires repentance, you content him, you will always furnish
it. He must be nursed, petted, coddled, and kept contented, let the terms be what they may.

Y.M. Training! Oh, what's the use of it? Didn't I, and didn't my mother try to train me up
to where I would no longer fly out at that girl?

O.M. Have you never managed to keep back a scolding?

Y.M. Oh, certainly--many times.

O.M. More times this year than last?

Y.M. Yes, a good many more.

O.M. More times last year than the year before?

Y.M. Yes.

O.M. There is a large improvement, then, in the two years?

Y.M. Yes, undoubtedly.

