"I had a fine five-room house and while I was down sick, my daughter sold it and I didn't get
but twenty-nine dollars out of it. She got the money, but I never seed it. I jus' lives here
in these rags and this dirt and these old broken-down pieces of furniture. I've got fine furniture
that she keeps in her house.

"I get some help from the Welfare. They give me eight dollars. They give me commodities too.
They give me six at first, and they increased it. My case worker said she would try to git
me some more. God knows I need it. I have to pay for everything I get. Have to pay a boy to
go get water for me. There's people that gits more 'n they need and have plenty time to go
fishin' but don't have no time to work. You see those boys there goin' fishin'; but that's
not their fault. One of the merchants in town had them cut off from work because they didn't
trade with him.

"You gets 'round lots, son, don't you? Well; if you see anybody that has some old shoes they
don't want, git 'em to give 'em to me. I don't care whether they are men's shoes or women's
shoes. Men's shoes are more comfortable. I wear number sevens. I don't know what last. Can't
you tell? (I suppose that her shoes would be seven E--ed.) I can't live off eight dollar. I
have to eat, git help with my washing, pay a child to go for my water, 'n everything. I got
these dresses give to me. They too small, and I got 'em laid out to be let out.

"You just come in any time; I can't talk to you like I would a woman; but I guess you can understand
me."

Interviewer's Comment

Sallie Crane lives near the highway between Sweet Home and Wrightsville. Wrightsville post
office, Lucinda Hays' box. McLain Birch, 1711 Wolfe Street, Little Rock, knows the way to her
house.

Her age is not less than ninety, because she hoed cotton and plowed before the War. If anything,
it is more than the ninety which she claims. Those who know her well say she must be at least
ninety-five.

She has a good memory although she complains of her health. She seems to be pretty well dependent
on herself and the Welfare and is asking for old clothes and shoes as you will note by the story.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Isaac Crawford
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 75

"I was born the first year of the Civil War. I was born and raised and married in Holmes County,
Mississippi. My parents was named Harriett and James Crawford. They belong to a widow woman,
Miss Sallie Crawford. She had a girl named Bettie and three sons named Sam, Mack, Gus. Mack
and Gus was heavy drinkers. Moster Sam would drink but he wasn't so bad. They wasn't mean to
the Negroes on the place. They had eight or nine families scattered around over their land.

"I farmed till I was eighteen then they made me foreman over the hands on the place I stayed
till after I married.

"I know Sam was in the war and come home cripple. He was in the war five years. He couldn't
get home from the war. I drove his hack and toted him to it. I toted him in the house. He said
he never rode in the war; he always had to walk and tote his baggage. His feet got frost bit
and raw. They never got well. He lived. They lived close to Goodman, Mississippi.

"I heard my mother say she was mixed with Creole Indian. She was some French. My father was
pure African. Now what am I?

"Ole mistress wasn't mean to none of us. She wrung my ears and talked to me. I minded her pretty
good.

"The children set on the steps to eat and about under the trees. Some folks kept their children
looking good. Some let em go. They fed em--set a big pot and dip em out greens. Give em a cup
of milk. We all had plenty coarse victuals. We all had to work. It done you no good to be fraid
er sweat in them days.

"I didn't know bout freedom and I didn't care bout it. They didn't give no land nor no mules
away as I ever know'd of.

"The Ku Klux never come on our place. I heard about em all the time. I seen em in the road.
They look like hants.

"I been farming all my life. I come here to farm. Better land and no fence law.

"I come to 'ply to the P.W.A. today. That is the very reason you caught me in town today."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Mary Crosby
                    1216 Oak Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76

"Good morning. I don't know anybody 'round here that was born in slavery times 'cept me. I
don't know exactly when I was born in Georgia but I can remember my mama said her old master,
Mat Fields, sent my father and all the other men folks to Arkansas the second year of the war.
After the war, I remember there was a colored man named Mose come from Mississippi to Georgia
and told the colored folks they could shake money off the trees in Mississippi. Of course they
was just ignorant as cattle and they believed him. I know I thought what a good time I would
have. I can remember seeing old master crying cause his colored folks all leaving, but Mose
emigrated all of us to Mississippi.

"He kept emigrating folks over there till he like to got killed. The white people give him
a stayaway and told him not to come back, but he sure did get some colored folks out of Georgia.

"I 'member they said the war was to free the niggers. They called it the Civil War. I never
did know why they called it that. I can't 'member things like I used to.

"My mother's old master's granddaughter, Miss Anne, had a baby that was six months old when
I was born and mama said old master come in and tell Miss Ann, 'I've got a new little nigger
for Mary Lou.' He said he was goin' to give her ten and that I was her first little nigger.
When we was both grown Mary Lou used to write to me once a year and say 'I claim you yet, Mary.'

"I 'member when Garfield was shot. That was the first time I ever heard of gangrene.

"Yes'm I have worked hard all my life. When I was in Mississippi I used to make as much as
ten dollars a week washin' and ironin'. But I'm not able to work now. The Welfare helps me some."

[HW: (COPY)] El Dorado Division FOLKLORE SUBJECTS (Ex-Slave) Mrs. Mildred Thompson Federal
Writers' Project Union County, Arkansas [TR: hand dated Nov. 6, 1936]

[TR: Ellen Crowley]

Ellen Crowley an old Negress of Jefferson county, known as "old Aunt Ellen" to both white and
colored people. She was quite a character; a slave during Civil War and lived in Mississippi.
She later married and moved to Arkansas.

Aunt Ellen was much feared and also respected by the colored race owing to the fact that she
could foretell the future and cast a spell on those she didn't like. This unusual talent "come
about" while on a white plantation as a nurse. She foretold of a great sorrow that would fall
on her white folks and in the year two children passed away. One day soon after she was being
teased by a small negro boy to whom she promptly put the 'curse' on and in later years he was
subject to "fits."

She said she was "purty nigh" 200 when asked her age, always slept in the nude, and on arising
she would say: "I didn't sleep well last night, the debil sit at my feet and worried my soul"
or vice versa "I had a good rest the Lord sit at my head and brought me peace."

She was immaculate about her person and clothes and always wore a red bandana around her head.

Her mania was to clean the yard. When asked about her marriage she would say: "I been married
seven times" but Jones, Brown and Crowley were the only husbands she could remember by name.
She said the other "four no count Negroes wasn't worth remembering."

She was ever faithful to those she worked for, and was known to walk ten and twelve miles to
see her white folks with whom she had work. Would come in and say: "Howdy, I'se come to stay
awhile. I'll clean the yard for my victuals and I can sleep on the floor." She would go on
her way in a few days leaving behind a clean yard and pleasant memories of a faithful servant.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Richard Crump
                    1801 Gaines Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 82

[HW: Father Takes a "Deadening"]

"I was born right here in Aberdeen, Mississippi about five miles from the town on the east
side of the Tom Bigbee River in Monroe County, Mississippi.

"My father's name was Richard Crump. My mother was named Emily Crump. My grandmother on my
father's side was named Susan Crump. My mother came from Middleton, Tennessee. But I don't
know nothing about any of her people. My father said he come from South Carolina when he was
a boy eight or ten years old. That was way before I was born. They brought him to Mississippi
from South Carolina.

"My father's master was old man Johnnie Crump. My mistress was named Nina Crump. That was Johnnie
Crump's wife. My mars had four boys to my remembrance. One was named Wess, one was named Rufe,
one was named Joe, and one was named Johnnie. He had a girl named Annie and one named Lulu.

"My mother was the mother of thirteen children. I am the onliest one living, that I know of.
The way they gwine with us now, I ain't goin' a be here long. Just got four dollars to pay
rent and bills and git somethin' to eat for a month. You don't git nothin' much when you git
the commodities--no grease to cook with.

"We never had no trouble much when I was coming along. My mars was a pretty good old man. He
didn't allow no overseer to whip his slaves. The overseer couldn't whip my old mother anyhow
because she was a kind of bully and she would git back in a corner with a hoe and dare him
in. And he wouldn't go in neither.

"My grandmother had three or four sons. One was name Nels Crump, another was named Miles and
another was named Henry and another Jim. She had two or three more but I can't think of them.
They died before I was old enough to know anything. Then she had two or three daughters. One
was named Lottie. She had another one but I can't think of her name. I was so little. All of
them are dead now. All of my people are dead but me. They are trying to find a sister of mine,
but I ain't found her yet. She oughter be down here by Forrest City somewheres. But there ain't
nobody here that I know about but me. And the way they're carryin' them now I ain't goin' to
be here long. All of them people you hear me talk about, they're supposed to be dead.

"I was born in 1858. At least the old man told me that. I mean my father of course. The first
thing I knowed anything about was picking cotton. I was a little bitty old fellow with a little
sack hangin' at my side. I was pickin' beside my mother. They would grab us sometimes when
we didn't pick right. Shake us and pull our ears.

"I didn't know anything about sellin' and buying. I never was sold.

"The next thing I remember was being told I was free. My daddy said old mars told them they
were free. I didn't hear him tell it myself. They come 'round on a Monday morning and told
papa and the rest that they were free as he was and that they could go if they wanted to or
they could stay, 'cause they were free as he was and didn't have no master no more, didn't
have no one to domineer over them no more.

"Right after freedom, my folks worked on old man Jim Burdyne's farm. That is the first place
I remember after freedom. Father taken a little deadening. You don't know what a deadening
is? That's a lease. He cleaned up some land. We boys were just gettin' so we could pick up
brush and tops of trees--and burn it, and one thing and another. Two years after the War was
over, I got big enough to plow. I was plowing when I was nine years old. We had three boys
and four girls older than me. The balance of them was born after freedom. We made crops on
shares for three years after freedom, and then we commenced to rent. Shares were one-third
of the cotton and one-fourth of the corn. They didn't pay everything they promised. They taken
a lot of it away from us. They said figures didn't lie. You know how that was. You dassent
dispute a man's word then. Sometimes a man would get mad and beat up his overseer and run him
away. But my daddy wouldn't do it. He said, 'Well, if I owe anything I'll pay it. I got a large
family to take care of.'

"I never got a chance to go to school any. There was too much work to do. I married when I
was twenty-one. I would go off and stay a month or two and come back. Never left home permanent
for a long while. Stayed 'round home till I was forty years old. I come to Arkansas in 1898.
I made a living by farming at first.

"I didn't shoot no craps. I belong to the church. I have belonged to the church about forty
years or more. I did play cords and shoot craps and things like that for years before I got
religion.

"I come to Little Rock in 1918 and been here ever since. I worked 'round here in town first
one thing and then another. Worked at the railroad and on like that.

"We used to vote right smart in Mississippi. Had a little trouble sometimes but it would soon
die down. I haven't voted since I been here. Do no good nohow. Can't vote in none of these
primary elections. Vote for the President. And that won't do no good. They can throw your ballot
out if they want to.

"I believe in the right thing. I wouldn't believe in anything else. I try to be loyal to the
state and the city. But colored folks don't have much show. Work for a man four or five years
and go back to him and he don't know nothin' about you. They soon forget you and a white man's
word goes far.

"I was able to work as late as 1930, but I ain't been no 'count since to do much work. I get
a pension for old age from the Welfare and commodities and I depend on that for a living. Whatever
they want to give me, I'll take it and make out with it. If there's any chance for me to git
a slave's pension, I wish they would send it to me. For I need it awful bad. They done cut
me way down now. I got heart trouble and high blood pressure but I don't give up.

"My mother sure used to make good ash cake. When she made it for my daddy, she would put a
piece of paper on it on top and another on the bottom. That would keep it clean. She made it
extra good. When he would git through, she would give us the rest. Sometimes, she wouldn't
put the paper on it because she would be mad. He would ask, 'No paper today?' She would say,
'No.' And he wouldn't say nothin' more.

"There is some of the meanest white people in the United States in Mississippi up there on
the Yellow Dog River. That's where the Devil makes meanness.

"There's some pretty mean colored folks too. There is some of them right here in Little Rock.
Them boys from Dunbar give me a lot of trouble. They ride by on their bicycles and holler at
us. If we say anything to them, they say, 'Shut up, old gray head.' Sometimes they say worse.
I used to live by Brother Love. Christmas the boys threw at the house and gave me sass when
I spoke to them. So I got out of that settlement. Here it is quiet because it is among the
white folks."

Interviewer: Mrs. Carol Graham, El Dorado Division Person interviewed: Zenia Culp Age: Over
80 [Jan 29 1938]

"Yas'm, my name is Zenia, Zenia Culp 'tis now since I married. My old master's name was Billy
Newton. Him and three more brothers come here and settled in this county years ago and Master
Billy settled this farm. I was born and raised here and ain't never lived nowheres else. I
used to be nurse girl and lived up at the big house. You know up there where Mr. John Dunbar's
widow lives now. And the family burying groun' is jus' a little south of the house where you
sees them trees and tomb stones out in the middle of the field.

"Master Billy's folks was so good to me and I sure thought a heap of young Master Billy. Believe
I told you I was the nurse girl. Well, young Master Billy was my special care. And he was a
live one too. I sure had a time keepin' up wid that young rascal. I would get him ready for
bed every night. In summer time he went barefoot like all little chaps does and course I would
wash his foots before I put him to bed. That little fellow would be so sleepy sometime that
he would say: 'Don't wash em, Zenia, jes' wet em.' Oh, he was a sight, young Master Billy was.

"Does you know Miss Pearl? She live there in El Dorado. She is young master's widow. Miss Pearl
comes out to see me sometime and we talks lots bout young Master Billy.

"Yas'm, I'se always lived here where I was born. Never moved way from de old plantation. Course
things is changed lots since the days when old Master Billy was livin'. When he went off to
the war he took most of the men black folks and the womens stayed home to take care of mistress
and the chillun.

"My husban' been dead a long, long time and I live here wid my son. His wife is gone from home
dis evenin'. So I thought I'd come out and pick off some peanuts jes' to git out in the sunshine
awhile. That's my son out there makin' sorghum. My daughter-in-law is so good to me. She treats
me like I was a baby.

"You asks me to tell you something bout slave days, and how we done our work then. Well, as
I tell you, my job was nurse girl and all I had to do was to keep up wid young Master Billy
and that wasn't no work tall, that was just fun. But while I'd be followin' roun' after him
I'd see how the others would be doin' things.

"When they gathered sweet potatoes they would dig a pit and line it with straw and put the
tatoes in it then cover them with straw and build a coop over it. This would keep the potatoes
from rotting. The Irish potatoes they would spread out in the sand under the house and the
onions they would hand up in the fence to keep them from rotting.

"In old Master Newton's day they didn' have ice boxes and they would put the milk and butter
and eggs in buckets and let em down in the well to keep em cool.

"Master's niggers lived in log houses down at de quarters but they was fed out of the big house.
I members they had a long table to eat off and kept hit scoured so nice and clean with sand
and ashes and they scoured the floors like that too and it made em so purty and white. They
made their mops cut of shucks. I always eat in the nursery with young Master Billy.

"They had big old fireplaces in Master's house and I never seen a stove till after the war.

"I member bein' down at the quarters one time and one of the women had the sideache and they
put poultices on her made out of shucks and hot ashes and that sho'ly did ease the pain.

"The pickaninnies had a time playin'. Seein' these peanuts minds me that they used to bust
the ends and put them on their ears for ear rings. Course Master Billy had to try it too, then
let out a howl cause they pinched.

"Lan', but them was good old days when Master Billy was alive."

Texarkana people, old and young, reverence this character, and obtain from him much valuable
information concerning the early life of this country. This ex-slave was freed when he was
fifteen years old, but continued to live in the same family until he was a man. He says: "All
de training an' advice I evah had come frum mah mistress. She wuz a beautiful Christian; if
I am anybody, I owe it to her. I nevah went to school a day in mah life; whut I know I absorbed
frum de white folks! Mah religion is De Golden Rule. It will take any man to heaben who follows
its teachings.

"Mah mahster wuz kilt in de battle fought at Poison Springs, near Camden. We got separated
in de skirmish an' I nevah did see him again. Libin' at that time wuz hard because dere wuz
no way to communicate, only to sen' messages by horseback riders. It wuz months befo' I really
knew dat mah mahster had been kilt, and where.

"Mr. Autrey bought mah mother when I wuz an infant, and gave us de protection an' care dat
all good slave owners bestowed on their slaves. I worshipped dis man, dere has nevah been anudder
like him. I sees him often in mah dreams now, an' he allus appears without food an' raiment,
jus' as de South wuz left after de war."

"I came heah when Texarkana wuz only three years old, jus' a little kindly village, where we
all knew each udder. Due to de location an' de comin' ob railroads, de town advanced rapidly.
Not until it wuz too late did de citizens realize whut a drawback it is to be on de line between
two states. Dis being Texarkana's fate, she has had a hard struggle overcoming dis handicap
for sixty-three years. Still dat State Line divides de two cities like de "Mason and Dixon
Line" divides the North an' South.

"Living on the Arkansas side of this city, Albert Cummins is naturally very partial to his
side. "The Arkansas side is more civilized", according to his version. "Too easy fo' de Texas
folks to commit a crime an' step across to Arkansas to escape arrest an' nevah be heard ob again."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Betty Curlett, Hazen, Arkansas Age: 66
[-- -- 1938]

"I can tell you all about my kin folks. My mama's owners was Mars John Moore and Miss Molly
Moore. They come from Virginia and brought Grandma Mahaley and Grandpa Tom.

"Mr. Daniel Johnson went to North Carolina and bought Alice and John and their family. When
he brought them to Mississippi, they come in a hack. It was snowing and cold. It took em so
long to came they take turns walkin'. Grandma was walking long wid the hack and somewhere she
cut through and climbed over a railin' fence. She lost her baby outer her quilts and went on
a mile fore she knowed bout it. She say, 'Lawd, Master Daniel, if I ain't lost my baby.' They
stopped the hack and she went back to see where her baby could be. She knowed where she got
out the hack and she knowed she had the baby then. Fore she got to the fence she clum over,
she seed her baby on the snow. She said the sun was warm and he was well wrop up. That all
what saved em. She shuck him round till she woke him up. She was so scared he be froze. When
he let out cryin' she knowed he be all right. She put him in the foot of the hack mong jugs
of hot water what they had to keep em warm. She say he never had a cold from it. Well, that
was John, my papa, what she lost in de snow. Grandma used to set and tell us that and way I
can member it was my own papa she be talkin' bout.

"Papa was raised up by the Johnson family and mama by the Moore family. Den Alice Moore had
em marry her and John Johnson. Their plantations joined, and joined Judge Reid's (or Reed's)
place. We all had a big time on them three farms. They was good to their niggers but Mr. ----
they said whooped his niggers awful heep.

"Ed Amick was Mars Daniel Johnson's overseer. He told him he wanted his slaves treated mighty
good and they was good. Yes ma'am, they was good to em!! We had a plenty to eat. Every Saturday
they killed a lamb, a goat or a yearlin' and divided up mong his folks and the niggers. Us
childen would kill a peafowl and they let us eat em. White folks didn't eat em. They was tender
seem like round the head.

"Miss Evaline was Mars Daniel's sister. She was a old maid. Miss Evaline, Aunt Selie old nigger
woman and Brittain old nigger man done nuthin' but raise chickens, geese, guineas, ducks, pigeons.
They had a few turkeys and peafowls all the time. When they stewed chicken it was stewed in
a big black pot they kept to cook fowls in. They fry chicken in a pot er grease then turn drap
sweet biscuit bread in. They put eggs in it, too. They call it marble cakes. Then they pour
sweet milk in the bottom grease and make good gravy. When they rendered up lard they always
made marble cakes. They cut marble cakes all kind er shapes and twisted em round like knots
and rings. They take em up in big pans big as dish pans.

"We had plenty to eat and plenty flannel and cotton check dresses. Regular women done our quiltin'
and made our dresses. She made our dresses plain waist, full gathered skirt and buttons down
the backs on our waist.

"I was named for Miss Betty Johnson. Mars Daniel bought me books. I slip and tear ABC's outen
every book he buy for me. Miss Betty say A-B-C-D; I say after her. She say, 'Betty, you ain't
lookin' on the book.' I say, 'Miss Betty, I hear Miss Cornelia's baby woke up. Agin Miss Betty--she
was my young mistress--ABC's me sayin' em long wid her. I say, 'Miss Betty, I smell ginger
bread, can't I go git a piece?' She say, 'Betty--I'm so sorry I name you fer me. I wish I named
Mary.' I say, 'Then you name Mary Betty an' give me nother name.' Miss Betty git me down agin
to sayin' the ABC's, I be lookin' off. She say, 'Betty, you goin' to be a idiot.' I say, 'That
what I wanter be--zactly what I wanter be.' I didn't know what a idiot was then.

"I took up crocheting. Miss Cornelia cut me some quilt pieces. She say 'Betty that's her talent'
bout me. Miss Betty say, 'If she goin' to be mine I want her to be smart.' Miss Mary lernt
my sister Mary fast.

"When I was bout fifteen I was goiner to the nigger school. I wanted to go to the white school
wid Miss Mag. Miss Betty say, 'Betty, that white woman would whoop you every day.' I take my
dinner in a bucket and go on wid Mary. I'd leave fore the teacher have time to have my lesson
and git in late. The teacher said, 'Betty, Miss Cornelia and Miss Betty say they want you to
be smart and you up an' run off and come in late, and do all sorts er ways. Ain't you shamed?'

"They had a big entertainment. Miss Betty learned me a piece to say--poetry. I could lern it
from sayin' it over wid Miss Betty. They bought me and Mary our fust calico dresses. I lack
to walked myself to death. I was so proud. It had two ruffles on the bottom of the skirt and
a shash tied at the waist behind. We had red hats wid streamers hanging down the back. The
dresses was red and black small checks. Mary lernt her piece at school. We had singing and
speeches and a big dinner at the school closin'.

"Mr. John Moore went to war and was killed at the beginnin' of the first battle soon as he
got there. They had a sayin, 'You won't last as long as John Moore when he went to war.'

"Mr. Criss Moore was kickin' a nigger boy. Old Miss say, 'Criss, quit kickin' him, you hurt
him.' He say, 'I ain't hurtin' him, I'm playin' wid him!' White boys played wid nigger boys
when they come round the house. Glad to meet up to get to play.

"Mr. Criss Moore, Jr. (John Moore's grandson) is a doctor way up North and so is Mr. Daniel
Johnson, Jr. One of em in Washington I think. I could ask Miss Betty Carter when I go back
to Mississippi.

"When I left Mississippi Mr. Criss hated to see me go. Mr. Johnson say, 'I wanted all our niggers
buried on our place.' He say to Jim, my husband, 'Now when she die you let me know and I'll
help bring her back and bury her in the old graveyard.' When my papa died Mr. Johnson had the
hearse come out and get him and take him in it to the graveyard. He was buried by mama and
nearly all the Johnson, Moore, and Reed (or Reid) niggers buried there. My husband is buried
here (Hazen, Arkansas) but he was a Curlett.

"Papa set out apple trees on the old Johnson place, still bearin' apples. The old farm place
is forty-eight miles from Tupelo and three miles from Houlka, Mississippi.

"My mother had eighteen children and I had sixteen but all mine dead now but three. Mama's
ma and grandpapa Haley had twenty-two children. Yes ma'am, they sho did have plenty to eat.
Mars Daniel say to his wife, 'Cornelia, feed my niggers.' That bout last he said when he went
off to war. Mars Green, Daniel, and Jimmie three brothers. Three Johnson brothers buried their
gold money in stone jars and iron cookin' pots fore they left and went to war.

"When the fightin' stopped, people was so glad they rung and rung the farm bells and blowed
horns--big old cow horns. When Mars Daniel come home he went to my papa's house and says, 'John,
you free.' He says, 'I been free as I wanter be whah I is.' He went on to my grandpa's house
and says, 'Toby, you are free!' He raised up and says, 'You brought me here frum Africa and
North Carolina and I goiner stay wid you long as ever I get sompin to eat. You gotter look
after me!' Mars Daniel say, 'Well, I ain't runnin' nobody off my place long as they behave.'
Purtnigh every nigger sot tight till he died of the old sets. Mars Daniel say to grandpa, 'Toby,
you ain't my nigger.' Grandpa raise up an' say, 'I is, too.'

"They had to work but they had plenty that made em content. We had good times. On moonlight
nights somebody ask Mars Daniel if they could have a cotton pile, then they go tell Mars Moore
and Judge Reid (or Reed). They come, when the moon peep up they start pickin'. Pick out four
or five bales. Then Mars Daniel say you come to the house. Ring the bell. Then we have a big
supper--pot of chicken, stew and sweet potatoes roasted. Have a wash pot full of molasses candy
to pull and all the goobers we could eat.

"Then we had three banjos. The musicians was William Word, Uncle Dan Porter, and Miles Porter.
Did we dance? Square dance. Then if somebody been wantin' to marry they step over the broom
and it be nounced they married. You can't get nobody--colored folks I mean--to step over a
broom; they say it bad luck. If it fall and they step over they step back. They say if somebody
sweep under your feet you won't marry that year. Folks didn't visit round much. They had some
place to go they went but they had to work. They work together and done mighty little--idle
vistin'. Folks took the knitting long visting lest it be Sunday.

"White women wouldn't nurse their own babies cause it would make their breast fall. They would
bring a healthy woman and a clean woman up to the house. They had a house close by. She would
nurse her baby and the white baby, too. They would feed her everything she wanted. She didn't
have to work cause the milk would be hot to give the babies. Dannie and my brother Bradford,
and Mary my sister and Miss Maggie nursed my mama. Rich women didn't nurse their babies, never
did, cause it would cause their breast to be flat.

"My papa was the last slave to die. Mama died twelve months fore he died. I was born after
freedom but times changed mighty little mama and papa said. Grandma learned me to cut doll
dresses and Miss Cornelia learned me to sew and learned Aunt Joe (a ex-slave Negro here in
town) to play Miss Betty's piano. She was their house girl. Yes ma'am, when I was small girl
she was bout grown. Aunt Joe is a fine cook. Miss Cornelia learnt her how. I could learned
to played too but I didn't want to. I wanted to knit and crochet and sew. Miss Cornelia said
that was my talent. I made wrist warmers and lace. Sister Mary would spin. She spun yarn and
cotton thread. They made feather beds. Picked the geese and sheared the sheep. I got my big
feather bed now.

"When I married, Miss Betty made my weddin' dress. We had a preacher marry us at my home. My
mama give me to Miss Betty and they raised me. I was the weaslingest one of her children. She
give me to Miss Betty. Now she wants me to come back. I think I go back Christmas and stay.
Miss Betty is old and feeble now. I got three children living here in Hazen now. All I got left.

"The men folks did all go off, white and black, and vote. I don't know how they voted. Now,
honey, you know I don't know nothing bout voting.

"Times is so changed. Conditions so changed that I don't know if the young generation is improved
much. They learn better but it don't do em no more good. It seems like it is the management
that counts. That is the reason my grandpa didn't want to leave Mars Daniel Johnson's. He was
a good manager and Miss Betty is a good manager. We don't know how to manage and ain't got
much to manage wid. That the way it looks to me. Some folks is luckier than others."

Little Rock District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Irene Robertson [HW: Yankees Stole
Food] Subject: History--Slavery Days Subject: Musical Instrument Story:--Information [TR: Additional
topic moved from subsequent page.] [TR: Hand dated 11-14-36]

This information given by: Betty Curlett Place of Residence: Hazen, Arkansas Occupation: Washwoman
Age: 67 [TR: Personal information moved from bottom of first page.]

"My mother said during the war and in slavery times they ate out of wooden spoons and bowls
they made." They cooked a washpot full of peas for a meal or two and roasted potatoes around
the pot in the ashes. They always cooked hams and greens of all kinds in the big iron pots
for there were so many of them to eat and in slavery times the cook, cooked for her family
in with what she cooked for the Master. They made banks of dirt, sand, leaves and plank and
never washed the sweet potatoes till they went to cook them. They had rows of banks in the
garden or out behind some of the houses, and had potatoes like that all winter and in the spring
to bed.

They saved the ashes and put them in a barrel and poured water over them and saved the drip--lye--and
made soap or corn hominy--made big pots of soap and cooked pots full of lye hominy. They carried
corn to the mill and had it ground into meal and flour made like that too. The women spun,
wove, and knitted. The men would hunt between crop times. If the slaves were caught stealing,
the Patty Row would catch him and his master whip him.

My Grandpas and Grandmas and Mamma's Master was John Moore. Mr. John said before his daughter
and wife should go to the washtub he would wade blood saddle-skirt deep. He set out to war.
Went to Vicksburg and was killed.

His wifes name was Mrs. Elisabeth and his daughters name was Miss Inez. They say thats where
the saying "He won't last longer than John Moore did when he went to war" sprang up but I don't
know about that part of it for sure.

Grandma Becky said when the Yankees came to Mrs. Moores house and to Judge Rieds place they
demanded money but they told them they didn't have none. They stole and wasted all the food
clothes, beds. Just tore up what they didn't carry with them and burned it in a pile. They
took two legs of the chickens and tore them apart and threw them down on the ground, leaving
piles of them to waste.

Song her Mother and Grandmother sang:

  Old Cow died in the fork of the branch
      Baby, Ba, Ba.
  Dock held the light, Kimbo skinned it.
      Ba, Ba, Ba.
  Old cow lived no more on the ranch and frank no more from
  branch, Kinba a pair of shoes, he sewed from the old cows hide
  he had tanned.
      Baby, Ba, Ba.

Musical Instrument

"The only musical instrument we had was a banjo. Some made their banjos. Take a bucket or pan
a long strip of wood. 3 horse hairs twisted made the base string. 2 horsehairs twisted made
the second string. 1 horse hair twisted made the fourth and the fifth string was the fine one,
it was not twisted at all but drawn tight. They were all bees waxed."

2. Place and date of birth--Born in Haywood County, Tennessee in 1862.

3. Family--

4. Places lived in, with dates--Tennessee until 1883. From 1883 until now, in Arkansas.

5. Education, with dates--He took a four-years' course at Haywood after the war.

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates--Minister

7. Special skills and interest--Church work.

8. Community and religious activities--Preacher

9. Description of informant--

10. Other points gained in interview--His father was a slave and he tells lots of slavery.

[HW: Master Educates Slave]

Text of Interview (Unedited)

"I was born in 1862, September first. I got that off the Bible. My father, he belonged to a
doctor and the doctor, he was a kind of a wait man to him. And the doctor learnt him how to
read and write. Right after the War, he was a teacher. He was ready to be a teacher before
most other people because he learnt to read and write in slavery. There were so many folks
that came to see the doctor and wanted to leave numbers and addresses that he had to have some
one to 'tend to that and he taught my father to read and write so that he could do it.

"I was born in Tennessee, in Haywood County. My father was born in North Carolina, so they
tell me. He was brought to Tennessee. He was a slave and my mother was a slave. His name was
Washington Curry and my mother's name was Eliza Douglass before she married. Her master was
named John Douglass and my father's master was named T.A. Curry, Tom Curry some folks called him.

"I don't know just how many slaves Tom Curry owned. Lemme see. There was my daddy, his four
brothers, his five sisters. My father's father had ten children, and my father had the same
number--five boys and six girls. Ten of us lived for forty years. My mother had ten living
children when she died in 1921. Since '21, three girls died. My father died in 1892.

"My father's master had around a hundred slaves. Douglass was a richer man than my father's
master. I suspect he had two hundred slaves. He was my mother's father as well as her master.
I know him. He used to come to our house and he would give mama anything she wanted. He liked
her. She was his daughter.

"My father's father--I can't remember what his name was. I know his mother was Candace. I never
did see his father but I saw my grandma. He was dead before I was born. My mother's mother
was named Malinda Evans. Only one thing I remember that was remarkable about her. Her husband
was a free man named Mike Evans. He come from up North and married her in slave time and he
bought her. He was a fine carpenter. They used to hire him out to build houses. He was a contractor
in slave time. I remember him well.

"After the War, he used to have white men getting training for the carpenter's training under
him. He was Grandma Evans' husband. He wasn't my father's father. My father was born before
Grandma Evans was freed. All the rest of them were born afterward. They sold her to him but
the children all belonged to the Douglasses. He probably paid for her on time and they kept
the children that was born.

"The doctor was good to my father. Way after freedom, he was our family doctor. He was at my
father's bedside when father died. He's dead now.

"My father was a carpenter and a wait man (waiter). He was a finished carpenter. He used to
make everything 'round the house. Sometimes he went off and worked and would bring the money
back to his master, and his master would give him some for himself.

"My mother worked 'round the house. She was a servant. I don't know that she ever did the work
in the field. My daddy just come home every Saturday night. My father and mother always belonged
to different masters in slavery time. The Douglasses and the Currys were five or six miles
apart. My father would walk that distance on Saturday night and stay there all day Sunday and
git up before day in the morning Monday so that he would be back home Monday morning in time
for his work. I remember myself when we moved away. That's when my memory first starts.

"I could see that old white woman come out begging and saying, 'Uncle Washington, please don't
carry Aunt Lize away.' But we went on away. When we got where we was going, my mother made
a pallet on the floor that night, and the three children slept on the pallet on the floor.
Nothing to eat--not a bite. I went to bed hungry, and you know how it is when you go to bed
hungry, you can't sleep. I jerk a little nod, and then I'd be awake again with the gnawing
in my stomach. One time I woke up, and there was a big light in the house, and father was working
at the table, and mama reached over and said, 'Stick your head back under the cover again,
you little rascal you.' I won't say what I saw. But I'll say this much. We had the finest breakfast
the next morning that I ever ate in all my life.

"I used to hear my people talk about pateroles but I don't reckon I can recall now what they
said. There is a man in Washington named Bob Sanders. He knows everything about slavery, and
politics too. He used to be a regular politician. He is about ninety years old. They came there
and got him about two year ago and paid him ten dollars a day and his fare. Man came up and
got him and carried him to the capitol in his car. They were writing up something about Arkansas
history.

"I have been married fifty-seven years. I married in 1881. My wife was a Lemons. I married
on February tenth in Tennessee at Stanton. Nancy Lemons.

"I went to public school a little after the war. My wife and I both went to Haywood after we
were married. After we married and had children, we went. I took a four-years' course there
when it was a fine institution. It's gone down now.

"I was the oldest boy. We had two mules. We farmed on the halves. We made fifteen bales of
cotton a year. Never did make less than ten or twelve.

"I have been in the ministry fifty-three years. I was transferred to Arkansas in 1883 in the
conference which met at Humboldt. My first work here was in Searcy in 1884.

"I think the question of Negro suffrage will work itself out. As we get further away from the
Civil War and the reconstruction, it will be less and less opposition to the Negro's voting.
You can see a lot of signs of that now.

"I don't know about the young people. They are gone wild. I don't know what to say about them.

"I think where men are able to work I think it is best to give them work. A man that is able
to work ought to be given work by the government if he can't get it any other way."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Lyttleton Dandridge
                    2800 W. Tenth Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80

"I was told I was born in '57 in East Carroll Parish, Louisiana.

"Oh, I can remember before the War broke out. Yes ma'am, I had good owners. Old master and
mistress was named James Railey and Matilda Railey. I called her mistress.

"I remember one time my father carried me to Natchez on Christmas to spend with his people.
His parents were servants on a plantation near Natchez.

"I remember two shows I saw. They was the Daniel Rice shows. They was animal shows but they
had em on a boat, kind of a flatboat. We didn't have trains and things like that--traveled
on the big waters.

"I remember when we refugeed to Texas in '63. They raised tobacco there.

"We got free in '65 and the Governor or somebody ordered all the owners to take all the folks
back that wanted to go.

"All the young folks, they had them in Tyler, Texas makin' bullets. My father had the care
of about fifty youngsters makin' bullets.

"Old master had two plantations in Louisiana and three in Mississippi. He was a large slaveholder.

"When we got back to Louisiana from Texas, ever'thing was the same except where the levees
had been cut and overflowed the land.

"Old master died before the War broke out and my mistress died in '67.

"My father died in Texas. That left my mother a widow. She spent about two weeks at the old
home place in Louisiana. She pulled up then and went to Natchez to my father's people. She
made two crops with my young master. His name was Otie Railey. Help her? Well, I was comin'.
I had one brother and one sister.

"In '68 she worked with a colored man on the shares.

"I started to school in '67. A colored man come in there and established a private school.
I went in '67, '68, and '69 and then I didn't go any more till '71 and '72. I got along pretty
well in it. I know mine from the other fellows. I can write and any common business I can take
care of.

"We had two or three men run off and joined the Yankees. One got drowned fore he got there
and the other two come back after freedom.

"My mother worked for wages after freedom. She got three bales of cotton for her services and
mine and she boarded herself.

"In '74 she rented. I still stayed with her. She lived with me all her life and died with me.

"I come over to Arkansas the twenty-third day of December in 1916. Worked for Long-Bell Lumber
Company till they went down. Then I Just jobbed around. I can still work a little but not like
I used to.

"I used to vote Republican when I was interested in politics but I have no interest in it now.

"The younger generation is faster now than they was in my time. They was more constrictions
on the young people. When I was young I had a certain hour to come in at night. Eight o'clock
was my hour--not later than that. I think the fault must be in the times but if the parents
started in time they could control them.

"I remember one time a cow got after my father and he ran, but she caught up with him. He fell
down and she booed him in the back. My grandfather come up with a axe and hit her in the head.
She just shook her head and went off.

"Outside of my people, the best friend I ever met up with was a white man."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Ella Daniels
                    1223 W. Eleventh Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 74, or over

[HW: Food Rationed]

"I was born in North Carolina, in Halifax County, in the country near Scotland Neck. My mother's
name was Nellie Doggett. Her name was Hale before she married. My father's name was Tom Doggett.
I never did see any of my grand people.

"My mother's master was named Lewis Hale. He was a farmer. He was fairly good himself but the
overseers wasn't. They have mistreated my mother. All I know is what I heard, of course; I
wasn't old enough to see for myself. My mother was a field hand. She worked on the farm. My
father did the same thing.

"My father and mother belonged to different masters. I forgot now who my father said he belonged
to. My father didn't live on the same plantation with my mother. He just came and visited her
from time to time.

Food

"Sometimes they didn't have any food to eat. The old missis sometimes saw that my mother's
children were fed. My mother's master was pretty good to her and her children, but my father's
master was not. Food was issued every week. They give molasses, meal, a little flour, a little
rice and along like that.

House

"My mother and father lived in old weatherboard houses. I don't know whether all of the slaves
lived in weatherboarded houses or not. But I nursed the children and had to go from one house
to the other and I know several of them lived in weatherboarded houses. Most of the houses
had two rooms. The food that was kept by the slaves, that is the rations given them, was kept
in the kitchen part of the house.

Breeding

"I don't know of any cases where slaves were compelled to breed but I have heard of them. I
don't know the names of the people. Just remember hearing talk about them.

Freedom Comes

"My mother and father never found out they were free till April 1865. Some of them were freed
before then. I don't know how they found it out, but I heard them talking about it.

Right after Freedom

"Right after freedom, my father and mother worked right on in the same place just like they
always did. I reckon they paid them, I don't know. They did what they wanted to.

Patrollers, Ku Klux, and Reconstruction

"I remember the Ku Klux. They used to come and whip the niggers that didn't have a pass. I
think them was pateroles though. There was some people too who used to steal slaves if they
found them away from home, and then they would sell them. I don't know what they called them.
I just remember the Ku Klux and the pateroles.

"The Ku Klux were the ones that whipped the niggers that they caught out without a pass. I
don't remember any Ku Klux whipping niggers after the War because they were in politics.

Voters and Officeholders

"I have heard of Negroes voting and holding office after the War. I wasn't acquainted with
any of them except a man named Kane Gibbs and another named Cicero Barnes. I heard the old
people talking about them. I don't know what offices they held. They lived in another county
somewhere.

Life Since Emancipation

"I went from North Carolina to Louisiana, and from Louisiana here. They had it that you could
shake trees out in Louisiana and the money would fall off. They had some good land out there
too. One acre would make all you wanted--corn or anything else. That was a rich land. But I
don't know--I don't care what you had or what you owned when you left there, you had to leave
it there. Never would give you no direct settlement or pay you anything; that is, pay you anything
definite. Just gave you something from time to time. Whatever you had you had to leave it there.

Occupational Experiences

"I used to work in the field when I was able. That was when I was in the country. When I came
to the city I usually did washing and ironing. Now I can't do anything. All the people I used
to work for is dead. There was one woman in particular. She was a good woman, too. I don't
have any help at all now, except my son. He has a family of his own--wife and seven children.
Right now, he is cut off and ain't making nothing for himself nor nobody else. But I thank
God for what I have because things could be much worse."

Interviewer's Comment

Here again, there is a confusion of patrollers with Ku Klux. It seems to point to a use of
the word Ku Klux before the War. Of course, it is clear that the Ku Klux Klan operated after
the War.

Ella Daniels' age is given as seventy-four on her insurance policy, and I have placed that
age on the first page of this story in the heading. But three children were born after her
and before the close of the War. She says they were born two years apart. Allowing that the
youngest was born, in 1864, the one next to her would have been born in 1860, and she would
have been born in 1858. This seems likely too because she speaks of nursing the children and
going from house to house (page two) and must have been quite a child to have been able to
do that. Born in 1858, she would have been seven years old in 1865 and would have been able
to have been doing such nursing as would have been required of her for two years probably.
So it appears to me that her age is eighty, but I have recorded in the heading the same age
decided upon for insurance.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mary Allen Darrow, Forrest City, Arkansas
Age: 74

"I was born at Monticello, Arkansas at the last of the Cibil (Civil) War. My parents' names
was Richard and Ann Allen. They had thirteen children. Mother was a house girl and papa a blacksmith
and farmer.

"My great-grandma and grandpa was killed in Indian Nation (Alabama) by Sam and Will Allen.
They was coming west long 'fo'e the war from one of the Carolinas. I disremembers which they
told me. Great-grandpa was a chief. They was shot and all the children run but they caught
my Grandma Evaline and put her in the wagon and brought her to Monticello, Arkansas. They fixed
her so she couldn't get loose from them. She was a little full-blood Indian girl then. They
got her fer my great-grandpa a wife. He seen her and thought she was so pretty.

"She was wild. She wouldn't eat much else but meat and raw at that. She had a child 'fo'e ever
she'd eat bread. They tamed her. Grandpa's pa that wanted the Indian wife was full-blood African.
Mama was little lighter than 'gingercake' color.

"My Indian grandma was mean. I was feard of 'er. She run us down and ketch us and whoop us.
She was tall slender woman. She was mean as she could be. She'd cut a cat's head off fer no
cause er tall. Grandpa was kind. He'd bring me candy back if he went off. I cried after him.
I played with his girl. We was about the same size. Her name was Annie Mathis. He was a Mathis.
He was a blacksmith too at Monticello and later he bought a farm three and one-half miles out.
I was raised on a farm. Papa died there. I washed and done field work all my life. Grandma
married Bob Mathis.

"Our owner was Sam and Lizzie Allen. William Allen was his brother. I think Sam had eight children.
There was a Claude Allen in Monticello and some grandchildren, Eva Allen and Lent Allen. Eva
married Robert Lawson. I lived at Round Pond seventeen or eighteen years, then come to Forrest
City. I been away from them Allen's and Mathis' and Gill's so long and 'bout forgot 'em. They
wasn't none too good to nobody--selfish. They'd make trouble, then crap out of it. Pack it
on anybody. They wasn't none too good to do nothing. Some of 'em lazy as ever was white men
and women. Some of 'em I know wasn't rich--poor as 'Jobe's stucky.' I don't know nothing 'bout
'em now. They wasn't good.

"I was a baby at freedom and I don't know about that nor the Ku Klux. Grandpa started a blacksmith
shop at Monticello after freedom.

"My pa was a white man. Richard Allen was mama's husband.

"Me and my husband gats ten dollars from the Old Age Pension. He is ninety-six years old. He
do a little about. I had a stroke and ain't been no 'count since. He can tell you about the
Cibil War."

Interviewer's Comment

I missed her husband twice. It was a long ways out there but I will see him another time.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Alice Davis
                    1700 Vaugine Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81

"I was born in Mississippi. My mistress was Jane Davis. She raised me. She owned my mother too.

"When Miss Jane's husband died, he willed the niggers to his childun and Mandy Paine owned
me then. When I was one month old they said I was so white Mandy Paine thought her brother
was my father, so she got me and carried me to the meat block and was goin' to cut my head
off. When the childun heard, they run and cried, 'Mama's goin' to kill Harriet's baby.' Old
mistress, Jane Davis, heard about it and she come and paid Miss Jane forty dollars for me and
carried me to her home, and I slep right in the bed with her till the war ceasted."

"Her childun was grown and they used to come by and say, 'Ma, why don't you take that nigger
out of your bed?' and she'd reach over and pat me and say, 'This the only nigger I got.'

"I stayed there two or three years after freedom. I didn't know what free meant. Big childun
all laugh and say, 'All niggers free, all niggers free.' And I'd say, 'What is free?' I was
lookin' for a man to come.

"I worked in the house and in the field. I had plenty chances to go to school but I didn't
have no sense.

"My mother was sold to nigger traders and I never did see her again. I always say I never had
no mother, and I never did know who my father was.

"I've worked hard since I got to be a women. I never been the mother of but three childun.
Me and my boy stay together.

"I had a happy time when I lived with Miss Jane, but I been workin' ever since."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Charlie Davis
                    100 North Plum, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76

"They said I was born in 1862, the second day of March, in Little Rock.

"I 'member the War. I 'member the bluecoats. I knowed they was fightin' but I didn't know what
about.

"My old master was killed in the War. I don't know his name, I just heered 'em call him old master.

"I know old missis kept lookin' for him all durin' the War and looked for him afterward. As
long as I could understand anything she was still lookin'.

"Far as I know, my parents stayed with old missis after the War.

"I 'member my father hired me out when I was a little boy. They treated, me good.

"Never have done anything 'cept farm work. I'm failin' now. Hate to say so but I found out I am.

"I never did want to go away from here. I could a went, but I think a fellow can do better
where he is raised. I have watched the dumb beasts go off with others and see how they was
treated, so I never did crave to go off from home. I have knowed people have went away and
they'd bring 'em back dead, and I'd say to myself, 'I wonder how he died?' I've studied it
over and I've just made myself satisfied.

"I went to school some but I was the biggest help the old folks had and they kept me workin'."

Interviewer: Watt McKinney
Person Interviewed: D. Davis
                    R.F.D., six miles north of Marvell, Arkansas
Age: 85

Uncle D. Davis, an ex-slave, 85 years of age lives some miles north of Marvell, Arkansas with
a widowed daughter on a small farm the daughter owns. Uncle D himself also owns a nice little
farm some distance further up the road and which he rents out each year since he is no longer
able to tend the land. This old negro, now old and bent from years of work and crippled from
the effects of rheumatism hobbles about with the assistance of a crutch and a cane. His mind
however is very clear and his recollection keen. As I sat with him on the porch of his daughter's
home he told me the following story:

"Yes Sir, Mr. McKinney, I has been in Phillips County fer pas forty-five years and I is now
pas eighty-five. I wuz a grown en settled man when I fust cum here en hed chillun nigh bout
growd. Dats how cum me ter com here on er count of one of my boys. Dis boy he cum befo I did
en hed done made one crop en dat boy fooled me ober here from Mississippi. Yo know how dese
young bucks is, allus driftin er roun en he hed done drifted rite down dere below Marvell on
de Cypress Bayou, en war wukin fer Mr. Fred Mayo when he writ me de letter ter cum ober here.
I guess dat yo has heard of Mr. Fred Mayo dat owned de big plantation dere close ter Turner.
Well dat is de man whut ay boy wuz wid and atter I cum I jined up wid Mr. Mayo en stayed wid
him fer two years en I wud er ben wid him fer good I rekkin iffen I hadn't wanter buy me er
place of my own, kase Mr. Fred Mayo he wuz a nathal good man en treted all he hands fair.

"When I cided ter git me er little place of my own, I went en got quainted wid Mr. Marve Carruth
kase he hed er great name wid de niggers, en all de niggers in dem days dey went ter Mr. Carruth
fer ter git de advice, en Mr. Carruth he hoped me ter git de place up de road whut is mine
yit. Dere neber wuz no white man whut wuz no better dan Mr. Marve Carruth. No Sir dat is a fac.

"Yo see, Capn, I wuz borned en raised in de hills of Mississippi, in Oktibbawa County not so
fer frum Starkville, en dat wuz a ole country time I hed got grown en de lan hit wuz gittin
powful thin, en when I cumed ter dis state en seen how much cotton de folks mekin on de groun,
en how rish de lan, I jist went crazy ober dis country en stayed rite here en mobed my fambly
rite off. Folkses hed cotton piled up all er round dey houses en I cided rite off dat dis war
gwine ter be my home den.

"My ole Marster wuz Tom Davis en Capn dere warnt never no finer man whut ever libed dan Marse
Tom. Marse Tom wuz lubed by ebery nigger dat he hed, en Marse Tom sho hed a passel of em. He
had bettern two-hundred head en de las one dey crazy bout Marse Tom Davis. He war rather old
frum my fust riccolection of im, en he neber libed meny years atter de war. Marse Tom he owned
a grete heap er lan. His lan hit stretch out fer God knows how fer en den too he hed de big
mill whut runned wid de water wheel whar dey saw de lumber en grine de meal en de flour. Dey
neber bought no flour en dem days kase dey raised de wheat on de place, en all de meat en nigh
bout ebery thing whut dey hed er need of. Marse Tom he tuk de best kine er care of his slabe
people en he neber blebe in buyin er sellin no niggers. Dat he didn't. He neber wud sell er
one, en he neber did buy but three. Dat is er fac, Capn, en one of dem three whut he bought
wuz "Henry" whut wuz my own pappy, en he buyed Henry frum Mr. Spence kase Henry hed done got
married ter Malindy, whut wuz my mammy. Dat is whut my Mammy en Pappy dey bofe tole me.

"Marse Tom he neber jine de army kase he too old when de war brek out, but Marse Phil he jined
up. Marse Phil dat war Marse Tom's son, en de onliest boy dat Ole Marster en Ole Mis hed, en
dey jist hed one mo chile en dat wuz de girl, Miss Rachel, en atter de war ober Miss Rachel
she married Capn Dan Travis whut cum from Alabama. Ole Marster he neber laked Capn Dan er bit,
en he jes bucked en rared er bout Miss Rachel gwine ter git married ter dat Capn, but hit neber
done him no good ter cut up kase Ole Mis she sided wid Miss Rachel, en den too Miss Rachel
she hab er head of her own en she know her Pa aint gwine ter stop her. Marse Tom he didn't
lak Capn Dan kase de Capn he er big sport, en mighty wild, en lub he whiskey too well, en den
he a gamblin man besides dat, do he sho war a fine lookin gentman.

"Whilst Marse Tom he too old ter jine up wid de army, he hired him er man ter fite fer him
in his place jes de same, en him en Ole Mis dey neber want Marse Phil ter jine up, en sey dey
gwine ter hire er man fer ter tek Marse Phil's place so he won't hatter go, but Marse Phil
he sey he gwine ter do he own fitin, en eben do he Ma en Pa dey cut up right smart bout Marse
Phil goin ter de war, he up en jine jes de same. Marse Phil he neber wuz sich a stout, healthy
pussen, en he always sorter sikly, en it warnt long fore he tuk down in de camp wid sum kine
er bad spell er sikness en died. Dat wuz sho tuf on Marse Tom en de Ole Mis fer dem ter lose
Marse Phil, kase dey put er heap er sto by dat boy, him bein de onliest son dat dey got, en
day so tached ter im. Hit mighty nigh broke dem ole peoples up.

"No Sir, Capn, I betcha dat dere warnt airy uther er slabe-owning white man ter be foun dat
wuz er finer man, er dat was mo good ter he niggers dan Marse Tom Davis. Now jes tek dis, dere
wuz "Uncle Joe" whut wuz my grand-pappy, en he wuz jes bout de same age as Marse Tom, en dey
growed up ter gedder, en dey tole hit dat Marse Tom's pappy git "Uncle Joe" when he war jes
a boy frum de speckle-lady (speculator) fer er red hankerchief, dats how cheap he git im en,
dat rite off he gib im ter Marse Tom, en atter Marse Tom git up en growd ter be er man, en
he pappy died en lef him all de lan en slabes, en den atter er lot mo years pas, en Uncle Joe
done raise Marse Tom seben chillun, den Marse Tom he up en sot Uncle Joe free, en gib him er
home en forty acres, en sum stock kase Uncle Joe done been good en fathful all dem years, en
raise Marse Tom all dem seben chillun, en one of dem seben wuz my own mammy.

"Capn, aint yo eber heard tell of de speckle-ladies? (speculators) Well, I gwine ter tell yo
who dey wuz. Dey wuz dem folkses whut dealed in de niggers. Dat is whut bought em, en sole
em, en dey wud be gwine round thru de country all de time wid a grete gang er peoples bofe
men en womens, er tradin, en er buyin, en er sellin. Hit wuz jes lak you mite sey dat dey wud
do wid er gang er mules. Jist befo dese here speckle-ladies wud git ter er town er plantation
whar dey gwine ter try ter do sum bizness lak tradin er sich matter, dey stop de crowd long
side er creek er pond er water en mek em wash up en clean up good lak, en comb em up rite nice,
en mek de wimmens wrap up dey heads wid some nice red cloth so dey all look in good shape ter
de man whut dey gwine try ter do de bizness wid. Dats zackly de way dey do Capn, jes lak curryin
en fixin up mules fer ter sell, so dey look bettern dey actually is.

"Whilst Marse Tom Davis hed oberseers hired ter look atter de farmin of de lan, he hed his
own way er doin de bizness, kase he know dat all he niggers is good wukkers, en dat he kin
pend on em, so de fust of ebery week he gib each en ebery single man er fambly er task fer
ter do dat week, en atter dat task is done den dey fru wuk fer dat week en kin den ten de patches
whut he wud gib dem fer ter raise whut dey want on, en whut de slabes raise on dese patches
dat he gib em wud be deres whut-sum-eber hit wud be, cotton er taters er what, hit wub be,
dey own, en dey cud sell hit en hab de money fer demselves ter buy whut dey want.

"Marse Tom he wud ride out ober de place at least once a week en always on er Sattidy mornin,
en ginerally he wud pass de word out mongst de folkses fer em all ter cum ter de big house
er Sattidy atter noon fer er frolic. Ebery pussen on de place frum de littlest chile ter de
oldest man er woman wud clean dey selves up en put on dey best clo's for ter "go befo de King",
dats whut us called it. All wud gather in bak of de big house under de big oak trees en Marse
Tom he wud cum out wid he fiddle under he arm, yo kno Marse Tom he war a grete fiddler, en
sot hisself down in de chere whut Uncle Joe done fotched fer im, en den he tell Uncle Joe fer
ter go git de barrel er whiskey en he wud gib em all er gill er two so's dey cud all feel rite
good, en den Marse Tom he start dat fiddle playin rite lively en all dem niggers wid dance
en hab de bes kin er frolic, en Marse Tom he git jes es much fun outen de party as de niggers
demselves. Dats de kine er man whut Marse Tom wuz.

"I tell yo, Capn, my marster he sho treated his slabes fair. Dey all draw er plenty rations
once ebery week en iffen dey run out tween times dey cud always git mo, en Marse Tom tell em
ter git all de meal en flour at de mill eny time dat dey need hit. Dats rite, Capn, en I sho
tells dis fer de truf, en dat is I say dat iffen all de slabe owning white folks lak Marse
Tom Davis, den dere wudn't ben no use er freedom fer de darkies, kase Marse Tom's slabes dey
long ways better off wid him in dey bondage dan dey wuz wid out im when dey sot free en him
dead en gone.

"At Chrismus time on Marse Tom's place dey wud hab de fun fer er week er mo, wid no wuk gwine
on at all. De candy pullin, en de dances wid be gwine on nigh bout constant, en ebery one gits
er present frum de marster.

"All endurin of de war times, Marse Tom he neber raised no cotton er tall but instid he raised
de wheat, en de corn en hogs fer de Confedrits, en de baggage waggins wud cum from time ter
time fer de loads of flour, en meal en meat dat he wud sen ter de army. De Yankees sumhow dey
missed us place en neber did fin hit, en do de damage er bruning [TR: burning?] en sich dat
I is heard dat dey done in places in other parts of de state. We all heard one time dat de
Yankees wuz close er roun en wuz on de way ter burn Marse Tom's mill but dey got on de wrong
road en day neber did git ter our place, en us sho wuz proud er dat too. Yit en still attar
de war ober, Marse Tom, he had bout four hundred bales er cotton on han at de barn en de Yankee
govment dey sho tuk dat en didn't pay him er bit fer dat cotton. I knows dat ter be er fac.

"I members de war rail well, kase ye see, I wuz bout twelve year old when hit ober. En de last
two er three years of de trubble I wuz big enuf ter be doin sum wuk, so dey tuk me in de big
house fer ter be er waitin boy round de house, en I slept in dar too on er pallit on de floor,
en er lot er times de Calvary sojers wud stop at Marse Tom's en spen de nite, en I wud be layin
on de pallit but wudn't be sleep, en I cud hear dem talkin ter Marse Tom, en Marster he wud
ax dem how de fite cumin on, en iffen dey whippin de Yankees, en de Calvary sojers dey say
dat dey whippin de Yankees ebery day en killin em out, en Marse Tom he sey "Yo is jes er big
lie, how cum yo runnin er way iffen yo whippin dem Yankees? Dem Yankees is atter yo, en yo
is runnin frum em dats whut yo doin. Yo know yo aint whippin no Yankees kase if yo wuz yo wud
be atter dem rite now stid dem atter yo". No Sir, dem Calvary sojers cudn't fool Marse Tom.

"Yes sir, I tell yo, Capn, de slabes dey fared well wid Marse Tom Davis, en dere wudn't neber
ben no war ober de slabery question iffen every body ben lak Marse Tom. All his peoples wuz
satisfied en dey didn't eben know what de Yankees en de Southern white folks wuz fitin er bout,
kase dey wuzn't worried bout no freedom, yit en still atter de freedom cum dey wuz glad ter
git hit, but atter dey git hit dey don't know whut ter do wid hit. En atter de bondage lifted,
Marse Tom he called em all up en tell em dat dey free es he is, en dey kin lebe if dey want
to, but dere wuzn't nairy nigger lef de place. Dey ebery one stayed, en I spect dat er lot
of dem Davis niggers is rite dere till yit on dat same lan wid whoever hit belongs to.

"When er slabe man en woman got married in dose days dere wuzn't no sich thing as er license
fer dem. All dey hed ter do wuz ter git de permit frum de Marster en den ter start in ter libbin
wid each udder. Atter de freedom do, all er dem whut wuz married en libbin wid one er nudder
wuz giben er slip ter sho dat dey married, en ter mek dey marriage legal.

"Atter freedom cum ter de darkies, en de trubble all ober in de fitin, en atter de surrender,
Marse Tom he hed his whole place lined out by de surveyor en marked off in plots er groun,
en he sell er plot er forty acres ter ebery fambly dat he hed, on de credik too, en sell em
de stock wid de place so dey kin all hab er home, en dey all set in ter buy de lan frum Marse
Tom, but hit warnt long atter dat till Marse Tom en ole Mis bofe died, en dat wuz when Capn
Dan Travis, Miss Rachel's husband, he taken charge of de bizness en broke all de contracts
dat de darkies hed made wid Marse Tom, an dat wuz de las of de lan buyin on dat place, en dat
wuz de startin of de niggers er leavin de Davis place, wid Capn Dan Travis in charge, en Marse
Tom gone. But Capn Dan he en Miss Rachel didn't keep dey place long atter her Pa dead, kase
de Capn he too wild, en he soon fooled all de money en lan off wid he drinkin en gamblin.

"Capn, did yo eber hear of de "Chapel Hill" fight dat de colored folks en de white folks hed
in Mississippi? I will tell yo bout dat fight en de leadin up ter de trubble.

"Atter de war dey hed de carpet-baggers en de Klu Klux bofe, en de white folks dey didn't lak
de carpet-baggers tolerable well, dat dey didn't. I don't know who de carpet-baggers wuz but
dey wuz powful mean, so de white folks say. You know sum way er udder de Yankees er de carpet-baggers
er sum ob de crowd, dey put de niggers in de office at de cote house, en er makein de laws
at de statehouse in Jackson. Dat wuz de craziest bizness dat dey eber cud er done, er puttin
dem ignorant niggers whut cudn't read er write in dem places. I tell yo, Capn, dem whut put
dose niggers in de office dey mus not had es much since es de niggers, kase dey mought know
dat hit wudn't wuk, en hit sho didn't wuk long. Dey hed de niggers messed up in sum kind er
clubs whut dey swaded dem to jine, en gib em all er drum ter beat, en dey all go marchin er
roun er beatin de drums en goin ter de club meetins. Dem ignorant niggers wud sell out fer
er seegar er a stick er candy. Hit wasn't long do till de trubble hit broke out en de fite
tuk place. De Klu Klux dey wuz er ridin de country continual, en de niggers dey skeered plum
sick by dem tall white lookin hants wid dey hosses all white wid de sheets, en sum sey dey
jes cum outen dey grabe en er lookin fer er niggers ter tek bak wid em when de day light cum.
All de time de niggers habin dey club meetins in er ole loose house dere at Chapel Hill, en
de Klux er gittin more numerous all de time, en de feelin mongst de white en de black wuz er
gittin wus en wus, en one night when de niggers habin er grete big meetin, en er beatin dey
drums en er carryin on, here cum de Klu Klux er sumpin er shootin right en lef en er pourin
de shots in ter dat ole house en at ebery niggers dey see, en de niggers dey start er shootin
bak but not fer long, kase mos of em done lit out fer de woods, dats is mos all whut ain't
kilt, en dat wuz de bery las of de club meetins en de bery las of de niggers er holdin de office
in de cote house. I heard bout de fight de nex morn in kase Chapel Hill hit warn't fer frum
whar I libed at dat time. I seed Dr. Marris Gray on de rode on he hoss, en he hoss wuz kivered
wid mud frum he tall ter he head. Dr. Marris Gray he pulled up en sed, "Good mornin "D" is
ye heard bout de fite whut wuz had last nite at Chapel Hill" en I sey "No Sir Doctor, whut
fite wuz dat en whut dey fitin er bout?", en de doctor sey he didn't know whut dey fightin
bout lessin dey jes tryin ter brake up de club meetin, en he went on ter say dat er heap er
niggers wuz kilt en also sum white folks too, en sum mo wuz shot whut ain't dead yit, en dat
he been tendin ter dem whut is shot en still ain't dead. En den I sey "Doctor Morris wuz yo
dere when de fightin goin on"?, en de doctor he say "En cose I warn't dere yo don't think I
gwine be roun what no shootin tekin place, does yo"?, en I say "Naw Suh" en de doctor he rid
on down de rode den, but I knowed in my own mine dat Doctor Morris wuz in dat fightin, kass
he hoss so spattered up wid mud, en I seed er long pistol barrel stickin out frum under he
coat, en den sides dat I iz knowed de doctor eber since I wuz a chile when Marse Tom uster
hab him ter gib de darkies de medicine when dey sik, en I seed him one night er ridin wid de
Klu Klux en heard him er talkin when I wuz hid in de bushes lon side de rode when I cumin home
frum catchin me er possum in de thicket, en den Doctor Morris he wid General Forrest all throo
de war en he know whut fightin is, an he sho wudn't neber go outen his way to miss no shootin."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: James Davis
                    1112 Indiana St. (owner), Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 96
Occupation: Cotton farmer

"This is what's left of me. How old? Me? Now listen and let me tell you how 'twas. Old mistress
put all our ages in the family Bible, and I was born on Christmas morning in 1840 in Raleigh,
North Carolina.

"My old master was Peter Davis and he was old Jeff Davis' brother. There was eight of them
brothers and every one of em was as rich as cream.

"Old master was good to us. He said he wanted us singin' and shoutin' and workin' in the field
from morning to night. He fed us well and we had plenty good clothes to wear--heavy woolen
clothes and good shoes in the winter time. When I was a young man I wore good clothes.

"I served slavery about twenty-four years before peace was declared. We didn't have a thing
in God's world to worry bout. Every darky old master had, he put woolen goods and good heavy
shoes every winter. Oh, he was rich--had bout five or six thousand slaves. Oh, he had darkies
aplenty. He run a hundred plows.

"I went to work when I was seven pullin' worms off tobacco, and I been workin' ever since.
But when I was comin' up I had good times. I had better times than I ever had in my life. I
used to be one of the best banjo pickers. I was good. Played for white folks and called figgers
for em. In them days they said 'promenade', 'sashay', 'swing corners', 'change partners'. They
don't know how to dance now. We had parties and corn shuckin's, oh lord, yes.

"I'll sing you a song

  'Oh lousy nigger
   Oh grandmammy
   Knock me down with the old fence rider,
   Ask that pretty gal let me court her
   Young gal, come blow the coal.'

"When I was twenty-one I was sold to the speculator and sent to Texas. They started me at a
thousand and run me up to a thousand nine hunnerd and fifty and knocked me off. He paid for
me in old Jeff Davis' shin plasters.

"I runned away and I was in Mississippi makin' my way back home to North Carolina. I was hidin'
in a hollow log when twenty-five of Sherman's Rough Riders come along. When they got close
to me the horses jumped sudden and they said, 'Come out of there, we know you're in there!'
And when I come out, all twenty-five of them guns was pointin' at that hole. They said they
thought I was a Revel and 'serted the army. That was on New Years day of the year the war ended.
The Yankees said, 'We's freed you all this mornin', do you want to go with us?' I said, 'If
you goin' North, I'll go.' So I stayed with em till I got back to North Carolina.

"After surrender, people went here and yonder and that's how come I'm here. I emigrated here.
I left Raleigh, North Carolina Christmas Eve 1883. I've seen ninety-six Christmases.

"I member the folks said the war was to keep us under bondage. The South wants us under bondage
right now or they wouldn't do us like they do.

"When I come to this country of Arkansas I brought twelve chillun and left four in North Carolina.
I've had six wives and had twenty-nine chillun by the six wives.

"I've seen them Ku Klux in slavery times and I've cut a many a grapevine. We'd be in the place
dancin' and playin' the banjo and the grape vine strung across the road and the Ku Klux come
ridin' along and run right into it and throw the horses down.

"Cose I believe in hants. They're in the air. Can't everybody see em. Some come in the shape
of a cat or a dog--you know, old folks spirits. I ain't afeared of em--ain't afeared of anything
cept a panter. Cose I got a gun--got three or four of em. You can't kill a spirit cept with silver.

"I was in the road one time at night next to a cemetery and I see somethin' white come right
up side of me. I didn't run then. You know you can git so scared you can't run, but when I
got so I could, I like to killed myself runnin'.

"I'm not able to work now, but I just go anyhow. I got a willin' mind to work and a strong
constitution but I ain't got nothin' to back it. I never was sick but twice in my life.

"Since I been in Pine Bluff I worked sixteen years at night firing up and watchin' engines,
makin' steam, and never lost but one night. I worked for the Cotton Belt forty-eight years.
I worked up until the fust day of this last past May, five years ago, when they laid me off.

"I'm disabled wif dis rheumatism now but I works every day anyway.

"I'll show you I haven't been asleep atall. I worked for the railroad company forty-eight years
and I been tryin' to get that railroad pension but there's so much Red Cross (tape) to these
things they said it'd be three months before they could do anything."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jim Davis
                    1112 Indiana Street
                    Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 98

"Well, I've broke completely down. I ain't worth nothing. Got rheumatism all over me.

"I never seen inside a schoolhouse--allus looked on the outside.

"The general run of this younger generation ain't no good. What I'm speakin' of is the greatest
mass of 'em. They ain't healthy either. Why, when I was comin' along people was healthy and
portly lookin'. Why, look at me. I ain't never had but two spells of sickness and I ain't never
had the headache. The only thing--I broke these three fingers. Hit a mule in the head. Killed
him too.

"Yes'm, that was in slavery times. Why, they passed a law in Raleigh, North Carolina for me
never to hit a man with my fist. That was when I was sold at one thousand nine hundred dollars.

"Ever' time they'd make me mad I'd run off in the woods.

"But they sure was good to their darkies. Plenty to eat and plenty good clothes. Sam Davis
was my owner. And he wouldn't have no rough overseer." I could pick a church song just as good
as I could a reel.

"Some of 'em I used to pick was 'Amazing Grace', 'Old Dan Tucker,' Used to pick one went like this

  'Farewell, farewell, sweet Mary;
   I'm ruined forever
   By lovin' of you;
   Your parents don't like me,
   That I do know
   I am not worthy to enter your d[o].'

I used to pick

  'Dark was the night
   Cold was the ground
   On which the Lord might lay.'

I could pick anything.

  'Amazing grace
   How sweet it sounds
   To save a wretch like me.'

  'Go preach my Gospel
   Says the Lord,
   Bid this whole earth
   My grace receive;
   Oh trust my word
   Ye shall be saved.'

I used to talk that on my banjo just like I talked it there."

Superstitions

"Oh, yes ma'am, I believe in all the old signs.

"You can take a rabbit foot and a black cat's bone from the left fore shoulder, and you take
your mouth and scrape all the meat offin that bone, and you take that bone and sew it up in
a red flannel--I know what I'm talkin' 'bout now--and you tote that in your pocket night and
day--sleep with it--and it brings you good luck. But the last one I had got burnt up when my
house burnt down and I been goin' back ever since.

"And these here frizzly chicken are good luck. If you have a black frizzly chicken and anybody
put any poison or anything down in your yard, they'll scratch it up."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jeff Davis
                    1100 Texas Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 85
[May 31 1938]

"What's my name? I got a good name. Name's Jeff Davis. Miss Mary Vinson was some of my white folks.

"Oh Lord yes, I was here in slavery times--runnin' around like you are--ten years old. I'm
eighty-five even.

"Soldiers used to give me dimes and quarters. Blue coats was what they called 'em. And the
Rebs was Gray.

"Yankees had a gun as long as from here to there. Had cannon-balls weighed a hundred and forty-four
pounds.

"I'm a musician--played the fife. Played it to a T. Had two kinds of drums. Had different kinds
of brass horns too. I 'member one time they was a fellow thought he could beat the drum till
I took it.

"Had plenty to eat. Old master fed us plenty.

"Oh, I used to do a heap of work in a day.

"I was 'bout ten when freedom come. Yes ma'am."

Interviewer: Watt McKinney
Person interviewed: Jeff Davis
                    R.F.D. five miles south, Marvell, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I'se now seventy-eight year old an' gwine on seventy-nine. I was borned in de Tennessee Valley
not far from Huntsville, Alabama. Right soon atter I was borned my white folks, de Welborns,
dey left Alabama an' come right here to Phillips County, Arkansas, an' brung all the darkies
with 'em, an' that's how come me here till dis very day. I is been here all de time since then
an' been makin' crops er cotton an' corn every since I been old enough. I is seen good times
an' hard times, Boss, all endurin' of those years followin' de War, but de worst times I is
ever seen hab been de last several years since de panic struck.

"How-some-ever I is got 'long first rate I reckon 'cause you know I owns my own place here
of erbout eighty acres an' has my own meat an' all such like. I really ain't suffered any for
nothin'. Still they has been times when I ain't had nary a cent an' couldn't get my hands on
a dime, but I is made it out somehow. Us old darkies what come up with de country, an' was
de fust one here, us cleared up de land when there wasn't nothin' here much, an' built de log
houses, an' had to git 'long on just what us could raise on de land an' so on. Couldn't mind
a panic bad as de young folks what is growed up in de last ginnyration.

"You see, I was borned just three years before de darkies was sot free. An' course I can't
riccolect nothin' 'bout de slavery days myself but my mammy, she used to tell us chillun 'bout
dem times.

"Like I first said, us belonged to de Welborns an' dey was powerful loyal to de Souf an' er
heap of de young ones fit in de army, an' dey sont corn an' cows an' hogs an' all sich like
supplies to de army in Tennessee an' Georgia. Dat's what my mammy tole me an' I know dey done
dem things, an' dey crazy 'bout Mr. Jefferson Davis, de fust an' only President of de Confedracy,
an' dat's how come me got dis name I got. Yas suh, dat is how come me named 'Jeff Davis.' An'
I always has been proud of my name, 'cause dat was a sure great one what I is named after.

"My pappy was a white man, dat's what my mammy allus told me. I knows he bound to been 'cause
I is too bright to not have no white blood in me. My mammy, she named 'Mary Welborn'. She say
dat my pappy was a white man name 'Bill Ward' what lived back in Alabama. Dat's all my mammy
ever told me about my pappy. She never say iffen he work for de Welborns er no, er iffen he
was an overseer er what. I don't know nothin' 'bout him scusin' dat he er white man an' he
named 'Bill Ward'. My steppappy, he was name John Sanders, an' he married my mammy when I 'bout
four year old, an' dat was atter de slaves taken outen dey bondage.

"My steppappy, he was a fine carpenter an' could do most anything dat he want to do with an
axe or any kind of a tool dat you work in wood with. I riccolect dat he made a heap of de culberts
for de railroad what was built through Marvell from Helena to Clarendon. He made dem culberts
outen logs what would be split half in two. Then he would hew out de two halves what he done
split open like dey used to make a dug-out boat. Dey would put dem two halves together like
a big pipe under de tracks for de water to run through.

"There was several white mens dat I knowed in dis part of de county what raised nigger famblys,
but there wasn't so many at dat. I will say this for them mens though. Whilst it wasn't right
for dem to do like dat, dem what did have 'em a nigger woman what dey had chillun by sure took
care of de whole gang. I riccolect one white man in particular, an' I knows you is heered of
him too. How-some-ever, I won't call no names. He lived down on de ribber on de island. Dis
white man, he was a overseer for a widder woman what lived in Helena an' what owned de big
place dat dis man oberseer was on. Dis white man, he hab him dis nigger woman for de longest.
She have five chillun by him, three boys an' two gals.

"After a while dis man, he got him a place up close to Marvell where he moved to. He brought
his nigger fambly with him. He built dem a good house on his farm where he kept them. He give
dat woman an' dem chillun dey livin' till de chillun done grown an' de woman she dead. Then
he married him a nice white woman after he moved close to Marvell. He built him a house in
town where his white wife live an' she de mammy of a heap of chillun too by dis same man. So
dis man, he had a white fambly an' a half nigger fambly before. De most of de chillun of dis
man is livin' in this county right now.

"Yas suh, Boss, I is sure 'nough growed up with dis here county. In my young days most all
de west end of this county was in de woods. There wasn't no ditches or no improvements at all.
De houses an' barns was most all made of logs, but I is gwine to tell you one thing, de niggers
an' de white folks, dey get erlong more better together then dan dey does at dis time. De white
folks then an' de darkies, dey just had more confidence in each other seems like in dem days.
I don't know how 'twas in de other states after de War, but right here in Phillips County de
white folks, dey encouraged de darkies to buy 'em a home. Dey helped dem to git it. Dey sure
done dat. Mr. Marve Carruth, dat was really a good white man. He helped me to get dis very
place here dat I is owned for fifty years. An' then I tell you dis too, Boss, when I was coming
up, de folks, dey just worked harder dan dey do these days. A good hand then naturally did
just about three er four times as much work in a day as dey do now. Seems like dis young bunch
awful no 'count er bustin' up and down de road day and night in de cars, er burnin' de gasoline
when dey orter be studyin' 'bout makin' er livin' an' gettin' demselves er home.

"Yas suh, I riccolect all 'bout de time dat de niggers holdin' de jobs in de courthouse in
Helena, but I is never took no part in that votin' business an' I allus kept out of dem arguments.
I left it up to de white folks to 'tend to de 'lectin' of officers.

"De darkies what was in de courthouse dat I riccolect was: Bill Gray, he was one of de clerks;
Hense Robinson, Dave Ellison, an' some more dat I don't remember. Bill Gray, he was a eddycated
man, but de res', dey was just plain old ex-slave darkies an' didn't know nothing. Bill Gray,
he used to be de slave of a captain on a steamboat on de ribber. He was sorter servant to he
mars on de boat where he stayed all the time. The captain used to let him git some eddycation.
Darkies, dey never last long in de courthouse. Dey soon git 'em out.

"I gwine tell you somepin else dat is done changed er lot since I was comin' up. Dat is, de
signs what de folks used to believe in dey don't believe in no more. Yet de same signs is still
here, an' I sure does believe in 'em 'cause I done seen 'em work for all dese years. De Lawd
give de peoples a sign for all things. De moon an' de stars, dey is a sign for all them what
can read 'em an' tells you when to plant de cotton an' de taters an' all your crops. De screech
owls, dey give er warnin' dat some one gwine to die. About de best sign dat some person gwine
die 'round close is for a cow to git to lowin' an' a lowin' constant in de middle of de night.
Dat is a sign I hardly is ever seen fail an' I seen it work out just a few weeks ago when old
Aunt Dinah died up de road. I heered dat cow a lowin' an' a lowin' an' a walkin' back an' forth
down de road for 'bout four nights in a row, right past Aunt Dinah's cabin. I say to my old
woman dat somepin is sure gwine to take place, an' dat some pusson gwine die soon cause dat
cow, she givin' de sign just right. Dere wasn't nobody 'round sick a tall an' Aunt Dinah, she
plumb well at de time. About er week from then Aunt Dinah, she took down an' start to sinkin'
right off an' in less than a week she died. I knowed some pusson gwine die all right, yet an'
still I didn't know who it was to be. I tell you, Boss, I is gittin' uneasy an' troubled de
last day or two, 'cause I is done heered another cow a lowin' an' a lowin' in de middle of
de night. She keeps a walkin' back an' forth past my house out there in de road. I is really
troubled 'cause me an' de old woman both is gittin' old. We is both way up in years an' whilst
both of us is in real good health, Aunt Dinah was too. Dat cow a lowin' like she do is a bad
sign dat I done noticed mighty nigh allus comes true."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jordan Davis
                    306 Cypress Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 86

"I was a boy in the house when the war started and I heard the mistress say the abolitionists
was about to take the South. Yes ma'm. That was in Natchez, Mississippi. I was about nine or ten.

"Mistress' name was Eliza A. Hart and master's name was Dave A. Hart.

"I guess they was good to me. I lived right there in the house with then. Mistress used to
send me to Sunday School and she'd say 'Now, Jordan, you come right on back to the house, don't
you go playin' with them nigger chillun on the streets.'

"My daddy belonged to a man named Davis way down the river in the country and after the war
he came and got me. Sure did. Carried me to Davis Bend. I was a good-sized boy about twelve
or fifteen. He took me to Mrs. Leas Hamer and you know I was a good-sized boy when she put
me in the kitchen and taught me how to cook. Yes'm, I sure can cook. She kept me right in the
house with her children. I did her cooking and cleaned up the house. I never got any money
for it, or if I did I done forgot all about it. She kept me in clothes, she sure did. I didn't
need any money. I stayed five or six years with her, sure did. I thought a lot of her and her
children--she was so kind to me.

"Yes ma'm, I went to school one or two years in Mississippi.

"When I come here to Arkansas on the steamboat and got off right here in Pine Bluff, there
was a white man standin' there named Burks. He kept lookin' at me and directly he said 'Can
you cook?' I was married then and had all my household goods with me, so he got a dray and
carried me out to his house. His wife kept a first-class boarding house. Just first-class white
folks stayed there. After the madam found out I had a good idea 'bout cookin' she put me in
the dining room and turned things over to me.

"Miss, it's been so long, I don't study 'bout that votin' business. I have never bothered 'bout
no Republican or votin' business--I never cared about it. I know one thing, the white people
are the only ones ever did me any good.

"Mrs. J.B. Talbot has been very good to me. My wife used to work for her and so did I. She
sure has been a friend to me. Mrs. J.B. Talbot has certainly stuck to me.

"Oh I think the colored folks ought to be free but I know some of 'em had a mighty tight time
of it after the war and now too.

"Ain't nothin' to this here younger generation. I see 'em goin' down the street singin' and
dancin' and half naked--ain't nothin' to 'em.

"My wife's been dead five or six years and I live here alone. Yes ma'm! I don't want nobody
here with me." And let me tell you what they'd do. They'd all march one behind the other and
somebody would carry the baby's casket on their shoulder and sing that song. That's the first
song I remember. I was three years old and now I'm seventy-three and crippled up with rheumatism.

"My mother had a garden and they went 'round that way to the graveyard and I thought they was
buryin' it in the garden. That was in Georgia.

"In the old days when people died they used to sit up and pray all night, but they don't do
that now.

"I was married young. I don't love to tell how old but I was fifteen and when I was seventeen
I was a widow. I tried and tried to get another husband as good as my first one but I couldn't.
I didn't marry then till I was thirty some.

"My parents brought me from Georgia when I was five years old and now I ain't got no blood
kin in Pine Bluff.

"Do I believe in signs? Well, let me tell you what I do know. Before my house burned in 1937,
I was sittin' on my porch, and my mother and sister come up to my house. They come a distance
to the steps and went around the house. They was both dead but I could see 'em just as plain.
And do you know in about two or three weeks my house burned. I think that vision was a sign
of bad luck.

"And another time when I was havin' water put in my house, I dreamed that my sister who was
dead told a friend of mine to tell me not to sign a contract and I didn't know there was a
contract. And that next day a man come out for me to sign a contract and I said, 'No.' He wanted
to know why and finally I told him, and he said, 'You're just like my mother.' It was two days
'fore I'd sign. The men had quit work waitin' for me to sign. But let me tell you when they
put the water in and when they'd flush the pipes my tub overflowed. The ground was too low
and I never could use the commode. Now don't you think that dream was a warning?

"Just before I had this spell of sickness I dreamed my baby--he's dead--come and knocked and
said. 'Mama.' And I said, 'Yes, darlin', God bless your heart, you done been here three times
and this time mama's comin'. I really thought I was goin' to die. I got up and looked in the
glass. You know you can see death in the eyes, but I didn't see any sign of death and I haven't
gone yet.

"Last Saturday I was prayin' to God not to let me get out of the heart of the people. You see,
I have no kin people and I wanted people to come to my rescue. The next day was Sunday and
more people come to see me and brought me more things.

"I been in the church fifty-seven years. I'm the oldest member in St. John's. I joined in May 1881.

"I went to school some. I went as far as the fourth grade."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Minerva Davis, Biscoe, Arkansas Age: 56

"My father was sold in Richmond, Virginia when he was eighteen years old to the nigger traders.
They had nigger traders and cloth peddlers and horse traders all over the country coming by
every few weeks. Papa said he traveled to Tennessee. His job was to wash their faces and hands
and fix their hair--comb and cut and braid their hair and dress them to be auctioned off. They
sold a lot of children from Virginia all along the way and he was put up in Tennessee and auctioned
off. He was sold to the highest bidder. Bill Thomas at Brownsville, Tennessee was the one bought
him. Papa was a large strong man.

"He run off and went to war. He had learned to cook and he was one-eyed and couldn't fight.
All the endurin' time he cooked at the camps. Then he run off from war when he got a chance
before he was mustered out and he never got a pension because of that. He said he come home
pretty often and mama was expecting a baby. He thought he was needed at home worse. He was
so tired of war. He didn't know it would be valuable to him in his old days. He was sorry he
didn't stay till they got him mustered out. He said it was harder in the war than in slavery.
They was putting up tents and moving all the time and he be scared purt nigh to death all the
time. Never did know when they would be shot and killed.

"Mama said the way they bought grandma was at a well. A drove of folks come by. It was the
nigger traders. She had pulled up her two or three buckets. She carried one bucket on her head
and one in each hand. They said, 'Draw me up some water to drink.' She was so smart they bragged
on her. They said, 'She such a smart little thing.' They went to see her owner and bought her
on the spot. They took her away from her people and she never heard tell of none of them no
more. She said there was a big family of them. They brought her to Brownsville, Tennessee and
Johnny Williams bought her. That was my grandma.

"Mother was born there on Johnny Williams' place and she was heired by his daughter. His daughter
married Bill Thomas, the one what done bought my papa. Her young mistress was named Sallie
Ann Thomas. Mama got married when she was about grown. She said after she married she'd have
a baby about the same time her young mistress had one. Mama had twelve children and raised
eleven to be grown. Four of us are living yet. My sister was married when I was born. White
folks married young and encouraged their slaves to so they have time to raise big families.
Mama died when I was a year old but papa lived on with Johnny Williams where he was when she
died. I lived with my married sister. I was the baby and she took me and raised me with her
children.

"The Ku Klux wanted to whoop my papa. They all called him Dan. They said he was mean. His white
folks protected him. They said he worked well. They wouldn't let him be whooped by them Ku Kluxes.

"Miss Sallie Ann was visiting and she had mama along to see after the children and to help
the cook where she visited. They was there a right smart while from the way papa said. The
pattyrollers whooped somebody on that farm while she was over there. They wasn't many slaves
on her place and they was good to them. That whooping was right smart a curiosity to mama the
way papa told us about it.

"When mama and papa married, Johnny Williams had a white preacher to read out of a book to
them. They didn't jump over no broom he said.

"They was the biggest kind of Methodist folks and when mama was five years old Johnny Williams
had all his slaves baptized into that church by his own white preacher. Papa said some of them
didn't believe niggers had no soul but Johnny Williams said they did. (The Negroes must have
been christened--ed.)

"Papa said folks coming through the country would tell them about freedom. Mama was working
for Miss Sallie Ann and done something wrong. Miss Sallie Ann says, 'I'm a good mind to whoop
you. You ain't paying 'tention to a thing you is doing the last week.' Mama says, 'Miss Sallie
Ann, we is free; you ain't never got no right to whoop me no more care what I do.' When Bill
come home he say, 'How come you to sass my wife? She so good to you.' Mama say, 'Master Bill,
them soldiers say I'm free.' He slapped her. That the first time he laid hands on her in his
life. In a few days he said, 'We going to town and see is you free. You leave the baby with
Sallie Ann.' It was the courthouse. They questioned her and him both. Seemed like he couldn't
understand how freedom was to be and mama didn't neither. Then papa took mama on Johnny Williams'
place. He come out to Arkansas and picked cotton after freedom and then he moved his children
all out here.

"Uncle Albert and grandpa take nights about going out. Uncle Albert was courting.

"They put potatoes on fire to cook when next morning they would be warm ready to eat. The fire
popped out on mama. She was in a light blaze. Not a bit of water in the house. Her sisters
and brothers peed (urinated) on her to put out the fire. Her stomach was burned and scarred.
They was all disappointed because they thought she would be a good breeder. Miss Sallie Ann
took her and cured her and when Miss Sallie Ann was going to marry, her folks didn't want to
give her Minerva. She tended (contended) out and got her and Agnes both. Agnes died at about
emancipation.

"I'm named for my mother. I'm her youngest child.

"I recollect my grandmother and what she told, and papa's mind went back to olden times the
older he got to be. When folks would run down slavery he would say it wasn't so bad with them--him
and mama. He never seen times bad as times is got to be now. Then he sure would wanted slavery
back some more. He was a strong hard laboring man. He was a provider for his family till he
got so no 'count.

"Times is changing up fast. Folks is worse about cutting up and carousing than they was thirty
years ago to my own knowledge. I ain't old so speaking."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Rosetta Davis, Marianna, Arkansas Age: 55

"I was born in Phillips County, Arkansas. My folks' master was named Dr. Jack Spivy. Grandma
belong to him. She was a field woman. I don't know if he was a good master er not. They didn't
know it was freedom till three or four months. They was at work and some man come along and
said he was going home, the War was over. Some of the hands asked him who win and he told them
the Yankees and told them they was free fer as he knowed. They got to inquiring and found out
they done been free. They made that crap I know and I don't recollect nothing else.

"I farmed at Foreman, Arkansas for Taylor Price, Steve Pierce, John Huey. I made a crap here
with Will Dale. I come to Arkansas twenty-nine years ago. I come to my son. He had a cleaning
and pressing shop here (Marianna). He died. I hired to the city to work on the streets. I never
been in jail. I owned a house here in town till me and my wife separated. She caused me to
lose it. I was married once.

"I get ten dollars a month from the gover'ment.

"The present time is queer. I guess I could git work if I was able to do it. I believe in saving
some of what you make along. I saved some along and things come up so I had to spend it. I
made so little.

"Education has brought about a heap of unrest somehow. Education is good fer some folks and
not good fer some. Some folks git spoilt and lazy. I think it helped to do it to the people
of today."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Virginia (Jennie) Davis
                    Scott Street, Forrest City, Arkansas
Age: 45 or 47

"This is what my father, Isaac Johnson, always told us:

'I was born in Raleigh, North Carolina. Mama died and left three of us children and my papa.
He was a blacksmith.' I don't recollect grandpa's name now.

'A man come to buy me. I was a twin. My sisters cried and cried but I didn't cry. I wanted
to ride in the surrey. I was sold and taken to Montgomery, Alabama.'

"Angeline was his oldest sister and Emmaline was his twin sister. He never seen any of his
people again. He forgot their names. His old master that bought him died soon after he come
back from North Carolina.

"His young master didn't even know his age. He tried to get in the army and he did get in the
navy. They said he was younger than he told his age. He enlisted for three years. He was in
a scrimmage with the Indians once and got wounded. He got twenty dollars then fifty dollars
for his services till he died.

"He wasn't old enough to be in the Civil War. He said he remembered his mistress crying and
they said Lincoln was to sign a freedom treaty. His young master told him he was free. The
colored folks was having a jubilee. He had nowheres to go. He went back to the big house and
sot around. They called him to eat, and he went on sleeping where he been sleeping. He had
nowheres to go. He stayed there till he joined the navy. Then he come to Mississippi and married
Sallie Bratcher and he went back to Alabama and taught school. He went to school at night after
the Civil War till he went to the navy. He was a light-brown skin.

"Grandma, Jane Cash, was one brought from Huntingdon, Tennessee in a gang and sold at auction
in Memphis, Tennessee. She said her mother, father, the baby, her brother and two sisters and
herself was sold, divided out and separated. Grandma said one of her sisters had a suckling
baby. She couldn't keep it from crying. They stopped and made her give it away.

"Then grandma fell in the hands of the Walls at Holly Springs, Mississippi. She was a good
breeder, so she didn't have to work so hard. They wouldn't let her work when she was pregnant.

"Mrs. Walls buried her silver in the front yard. She had an old trusty colored man to dig a
hole and bury it. No one ever found it. The soldiers took their meat and let the molasses run
out on the ground. They ransacked her house. Mr. Walls wasn't there.

"My auntie, Eliza Williamson, was half white. She was one of her master's son's children. Her
first master put her and her husband together. She lives near Conway, Arkansas now and is very old.

"Grandma was living at Menifee, Arkansas, and a man from De Valls Bluff, Arkansas come to her
house. She saw a scar on his arm. He was marked by gingerbread. She asked him some questions.
Epps was his name and he was older than herself. He told her about the sale in Memphis. He
remembered some things she didn't. He knowd where they all went. Her sister was Mary Wright
at Milan, Tennessee. Grandma was twelve years old when that sale come off. She shouted and
they cried. She couldn't eat for a week.

"She said old man Walls was good to them. When my mama was a little girl she was short and
fat and light color. Old man Walls would call them in his parlor, all dress up and show them
to his company. He was proud of them. He'd give them big dances ever so often. In the evening
they had their own preaching in white folks' church. Grandma was good with the needle. She
sewed for the mistress and her own family too. She had twelve children I think they said. They
said her mistress had a large family too.

"Grandpa belong to Mike Cash. He give her husband what he made on Saturday evening. I think
grandpa was sold from the Walls to Mike Cash. He took the Cash name and my mother was a Cash
and she married Isaac Johnson. She was raised in Arkansas. Papa was married twice. I was raised
around Holly Grove, Arkansas. That is where my folks lived in the last of slavery--that is
mama's folks. Papa come to Arkansas at a later time.

"I think times is queer. I work and makes the best of 'em. (Ten dollars a month house rent.)
I work all the time washing and ironing. (She has washed for the same families years and years.
She is a light mulatto--ed.)

"Young folks is lost respect for the truth. Not dependable. That is their very worst fault,
I think.

"No-oom, I wouldn't vote no quicker 'en I'd smoke a cigarette. But I haben never smoked narry one."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden Subject: Ex-Slaves Story:--Information

This information given by: Winnie Davis (C)
Place of residence: 304 E. Twenty-First Street
                    Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Occupation: None
Age: 100
[TR: Personal information moved from bottom of first page.]

"Katie Butler was my old missis 'fore I married my husband. His name David Davis. I cooked
for Jeff Davis and took care of his daughter, Winnie. I stayed with old missis, Jeff Davis'
wife, till she died. She made me promise I'd stay with her. That was in Virginia."

(I have made three trips trying to get information and pictures of Winnie Davis. Her granddaughter
said that a good many years ago when Winnie's mind was good, she was down town shopping and
that when she gave her name, the clerk said, "Were you named after Jeff Davis' daughter?" and
that Winnie replied, "She must have been named after me 'cause I cooked for Jeff Davis 'fore
she was born."

Her mind is not very good at times, but the day I took her picture, I asked who she used to
cook for and she said, "Jeff Davis."

She is rather deaf, nearly blind and toothless, but can get around the house quite well. The
neighbors say that she has been a hard worker and of a very high-strung temperament.

The granddaughter, Mattie Sneed, says her grandmother said she was sold in Virginia when she
was eight years old.)

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden Person interviewed: Leroy Day (c) Age: 80 Home: 123 N. Walnut Street,
Pine Bluff, Ark.

"Good Lord yes, lady, I was here in slavery days. I remember my old marster had an overseer
that whipped the people pretty rapid.

"I remember when the soldiers--the Yankees--come through, some said they was takin' things.

"Old Marster, his name was Joe Day, he was good to us. He seemed to be a Christian man and
he was a Judge. They generally called him Judge Day. I never seen him whip nobody and never
seen him have no dispute. I tell you if he wasn't a Christian, he looked like one.

"I was born in Georgia and I can remember the first Governor we had after freedom. His name
was Governor Bullock. I heard it said the people raised a lot of sand because they said he
was takin' the public money. That was when Milledgeville was the capital of Georgia.

"I used to vote after freedom. I voted Republican. I went to school a little after the war
and then emigrated to Louisiana and Arkansas.

"Things has got so now everything is in politics. Some votes cause they want their friends
in office and some don't take no interest.

"Some of the younger generation is prospering very well and some are goin' kinda slow. Some
is goin' take another growth. The schoolin' they is gittin' is helpin' to build 'em up.

"Yes mam, I use to be strong and I have done a heap of work in my life. Cotton and corn was
the business, the white man had the land and the money and we had to work to get some of that
money.

"I remember when the Ku Klux was right bad in Louisiana. I never did see any--I didn't try
to see 'em. I know I heard that they went to a school house and broke up a negro convention.
They called for a colored man named Peck and when he come out they killed him and one white
man got killed. They had a right smart little scrummage, and I know the colored people ran
off and went to Kansas.

"The fust man I ever seed killed was one time a colored man's dog got in another colored man's
field and ate his roasting ears, it made him so mad he shot the dog and then the man what owned
the dog killed the other man. I never did know what the punishment was.

"Since I have become afflicted (I'm ruptured) I can't do no work any more. I can't remember
anything else. If I had time to study I might think of something else." They call it now Releford.
I was born October 12, 1847. I stayed wid old master till he died. I was bout thirty-five years
old. He lernt me a good trade, brick layin'. He give me everything I needed and more. After
the war he took me by the old brass lamp wid twisted wick--it was made round--and lernt me
outer the Blue Back Speller and Rithmetic. The spelling book had readin' in it. Lady ain't
you seed one yit? Then I lernt outer Rays Rithmetic and McGuffeys Reader. Old master say it
ginst the law to teach slaves foe the war. Dat what he said, it was ginst the law to educate
a nigger slave. The white folks schools was pay foe the war.

"My old master had a small farm. His wife died. He never married no more. I caint member her
name. She died when I was a little bitter of a boy. They had a putty large family. There was
Marion, William, Fletcher, John, Miss Nancy, Miss Claricy, Miss Betsy. I think that all. The
older childern raised up the little ones. My master named Mars Pleasant White. Long as I stayed
wid him I had a plenty to eat an' wear an' a dollar to spend. I had no sense to save a cent
for a old day. Mars White was a good man if ever one lived. He was a good man. Four old darkies
all Mars White had. They was my mama, grandma, papa, auntie. My name I would lack it better
White but that is where the Dell part come in; papa b'long to the Dells and b'fo the war he
talked to me bout it. He took his old master's name. They call him Louis Dell White. He didn't
have no brothers but my mama had two sisters. Her name was Mary White. Them was happy days
b'fo the war. The happiest days in all my life. Bout at the beginnin' of the war Mama took
cole at the loom and died. We all waited on her, white folks too. She didn't lack for waitin'
on. Something white folks et, we et. We had plenty good grub all time long as Mars White live.

"How'd I know bout to git in war? I heard white folks talkin' bout it. One time I heard Mars
White talkin' to my folks bout takin' us away. We was happy an' doin' well an' I didn't lack
the talk but I didn't know what "war" was. No mam that was two years foe they got to fightin'
down at Murfreesboro. Mars White was a ruptured man. He never left our place. I never heard
bout none of my folks bein' sold. Mars White aired (heired) all us. My papa left and never
come back. I d[o]n[o] how he got through the lines in the army. I guess he did fight wid the
Yankees.

"Papa didn't speak plain. Grandma couldn't speak plain. They lisp. They talk fast. Sound so
funny. Mama and auntie speak well. Plain as I do now. They was up wid Mars White's childern
more. Mars White sent his childern to pay school. It was a log house and they had a lady teacher.
They had a accordion. Mars Marion's neighbor had one too. All of em could play.

"White women would plat shucks an' make foot mats, rugs and horse collars. The white women
lernt the darkie women. There was no leather horse collars as ever I seed. I lernt to twist
shucks and weave chair bottoms. Then I lernt how to make white oak split chair bottoms. I made
all kinds baskets. We had all sizes and kinds of baskets. When they git old they turn dark.
Shuck bottom chairs last longer but they kinner ruff an' not so fancy.

"Well when they started off fightin' at Murfreesboro, it was a continual roar. The tin pans
in the cubbord (cupboard) rattle all time. It was distressful. The house shakin' all time.
All our houses jar. The earth quivered. It sound like the judgment. Nobody felt good. Both
sides foragin' one bad as the other, hungry, gittin' everything you put way to live on. That's
"war". I found out all bout what it was. Lady it ain't nuthin' but hell on dis erth.

"I tole you I was ten miles from the war and how it roared and bout how the cannons shook the
earth. There couldn't be a chicken nor a goose nor a year of corn to be found bout our place.
It was sich hard times. It was both sides come git what you had. Whole heap of Yankees come
in their blue suits and caps on horses up the lane. They was huntin' horses. They done got
every horse and colt on the place cepin one old mare, mother of all the stock they had on the
place. Young mistress had a furs bout her and led her up the steps and put her in the house.

"Then when they started to leave, one old Yankee set the corner of the house on fire. We all
got busy then, white folks and darkies both carry in' water ter put it out. We got it out but
while we doin' that, mind out, they went down the lane to the road by the duck pond we had
dug out. One old soldier spied a goose settin' in the grass. She been so scared she never come
to the house no more. Nobody knowed there was one on our place. He took his javelin and stuck
it through her back. She started hollowin' and flutterin' till the horses, nearly all of em,
started runnin' and some of em buckin'. We got the fire bout out. We couldn't help laughin'
it look so funny. I been bustin' I was so mad cause they tried take old Beck. Three of em horses
throwd em. They struck out cross the jimpson weeds and down through the corn patch tryin' to
head off their horses. Them horses throwd em sprawlin'. That was the funniest sight I ever seed.

"We got our water out of a cave. It was good cold limestone water. We had a long pole and a
rope with a bucket on the end. We swing the pole round let it down then pull it back and tie
it. They go to the other end and git the bucket of water. I toted bout all the water to both
places what they used. One day I goin' to the cave after water. I had a habit of throwin' till
I got to be prutty exact bout hittin'. I spied a hornets nest in a tree long the lane. I knowd
them soldiers be long back fer sompin else, pillagin' bout. It wasn't long show nuff they come
back and went up to the house.

"I got a pile of rocks in my hands. I hid down in the hazel nut bushes. When they come by gallopin'
I throwd an' hit that big old hornets nest. The way they piled out on them soldiers. You could
see em fightin' far as you could see em wid their blue caps. The horses runnin' and buckin'.
I let out to the house to see what else they carried off.

"I tole Mars White bout how I hit that hornets nest wid the first rock I throwd. He scolded
me, for he said if they had seen me they would killed me. It scared him. He said don't do no
more capers like that. That old hornets nest soon come down. It was big as a water bucket.
Mars White call me son boy. I tole him what terrible language they used, and bout some of the
horses goin' over the lane fence. It was made outer rails piled up. Mars White sho was glad
they didn't see me. He kept on sayin' son boy they would killed you right on the spot. Don't
do nuthin' to em to aggravate em.

"It look lack we couldn't make a scratch on the ground nowhere the soldiers couldn't find it.
We had a ash hopper settin' all time. We made our soap and lye hominy. They took all our salt.
We couldn't buy none. We put the dirt in the hopper and simmered the water down to salt. We
hid that. No they didn't find it. Our smoke house was logs dobbed wid mud and straw. It was
good size bout as big as our cabins. It had somepin in it too. All the time I tell you.

"You ever eat dried beef? It is fine.

"I say I been to corn shuckins. They do that at night. We hurry and git through then we have
a dance in front of Mars White's house. We had a good time. Mars White pass round ginger bread
and hard cider. We wore a thing on our hands keep shucks from hurtin' our hands. One darkie
sit up on the pile and lead the singin'. Old Dan Tucker was one song we lernt. I made some
music instruments. We had music. Folks danced then more they do now. Most darkies blowed quills
and Jew's harps. I took cane cut four or six made whistles then I tuned em together and knit
em together in a row like a mouth harp you see.

[TR: there is a drawing of the whistles, something like this:

                   -  | |
               -  | | | |
             | | | | | |
       -  | | | | | | | |
   -  | | | | | | | | | |
  | | | | | | | | | | | |
   -   -   -   -   -   -
          [HW: blow]

Two lines across all the whistles may indicate strings.]

Another way get a big long cane cut out holes long down to the joint, hold your fingers over
different holes and blow. I never had a better time since freedom. I never had a doctor till
since I been 80 years old neither.

"Later on I made me a bow of cedar, put one end in my mouth and pick the string wid my fingers
while I hold the other end wid this hand. (Left hand. It was very peculiar shaped in the palm.)
See my hand that what caused it. I have been a musician in my time. I lernt to handle the banjo,
the fiddle and the mandolin. I played fer many a set, all over the country mostly back home
(in Tennessee).

"We had a heap of log rollins back home in slavery times. They have big suppers spread under
the trees. We sho know we have a good supper after a log rollin'.

"We most always worked at night in winter. Mama worked at the loom and weaved. Grandma and
old mistress carded. They used hand cards. Auntie spun thread. I reeled the thread. I like
to hear it cluck off the hanks. Papa he had to feed the stock and look after it. He'd fool
round after that. He went off to the war at the first of it and never come home.

"The war broke us up and ruined us all but me. Grandma married old man soon after freedom.
He whooped and beat her up till she died. He was a mean old scoundel. They said he was a nigger
driver. His name was Wesley Donald. She died soon after the war. Mama was dead. Auntie married
and went on off. I was 18 years old. When freedom come on Mars White says you all set free.
You can leave or stay on here. I stayed there. Mars White didn't give us nuthin'. He was broke.
All he had was land.

"Come a talk bout Lincoln givin' em homes. Some racketed bout what they outer git. That was
after freedom. Most of em never got nuthin'. They up and left. Some kept on workin'. They got
to stealin' right smart. Some the men got so lazy they woulder starved out their families and
white folks too. White folks made em go to work. The darky men sorter quit work and made the
women folks do the work. They do thater way now. Some worse den others bout it.

"Me and Mars White went to work. We see droves darkies just rovin' round. Said they huntin'
work and homes. Some ask for victuals. Yes they give em something to eat. When they come in
droves they couldn't give em much. Some of em oughter left. Some of the masters was mean. Some
of em mighty good.

"Me and Mars White and his boys rigged up a high wheel that run a band to a lay (lathe). One
man run the wheel wid his hands and one man at the lay (lathe) all time. We made pipes outer
maple and chairs. We chiseled out table legs and bed post. We made all sort of things. Anything
to sell. We sold a heap of things. We made money. If I'd had sense to keep part of it. Mars
White always give me a share. We had a good livin' soon as we got over the war.

"I farmed. I was a brick layer. Mars White lernt me that. When he died I followed that trade.
I worked at New Orleans, Van Buren, Jackson, Meridian. I worked at Lake Villiage with Mr. Lasley,
and Mr. Ivy. They was fine brick layers. I worked for Dr. Stubbs. Mr. Scroggin never went huntin'
without me but once over here on Cache River. He give me land to build my cabins. I got lumber
up at the mills here. Folks come to my cabins from 23 states. J. Dall Long at St. Louis sent
me a block wid my picture. I didn't know what it was. Mr. Moss told me it was a bomb like they
used in the World War. I had some cards made in Memphis, some Little Rock. I sent em out by
the telephone books tellin' em it was good fishin' now.

"J. Dall Long said when I go back home I send you somethin' nice. That what he sent in the mail.

"It was ugliest picture of me in a boat an' a big fish holt my britches leg pullin' me over
out the boat. He had me named "Hambones" under it. I still got my block. I got nuther thing--old
aunties bonnet she wore in slavery.

"I quit keepin' club house. I kept it 27 years. I rented the cabins, sold minnows and bates.
They give me the land but I couldn't sell it. Old woman everybody call "Nig" cook fer me. I
wanter live like Nig and go up yonder. I ainter goner be in this world long but I want to go
to heben. Nig was not my wife. She was a fine cook. She cooked an' stayed at my cabins. This
little chile--orphan chile--I got wid me was Nig's grandchild. When Nig died I took him. I
been goin with him to pick cotton. I want er lern him to work. Egercation ain't no good much
to darkies. I been tryin' to see what he could do bettern farm. They ain't nuthin'. I set down
on the ground and pick some so he will pick. He is six years old. When it rain I caint pick
and set on the wet ground.

Ku Klux

"The onlies sperience I had myself wid the Ku Klux was one night fo Grandma and auntie left.
Somebody wrap on our cabin door. They opened it. We gat scared when we seed em. They had the
horses wrapped up. They had on white long dresses and caps. Every one of em had a horse whoop
(whip). They called me out. Grandma and auntie so scared they hid. They tole me to git em water.
They poured it some whah it did not spill on the ground. Kept me totin' water. Then they say,
"You bin a good boy?" They still drinkin'. One say, "Just from Hell pretty dry." Then they
tole me to stand on my head. I turned summer sets a few times. They tickled me round wid the
ends of the whoops. I had on a long shirt. They laugh when I stand on my head. Old Mars White
laughed. I knowed his laugh. Then I got over my scare. They say, "Who live next down the road?"
I tole em Nells Christian. They say, "What he do?" I said, "Works in the field." They all grunt,
m-m-m-m. Then they say, "Show us the way." I nearly run to death cross the field to keep outer
the way of the white horses. The moon shining bright as day. They say Nells come out here.
He say "Holy Moses." He come out. They say "Nells what you do?" "I farms." They say "What you
raise?" He say "Cotton and corn." They say "Take us to see yo cotton we jess from Hell. We
ain't got no cotton there." He took em out there where it was clean. They got down and felt
it. Then they say "What is dat?", feelin' the grass. Nells say "That is grass." They say, "You
raise grass too?" He said, "No. It come up." They say "Let us see yo corn." He showed em the
corn. They felt it. They say "What this?" Nells say, "It grass." They say, "You raise grass
here?" They all grunt m-m-m-m everything Nells say. They give him one bad whoopin' an' tell
him they be back soon see if he raisin' grass. They said "You raise cotton and corn but not
grass on this farm." They they moan, "m-m-m-m." I herd em say his whole family and him too
was out by day light wid their hoes cuttin' the grass out their crop. I was sho glad to git
back to our cabin. They didn't come back to Nells no more that I herd bout. The man Nells worked
for muster been one in that crowd. He lived way over yonder. No I think the Ku Klux was a good
thing at that time. The darkies got sassy (saucy), trifling, lazy. They was notorious. They
got mean. The men wouldn't work. Their families have to work an' let them roam round over the
country. Some of em mean to their families. They woulder starved the white out and their selves
too. I seed the Ku Klux heap a times but they didn't bother me no more. I herd a heap they
done along after that. They say some places the Ku Klux go they make em git down an' eat at
the grass wid their mouths then they whoop em. Sometimes they make em pull off their clothes
and whoop em. I sho did feel for em but they knowd they had no business strollin' round, vistin'.
The Ku Klux call that whoopin' helpin' em git rid of the grass. Nells moster lived at what
they called Caneville over cross the field.

"The way that Patty Rollers was. The mosters paid somebody. Always somebody round wantin' a
job like that. Mars White was his own overseer. All round there was good livers. They worked
long wid the slaves. Some of the slaves would race. Papa would race. He wanted to race all
time. Grandma cooked for all of us. They had a stone chimney in the kitchen. Big old hearth
way out in front. Made outer stone too. We all et the same victuals long as Mars White lived.
Then I left."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: James Dickey, Marianna, Arkansas Age:
68 [May 31 1939]

"I don't know much to tell about my folks. My parents died when I was young. Mother died when
I was twelve and father when I was seven years old. Great-grandma was an Indian squaw. My father's
pa was his young master. His old master was named George Dickey. The young master was John
Dickey. I reckon to start with my mother had a husband. She had twelve children but the last
seven was by my pa. He was lighter than I am and paler. This red is Indian in me. I know how
he looked and how she looked too. The young master never married. He had some brothers. My
father lived with us and his pa was there too some. I don't know what become of John Dickey
but my pa was buried at Mt. Tursey Cemetery. It was a sorter mixed burying grown (ground) but
at a white church. Mother come here and was buried at Cat Island in a colored church cemetery.

"I farmed in Mississippi, then I come to Miller Lumber Company and I worked with them forty-two
years. I worked at Marked Tree, then they sent me here (Marianna).

"I voted in Caruthersville, Missouri last I voted. It don't do much good to vote. I am too
old to vote. I never voted in Arkansas. I voted some in Mississippi but not regular.

"Times is hard. So many white women do their own cooking and washing till it don't leave no
work fer the colored folks. The lumber work is gone fer good.

"The present generation is going back'ards. For awhile it looked like they was rising--I'm
speaking morally. They going back down in a hurry. Drinking and doing all kinds of devilment.
The race is going back'ard now. Seems like everybody could see that when whiskey come back in.

"I got high blood pressure. I do a little work. I watch on Sunday at the mills. I don't get
no help from the Gover'ment."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Benjamin Diggs
                    420 N. Cypress, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 79

"I was born in 1859 in North Carolina. Oh, sure, I remember when the Yankees come through.
They said they done right smart of damage. I remember goin' by a place where they had burned
it down. They didn't do nothin' to my white folks 'cept took the stock.

"The Lyles was my white folks. They called her Polly Lyles. Oh, they was good to us. My mother
and her sister and another colored woman and we children all belonged to one set of people--Miss
Polly Lyles; and my father belonged to the Diggs.

"After freedom we moved off but they was good to us just the same, and we was glad to pay 'em
a visit and they was glad to have us.

"I've heard my mother say she'd ignore the idea of a cold biscuit but my father said he was
glad to get one. He said he didn't get 'em but once a week.

"Oh, indeed there was a lot of difference in the way the colored folks was treated. Some of
'em was very good, just like they is now.

"Well, all those old people is dead and gone now 'cause they was old then.

"I come here to Arkansas in '88. That was when they was emigratin' the folks. I was grown and
married then. I was twenty-six when I married in '85.

"I went to school a little. I can sorta scribble a little and read a little, but my eyes is
failin' now. I started wearin' glasses 'fore I really needed 'em. I got to projectin' with
my mother's glasses Looked like they read so good.

"Farmin' is all I know how to do. Never done anything else. I owned some land and farmed for
myself.

"Sure, I used to vote--Republican. I never had any trouble. I always tried to conduct my life
to avoid trouble. I believe in that policy.

"I joined the church when I was very young, very young. I go by the Golden Rule and by the Bible.

"I first lived in Pope County.

"I learned since I come here to Pine Bluff there's enough churches here to save the world,
but there's some mean people here."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Katie Dillon
                    307 Hazel Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 82
[Dec 31 1937]

"I hope I was here in slavery days--don't I look like it? I was a good big girl after surrender.

"I was born in Rodney, Mississippi in 1855.

"I had a good old master--Doctor Williams. Didn't have no mistress. He never married till after
surrender.

"We lived right in town--right on the Mississippi River where the gun boats went by. They shelled
the town one day. Remember it just as well as if 'twas now. I hope it was exciting. Everybody
moved out. Some run and left their stores. They run to Alcorn University, five miles from there.
Some of em come back next day and some never come back till after surrender.

"The old Doctor bought my mother when she was twelve years old. When she got big enough she
was the cook. Made a fine one too. I worked around the house and toted in wood and water.

"After surrender, Dr. Williams wanted my mother to give me and my brother to him and he would
give her a home, but she wouldn't. I wish she had but you know I wasn't old enough to know
what was best. She hired out and took us with her. I hired out too. I reckon I was paid but
I never did see it. I reckon my mother collected it. I know she clothed me. I had better clothes
than I got now. We stayed there till we come to Arkansas. I was married then. I married when
I was seventeen. I was fast wasn't I? I got a good husband. Didn't have to work, only do my
own work. Just clean up the house and garden and tend to the chickens. My husband was a picture
man. Yes'm, I've lived in town all my life--born and raised up in town.

"After surrender I went to the first free school ever was in Rodney, Mississippi. I went about
two sessions. I ought to've learned more'n I did but I didn't see how it would benefit me.

"In slavery days we used to go right to the table and eat after the white folks was through.
We didn't eat out of no pots and pans. Whatever was on the table you et it until you got enough.

"When I was comin' up and they was goin' to have a private ball, they sent out invitations
and I went, but when they had that kind where everybody could go I wouldn't a gone to one of
them for nothin'.

"The way things is goin' now I don't think the end can be very far off.

"I remember when peace was declared I saw the soldiers across the street and they had their
guns all stacked. I was lookin' and wonderin' what it was. You know children didn't ask questions
in them days. I heard some of the older ones talkin' and I heard em say the war was over.

"I never had but two children and only one livin' now. Yes'm, I own my home and my son helps
me what he can. I'm thankful I got as much as I have."

El Dorado District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS [HW: Customs] Name of Interviewer: Pernella Anderson Subject:
Customs--Slavery Days [Nov 30 1936]

This information given by: Alice Dixon Place of Residence: Rock Island quarters Occupation:
None Age: 80 (approx) [TR: Personal information moved from last page of interview.]

Well honey ah can't tell jes when ah wuz born. De white fokes have mah age. Ah blong tuh de
Newtons. As near as ah can get at mah age ahm bout 74 now but ah wuz big nough to member the
soldiers comin aroun atter surrender.

Mah mutha had ten chillun but ah can't member but two uv mah sisters and one uv mah bruthes.
We staid wid de Newtons till we wuz set free and I nuss fuh de Newtons aftuh we wuz set free.
De Newtons wuz awful good ter me and dey wuz good tuh mah ma too. Ah slept up in de big house
wid de Newtons. Ah nevah went ter school. Ah didn' have a chance. Ah went ter church jes sometimes.
We didn have churches. We jes had meetin in our house we lived in. We cooked on fire places.
We cooked our bread in what we called oven bout so high. We had chickens and eggs, peas, tatoes,
meat and bread but ah didn know there was no sich thing as cake an pie till ah got to be an
oman. Ah can't recollect jes how ole ah wuz in slave time but ah shore can recollect dem Yankees
riding dem hosses and ah ask may ma what dey was doin and she said gatherin up cotton dey made
in slave time an ah kin recollect an oman a gin. Yo know we had steps made of blocks saved
from trees and she wuz a goin ovah em steps er shoutin and singin "Ah am free, at last, ah
am free at last, ah'm free at last, thank Gawd a Mighty ah'm free at last." She wuz so glad
ter be free.

My ma in huh time would make cloth. She had a loom. Hit wuz a high thing and th thread would
go ovah th top and come down jes so in what we call shickle. She'd have a bench so high. The
loom was high as dis door and my ma would set on the bench and her foots wuz on somethin like
a bicycle and when she put her foots on de pedal dat shickle would come open and make a blum
blum an that would make a yard of cloth, an she'd mash the pedal agin and another yard of cloth.
Jes so we'd make eight and ten yards of cloth in one day. An when hit wuz made we would carry
hit to de white fokes. Dey would make us clo'es outn dat cloth. Ifn dey wanted colored cloth
dey would dye de thread. Dey had what we called a loom dat would make, le' me see now, Card
would card the cotton, and de looms would make de thread and de shickle would make de cloth,
as well as ah can recollect we would make little roll uv cotton on de cards an put it on de
loom and make thread. De looms was jes so long. Ever time the wheel would say o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o
we had a spool uv thread. Ah don' know whar dey got the spools, made em tho ah guess. Ah jes
caint tell you how hit wuz hits so much.

De Newton's nevah did whup me. She started to whup me tho one day. Ah kin recollect bout de
dogs. There wuz one dog whut wuz called Dinah. But yo know dey had ten uv em. One day ole Uncle
Henry Jones done somethin and run off and climbed a tree and de Newton's miss him so dey called
de dogs and dey went on to de tree. Dat very tree wha he wuz and stopped. Uncle Henry had been
gone all dat mornin and dem dogs track him right dere, to de spot and wouldn let him down till
de Newtons come. An chile dem Newtons whip de skin off Uncle Herny's [TR: Henry's] back. Dem
dogs would git yo.

Mrs. Newton nevah got outn de bed no time. Ah would lift her from one bed to de utha to make
de beds and when she got ready to get dressed ah would bath her and dress huh all de times.

Ah'll tell yo nother funny joke bout Henry Johnson. He had ter clean up mos uv de time. So
Mrs. Newton's dress wuz hangin in de room up on de wall and when he come out he said to ole
Uncle Jerry, he said: "Jerry guess whut ah done" and Jerry said: "Whut?" And Uncle Henry said:
"Ah put mah han undah ole Mistess dress." Uncle Jerry said: "Whut did she say?" Uncle Henry
say: "She didn' say nothin." So Uncle Jerry cided he'd try hit. So he went draggin on in de
house. Set down on de floor by ole mistess. Ater while he run his han' up under huh dress and
old marster jumped up and jumped on Jerry and like to beat him ter death. Jerry went out cryin
and got out and called Henry. He said: "Henry ah though yo said yo put yo hand undah ole Mistess's
dress and she didn' say nothin." Uncle Henry said: "Ah did and she didn' say nuthin." Jerry
said: "Ah put mah han' undah huh dress and ole marster like tuh beat me ter death." Uncle Henry
said: "Yo crazy thing huh dress wuz hangin up on de wall when ah put mah han up undah hit."

We didn' eat eggs only on Sunday mornin. Me and mah sis et together in de same plate. We didn
know whut knives and forkes wuz den. We et wid our fingahs.

Ah had a good ole pa too. He died a long time ago. Ah member one night he started tuh whoop
mah brudder and mah pa and mah brudder had hit. So mah brudder runned off, an de marster called
ole Dinah, Dinah wuz a dog yo know but Dinah was a big dog ovah the other dogs yo know and
dem dogs went and got me brudder and dem Newtons sho did beat him. But twasnt long befo mah
pa taken sick and died aftuh dat. An when we wuz goin ter bury mah pa lamme tell yo what happened:
Two turtle doves flew roun the wagon three times, den dey flew right on top uv mah pa's coffin
box an hollered three times; and yo know mah sistuh died bout three days aftuh dat. Ah didn'
bleave in signs till den. Ah know mah pa always bleaved in signs cause ah know when hit would
start lightnin and thunderin round dat place of ourn mah pa would always make us stop. He say
twas bad luck. An ah know when evah a dove would holler at night he'd tell us jes tuh tie a
knot in th' south cornuh uv de sheet and he would hush. An we would do hit an he would hush.
Yo kno hits bad luck fuh dem tuh holler roun yo place.

Oh we use ter have lots o sheep, at least ole mistess did. We made all of our wool clothes
from dem sheeps wool and let me tell yo somethin else, ah think ah got some sheep wool in mah
trunk now ah had hit fifty years. Hits good fer sores if yo has er cut on yo han' or feet or
if blood poison set up jes take a little piece of dat wool an put a piece of fire on hit and
[HW: put] some [HW: on] the sore parts and chile, honey, hit will git well right now.

Chile ah had use ter ruther go ter dances than ter eat. Ah'd go ter dances an git early dare
and heah dem fiddles. Uh, my! ah jus couldn make mah foots act right. We use ter dance sixteen
sets. We'd be er dancing and hit would sound so good. Someone would say swing de one yo love
bes but ah wouldn swing de one ah love best cause ah didn want anyone tah know him.

On Sunday mornin dats when we play. Ole marster would put a rope cross fer us ter jump and
we'd line up. The rope wuz bout five feet high and chile if we didn' jump it we'd catch hit.
O-o-o-o-oooo. We had ter run. He line up two at a time an he say one fuh de money, two fuh
de show, three tuh make ready and fo' tuh go. An yo talk bout runnin. We had ter run. He would
make us box and de one dat git whooped is de one dat would haft ter box till he got whooped
and we had ter whoop three times befo' stoppin. Oh chile, ah had a time when ah miz a chile.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Luke D. Dixon
                    DeValls Bluff, Ark.
Age: 81

"My father's owner was Jim Dixon in Elmo County, Virginia. That is where I was born. I am 81
years old. Jim Dixon had several boys--Baldwin and Joe. Joe took some of the slaves, his pa
give him, and went to New Mexico to shun the war. Uncle and pa went in the war as waiters.
They went in at the ending up. We lived on the big road that run to the Atlantic Ocean. Not
far from Richmond. Ma lived three or four miles from Pa. She lived across big creek--now they
call it Farrohs Run. Ma belong to Harper Williams. Pa's folks was very good but Ma's folks
was unpleasant.

"Ma lived to be 103 years old. Pa died in 1905 and was 105 years old. I used to set on Grandma's
lap and she told me about how they used to catch people in Africa. They herded them up like
cattle and put them in stalls and brought them on the ship and sold them. She said some they
captured they left bound till they come back and sometimes they never went back to get them.
They died. They had room in the stalls on the boat to set down or lie down. They put several
together. Put the men to themselves and the women to themselves. When they sold Grandma and
Grandpa at a fishing dock called New Port, Va., they had their feet bound down and their hands
bound crossed, up on a platform. They sold Grandma's daughter to somebody in Texas. She cried
and begged to let them be together. They didn't pay no 'tenshion to her. She couldn't talk
but she made them know she didn't want to be parted. Six years after slavery they got together.
When a boat was to come in people come and wait to buy slaves. They had several days of selling.
I never seen this but that is the way it was told to me.

"The white folks had an iron clip that fastened the thumbs together and they would swing the
man or woman up in a tree and whoop them. I seen that done in Virginia across from where I
lived. I don't know what the folks had done. They pulled the man up with block and tackle.

"Another thing I seen done was put three or four chinquapin switches together green, twist
them and dry them. They would cry like a leather whip. They whooped the slaves with them.

"Grandpa was named Sam Abraham and Phillis Abraham was his mate. They was sold twice. Once
she was sold away from her husband to a speculator. Well, it was hard on the Africans to be
treated like cattle. I never heard of the Nat Turner rebellion. I have heard of slaves buying
their own freedom. I don't know how it was done. I have heard of folks being helped to run
off. Grandma on mother's side had a brother run off from Dalton, Mississippi to the North.
After the war he come to Virginia.

"When freedom was declared we left and went to Wilmington and Wilson, North Carolina. Dixon
never told us we was free but at the end of the year he gave my father a gray mule he had ploughed
for a long time and part of the crop. My mother jes picked us up and left her folks now. She
was cooking then I recollect. Folks jes went wild when they got turned loose.

"My parents was first married under a twenty-five cents license law in Virginia. After freedom
they was remarried under a new law and the license cost more but I forgot how much. They had
fourteen children to my knowing. After the war you could register under any name you give yourself.
My father went by the name of Right Dixon and mother Jilly Dixon.

"The Ku Klux was bad. They was a band of land owners what took the law in hand. I was a boy.
I scared to be caught out. They took the place of pattyrollers before freedom.

"I never went to public school but two days in my life. I went to night school and paid Mr.
J.C. Price and Mr. S.H. Vick to teach me. My father got his leg shot off and I had to work.
It kept me out of meanness. Work and that woman has kept me right. I come to Arkansas, brought
my wife and one child, April 5, 1889. We come from Wilson, North Carolina. Her people come
from North Carolina and Moultrie, Georgia.

"I do vote. I sell eggs or a little something and keep my taxes paid up. It look like I'm the
kind of folks the government would help--them that works and tries hard to have something--but
seems like they don't get no help. They wouldn't help me if I was bout to starve. I vote a
Republican ticket."

NOTE: On the wall in the dining room, used as a sitting room, was a framed picture of Booker
T. Washington and Teddy Roosevelt sitting at a round-shaped hotel dining table ready to be
served. Underneath the picture in large print was "Equality." I didn't appear to ever see the
picture.

This negro is well-fixed for living at home. He is large and very black, but his wife is a
light mulatto with curly, nearly-straightened hair.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Martha Ann Dixon (mulatto)
                    DeValls Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81

"I am eighty-one years old. I was born close to Saratoga, North Carolina. My mother died before
I can recollect and my grandmother raised me. They said my father was a white man. They said
Jim Beckton. I don't recollect him. My mother was named Mariah Tyson.

"I recollect how things was. My grandmother was Miss Nancy Tyson's cook. She had one son named
Mr. Seth Tyson. He run her farm. They et in the dining room, we et in the kitchen. Clothes
and something to eat was scarce. I worked at whatever I was told to do. Grandma told me things
to do and Miss Nancy told me what to do. I went to the field when I was pretty little. Once
my uncle left the mule standing out in the field and went off to do something else. It come
up a hard shower. I crawled under the mule. If I had been still it would been all right but
my hair stood up and tickled the mule's stomach. The mule jumped and the plough hit me in my
hip here at the side. It is a wonder I didn't get killed.

"After the Civil War was times like now. Money scarce and prices high, and you had to start
all over new. Pigs was hard to start, mules and horses was mighty scarce. Seed was scarce.
Everything had to be started from the stump. Something to eat was mighty plain and scarce and
one or two dresses a year had to do. Folks didn't study about going so much.

"I had to rake up leaves and fetch em to the barn to make beds for the little pigs in cold
weather. The rake was made out of wood. It had hickory wood teeth and about a foot long. It
was heavy. I put my leaves in a basket bout so high [three or four feet high]. I couldn't tote
it--I drug it. I had to get leaves in to do a long time and wait till the snow got off before
I could get more. It seem like it snowed a lot. The pigs rooted the leaves all about in day
and back up in the corners at night. It was ditched all around. It didn't get very muddy. Rattle
snakes was bad in the mountains. I used to tote water--one bucketful on my head and one bucketful
in each hand. We used wooden buckets. It was lot of fun to hunt guinea nests and turkey nests.
When other little children come visiting that is what we would do. We didn't set around and
listen at the grown folks. We toted up rocks and then they made rock rows [terraces] and rock
fences about the yard and garden. They looked so pretty. Some of them would be white, some
gray, sometimes it would be mixed. They walled wells with rocks too. All we done or knowed
was work. When we got tired there was places to set and rest. The men made plough stocks and
hoe handles and worked at the blacksmith shop in snowy weather. I used to pick up literd [HW:
lightwood] knots and pile them in piles along the road so they could take them to the house
to burn. They made a good light and kindling wood.

"They didn't whoop Grandma but she whooped me a plenty.

"After the war some white folks would tell Grandma one thing and some others tell her something
else. She kept me and cooked right on. I didn't know what freedom was. Seemed like most of
them I knowed didn't know what to do. Most of the slaves left the white folks where I was raised.
It took a long time to ever get fixed. Some of them died, some went to the cities, some up
North, some come to new country. I married and come to Fredonia, Arkansas in 1889. I had been
married since I was a young girl. But as I was saying the slaves was still hunting a better
place and more freedom. The young folks is still hunting a better place and more freedom. Grandma
learnt me to set down and be content. We have done better out here than we could done in North
Carolina but I don't believe in so much rambling.

"We come on the passenger train and paid our own way to Arkansas. It was a wild and sickly
country and has changed. Not like living in the same country. I try to live like the white
folks and Grandma raised me. I do like they done. I think is the reason we have saved and have
good a living as we got. We do on as little as we can and save a little for the rainy day."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Railroad Dockery
                    1103 Short 13th, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 81

"Railroad Dockery, that's my name. I belonged to John Dockery and we lived at Lamertine, Arkansas
where I was born. My mother's name was Martha and I am one of quadruplets, three girls and
one boy, that's me. Red River, Ouachita, Mississippi and Railroad were our names. (Mrs. Mary
Browning, who is now ninety-eight years of age, told me that her father, John Dockery, was
the president of the Mississippi, Red River, Ouachita Railroad, the first one to be surveyed
in Arkansas, and that when the directors heard of the quadruplets' birth, they wanted to name
them after the railroad, which was done--ed.)

"Yes ma'm, Red River and Ouachita died when they were tots and Mississippi and Railroad were
raised. Now that's what my mother said. Mississippi died five or six years ago and I'm the
onliest one left.

"I remember mighty little about the war. I never thought anything about the war. All I did
then was a crowd of us little chaps would go to the woods and tote in the wood every day for
the cook woman. That's what I followed. Never did nothing else but play till after the war.

"After surrender I went with my father and mother to work for General Tom Dockery. He was John
Dockery's brother. I was big enough to plow then. I followed the plow all the time. My father
and mother were paid for their work. We stayed there about five years and then moved to Falcon,
Arkansas. Father died there.

"In the time of the war I heard the folks talkin' about freedom, and I heard my father talk
about the Ku Klux but that was all I knowed, just what he said about it.

"I remember the presidents and I voted for some of them but oh Lord, I haven't voted in several
years.

"I got along after freedom just as well as I ever did. I never had no trouble--never been in
no trouble.

"About the world now--it looks like to me these days things are pretty tight. I could hardly
tell you what I think of the younger generation. I think one thing--if the old heads would
die all at once they would be out, because it's all you can do to keep em straight now.

"I went to school only three months in my life. I learned to read and write very well. I don't
need glasses and I read principally the Bible. To my mind it is the best book in the world.
Biggest part of the preachers now won't preach unless they are paid three-fourths more than
they are worth.

"The biggest part of my work was farming. I never did delight in cooking. Now I can do any
kind of housework, but don't put me to cooking.

"I just can't sing to do no good. Never could sing. Seems like when I try to sing something
gets tangled in my throat.

"Oh Lord, I remember one old song they used to sing

  'A charge to keep I have
   A God to glorify.'

"I don't remember anything else but now if Mississippi was here, she could tell you lots of
things."

Interviewer: Irene Robertson Subject: Ex-slave Information given by: Callie Donalson, Biscoe,
Arkansas

Story

I wasn't born in slavery but I was born in the white folks kitchen. Bob Walker was ma mother's
Master and James Austin ma father's Master. They said he wasn't good to none of dem, he was
mighty tight. Now ma mothers white folks was sho good to her. When de war was all over me family
jined and worked fer people not berry far from ma mother's masters. There was two brothers
and a sister older than me. She thought her white folks do better by her than anybody so she
went back to em during her pregnancy and thats how come I was born in der kitchen a white mid-wife
tended on er. I never will forget her. She was named Mrs. Coffee. There wasn't many doctors
in the whole country then. I was born in Haywood county Tennessee in 1866. No'm I tell you
when you first come I wasn't born in slavery. My white mistress named me, the young mistress,
she named me Callie. Bob Walkers girl married Ben Geeter. I was right in Ben Geeters kitchen
when Miss Sallie named me. They seemed proud of the little black babies.

Ma mother was a field hand and she washed and ironed. She was a good spinner. She carded and
wove and spun all. She knitted too. She knitted mostly by nite. All the stockings and gloves
had to be knit. She sewed and I learned from her. We had to sew with our fingers.

When I was a little girl I just set around, brought in wood. Yes maam we did play and I had
some dolls, I was proud of my dolls, just rag dolls. We use to drive the calves up. If they
didn't come up they sent the dog fur de cows. One of dem wore a bell. They had shepherd dogs,
long haired, gentle dogs, to fetch the cows when they didn't come.

Ma folks farmed in Tennessee till I married and den we farmed. Agents jess kept comin after
us to get us to come to this rich country. They say: hogs jess walking round with knife and
forks stickin in der backs beggin somebody to eat em over in Arkansas.

No'm I aint seed none lack dat, I seed em down in the swamps what you could saw a good size
saplin down wid der backbones. I says I mean I seed plenty raysor back hogs, and long noses
and long straight ears. I show have since I come here. The land was so poor in Tennessee and
this was uncleared land so we come to a new country. It show is rich land. They use guano back
in Tennessee now or they couldn't raise nuthin. Abe Miller an old slave owner what we worked
wid come out here. He was broke and he paid our way. We come on the Josie Harry boat. Der was
several families sides us come wid him. He done fine out here--we got off the boat at Augusta
and I worked up there in Woodruff county till ma husbands brother's wife died and he had a
farm his own. We raised his boys and our family till dey was ob age. I left em. They went in
big business here in Biscoe and lost de farm and everything. Ma husband died I lives with ma
girl. I got one boy married lives in Chicago, and a girl up there too. No'm dey aint rich.
Dem his children come home wid ma daughters on a visit--Little Yankees ain't got no manners.

I voted one time in ma life, in 1933, for Hoover. I don't know nothing about voting. I can
read. I reads ma Bible. Ma young mistress learnt me to read. I never got to go to school much.
Whut my young mistress learnt me was ma A B C's and how to call words. Yes maam I can write
ma name but I forgot how to write, been so long since I wrote a letter.

All the songs I ever sung was "In Dixie" "Little Brown Jug" an mostly religious songs, Lawd
I forgot em now. I never knowd about no slave uprisings--white folks alway good to us. We misses
em now. Times not lack dey use to be.

Dese young generations don't take no interest in nothin no mo. Its kinder kritical. No use
trying to tell em nuthin. Dey's getting an education I don't know whut thell do with it. If
dey had somebody to manage fur them seem like they kaint kandle no business without getting
broke. They work hard and make some seems lack they jes kaint keep nuthin. No'om I don't think
they are so bad.

In 1893 me and ma husband worked on our own place till we come down here we sold it and went
on his brothers place. I owns ma house thats all. Ma daughters help me and we get a little
provisions and clothes along from the relief. If I could work I wouldn't ax nobody for no help.
I jess past working much.

I jess don't know what is going to become of the present generation. The conditions are better
than they use to be, heap better. They have no education and don't have to work as hard as
we use to. They seems so restless and don't take no interest in nothin. They are all right.
It is jess the times an the Bible full filling fast as it can.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Charles Green Dortch
                    804 Victory Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 81

[HW: Father a Pet]

"I was born June 18, 1857. The reason I don't show my age is because I got Scotch-Irish, Indian,
and Negro mixed up in me. I was born in Princeton--that is, near Princeton--in Dallas County.
Princeton is near Fordyce. I was born on Hays' farm. Hays was my second master--Archie Hays.
Dortch was my first master. He brought my parents from Richmond, Virginia, and he settled right
in Princeton.

"My father's name was Reuben Rainey Dortch. He was an octoroon I guess. He looked more like
a Cuban than a Negro. He had beautiful wavy hair, naturally wavy. He was tall, way over six
feet, closer to seven. His father was Dortch. Some say Rainey. But he must have been a Dortch;
he called himself Dortch, and we go in the name of Dortch. Rainey was a white man employed
on Dortch's plantation. Rainey's name was Wilson Rainey. My name has always been Dortch.

"My mother was named Martha Dortch. I am trying to think what her maiden name was. My sister
can tell you all the details of it. She is five years older than I am. She can tell you all
the old man's folks and my mother's too more easily than I can.

"My father had, as nearly as I can remember--lemme see--Cordelia, Adrianna, Mary, Jennie, Emma,
and Dortch. Emma and Dortch were children by a first wife. Cordelia was his stepdaughter. My
brothers were Alec and Gabe. There is probably some I have overlooked.

"The Indian blood in me came through my mother's father. He was a full-blooded red Indian.
I can't think of his name now. Her mother was a dark woman.

"My father was a carpenter, chair maker, and a farmer too. All the work he did after peace
was declared was carpentry and chair and basket making. He made coffins too just after peace
was declared. They didn't have no undertakers then. He made the bottoms to chairs too. He could
put a roof on a house beautifully and better than any one I know. Nobody could beat him putting
shingles on a house.

"My mother was reared to work in the house. She was cook, housekeeper. She was a weaver too.
She worked the loom and the spinning wheel. She gardened a little. But her work was mostly
in the house as cook and weaver. She never went out in the field as a hand. My father didn't
either.

Kind Masters

"My father seemed to have been more of a pet than a slave. He was a kind of boss more than
anything else. He had his way. Nobody was allowed to mistreat him in any way. My mother was
the same way. I don't think she was ever mistreated in any way by the white folks--not that
I ever saw.

Attitude of Slaves Toward Father

"There wasn't any unfriendliness of the other slaves toward my father. My oldest sister can
tell you with clearness, but I don't think he ever had any trouble with the other slaves any
more than he had with the white folks. He was well liked, and then too he was able to take
care of himself. Then again, he had a good master. Hays was a good man. We made a trip down
there just a short while ago. We hadn't been there since the Civil War. They made it so pleasant
for us! We all set down to the same table and ate together. Frank was down there. He was my
young master.

Thirty Acres--not Forty

"They gave us thirty acres of land when we came out of slavery. They didn't give it to us right
then, but they did later. I am going down there again sometime. My young master is the postmaster
down there now. He thinks the world and all of me and my oldest sister.

"I don't mind telling people anything about myself. I was born in June. They ain't nothing
slipping up on me. I understand when to talk. There are two of us, Adrianna Kern--that's her
married name. She and I are the ones Mr. Frank gave the thirty acres to. I have a younger sister.

Slave Work

"I don't know how much cotton a slave was expected to pick in a day. The least I ever heard
of was one hundred fifty pounds. Some would pick as high as three and four hundred pounds.

"My father was not a field hand. He was what they called the first man 'round there. He was
a regular leader on the plantation--boss of the tool room. He was next to the master of them,
you might say. He was a kind of boss.

"I never heard of his working for other men besides his master. I believe he drove the stage
for a time from Arkadelphia to Camden or Princeton. I don't know just how that come about.
My sister though has a more exact remembrance than I have, and she can probably tell you the
details of it.

Boyhood Experiences

"My father used to take me to the mill with him when I was a kid. That was in slavery time.
He went in a wagon and took me with him.

"The biggest thing I did was to play with the other kids. They had me do such work as pick
berries, hunt up the stock, drive the sheep home from the pasture. And as near as I can remember
it seems like they had me more picking berries or gathering peaches or something like that.

Food, Houses, Clothes

"Corn bread, buttermilk and bacon and all such as that and game--that was the principal food.
The people on our place were fed pretty well. We lived off of ash cakes and biscuits.

"The slaves lived in old log houses. I can almost see them now. Let's see--they usually had
just one window. The slaves slept on pallets mostly and wore long cotton shirts.

Patrollers

"I have heard a great deal of talk about the pateroles--how they tied ropes across the road
and trapped them. Sometimes they would be knocked off their horses and crippled up so that
they had to be carried off from there. Of course, that was sometimes. They was always halting
the slaves and questioning them and whipping them if they didn't have passes.

How Freedom Came

"The way I understand it there came a rumor all at once that the Negroes were free. It seems
that they throwed up their hands. They had a great fight at Pine Bluff and Helena and De Valls
Bluff. Then came peace. The rumor came from Helena. Meade and Thomas winded the thing up some
way. Sherman made his march somewhere. The colored soldiers and the white soldiers came pouring
in from Little Rock. They come in a rush and said, 'Tell them niggers they're free.' They run
into the masters' and notified them they were going to take all the Negroes to Little Rock.
It wasn't no time afterwards before here come the teams and the wagons to take us to Little Rock.

"When they brought us here, they put us in soldiers' camps in a row of houses up just west
of where the Arch street graveyard is now. They put us all there in the soldiers' buildings.
They called them camps. They seemed to be getting us ready for freedom. It wasn't long before
they had us in school and in church. The Freedmen's Bureau visited us and gave us rations just
like the Government has been doing these last years. They gave us food and clothes and books
and put us in school. That was all done right here in Little Rock.

Schooling

"My first teacher was Miss Sarah Henley. I could show you the home she used to live in. It's
right up the street. It's on Third Street between Izard and State right in the middle of the
block--next to the building on the corner of Izard on the south side of Third Street. There
is a brick building there on the corner and her house is a very pretty one right next to it.
She was a white woman and was my first teacher. She taught me, as near as I can remember, one
session. My next teacher was Mrs. Hunt. She was from Ohio. My first teacher was from Ohio too.
Mrs. Hunt taught me about two sessions. Lemme see, Mrs. Clapp came after her. She was from
Pennsylvania. Mrs. Clapp taught me one session. I am trying to think of that other teacher.
We went over to Union School then. Charlotte Andrews taught us there for a while. That was
her maiden name. Her married name is Stephens. She was the first colored teacher in the city.
Mrs. Hubbard teached us a while, too. Mrs. Scull taught us right here on Gaines and Seventh
Streets where this church is now. They moved us a long time ago down to the Mess House at the
Rock Island for a while but we didn't stay there long. We came back to the Methodist church--the
one on Eighth and Broadway, not the Bethel Church on Ninth and Broadway. There was a colored
church on Eighth and Broadway then. They kept sweeping us 'round because the schools were all
crowded. Woods, a colored man, was one of the teachers at Capitol Hill Public School. We were
there when it first opened. That was the last school I went to. I finished eight grades. Me
and Scipio Jones went to school together and were in the same class. I left him in school and
went to work to take care of my folks.

Occupational Experiences

"Right after the Civil War, I went to school. I did no work except to sell papers and black
boots on the corner of Main and Markham on Sunday. After I stopped school I went to work as
assistant porter in the railroad office at the Union Station for the St. Louis, Iron Mountain,
Southern Railway and Cairo and Fulton. That was one road or system. I stayed with them from
1873 till 1882 in the office as office porter. From that I went train porter out of the office
in 1882. I stayed as train porter till 1892. Then right back from 1892 I went in the general
superintendent's private car. Then from there I went to the shop here in North Little Rock--the
Missouri Pacific Shops--as a straw boss of the storeroom gang. That was in 1893. I stayed in
the shop until 1894. Then I was transferred back on this side as coach cleaner. That was in
1895. I stayed as coach cleaner till 1913. From that I went to the State Capitol and stayed
there as janitor of the Supreme Court for three years. In 1917, I went back to the coach cleaning
department. That was during the war. I stayed there till 1922. I come out on the strike and
have been out ever since. Since then I have done house cleaning all over the city. That brings
me up to about two years ago. Now I pick up something here and something there. I have been
knocking around sick most of the time and supported by the Relief and the Welfare principally.

Ku Klux Klan

"I don't remember much about the Ku Klux Klan. They never bothered me, and never bothered any
one connected with me.

Powell Clayton

"I have stood at the bar and drank with Powell Clayton. He had been 'round here ever since
we had. He was a very particular friend of my boss'--the bosses of my work after the war and
freedom. They were all Yankees together. They would all meet at the office. That was while
I was working my way through school and afterwards too. He was strictly a 'Negroes' Friend'.
He was a straight out and out Yankee.

A Broken Thumb in a Political Fight

"I got this thumb broken beating a white man up. No, I'll tell the truth. He was beating me
up and I thought he was going to kill me. It was when Benjamin Harrison had been elected President.
I was in Sol Joe's saloon and I said, 'Hurrah for Harrison.' A white man standing at the bar
there said to me, 'What do you mean, nigger, insulting the guests here?' And before I knew
what he was going to do--bop!--he knocked me up on the side of the head and put me flat on
the floor. He started to stamp me. My head was roaring, but I grabbed his legs and held them
tight against me and then we was both on the floor fighting it out. I butted him in the face
with my head and beat him in the face with my fists until he yelled for some one to come and
stop me. There was plenty of white people 'round but none of them interfered. A great commotion
set up and I slipped out the back door and went home during the excitement.

"When I went back to the saloon again after about a week or so, the fellow had left two dollars
for me to drink up. Sol Joe told me that he showed the man he was wrong, that I was one of
his best customers. To make Sol and me feel better, he left the two dollars. When I got there
and found the money waiting for me, I just called everybody in the house up to the bar and
treated it out.

"They claimed I had hit him with brass knucks, but when I showed them my hand--it was swollen
double--and then showed them how the thumb was broken, they agreed on what caused the damage.
That thumb never did set properly. You see, it's out of shape right now.

Domestic Life

"I met my wife going home. I was a train porter between here and Memphis. She was put in my
care to see that she took her train all right out of Memphis, Tennessee, going on farther.
I fell in love with her and commenced courting her right from there. She was so white in color
that you couldn't tell she was colored by looking at her. After I married her, I was bringing
her home, and three white men from another town got on the train and followed us, thinking
she was white. Every once in a while they would come back and peep in the Negro coach. Sometimes
they would come in and sit down and smoke and watch us. My sister notice it and called my attention
to it. I went to the conductor and complained. He called their hand.

"It seems that they were just buying mileage from time to time and staying on the train to
be able to get off where I got off. The conductor told them that if they went into Little Rock
with the train there would be a delegation of white people there to meet them and that the
reception wouldn't be a pleasant one, that I worked on the road, and that all the officials
knew me and knew my wife, and that if I just sent a wire ahead they'd find themselves in deep.
They got off the train at the next stop, but they gave me plenty of eye, and it looked like
they didn't believe what had been told them.

"We were married only three and a half years when she died. Her name was Lillie Love Douglass
before she married me. She was a perfect angel. White folks tried to say that she was white.
We had two children. Both of them are dead. One died while giving birth to a child and the
other died at the age of thirty-three.

"I married the second time. I met my second wife the same way I met the first. I was working
on the railroad and she was traveling. I was a coach cleaner. We lived together three years
and were separated over foolishness. She had long beautiful hair and an old friend of hers
stopped by once and said that he ought to have a lock of her hair to braid into a watch chain.
She said, 'I'll give you a lock.' I said, 'You and your hair both belong to me; how are you
going to give it away without asking me.' She might have been joking, and I was not altogether
serious. But it went on from there in to a deep quarrel. One day, I had been drinking heavily,
and we had an argument over the matter. I don't remember what it was all about. Anyway, she
called me a liar and I slapped her before I thought.

"For two or three weeks after that we stayed together just as though nothing had happened,
except that she never had anything more to say to me. She would lie beside me at night but
wouldn't say a word. One day I gave her a hundred dollars to buy some supplies for the store.
She was a wonderful hat maker, and we had put up a store which she operated while I was out
on the road working. When I came back that evening, the store was wide open and she was gone.
She had slipped off and gone home from the station across the river. I didn't find that out
till the next day. She hid during part of the night at the home of one of my friends. And another
of my friends carried her across the river and put her on the train. I was out with a shotgun
watching. I am glad I did not meet them. She is living in Chicago now, married to the man she
wanted to give the lock of hair to and doing well the last I heard from her. She was a good
woman, just marked with a high temper. There was no reason why we should not have lived together
and gotten along well. We loved each other and were making money hand over fist when we separated.

Opinions

"The young people are too much for me. Women are awful now. The young ones are too wild for
me. The old ones allow them too much freedom. They are not given proper instruction and training
by their elders."

Interviewer's Comment

Dortch's grandfather on the father's side was a white man and either his master or someone
closely connected with his master--his first master. His last master was the father of his
half-sister, Cordelia, born before any of the other members of his family. These facts account
largely for the good treatment accorded his mother and father in slave time and for the friendly
attitude toward them subsequent to slavery.

Dortch's whole sister, Adrianna, is living next door to him, and is eighty-five years old going
on eighty-six. She has a clearer memory than Dortch, and has also a clear vigorous mentality.
She never went to school but uses excellent English and thinks straight. I have not made Dortch's
interview any longer because I am spending the rest of this period on his sister's, and there
was no need of taking some material which would be common to both and more clearly stated by
her. I have already finished ten pages of her story. Know the years I plowed. Ginned cotton
in slavery time. My daddy was the ginner. His name was Hamp High. Stayed down in Lonoke County.

"I was here in slavery time. The third year of the surrender (1868), I married--married Burton
Dorum.

"I was born in Franklin, North Carolina. My old master's name was Jack Green, Franklin County.
He had five boys--Henry, John, James, Robert, and William Henry. And he had a daughter named
Mary. My old mistress' name was Jennie Green. They all came from North Carolina and I think
they are still there.

Work

"A slave better pick a hundred pounds of cotton in a day. You better pick a hundred. I couldn't
pick a hundred. I never was much on picking cotton.

"I weeded corn, planted corn and cotton, cut up wheat, pulled fodder, and did all such work.
I plowed before the War about two years. I used to have to take the horses and go hide when
the soldiers would go through. I was about nineteen years old when Lee surrendered. That would
make me somewheres about ninety-four years old. The boys figgered it all out when they had
the old age contest 'round here. They added up the times I worked and put everything together.

Family

"I raised eight children. Have five living. And I reckon about forty children, grandchildren,
great-grandchildren, and great-great-grandchildren. You see I have been here right smart time.

Schooling

"Colored folks didn't get no learning then. I never learned to read or write. Before I married,
I learned to spell my name, but I had so much to do I have forgot how to do that.

How Freedom Came

"The Yankees were coming through the place. A great crowd of soldiers. The day the corps of
Yankees were to go out, they all went up to the pike and it looked like a dark cloud. There
were great big wagons loaded down with everything to eat. They took all the meat, all the whiskey,
all the flour. That they didn't take, they give to the slaves or poured on the ground. They
took the corn out of the crib.

"The next day, old master called us up to the stand around him. He told us we were all free
and that if we would stay with him, he would pay us.

Whipping

"My old master never whipped me but once and never hit me much then. I said, 'Master, if you
don't hit me no more, I'll tell you who's been stealing all your eggs.' He said, 'Will, you
tell me, sure 'nough.' I said, 'Yes.' But I never done it.

Patrollers

"I heard about the pateroles catching the colored folks. They would catch them on the road
as they were going places and whip them. The pateroles was white folks that was supposed to
catch colored folks when they were out without a pass. Sometimes the colored folks would stretch
ropes across the road and trip them up. You would hear them laughing about it when they got
amongst themselves the next day.

House, Etc.

"I was born in a old log house--two rooms. One for the kitchen and one to sleep in. We had
homemade furniture. Mighty few of them had bought furniture. Most of then made it themselves.
If you had bought furniture, that was called fine. There was no rollers to any bed. Food was
kept in the house. Wheat was kept under the bed because they had nowhere else to keep it. Planks
were put around it. We children used to jump up and down in it.

Rations

"When the white folks got ready to give us milk, they poured it out in a tub and said, 'Come
and git it.'

"They would kill hogs and the colored folks' meat would be put back of the white folks' meat
in the smokehouse. They put the white folks' meat in the front and the colored folks' meat
in the back. When you wanted something, you would go up to old master and say, 'My meat is
out,' and they would give you some more out of the smokehouse.

"Brandy was kept in the storehouse too; but they didn't give that to the colored [TR: corrected
from 'cullud'] folks--they didn't give any of it to them. My daddy used to make it and buy
it from the white folks and slip and sell it to the colored folks. He didn't tell the white
folks who he was gettin' it for.

"You didn't have a regular time to git rations. You didn't on my place. You got things any
time you needed them. My master was a good man. My dad got anything he wanted because he was
the ginner. When he was working and it came mealtime, he would go right by the white folks'
house and git anything he wanted and eat it--brandy, meat, anything.

Slave Wages

"My daddy not only did the ginning on my place; he did the ginning for other folks. He did
the ginning for an old rich man named Jack Green, who lived in Franklin County. Jack Green
paid wages for my father's, Hampton High's, work and the money was turned over to his mistress.
I don't know whether they paid him and he turned it over to his mistress, or whether they told
him about it and paid his mistress. They trusted him and I know he did work for pay. On account
of the money my father earned he was considered a valuable slave. That's why he could go and
eat and drink anything he wanted to.

Life Since Slavery

"My husband married me in May. He went to his uncle and worked an shares for two or three years.
Then my husband took a crop to himself. He bought a cow and hog and stayed there twenty-one
years. Raised a great big orchard. All my children were born right there. White people owned
the farm. Priestley Mangham and his wife were the white people. When we left that place, my
children were all big enough to work. That was in North Carolina. The nearest town was College.

"When the white folks tried to take advantage of us and take our crops, then we left and came
here. My husband is dead and has been dead over twenty years.

"My daughters do the best they can to help me along, but they're on relief themselves and can't
do much for me.

Opinions

"The young people of today are in no good at all, except to eat. They are there on mealtime,
but that is about all."

Interviewer's Comment

About three years ago, there was an old age contest in one of the colored churches of North
Little Rock. Sister Hatchett was considered the oldest, Fannie Dorum next. Sarah Jane Patterson
was among those considered in the nineties also. It is very probable that all of these three
are ninety or more. Stories of Dorum and Patterson are already in, and interview with Hatchett
will be completed soon.

This paper fails to record Fannie Dorum's accent with any approach to accuracy. She speaks
fairly accurately and clearly and with a good deal of attention to grammaticalness. But she
pronounces all "er" ending as "uh"; e.g., nigguh, cullud, fathuh, mothuh, m(o)stuh, daughtuhs.

There are a number of variations from correct pronunciation which I do not record because they
do not constitute a variation from the normal pronunciation; e.g., "wuz" for "was", "(e)r"
for "[e]r".

The slave pronunciation of "m(o)ster" is more nearly correct than the normal pronunciation
of "m(a)ster." Frequent pronunciations are marse, marsa, m(o)ssa, m(o)stuh, and m(a)ssa.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Silas Dothrum
                    1419 Pulaski Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 82 or 83
Occupation: Field hand, general work
[May 31 1939]

[HW: Don't Know Nothin']

"The white people that owned me are all dead. I am in this world by myself. Do you know anything
that a man can put on his leg to keep the flies off it when it has sores on it? I had the city
doctor here, but he didn't do me no good. I have to tie these rags around my foot to keep the
flies off the sores.

"I worked with a white man nineteen years--put all that concrete down out there. He is still
living. He helps me a little sometimes. If it weren't for him I couldn't live. The government
allows me and my wife together eight dollars a month. I asked for more, but I couldn't get
it. I get commodities too. They amount to about a dollar and a half a month. They don't give
any flour or meat. Last month they gave some eggs and those were nice. What they give is a
help to a man in my condition.

"I don't know where I was born and I don't know when. I know I am eighty-two or eighty-three
years old. The white folks that raised me told me how old I was. I never saw my father and
my mother in my life. I don't know nothin'. I'm Just on old green man. I don't know none of
my kin people--father, mother, uncles, cousins, nothin'. When I found myself the white people
had me.

"That was right down here in Arkansas here on old Dick Fletcher's farm. There was a big family
of them Fletchers. They took me to Harriet Lindsay to raise. She is dead. She had a husband
and he is dead. She had two or three daughters and they are dead.

Slave Houses

"I can remember what they used to live in. The slaves lived in old wooden houses. They ain't
living in no houses now--one-half of them. They were log houses--two rooms. I have forgot what
kind of floors--dirt, I guess. Food was kept in a smokehouse.

Relatives

"The whole family of Fletchers is dead. I think that there is a Jef Fletcher living in this
town. I don't know just where but I met him sometime ago. He doesn't do nothing for me. Nobody
gives me anything for myself but the man I used to work for--the concrete man. He's a man.

How Freedom Came

"All I remember is that they boxed us all up in covered wagons and carried us to Texas and
kept us there till freedom came. Then they told us we were free and could go where wanted.
But they kept me in bondage and a girl that used to be with them. We were bound to them that
we would have to stay with them. They kept me just the same as under bondage. I wasn't allowed
no kind of say-so.

"After Dick Fletcher died, his wife and his two children fetched us back--fetched us back in
a covered wagon.

"I am a Arkansas man. Was raised here. I am very well known here, too. Some years after that
she turned us loose. I can't remember just how many years it was, but it was a good many.

Right After the War

"After Mrs. Fletcher turned us loose, we worked with some families. I was working by the year.
If I broke anything they took it out of my wages. If I broke a plow they would charge me for
it. I was working for niggers. I can't remember how much they paid, but it wasn't anything
when they got through taking out. I'm dogged if I know how much they were supposed to pay;
it has been so long. But I know that if I broke anything--a tool or something--they charged
me for it. I didn't have much at the end of the year. It would take me a lifetime to make anything
if I had to do that.

Patrollers

"I have been out in the bushes when the pateroles would come up and gone into log houses and
get niggers and whip their asses. They would surround all the niggers and make them go into
the house where they could whip them as much as they wanted to. All that is been years and
years ago. I never seen any niggers get away from them. I have heared of them getting away,
but if they did I never knowed it.

Ku Klux Klan

"I heared of the Ku Klux, but they never bothered me. I never saw them do anything to anybody.

Recollections Relating to Parents

"I don't know who my parents were, but it seems like I heard them say my father was a white
man, and I seen to remember that they said my mother was a dark woman.

Opinions

"The young people today ain't worth a shit. These young people going to school don't mean good
to nobody. They dance all the night and all the time, and do everything else. That man across
the street runs a whiskey house where they dance and do everything they're big enough to do.
They ain't worth nothing."

Interviewer: Pernella M. Anderson
Person interviewed: Sarah Douglas
                    Route 2, Box 19-A, El Dorado, Arkansas
Age: 82?

[TR: The Library of Congress photo archive notes "'Tom' written in
 pencil above 'Sam' in title."]

"I was born in Alabama. I don't know when though. I did not find out when I was born because
old miss never told me. My ma died when I was real small and my old miss raised me. I had a
hard time of my life. I slept on the floor just like a cat--anywhere I laid down I slept. In
winter I slept on rags. If I got sick old miss would give me plenty of medicine because she
wanted me to stay well in order to work. My old master was name John Buffett and old misses
name was Eddie Buffett. She would fix my bread and licker in a tin lid and shove it to me on
the floor. I never ate at the table until I was twelve and that was after freedom.

"To whip me she put my head between the two fence rails and she taken the cow hide whip and
beat me until I couldn't sit down for a week. Sometimes she tied our hands around a tree and
tie our neck to the tree with our face to the tree and they would get behind us with that cow
hide whip with a piece of lead tied to the end and lord have mercy! child, I shouted when I
wasn't happy. All I could say was, 'Oh pray, mistress, pray.' That was our way to say Lord
have mercy. The last whipping old miss give me she tied me to a tree and oh my Lord! old miss
whipped me that day. That was the worse whipping I ever got in my life. I cried and bucked
and hollered until I couldn't. I give up for dead and she wouldn't stop. I stop crying and
said to her, 'Old miss, if I were you and you were me I wouldn't beat you this way.' That struck
old miss's heart and she let me go and she did not have the heart to beat me any more.

"I did every kind of work when I was a little slave; split rails, sprouted, ditched, plowed,
chopped, and picked and planted.

"I remember young master going to war and I remember hearing the first gun shoot but I did
not see it. I saw the smoke though.

"I never went to school a day in my life. The white folks said we did not need to learn, if
we needed to learn anything they could learn us with that cow hide whip.

"We went to the white folks' church, so we sit in the back on the floor. They allowed us to
join their church whenever one got ready to join or felt that the Lord had forgiven them of
their sins. We told our determination; this is what we said: 'I feel that the Lord have forgiven
me for my sins. I have prayed and I feel that I am a better girl. I belong to master so and
so and I am so old.' The white preacher would then ask our miss and master what they thought
about it and if they could see any change. They would get up and say: 'I notice she don't steal
and I notice she don't lie as much and I notice she works better.' Then they let us join. We
served our mistress and master in slavery-time and not God.

"I recollect miss died just after the War. Old miss was very strict on us and after she died
we was so glad we had a big dance in miss's kitchen and old miss came back and slapped one
of the slaves and left the print of her hand on her face. That white hand never did go away
and that place was forever haunted after that.

"Now I don't know how to tell you to get after my age but I was twelve years old two years
after surrender."

Interviewer: Carol Graham Subject: Ex-slaves Information given by: Sarah Douglas, El Dorado,
Arkansas

Mornin' honey. I thought you wuz comin' back tuh see me ergin las' summer an' I looked fuh
you the longes' time. I'se plum proud tuh see you ergin. Dis other lady ain't de one that wuz
wid you las' summer is she?

Now jes lis'en tuh that will yuh, she wants Aunt Sarah tuh tell huh some more 'bout slave'y
times. John Bufford wuz mah marster's name. I wuz bo'n in Alabama an' brought to Louisiana
by my marster's fambly. Aftuh de wah he freed us an' some of 'em mixed up in politics an' the
white folks from the North fooled 'em into makin speeches fuh 'em, but dey soon learnt bettuh.

I ain't been well lately. The doctuh said I had slamatory rheumatis. I'm ol' now end don' have
nobody tuh do nothin fuh me. My mistress wuz mammy in de ol' days.

Aftuh I got up fum mah rheumatism I went down tuh that church you sees, I give de lan' fuh
hit, me and Tom did and I jes felt good and wanted tuh praise the Lord. I wuz so glad the sperit
come once more, I got happy and I got up and went down tuh de fron' and said; "I want to shake
hand wid ever' body in dis house. I wanna stroke yo hand." An' I stood down there at the front
so happy an' duh yuh know one little chile and two women come down an' shook hands wid me,
I jes didn't know whut tuh think. Yoh know when I wuz young and a body got happy evuh body
did an' dey made a noise but not so now. An' tuh think dey couldn't turn praises.

You say yo' wants tuh talk tuh Tom? Well he's out dar in de back yard but he aint well and
I specks he won't talk tuh but if you mus' come on. Tom here is a lady wants tuh talk tuh you.
I'll go back an talk tuh de lady whuts waitin' in de car.

(The above written just as Sarah Douglas expressed it). I was eighteen years of age at surrender.
My master and missus was B.B. Thomas and Miss Susan Thomas. Old master had a gang of slaves
and we all worked like we were putting out fire. Lord child, wasn't near like it is now. We
went to bed early and got up early. There was a gang of plow hands, hoe hands, hands to clear
new ground, a bunch of cooks, a washwoman. We worked too and didn't mind it. If we acted like
we didn't want to work, our hands was crossed and tied and we was tied to a tree or bush and
whipped until we bled. They had a whipping post that they tied us to to whip us.

"We was sold just like hogs and cows and stock is sold today. They built nigger pens like you
see cow pens and hog pens. They drove niggers in there by the hundred and auctioned them off
to the highest bidder. The white folks kept up with our age so when they got ready to sell
us they could tell how old we were. They had a 'penetenture' for the white folks when they
did wrong. When we done wrong we was tied to that whipping post and our hide busted open with
that cow hide.

"We stayed out in the field in a log house and old master would allowance our week's rations
out to us and Sunday morning we got one biscuit each. If our week's allowance give out before
the week we did not get any more.

"Cooked on fireplaces, wasn't no stoves. We did not have to worry about our clothes. Old missus
looked after everything. We wore brogan shoes and homespun clothes. There was a bunch of women
that did the spinning and weaving just like these sewing room women are now. I was a shoe maker.
I made all the shoes during the time we wasn't farming. We had to go nice and clean. If old
missus caught us dirty our hide was busted. I got slavery time scars on my back now. You ought
to see my back. Scars been on my back for seventy-five years.

"I never went to school a day in my life. I learned my ABC'S after I was nineteen years old.
I went to night school, then to a teacher by the name of Nelse Otom. I was the first nigger
to join the church on this side of the Mason and Dixie line. During slavery we all joined the
white folk's church set in the back. After slavery in 1866 they met in conference and motioned
to turn all of the black sheep out then. There was four or five they turned out here and four
or five there, so we called our preacher and I was the first one to join. Old master asked
our preacher what we paid him to preach to us. We told him old shoes and clothes. Old master
says, 'Well, that's damn poor pay.' Our preacher says, 'And they got a damn poor preacher.'

"I did not know anything about war. Only I know it began in 1861, closed in 1865, and I know
they fought at Vicksburg. That was two or three hundred miles from us but we could not keep
our dishes upon the table whenever they shot a bomb. Those bombs would jar the house so hard
and we could see the smoke that far.

"We was allowed to visit Saturday night and Sunday. If you had a wife you could go to see her
Wednesday night and Saturday night and stay with her until Monday morning and if you were caught
away any other time the patrollers would catch you. That is where the song come from, 'Run
nigger run, don't the patarolls will catch you.' Sometimes a nigger would run off and the nigger
dogs would track them. In slavery white folks put you together. Just tell you to go on and
go to bed with her or him. You had to stay with them whether you wanted them or not.

"After freedom old master called all us slaves and told us we was free, opened a big gate and
drove us all out. We didn't know what to do--not a penny, nowhere to go--so we went out there
and set down. In about thirty minutes master came back and told us if we wanted to finish the
crop for food and clothes we could, so we all went back and finished the crop and the next
year they gave us half. So ever' since then we people been working for half.

"Here is one of my boy songs:

  'Sadday night and Sunday too,
   A pretty girl on my mind
   As soon as Monday morning come
   The white folks get me gwi-ng.'"

[HW: Regrets End of Slavery] OLD SLAVE STORIES

[TR: Sarah and Tom Douglas]

[TR: Aunt Sarah Douglas]--Ah wuz baptized de second year of surrender. Wuz twelve years ole
at de time an my mistress spoke fuh me when ah j'ined de church. In them days when chillun
j'ined de church some grown person had ter speak fuh em an tell if they thought they wuz converted
or not. Now when chillun j'in de church if they is big enough ter talk they take em in widout
grown fokes speaking fuh em a tall.

Slavery times wuz sho good times. We wuz fed an clothed an had nothin to worry about. Now poar
ole niggers go hungry. Sho we wuz whipped in slavery times. Mah ole man has stripes on his
back now wha he wuz whipped an ah wuz whipped too but hit hoped me up till now. Coase hit did.
Hit keeps me fum goin aroun here tellin lies an stealin yo chickens.

Me an mah ole man is been married sixty-six years an have nevah had no chillun. Yo know little
chillun is de sweetest thing in the worl'. Now if we had chillun we would have someone tuh
take care of us in our ole days. Mah ole man, Tom, is 89 an I'se 82. Poar ole man. Ah does
all ah kin fuh him but I'se ole too. These young niggers is gettin so uppity. They think they
is better than we is. A Darkey jes don' love one another an stick t'gether like white fokes
does. But ah is goin ter stick ter my ole man. He needs me. He is jes like a little helpless
chile widout me ter look after him. Ah used to be mighty frisky an mighty proud when ah wuz
young but ah wazn' as good then as ah is now. Ah likes ter go ter church. See that little white
church over de hill? That is Douglas Chapel, a Baptist church. Me an mah ole man give de lan'
fuh that church. We had plenty them days when Douglas was laid out (meaning Douglas Addition).
But now poar ole niggers don' have enough ter eat all de time. None of them church members
is missionary enough ter bring us somethin' ter eat. White fokes have good hearts but niggers
is grudgeful. De bigges thing among white fokes is they do lie sometime an when they do they
kin best a nigger all to pieces.

Niggers don' have as much 'ligion as they use ter. Ah went to a missionary meeting at one sister's
house an she said ter me: "Sister Douglas, start us off wid a song" an ah started off with
"Amazing Grace." Sang bout half of de first verse an noticed none of them j'ined in but ah
kep' right on singin' an wuz gettin full of de sperit when that sister spoke up an said: "Sister
Douglas, don' yo know that is done gone out of style?" an selected "Fly Away" an den all of
them sisters j'ined in an sung "Fly away, fly away" an hit sounded jes like a dance chune.

Yas'm, that is our ole buggy standin aroun de corner of de house. We use ter ride in hit till
hit got so rickety. An that ole horse is our fambly horse. Dolly Jane ah calls her. We've had
her forty years an she gits sick sometime jes like ah does an ah thinks sho she is gone this
time but she gits ovah hit jes like ah does when ah has a spell. We has lived in this house
since 1900 but we is goin ovah on de utha side of de tracks soon wid the res of de niggers.
Nobody lef on this side but white fokes now ceptin us. When de railroad come through down there
ah had a cotton patch growin there an ah cried cause hit went through mah cotton patch an ruint
part of hit. All we got out'n hit wuz damages.

No'm, mah ole man caint talk ter yo all terday; he is sick. Mebby ifn yo all come back he kin
talk ter yo then.

(In the meantime we investigated Tom and Sarah Douglas and found that he has a bank account
and at one time owned all the land that is now Douglas Addition. In a few days we went back
and found Tom sitting on the porch.)

Uncle Tom Douglas--Yas'm, ah members de wah. Ah wuz fo'teen when de wah began an eighteen when
hit closed. Mah marster wuz B.B. Thomas, Union Parish, Louisiana, near Marion, Louisiana. Ah
saw de fust soldiers go an saw young marster go. When young marster come back at de close of
de wah he brought back a big piece of mule meat ter show us niggers what he done have ter eat
while he wuz in de army.

Ah nevah wuz sold but lots of marster's slaves wuz sold. They wuz sold jes like stock. Ah members
one fambly. De man wuz a blacksmith, de woman a cook, an one of their chillun wuz waitin boy.
They wuz put on de block an sold an a diffunt man bought each one an they went ter diffunt
part of de country ter live on nevah did see one nother no moah. They wuz sole jes like cows
an horses. No'm, ah didn't like slavery days. Ah'd rather be free an hungry.

(Tom is the only ex-slave who has told us that he had rather be free and we believe that is
because he has a bank account and is independent.)

Yo say tell yo about hants. There is such a thing. Yes mam. Some fokes calls it fogyness but
hit sho is true fuh me an Sarah has seed em haint we Sarah. Here young missy, what is yo doin
wid that pencil?

(After we had put up our notebooks and pencils and assured them that we would not repeat it,
they told us the following):

When me an Sarah lived out at de Moore place about three miles east on the main street road
we seed plenty of haints. De graveyard wuz in sight of our house an we could see them sperits
come up out de groun an they would go past de house down in a grove an we could see them there
campin. We could see they campfires. We could hear their dishes rattling an their tincups an
knives an forks. An hear em talkin. Den again they would be diggin with shovels. Sometimes
in de graveyard we could see de sperits doin de things they did befo they died. Some would
be plowing, some blacksmithing an each one doin what he had done while he wuz livin. When day
wuz breakin they would go runnin crost our yard an git back in de graves. Yes'm, we seed em
as long as we lived there. After we moved from ther somebody dug up some gold that wuz buried
at de corner of de chimney. An hit is said that from that day hants have not been seen there.

Yes'm, there is no doubt erbout hit. They is such thin's as hants. Me an Sarah has both seed
em but we aint seed any in a long time.

Interviewer: Mrs. Carol Graham Person interviewed: Tom & Sarah Douglas Resident: El Dorado,
Arkansas Age: 90 and 83.

NOTE:

This is a second interview with Uncle Tom and Aunt Sarah Douglas. The first was sent to your
office in September 1936 from interview by Mrs. Mildred Thompson, El Dorado, Arkansas. Mrs.
Thompson is not now with the Project. Mrs. Carol Graham made the second interview.

Tom Douglas--Ex-slave. I was a slave boy till I was eighteen. Was born in 1847, 'mancipated
in '65. No, my master did not give me forty acres of land and a mule. When we was 'mancipated
my master came took us outside the gate across the road and told us we was freed. "You are
free to work for anybody you want to." We set there a while then we went whare ol' master was
and he tol' us if we wanted to stay wid him and finish the crop he would provide our victuals
and clothes. The next year we worked for him on the halves, and continued to do so for four
or five years. 'F we didn' eat an' wear it up he would give us the balance in money an we of'en
had as much as fifty dollars when the year was over.

My ol' master was S.B. [TR: in two previous interviews, B.B. Thomas] Thomas. The young master
was Emmett Thomas. Mr. Emmett was his son. Dey was near Marion, Louisiana, then I worked fuh
his brother-in-law 'Lias George. His wife was Susan George. I tell you the fact, these times
is much bettuh than slave times. If I'm hungry an' naked, I'm free. I'm crazy 'bout liberty.

I've heard of the Ku Klux Klan but never did see none of 'em. Have seen where they is been
but nevuh did see 'em.

We voted several years. Was considered citizens--voted an' all that sort of thing. I think
if we pay taxes we ought to vote for payin' taxes makes us citizens don' it? I used to be a
big politics man--lost all I had house, forty acres, a good well an' stock an' ever'thing.
I was tol' one day that the Ku Kluxes was comin' to my house that night an' I got on my horse
at sundown an left an aint nevuh been back. I was a big politics man then--lost all I had and
quit politics. I'm ninety years old and fifteenth of next September. Looks like the old might
get pensions if old has anything to do with it I ought to get a pension but us ol' folks that
is gettin' long an has a place to stay an' somethin' to eat they say don' get none.

I come to El Dorado January 3, 1893. This place was in the woods then. I bought 120 acres from
Mr. Dave Armstrong at five dollars per acre and in nine years I had it all paid for. It was
after I got tired of workin' on the halves that I bought me a place.

Worked at a sawmill four years beginnin in 1897 or 98. Than I jobbed aroun' town three years
doin' this an' that an' the other. Carried $25 with me when I moved to town and brought $28
back with me. Cleared $1 a year an' got tired of that.

Am livin' off my land. Have sol' some an' am sellin some now but times is hard and folks can't
pay. I takes in from $18 to $25 per month.

The young folks is gone to destruction. Aint nothin' but destruction. You is young your self
but you can tell times aint the same as they was ten years back. Young folks is goin' to destruction.
Me, I'm goin' home. Goin' back 80 years an comin' up to day I is seen a mighty big change.
Me, I'm goin' home. Don't know what you young folks going to see eighty years from now. Everybody
is trying to get something for nothing.

We use to sing "Gimme this Old Time Religion, It's Good enough for me". An' we sung "I'm a
Soldier of the Cross" an lots of others. We don' live right now, don' serve God. Pride, formality
an love of money keeps folks from worshipping an' away from the ol' time religion. You know
that ol' sayin: "Preacher in the pulpit preachin' mighty bold; All for your money an' none
for your soul." Seems like its true now days.

You ask does I have stripes on my back from bein beat in slave'y times? No maam. I was always
a good boy and smart boy raised in the same yard with the little white chillun. You says Sarah
told you that las' year? Missy you mus' be mistaken. I was whipped once or twice but I needed
it then or ol' master wouldn't a whipped me an he never did leave no stripes on me. My old
master was good to all his niggers and I'm tellin you I was raised up with his chullun an him
and old mistress was good to me. All we little black chillun et out of the boilin' pot an every
Sunday mornin' we had hot biscuit and butter for breakfact. No maam my old master was always
good to his niggers.

(Above is as exactly told by Tom Douglas with the exception that he used the word Marster,
for master; wuz for was, tuh for to; ah for I and other quaint expressions--these were omitted
because of instruction in Bulletin received August 7th, 1937.)

Taken down word for word. August 11, 1937.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Sebert Douglas
                    610 Catalpa Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 82

"I was born in Lebanon, Kentucky. Gover Hood was my old master. His wife's name was Ann Hood.

"I 'member Morgan's Raid. I don't 'member what year it was but I 'member a right smart about
it. Cumberland Gap was where they met.

"The Rebs and Yankees both come and took things from old master. I 'member three horses they
taken well. Yankees had tents in the yard. They was right in the yard right in front of the
Methodist church.

"My mother was Mrs. Hood's slave, and when she married she took my mother along and I was born
on her place.

"I was the carriage boy in slave times. My father did the driving and I was the waitin' boy.
I opened the gates.

"I 'member Billy Chandler and Lewis Rodman run off and j'ined the Yankees but they come back
after the War was over.

"Paddyrollers was about the same as the Ku Klux. The Ku Klux would take the roof off the colored
folks' houses and take their bedding and make 'em go back where they come from.

"We stayed right there with old master for two or three years, then we went to the country
and farmed for ourselves.

"I went to school just long enough to read and write. I never seed no use for figgers till
I married and went to farmin'.

"Since I been in Pine Bluff I done mill work. I was a sash and door man.

"I used to vote every election till Hoover, but I never held any office.

"The younger generation is bad medicine. Can't tell what's gwine come of 'em!"

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Henry Doyl, Brinkley, Arkansas Age: Will
be 74 Feb. 2, 1938

"I was born in Hardeman County near Bolivar, Tennessee. My mother's moster was Bryant Cox and
his wife was Miss Neely Cox. My mother was Dilly Cox. Two things I remembers tinctly that took
place in my childhood: that was when my mother married George Doyl. I was raised by a stepfather.
Miss Neely told my mother she was going to sell me and put me in her pocket. She told her that
more'n one time. I recollect that.

"My oldest brother, one older en me, burned to death. My mother was a field hand. She was at
work in the field. When she come to the house, the cabin burned up and the baby burned up too.
That grieved her mighty bad and when Miss Neely tell her soon as I got big nough she was goner
sell me mighty near break her heart.

"The first year after the surrender my father, Buck Rogers, left my mother in her bad condition.
She said she followed him crying and begging him not to leave her to Montgomery Bridge, in
Alabama. The last she seen him he was on Montgomery Bridge.

"They just expected freedom. My mother left her mistress and moved to the Doyl place. She didn't
get nothing but her few clothes. I was born at the Doyl place. She worked for Moster Bob Doyl,
a young man. They share cropped. We had a plenty I reckon of what we raised and a little money.

"I worked on Colonel Nuckles place when I got up grown. I worked on the Lunatic Asylum at Bolivar
and loaded tires and ditched for the I.C. Railroad a long time.

"I don't recollect that the Ku Klux ever bothered us.

"My stepfather voted Republican ticket. I haven't voted for a good many years--not since Garfield
or McKinley was our President.

"I come to Arkansas in 1887. I married in Arkansas. I heard that Arkansas was a rich country.
My mother was dead. My stepfather had been out here. I come on the train, paid my own way.
Come to Palestine the first night then on to Brinkley. I been close to Brinkley ever since.

"The old man died what learned me how to walk rice levies. I still work on the place. Everybody
don't know how to walk levies. It will kill an old man. Your feet stay wet and cold all time.
I do wear hip boots but my feet stay cold and damp. I got down with the rheumatism and jes'
now got so I can walk.

"I got a wife and three living children. They all married and gone.

"Times is hard for old folks and changed so much. Children used to get jobs and take care of
the granny folks and the old parents. They can't take care of themselves no more it look like.
I don't know how to take the young generation. They are drifting along with the fast times.

"I applied but don't get no pension."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Willie Doyld (male), Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 78 [-- -- 1938]

"I was born in Grenada, Mississippi. My parents belong to the same family of white folks. My
moster was Jim Doyld. His wife was Mistress Karoline Doyld. Well as I recollect they had four
childen. My parent's name was Hannah and William Doyld. I'm named for em. They was three of
us childen. They belong to same family of white folks for a fact. I heard em say Moster Jim
bought em offen the block at the same time. He got em at Galveston, Texas. He kept five families
of slaves on his place well as I recollect.

"My pa was Moster Jim's ox driver. He drove five or six yokes at a time. He walk long side
of em, wagons loaded up. He toted a long cowhide whoop. He toted it over his shoulder. When
he'd crack it you could hear his whoop half a mile. Knowed he was comin' on up to the house.
Them oxen would step long, peartin up when he crack his whoop over em. He'd be haulin' logs,
wood, cotton, corn, taters, sorghum cane and stuff. He nearly always walked long side of em;
sometimes he'd crawl upon the front wagon an' ride a piece.

"He was a very good moster I recken far as I knows. They go up there, get sompin' to eat. He
give em a midlin' meat. He give us clothes. Folks wore heep of clothes then. They got whoopin's
if they not do lack they tole em to do--plenty whoopin's! He kept ten dogs, they call bear
dogs. They hunt fox, wolves, deer, bear, birds. Them dogs died wid black tongue. Every one
of em died.

"We et at home mostly. We was lounced wid the rations but had a big plenty. We got the rations
every Saturday mornin'. One fellow cut and weighed out the meat, sacked out the meal in pans
what they take to git it in. Sometimes we et up at the house. Mama bring a big bucket milk
and set it down, give us a tin cup. We eat it up lack pigs lappin' up slop. Mama cooked for
old mistress. She bring us 'nough cooked up grub to last us two or three days at er time. Papa
could cook when he be round the house too. I recollect all four my grandmas and grandpas. They
come from Georgia. Moster Jim muster bought them too but I don't know if he got em all at the
same time down at Galveston, Texas.

"Moster Jim show did drink liquor--whiskey. I recken he would. When he got drunk old missus
have him on the bed an' she set by him till he sober up. Miss Karoline good as ever drawed
a breath to colored and white.

"My grandma, mother's ma, was a light sorter woman. The balance of my kin was pure nigger.

"I kin for a fact recollect a right smart about the war. Papa went off to war wid Jack Hoskins.
He was goin' to be his waitin' man. He stayed a good while fore he got home. Jack Hoskins got
kilt fore he et breakfast one mornin'. That all I heard him say. I recken he helped bury him
but I never heard em say.

"The plainest thing I recollect was a big drove of the Yankee soldiers--some ridin', some walkin'--come
up to the moster's house. He was sorter old man. He was settin' in the gallery. He lived in
a big log house. He was readin' the paper. He throwed back his head and was dead. Jes' scared
to death. They said that was what the matter. In spite of that they come down there and ordered
us up to the house. All the niggers scared to death not to go. There lay old Moster Jim stretched
dead in his chair. They was backed up to the smoke house door and the horses makin' splinters
of the door. It was three planks thick, crossed one another and bradded together wid iron nails.
They throwed the stuff out an' say, 'Come an' git it. Take it to your houses.' They took it.
It was ours and we didn't want it wasted. Soon as they gone they got mighty busy bringing it
back. They built nother door an' put it up. Old Miss Karoline bout somewheres, scared purty
near to death. They buried Moster Jim at Water Valley, Mississippi. Miss Karoline broke up
and went back to Virginia. My grandma got her feather bed and died on it. Bout two years after
that the Yankees sot fire to the house and burned it down. We all had good log houses down
close together. They didn't bother us.

"I don't recollect the Ku Klux.

"Our folks never knowed when freedom come on. Some didn't believe they was free at all. They
went on farmin' wid what left. What they made they got it. My folks purty nigh all died right
there.

"I lives alone. I got two childern in Lulu, Mississippi. I had three childern. My wife come
here wid me. She dead.

"I had forty acres land, two mules, wagon. It went for debts. White folks got it. I ain't made
nuthin' since.

"I ain't no hand at votin' much. I railly never understood nuthin' bout the run of politics.

"I hates to say it but the young generation won't work if they can get by widout it. They take
it, if they can, outen the old folks. I used to didn't ask folks no diffrunce. I worked right long.

"I gets commodities wid this old woman. I come here to build her fires and see after er. I
don't git no check."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Wade Dudley, Moro, Ark. Age: 73

"Bill Kidd and Miss Nancy Kidd owned my parents. I was born close to Okalona, Chickasha County,
Mississippi, about the last year of the Civil War. Mr. Bill was Miss Nancy's boy. He was a
nigger trader. They said the overseers treated em pretty rough. They made em work in nearly
a run. When Miss Nancy was living they was rich but after she died he got down pretty low.
He married. Course I knowd em. I been through his house. He had a fine house. My mother said
she was born in Virginia. She belong to Addison and Duley. Her mother come wid her. They sold
them but didn't sell her father so she never seed him no more. She walked or come in a ox wagon
part of the way. She was with a drove. My father come from North Carolina. His father was free.
My father weighed out rations. He was bright color. He worked round the house and then durin'
the war he run a refugee wagon. The Yankees got men, mules, meat from Mr. Bill Kidd. My father
he was hiding em and hiding the provisions from one place to another to keep the Yankees from
starving em all to death. My mother had nine boys. They all belong to Mr. Miller. He died,
his widow married Mr. Owen then Mr. Owen sold them to Mrs. Kidd. That was where they was freed.
My parents stayed about Mrs. Kidd's till she died. They worked for a third some of the time,
I don't know how long. When I was a boy size of that yonder biggest boy my folks was still
thinking the government was going to give em something. I was ten years old when they left
Mrs. Kidd's. They thought the government was going to give em 40 acres and a mule or some kind
of a start. I don't know where they got the notion. My father voted down in Mississippi. I
vote. I was working in the car shops in St. Louis in 1923. Me and my wife both voted then.
I worked there two years. I come back to Arkansas where I could farm. The land was better here
than in Mississippi. I walked part of the way and rode part of the way when I come here from
Mississippi. I vote a Republican ticket. Bout all I owns is two little pigs and a few chickens.
I did have a spring garden. We work in the field and make a little to eat and wear.

"I find the present times is hard for old folks. Some young folks is doing well I guess. They
look like it. I made application twice for help but I ain't never got on. I don't know what
to think bout the young folks. If they can get a living they have a good time. They don't worry
bout the future. A little money don't buy nothin' much now. It seem like everything is to buy.
Money is hard to get."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Isabella Duke
                    Little Rock, Arkansas (towards Benton)
                    Visiting in Hazen
Age: 62

[HW: Father Wore a Bonnet]

"My own dear mother was born at Faithville, Alabama. She belong to Sam Norse. His wife was
Mistress Mai Jane. They moved to Little Rock years after my mother had come there. After seberal
months they got trace of one another. I seed two of the Norse girls and a boy. Master Norse
was a farmer in Alabama. Mother said he had plenty hands in slavery. She was a field hand.
She had a tough time during slavery.

"Pa said he had a good time. 'Bout all he ever done was put on old mistress' shoes and pull
her chair about for her to sit in. He built and chunked up the fires. Old mistress raised him
and he had to wear a bonnet. He was real light. He said the worse whoopings he ever got was
when he would be out riding stick horses with his bonnet on. The hands on the place would catch
him and whoop him and say, 'Old mis' thinks he's white sure as de worl'.' The hands on the
place sent him to the big house squalling many a time.

"After he got grown he could be took for a white man easy. He was part French. He talked Frenchy
and acted Frenchy. Every one who knowd him in Little Rock called him Pa Frazier and called
my mother Ma Frazier, but she was dark. Pa said he et out his mistress' plate more times than
he didn't. She raised him about like her own boy.

"Mother had a hard time. Alex Norse bought my mother and a small brother from some people leaving
her own dear mother when she was fifteen years old. Her mother kept the baby and the little
boy took sick and died. But there had been an older boy sold to some folks near Norse's place
before she was sold. The brother that was two years old died. There were other older children
sold. My mother never saw her mother after she was sold. She heard from her mother in 1910.
She was then one hundred and one years old and could thread her needles to piece quilts. Her
baby boy six months old when mother was sold come to visit us. Mother wanted to go back to
see her but never was able to get the money ready. Mother had good sight when she died in 1920.
She was eighty-seven years old and didn't have to wear glasses to see. Mother's father was
on another place. He was said to be part or all Indian.

"Mother said once a cloth peddler come through the country. Her older brother John lived on
a place close to the Norse place. John told the peddler that ma took the piece of goods he
missed. But John was the one got the goods mind out. The peddler reported it to Master Norse.
He give my mother a terrible beating. After that it come out on John. He had stole the piece
of cloth. John then took sick, lay sick a long time. Master Norse wouldn't let her go nigh
John. She knowd when he died and the day he was to be buried. Master Norse wouldn't let her
go nigh there, not even look like she wanted to cry.

"Mother married before freedom, jumped the broom she said. Then after freedom she married my
father. My parents named Clara and George Frazier. She had twelve children. Pa was a cripple
man. He was a soldier. He said he never was shot and never shot no one. He was on a horse and
going this way (reeling from side to side dodging the shooting) all time. A horse throwed him
and hurt his hip in the army. After that he limped. He drew a pension. I limps but I'm better
as I got grown. I'm marked after him. One of my children I named after him what died was cripple
like him. My little George died when he was ten. He was marked at birth after his grandpa.
I had ten, jus' got five living children.

"My husband's father's father was in the Civil War. He didn't want to go out on battle-field,
so in the camps he cut his eyeball with his fingernail so he could get to go to the horsepital.
His eye went out. He hurt it too near the sight. He said he was sorry the rest of his life
he done that. He got a pension too. He was blind and always was sorry for his disobedience.
He said he was scared so bad he 'bout leave die then as go into the battlefield.

"In some ways times is better. People are no better. Children jus' growing up wild. Their education
is of the head and not their heart and hands.

"I was raised around Little Rock is about right. I gets a pension. I'm sixty-two years old
but I was down sick with nerve trouble several years. I'm better now. I've been gradually coming
on up for over a year now.

"Mr. Ernest Harper of Little Rock takes out truckloads of black folks to work on his place
in the country every day. They can get work that way if they can work."

Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: "Wash" Dukes
                    2217 E. Barraque
                    Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 83

"Yes'm, Wash Dukes is my name. My mother liked Washington so well, she named me General Washington
Dukes, but I said my name was Wash Dukes. I'm the oldest one and I'm still here. Me? I was
born in the state of Georgia, Howson County. Perry, Georgia was my closest place. I was born
and raised on the Riggins place. I was born in 1855, you understand. The first day of March
is my birthday. We had it on the Bible, four boys and four girls, and I was the oldest. House
caught fire and burned up the Bible, but I always say I'm as old as a hoss.

"I can't see as good as I used to--gettin' too old, I reckon.

"Old master and mistis was good to us.

"My mother plowed just like a man. Had a little black mule named Mollie and wore these big
old leggins come up to her knee.

"Old master was a long tall man with black hair.

"You know I was here cause I remember when Lincoln was elected president. He run against George
Washington.

"I seen the Yankees but I never talked to em. I was scared of em. Had them muskets with a spear
on the end. They give my uncle a hoss. When it thundered and lightninged that old hoss started
to dance--thought twas a battle. And when he come to a fence, just jump right over with me
on him. I say, 'Where you get that hoss?' and uncle say, 'Yankees give him to me.'

"I know one time they was a fellow come by there walkin'. I guess they shot his hoss. He had
plenty money. I tried to get him to give me some but he wouldn't give me a bit.

"At Oglethorpe they had a place where they kep the prisoners. They was a little stream run
through it and the Rebels pizened it and killed a lot of em.

"I was so crazy when I was young. I know one time mama sent me to town to get a dress pattern--ten
yards. She say, 'Now, Wash, when you go across that bottom, you'll hear somethin' sounds like
somebody dyin', but you just go on, it won't hurt you.' But I say, 'I won't hear it.' I went
through there so fast and come back, mama say, 'You done been to town already?' I said, 'Yes,
here's your dress pattern.' I went through there ninety to nothin'. I went so fast my heart
hurt me.

"In slave times I remember if you wanted to go to another plantation you had to have a pass.
Paddyrollers nearly got me one night. I was on a hoss. They was shootin' at me. I know the
hoss was just stretched out and I was layin' right down on his neck.

