I (disillusioned). I can't think.

She. She wanted to be readen to.

I (resignedly). And what did I do?

She. You said, "I'll read about Tom and the otter."

I (hopefully). I don't know where it is.

She. I think it's in the dining-room, and the Fairy Bluebell couldn't get it herself because
she was only a little girl really.

As I say, there are a lot of people, and many of them, doubtless, readers of this paper, who
understand all about fairies. I want to ask them, as one poor old hard-worked man to another,
whether this is the proper way for a fairy to behave. There seems to be a lack of delicacy--and
shall I say shyness?--about it.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=Our Tactful Orators.=

    "At the close they asked President ----, who was in the chair, to
    present a very handsome umbrella to Mr. ----.

    In a few well-chosen words the Chairman said he trusted that
    Mr. ----, while journeying through life, would be successful in
    warding off many a shower with his umbrella, but they all hoped
    they would be showers of goodwill."--Trade Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "This is great fun and mystifies your friends. Buy a few and you
    will be the cleverest fellow in your district.

    Our leaders are 'Stink Bomb' (make bad smell when broken). Re. 1 a
    box.

    'Sneeze Powder' (makes everybody sneeze when blown in the air) Re.
    1 a bottle."

Advt. in Indian Paper.

Who says the East has no sense of humour?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE WHITE SPAT.=

When it is remembered how large a part has been played in history by revolutionary and political
songs it is both lamentable and strange that at the present time only one of the numerous political
faiths has a hymn of its own--"The Red Flag." The author of the words owes a good deal, I should
say, to the author of "Rule Britannia," though I am inclined to think he has gone one better.
The tune is that gentle old tune which we used to know as "Maryland," and by itself it rather
suggests a number of tired sheep waiting to go through a gate than a lot of people thinking
very redly. I fancy the author realised this, and he has got over it by putting in some good
powerful words like "scarlet," "traitors," "flinch" and "dungeon," whenever the tune is particularly
sheepish. The effect is effective.

Well, I have set myself to supply some of the other parties with songs, and I have begun with
"The White Spat," which is to be the party-hymn of the High Tories (if any). I have written
it to the same tune as "The Red Flag," because, when the lion finally does lie down with the
lamb, it will be much more convenient if they can bleat and roar in the same metre, and I shall
hope to hear Mr. ROBERT WILLIAMS and Lord ROBERT CECIL singing these two songs at once one
day. I am not wholly satisfied with "The White Spat," but I think I have caught the true spirit,
or, at any rate, the proper inconsequence of these things:--

THE WHITE SPAT

Air--Maryland.

  The spats we wear are pure as snow--
  We are so careful where we go;
  We don't go near the vulgar bus
  Because it always splashes us.

  Chorus.
  We take the road with trustful hearts,
  Avoiding all the messy parts;
  However dirty you may get
  We'll keep the White Spat spotless yet.

  At night there shines a special star
  To show us where the puddles are;
  The crossing-sweeper sweeps the floor--
  That's what the crossing-sweeper's for.

  Chorus.
  Then take the road, etc., etc.

I know it doesn't look much, just written down on paper; but you try singing it and you'll
find you're carried away.

Of course there ought to be an international verse, but I'm afraid I can't compete with the
one in my model:--

  "Look round: the Frenchman loves its blaze,
  The sturdy German chants its praise;
  In Moscow's vaults its hymns are sung;
  Chicago swells the surging throng."

This is the best I can do:--

  From Russia's snows to Afric's sun
  The race of spatriots is one;
  One faith unites their alien blood--
  "There's nothing to be said for mud."

Now we have the song of the Wee Frees. I wanted this to be rather pathetic, but I'm not sure
that I haven't overdone it. The symbolism, though, is well-nigh perfect, and, after all, the
symbolism is the chief thing. This goes to the tune of "Annie Laurie":--

THE OLD BLACK BROLLY.

Air--Annie Laurie.

  Under the Old Umbrella,
    Beneath the leaking gamp,
  Wrapped up in woolly phrases
    We battle with the damp.
    Come, gather round the gamp!
  Observe, it is pre-war;
    And beneath the old Black Brolly
  There's room for several more.

  Shameless calumniators
    Calumniate like mad;
  Detractors keep detracting;
    It really is too bad;
    It really is too bad.
  To show we're not quite dead,
    We wave the old Black Brolly
  And hit them on the head.

Then we have the National Party. I am rather vague about the National Party, but I know they
are frightfully military, and they keep on having Mass Rallies in Kensington--complete with
drums, I expect. Where all the masses come from I don't quite know, as a prolonged search has
failed to reveal anyone who knows anyone who is actually a member of the party. Everybody tells
me, though, that there is at least one Brigadier-General (Tempy.) mixed up with it, if not
two, and at least one Lord, though possibly one of the Brigadiers is the same as the Lord;
but after all they represent the Nation, so they ought to have a song. They have nothing but
"Rule Britannia" now, I suppose.

Their song goes to the tune of "The British Grenadiers." I have written it as a duet, but no
doubt other parts could be added if the occasion should ever arise.

THE NATIONAL.

Air--The British Grenadiers.

  Some talk of Coalitions,
    Of Tories and all that;
  They are but cheap editions
    Of the one and only Nat.;
  Our Party has no equals,
    Though of course it has its peers,
  With a tow, row, row, row, row, row,
    For the British Brigadiers.

You have no idea how difficult it is to write down the right number of rows first time; however
I daresay the General wouldn't mind a few extra ones.

  We represent the Nation
    As no one else can do;
  Without exaggeration
    Our membership is two.
  We rally in our masses
    And give three hearty cheers,
  With a tow, row, row, row, row, row
    For the National Brigadiers.

There could be a great deal more of that, but perhaps you have had enough.

Of course, if you don't think the poetry of my songs is good enough, I shall just have to quote
some of "The International" words to show you that it's the tune that matters.

Here you are:--

  "Arise! ye starvelings from your slumbers,
    Arise! ye criminals of want,
  For reason in revolt now thunders,
    And at last ends the age of cant."

If people can get excited singing that, my songs would send them crazy.

Then there is the Coalition. I have had a good deal of difficulty about this, but I think that
at last I have hit the right note; all my first efforts were too dignified. This goes to a
darkie tune:--

THE PIEBALD MARE.

Air--Camptown Ladies.

  Down-town darkies all declare,
        Doo-dah, doo-dah,
  There never was a hoss like the piebald mare,
        Doo-dah, doo-dah day!
  One half dark and the other half pale,
        Doo-dah, doo-dah,
  Two fat heads and a great big tail,
        Doo-dah, doo-dah day!

  Chorus.
  Gwine to run all night,
    Gwine to run all day!
  I put my money on the piebald mare
    Because she run both way.

  Little old DAVE he ride dat hoss,
        Doo-dah, doo-dah,
  Where'll she be if he takes a toss?
        Doo-dah, doo-dah day!

The other day, when we were playing charades and had to act L, we did Lloyd George and the
Coalition; and the people who were acting the Coalition sang the above song with really wonderful
effect. It is true that the other side thought we were acting Legion and the Gadarene Swine,
but that must have been because of something faulty in our make-up. The sound of this great
anthem was sufficiently impressive to make one long to hear the real Coalition shouting it
all along Downing Street. It is a solo with chorus, you understand, and the Coalition come
in with a great roar of excitement and fervour on Doo-dah! Doo-dah!

Yes, I like that.

A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

  "MORE THAN MILLION SALE.
  Waste! Waste! Waste!"

  Newspaper Poster.

In mercy we suppress the title of our contemporary.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The man in custody has been identified as the result of the
    efforts of the Birkenhead detective stag."--Liverpool Paper.

A variation on the old-fashioned sleuth-hound.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the report of a speech by Admiral Sir PERCY SCOTT:--

    "He might say that when the Germans were demolarised at the Battle
    of Jutland ..."

    Scottish Paper.

This confirms our impression that, whatever happened at Jutland, we certainly drew the German
Navy's teeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUESTIONS.

How did mankind get to all corners of the earth? and what is the cause of exploding suns? These
are among the questions put by Professor A. W. BICKERTON, of the London Astronomical Society,
and they would be solved, it seems, if our learned men would only band themselves together.
I have no wish to hamper the good work, but a moment's reflection suggests a number of other
questions simply asking to be answered.

For instance, what happens when an irresistible force meets Sir ERIC GEDDES?

And why is it that while we hear of thousands of people losing their umbrellas we have never
yet heard of a single case where a man openly admitted that he had found one?

And is there any reason why the modern novel should not end happily, instead of the hero and
heroine always marrying at the last moment.

And how does it happen that Thanet is the best holiday-place in this country and enjoys more
sunshine than any other resort?

And could not The Daily Mail extend the same sunshine privilege to other parts?

And what makes a music-hall audience laugh when a comedian changes his hat and mutters the
mystic word, "Winston"?

And who is the gentleman referred to?

And why is it that nine-tenths of the coon-singers on the halls are always wanting to get back
to their dear old homes? And who is stopping them in their noble desire? And is there any explanation
why all these singers seem to have their homes in distant Alabam, where the roses keep on climbing
round the door, just close to where the cotton and the corn are growing all the year round,
only later in life to leave the dear old place to take up music-hall work here, and then spend
the remainder of their lives telling us of their passionate determination to get away back
to the old folks?

And would I be right in my surmise that very few homes in Wigan have roses round the door or
stand in fields of growing cotton and corn or reek of new-mown hay?

And why is it that, when you tell a man there are so many million stars in the skies, he will
believe you, but the moment he sees a notice on a gate bearing the words "Wet Paint" he puts
his finger upon it just to find out for himself?

And why did Mrs. ASQUITH----But perhaps that will be enough for the Professor to be going on with.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Commercial Candour.=

