
For the minister, while admitting to its full extent the irresistible claim which the Prince
of Wales possessed to the preference of Parliament for the Regency, proposed at the same time
to impose certain limitations on his exercise of the authority, so long as there was a reasonable
hope of his royal father's recovery. He was not to have the power to create peerages, nor to
alienate the property of the crown, nor to grant offices in reversion; and, as the Queen was
to have the care of his Majesty's person, she also was to have the appointment of all the offices
in the royal household. Fox, on the other hand, objected with extreme earnestness to the impropriety
of imposing any limitations whatever on the power of the Regent; and then the question whether
the Prince was to derive his right to the Regency from the authority of Parliament, or from
his natural position and inalienable preceding right as his father's heir, became one of practical
importance. If the Parliament had the right to confer authority, it had clearly the right to
limit the authority it conferred. If the Prince had an indefeasible right to the Regency, independently
of the will of Parliament, then Parliament could have no pretence to limit or restrain the
exercise of an authority which in no degree flowed from itself. Fox, indeed, took another objection
to the imposing of limitations to the authority to be intrusted to the Regent, contending that
this would be to create a power unknown to the constitution--a person in the situation of King
without regal power. But, not to mention precedents drawn from the reigns of Edward III., Richard
II., and Henry VI., in the twenty-fourth year of the very last reign, George II., on the death
of his son, the father of the present King, had enjoined the Parliament to provide for the
government, in the case of his own death, while the heir was still a minor, recommending to
them the appointment of the Princess Dowager of Wales as Regent, "with such powers and limitations
as might appear expedient." And, in conformity with his desire, the Parliament had appointed
the Princess Regent, with a Council of Regency to assist her; and had enacted that "several
portions of the regal power" should be withheld from the Regent, if she could not obtain the
consent of the Council thus appointed.[118]

This part of the case was so plain, that when, after the different resolutions proposed by
Pitt had been adopted in both Houses, Fox insisted that, instead of proceeding by a bill to
create a Regency, and to appoint the Prince of Wales Regent, the only course which could be
adopted with propriety would be to present an address to the Prince, to entreat him to assume
the government, he failed to induce the House to agree with him; and finally, as if he were
determined to find a battle-field in every clause, he made a vigorous resistance to the expedient
by which Pitt proposed that the formal royal assent which was necessary to make the bill law
should be given. Fox, on one occasion, had gone the length of denying that the two Houses had
any right to be regarded as a Parliament while the King, an essential part of Parliament, was
incapacitated. But such an objection could have had no force, even in the mind of him who raised
it, since the proceedings of the two Convention Parliaments of 1660 and 1689 labored under
a similar defect; and yet their acts had been recognized as valid, and ratified by subsequent
Parliaments. And now, in reference to the expedient proposed by the minister, that the two
Houses should empower and authorize the Lord Chancellor to affix the Great Seal to the bill,
Burke, with great, but for him not unusual, violence, denounced both the proposal and the Chancellor,
declaring that such a step would be the setting up of a phantom of sovereignty, a puppet, an
idol, an idiot, to which he disclaimed all allegiance. A more perilous amendment was one proposed
to another clause by Mr. Rolle, enacting that if the Regent should marry a Roman Catholic his
authority should cease. Since the Bill of Rights, as we have seen, forbade a sovereign to marry
a Roman Catholic without incurring the forfeiture of his crown, it was evidently reasonable
that the same restriction should be imposed on every Regent; but it was hard at the moment
altogether to dissociate such a clause from the discussions of the preceding year; and Mr.
Rolle endeavored to give the clause a more pointed meaning by an amendment to enact that the
forfeiture should be incurred by the mere celebration of any marriage ceremony, whether the
marriage thus performed were legal and valid or not. His amendment, however, was unanimously
rejected. The bill was passed without alteration by the House of Commons; the Prince, while
protesting in an elaborate and most able letter, drawn up for him by Burke, against the restrictions
imposed by the bill, nevertheless consented to sacrifice his own judgment to the general good
of the kingdom, and to accept the authority, limited as it was. And by the middle of February
the bill was sent up to the House of Lords. There Lord Camden had charge of it, and his position
as a former Chancellor gave irresistible weight to his opinion that the mode proposed to give
the final sanction to the bill was strictly in accordance with the spirit and practice of the
constitution. The point with which he dealt was the previous one, how Parliament, which was
to pass the bill, was to be opened, for, "circumstanced as it was, Parliament could not at
present take a single step." The law, as he put it, declared that the King must be present,
either in person or by a representative. When he could not attend personally, the legal and
constitutional process was to issue letters-patent under the Great Seal. In the present dilemma,
therefore, he recommended that the two Houses should direct letters-patent to be issued under
the Great Seal, authorizing commissioners to open Parliament in the name of his Majesty. He
"must use the liberty to say that those who treated this proposal with ridicule were ignorant
of the laws of their country. A fiction it might be termed, but it was a fiction admirably
calculated to preserve the constitution, and, by adopting its forms, to preserve its substance."
The authority of the Great Seal he explained to be such that, "even if the Lord Chancellor,
by caprice, put it to any commission, it could not afterward be questioned;" and he adduced
a precedent of a very similar character to the course now proposed, which occurred "at the
commencement of the reign of Henry VI., when, the sovereign being an infant of nine months
old, the Great Seal was placed in his hand, and it was supposed to be given to him by the Master
of the Rolls, whereupon many commissions were sealed by it, and the government was carried
on under its authority." That precedent, he reminded the peers, had been followed as recently
as the year 1754, when, during an illness of George II., Lord Chancellor Hardwicke affixed
the Great Seal to a commission for opening a session of Parliament. And, finally, he concluded
by moving, "That it is expedient and necessary that letters-patent for opening the Parliament
should pass under the Great Seal."[119] The motion was carried, and Parliament was opened in
accordance with it; and, if it had been necessary, the same expedient would have sufficed to
give the requisite assent to the Regency Bill, a necessity which was escaped by the fortunate
recovery of the royal patient, which was announced by his medical advisers a day or two before
that fixed for the third reading of the bill in the House of Lords.

Though the question was thus left undetermined for the moment, it was revived twenty-two years
afterward, when the same sovereign was attacked by a recurrence of the same disease, and the
existing ministry, then presided over by Mr. Perceval, brought forward a Regency Bill almost
identical with that which on this occasion had been framed by Mr. Pitt; and the Opposition,
led by Lord Grey and Sir Samuel Romilly, raised as nearly as possible the same objections to
it which were now urged by Fox and his adherents. The ministerial measure was, however, again
supported by considerable majorities; so that the course proposed by Mr. Pitt on this occasion
may be said to have received the sanction of two Parliaments assembled and sitting under widely
different circumstances; and may, therefore, be taken as having established the rule which
will be adopted if such an emergency should, unfortunately, arise hereafter. And indeed, though
the propriety of Pitt's proposals has, as was natural, been discussed by every historical and
political writer who has dealt with the history of that time, there has been a general concurrence
of opinion in favor of that statesman's measure. Lord John Russell, while giving a document,
entitled "Materials for a Pamphlet," in which he recognizes the handwriting of Lord Loughborough,
and which "contains the grounds of the opinion advanced by him, and adopted by Mr. Fox, that,
from the moment the two Houses of Parliament declared the King unable to exercise his royal
authority, a right to exercise that authority attached to the Prince of Wales," does not suppress
his own opinion of the "erroneousness of this or any other doctrine that attributes to any
individual or any constituted authority existing in the state a strict or legal right to claim
or to dispose of the royal authority while the King is alive, but incapable of exercising it."[120]

