Then I heard the doctor say: "Give 'er another whiff or two." His voice sounded far-away, as
though he were speaking through the Simplon Tunnel, and not merely through his teeth, within
twelve inches of my nose.

I took my whiff or two. I gulped at that chloroform like a thirsty Bedouin at a wadi-spring.
I went down into the pea-green emptiness again, and forgot about the Kelly pad and the recurring
waves of pain that came bigger and bigger and tried to sweep through my racked old body like
breakers through the ribs of a stranded schooner. I forgot about the hateful metallic clink
of steel things against an instrument-tray, and about the loganberry pimple on the nose of
the red-headed surgical nurse who'd been sent into the labor room to help.

I went wafting off into a feather-pillowy pit of infinitude. I even forgot to preach to myself,
as I'd been doing for the last month or two. I knew that my time was upon me, as the Good Book
says. There are a lot of things in this life, I remembered, which woman is able to squirm out
of. But here, Mistress Tabbie, was one you couldn't escape. Here was a situation that had to
be faced. Here was a time I had to knuckle down, had to grin and bear it, had to go through
with it to the bitter end. For other folks, whatever they may be able to do for you, aren't
able to have your babies for you.

Then I ebbed up out of the pea-green depths again, and was troubled by the sound of voices,
so thin and far-away I couldn't make out what they were saying. Then came the beating of a
tom-tom, so loud that it hurt. When that died away for a minute or two I caught the sound of
the sharp and quavery squall of something, of something which had never squalled before, a
squall of protest and injured pride, of maltreated youth resenting the ignominious way it must
enter the world. Then the tom-tom beating started up again, and I opened my eyes to make sure
it wasn't the Grenadiers' Band going by.

I saw a face bending over mine, seeming to float in space. It was the color of a half-grown
cucumber, and it made me think of a tropical fish in an aquarium when the water needed changing.

"She's coming out, Doctor," I heard a woman's voice say. It was a voice as calm as God's and
slightly nasal. For a moment I thought I'd died and gone to Heaven. But I finally observed
and identified the loganberry pimple, and realized that the tom-tom beating was merely the
pounding of the steam-pipes in that jerry-built western hospital, and remembered that I was
still in the land of the living and that the red-headed surgical nurse was holding my wrist.
I felt infinitely hurt and abused, and wondered why my husband wasn't there to help me with
that comforting brown gaze of his. And I wanted to cry, but didn't seem to have the strength,
and then I wanted to say something, but found myself too weak.

It was the doctor's voice that roused me again. He was standing beside my narrow iron bed with
his sleeves still rolled up, wiping his arms with a big white towel. He was smiling as he scrubbed
at the corners of his nails, as though to make sure they were clean. The nurse on the other
side of the bed was also smiling. So was the carrot-top with the loganberry beauty-spot. All
I could see, in fact, was smiling faces.

But it didn't seem a laughing matter to me. I wanted to rest, to sleep, to get another gulp
or two of that God-given smelly stuff out of the little round tin can.

"How're you feeling?" asked the doctor indifferently. He nodded down at me as he proceeded
to manicure those precious nails of his. They were laughing, the whole four of them. I began
to suspect that I wasn't going to die, after all.

"Everything's fine and dandy," announced the barearmed farrier as he snapped his little pen-knife
shut. But that triumphant grin of his only made me more tired than ever, and I turned away
to the tall young nurse on the other side of my bed.

There was perspiration on her forehead, under the eaves of the pale hair crowned with its pointed
little cap. She was still smiling, but she looked human and tired and a little fussed.

"Is it a girl?" I asked her. I had intended to make that query a crushingly imperious one.
I wanted it to stand as a reproof to them, as a mark of disapproval for all such untimely merriment.
But my voice, I found, was amazingly weak and thin. And I wanted to know.

"It's both," said the tired-eyed girl in the blue and white uniform. And she, too, nodded her
head in a triumphant sort of way, as though the credit for some vast and recent victory lay
entirely in her own narrow lap.

"It's both?" I repeated, wondering why she too should fail to give a simple answer to a simple
question.

"It's twins!" she said, with a little chirrup of laughter.

"Twins?" I gasped, in a sort of bleat that drove the last of the pea-green mist out of that
room with the dead white walls.

"Twins," proclaimed the doctor, "twins!" He repeated the monosyllable, converting it into a
clarion-call that made me think of a rooster crowing.

"A lovely boy and girl," cooed the third nurse with a bottle of olive-oil in her hand. And
by twisting my head a little I was able to see the two wire bassinets, side by side, each holding
a little mound of something wrapped in a flannelette blanket.

I shut my eyes, for I seemed to have a great deal to think over. Twins! A boy and girl! Two
little new lives in the world! Two warm and cuddling little bairns to nest close against my
mother-breast.

"I see your troubles cut out for you," said the doctor as he rolled down his shirt-sleeves.

They were all laughing again. But to me it didn't seem quite such a laughing matter. I was
thinking of my layette, and trying to count over my supply of binders and slips and shirts
and nighties and wondering how I could out-Solomon Solomon and divide the little dotted Swiss
dress edged with the French Val lace of which I'd been so proud. Then I fell to pondering over
other problems, equally prodigious, so that it was quite a long time before my mind had a chance
to meander on to Dinky-Dunk himself.

And when I did think of Dinky-Dunk I had to laugh. It seemed a joke on him, in some way. He
was the father of twins. Instead of one little snoozer to carry on his name and perpetuate
his race in the land, he now had two. Fate, without consulting him, had flung him double measure.
No wonder, for the moment, those midnight toilers in that white-walled house of pain were wearing
the smile that refused to come off! That's the way, I suppose, that all life ought to be welcomed
into this old world of ours. And now, I suddenly remembered, I could speak of my children--and
that means so much more than talking about one's child. Now I was indeed a mother, a prairie
mother with three young chicks of her own to scratch for.

I forgot my anxieties and my months of waiting. I forgot those weeks of long mute protest,
of revolt against wily old Nature, who so cleverly tricks us into the ways she has chosen.
A glow of glory went through my tired body--it was hysteria, I suppose, in the basic meaning
of the word--and I had to shut my eyes tight to keep the tears from showing.

But that great wave of happiness which had washed up the shore of my soul receded as it came.
By the time I was transferred to the rubber-wheeled stretcher they called "the Wagon" and trundled
off to a bed and room of my own, the reaction set in. I could think more clearly. My Dinky-Dunk
didn't love me, or he'd never have left me at such a time, no matter what his business calls
may have been. The Twins weren't quite so humorous as they seemed. There was even something
disturbingly animal-like in the birth of more offspring than one at a time, something almost
revolting in this approach to the littering of one's young. They all tried to unedge that animality
by treating it as a joke, by confronting it with their conspiracies of jocularity. But it would
be no joke to a nursing mother in the middle of a winter prairie with the nearest doctor twenty
long miles away.

I countermanded my telegram to Dinky-Dunk at Vancouver, and cried myself to sleep in a nice
relaxing tempest of self-pity which my "special" accepted as calmly as a tulip-bed accepts
a shower. But lawdy, lawdy, how I slept! And when I woke up and sniffed warm air and that painty
smell peculiar to new buildings, and heard the radiators sing with steam and the windows rattle
in the northeast blizzard that was blowing, I slipped into a truer realization of the intricate
machinery of protection all about me, and thanked my lucky stars that I wasn't in a lonely
prairie shack, as I'd been when my almost three-year-old Dinkie was born. I remembered, with
little tidal waves of contentment, that my ordeal was a thing of the past, and that I was a
mother twice over, and rather hungry, and rather impatient to get a peek at my God-given little
babes.

Then I fell to thinking rather pityingly of my forsaken little Dinkie and wondering if Mrs.
Teetzel would keep his feet dry and cook his cream-of-wheat properly, and if Iroquois Annie
would have brains enough not to overheat the furnace and burn Casa Grande down to the ground.
Then I decided to send the wire to Dinky-Dunk, after all, for it isn't every day in the year
a man can be told he's the father of twins....

I sent the wire, in the secret hope that it would bring my lord and master on the run. But
it was eight days later, when I was up on a back-rest and having my hair braided, that Dinky-Dunk
put in an appearance. And when he did come he chilled me. I can't just say why. He seemed tired
and preoccupied and unnecessarily self-conscious before the nurses when I made him hold Pee-Wee
on one arm and Poppsy on the other.

"Now kiss 'em, Daddy," I commanded. And he had to kiss them both on their red and puckered
little faces. Then he handed them over with all too apparent relief, and fell into a brown study.

"What are you worrying over?" I asked him.

"I'm wondering how in the world you'll ever manage," he solemnly acknowledged. I was able to
laugh, though it took an effort.

"For every little foot God sends a little shoe," I told him, remembering the aphorism of my
old Irish nurse. "And the sooner you get me home, Dinky-Dunk, the happier I'll be. For I'm
tired of this place and the smell of the formalin and ether and I'm nearly worried to death
about Dinkie. And in all the wide world, O Kaikobad, there's no place like one's own home!"

Dinky-Dunk didn't answer me, but I thought he looked a little wan and limp as he sat down in
one of the stiff-backed chairs. I inspected him with a calmer and clearer eye.

"Was that sleeper too hot last night?" I asked, remembering what a bad night could do to a big man.

"I don't seem to sleep on a train the way I used to," he said, but his eye evaded mine. And
I suspected something.

"Dinky-Dunk," I demanded, "did you have a berth last night?"

He flushed up rather guiltily. He even seemed to resent my questioning him. But I insisted
on an answer.

"No, I sat up," he finally confessed.

"Why?" I demanded.

And still again his eye tried to evade mine.

"We're a bit short of ready cash." He tried to say it indifferently, but the effort was a failure.

"Then why didn't you tell me that before?" I asked, sitting up and spurning the back-rest.

"You had worries enough of your own," proclaimed my weary-eyed lord and master. It gave me
a squeezy feeling about the heart to see him looking so much like an unkempt and overworked
and altogether neglected husband. And there I'd been lying in the lap of luxury, with quick-footed
ladies in uniform to answer my bell and fly at my bidding.

"But I've a right, Dunkie, to know your worries, and stand my share of 'em," I promptly told
him. "And that's why I want to get out of this smelly old hole and back to my home again. I
may be the mother of twins, and only too often reminded that I'm one of the Mammalia, but I'm
still your cave-mate and life-partner, and I don't think children ought to come between a man
and wife. I don't intend to allow my children to do anything like that."

I said it quite bravely, but there was a little cloud of doubt drifting across the sky of my
heart. Marriage is so different from what the romance-fiddlers try to make it. Even Dinky-Dunk
doesn't approve of my mammalogical allusions. Yet milk, I find, is one of the most important
issues of motherhood--only it's impolite to mention the fact. What makes me so impatient of
life as I see it reflected in fiction is its trick of overlooking the important things and
over-accentuating the trifles. It primps and tries to be genteel--for Biology doth make cowards
of us all.

I was going to say, very sagely, that life isn't so mysterious after you've been the mother
of three children. But that wouldn't be quite right. It's mysterious in an entirely different
way. Even love itself is different, I concluded, after lying there in bed day after day and
thinking the thing over. For there are so many different ways, I find, of loving a man. You
are fond of him, at first, for what you consider his perfections, the same as you are fond
of a brand-new traveling bag. There isn't a scratch on his polish or a flaw in his make-up.
Then you live with him for a few years. You live with him and find that life is making a few
dents in his loveliness of character, that the edges are worn away, that there's a weakness
or two where you imagined only strength to be, and that instead of standing a saint and hero
all in one, he's merely an unruly and unreliable human being with his ups and downs of patience
and temper and passion. But, bless his battered old soul, you love him none the less for all
that. You no longer fret about him being unco guid, and you comfortably give up trying to match
his imaginary virtues with your own. You still love him, but you love him differently. There's
a touch of pity in your respect for him, a mellowing compassion, a little of the eternal mother
mixed up with the eternal sweetheart. And if you are wise you will no longer demand the impossible
of him. Being a woman, you will still want to be loved. But being a woman of discernment, you
will remember that in some way and by some means, if you want to be loved, you must remain lovable.

                      Thursday the Nineteenth

I had to stay in that smelly old hole of a hospital and in that bald little prairie city fully
a week longer than I wanted to. I tried to rebel against being bullied, even though the hand
of iron was padded with velvet. But the powers that be were too used to handling perverse and
fretful women. They thwarted my purpose and broke my will and kept me in bed until I began
to think I'd take root there.

But once I and my bairns were back here at Casa Grande I could see that they were right. In
the first place the trip was tiring, too tiring to rehearse in detail. Then a vague feeling
of neglect and desolation took possession of me, for I missed the cool-handed efficiency of
that ever-dependable "special." I almost surrendered to funk, in fact, when both Poppsy and
Pee-Wee started up a steady duet of crying. I sat down and began to sniffle myself, but my
sense of humor, thank the Lord, came back and saved the day. There was something so utterly
ridiculous in that briny circle, soon augmented and completed by the addition of Dinkie, who
apparently felt as lonely and overlooked as did his spineless and sniffling mother.

So I had to tighten the girths of my soul. I took a fresh grip on myself and said: "Look here,
Tabbie, this is never going to do. This is not the way Horatius held the bridge. This is not
the spirit that built Rome. So, up, Guards, and at 'em! Excelsior! Audaces fortuna juvat!"

So I mopped my eyes, and readjusted the Twins, and did what I could to placate Dinkie, who
continues to regard his little brother and sister with a somewhat hostile eye. One of my most
depressing discoveries on getting back home, in fact, was to find that Dinkie has grown away
from me in my absence. At first he even resented my approaches, and he still stares at me,
now and then, across a gulf of perplexity. But the ice is melting. He's beginning to understand,
after all, that I'm his really truly mother and that he can come to me with his troubles. He's
lost a good deal of his color, and I'm beginning to suspect that his food hasn't been properly
looked after during the last few weeks. It's a patent fact, at any rate, that my house hasn't
been properly looked after. Iroquois Annie, that sullen-eyed breed servant of ours, will never
have any medals pinned on her pinny for neatness. I'd love to ship her, but heaven only knows
where we'd find any one to take her place. And I simply must have help, during the next few months.

Casa Grande, by the way, looked such a little dot on the wilderness, as we drove back to it,
that a spear of terror pushed its way through my breast as I realized that I had my babies
to bring up away out here on the edge of this half-settled no-man's land. If only our dreams
had come true! If only the plans of mice and men didn't go so aft agley! If only the railway
had come through to link us up with civilization, and the once promised town had sprung up
like a mushroom-bed about our still sad and solitary Casa Grande! But what's the use of repining,
Tabbie McKail? You've the second-best house within thirty miles of Buckhorn, with glass door-knobs
and a laundry-chute, and a brood to rear, and a hard-working husband to cook for. And as the
kiddies get older, I imagine, I'll not be troubled by this terrible feeling of loneliness which
has been weighing like a plumb-bob on my heart for the last few days. I wish Dinky-Dunk didn't
have to be so much away from home....

Old Whinstane Sandy, our hired man, has presented me with a hand-made swing-box for Poppsy
and Pee-Wee, a sort of suspended basket-bed that can be hung up in the porch as soon as my
two little snoozers are able to sleep outdoors. Old Whinnie, by the way, was very funny when
I showed him the Twins. He solemnly acknowledged that they were nae sae bad, conseederin'.
I suppose he thought it would be treason to Dinkie to praise the newcomers who threatened to
put little Dinkie's nose out of joint. And Whinnie, I imagine, will always be loyal to Dinkie.
He says little about it, but I know he loves that child. He loves him in very much the same
way that Bobs, our collie dog, loves me. It was really Bobs' welcome, I think, across the cold
prairie air, that took the tragedy out of my homecoming. There were gladness and trust in those
deep-throated howls of greetings. He even licked the snow off my overshoes and nested his head
between my knees, with his bob-tail thumping the floor like a flicker's beak. He sniffed at
the Twins rather disgustedly. But he'll learn to love them, I feel sure, as time goes on. He's
too intelligent a dog to do otherwise....

I'll be glad when spring comes, and takes the razor-edge out of this northern air. We'll have
half a month of mud first, I suppose. But "there's never anything without something," as Mrs.
Teetzel very sagely announced the other day. That sour-apple philosopher, by the way, is taking
her departure to-morrow. And I'm not half so sorry as I pretend to be. She's made me feel like
an intruder in my own home. And she's a soured and venomous old ignoramus, for she sneered
openly at my bath-thermometer and defies Poppsy and Pee-Wee to survive the winter without a
"comfort." After I'd announced my intention of putting them outdoors to sleep, when they were
four weeks old, she lugubriously acknowledged that there were more ways than one of murderin'
infant children. Her ideal along this line, I've discovered, is slow asphyxiation in a sort
of Dutch-oven made of an eider-down comforter, with as much air as possible shut off from their
uncomfortable little bodies. But the Oracle is going, and I intend to bring up my babies in
my own way. For I know a little more about the game now than I did when little Dinkie made
his appearance in this vale of tears. And whatever my babies may or may not be, they are at
least healthy little tikes.

                      Sunday the Twenty-second

I seem to be fitting into things again, here at Casa Grande. I've got my strength back, and
an appetite like a Cree pony, and the day's work is no longer a terror to me. I'm back in the
same old rut, I was going to say--but it is not the same. There is a spirit of unsettledness
about it all which I find impossible to define, an air of something impending, of something
that should be shunned as long as possible. Perhaps it's merely a flare-back from my own shaken
nerves. Or perhaps it's because I haven't been able to get out in the open air as much as I
used to. I am missing my riding. And Paddy, my pinto, will give us a morning of it, when we
try to get a saddle on his scarred little back, for it's half a year now since he has had a
bit between his teeth.

It's Dinky-Dunk that I'm really worrying over, though I don't know why. I heard him come in
very quietly last night as I was tucking little Dinkie up in his crib. I went to the nursery
door, half hoping to hear my lord and master sing out his old-time "Hello, Lady-Bird!" or "Are
you there, Babushka?" But instead of that he climbed the stairs, rather heavily, and passed
on down the hall to the little room he calls his study, his sanctum-sanctorum where he keeps
his desk and papers and books--and the duck-guns, so that Dinkie can't get at them. I could
hear him open the desk-top and sit down in the squeaky Bank of England chair.

When I was sure that Dinkie was off, for good, I tiptoed out and shut the nursery door. Even
big houses, I began to realize as I stood there in the hall, could have their drawbacks. In
the two-by-four shack where we'd lived and worked and been happy before Casa Grande was built
there was no chance for one's husband to shut himself up in his private boudoir and barricade
himself away from his better-half. So I decided, all of a sudden, to beard the lion in his
den. There was such a thing as too much formality in a family circle. Yet I felt a bit audacious
as I quietly pushed open that study door. I even weakened in my decision about pouncing on
Dinky-Dunk from behind, like a leopardess on a helpless stag. Something in his pose, in fact,
brought me up short.

Dinky-Dunk was sitting with his head on his hand, staring at the wall-paper. And it wasn't
especially interesting wall-paper. He was sitting there in a trance, with a peculiar line of
dejection about his forward-fallen shoulders. I couldn't see his face, but I felt sure it was
not a happy face.

I even came to a stop, without speaking a word, and shrank rather guiltily back through the
doorway. It was a relief, in fact, to find that I was able to close the door without making
a sound.

When Dinky-Dunk came down-stairs, half an hour later, he seemed his same old self. He talked
and laughed and inquired if Nip and Tuck--those are the names he sometimes takes from his team
and pins on Poppsy and Pee-Wee--had given me a hard day of it and explained that Francois--our
man on the Harris Ranch--had sent down a robe of plaited rabbit-skin for them.

I did my best, all the time, to keep my inquisitorial eye from fastening itself on Dunkie's
face, for I knew that he was playing up to me, that he was acting a part which wasn't coming
any too easy. But he stuck to his rôle. When I put down my sewing, because my eyes were tired,
he even inquired if I hadn't done about enough for one day.

"I've done about half what I ought to do," I told him. "The trouble is, Dinky-Dunk, I'm getting
old. I'm losing my bounce!"

That made him laugh a little, though it was rather a wistful laugh.

"Oh, no, Gee-Gee," he announced, momentarily like his old self, "whatever you lose, you'll
never lose that undying girlishness of yours!"

It was not so much what he said, as the mere fact that he could say it, which sent a wave of
happiness through my maternal old body. So I made for him with my Australian crawl-stroke,
and kissed him on both sides of his stubbly old face, and rumpled him up, and went to bed with
a touch of silver about the edges of the thunder-cloud still hanging away off somewhere on
the sky-line.

                     Wednesday the Twenty-fifth

There was indeed something wrong. I knew that the moment I heard Dinky-Dunk come into the house.
I knew it by the way he let the storm-door swing shut, by the way he crossed the hall as far
as the living-room door and then turned back, by the way he slowly mounted the stairs and passed
leaden-footed on to his study. And I knew that this time there'd be no "Are you there, Little
Mother?" or "Where beest thou, Boca Chica?"

I'd Poppsy and Pee-Wee safe and sound asleep in the swing-box that dour old Whinstane Sandy
had manufactured out of a packing-case, with Francois' robe of plaited rabbit-skin to keep
their tootsies warm. I'd finished my ironing and bathed little Dinkie and buttoned him up in
his sleepers and made him hold his little hands together while I said his "Now-I-lay-me" and
tucked him up in his crib with his broken mouth-organ and his beloved red-topped shoes under
the pillow, so that he could find them there first thing in the morning and bestow on them
his customary matutinal kiss of adoration. And I was standing at the nursery window, pretty
tired in body but foolishly happy and serene in spirit, staring out across the leagues of open
prairie at the last of the sunset.

It was one of those wonderful sunsets of the winter-end that throw wine-stains back across
this bald old earth and make you remember that although the green hasn't yet awakened into
life there's release on the way. It was a sunset with an infinite depth to its opal and gold
and rose and a whisper of spring in its softly prolonged afterglow. It made me glad and sad
all at once, for while there was a hint of vast re-awakenings in the riotous wine-glow that
merged off into pale green to the north, there was also a touch of loneliness in the flat and
far-flung sky-line. It seemed to recede so bewilderingly and so oppressively into a silence
and into an emptiness which the lonely plume of smoke from one lonely shack-chimney both crowned
and accentuated with a wordless touch of poignancy.

That pennon of shack-smoke, dotting the northern horizon, seemed to become something valorous
and fine. It seemed to me to typify the spirit of man pioneering along the fringes of desolation,
adventuring into the unknown, conquering the untamed realms of his world. And it was a good
old world, I suddenly felt, a patient and bountiful old world with its Browningesque old bones
set out in the last of the sun--until I heard my Dinky-Dunk go lumbering up to his study and
quietly yet deliberately shut himself in, as I gave one last look at Poppsy and Pee-Wee to
make sure they were safely covered. Then I stood stock-still in the center of the nursery,
wondering whether, at such a time, I ought to go to my husband or keep away from him.

I decided, after a minute or two of thought, to bide a wee. So I slipped quietly down-stairs
and stowed Dinkie's overturned kiddie-car away in the cloak-room and warned Iroquois Annie--the
meekest-looking Redskin ever togged out in the cap and apron of domestic servitude--not to
burn my fricassee of frozen prairie-chicken and not to scorch the scones so beloved by my Scotch-Canadian
lord and master. Then I inspected the supper table and lighted the lamp with the Ruskin-green
shade and supplanted Dinky-Dunk's napkin that had a coffee-stain along its edge with a fresh
one from the linen-drawer. Then, after airing the house to rid it of the fumes from Iroquois
Annie's intemperate griddle and carrying Dinkie's muddied overshoes back to the kitchen and
lighting the Chinese hall-lamp, I went to the bottom of the stairs to call my husband down
to supper.

But still again that wordless feeling of something amiss prompted me to hesitate. So instead
of calling blithely out of him, as I had intended, I went silently up the stairs. Then I slipped
along the hall and just as silently opened his study door.

My husband was sitting at his desk, confronted by a litter of papers and letters, which I knew
to be the mail he had just brought home and flung there. But he wasn't looking at anything
on his desk. He was merely sitting there staring vacantly out of the window at the paling light.
His elbows were on the arms of his Bank of England swivel-chair for which I'd made the green
baize seat-pad, and as I stared in at him, half in shadow, I had an odd impression of history
repeating itself. This puzzled me, for a moment, until I remembered having caught sight of
him in much the same attitude, only a few days before. But this time he looked so tired and
drawn and spineless that a fish-hook of sudden pity tugged at my throat. For my Dinky-Dunk
sat there without moving, with the hope and the joy of life drawn utterly out of his bony big
body. The heavy emptiness of his face, as rugged as a relief-map in the side-light, even made
me forget the smell of the scones Iroquois Annie was vindictively scorching down in the kitchen.
He didn't know, of course, that I was watching him, for he jumped as I signaled my presence
by slamming the door after stepping in through it. That jump, I knew, wasn't altogether due
to edgy nerves. It was also an effort at dissimulation, for his sudden struggle to get his
scattered lines of manhood together still carried a touch of the heroic. But I'd caught a glimpse
of his soul when it wasn't on parade. And I knew what I knew. He tried to work his poor old
harried face into a smile as I crossed over to his side. But, like Topsy's kindred, it died
a-borning.

"What's happened?" I asked, dropping on my knees close beside him.

Instead of answering me, he swung about in the swivel-chair so that he more directly faced
the window. The movement also served to pull away the hand which I had almost succeeded in
capturing. Nothing, I've found, can wound a real man more than pity.

"What's happened?" I repeated. For I knew, now, that something was really and truly and tragically
wrong, as plainly as though Dinky-Dunk had up and told me so by word of mouth. You can't live
with a man for nearly four years without growing into a sort of clairvoyant knowledge of those
subterranean little currents that feed the wells of mood and temper and character. He pushed
the papers on the desk away from him without looking at me.

"Oh, it's nothing much," he said. But he said it so listlessly I knew he was merely trying
to lie like a gentleman.

