Shakespeare's characters do not so adapt themselves to individual idiosyncrasies. No man can
hope to identify himself with them unless he can give wings to his faculties and soar above
the plane of his actual emotions. Often, no doubt, apparent triumphs have been gained by displays
of histrionic power that owed little to the informing spirit of the poet. But Macready has
never been accused of seeking such results: whatever his performances may have lacked, they
were always imbued with a fine intelligence which brought all the details into harmony and
kept the attention fixed on the conception of the character. Thus in Macbeth, which was perhaps,
on the whole, his most perfect impersonation, every look and gesture, every intonation, conveyed
the idea of one who lived on the border-line of an invisible world, to whom all shapes and
actions were half phantasmal, for whom clear vision and sober contemplation were impossible.
All his utterances were abrupt, all his movements hurried; a certain wildness, not of mere
mental agitation, but of a spirit nurtured on unrealities, marked his manner and countenance
throughout. In Hamlet there was the drawback of a physical appearance unsuited to the part.
Yet it was the character which he had studied most profoundly, and in which, as we remember
him in it, he held the most complete sway over the minds and feelings of his audiences. None
of his performances, as may be imagined, was so distinguished by its intellectuality, yet none
was so simply and irresistibly pathetic. The abstraction and self-communing in the delivery
of the famous soliloquy can never have been surpassed, and were probably never equaled; and
throughout the closet scene there was a reality in the tenderness, the vehemence, and the awe
which held the spectators breathless and spellbound. "Beautiful Hamlet, farewell, farewell!"
are his closing words in recording his last performance of the part. But this was no final
parting: while memory retained her seat in the mind of this great artist, this true and loving
servant of Shakespeare's genius, the matchless creations with which he had so identified himself
could never cease to be the subjects of daily meditation. "On one occasion," we are told, "after
his powers had so much failed that it was long since he had been capable of holding or reading
a book to himself, he said he had been reading Hamlet. On some surprise being expressed, he
touched his forehead, and said 'Here;' and when asked if he could recollect the whole play,
he replied, 'Yes, every word, every pause; and the very pauses have eloquence.'"

Books Received

The Internal Mission of the Holy Ghost. By Henry Edward, Archbishop of Westminster New York:
D. & J. Sadlier.

Man and Beast Here and Hereafter. By Rev. J.G. Wood, M.A., F.L.S. New York: George Routledge & Son.

Lakey's Village and Country Houses, comprising eighty-four pages of Designs. New York: The
Orange Judd Co.

Social Science and National Economy. By R.E. Thompson, M.A. Philadelphia: Porter & Coates.

A Defence of the United States Patent System. By J.S. Perry. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.

Brief Biographies: English Statesmen. By T.W. Higginson. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

The Best Reading: Hints on the Selection of Books. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

How to Make a Living. By George C. Eggleston. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.

Ralph Wilton's Weird: A Novel. By Mrs. Alexander. New York: Henry Holt & Co.

Warrington's Manual. By William S. Robinson. Boston: Lee & Shepard.

Home Talks. By John H. Noyes. Published by the Oneida Community.

Spain and the Spaniards. By N.L. Thieblin. Boston: Lee & Shepard.

Social Pressure. By Sir Arthur Helps. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

In the Camargue. By Emily Bowles. Boston: Loring.