The Tunnels on the line are eight in number, their total length being 7336 yards.  The first
high ground encountered was Primrose Hill, where the stiff London clay was passed through for
a distance of about 1164 yards.  The clay was close, compact, and dry, more difficult to work
than stone itself.  It was entirely free from water; but the absorbing properties of the clay
were such that when exposed to the air it swelled out rapidly.  Hence an unusual thickness
of brick lining was found necessary; and the engineer afterwards informed the author that for
some time he entertained an apprehension lest the pressure should force in the brickwork altogether.
It was so great that it made the face of the bricks to fly off in minute chips which covered
his clothes whilst he was inspecting the work.  The materials used in the building were, however,
of excellent quality; and the tunnel was happily brought to a completion without any accident.

At Watford the chalk ridge was penetrated by a tunnel about 1800 yards long; and at Northchurch,
Lindslade, and Stowe Hill, there were other tunnels of minor extent.  But the chief difficulty
of the undertaking was the execution of that under the Kilsby ridge.  Though not the largest,
this is in many respects one of the most interesting works of the kind in England.  It is about
2400 yards long, and runs at an average depth of about 160 feet below the surface.  The ridge
under which it extends is of considerable extent, the famous battle of Naseby having been fought
upon one of the spurs of the same high ground about seven miles to the eastward.

Previous to the letting of the contract, the character of the underground soil was examined
by trial-shafts.  The tests indicated that it consisted of shale of the lower oolite, and the
works were let accordingly.  But they had scarcely been commenced when it was discovered that,
at an interval between the two trial-shafts which had been sunk, about 200 yards from the south
end of the tunnel, there existed an extensive quicksand under a bed of clay 40 feet thick,
which the borings had escaped in the most singular manner.  At the bottom of one of these shafts
the excavation and building of the tunnel were proceeding, when the roof at one part suddenly
gave way, a deluge of water burst in, and the party of workmen with the utmost difficulty escaped
with their lives. They were only saved by means of a raft, on which they were towed by one
of the engineers swimming with the rope in his mouth to the lower end of the shaft, out of
which they were safely lifted to the daylight.  The works were of course at that point immediately
stopped.

                 [Picture: The Shafts over Kilsby Tunnel]

The contractor, who had undertaken the construction of the tunnel, was so overwhelmed by the
calamity, that, though he was relieved by the Company from his engagement, he took to his bed
and shortly after died. Pumping-engines were then erected for the purpose of draining off the
water, but for a long time it prevailed, and sometimes even rose in the shaft.  The question
then presented itself, whether in the face of so formidable a difficulty, the works should
be proceeded with or abandoned. Robert Stephenson sent over to Alton Grange for his father,
and the two took serious counsel together.  George was in favour of pumping out the water from
the top by powerful engines erected over each shaft, until the water was mastered.  Robert
concurred in that view, and although other engineers pronounced strongly against the practicability
of the scheme and advised its abandonment, the directors authorised him to proceed; and powerful
steam-engines were ordered to be constructed and delivered without loss of time.

In the mean time, Robert suggested to his father the expediency of running a drift along the
heading from the south end of the tunnel, with the view of draining off the water in that way.
George said he thought it would scarcely answer, but that it was worth a trial, at all events
until the pumping-engines were got ready.  Robert accordingly gave orders for the drift to
be proceeded with.  The excavators were immediately set to work; and they were very soon close
upon the sand bed.  One day, when the engineer, his assistants, and the workmen were clustered
about the open entrance of the drift-way, they heard a sudden roar as of distant thunder. 
It was hoped that the water had burst in—for all the workmen were out of the drift,—and that
the sand bed would now drain itself off in a natural way.  Instead of which, very little water
made its appearance; and on examining the inner end of the drift, it was found that the loud
noise had been caused by the sudden discharge into it of an immense mass of sand, which had
completely choked up the passage, and prevented the water from flowing away.

The engineer now found that there was nothing for it but to sink numerous additional shafts
over the line of the tunnel at the points at which it crossed the quicksand, and endeavour
to master the water by sheer force of engines and pumps.  The engines erected, possessed an
aggregate power of 160 horses; and they went on pumping for eight successive months, emptying
out an almost incredible quantity of water.  It was found that the water, with which the bed
of sand extending over many miles was charged, was to a certain degree held back by the particles
of the sand itself, and that it could only percolate through at a certain average rate.  It
appeared in its flow to take a slanting direction to the suction of the pumps, the angle of
inclination depending upon the coarseness or fineness of the sand, and regulating the time
of the flow. Hence the distribution of the pumping power at short intervals along the line
of the tunnel had a much greater effect than the concentration of that power at any one spot.
It soon appeared that the water had found its master.  Protected by the pumps, which cleared
a space for the engineering operations—carried on in the midst, as it were, of two almost perpendicular
walls of water and sand on either side—the workmen proceeded with the building of the tunnel
at numerous points.  Every exertion was used to wall in the dangerous parts as quickly as possible;
the excavators and bricklayers labouring night and day until the work was finished.  Even while
under the protection of the immense pumping power above described, it often happened that the
bricks were scarcely covered with cement ready for the setting, ere they were washed quite
clean by the streams of water which poured from overhead.  The men were accordingly under the
necessity of holding over their work large whisks of straw and other appliances to protect
the bricks and cement at the moment of setting.

The quantity of water pumped out of the sand bed during eight months of incessant pumping,
averaged 2,000 gallons per minute, raised from an average depth of 120 feet.  It is difficult
to form an adequate idea of the bulk of the water thus raised, but it may be stated that if
allowed to flow for three hours only, it would fill a lake one acre square to the depth of
one foot, and if allowed to flow for one entire day it would fill the lake to over eight feet
in depth, or sufficient to float vessels of 100 tons burthen.  The water pumped out of the
tunnel while the work was in progress would be nearly equivalent to the contents of the Thames
at high water, between London and Woolwich.  It is a curious circumstance that notwithstanding
the quantity thus removed, the level of the surface of the water in the tunnel was only lowered
about 2½ to 3 inches per week, proving the vast area of the quicksand, which probably extended
along the entire ridge of land under which the railway passed.

The cost of the line was greatly increased by the difficulties encountered at Kilsby.  The
original estimate for the tunnel was only £99,000; but before it was finished it had cost more
than £100 per lineal yard forward, or a total of nearly £300,000.  The expenditure on the other
parts of the line also greatly exceeded the amount first set down by the engineer; and before
the works were finished it was more than doubled.  The land cost three times more than the
estimate; and the claims for compensation were enormous.  Although the contracts were let within
the estimates, very few of the contractors were able to complete them without the assistance
of the Company, and many became bankrupt.

The magnitude of the works, which were unprecedented in England, was one of the most remarkable
features in the undertaking.  The following striking comparison has been made between this
railway and one of the greatest works of ancient times.  The Great Pyramid of Egypt was, according
to Diodorus Siculus, constructed by 300,000—according to Herodotus, by 100,000—men.  It required
for its execution twenty years, and the labour expended upon it has been estimated as equivalent
to lifting 15,733,000,000 of cubic feet of stone one foot high.  Whereas, if the labour expended
in constructing the London and Birmingham Railway be in like manner reduced to one common denomination
the result is 25,000,000,000 of cubic feet more than was lifted for the Great Pyramid; and
yet the English work was performed by about 20,000 men in less than five years.  And whilst
the Egyptian work was executed by a powerful monarch concentrating upon it the labour and capital
of a great nation, the English railway was constructed, in the face of every conceivable obstruction
and difficulty, by a company of private individuals out of their own resources, without the
aid of Government or the contribution of one farthing of public money.

The labourers who executed this formidable work were in many respects a remarkable class. 
The “railway navvies,” as they are called, were men drawn by the attraction of good wages from
all parts of the kingdom; and they were ready for any sort of hard work.  Some of the best
came from the fen districts of Lincoln and Cambridge, where they had been trained to execute
works of excavation and embankment.  These old practitioners formed a nucleus of skilled manipulation
and aptitude, which rendered them of indispensable utility in the immense undertakings of the
period. Their expertness in all sorts of earthwork, in embanking, boring, and well-sinking—their
practical knowledge of the nature of soils and rocks, the tenacity of clays, and the porosity
of certain stratifications—were very great; and, rough-looking though they were, many of them
were as important in their own department as the contractor or the engineer.

During the railway-making period the navvy wandered about from one public work to another—apparently
belonging to no country and having no home. He usually wore a white felt hat with the brim
turned up, a velveteen or jean square-tailed coat, a scarlet plush waistcoat with little black
spots, and a bright-coloured kerchief round his herculean neck, when, as often happened, it
was not left entirely bare.  His corduroy breeches were retained in position by a leathern
strap round the waist, and were tied and buttoned at the knee, displaying beneath a solid calf
and foot encased in strong high-laced boots.  Joining together in a “butty gang,” some ten
or twelve of these men would take a contract to cut out and remove so much “dirt”—as they denominated
earth-cutting—fixing their price according to the character of the “stuff,” and the distance
to which it had to be wheeled and tipped.  The contract taken, every man put himself on his
mettle; if any was found skulking, or not putting forth his full working power, he was ejected
from the gang.  Their powers of endurance were extraordinary.  In times of emergency they would
work for 12 and even 16 hours, with only short intervals for meals.  The quantity of flesh-meat
which they consumed was something enormous; but it was to their bones and muscles what coke
is to the locomotive—the means of keeping up the steam.  They displayed great pluck, and seemed
to disregard peril.  Indeed the most dangerous sort of labour—such as working horse-barrow
runs, in which accidents are of constant occurrence—has always been most in request amongst
them, the danger seeming to be one of its chief recommendations.

Working, eating, drinking, and sleeping together, and daily exposed to the same influences,
these railway labourers soon presented a distinct and well-defined character, strongly marking
them from the population of the districts in which they laboured.  Reckless alike of their
lives as of their earnings, the navvies worked hard and lived hard.  For their lodging, a hut
of turf would content them; and, in their hours of leisure, the meanest public-house would
serve for their parlour. Unburdened, as they usually were, by domestic ties, unsoftened by
family affection, and without much moral or religious training, the navvies came to be distinguished
by a sort of savage manners, which contrasted strangely with those of the surrounding population.
Yet, ignorant and violent though they might be, they were usually good-hearted fellows in the
main—frank and openhanded with their comrades, and ready to share their last penny with those
in distress.  Their pay-nights were often a saturnalia of riot and disorder, dreaded by the
inhabitants of the villages along the line of works.  The irruption of such men into the quiet
hamlet of Kilsby must, indeed, have produced a very startling effect on the recluse inhabitants
of the place.  Robert Stephenson used to tell a story of the clergyman of the parish waiting
upon the foreman of one of the gangs to expostulate with him as to the shocking impropriety
of his men working during Sunday.  But the head navvy merely hitched up his trousers, and said,
“Why, Soondays hain’t cropt out here yet!”  In short, the navvies were little better than heathens,
and the village of Kilsby was not restored to its wonted quiet until the tunnel-works were
finished, and the engines and scaffoldings removed, leaving only the immense masses of débris
around the line of shafts which extend along the top of the tunnel.

In illustration of the extraordinary working energy and powers of endurance of the English
navvies, we may mention that when railway-making extended to France, the English contractors
for the works took with them gangs of English navvies, with the usual plant, which included
wheelbarrows.  These the English navvy was accustomed to run out rapidly and continuously,
piled so high with “stuff” that he could barely see over the summit of his load, the gang-board
along which he wheeled his barrow.  While he thus easily ran out some 3 or 4 cwt. at a time,
the French navvy was contented with half the weight.  Indeed, the French navvies on one occasion
struck work because of the size of the English barrows, and there was an émeute on the Rouen
Railway, which was only quelled by the aid of the military.  The consequence was that the big
barrows were abandoned to the English workmen, who earned nearly double the wages of the Frenchmen.

The rapidity with which railways were carried out, when the spirit of the country became roused,
was indeed remarkable.  This was doubtless in some measure owing to the increased force of
the current of speculation at the time, but chiefly to the desire which the public began to
entertain for the general extension of the system.  It was even proposed to fill up the canals,
and convert them into railways.  The new roads became the topic of conversation in all circles;
they were felt to give a new value to time; their vast capabilities for “business” peculiarly
recommended them to the trading classes; whilst the friends of “progress” dilated on the great
benefits they would eventually confer upon mankind at large.  It began to be seen that Edward
Pease had not been exaggerating when he said, “Let the country but make the railroads, and
the railroads will make the country!”  They also came to be regarded as inviting objects of
investment to the thrifty, and a safe outlet for the accumulations of inert men of capital.
Thus new avenues of iron road were soon in course of formation, branching in all directions,
so that the country promised in a wonderfully short time to become wrapped in one vast network
of iron.

In 1836 the Grand Junction Railway was under construction between Warrington and Birmingham—the
northern part by Mr. Stephenson, and the southern by Mr. Rastrick.  The works on that line
embraced heavy cuttings, long embankments, and numerous viaducts; but none of these are worthy
of any special description.  Perhaps the finest piece of masonry on the railway is the Dutton
Viaduct across the valley of the Weaver.  It consists of twenty arches of 60 feet span, springing
16 feet from the perpendicular shaft of each pier, and 60 feet in height from the crown of
the arches to the level of the river.  The foundations of the piers were built on piles driven
20 feet deep.  The structure has a solid and majestic appearance, and is perhaps the finest
of George Stephenson’s viaducts.

                      [Picture: The Dutton Viaduct]

The Manchester and Leeds line was in progress at the same time—an important railway connecting
the principal manufacturing towns of Yorkshire and Lancashire.  An attempt was made to obtain
the Act as early as 1831; but its promoters were defeated by the powerful opposition of the
landowners aided by the canal companies, and the project was not revived for several years.
The line was somewhat circuitous, and the works were heavy; but on the whole the gradients
were favourable, and it had the advantage of passing through a district full of manufacturing
towns and villages, teeming hives of population, industry, and enterprise.  The Act authorising
the construction of the railway was obtained in 1836; it was greatly amended in the succeeding
year, and the first ground was broken on the 18th August, 1837.

In conducting this project to an issue, the engineer had the usual opposition and prejudices
to encounter.  Predictions were confidently made in many quarters that the line could never
succeed.  It was declared that the utmost engineering skill could not construct a railway through
such a country of hills and hard rocks; and it was maintained that, even if the railroad were
practicable, it could only be made at a ruinous cost.

During the progress of the works, as the Summit Tunnel, near Littleborough, was approaching
completion, the rumour was spread abroad in Manchester that the tunnel had fallen in and buried
a number of the workmen.  The last arch had been keyed in, and the work was all but finished,
when the accident occurred which was thus exaggerated by the lying tongue of rumour.  An invert
had given way through the irregular pressure of the surrounding earth and rock at a part of
the tunnel where a “fault” had occurred in the strata.  A party of the directors accompanied
the engineer to inspect the scene of the accident.  They entered the tunnel’s mouth preceded
by upwards of fifty navvies, each bearing a torch.

After walking a distance of about half a mile, the inspecting party arrived at the scene of
the “frightful accident,” about which so much alarm had been spread.  All that was visible
was a certain unevenness of the ground, which had been forced up by the invert under it giving
way; thus the ballast had been loosened, the drain running along the centre of the road had
been displaced, and small pools of water stood about.  But the whole of the walls and the roof
were still as perfect as at any other part of the tunnel.

         [Picture: Entrance to the Summit Tunnel, Littleborough]

The engineer explained the cause of the accident; the blue shale, he said, through which the
excavation passed at that point, was considered so hard and firm, as to render it unnecessary
to build the invert very strong there.  But shale is always a deceptive material.  Subjected
to the influence of the atmosphere, it gives but a treacherous support.  In this case, falling
away like quicklime, it had left the lip of the invert alone to support the pressure of the
arch above, and hence its springing inwards and upwards.  Mr. Stephenson directed the attention
of the visitors to the completeness of the arch overhead, where not the slightest fracture
or yielding could be detected.  Speaking of the work, in the course of the same day, he said,
“I will stake my character and my head, if that tunnel ever give way, so as to cause danger
to any of the public passing through it.  Taking it as a whole, I don’t think there is such
another piece of work in the world.  It is the greatest work that has yet been done of this
kind, and there has been less repairing than is usual,—though an engineer might well be beaten
in his calculations, for he cannot beforehand see into those little fractured parts of the
earth he may meet with.”  As Stephenson had promised, the invert was put in; and the tunnel
was made perfectly safe.

The construction of this subterranean road employed the labour of above a thousand men for
nearly four years.  Besides excavating the arch out of a solid rock, they used 23,000,000 of
bricks, and 8000 tons of Roman cement in the building of the tunnel.  Thirteen stationary engines,
and about 100 horses, were also employed in drawing the earth and stone out of the shafts.
Its entire length is 2869 yards, or nearly 1¾ mile—exceeding the famous Kilsby Tunnel by 471 yards.

The Midland Railway was a favourite line of Mr. Stephenson’s for several reasons.  It passed
through a rich mining district, in which it opened up many valuable coalfields, and it formed
part of the great main line of communication between London and Edinburgh.  The Act was obtained
in 1836, and the first ground was broken in February, 1837.

Although the Midland Railway was only one of the many great works of the same kind executed
at that time, it was almost enough of itself to be the achievement of a life.  Compare it,
for example with Napoleon’s military road over the Simplon, and it will at once be seen how
greatly it excels that work, not only in the constructive skill displayed in it, but also in
its cost and magnitude, and the amount of labour employed in its formation.  The road of the
Simplon is 45 miles in length; the North Midland Railway is 72½ miles.  The former has 50 bridges
and 5 tunnels, measuring together 1338 feet in length; the latter has 200 bridges and 7 tunnels,
measuring together 11,400 feet, or about 2¼ miles.  The former cost about £720,000 sterling,
the latter above £3,000,000.  Napoleon’s grand military road was constructed in six years,
at the public cost of the two great kingdoms of France and Italy; while Stephenson’s railway
was formed in about three years, by a company of private merchants and capitalists out of their
own funds, and under their own superintendence.

It is scarcely necessary that we should give any account in detail of the North Midland works.
The making of one tunnel so much resembles the making of another,—the building of bridges and
viaducts, no matter how extensive, so much resembles the building of others,—the cutting out
of “dirt,” the blasting of rocks, and the wheeling of excavation into embankments, is so much
a matter of mere time and hard work,—that is quite unnecessary for us to detain the reader
by any attempt at their description.  Of course there were the usual difficulties to encounter
and overcome,—but the railway engineer regarded these as mere matters of course, and would
probably have been disappointed if they had not presented themselves.

On the Midland, as on other lines, water was the great enemy to be fought against,—water in
the Claycross and other tunnels,—water in the boggy or sandy foundations of bridges,—and water
in cuttings and embankments.  As an illustration of the difficulties of bridge building, we
may mention the case of the five-arch bridge over the Derwent, where it took two years’ work,
night and day, to get in the foundations of the piers alone. Another curious illustration of
the mischief done by water in cuttings may be briefly mentioned.  At a part of the North Midland
Line, near Ambergate, it was necessary to pass along a hillside in a cutting a few yards deep.
As the cutting proceeded, a seam of shale was cut across, lying at an inclination of 6 to 1;
and shortly after, the water getting behind the bed of shale, the whole mass of earth along
the hill above began to move down across the line of excavation.  The accident completely upset
the estimates of the contractor, who, instead of 50,000 cubic yards, found that he had about
500,000 to remove; the execution of this part of the railway occupying fifteen months instead
of two.

        [Picture: Land-slip on North Midland Line, near Ambergate]

The Oakenshaw cutting near Wakefield was also of a very formidable character.  About 600,000
yards of rock shale and bind were quarried out of it, and led to form the adjoining Oakenshaw
embankment.  The Normanton cutting was almost as heavy, requiring the removal of 400,000 yards
of the same kind of excavation into embankment and spoil.  But the progress of the works on
the line was so rapid in 1839, that not less than 450,000 cubic yards of excavation were removed
monthly.

                  [Picture: Bullbridge, near Ambergate]

As a curiosity in construction, we may also mention a very delicate piece of work executed
on the same railway at Bullbridge in Derbyshire, where the line at the same point passes over
a bridge which here spans the river Amber, and under the bed of the Cromford Canal.  Water,
bridge; railway, and canal, were thus piled one above the other, four stories high; such another
curious complication probably not existing.  In order to prevent the possibility of the waters
of the canal breaking in upon the works of the railroad, Mr. Stephenson had an iron trough
made, 150 feet long, of the width of the canal, and exactly fitting the bottom.  It was brought
to the spot in three pieces, which were firmly welded together, and the trough was then floated
into its place and sunk; the whole operation being completed without in the least interfering
with the navigation of the canal.  The railway works underneath were then proceeded with and
finished.

Another line of the same series constructed by George Stephenson, was the York and North Midland,
extending from Normanton—a point on the Midland Railway—to York; but it was a line of easy
formation, traversing a comparatively level country.

During the time that our engineer was engaged in superintending the execution of these undertakings,
he was occupied upon other projected railways in various parts of the country.  He surveyed
several lines in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, and afterwards routes along the east coast from
Newcastle to Edinburgh, with the view of completing the main line of communication with London.
When out on foot in the fields, on these occasions, he was ever foremost in the march; and
he delighted to test the prowess of his companions by a good jump at any hedge or ditch that
lay in their way.  His companions used to remark his singular quickness of observation.  Nothing
escaped his attention—the trees, the crops, the birds, or the farmer’s stock; and he was usually
full of lively conversation, everything in nature affording him an opportunity for making some
striking remark, or propounding some ingenious theory.  When taking a flying survey of a new
line, his keen observation proved very useful to him, for he rapidly noted the general configuration
of the country, and inferred its geological structure.  He afterwards remarked to a friend,
“I have planned many a railway travelling along in a postchaise, and following the natural
line of the country.”  And it was remarkable that his first impressions of the direction to
be taken almost invariably proved correct; and there are few of the lines surveyed and recommended
by him which have not been executed, either during his lifetime or since.  As an illustration
of his quick and shrewd observation on such occasions, we may mention that when employed to
lay out a line to connect Manchester, through Macclesfield, with the Potteries, the gentleman
who accompanied him on the journey of inspection cautioned him to provide large accommodation
for carrying off the water, observing—“You must not judge by the appearance of the brooks;
for after heavy rains these hills pour down volumes of water, of which you can have no conception.”
“Pooh! pooh! don’t I see your bridges?” replied the engineer.  He had noted the details of
each as he passed along.

Among the other projects which occupied his attention about the same time, were the projected
lines between Chester and Holyhead, between Leeds and Bradford, and between Lancaster and Maryport
by the western coast.  This latter was intended to form part of a west-coast line to Scotland;
Stephenson favouring it partly because of the flatness of the gradients, and also because it
could be formed at comparatively small cost, whilst it would open out a valuable iron-mining
district, from which a large traffic in ironstone was expected.  One of its collateral advantages,
in the engineer’s opinion, was, that by forming the railway directly across Morecambe Bay,
on the north-west coast of Lancashire, a large tract of valuable land might be reclaimed from
the sea, the sale of which would considerably reduce the cost of the works.  He estimated that
by means of a solid embankment across the bay, not less than 40,000 acres of rich alluvial
land would be gained.  He proposed to carry the road across the ten miles of sands which lie
between Poulton, near Lancaster, and Humphrey Head on the opposite coast, forming the line
in a segment of a circle of five miles’ radius.  His plan was to drive in piles across the
entire length, forming a solid fence of stone blocks on the land side for the purpose of retaining
the sand and silt brought down by the rivers from the interior.  The embankment would then
be raised from time to time as the deposit accumulated, until the land was filled up to high-water
mark; provision being made by means of sufficient arches, for the flow of the river waters
into the bay.  The execution of the railway after this plan would, however, have occupied more
years than the promoters of the West Coast line were disposed to wait; and eventually Mr. Locke’s
more direct but uneven line by Shap Fell was adopted.  A railway has since been carried across
the head of the bay; and it is not improbable that Stephenson’s larger scheme of reclaiming
the vast tract of land now left bare at each receding tide, may yet be carried out.

While occupied in carrying out the great railway undertakings which we have above so briefly
described, Mr. Stephenson’s home continued, for the greater part of the time, to be at Alton
Grange, near Leicester.  But he was so much occupied in travelling about from one committee
of directors to another—one week in England, another in Scotland, and probably the next in
Ireland,—that he often did not see his home for weeks together. He had also to make frequent
inspections of the various important and difficult works in progress, especially on the Midland
and Manchester and Leeds lines; besides occasionally going to Newcastle to see how the locomotive
works were going on there.  During the three years ending in 1837—perhaps the busiest years
of his life {263}—he travelled by postchaise alone upwards of 20,000 miles, and yet not less
than six months out of the three years were spent in London.  Hence there is comparatively
little to record of Mr. Stephenson’s private life at this period; during which he had scarcely
a moment that he could call his own.

His correspondence increased so much, that he found it necessary to engage a private secretary,
who accompanied him on his journeys.  He was himself exceedingly averse to writing letters.
The comparatively advanced age at which ho learnt the art of writing, and the nature of his
duties while engaged at the Killingworth colliery, precluded that facility in correspondence
which only constant practice can give.  He gradually, however, acquired great facility in dictation,
and possessed the power of labouring continuously at this work; the gentleman who acted as
his secretary in 1835, having informed us that during his busy season he one day dictated not
fewer than 37 letters, several of them embodying the results of much close thinking and calculation.
On another occasion, he dictated reports and letters for twelve continuous hours, until his
secretary was ready to drop off his chair from sheer exhaustion, and at length he pleaded for
a suspension of the labour.  This great mass of correspondence, although closely bearing on
the subjects under discussion, was not, however, of a kind to supply the biographer with matter
for quotation, or give that insight into the life and character of the writer which the letters
of literary men so often furnish.  They were, for the most part, letters of mere business,
relating to works in progress, parliamentary contests, new surveys, estimates of cost, and
railway policy,—curt, and to the point; in short, the letters of a man every moment of whose
time was precious.  He was also frequently called upon to inspect and report upon colliery
works, salt works, brass and copper works, and such like, in addition to his own colliery and
railway business.  And occasionally he would run up to London, for the purpose of attending
in person to the preparation and deposit of the plans and sections of the projected undertakings
of which he had been appointed engineer.

Fortunately Stephenson possessed a facility of sleeping, which enabled him to pass through
this enormous amount of fatigue and labour without injury to his health.  He had been trained
in a hard school, and could bear with ease conditions which, to men more softly nurtured, would
have been the extreme of physical discomfort.  Many, many nights he snatched his sleep while
travelling in his chaise; and at break of day he would be at work, surveying until dark, and
this for weeks in succession.  His whole powers seemed to be under the control of his will,
for he could wake at any hour, and go to work at once.  It was difficult for secretaries and
assistants to keep up with such a man.

It is pleasant to record that in the midst of these engrossing occupations, his heart remained
as soft and loving as ever.  In spring-time he would not be debarred of his boyish pursuit
of bird-nesting; but would go rambling along the hedges spying for nests. In the autumn he
went nutting, and when he could snatch a few minutes he indulged in his old love of gardening.
His uniform kindness and good temper, and his communicative, intelligent disposition, made
him a great favourite with the neighbouring farmers, to whom he would volunteer much valuable
advice on agricultural operations, drainage, ploughing, and labour-saving processes.  Sometimes
he took a long rural ride on his favourite “Bobby,” now growing old, but as fond of his master
as ever. Towards the end of his life, “Bobby” lived in clover, its master’s pet, doing no work;
and he died at Tapton, in 1845, more than twenty years old.

During one of George’s brief sojourns at the Grange, he found time to write to his son a touching
account of a pair of robins that had built their nest within one of the upper chambers of the
house.  One day he observed a robin fluttering outside the windows, and beating its wings against
the panes, as if eager to gain admission.  He went up stairs, and there found, in a retired
part of one of the rooms, a robin’s nest, with one of the parent birds sitting over three or
four young—all dead.  The excluded bird outside still beat against the panes; and on the window
being let down, it flew into the room, but was so exhausted that it dropped upon the floor.
Mr. Stephenson took up the bird, carried it down stairs, had it warmed and fed.  The poor robin
revived, and for a time was one of his pets.  But it shortly died too, as if unable to recover
from the privations it had endured during its three days’ fluttering and beating at the windows.
It appeared that the room had been unoccupied, and, the sash having been let down, the robins
had taken the opportunity of building their nest within it; but the servant having closed the
window again, the calamity befel the birds which so strongly excited Mr. Stephenson’s sympathies.
An incident such as this, trifling though it may seem, gives the true key to the heart of the man.

The amount of their Parliamentary business having greatly increased with the projection of
new lines of railway, the Stephensons found it necessary to set up an office in London in 1836.
George’s first office was at 9, Duke Street, Westminster, from whence he removed in the following
year to 30½, Great George-street.  That office was the busy scene of railway politics for several
years.  There consultations were held, schemes were matured, deputations were received, and
many projectors called upon our engineer for the purpose of submitting to him their plans of
railways and railway working.  His private secretary at the time has informed us that at the
end of the first Parliamentary session in which he had been engaged as engineer for more companies
than one, it became necessary for him to give instructions as to the preparation of the accounts
to be rendered to the respective companies. In the simplicity of his heart, he directed Mr.
Binns to take his full time at the rate of ten guineas a day, and charge the railway companies
in the proportion in which he had been actually employed on their respective business during
each day.  When Robert heard of this instruction, he went directly to his father and expostulated
with him against this unprofessional course; and, other influences being brought to bear upon
him, George at length reluctantly consented to charge as other engineers did, an entire day’s
fee to each of the Companies for which he was concerned whilst their business was going forward;
but he cut down the number of days charged for and reduced the daily amount from ten to seven
guineas.

Besides his journeys at home, Mr. Stephenson was on more than one occasion called abroad on
railway business.  Thus, at the desire of King Leopold, he made several visits to Belgium to
assist the Belgian engineers in laying out the national lines of that kingdom.  That enlightened
monarch at an early period discerned the powerful instrumentality of railways in developing
a country’s resources, and he determined at the earliest possible period to adopt them as the
great high-roads of the nation.  The country, being rich in coal and minerals, had great manufacturing
capabilities.  It had good ports, fine navigable rivers, abundant canals, and a teeming, industrious
population.  Leopold perceived that railways were eminently calculated to bring the industry
of the country into full play, and to render the riches of the provinces available to the rest
of the kingdom.  He therefore openly declared himself the promoter of public railways throughout
Belgium.  A system of lines was projected, at his instance, connecting Brussels with the chief
towns and cities of the kingdom; extending from Ostend eastward to the Prussian frontier, and
from Antwerp southward to the French frontier.

Mr. Stephenson and his son, as the leading railway-engineers of England, were consulted by
the King on the best mode of carrying out his important plans, as early as 1835.  In the course
of that year they visited Belgium, and had several interesting conferences with Leopold and
his ministers on the subject of the proposed railways.  The King then appointed George Stephenson
by royal ordinance a Knight of the Order of Leopold.  At the invitation of the monarch, Mr.
Stephenson made a second visit to Belgium in 1837, on the occasion of the public opening of
the line from Brussels to Ghent.  At Brussels there was a public procession, and another at
Ghent on the arrival of the train.  Stephenson and his party accompanied it to the Public Hall,
there to dine with the chief Ministers of State, the municipal authorities, and about five
hundred of the principal inhabitants of the city; the English Ambassador being also present.
After the King’s health and a few others had been drunk, that of Mr. Stephenson was proposed;
on which the whole assembly rose up, amidst great excitement and loud applause, and made their
way to where he sat, in order to jingle glasses with him, greatly to his own amazement. On
the day following, our engineer dined with the King and Queen at their own table at Laaken,
by special invitation; afterwards accompanying his Majesty and suite to a public ball given
by the municipality of Brussels, in honour of the opening of the line to Ghent, as well as
of their distinguished English guest.  On entering the room, the general and excited inquiry
was, “Which is Stephenson?”  The English engineer had not before imagined that he was esteemed
to be so great a man.

The London and Birmingham Railway having been completed in September, 1838, after being about
five years in progress, the great main system of railway communication between London, Liverpool,
and Manchester was then opened to the public.  For some months previously, the line had been
partially opened, coaches performing the journey between Denbigh Hall (near Wolverton) and
Rugby,—the works of the Kilsby tunnel being still incomplete.  It was already amusing to hear
the complaints of the travellers about the slowness of the coaches as compared with the railway,
though the coaches travelled at the speed of eleven miles an hour.  The comparison of comfort
was also greatly to the disparagement of the coaches.  Then the railway train could accommodate
any quantity, whilst the road conveyances were limited; and when a press of travellers occurred—as
on the occasion of the Queen’s coronation—the greatest inconvenience was experienced, and as
much as £10 was paid for a seat on a donkey-chaise between Rugby and Denbigh.  On the opening
of the railway throughout, of course all this inconvenience and delay was brought to an end.

Numerous other openings of railways constructed by Mr. Stephenson took place about the same
time.  The Birmingham and Derby line was opened for traffic in August, 1839; the Sheffield
and Rotherham in November, 1839; and in the course of the following year, the Midland, the
York and North Midland, the Chester and Crewe, the Chester and Birkenhead, the Manchester and
Birmingham, the Manchester and Leeds, and the Maryport and Carlisle railways, were all publicly
opened in whole or in part.  Thus 321 miles of railway (exclusive of the London and Birmingham)
constructed under Mr. Stephenson’s superintendence, at a cost of upwards of eleven millions
sterling, were, in the course of about two years, added to the traffic accommodation of the
country.

The ceremonies which accompanied the public opening of these lines were often of an interesting
character.  The adjoining population held general holiday; bands played, banners waved, and
assembled thousands cheered the passing trains amidst the occasional booming of cannon.  The
proceedings were usually wound up by a public dinner; and in the course of the speeches which
followed, Mr. Stephenson would revert to his favourite topic—the difficulties which he had
early encountered in the promotion of the railway system, and in establishing the superiority
of the locomotive.  On such occasions he always took great pleasure in alluding to the services
rendered to himself and the public by the young men brought up under his eye—his pupils at
first, and afterwards his assistants.  No great master ever possessed a more devoted band of
assistants and fellow-workers than he did.  It was one of the most marked evidences of his
own admirable tact and judgment that he selected, with such undeviating correctness, the men
best fitted to carry out his plans. Indeed, the ability to accomplish great things, and to
carry grand ideas into practical effect, depends in no small measure on that intuitive knowledge
of character, which Stephenson possessed in so remarkable a degree.

At the dinner at York, which followed the partial opening of the York and North Midland Railway,
Mr. Stephenson said, “he was sure they would appreciate his feelings when he told them, that
when he first began railway business his hair was black, although it was now grey; and that
he began his life’s labour as but a poor ploughboy.  About thirty years since, he had applied
himself to the study of how to generate high velocities by mechanical means.  He thought he
had solved that problem; and they had for themselves seen, that day, what perseverance had
brought him too.  He was, on that occasion, only too happy to have an opportunity of acknowledging
that he had, in the latter portion of his career, received much most valuable assistance, particularly
from young men brought up in his manufactory.  Whenever talent showed itself in a young man
he had always given that talent encouragement where he could, and he would continue to do so.”

That this was no exaggerated statement is amply proved by many facts which redound to Mr. Stephenson’s
credit.  He was no niggard of encouragement and praise when he saw honest industry struggling
for a footing.  Many were the young men whom, in the course of his useful career, he took by
the hand and led steadily up to honour and emolument, simply because he had noted their zeal,
diligence, and integrity.  One youth excited his interest while working as a common carpenter
on the Liverpool and Manchester line; and before many years had passed, he was recognised as
an engineer of distinction.  Another young man he found industriously working away at his bye-hours,
and, admiring his diligence, engaged him for his private secretary, the gentleman shortly after
rising to a position of eminent influence and usefulness.  Indeed, nothing gave Mr. Stephenson
greater pleasure than in this way to help on any deserving youth who came under his observation,
and, in his own expressive phrase, to “make a man of him.”

The openings of the great main lines of railroad communication shortly proved the fallaciousness
of the numerous rash prophecies which had been promulgated by the opponents of railways.  The
proprietors of the canals were astounded by the fact that, notwithstanding the immense traffic
conveyed by rail, their own traffic and receipts continued to increase; and that, in common
with other interests, they fully shared in the expansion of trade and commerce which had been
so effectually promoted by the extension of the railway system.  The cattle-owners were equally
amazed to find the price of horse-flesh increasing with the extension of railways, and that
the number of coaches running to and from the new railway stations gave employment to a greater
number of horses than under the old stage-coach system.  Those who had prophesied the decay
of the metropolis, and the ruin of the suburban cabbage-growers, in consequence of the approach
of railways to London, were also disappointed; for, while the new roads let citizens out of
London, they let country-people in. Their action, in this respect, was centripetal as well
as centrifugal. Tens of thousands who had never seen the metropolis could now visit it expeditiously
and cheaply; and Londoners who had never visited the country, or but rarely, were enabled,
at little cost of time or money, to see green fields and clear blue skies, far from the smoke
and bustle of town.  If the dear suburban-grown cabbages became depreciated in value, there
were truck-loads of fresh-grown country cabbages to make amends for the loss: in this case,
the “partial evil” was a far more general good. The food of the metropolis became rapidly improved,
especially in the supply of wholesome meat and vegetables.  And then the price of coals—an
article which, in this country, is as indispensable as daily food to all classes—was greatly
reduced.  What a blessing to the metropolitan poor is described in this single fact!

The prophecies of ruin and disaster to landlords and farmers were equally confounded by the
openings of the railways.  The agricultural communications, so far from being “destroyed,”
as had been predicted, were immensely improved.  The farmers were enabled to buy their coals,
lime, and manure for less money, while they obtained a readier access to the best markets for
their stock and farm-produce.  Notwithstanding the predictions to the contrary, their cows
gave milk as before, their sheep fed and fattened, and even skittish horses ceased to shy at
the passing locomotive.  The smoke of the engines did not obscure the sky, nor were farmyards
burnt up by the fire thrown from the locomotives.  The farming classes were not reduced to
beggary; on the contrary, they soon felt that, so far from having anything to dread, they had
very much good to expect from the extension of railways.

Landlords also found that they could get higher rents for farms situated near a railway than
at a distance from one.  Hence they became clamorous for “sidings.”  They felt it to be a grievance
to be placed at a distance from a station.  After a railway had been once opened, not a landlord
would consent to have the line taken from him.  Owners who had fought the promoters before
Parliament, and compelled them to pass their domains at a distance, at a vastly-increased expense
in tunnels and deviations, now petitioned for branches and nearer station accommodation.  Those
who held property near towns, and had extorted large sums as compensation for the anticipated
deterioration in the value of their building land, found a new demand for it springing up at
greatly advanced prices.  Land was now advertised for sale, with the attraction of being “near
a railway station.”

The prediction that, even if railways were made, the public would not use them, was also completely
falsified by the results.  The ordinary mode of fast travelling for the middle classes had
heretofore been by mail-coach and stage-coach.  Those who could not afford to pay the high
prices charged for such conveyances went by waggon, and the poorer classes trudged on foot.
George Stephenson was wont to say that he hoped to see the day when it would be cheaper for
a poor man to travel by railway than to walk, and not many years passed before his expectation
was fulfilled. In no country in the world is time worth more money than in England; and by
saving time—the criterion of distance—the railway proved a great benefactor to men of industry
in all classes.

It was some time before the more opulent, who could afford to post to town in aristocratic
style, became reconciled to railway travelling.  In the opinion of many, it was only another
illustration of the levelling tendencies of the age.  It put an end to that gradation of rank
in travelling which was one of the few things left by which the nobleman could be distinguished
from the Manchester manufacturer and bagman.  But to younger sons of noble families the convenience
and cheapness of the railway did not fail to recommend itself.  One of these, whose eldest
brother had just succeeded to an earldom, said one day to a railway manager: “I like railways—they
just suit young fellows like me with ‘nothing per annum paid quarterly.’  You know we can’t
afford to post, and it used to be deuced annoying to me, as I was jogging along on the box-seat
of the stage-coach, to see the little Earl go by drawn by his four posters, and just look up
at me and give me a nod.  But now, with railways, it’s different.  It’s true, he may take a
first-class ticket, while I can only afford a second-class one, but we both go the same pace.”

For a time, however, many of the old families sent forward their servants and luggage by railroad,
and condemned themselves to jog along the old highway in the accustomed family chariot, dragged
by country post-horses. But the superior comfort of the railway shortly recommended itself
to even the oldest families; posting went out of date; post-horses were with difficulty to
be had along even the great high-roads; and nobles and servants, manufacturers and peasants,
alike shared in the comfort, the convenience, and the despatch of railway travelling.  The
late Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, regarded the opening of the London and Birmingham line as another
great step accomplished in the march of civilisation.  “I rejoice to see it,” he said, as he
stood on one of the bridges over the railway, and watched the train flashing along under him,
and away through the distant hedgerows—“I rejoice to see it, and to think that feudality is
gone for ever: it is so great a blessing to think that any one evil is really extinct.”

It was long before the late Duke of Wellington would trust himself behind a locomotive.  The
fatal accident to Mr. Huskisson, which had happened before his eyes, contributed to prejudice
him strongly against railways, and it was not until the year 1843 that he performed his first
trip on the South-Western Railway, in attendance upon her Majesty.  Prince Albert had for some
time been accustomed to travel by railway alone, but in 1842 the Queen began to make use of
the same mode of conveyance between Windsor and London.  Even Colonel Sibthorpe was eventually
compelled to acknowledge its utility.  For a time he continued to post to and from the country
as before.  Then he compromised the matter by taking a railway ticket for the long journey,
and posting only a stage or two nearest town; until, at length, he undisguisedly committed
himself, like other people, to the express train, and performed the journey throughout upon
what he had formerly denounced as “the infernal railroad.”

                [Picture: Coalville and Snibston Colliery]

                [Picture: Tapton House, near Chesterfield]

CHAPTER XV.

At a time when everybody else was sceptical as to the possibility of coals being carried from
the midland counties to London, and sold there at a price to compete with those which were
seaborne, he declared his firm conviction that the time was fast approaching when the London
market would be regularly supplied with north-country coals led by railway.  One of the greatest
advantages of railways, in his opinion was that they would bring iron and coal, the staple
products of the country, to the doors of all England.  “The strength of Britain,” he would
say, “lies in her iron and coal beds; and the locomotive is destined, above all other agencies,
to bring it forth.  The Lord Chancellor now sits upon a bag of wool; but wool has long ceased
to be emblematical of the staple commodity of England.  He ought rather to sit upon a bag of
coals, though it might not prove quite so comfortable a seat.  Then think of the Lord Chancellor
being addressed as the noble and learned lord on the coal-sack!  I am afraid it wouldn’t answer,
after all.”

To one gentleman he said: “We want from the coal-mining, the iron-producing and manufacturing
districts, a great railway for the carriage of these valuable products.  We want, if I may
so say, a stream of steam running directly through the country, from the North to London, and
from other similar districts to London.  Speed is not so much an object as utility and cheapness.
It will not do to mix up the heavy merchandise and coal trains with the passenger trains. 
Coal and most kinds of goods can wait; but passengers will not.  A less perfect road and less
expensive works will do well enough for coal trains, if run at a low speed; and if the line
be flat, it is not of much consequence whether it be direct or not.  Whenever you put passenger
trains on a line, all the other trains must be run at high speeds to keep out of their way.
But coal trains run at high speeds pull the road to pieces, besides causing large expenditure
in locomotive power; and I doubt very much whether they will pay after all; but a succession
of long coal trains, if run at from ten to fourteen miles an hour, would pay very well.  Thus
the Stockton and Darlington Company made a larger profit when running coal at low speeds at
a halfpenny a ton per mile, than they have been able to do since they put on their fast passenger
trains, when everything must needs be run faster, and a much larger proportion of the gross
receipts is absorbed by working expenses.”

In advocating these views, Mr. Stephenson was considerably ahead of his time; and although
he did not live to see his anticipations fully realised as to the supply of the London coal-market,
he was nevertheless the first to point out, and to some extent to prove, the practicability
of establishing a profitable coal trade by railway between the northern counties and the metropolis.
So long, however, as the traffic was conducted on main passenger lines at comparatively high
speeds, it was found that the expenditure on tear and wear of road and locomotive power,—not
to mention the increased risk of carrying on the first-class passenger traffic with which it
was mixed up,—necessarily left a very small margin of profit; and hence Mr. Stephenson was
in the habit of urging the propriety of constructing a railway which should be exclusively
devoted to goods and mineral traffic run at low speeds as the only condition on which a large
railway traffic of that sort could be profitably conducted.

Having induced some of his Liverpool friends to join him in a coal-mining adventure at Chesterfield,
a lease was taken of the Claycross estate, then for sale, and operations were shortly after
begun.  At a subsequent period Mr. Stephenson extended his coal-mining operations in the same
neighbourhood; and in 1841 he himself entered into a contract with owners of land in adjoining
townships for the working of the coal thereunder; and pits were opened on the Tapton estate
on an extensive scale.  About the same time he erected great lime-works, close to the Ambergate
station of the Midland Railway, from which, when in full operation he was able to turn out
upwards of 200 tons a day.  The limestone was brought on a tramway from the village of Crich,
2 or 3 miles distant, the coal being supplied from his adjoining Claycross colliery.  The works
were on a scale such as had not before been attempted by any private individual engaged in
a similar trade; and we believe they proved very successful.

                    [Picture: Lime Works at Ambergate]

Tapton House was included in the lease of one of the collieries, and as it was conveniently
situated—being, as it were, a central point on the Midland Railway, from which he could readily
proceed north or south, on his journeys of inspection of the various lines then under construction
in the midland and northern counties,—he took up his residence there, and it continued his
home until the close of his life.

Tapton House is a large roomy brick mansion, beautifully situated amidst woods, upon a commanding
eminence, about a mile to the north-east of the town of Chesterfield.  Green fields dotted
with fine trees slope away from the house in all directions.  The surrounding country is undulating
and highly picturesque.  North and south the eye ranges over a vast extent of lovely scenery;
and on the west, looking over the town of Chesterfield, with its church and crooked spire,
the extensive range of the Derbyshire hills bounds the distance.  The Midland Railway skirts
the western edge of the park in a deep rock cutting, and the shrill whistle of the locomotive
sounds near at hand as the trains speed past.  The gardens and pleasure-grounds adjoining the
house were in a very neglected state when Mr. Stephenson first went to Tapton; and he promised
himself, when he had secured rest and leisure from business, that he would put a new face upon
both.  The first improvement he made was cutting a woodland footpath up the hill-side, by which
he at the same time added a beautiful feature to the park, and secured a shorter road to the
Chesterfield station.  But it was some years before he found time to carry into effect his
contemplated improvements in the adjoining gardens and pleasure-grounds.  He had so long been
accustomed to laborious pursuits, and felt himself still so full of work, that he could not
at once settle down into the habit of quietly enjoying the fruits of his industry.

He had no difficulty in usefully employing his time.  Besides directing the mining operations
at Claycross, the establishment of the lime-kilns at Ambergate, and the construction of the
extensive railways still in progress, he occasionally paid visits to Newcastle, where his locomotive
manufactory was now in full work, and the proprietors were reaping the advantages of his early
foresight in an abundant measure of prosperity. One of his most interesting visits to the place
was in 1838, on the occasion of the meeting of the British Association there, when he acted
as one of the Vice-Presidents in the section of Mechanical Science. Extraordinary changes had
occurred in his own fortunes, as well as in the face of the country, since he had first appeared
before a scientific body in Newcastle—the members of the Literary and Philosophical Institute—to
submit his safety-lamp for their examination.  Twenty-three years had passed over his head,
full of honest work, of manful struggle; and the humble “colliery engine-wright of the name
of Stephenson” had achieved an almost worldwide reputation as a public benefactor.  His fellow-townsmen,
therefore, could not hesitate to recognise his merits and do honour to his name.  During the
sittings of the Association, Mr. Stephenson took the opportunity of paying a visit to Killingworth,
accompanied by some of the distinguished savans whom he numbered amongst his friends.  He there
pointed out to them, with a degree of honest pride, the cottage in which he had lived for so
many years, showed what parts of it had been his own handiwork, and told them the story of
the sun-dial over the door, describing the study and the labour it had cost him and his son
to calculate its dimensions, and fix it in its place.  The dial had been serenely numbering
the hours through the busy years that had elapsed since that humble dwelling had been his home;
during which the Killingworth locomotive had become a great working power, and its contriver
had established the railway system, which was now rapidly becoming extended in all parts of
the world.

About the same time, his services were very much in request at the meetings of Mechanics’ Institutes
held throughout the northern counties. From an early period in his history, he had taken an
active interest in these institutions.  While residing at Newcastle in 1824, shortly after
his locomotive foundry had been started in Forth-street, he presided at a public meeting held
in that town for the purpose of establishing a Mechanics’ Institute.  The meeting was held;
but as George Stephenson was a man comparatively unknown even in Newcastle at that time, his
name failed to secure “an influential attendance.”  Among those who addressed the meeting on
the occasion was Joseph Locke, then his pupil, and afterwards his rival as an engineer.  The
local papers scarcely noticed the proceedings; yet the Mechanics’ Institute was founded, and
struggled into existence.  Years passed, and it was now felt to be an honour to secure Mr.
Stephenson’s presence at any public meetings held for the promotion of popular education. 
Among the Mechanics’ Institutes in his immediate neighbourhood at Tapton, were those of Belper
and Chesterfield; and at their soirées he was a frequent and a welcome visitor.  On these occasions
he loved to tell his auditors of the difficulties which had early beset him through want of
knowledge, and of the means by which he had overcome them.  His grand text was—PERSEVERE; and
there was manhood in the very word.

On more than one occasion, the author had the pleasure of listening to George Stephenson’s
homely but forcible addresses at the annual soirées of the Leeds Mechanics’ Institute.  He
was always an immense favourite with his audiences there.  His personal appearance was greatly
in his favour.  A handsome, ruddy, expressive face, lit up by bright dark-blue eyes, prepared
one for his earnest words when he stood up to speak and the cheers had subsided which invariably
hailed his rising.  He was not glib, but he was very impressive.  And who, so well as he, could
serve as a guide to the working man in his endeavours after higher knowledge?  His early life
had been all struggle—encounter with difficulty—groping in the dark after greater light, but
always earnestly and perseveringly.  His words were therefore all the more weighty, since he
spoke from the fulness of his own experience.

Nor did he remain a mere inactive spectator of the improvements in railway working which increasing
experience from day to day suggested. He continued to contrive improvements in the locomotive,
and to mature his invention of the carriage-brake.  When examined before the Select Committee
on Railways in 1841, his mind seems principally to have been impressed with the necessity which
existed for adopting a system of self acting brakes; stating that, in his opinion, this was
the most important arrangement that could be provided for increasing the safety of railway
travelling.  “I believe,” he said, “that if self-acting brakes were put upon every carriage,
scarcely any accident could take place.”  His plan consisted in employing the momentum of the
running train to throw his proposed brakes into action, immediately on the moving power of
the engine being checked.  He would also have these brakes under the control of the guard,
by means of a connecting line running along the whole length of the train, by which they should
at once be thrown out of gear when necessary.  At the same time he suggested, as an additional
means of safety, that the signals of the line should be self-acting, and worked by the locomotives
as they passed along the railway.  He considered the adoption of this plan of so much importance,
that, with a view to the public safety, he would even have it enforced upon railway companies
by the legislature.  At the same time he was of opinion that it was the interest of the companies
themselves to adopt the plan, as it would save great tear and wear of engines, carriages, tenders,
and brake-vans, besides greatly diminishing the risk of accidents upon railways.

While before the same Committee, he took the opportunity of stating his views with reference
to railway speed, about which wild ideas were then afloat—one gentleman of celebrity having
publicly expressed the opinion that a speed of 100 miles an hour was practicable in railway
travelling! Not many years had passed since George Stephenson had been pronounced insane for
stating his conviction that 12 miles an hour could be performed by the locomotive; but now
that he had established the fact, and greatly exceeded that speed, he was thought behind the
age because he recommended the rate to be limited to 40 miles an hour.  He said: “I do not
like either 40 or 50 miles an hour upon any line—I think it is an unnecessary speed; and if
there is danger upon a railway, it is high velocity that creates it.  I should say no railway
ought to exceed 40 miles an hour on the most favourable gradient; but upon a curved line the
speed ought not to exceed 24 or 25 miles an hour.”  He had, indeed, constructed for the Great
Western Railway an engine capable of running 50 miles an hour with a load, and 80 miles without
one.  But he never was in favour of a hurricane speed of this sort, believing it could only
be accomplished at an unnecessary increase both of danger and expense.

“It is true,” he observed on other occasions, “I have said the locomotive engine might be made
to travel 100 miles an hour; but I always put a qualification on this, namely, as to what speed
would best suit the public.  The public may, however, be unreasonable; and 50 or 60 miles an
hour is an unreasonable speed.  Long before railway travelling became general, I said to my
friends that there was no limit to the speed of the locomotive, provided the works could be
made to stand.  But there are limits to the strength of iron, whether it be manufactured into
rails or locomotives; and there is a point at which both rails and tyres must break.  Every
increase of speed, by increasing the strain upon the road and the rolling stock, brings us
nearer to that point.  At 30 miles a slighter road will do, and less perfect rolling stock
may be run upon it with safety.  But if you increase the speed by say 10 miles, then everything
must be greatly strengthened.  You must have heavier engines, heavier and better-fastened rails,
and all your working expenses will be immediately increased.  I think I know enough of mechanics
to know where to stop.  I know that a pound will weigh a pound, and that no more should be
put upon an iron rail than it will bear.  If you could ensure perfect iron, perfect rails,
and perfect locomotives, I grant 50 miles an hour or more might be run with safety on a level
railway.  But then you must not forget that iron, even the best, will ‘tire,’ and with constant
use will become more and more liable to break at the weakest point—perhaps where there is a
secret flaw that the eye cannot detect.  Then look at the rubbishy rails now manufactured on
the contract system—some of them little better than cast metal: indeed, I have seen rails break
merely on being thrown from the truck on to the ground.  How is it possible for such rails
to stand a 20 or 30 ton engine dashing over them at the speed of 50 miles an hour?  No, no,”
he would conclude, “I am in favour of low speeds because they are safe, and because they are
economical; and you may rely upon it that, beyond a certain point, with every increase of speed
there is an increase in the element of danger.”

When railways became the subject of popular discussion, many new and unsound theories were
started with reference to them, which Stephenson opposed as calculated, in his opinion, to
bring discredit on the locomotive system.  One of these was with reference to what were called
“undulating lines.”  Among others, Dr. Lardner, who had originally been somewhat sceptical
about the powers of the locomotive, now promulgated the idea that a railway constructed with
rising and falling gradients would be practically as easy to work as a line perfectly level.
Mr. Badnell went even beyond him, for he held that an undulating railway was much better than
a level one for purposes of working.  For a time, this theory found favour, and the “undulating
system” was extensively adopted; but Mr. Stephenson never ceased to inveigh against it; and
experience has amply proved that his judgment was correct.  His practice, from the beginning
of his career until the end of it, was to secure a road as nearly as possible on a level, following
the course of the valleys and the natural line of the country: preferring to go round a hill
rather than to tunnel under it or carry his railway over it, and often making a considerable
circuit to secure good, workable gradients.  He studied to lay out his lines so that long trains
of minerals and merchandise, as well as passengers, might be hauled along them at the least
possible expenditure of locomotive power.  He had long before ascertained, by careful experiments
at Killingworth, that the engine expends half of its power in overcoming a rising gradient
of 1 in 260, which is about 20 feet in the mile; and that when the gradient is so steep as
1 in 100, not less than three-fourths of its power is sacrificed in ascending the acclivity.
He never forgot the valuable practical lesson taught him by the early trials which he had made
and registered long before the advantages of railways had been recognised.  He saw clearly
that the longer flat line must eventually prove superior to the shorter line of steep gradients
as respected its paying qualities.  He urged that, after all, the power of the locomotive was
but limited; and, although he and his son had done more than any other men to increase its
working capacity, it provoked him to find that every improvement made in it was neutralised
by the steep gradients which the new school of engineers were setting it to overcome. On one
occasion, when Robert Stephenson stated before a Parliamentary Committee that every successive
improvement in the locomotive was being rendered virtually nugatory by the difficult and almost
impracticable gradients proposed on many of the new lines, his father, on his leaving the witness-box,
went up to him, and said, “Robert, you never spoke truer words than those in all your life.”

To this it must be added, that in urging these views Mr. Stephenson was strongly influenced
by commercial considerations.  He had no desire to build up his reputation at the expense of
railway shareholders, nor to obtain engineering éclat by making “ducks and drakes” of their
money. He was persuaded that, in order to secure the practical success of railways, they must
be so laid out as not only to prove of decided public utility, but also to be worked economically
and to the advantage of their proprietors.  They were not government roads, but private ventures—in
fact, commercial speculations.  He therefore endeavoured to render them financially profitable;
and he repeatedly declared that if he did not believe they could be “made to pay,” he would
have nothing to do with them.  He was not influenced by the sordid consideration of what he
could make out of any company that employed him; indeed, in many cases he voluntarily gave
up his claim to remuneration where the promoters of schemes which he thought praiseworthy had
suffered serious loss.  Thus, when the first application was made to Parliament for the Chester
and Birkenhead Railway Bill, the promoters were defeated.  They repeated their application,
on the understanding that in event of their succeeding, the engineer and surveyor were to be
paid their costs in respect of the defeated measure.  The Bill was successful, and to several
parties their costs were paid.  Mr. Stephenson’s amounted to £800, and he very nobly said,
“You have had an expensive career in Parliament; you have had a great struggle; you are a young
Company; you cannot afford to pay me this amount of money.  I will reduce it to £200, and I
will not ask you for that £200 until your shares are at £20 premium: for whatever may be the
reverses you will go through, I am satisfied I shall live to see the day when your shares will
be at £20 premium, and when I can legally and honourably claim that £200.”  We may add that
the shares did eventually rise to the premium specified, and the engineer was no loser by his
generous conduct in the transaction.

Another novelty of the time, with which George Stephenson had to contend, was the substitution
of atmospheric pressure for locomotive steam-power in the working of railways.  The idea of
obtaining motion by means of atmospheric pressure is said to have originated with Denis Papin,
more than 150 years ago; but it slept until revived in 1810 by Mr. Medhurst, who published
a pamphlet to prove the practicability of carrying letters and goods by air.  In 1824, Mr.
Vallance of Brighton took out a patent for projecting passengers through a tube large enough
to contain a train of carriages; the tube being previously exhausted of its atmospheric air.
The same idea was afterwards taken up, in 1835, by Mr. Pinkus, an ingenious American.  Scientific
gentlemen, Dr. Lardner and Mr. Clegg amongst others, advocated the plan; and an association
was formed to carry it into effect.  Shares were created, and £18,000 raised: and a model apparatus
was exhibited in London.  Mr. Vignolles took his friend Stephenson to see the model; and after
carefully examining it, he observed emphatically, “It won’t do: it is only the fixed engines
and ropes over again, in another form; and, to tell you the truth, I don’t think this rope
of wind will answer so well as the rope of wire did.”  He did not think the principle would
stand the test of practice, and he objected to the mode of applying the principle.  After all,
it was only a modification of the stationary-engine plan; and every day’s experience was proving
that fixed engines could not compete with locomotives in point of efficiency and economy. 
He stood by the locomotive engine; and subsequent experience proved that he was right.

Messrs. Clegg and Samuda afterwards, in 1840, patented their plan of an atmospheric railway;
and they publicly tested its working on an unfinished portion of the West London Railway. 
The results of the experiment were so satisfactory, that the directors of the Dublin and Kingstown
line adopted it between Kingstown and Dalkey.  The London and Croydon Company also adopted
the atmospheric principle; and their line was opened in 1845.  The ordinary mode of applying
the power was to lay between the line of rails a pipe, in which a large piston was inserted,
and attached by a shaft to the framework of a carriage.  The propelling power was the ordinary
pressure of the atmosphere acting against the piston in the tube on one side, a vacuum being
created in the tube on the other side of the piston by the working of a stationary engine.
Great was the popularity of the atmospheric system; and still George Stephenson said “It won’t
do: it’s but a gimcrack.”  Engineers of distinction said he was prejudiced, and that he looked
upon the locomotive as a pet child of his own.  “Wait a little,” he replied, “and you will
see that I am right.”  It was generally supposed that the locomotive system was about to be
snuffed out.  “Not so fast,” said Stephenson.  “Let us wait to see if it will pay.”  He never
believed it would.  It was ingenious, clever, scientific, and all that; but railways were commercial
enterprises, not toys; and if the atmospheric railway could not work to a profit, it would
not do.  Considered in this light, he even went so far as to call it “a great humbug.”  “Nothing
will beat the locomotive,” said he, “for efficiency in all weathers, for economy in drawing
loads of average weight, and for power and speed as occasion may require.”

The atmospheric system was fairly and fully tried, and it was found wanting.  It was admitted
to be an exceedingly elegant mode of applying power; its devices were very skilful, and its
mechanism was most ingenious.  But it was costly, irregular in action, and, in particular kinds
of weather, not to be depended upon.  At best, it was but a modification of the stationary-engine
system, and experience proved it to be so expensive that it was shortly after entirely abandoned
in favour of locomotive power. {288}

One of the remarkable results of the system of railway locomotion which George Stephenson had
by his persevering labours mainly contributed to establish, was the outbreak of the railway
mania towards the close of his professional career.  The success of the first main lines of
railway naturally led to their extension into many new districts; but a strongly speculative
tendency soon began to display itself, which contained in it the elements of great danger.

The extension of railways had, up to the year 1844, been mainly effected by men of the commercial
classes, and the shareholders in them principally belonged to the manufacturing districts,—the
capitalists of the metropolis as yet holding aloof, and prophesying disaster to all concerned
in railway projects.  But when the lugubrious anticipations of the City men were found to be
so entirely falsified by the results—when, after the lapse of years, it was ascertained that
railway traffic rapidly increased and dividends steadily improved—a change came over the spirit
of the London capitalists.  They then invested largely in railways, the shares in which became
a leading branch of business on the Stock Exchange, and the prices of some rose to nearly double
their original value.

A stimulus was thus given to the projection of further lines, the shares in most of which came
out at a premium, and became the subject of immediate traffic.  A reckless spirit of gambling
set in, which completely changed the character and objects of railway enterprise.  The public
outside the Stock Exchange became also infected, and many persons utterly ignorant of railways,
knowing and caring nothing about their national uses, but hungering and thirsting after premiums,
rushed eagerly into the vortex.  They applied for allotments, and subscribed for shares in
lines, of the engineering character or probable traffic of which they knew nothing.  Provided
they could but obtain allotments which they could sell at a premium, and put the profit—in
many cases the only capital they possessed {289}—into their pocket, it was enough for them.
The mania was not confined to the precincts of the Stock Exchange, but infected all ranks.
It embraced merchants and manufacturers, gentry and shopkeepers, clerks in public offices,
and loungers at the clubs.  Noble lords were pointed at as “stags;” there were even clergymen
who were characterised as “bulls;” and amiable ladies who had the reputation of “bears,” in
the share markets.  The few quiet men who remained uninfluenced by the speculation of the time
were, in not a few cases, even reproached for doing injustice to their families, in declining
to help themselves from the stores of wealth that were poured out on all sides.

Folly and knavery were, for a time, completely in the ascendant.  The sharpers of society were
let loose, and jobbers and schemers became more and more plentiful.  They threw out railway
schemes as lures to catch the unwary.  They fed the mania with a constant succession of new
projects. The railway papers became loaded with their advertisements.  The post-office was
scarcely able to distribute the multitude of prospectuses and circulars which they issued.
For a time their popularity was immense.  They rose like froth into the upper heights of society,
and the flunkey FitzPlushe, by virtue of his supposed wealth, sat amongst peers and was idolised.
Then was the harvest-time of scheming lawyers, parliamentary agents, engineers, surveyors,
and traffic-takers, who were ready to take up any railway scheme however desperate, and to
prove any amount of traffic even where none existed.  The traffic in the credulity of their
dupes was, however, the great fact that mainly concerned them, and of the profitable character
of which there could be no doubt.

Mr. Stephenson was anxiously entreated to lend his name to prospectuses during the railway
mania; but he invariably refused.  He held aloof from the headlong folly of the hour, and endeavoured
to check it, but in vain. Had he been less scrupulous, and given his countenance to the numerous
projects about which he was consulted, he might, without any trouble, have thus secured enormous
gains; but he had no desire to accumulate a fortune without labour and without honour.  He
himself never speculated in shares.  When he was satisfied as to the merits of any undertaking,
he subscribed for a certain amount of capital in it, and held on, neither buying nor selling.
At a dinner of the Leeds and Bradford directors at Ben Rydding in October, 1844, before the
mania had reached its height, he warned those present against the prevalent disposition towards
railway speculation.  It was, he said, like walking upon a piece of ice with shallows and deeps;
the shallows were frozen over, and they would carry, but it required great caution to get over
the deeps.  He was satisfied that in the course of the next year many would step on to places
not strong enough to carry them, and would get into the deeps; they would be taking shares,
and afterwards be unable to pay the calls upon them. Yorkshiremen were reckoned clever men,
and his advice to them was, to stick together and promote communication in their own neighbourhood,—not
to go abroad with their speculations.  If any had done so, he advised them to get their money
back as fast as they could, for if they did not they would not get it at all.  He informed
the company, at the same time, of his earliest holding of railway shares; it was in the Stockton
and Darlington Railway, and the number he held was three—“a very large capital for him to possess
at the time.”  But a Stockton friend was anxious to possess a share, and he sold him one at
a premium of 33s.; he supposed he had been about the first man in England to sell a railway
share at a premium.

During 1845, his son’s offices in Great George-street, Westminster, were crowded with persons
of various conditions seeking interviews, presenting very much the appearance of the levee
of a minister of state.  The burly figure of Mr. Hudson, the “Railway King,” surrounded by
an admiring group of followers, was often to be seen there; and a still more interesting person,
in the estimation of many, was George Stephenson, dressed in black, his coat of somewhat old-fashioned
cut, with square pockets in the tails.  He wore a white neckcloth, and a large bunch of seals
was suspended from his watch-ribbon.  Altogether, he presented an appearance of health, intelligence,
and good humour, that rejoiced one to look upon in that sordid, selfish and eventually ruinous
saturnalia of railway speculation.

Powers were granted by Parliament, in 1843, to construct not less than 2883 miles of new railways
in Britain, at an expenditure of about forty-four millions sterling!  Yet the mania was not
appeased; for in the following session of 1846, applications were made to Parliament for powers
to raise £389,000,000 sterling for the construction of further lines; and powers were actually
conceded for forming 4790 miles (including 60 miles of tunnels), at a cost of about £120,000,000
sterling.  During this session, Mr. Stephenson appeared as engineer for only one new line,—the
Buxton, Macclesfield, Congleton, and Crewe Railway—a line in which, as a coal-owner, he was
personally interested;—and of three branch-lines in connexion with existing companies for which
he had long acted as engineer.  At the same time, all the leading professional men were fully
occupied, some of them appearing as consulting engineers for upwards of thirty lines each!

One of the features of the mania was the rage for “direct lines” which everywhere displayed
itself.  There were “Direct Manchester,” “Direct Exeter,” “Direct York,” and, indeed, new direct
lines between most of the large towns.  The Marquis of Bristol, speaking in favour of the “Direct
Norwich and London” project, at a public meeting at Haverhill, said, “If necessary, they might
make a tunnel beneath his very drawing-room, rather than be defeated in their undertaking!”
And the Rev. F. Litchfield, at a meeting in Banbury, on the subject of a line to that town,
said “He had laid down for himself a limit to his approbation of railways,—at least of such
as approached the neighbourhood with which he was connected,—and that limit was, that he did
not wish them to approach any nearer to him than to run through his bedroom, with the bedposts
for a station!”  How different was the spirit which influenced these noble lords and gentlemen
but a few years before!

The House of Commons became thoroughly influenced by the prevailing excitement.  Even the Board
of Trade began to favour the views of the fast school of engineers.  In their “Report on the
Lines projected in the Manchester and Leeds District,” they promulgated some remarkable views
respecting gradients, declaring themselves in favour of the “undulating system.”  They there
stated that lines of an undulating character “which have gradients of 1 in 70 or in 80 distributed
over them in short lengths, may be positively better lines, i.e., more susceptible of cheap
and expeditious working, than others which have nothing steeper than 1 in 100 or 1 in 120!”
They concluded by reporting in favour of the line which exhibited the worst gradients and the
sharpest curves, chiefly on the ground that it could be constructed for less money.

Sir Robert Peel took occasion to advert to this Report in the House of Commons on the 4th of
March following, as containing “a novel and highly important view on the subject of gradients,
which, he was certain, never could have been taken by any Committee of the House of Commons,
however intelligent;” and he might have added, that the more intelligent, the less likely they
were to arrive at any such conclusion.  When Mr. Stephenson saw this report of the Premier’s
speech in the newspapers of the following morning, he went forthwith to his son, and asked
him to write a letter to Sir Robert Peel on the subject.  He saw clearly that if these views
were adopted, the utility and economy of railways would be seriously curtailed.  “These members
of Parliament,” said he, “are now as much disposed to exaggerate the powers of the locomotive,
as they were to under-estimate them but a few years ago.”  Robert accordingly wrote a letter
for his father’s signature, embodying the views which he so strongly entertained as to the
importance of flat gradients, and referring to the experiments conducted by him many years
before, in proof of the great loss of working power which was incurred on a line of steep as
compared with easy gradients.  It was clear, from the tone of Sir Robert Peel’s speech in a
subsequent debate, that he had carefully read and considered Mr. Stephenson’s practical observations
on the subject; though it did not appear that he had come to any definite conclusion thereon,
further than that he strongly approved of the Trent Valley Railway, by which Tamworth would
be placed upon a direct main line of communication.

The result of the labours of Parliament was a tissue of legislative bungling, involving enormous
loss to the public.  Railway Bills were granted in heaps.  Two hundred and seventy-two additional
Acts were passed in 1846.  Some authorised the construction of lines running almost parallel
to existing railways, in order to afford the public “the benefits of unrestricted competition.”
Locomotive and atmospheric lines, broad-gauge and narrow-gauge lines, were granted without
hesitation. Committees decided without judgment and without discrimination; it was a scramble
for Bills, in which the most unscrupulous were the most successful.

Amongst the many ill effects of the mania, one of the worst was that it introduced a low tone
of morality into railway transactions.  The bad spirit which had been evoked by it unhappily
extended to the commercial classes, and many of the most flagrant swindles of recent times
had their origin in the year 1845.  Those who had suddenly gained large sums without labour,
and also without honour, were too ready to enter upon courses of the wildest extravagance;
and a false style of living shortly arose, the poisonous influence of which extended through
all classes. Men began to look upon railways as instruments to job with.  Persons, sometimes
possessing information respecting railways, but more frequently possessing none, got upon boards
for the purpose of promoting their individual objects, often in a very unscrupulous manner;
landowners, to promote branch lines through their property; speculators in shares, to trade
upon the exclusive information which they obtained; whilst some directors were appointed through
the influence mainly of solicitors, contractors, or engineers, who used them as tools to serve
their own ends.  In this way the unfortunate proprietors were, in many cases, betrayed, and
their property was shamefully squandered, much to the discredit of the railway system.

While the mania was at its height in England, railways were also being extended abroad, and
George Stephenson was requested on several occasions to give the benefit of his advice to the
directors of foreign undertakings.  One of the most agreeable of these excursions was to Belgium
in 1845.  His special object was to examine the proposed line of the Sambre and Meuse Railway,
for which a concession had been granted by the Belgian legislature.  Arrived on the ground,
he went carefully over the entire length of the proposed line, to Convins, the Forest of Ardennes,
and Rocroi, across the French frontier; examining the bearings of the coal-field, the slate
and marble quarries, and the numerous iron-mines in existence between the Sambre and the Meuse,
as well as carefully exploring the ravines which extended through the district, in order to
satisfy himself that the best possible route had been selected. Mr. Stephenson was delighted
with the novelty of the journey, the beauty of the scenery, and the industry of the population.
His companions were entertained by his ample and varied stores of practical information on
all subjects, and his conversation was full of reminiscences of his youth, on which he always
delighted to dwell when in the society of his more intimate friends.  The journey was varied
by a visit to the coal-mines near Jemappe, where Stephenson examined with interest the mode
adopted by the Belgian miners of draining the pits, inspecting their engines and brakeing machines,
so familiar to him in early life.

The engineers of Belgium took the opportunity of Mr. Stephenson’s visit to their country to
invite him to a magnificent banquet at Brussels.  The Public Hall, in which they entertained
him, was gaily decorated with flags, prominent amongst which was the Union Jack, in honour
of their distinguished guest.  A handsome marble pedestal, ornamented with his bust crowned
with laurels, occupied one end of the room.  The chair was occupied by M. Massui, the Chief
Director of the National Railways of Belgium; and the most eminent scientific men of the kingdom
were present. Their reception of “the Father of railways” was of the most enthusiastic description.
Mr. Stephenson was greatly pleased with the entertainment. Not the least interesting incident
of the evening was his observing, when the dinner was about half over, a model of a locomotive
engine placed upon the centre table, under a triumphal arch.  Turning suddenly to his friend
Sopwith, he exclaimed, “Do you see the ‘Rocket’?”  The compliment thus paid him, was perhaps
more prized than all the encomiums of the evening.

The next day (April 5th) King Leopold invited him to a private interview at the palace.  Accompanied
by Mr. Sopwith, he proceeded to Laaken, and was very cordially received by His Majesty.  The
king immediately entered into familiar conversation with him, discussing the railway project
which had been the object of his visit to Belgium, and then the structure of the Belgian coal-fields,—his
Majesty expressing his sense of the great importance of economy in a fuel which had become
indispensable to the comfort and well-being of society, which was the basis of all manufactures,
and the vital power of railway locomotion.  The subject was always a favourite one with Mr.
Stephenson, and, encouraged by the king, he proceeded to describe to him the geological structure
of Belgium, the original formation of coal, its subsequent elevation by volcanic forces, and
the vast amount of denudation.  In describing the coal-beds he used his hat as a sort of model
to illustrate his meaning; and the eyes of the king were fixed upon it as he proceeded with
his interesting description. The conversation then passed to the rise and progress of trade
and manufactures,—Mr. Stephenson pointing out how closely they everywhere followed the coal,
being mainly dependent upon it, as it were, for their very existence.

The king seemed greatly pleased with the interview, and at its close expressed himself obliged
by the interesting information which the engineer had communicated.  Shaking hands cordially
with both the gentlemen, and wishing them success in their important undertakings, he bade
them adieu.  As they were leaving the palace Mr. Stephenson, bethinking him of the model by
which he had just been illustrating the Belgian coal-fields, said to his friend, “By the bye,
Sopwith, I was afraid the king would see the inside of my hat; it’s a shocking bad one!” Little
could George Stephenson, when brakesman at a coal-pit, have dreamt that, in the course of his
life, he should be admitted to an interview with a monarch, and describe to him the manner
in which the geological foundations of his kingdom had been laid!

Mr. Stephenson paid a second visit to Belgium in the course of the same year, on the business
of the West Flanders Railway; and he had scarcely returned from it ere he made arrangements
to proceed to Spain, for the purpose of examining and reporting upon a scheme then on foot
for constructing “the Royal North of Spain Railway.”  A concession had been made by the Spanish
Government of a line of railway from Madrid to the Bay of Biscay, and a numerous staff of engineers
was engaged in surveying it.  The directors of the Company had declined making the necessary
deposits until more favourable terms had been secured; and Sir Joshua Walmsley, on their part,
was about to visit Spain and press the Government on the subject.  Mr. Stephenson, whom he
consulted, was alive to the difficulties of the office which Sir Joshua was induced to undertake,
and offered to be his companion and adviser on the occasion,—declining to receive any recompense
beyond the simple expenses of the journey.  He could only arrange to be absent for six weeks,
and set out from England about the middle of September, 1845.

The party was joined at Paris by Mr. Mackenzie, the contractor for the Orleans and Tours Railway,
then in course of construction, who took them over the works, and accompanied them as far as
Tours.  They soon reached the great chain of the Pyrenees, and crossed over into Spain.  It
was on a Sunday evening, after a long day’s toilsome journey through the mountains, that the
party suddenly found themselves in one of those beautiful secluded valleys lying amidst the
Western Pyrenees.  A small hamlet lay before them, consisting of some thirty or forty houses
and a fine old church.  The sun was low on the horizon, and, under the wide porch, beneath
the shadow of the church, were seated nearly all the inhabitants of the place.  They were dressed
in their holiday attire. The bright bits of red and amber colour in the dresses of the women,
and the gay sashes of the men, formed a striking picture, on which the travellers gazed in
silent admiration.  It was something entirely novel and unexpected.  Beside the villagers sat
two venerable old men, whose canonical hats indicated their quality as village pastors.  Two
groups of young women and children were dancing outside the porch to the accompaniment of a
simple pipe; and within a hundred yards of them, some of the youths of the village were disporting
themselves in athletic exercises; the whole being carried on beneath the fostering care of
the old church, and with the sanction of its ministers.  It was a beautiful scene, and deeply
moved the travellers as they approached the principal group.  The villagers greeted them courteously,
supplied their present wants, and pressed upon them some fine melons, brought from their adjoining
gardens.  Mr. Stephenson used afterwards to look back upon that simple scene, and speak of
it as one of the most charming pastorals he had ever witnessed.

They shortly reached the site of the proposed railway, passing through Irun, St. Sebastian,
St. Andero, and Bilbao, at which places they met deputations of the principal inhabitants who
were interested in the subject of their journey.  At Raynosa Stephenson carefully examined
the mountain passes and ravines through which a railway could be made.  He rose at break of
day, and surveyed until the darkness set in; and frequently his resting-place at night was
the floor of some miserable hovel.  He was thus laboriously occupied for ten days, after which
he proceeded across the province of Old Castile towards Madrid, surveying as he went.  The
proposed plan included the purchase of the Castile Canal; and that property was also surveyed.
He next proceeded to El Escorial, situated at the foot of the Guadarama mountains, through
which he found that it would be necessary to construct two formidable tunnels; added to which
he ascertained that the country between El Escorial and Madrid was of a very difficult and
expensive character to work through.  Taking these circumstances into account, and looking
at the expected traffic on the proposed line, Sir Joshua Walmsley, acting under the advice
of Mr. Stephenson, offered to construct the line from Madrid to the Bay of Biscay, only on
condition that the requisite land was given the Company for the purpose; that they should be
allowed every facility for cutting such timber belonging the Crown as might be required for
the purposes of the railway; and also that the materials required from abroad for the construction
of the line should be admitted free of duty.  In return for these concessions the Company offered
to clothe and feed several thousands of convicts while engaged in the execution of the earthworks.
General Narvaez, afterwards Duke of Valencia, received Sir Joshua Walmsley and Mr. Stephenson
on the subject of their proposition, and expressed his willingness to close with them; but
it was necessary that other influential parties should give their concurrence before the scheme
could be carried into effect.  The deputation waited ten days to receive the answer of the
Spanish Government; but no answer of any kind was vouchsafed.  The authorities, indeed, invited
them to be present at a Spanish bullfight, but that was not quite the business Mr. Stephenson
had gone all the way to Spain to transact; and the offer was politely declined.  The result
was, that Mr. Stephenson dissuaded his friend from making the necessary deposit at Madrid.
Besides, he had by this time formed an unfavourable opinion of the entire project, and considered
that the traffic would not amount to one-eighth of the estimate.

Mr. Stephenson was now anxious to be in England.  During the journey from Madrid he often spoke
with affection of friends and relatives; and when apparently absorbed by other matters, he
would revert to what he thought might then be passing at home.  Few incidents worthy of notice
occurred on the journey homeward, but one may be mentioned.  While travelling in an open conveyance
between Madrid and Vittoria, the driver urged his mules down hill at a dangerous pace.  He
was requested to slacken speed; but suspecting his passengers to be afraid, he only flogged
the brutes into a still more furious gallop.  Observing this, Mr. Stephenson coolly said, “Let
us try him on the other tack; tell him to show us the fastest pace at which Spanish mules can
go.”  The rogue of a driver, when he found his tricks of no avail, pulled up and proceeded
at a more moderate speed for the rest of the journey.

Urgent business required Mr. Stephenson’s presence in London on the last day of November. 
They travelled therefore almost continuously, day and night; and the fatigue consequent on
the journey, added to the privations voluntarily endured by the engineer while carrying on
the survey among the Spanish mountains, began to tell seriously on his health.  By the time
he reached Paris he was evidently ill, but he nevertheless determined on proceeding.  He reached
Havre in time for the Southampton boat; but when on board, pleurisy developed itself, and it
was necessary to bleed him freely.  During the voyage, he spent his time chiefly in dictating
letters and reports to Sir Joshua Walmsley, who never left him, and whose kindness on the occasion
he gratefully remembered.  His friend was struck by the clearness of his dictated composition,
which exhibited a vigour and condensation which to him seemed marvellous.  After a few weeks’
rest at home, Mr. Stephenson gradually recovered, though his health remained severely shaken.

The career of George Stephenson was drawing to a close.  He had for some time been gradually
retiring from the more active pursuit of railway engineering, and confining himself to the
promotion of only a few undertakings in which he took a more than ordinary personal interest.
In 1840, when the extensive main lines in the Midland districts had been finished and opened
for traffic, he publicly expressed his intention of withdrawing from the profession.  He had
reached sixty, and, having spent the greater part of his life in very hard work, he naturally
desired rest and retirement in his old age.  There was the less necessity for his continuing
“in harness,” as Robert Stephenson was now in full career as a leading railway engineer, and
his father had pleasure in handing over to him, with the sanction of the companies concerned,
nearly all the railway appointments which he held.

Robert Stephenson amply repaid his father’s care.  The sound education of which he had laid
the foundations at school, improved by his subsequent culture, but more than all by his father’s
example of application, industry, and thoroughness in all that he undertook, told powerfully
in the formation of his character, not less than in the discipline of his intellect.  His father
had early implanted in him habits of mental activity, familiarized him with the laws of mechanics,
and carefully trained and stimulated his inventive faculties, the first great fruits of which,
as we have seen, were exhibited in the triumph of the “Rocket” at Rainhill.  “I am fully conscious
in my own mind,” said the son at a meeting of the Mechanical Engineers at Newcastle, in 1858,
“how greatly my civil engineering has been regulated and influenced by the mechanical knowledge
which I derived directly from my father; and the more my experience has advanced, the more
convinced I have become that it is necessary to educate an engineer in the workshop.  That
is, emphatically, the education which will render the engineer most intelligent, most useful,
and the fullest of resources in times of difficulty.”

Robert Stephenson was but twenty-six years old when the performances of the “Rocket” established
the practicability of steam locomotion on railways.  He was shortly after appointed engineer
of the Leicester and Swannington Railway; after which, at his father’s request, he was made
joint engineer with himself in laying out the London and Birmingham Railway, and the execution
of that line was afterwards entrusted to him as sole engineer.  The stability and excellence
of the works of that railway, the difficulties which had been successfully overcome in the
course of its construction, and the judgment which was displayed by Robert Stephenson throughout
the whole conduct of the undertaking to its completion, established his reputation as an engineer;
and his father could now look with confidence and with pride upon his son’s achievements. 
From that time forward, father and son worked together as one man, each jealous of the other’s
honour; and on the father’s retirement, it was generally recognized that, in the sphere of
railways, Robert Stephenson was the foremost man, the safest guide, and the most active worker.

Robert Stephenson was subsequently appointed engineer of the Eastern Counties, the Northern
and Eastern, and the Blackwall railways, besides many lines in the midland and southern districts.
When the speculation of 1844 set in, his services were, of course, greatly in request.  Thus,
in one session, we find him engaged as engineer for not fewer than 33 new schemes.  Projectors
thought themselves fortunate who could secure his name, and he had only to propose his terms
to obtain them.  The work which he performed at this period of his life was indeed enormous,
and his income was large beyond any previous instance of engineering gain. But much of his
labour was heavy hackwork of a very uninteresting character.  During the sittings of the committees
of Parliament, almost every moment of his time was occupied in consultations, and in preparing
evidence or in giving it.  The crowded, low-roofed committee-rooms of the old Houses of Parliament
were altogether inadequate to accommodate the rush of perspiring projectors of bills, and even
the lobbies were sometimes choked with them.  To have borne that noisome atmosphere and heat
would have tested the constitutions of salamanders, and engineers were only human.  With brains
kept in a state of excitement during the entire day, no wonder their nervous systems became
unstrung.  Their only chance of refreshment was during an occasional rush to the bun and sandwich
stand in the lobby, though sometimes even that resource failed them.  Then, with mind and body
jaded—probably after undergoing a series of consultations upon many bills after the rising
of the committees—the exhausted engineers would seek to stimulate nature by a late, perhaps
a heavy, dinner.  What chance had any ordinary constitution of surviving such an ordeal?  The
consequence was, that stomach, brain, and liver were alike irretrievably injured; and hence
the men who bore the brunt of those struggles—Stephenson, Brunel, Locke, and Errington—have
already all died, comparatively young men.

In mentioning the name of Brunel, we are reminded of him as the principal rival and competitor
of Robert Stephenson.  Both were the sons of distinguished men, and both inherited the fame
and followed in the footsteps of their fathers.  The Stephensons were inventive, practical,
and sagacious; the Brunels ingenious, imaginative, and daring.  The former were as thoroughly
English in their characteristics as the latter were perhaps as thoroughly French.  The fathers
and the sons were alike successful in their works, though not in the same degree.  Measured
by practical and profitable results, the Stephensons were unquestionably the safer men to follow.

Robert Stephenson and Isambard Kingdom Brunel were destined often to come into collision in
the course of their professional life.  Their respective railway districts “marched” with each
other, and it became their business to invade or defend those districts, according as the policy
of their respective boards might direct.  The gauge of 7 feet fixed by Mr. Brunel for the Great
Western Railway, so entirely different from that of 4ft. 8½in. adopted by the Stephensons on
the Northern and Midland lines, was from the first a great cause of contention.  But Mr. Brunel
had always an aversion to follow any man’s lead; and that another engineer had fixed the gauge
of a railway, or built a bridge, or designed an engine, in one way, was of itself often a sufficient
reason with him for adopting an altogether different course.  Robert Stephenson, on his part,
though less bold, was more practical, preferring to follow the old routes, and to tread in
the safe steps of his father.

Mr. Brunel, however, determined that the Great Western should be a giant’s road, and that travelling
should be conducted upon it at double speed.  His ambition was to make the best road that imagination
could devise; whereas the main object of the Stephensons, both father and son, was to make
a road that would pay.  Although, tried by the Stephenson test, Brunel’s magnificent road was
a failure so far as the shareholders in the Great Western Company were concerned, the stimulus
which his ambitious designs gave to mechanical invention at the time proved a general good.
The narrow-gauge engineers exerted themselves to quicken their locomotives to the utmost. 
They improved and re-improved them; the machinery was simplified and perfected; outside cylinders
gave place to inside; the steadier and more rapid and effective action of the engine was secured;
and in a few years the highest speed on the narrow-gauge lines went up from 30 to about 50
miles an hour.  For this rapidity of progress we are in no small degree indebted to the stimulus
imparted to the narrow-gauge engineers by Mr. Brunel.  And it is well for a country that it
should possess men such as he, ready to dare the untried, and to venture boldly into new paths.
Individuals may suffer from the cost of the experiments; but the nation, which is an aggregate
of individuals, gains, and so does the world at large.

It was one of the characteristics of Brunel to believe in the success of the schemes for which
he was professionally engaged as engineer; and he proved this by investing his savings largely
in the Great Western Railway, in the South Devon atmospheric line, and in the Great Eastern
steamship, with what results are well known.  Robert Stephenson, on the contrary, with characteristic
caution, towards the latter years of his life avoided holding unguaranteed railway shares;
and though he might execute magnificent structures, such as the Victoria Bridge across the
St. Lawrence, he was careful not to embark any portion of his own fortune in the ordinary capital
of these concerns.  In 1845, he shrewdly foresaw the inevitable crash that was about to follow
the mania of that year; and while shares were still at a premium he took the opportunity of
selling out all that he had.  He urged his father to do the same thing, but George’s reply
was characteristic.  “No,” said he; “I took my shares for an investment, and not to speculate
with, and I am not going to sell them now because folks have gone mad about railways.”  The
consequence was, that he continued to hold the £60,000 which he had invested in the shares
of various railways until his death, when they were at once sold out by his son, though at
a great depreciation on their original cost.

One of the hardest battles fought between the Stephensons and Brunel was for the railway between
Newcastle and Berwick, forming part of the great East Coast route to Scotland.  As early as
1836, George Stephenson had surveyed two lines to connect Edinburgh with Newcastle: one by
Berwick and Dunbar along the coast, and the other, more inland, by Carter Fell, up the vale
of the Gala, to the northern capital; but both projects lay dormant for several years longer,
until the completion of the Midland and other main lines as far north as Newcastle, had the
effect of again reviving the subject of the extension of the route as far as Edinburgh.

On the 18th of June, 1844, the Newcastle and Darlington line—an important link of the great
main highway to the north—was completed and publicly opened, thus connecting the Thames and
the Tyne by a continuous line of railway.  On that day the Stephensons, with a distinguished
party of railway men, travelled by express train from London to Newcastle in about nine hours.
It was a great event, and was worthily celebrated.  The population of Newcastle held holiday;
and a banquet given in the Assembly Rooms the same evening assumed the form of an ovation to
George Stephenson and his son.  Thirty years before, in the capacity of a workman, he had been
labouring at the construction of his first locomotive in the immediate neighbourhood.  By slow
and laborious steps he had worked his way on, dragging the locomotive into notice, and raising
himself in public estimation; until at length he had victoriously established the railway system,
and went back amongst his townsmen to receive their greeting.

After the opening of this railway, the project of the East Coast line from Newcastle to Berwick
was revived; and George Stephenson, who had already identified himself with the question, and
was intimately acquainted with every foot of the ground, was called upon to assist the promoters
with his judgment and experience.  He again recommended as strongly as before the line he had
previously surveyed; and on its being adopted by the local committee, the necessary steps were
taken to have the scheme brought before Parliament in the ensuing session.  The East Coast
line was not, however, to be allowed to pass without a fight.  On the contrary, it had to encounter
as stout an opposition as the Stephensons had ever experienced.

We have already stated that about this time the plan of substituting atmospheric pressure for
locomotive steam-power in the working of railways, had become very popular.  Many eminent engineers
supported the atmospheric system, and a strong party in Parliament, headed by the Prime Minister,
were greatly disposed in its favour.  Mr. Brunel warmly espoused the atmospheric principle,
and his persuasive manner, as well as his admitted scientific ability, unquestionably exercised
considerable influence in determining the views of many leading members of both Houses.  Amongst
others, Lord Howick, one of the members for Northumberland, adopted the new principle, and,
possessing great local influence, he succeeded in forming a powerful confederacy of the landed
gentry in favour of Brunel’s atmospheric railway through that county.

George Stephenson could not brook the idea of seeing the locomotive, for which he had fought
so many stout battles, pushed to one side, and that in the very county in which its great powers
had been first developed. Nor did he relish the appearance of Mr. Brunel as the engineer of
Lord Howick’s scheme, in opposition to the line which had occupied his thoughts and been the
object of his strenuous advocacy for so many years. When Stephenson first met Brunel in Newcastle,
he good-naturedly shook him by the collar, and asked “What business he had north of the Tyne?”
George gave him to understand that they were to have a fair stand-up fight for the ground,
and, shaking hands before the battle like Englishmen, they parted in good humour.  A public
meeting was held at Newcastle in the following December, when, after a full discussion of the
merits of the respective plans, Stephenson’s line was almost unanimously adopted as the best.

The rival projects went before Parliament in 1845, and a severe contest ensued.  The display
of ability and tactics on both sides was great. Robert Stephenson was examined at great length
as to the merits of the locomotive line, and Brunel at equally great length as to the merits
of the atmospheric system.  Mr. Brunel, in his evidence, said that after numerous experiments,
he had arrived at the conclusion that the mechanical contrivance of the atmospheric system
was perfectly applicable, and he believed that it would likewise be more economical in most
cases than locomotive power.  “In short,” said he, “rapidity, comfort, safety, and economy,
are its chief recommendations.”

But the locomotive again triumphed.  The Stephenson Coast Line secured the approval of Parliament;
and the shareholders in the Atmospheric Company were happily prevented investing their capital
in what would unquestionably have proved a gigantic blunder.  For, less than three years later,
the whole of the atmospheric tubes which had been laid down on other lines were pulled up and
the materials sold—including Mr. Brunel’s immense tube on the South Devon Railway—to make way
for the working of the locomotive engine.  George Stephenson’s first verdict of “It won’t do,”
was thus conclusively confirmed.

Robert Stephenson used afterwards to describe with great gusto an interview which took place
between Lord Howick and his father, at his office in Great George Street, during the progress
of the bill in Parliament.  His father was in the outer office, where he used to spend a good
deal of his spare time; occasionally taking a quiet wrestle with a friend when nothing else
was stirring. {309}  On the day in question, George was standing with his back to the fire,
when Lord Howick called to see Robert.  Oh! thought George, he has come to try and talk Robert
over about that atmospheric gimcrack; but I’ll tackle his Lordship.  “Come in, my Lord,” said
he, “Robert’s busy; but I’ll answer your purpose quite as well; sit down here, if you please.”
George began, “Now, my Lord, I know very well what you have come about: it’s that atmospheric
line in the north; I will show you in less than five minutes that it can never answer.”  “If
Mr. Robert Stephenson is not at liberty, I can call again,” said his Lordship.  “He’s certainly
occupied on important business just at present,” was George’s answer; “but I can tell you far
better than he can what nonsense the atmospheric system is: Robert’s good-natured, you see,
and if your Lordship were to get alongside of him you might talk him over; so you have been
quite lucky in meeting with me.  Now, just look at the question of expense,”—and then he proceeded
in his strong Doric to explain his views in detail, until Lord Howick could stand it no longer,
and he rose and walked towards the door.  George followed him down stairs, to finish his demolition
of the atmospheric system, and his parting words were, “You may take my word for it, my Lord,
it will never answer.”  George afterwards told his son with glee of “the settler” he had given
Lord Howick.

So closely were the Stephensons identified with this measure, and so great was the personal
interest which they were both known to take in its success, that, on the news of the triumph
of the bill reaching Newcastle, a sort of general holiday took place, and the workmen belonging
to the Stephenson Locomotive Factory, upwards of 800 in number, walked in procession through
the principal streets of the town, accompanied with music and banners.

It is unnecessary to enter into any description of the works on the Newcastle and Berwick Railway.
There are no fewer than 110 bridges of all sorts on the line—some under and some over it. 
But by far the most formidable piece of masonry work on this railway is at its northern extremity,
where it passes across the Tweed into Scotland, immediately opposite the formerly redoubtable
castle of Berwick.  Not many centuries had passed since the district amidst which this bridge
stands was the scene of almost constant warfare.  Berwick was regarded as the key of Scotland,
and was fiercely fought for, sometimes held by a Scotch and sometimes by an English garrison.
Though strongly fortified, it was repeatedly taken by assault.  On its capture by Edward I.,
Boetius says 17,000 persons were slain, so that its streets “ran with blood like a river.”
Within sight of the ramparts, a little to the west, is Halidon Hill, where a famous victory
was gained by Edward III., over the Scottish army under Douglas; and there is scarcely a foot
of ground in the neighbourhood but has been the scene of contention in days long past.  In
the reigns of James I. and Charles I., a bridge of 15 arches was built across the Tweed at
Berwick; and in our own day a railway-bridge of 28 arches has been built a little above the
old one, but at a much higher level.  The bridge built by the Kings, out of the national resources,
cost £15,000, and occupied 24 years and 4 months in the building; the bridge built by the Railway
Company, with funds drawn from private resources, cost £120,000, and was finished in 3 years
and 4 months from the day of laying the foundation-stone.

          [Picture: The Royal Border Bridge, Berwick-upon-Tweed]

This important viaduct, built after the design of Robert Stephenson, consists of a series of
28 semicircular arches, each 61 feet 6 inches in span, the greatest height above the bed of
the river being 126 feet.  The whole is built of ashlar, with a hearting of rubble; excepting
the river parts of the arches, which are constructed with bricks laid in cement. The total
length of the work is 2160 feet.  The foundations of the piers were got in by coffer-dams in
the ordinary way, Nasmyth’s steam-hammer being extensively used in driving the piles.  The
bearing piles, from which the foundations of the piers were built up, were each capable of
carrying 70 tons.

Another bridge, of still greater importance, necessary to complete the continuity of the East
Coast route, was the masterwork erected by Robert Stephenson between the north and south banks
of the Tyne at Newcastle, commonly known as the High Level Bridge.  Mr. R. W. Brandling, George
Stephenson’s early friend, is entitled to the merit of originating the idea of this bridge
as it was eventually carried out, with a central terminus for the northern railways in the
Castle Garth.  The plan was first promulgated by him in 1841; and in the following year it
was resolved that George Stephenson should be consulted as to the most advisable site for the
proposed structure.  A prospectus of a High Level Bridge Company was issued in 1843, the names
of George Stephenson and George Hudson appearing on the committee of management, Robert Stephenson
being the consulting engineer.  The project was eventually taken up by the Newcastle and Darlington
Railway Company, and an Act for the construction of the bridge was obtained in 1845.

The rapid extension of railways had given an extraordinary stimulus to the art of bridge-building;
the number of such structures erected in Great Britain alone, since 1830, having been above
25,000, or more than all that had before existed in the country.  Instead of the erection a
single large bridge constituting, as formerly, an epoch in engineering, hundreds of extensive
bridges of novel design were simultaneously constructed.  The necessity which existed for carrying
rigid roads, capable of bearing heavy railway trains at high speeds, over extensive gaps free
of support, rendered it obvious that the methods which had up to that time been employed for
bridging space were altogether insufficient.  The railway engineer could not, like the ordinary
road engineer, divert his road and make choice of the best point for crossing a river or a
valley.  He must take such ground as lay in the line of his railway, be it bog, or mud, or
shifting sand.  Navigable rivers and crowded thoroughfares had to be crossed without interruption
to the existing traffic, sometimes by bridges at right angles to the river or road, sometimes
by arches more or less oblique.  In many cases great difficulty arose from the limited nature
of the headway; but, as the level of the original road must generally be preserved, and that
of the railway was in a measure fixed and determined, it was necessary to modify the form and
structure of the bridge, in almost every case, in order to comply with the public requirements.
Novel conditions were met by fresh inventions, and difficulties of the most unusual character
were one after another successfully surmounted.  In executing these extraordinary works, iron
has been throughout the sheet-anchor of the engineer.  In its different forms of cast or wrought
iron, it offered a valuable resource, where rapidity of execution, great strength, and cheapness
of construction in the first instance, were elements of prime importance; and by its skilful
use, the railway architect was enabled to achieve results which thirty years ago would scarcely
have been thought possible.

In many of the early cast-iron bridges the old form of the arch was adopted, the stability
of the structure depending wholly on compression, the only novel feature being the use of iron
instead of stone.  But in a large proportion of cases, the arch, with the railroad over it,
was found inapplicable in consequence of the limited headway which it provided. Hence it early
occurred to George Stephenson, when constructing the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, to adopt
the simple cast-iron beam for the crossing of several roads and canals along that line—this
beam resembling in some measure the lintel of the early temples—the pressure on the abutments
being purely vertical.  One of the earliest instances of this kind of bridge was that erected
over Water Street, Manchester, in 1829; after which, cast-iron girders, with their lower webs
considerably larger than their upper, were ordinarily employed where the span was moderate;
and wrought-iron tie rods below were added to give increased strength where the span was greater.

The next step was the contrivance of arched beams or bowstring girders, firmly held together
by horizontal ties to resist the thrust, instead of abutments.  Numerous excellent specimens
of this description of bridge were erected by Robert Stephenson on the original London and
Birmingham Railway; but by far the grandest work of the kind—perfect as a specimen of modern
constructive skill—was the High Level Bridge, which we owe to the genius of the same engineer.

The problem was, to throw a railway bridge across the deep ravine which lies between the towns
of Newcastle and Gateshead, at the bottom of which flows the navigable river Tyne.  Along and
up the sides of the valley—on the Newcastle bank especially—run streets of old-fashioned houses,
clustered together in the strange forms peculiar to the older cities. The ravine is of great
depth—so deep and so gloomy-looking towards dusk, that local tradition records that when the
Duke of Cumberland arrived late in the evening at the brow of the hill overlooking the Tyne,
on his way to Culloden, he exclaimed to his attendants, on looking down into the black gorge
before him, “For God’s sake, don’t think of taking me down that coal-pit at this time of night!”
The road down the Gateshead High Street is almost as steep as the roof of a house, and up the
Newcastle Side, as the street there is called, it is little better.  During many centuries
the traffic north and south passed along this dangerous and difficult route, over the old bridge
which crosses the river in the bottom of the valley.  For about 30 years the Newcastle Corporation
had discussed various methods of improving the communication between the towns; and the discussion
might have gone on for 30 years more, but for the advent of railways, when the skill and enterprise
to which they gave birth speedily solved the difficulty and bridged the ravine.  The local
authorities adroitly took advantage of the opportunity, and insisted on the provision of a
road for ordinary vehicles and foot passengers in addition to the railroad.  In this circumstance
originated one of the striking peculiarities of the High Level Bridge, which serves two purposes,
being a railway above and a carriage roadway underneath.

The breadth of the river at the point of crossing is 515 feet, but the length of the bridge
and viaduct between the Gateshead station and the terminus on the Newcastle side is about 4000
feet.  It springs from Pipewell Gate Bank, on the south, directly across to Castle Garth, where,
nearly fronting the bridge, stands the fine old Norman keep of the New Castle, now nearly 800
years old, and a little beyond it is the spire of St. Nicholas Church, with its light and graceful
Gothic crown; the whole forming a grand architectural group of unusual historic interest. 
The bridge passes completely over the roofs of the houses which fill both sides of the valley;
and the extraordinary height of the upper parapet, which is about 130 feet above the bed of
the river, offers a prospect to the passing traveller the like of which is perhaps nowhere
else to be seen.  Far below are the queer chares and closes, the wynds and lanes of old Newcastle;
the water is crowded with pudgy, black, coal keels; and, when there is a partial dispersion
of the great smoke clouds which usually obscure the sky, the funnels of steamers and the masts
of shipping may be seen far down the river.  The old bridge lies so far beneath that the passengers
crossing it seem like so many bees passing to and fro.

The first difficulty encountered in building the bridge was in securing a solid foundation
for the piers.  The dimensions of the piles to be driven were so huge, that the engineer found
it necessary to employ some extraordinary means for the purpose.  He called Nasmyth’s Titanic
steam-hammer to his aid—the first occasion, we believe, on which this prodigious power was
employed in bridge pile-driving.  A temporary staging was erected for the steam-engine and
hammer apparatus, which rested on two keels, and, notwithstanding the newness and stiffness
of the machinery, the first pile was driven on the 6th October, 1846, to a depth of 32 feet,
in four minutes.  Two hammers of 30 cwt. each were kept in regular use, making from 60 to 70
strokes a minute; and the results were astounding to those who had been accustomed to the old
style of pile-driving by means of the ordinary pile-frame, consisting of slide, ram, and monkey.
By the old system, the pile was driven by a comparatively small mass of iron descending with
great velocity from a considerable height—the velocity being in excess and the mass deficient,
and calculated, like the momentum of a cannon-ball, rather for destructive than impulsive action.
In the case of the steam pile-driver, on the contrary, the whole weight of a heavy mass is
delivered rapidly upon a driving-block of several tons weight placed directly over the head
of the pile, the weight never ceasing, and the blows being repeated at the rate of a blow a
second, until the pile is driven home.  It is a curious fact, that the rapid strokes of the
steam-hammer evolved so much heat, that on many occasions the pile-head burst into flames during
the process of driving.  The elastic force of steam is the power that lifts the ram, the escape
permitting its entire force to fall upon the head of the driving block; while the steam above
the piston on the upper part of the cylinder, acting as a buffer or recoil-spring, materially
enhances the effect of the downward blow.  As soon as one pile was driven, the traveller, hovering
overhead, presented another, and down it went into the solid bed of the river, with almost
as much ease as a lady sticks pins into a cushion.  By the aid of this powerful machine, pile-driving,
formerly among the most costly and tedious of engineering operations, became easy, rapid, and
comparatively economical.

When the piles had been driven and the coffer-dams formed and puddled, the water within the
enclosed spaces was pumped out by the aid of powerful engines, so as, if possible, to lay bare
the bed of the river. Considerable difficulty was experienced in getting in the foundations
of the middle pier, in consequence of the water forcing itself through the quicksand beneath
as fast as it was removed, This fruitless labour went on for months, and many expedients were
tried.  Chalk was thrown in in large quantities outside the piling, but without effect.  Cement
concrete was at last put within the coffer-dam, until it set, and the bottom was then found
to be secure.  A bed of concrete was laid up to the level of the heads of the piles, the foundation
course of stone blocks being commenced about two feet below low water, and the building proceeded
without further difficulty.  It may serve to give an idea of the magnitude of the work, when
we state that 400,000 cubic feet of ashlar, rubble, and concrete were worked up in the piers,
and 450,000 cubic feet in the land-arches and approaches.

The most novel feature of the structure is the use of cast and wrought iron in forming the
double bridge, which admirably combines the two principles of the arch and suspension; the
railway being carried over the back of the ribbed arches in the usual manner, while the carriage-road
and footpaths, forming a long gallery or aisle, are suspended from these arches by wrought-iron
vertical rods, with horizontal tie-bars to resist the thrust.  The suspension-bolts are enclosed
within spandril pillars of cast iron, which give great stiffness to the superstructure.  This
system of longitudinal and vertical bracing has been much admired, for it not only accomplishes
the primary object of securing rigidity in the roadway, but at the same time, by its graceful
arrangement, heightens the beauty of the structure.  The arches consist of four main ribs,
disposed in pairs with a clear distance between the two inner arches of 20 feet 4 inches, forming
the carriage-road, while between each of the inner and outer ribs there is a space of 6 feet
2 inches, constituting the footpaths.  Each arch is cast in five separate lengths or segments,
strongly bolted together.  The ribs spring from horizontal plates of cast iron, bedded and
secured on the stone piers.  All the abutting joints were carefully executed by machinery,
the fitting being of the most perfect kind.  In order to provide for the expansion and contraction
of the iron arching, and to preserve the equilibrium of the piers without disturbance or racking
of the other parts of the bridge, it was arranged that the ribs of every two adjoining arches
resting on the same pier should be secured to the springing-plates by keys and joggles; whilst
on the next piers on either side, the ribs remained free and were at liberty to expand or contract
according to temperature—a space being left for the purpose.  Hence each arch is complete and
independent in itself, the piers having simply to sustain their vertical pressure.  There are
six arches of 125 feet span each; the two approaches to the bridge being formed of cast-iron
pillars and bearers in keeping with the arches.

            [Picture: High Level Bridge—Elevation of one Arch]

The result is a bridge that for massive solidity may be pronounced unrivalled.  It is perhaps
the most magnificent and striking of all the bridges to which railways have given birth, and
has been worthily styled “the King of railway structures.”  It is a monument of the highest
engineering skill of our time, with the impress of power grandly stamped upon it.  It will
also be observed, from the drawing placed as the frontispiece of this book, that the High Level
Bridge forms a very fine object in a picture of great interest, full of striking architectural
variety and beauty.  The bridge was opened on the 15th August, 1849, and a few days after the
royal train passed over it, halting for a few minutes to enable her Majesty to survey the wonderful
scene below.  In the course of the following year the Queen opened the extensive stone viaduct
across the Tweed, above described, by which the last link was completed of the continuous line
of railway between London and Edinburgh. Over the entrance to the Berwick station, occupying
the site of the once redoubtable Border fortress, so often the deadly battle-ground of the
ancient Scots and English, was erected an arch under which the royal train passed, bearing
in large letters of gold the appropriate words, “The last act of the Union.”

The warders at Berwick no longer look out from the castle walls to descry the glitter of Southron
spears.  The bell-tower, from which the alarm was sounded of old, though still standing, is
deserted; the only bell heard within the precincts of the old castle being the railway porter’s
bell announcing the arrival and departure of trains.  You see the Scotch express pass along
the bridge and speed southward on the wings of steam. But no alarm spreads along the border
now.  Northumbrian beeves are safe. Chevy-Chase and Otterburn are quiet sheep-pastures.  The
only men at arms on the battlements of Alnwick Castle are of stone.  Bamborough Castle has
become an asylum for shipwrecked mariners, and the Norman Keep at Newcastle has been converted
into a Museum of Antiquities.  The railway has indeed consummated the Union.

We have now to describe briefly another great undertaking, begun by George Stephenson, and
taken up and completed by his son, in the course of which the latter carried out some of his
greatest works—we mean the Chester and Holyhead Railway, completing the railway connection
with Dublin, as the Newcastle and Berwick line completed the connection with Edinburgh.  It
will thus be seen how closely Telford was followed by the Stephensons in perfecting the highways
of their respective epochs; the former by means of turnpike-roads, and the latter by means
of railways.

George Stephenson surveyed a line from Chester to Holyhead in 1838, and at the same time reported
on the line through North Wales to Port Dynllaen, proposed by the Irish Railway Commissioners.
His advice was strongly in favour of adopting the line to Holyhead, as less costly and presenting
better gradients.  A public meeting was held at Chester, in January, 1839, in support of the
latter measure, at which he was present to give explanations.  Mr. Uniacke, the Mayor, in opening
the proceedings, said that Mr. Stephenson was present, ready to answer any questions which
might be put to him on the subject; and it was judiciously remarked that “it would be better
that he should be asked questions than required to make a speech; for, though a very good engineer,
he was a bad speaker.”  One of the questions then put to Mr. Stephenson related to the mode
by which he proposed to haul the passenger carriages over the Menai Suspension Bridge by horse
power; and he was asked whether he knew the pressure the bridge was capable of sustaining.
His answer was, that “he had not yet made any calculations; but he proposed getting data which
would enable him to arrive at an accurate calculation of the actual strain upon the bridge
during the late gale. He had, however, no hesitation in saying that it was more than twenty
times as much as the strain of a train of carriages and a locomotive engine.  The only reason
why he proposed to convey the carriages over by horses, was in order that he might, by distributing
the weight, not increase the wavy motion.  All the train would be on at once; but distributed.
This he thought better than passing them, linked together, by a locomotive engine.”  It will
thus be observed that the practicability of throwing a rigid railway bridge across the Straits
had not yet been contemplated.

The Dublin Chamber of Commerce passed resolutions in favour of Stephenson’s line, after hearing
his explanation of its essential features.  The project, after undergoing much discussion,
was at length embodied in an Act passed in 1844; and the work was brought to a successful completion
by his son, with several important modifications, including the grand original feature of the
tubular bridges across the Menai Straits and the estuary of the Conway.  Excepting these great
works, the construction of this line presented no unusual features; though the remarkable terrace
cut for the accommodation of the railway under the steep slope of Penmaen Mawr is worthy of
a passing notice.

About midway between Conway and Bangor, Penmaen Mawr forms a bold and almost precipitous headland,
at the base of which, in rough weather, the ocean dashes with great fury.  There was not space
enough between the mountain and the strand for the passage of the railway; hence in some places
the rock had to be blasted to form a terrace, and in others sea-walls had to be built up to
the proper level, on which to form an embankment of sufficient width to enable the road to
be laid.  [Picture: Penmaen Mawr.  (By Percival Skelton.)] A tunnel 10½ chains in length was
cut through the headland itself; and on its east and west sides the line was formed by a terrace
cut out of the cliff, and by embankments protected by sea walls; the terrace being three times
interrupted by embankments in its course of about 1¼ mile.  The road lies so close under the
steep mountain face, that it was even found necessary at certain places to protect it against
possible accidents from falling stones, by means of a covered way.  The terrace on the east
side of the headland was, however, in some measure protected against the roll of the sea by
the mass of stone run out from the tunnel, and forming a deep shingle bank in front of the wall.

The part of the work which lies on the westward of the headland penetrated by the tunnel, was
exposed to the full force of the sea; and the formation of the road at that point was attended
with great difficulty.  While the sea wall was still in progress, its strength was severely
tried by a strong north-westerly gale, which blew in October, 1846, with a spring tide of 17
feet.  On the following morning it was found that a large portion of the rubble was irreparably
injured, and 200 yards of the wall were then replaced by an open viaduct, with the piers placed
edgeways to the sea, the openings between them being spanned by ten cast-iron girders each
42 feet long.  This accident induced the engineer to alter the contour of the sea wall, so
that it should present a diminished resistance to the force of the waves.  But the sea repeated
its assaults, and made further havoc with the work; entailing heavy expenses and a complete
reorganisation of the contract.  Increased solidity was then given to the masonry, and the
face of the wall underwent further change.  At some points outworks were constructed, and piles
were driven into the beach about 15 feet from the base of the wall, for the purpose of protecting
its foundations and breaking the force of the waves.  The work was at length finished after
about three years’ anxious labour; but Mr. Stephenson confessed that if a long tunnel had been
made in the first instance through the solid rock of Penmaen Mawr, a saving of from £25,000
to £30,000 would have been effected.  He also said he had arrived at the conclusion that in
railway works engineers should endeavour as far as possible to avoid the necessity of contending
with the sea; {324} but if he were ever again compelled to go within its reach, he would adopt,
instead of retaining walls, an open viaduct, placing all the piers edgeways to the force of
the sea, and allowing the waves to break upon a natural slope of beach.  He was ready enough
to admit the errors he had committed in the original design of this work; but he said he had
always gained more information from studying the causes of failures and endeavouring to surmount
them than he had done from easily-won successes.  Whilst many of the latter had been forgotten,
the former were indelibly fixed in his memory.

But by far the greatest difficulty which Robert Stephenson had to encounter in executing this
railway, was in carrying it across the Straits of Menai and the estuary of the Conway, where,
like his predecessor Telford when forming his high road through North Wales, he was under the
necessity of resorting to new and altogether untried methods of bridge construction.  At Menai
the waters of the Irish Sea are perpetually vibrating along the precipitous shores of the strait;
rising and falling from 20 to 25 feet at each successive tide; the width and depth of the channel
being such as to render it available for navigation by the largest ships.  The problem was,
to throw a bridge across this wide chasm—a bridge of unusual span and dimensions—of such strength
as to be capable of bearing the heaviest loads at high speeds, and at such a uniform height
throughout as not in any way to interfere with the navigation of the Strait.  From an early
period, Mr. Stephenson had fixed upon the spot where the Britannia Rock occurs, nearly in the
middle of the channel, as the most eligible point for crossing; the water-width from shore
to shore at high water there being about 1100 feet.  His first idea was to construct the bridge
of two cast-iron arches, each of 350 feet span.  There was no novelty in this idea; for, as
early as the year 1801, Mr. Rennie prepared a design of a cast-iron bridge across the Strait
at the Swilly rocks, the great centre arch of which was to be 450 feet span; and at a later
period, in 1810, Telford submitted a design of a similar bridge at Inys-y-Moch, with a single
cast-iron arch of 500 feet.  But the same objections which led to the rejection of Rennie’s
and Telford’s designs, proved fatal to Robert Stephenson’s, and his iron-arched railway bridge
was rejected by the Admiralty.  The navigation of the Strait was under no circumstances to
be interfered with; and even the erection of scaffolding from below, to support the bridge
during construction, was not to be permitted.  The idea of a suspension bridge was dismissed
as inapplicable; a degree of rigidity and strength, greater than could be secured by any bridge
constructed on the principle of suspension, being considered an indispensable condition of
the proposed structure.

                       [Picture: Britannia Bridge]

Various other plans were suggested; but the whole question remained unsettled even down to
the time when the Company went before Parliament, in 1844, for power to construct the proposed
bridges.  No existing kind of structure seemed to be capable of bearing the fearful extension
to which rigid bridges of the necessary spans would be subjected; and some new expedient of
engineering therefore became necessary.

Mr. Stephenson was then led to reconsider a design which he had made in 1841 for a road bridge
over the river Lea at Ware, with a span of 50 feet,—the conditions only admitting of a platform
18 or 20 inches thick. For this purpose a wrought-iron platform was designed, consisting of
a series of simple cells, formed of boiler-plates riveted together with angle-iron.  The bridge
was not, however, carried out after this design, but was made of separate wrought-iron girders
composed of riveted plates. Recurring to his first idea of this bridge, Mr. Stephenson thought
that a stiff platform might be constructed, with sides of strongly trussed frame-work of wrought-iron,
braced together at top and bottom with plates of like material riveted together with angle-iron;
and that such platform might be suspended by strong chains on either side to give it increased
security.  “It was now,” says Mr. Stephenson, “that I came to regard the tubular platform as
a beam, and that the chains should be looked upon as auxiliaries.”  It appeared, nevertheless,
that without a system of diagonal struts inside, which of course would have prevented the passage
of trains through it, this kind of structure was ill-suited for maintaining its form, and would
be very liable to become lozenge-shaped. Besides, the rectangular figure was deemed objectionable,
from the large surface which it presented to the wind.

It then occurred to him that circular or elliptical tubes might better answer the intended
purpose; and in March, 1845, he gave instructions to two of his assistants to prepare drawings
of such a structure, the tubes being made with a double thickness of plate at top and bottom.
The results of the calculations made as to the strength of such a tube, were considered so
satisfactory, that Mr. Stephenson says he determined to fall back on a bridge of this description,
on the rejection of his design of the two cast-iron arches by the Parliamentary Committee.
Indeed, it became evident that a tubular wrought-iron beam was the only structure which combined
the necessary strength and stability for a railway, with the conditions deemed essential for
the protection of the navigation.  “I stood,” says Mr. Stephenson, “on the verge of a responsibility
from which, I confess, I had nearly shrunk.  The construction of a tubular beam of such gigantic
dimensions, on a platform elevated and supported by chains at such a height, did at first present
itself as a difficulty of a very formidable nature.  Reflection, however, satisfied me that
the principles upon which the idea was founded were nothing more than an extension of those
daily in use in the profession of the engineer.  The method, moreover, of calculating the strength
of the structure which I had adopted, was of the simplest and most elementary character; and
whatever might be the form of the tube, the principle on which the calculations were founded
was equally applicable, and could not fail to lead to equally accurate results.” {327}  Mr.
Stephenson accordingly announced to the directors of the railway that he was prepared to carry
out a bridge of this general description, and they adopted his views, though not without considerable
misgivings.

While the engineer’s mind was still occupied with the subject, an accident occurred to the
Prince of Wales iron steamship, at Blackwall, which singularly corroborated his views as to
the strength of wrought-iron beams of large dimensions.  When this vessel was being launched,
the cleet on the bow gave way, in consequence of the bolts breaking, and let the vessel down
so that the bilge came in contact with the wharf, and she remained suspended between the water
and the wharf for a length of about 110 feet, but without any injury to the plates of the ship;
satisfactorily proving the great strength of this form of construction.  Thus, Mr. Stephenson
became gradually confirmed in his opinion that the most feasible method of bridging the strait
at Menai and the river at Conway was by means of a hollow beam of wrought-iron.  As the time
was approaching for giving evidence before Parliament on the subject, it was necessary for
him to settle some definite plan for submission to the committee.  “My late revered father,”
says he, “having always taken a deep interest in the various proposals which had been considered
for carrying a railway across the Menai Straits, requested me to explain fully to him the views
which led me to suggest the use of a tube, and also the nature of the calculations I had made
in reference to it.  It was during this personal conference that Mr. William Fairbairn accidentally
called upon me, to whom I also explained the principles of the structure I had proposed.  He
at once acquiesced in their truth, and expressed confidence in the feasibility of my project,
giving me at the same time some facts relative to the remarkable strength of iron steamships,
and invited me to his works at Millwall, to examine the construction of an iron steamship which
was then in progress.”  The date of this consultation was early in April, 1845, and Mr. Fairbairn
states that, on that occasion, “Mr. Stephenson asked whether such a design was practicable,
and whether I could accomplish it: and it was ultimately arranged that the subject should be
investigated experimentally, to determine not only the value of Mr. Stephenson’s original conception
(of a circular or egg-shaped wrought-iron tube, supported by chains), but that of any other
tubular form of bridge which might present itself in the prosecution of my researches.  The
matter was placed unreservedly in my hands; the entire conduct of the investigation was entrusted
to me; and, as an experimenter, I was to be left free to exercise my own discretion in the
investigation of whatever forms or conditions of the structure might appear to me best calculated
to secure a safe passage across the Straits.” {329a}  Mr. Fairbairn then proceeded to construct
a number of experimental models for the purpose of testing the strength of tubes of different
forms.  The short period which elapsed, however, before the bill was in committee, did not
admit of much progress being made with those experiments; but from the evidence in chief given
by Mr. Stephenson on the subject, on the 5th May following, it appears that the idea which
prevailed in his mind was that of a bridge with openings of 450 feet (afterwards increased
to 460 feet); with a roadway formed of a hollow wrought-iron beam, about 25 feet in diameter,
presenting a rigid platform, suspended by chains.  At the same time, he expressed the confident
opinion that a tube of wrought iron would possess sufficient strength and rigidity to support
a railway train running inside of it without the help of the chains.

While the bill was still in progress, Mr. Fairbairn proceeded with his experiments.  He first
tested tubes of a cylindrical form, in consequence of the favourable opinion entertained by
Mr. Stephenson of the tubes in that shape, extending them subsequently to those of an elliptical
form. {329b}  He found tubes thus shaped more or less defective, and proceeded to test those
of a rectangular kind.  After the bill had received the royal assent on the 30th June, 1845,
the directors of the company, with great liberality, voted a sum for the purpose of enabling
the experiments to be prosecuted, and upwards of £6000 were thus expended to make the assurance
of their engineer doubly sure.  Mr. Fairbairn’s tests were of the most elaborate and eventually
conclusive character, bringing to light many new and important facts of great practical value.
The due proportions and thicknesses of the top, bottom, and sides of the tubes were arrived
at after a vast number of trials; one of the results of the experiments being the adoption
of Mr. Fairbairn’s invention of rectangular hollow cells in the top of the beam for the purpose
of giving it the requisite degree of strength.  About the end of August it was thought desirable
to obtain the assistance of a mathematician, who should prepare a formula by which the strength
of a full-sized tube might be calculated from the results of the experiments made with tubes
of smaller dimensions.  Professor Hodgkinson was accordingly called in, and he proceeded to
verify and confirm the experiments which Mr. Fairbairn had made, and afterwards reduced them
to the required formula.

Mr. Stephenson’s time was so much engrossed with his extensive engineering business that he
was in a great measure precluded from devoting himself to the consideration of the practical
details.  The results of the experiments were communicated to him from time to time, and were
regarded by him as exceedingly satisfactory.  It would appear, however, that while Mr. Fairbairn
urged the rigidity and strength of the tubes without the aid of chains, Mr. Stephenson had
not quite made up his mind upon the point.  Mr. Hodgkinson, also, was strongly inclined to
retain them.  Mr. Fairbairn held that it was quite practicable to make the tubes “sufficiently
strong to sustain not only their own weight, but, in addition to that load, 2000 tons equally
distributed over the surface of the platform,—a load ten times greater than they will ever
be called upon to support.”

It was thoroughly characteristic of Mr. Stephenson, and of the caution with which he proceeded
in every step of this great undertaking—probing every inch of the ground before he set down
his foot upon it—that he should, early in 1856, (sic) have appointed his able assistant, Mr.
Edwin Clark, to scrutinise carefully the results of every experiment, and subject them to a
separate and independent analysis before finally deciding upon the form or dimensions of the
structure, or upon any mode of procedure connected with it.  At length Mr. Stephenson became
satisfied that the use of auxiliary chains was unnecessary, and that the tubular bridge might
be made of such strength as to be entirely self-supporting.

While these important discussions were in progress, measures were taken to proceed with the
masonry of the bridges simultaneously at Conway and the Menai Straits.  The foundation-stone
of the Britannia Bridge was laid on the 10th April, 1846; and on the 12th May following that
of the Conway Bridge was laid.  Suitable platforms and workshops were also erected for proceeding
with the punching, fitting, and riveting of the tubes; and when these operations were in full
progress, the neighbourhood of the Conway and Britannia Bridges presented scenes of extraordinary
bustle and industry.  About 1500 men were employed on the Britannia Bridge alone, and they
mostly lived upon the ground in wooden cottages erected for the occasion.  The iron plates
were brought in ship-loads from Liverpool, Anglesey marble from Penmon, and red sandstone from
Runcorn, in Cheshire, as wind and tide, and shipping and convenience, might determine.  There
was an unremitting clank of hammers, grinding of machinery, and blasting of rock, going on
from morning till night.  In fitting the Britannia tubes together, not less than 2,000,000
of bolts were riveted, weighing some 900 tons.

The Britannia Bridge consists of two independent continuous tubular beams, each 1511 feet in
length, and each weighing 4680 tons, independent of the cast-iron frames inserted at their
bearings on the masonry of the towers.  These immense beams are supported at five places, namely,
on the abutments and on three towers, the central of which is known as the Great Britannia
Tower, 230 feet high, built on a rock in the middle of the Strait.  The side towers are 18
feet less in height than the central one, and the abutment 35 feet lower than the side towers.
The design of the masonry is such as to accord with the form of the tubes, being somewhat of
an Egyptian character, massive and gigantic rather than beautiful, but bearing the unmistakable
impress of power.

The bridge has four spans,—two of 460 feet over the water, and two of 230 feet over the land.
The weight of the larger spans, at the points where the tubes repose on the masonry, is not
less than 1587 tons.  On the centre tower the tubes rest solid; but on the land towers and
abutments they lie on roller-beds, so as to allow of expansion and contraction. The road within
each tube is 15 feet wide, and the height varies from 23 feet at the ends to 30 feet at the
centre.  To give an idea of the vast size of the tubes by comparison with other structures,
it may be mentioned that each length constituting the main spans is twice as long as London
Monument is high; and if it could be set on end in St. Paul’s Churchyard, it would reach nearly
100 feet above the cross.

The Conway Bridge is, in most respects, similar to the Britannia, consisting of two tubes,
of 400 feet span, placed side by side, each weighing 1180 tons.  The principle adopted in the
construction of the tubes, and the mode of floating and raising them, were nearly the same
as at the Britannia Bridge, though the general arrangement of the plates is in many respects
different.

It was determined to construct the shorter outer tubes of the Britannia Bridge on scaffoldings
in the positions in which they were permanently to remain, and to erect the larger tubes upon
wooden platforms at high-water-mark on the Caernarvon shore, from whence they were to be floated
in pontoons.

The floating of the tubes on pontoons, from the places where they had been constructed, to
the recesses in the masonry of the towers, up which they were to be hoisted to the positions
they were permanently to occupy, was an anxious and exciting operation.  The first part of
this process was performed at Conway, where Mr. Stephenson directed it in person, assisted
by Captain Claxton, Mr. Brunel, and other engineering friends. On the 6th March, 1848, the
pontoons bearing the first great tube of the up-line were floated round quietly and majestically
into their place between the towers in about twenty minutes.  Unfortunately, one of the sets
of pontoons had become slightly slued by the stream, by which the Conway end of the tube was
prevented from being brought home; and five anxious days to all concerned intervened before
it could be set in its place.  In the mean time, the presses and raising machinery had been
fitted in the towers above, and the lifting process was begun on the 8th April, when the immense
mass was raised 8 feet, at the rate of about 2 inches a minute.  On the 16th, the tube had
been raised and finally lowered into its permanent bed; the rails were laid along it; and,
on the 18th, Mr. Stephenson passed through with the first locomotive.  The second tube was
proceeded with on the removal of the first from the platform, and was completed and floated
in seven months.  The rapidity with which this second tube was constructed was in no small
degree owing to the Jacquard punching-machine, contrived for the purpose by Mr. Roberts of
Manchester.  This tube was finally fixed in its permanent bed on the 2nd of January, 1849.

                     [Picture: Conway Tubular Bridge]

The floating and fixing of the great Britannia tubes was a still more formidable enterprise,
though the experience gained at Conway rendered it easy compared with what it otherwise would
have been.  Mr. Stephenson superintended the operation of floating the first in person, giving
the arranged signals from the top of the tube on which he was mounted, the active part of the
business being performed by a numerous corps of sailors, under the immediate direction of Captain
Claxton.  Thousands of spectators lined the shores of the Strait on the evening of the 19th
June, 1849.  On the land attachments being cut, the pontoons began to float off; but one of
the capstans having given way from excessive strain, the tube was brought home again for the
night.  By next morning the defective capstan was restored, and all was in readiness for another
trial.  At half-past seven in the evening the tube was afloat, and the pontoons swung out into
the current like a monster pendulum, held steady by the shore guide-lines, but increasing in
speed to almost a fearful extent as they neared their destined place between the piers.  “The
success of this operation,” says Mr. Clark, “depended mainly on properly striking the ‘butt’
beneath the Anglesey tower, on which, as upon a centre, the tube was to be veered round into
its position across the opening.  This position was determined by a 12-inch line, which was
to be paid out to a fixed mark from the Llanfair capstan.  The coils of the rope unfortunately
over-rode each other upon this capstan, so that it could not be paid out.  In resisting the
motion of the tube, the capstan was bodily dragged out of the platform by the action of the
palls, and the tube was in imminent danger of being carried away by the stream, or the pontoons
crushed upon the rocks.  The men at the capstan were all knocked down, and some of them thrown
into the water, though they made every exertion to arrest the motion of the capstan-bars. 
In this dilemma Mr. Rolfe, who had charge of the capstan, with great presence of mind, called
the visitors on shore to his assistance; and handing out the spare coil of the 12-inch line
into the field at the back of the capstan, it was carried with great rapidity up the field,
and a crowd of people, men, women, and children, holding on to this huge cable, arresting the
progress of the tube, which was at length brought safely against the butt and veered round.
The Britannia end was then drawn into the recess of the masonry by a chain passing through
the tower to a crab on the far side.  The violence of the tide abated, though the wind increased,
and the Anglesey end was drawn into its place beneath the corbelling in the masonry; and as
the tide went down, the pontoons deposited their valuable cargo on the welcome shelf at each
end.  The successful issue was greeted by cannon from the shore and the hearty cheers of many
thousands of spectators, whose sympathy and anxiety were but too clearly indicated by the unbroken
silence with which the whole operation had been accompanied.” {335}  By midnight all the pontoons
had been got clear of the tube, which now hung suspended over the waters of the Strait by its
two ends, which rested upon the edges cut in the rock for the purpose at the base of the Britannia
and Anglesey towers respectively, up which the tube had now to be lifted by hydraulic power
to its permanent place near the summit.  The accuracy with which the gigantic beam had been
constructed may be inferred from the fact that, after passing into its place, a clear space
remained between the iron plating and the rock outside of it of only about three-quarters of
an inch!

Mr. Stephenson’s anxiety was, of course, very great up to the time of performing this trying
operation.  When he had got the first tube floated at Conway, and saw all safe, he said to
Captain Moorsom, “Now I shall go to bed.”  But the Britannia Bridge was a still more difficult
enterprise, and cost him many a sleepless night.  Afterwards describing his feelings to his
friend Mr. Gooch, he said: “It was a most anxious and harassing time with me.  Often at night
I would lie tossing about, seeking sleep in vain.  The tubes filled my head.  I went to bed
with them and got up with them.  In the grey of the morning, when I looked across the Square,
{336} it seemed an immense distance across to the houses on the opposite side. It was nearly
the same length as the span of my tubular bridge!”  When the first tube had been floated, a
friend observed to him, “This great work has made you ten years older.”  “I have not slept
sound,” he replied, “for three weeks.”  Sir F. Head, however relates, that when he revisited
the spot on the following morning, he observed, sitting on a platform overlooking the suspended
tube, a gentleman, reclining entirely by himself, smoking a cigar, and gazing, as if indolently,
at the aërial gallery beneath him.  It was the engineer himself, contemplating his new born
child.  He had strolled down from the neighbouring village, after his first sound and refreshing
sleep for weeks, to behold in sunshine and solitude, that which during a weary period of gestation
had been either mysteriously moving in his brain, or, like a vision—sometimes of good omen,
and sometimes of evil—had, by night as well as by day, been flitting across his mind.

The next process was the lifting of the tube into its place, which was performed very deliberately
and cautiously.  It was raised by powerful hydraulic presses, only a few feet at a time, and
carefully under-built, before being raised to a farther height.  When it had been got up by
successive stages of this kind to about 24 feet, an extraordinary accident occurred, during
Mr. Stephenson’s absence in London, which he afterwards described to the author in as nearly
as possible the following words:—“In a work of such novelty and magnitude, you may readily
imagine how anxious I was that every possible contingency should be provided for. Where one
chain or rope was required, I provided two.  I was not satisfied with ‘enough:’ I must have
absolute security, as far as that was possible.  I knew the consequences of failure would be
most disastrous to the Company, and that the wisest economy was to provide for all contingencies
at whatever cost.  When the first tube at the Britannia had been successfully floated between
the piers, ready for being raised, my young engineers were very much elated; and when the hoisting
apparatus had been fixed, they wrote to me saying,—‘We are now all ready for raising her: we
could do it in a day, or in two at the most.  But my reply was, ‘No: you must only raise the
tube inch by inch, and you must build up under it as you rise.  Every inch must be made good.
Nothing must be left to chance or good luck.’  And fortunate it was that I insisted upon this
cautious course being pursued; for, one day, while the hydraulic presses were at work, the
bottom of one of them burst clean away!  The crosshead and the chains, weighing more than 50
tons, descended with a fearful crash upon the press, and the tube itself fell down upon the
packing beneath.  Though the fall of the tube was not more than nine inches, it crushed solid
castings, weighing tons, as if they had been nuts.  The tube itself was slightly strained and
deflected, though it still remained sufficiently serviceable.  But it was a tremendous test
to which it was put, for a weight of upwards of 5000 tons falling even a few inches must be
admitted to be a very serious matter. That it stood so well was extraordinary.  Clark immediately
wrote me an account of the circumstance, in which he said, ‘Thank God, you have been so obstinate.
For if this accident had occurred without a bed for the end of the tube to fall on, the whole
would now have been lying across the bottom of the Straits.’  Five thousand pounds extra expense
was caused by this accident, slight though it might seem.  But careful provision was made against
future failure; a new and improved cylinder was provided: and the work was very soon advancing
satisfactorily towards completion.”

When the Queen first visited the Britannia Bridge, on her return from the North in 1852, Robert
Stephenson accompanied Her Majesty and Prince Albert over the works, explaining the principles
on which the bridge had been built, and the difficulties which had attended its erection. 
He conducted the Royal party to near the margin of the sea, and, after describing to them the
incident of the fall of the tube, and the reason of its preservation, he pointed with pardonable
pride to a pile of stones which the workmen had there raised to commemorate the event.  While
nearly all the other marks of the work during its progress had been obliterated, that cairn
had been left standing in commemoration of the caution and foresight of their chief.

The floating and raising of the remaining tubes need not be described in detail.  The second
was floated on the 3rd December, and set in its permanent place on the 7th January, 1850. 
The others were floated and raised in due course.  On the 5th March, Mr. Stephenson put the
last rivet in the last tube, and passed through the completed bridge, accompanied by about
a thousand persons, drawn by three locomotives.  The bridge was opened for public traffic on
the 18th March.  The cost of the whole work was £234,450.

         [Picture: The Britannia Bridge.  (By Percival Skelton)]

The Britannia Bridge is one of the most remarkable monuments of the enterprise and skill of
the present century.  Robert Stephenson was the master spirit of the undertaking.  To him belongs
the merit of first seizing the ideal conception of the structure best adapted to meet the necessities
of the case; and of selecting the best men to work out his idea, himself watching, controlling,
and testing every result, by independent check and counter-check.  And finally, he organised
and directed, through his assistants, the vast band of skilled workmen and labourers who were
for so many years occupied in carrying his magnificent original conception to a successful
practical issue.  As he himself said of the work,—“The true and accurate calculation of all
the conditions and elements essential to the safety of the bridge had been a source not only
of mental but of bodily toil; including, as it did, a combination of abstract thought and well-considered
experiment adequate to the magnitude of the project.”

The Britannia Bridge was the result of a vast combination of skill and industry.  But for the
perfection of our tools and the ability of our mechanics to use them to the greatest advantage;
but for the matured powers of the steam-engine; but for the improvements in the iron manufacture,
which enabled blooms to be puddled of sizes before deemed impracticable, and plates and bars
of immense size to be rolled and forged; but for these, the Britannia Bridge would have been
designed in vain.  Thus, it was not the product of the genius of the railway engineer alone,
but of the collective mechanical genius of the English nation.

In describing the completion of the series of great works detailed in the preceding chapter,
we have somewhat anticipated the closing years of George Stephenson’s life.  He could not fail
to take an anxious interest in the success of his son’s designs, and he accordingly paid many
visits to Conway and to Menai, during the progress of the works.  He was present on the occasion
of the floating and raising of the first Conway tube, and there witnessed a clear proof of
the soundness of Robert’s judgment as to the efficiency and strength of the tubular bridge,
of which he had at first expressed some doubts; but before the like test could be applied at
the Britannia Bridge, George Stephenson’s mortal anxieties were at an end, for he had then
ceased from all his labours.

Towards the close of his life, George Stephenson almost entirely withdrew from the active pursuit
of his profession; he devoted himself chiefly to his extensive collieries and lime-works, taking
a local interest only in such projected railways as were calculated to open up new markets
for their products.

At home he lived the life of a country gentleman, enjoying his garden and grounds, and indulging
his love of nature, which, through all his busy life, had never left him.  It was not until
the year 1845 that he took an active interest in horticultural pursuits.  Then he began to
build new melon-houses, pineries, and vineries, of great extent; and he now seemed as eager
to excel all other growers of exotic plants in his neighbourhood, as he had been to surpass
the villagers of Killingworth in the production of gigantic cabbages and cauliflowers some
thirty years before.  He had a pine-house built 68 feet in length and a pinery 140 feet.  Workmen
were constantly employed in enlarging them, until at length he had no fewer than ten glass
forcing-houses, heated with hot water, which he was one of the first in that neighbourhood
to make use of for such a purpose.  He did not take so much pleasure in flowers as in fruits.
At one of the county agricultural meetings, he said that he intended yet to grow pineapples
at Tapton as big as pumpkins.  The only man to whom he would “knock under” was his friend Paxton,
the gardener to the Duke of Devonshire; and he was so old in the service, and so skilful, that
he could scarcely hope to beat him.  Yet his “Queen” pines did take the first prize at a competition
with the Duke,—though this was not until shortly after his death, when the plants had become
more fully grown. His grapes also took the first prize at Rotherham, at a competition open
to all England.  He was extremely successful in producing melons, having invented a method
of suspending them in baskets of wire gauze, which, by relieving the stalk from tension, allowed
nutrition to proceed more freely, and better enabled the fruit to grow and ripen.

He took much pride also in his growth of cucumbers.  He raised them very fine and large, but
he could not make them grow straight.  Place them as he would, notwithstanding all his propping
of them, and humouring them by modifying the application of heat and the admission of light
for the purpose of effecting his object, they would still insist on growing crooked in their
own way.  At last he had a number of glass cylinders made at Newcastle, for the purpose of
an experiment; into these the growing cucumbers were inserted, and then he succeeded in growing
them perfectly straight.  Carrying one of the new products into his house one day, and exhibiting
it to a party of visitors, he told them of the expedient he had adopted, and added gleefully,
“I think I have bothered them noo!”

Mr. Stephenson also carried on farming operations with some success.  He experimented on manure,
and fed cattle after methods of his own.  He was very particular as to breed and build in stock-breeding.
“You see, sir,” he said to one gentleman, “I like to see the coo’s back at a gradient something
like this” (drawing an imaginary line with his hand), “and then the ribs or girders will carry
more flesh than if they were so—or so.” When he attended the county agricultural meetings,
which he frequently did, he was accustomed to take part in the discussions, and he brought
the same vigorous practical mind to bear upon questions of tillage, drainage, and farm economy,
which he had been accustomed to exercise on mechanical and engineering matters.

All his early affection for birds and animals revived.  He had favourite dogs, and cows, and
horses; and again he began to keep rabbits, and to pride himself on the beauty of his breed.
There was not a bird’s nest upon the grounds that he did not know of; and from day to day he
went round watching the progress which the birds made with their building, carefully guarding
them from injury.  No one was more minutely acquainted with the habits of British birds, the
result of a long, loving, and close observation of nature.

At Tapton he remembered the failure of his early experiment in hatching birds’ eggs by heat,
and he now performed it successfully, being able to secure a proper apparatus for maintaining
a uniform temperature.  He was also curious about the breeding and fattening of fowls; and
when his friend Edward Pease of Darlington visited him at Tapton, he explained a method which
he had invented for fattening chickens in half the usual time.

Mrs. Stephenson tried to keep bees, but found they would not thrive at Tapton.  Many hives
perished, and there was no case of success.  The cause of failure was a puzzle to the engineer;
but one day his acute powers of observation enabled him to unravel it.  At the foot of the
hill on which Tapton House stands, he saw some bees trying to rise up from amongst the grass,
laden with honey and wax.  They were already exhausted, as if with long flying; and then it
occurred to him that the height at which the house stood above the bees’ feeding-ground rendered
it difficult for them to reach their hives when heavy laden, and hence they sank exhausted.
He afterwards incidentally mentioned the circumstance to Mr. Jesse the naturalist, who concurred
in his view as to the cause of failure, and was much struck by the keen observation which had
led to its solution.

Mr. Stephenson had none of the in-door habits of the student.  He read very little; for reading
is a habit which is generally acquired in youth; and his youth and manhood had been for the
most part spent in hard work. Books wearied him, and sent him to sleep.  Novels excited his
feelings too much, and he avoided them, though he would occasionally read through a philosophical
book on a subject in which he felt particularly interested.  He wrote very few letters with
his own hand; nearly all his letters were dictated, and he avoided even dictation when he could.
His greatest pleasure was in conversation, from which he gathered most of his imparted information.

It was his practice, when about to set out on a journey by railway, to walk along the train
before it started, and look into the carriages to see if he could find “a conversable face.”
On one of these occasions, at the Euston Station, he discovered in a carriage a very handsome,
manly, and intelligent face, which he afterwards found was that of the late Lord Denman.  He
was on his way down to his seat at Stony Middleton, in Derbyshire.  Mr. Stephenson entered
the carriage, and the two were shortly engaged in interesting conversation.  It turned upon
chronometry and horology, and the engineer amazed his lordship by the extent of his knowledge
on the subject, in which he displayed as much minute information, even down to the latest improvements
in watchmaking, as if he had been bred a watchmaker and lived by the trade.  Lord Denman was
curious to know how a man whose time must have been mainly engrossed by engineering, had gathered
so much knowledge on a subject quite out of his own line, and he asked the question.  “I learnt
clockmaking and watchmaking,” was the answer, “while a working man at Killingworth, when I
made a little money in my spare hours, by cleaning the pitmen’s clocks and watches; and since
then I have kept up my information on the subject.”  This led to further questions, and then
Mr. Stephenson told Lord Denman the interesting story of his life, which held him entranced
during the remainder of the journey.

Many of his friends readily accepted invitations to Tapton House to enjoy his hospitality,
which never failed.  With them he would “fight his battles o’er again,” reverting to his battle
for the locomotive; and he was never tired of telling, nor were his auditors of listening to,
the lively anecdotes with which he was accustomed to illustrate the struggles of his early
career.  Whilst walking in the woods or through the grounds, he would arrest his friend’s attention
by allusion to some simple object,—such as a leaf, a blade of grass, a bit of bark, a nest
of birds, or an ant carrying its eggs across the path,—and descant in glowing terms upon the
creative power of the Divine Mechanician, whose contrivances were so exhaustless and so wonderful.
This was a theme upon which he was often accustomed to dwell in reverential admiration, when
in the society of his more intimate friends.

One night, when walking under the stars, and gazing up into the field of suns, each the probable
centre of a system, forming the Milky Way, a friend said to him, “What an insignificant creature
is man in sight of so immense a creation as that!”  “Yes!” was his reply; “but how wonderful
a creature also is man, to be able to think and reason, and even in some measure to comprehend
works so infinite!”

A microscope, which he had brought down to Tapton, was a source of immense enjoyment to him;
and he was never tired of contemplating the minute wonders which it revealed.  One evening,
when some friends were visiting him, he induced them each to puncture their skin so as to draw
blood, in order that he might examine the globules through the microscope.  One of the gentlemen
present was a teetotaller, and Mr. Stephenson pronounced his blood to be the most lively of
the whole.  He had a theory of his own about the movement of the globules in the blood, which
has since become familiar.  It was, that they were respectively charged with electricity, positive
at one end and negative at the other, and that thus they attracted and repelled each other,
causing a circulation.  No sooner did he observe anything new, than he immediately set about
devising a reason for it.  His training in mechanics, his practical familiarity with matter
in all its forms, and the strong bent of his mind, led him first of all to seek for a mechanical
explanation. And yet he was ready to admit that there was a something in the principle of life—so
mysterious and inexplicable—which baffled mechanics, and seemed to dominate over and control
them.  He did not care much, either, for abstruse mechanics, but only for the experimental
and practical, as is usually the case with those whose knowledge has been self-acquired.

Even at his advanced age, the spirit of frolic had not left him.  When proceeding from Chesterfield
station to Tapton House with his friends, he would almost invariably challenge them to a race
up the steep path, partly formed of stone steps, along the hill side.  And he would struggle,
as of old, to keep the front place, though by this time his “wind” had greatly failed.  He
would occasionally invite an old friend to take a quiet wrestle with him on the lawn, to keep
up his skill, and perhaps to try some new “knack” of throwing.  In the evening, he would sometimes
indulge his visitors by reciting the old pastoral of “Damon and Phyllis,” or singing his favourite
song of “John Anderson my Joe.”  But his greatest glory amongst those with whom he was most
intimate, was a “crowdie!”  “Let’s have a crowdie night,” he would say; and forthwith a kettle
of boiling water was ordered in, with a basin of oatmeal.  Taking a large bowl, containing
a sufficiency of hot water, and placing it between his knees, he poured in oatmeal with one
hand, and stirred the mixture vigorously with the other.  When enough meal had been added,
and the stirring was completed, the crowdie was made.  It was then supped with new milk, and
Stephenson generally pronounced it “capital!”  It was the diet to which he had been accustomed
when a working man, and all the dainties with which he had become familiar in recent years
had not spoiled his simple tastes.  To enjoy crowdie at his age, besides, indicated that he
still possessed that quality on which no doubt much of his practical success in life had depended,—a
strong and healthy digestion.

He would also frequently invite to his house the humbler companions of his early life, and
take pleasure in talking over old times with them. He never assumed any of the bearings of
a great man on such occasions, but treated the visitors with the same friendliness and respect
as if they had been his equals, sending them away pleased with themselves and delighted with
him.  At other times, needy men who had known him in youth would knock at his door, and they
were never refused access.  But if he had heard of any misconduct on their part he would rate
them soundly. One who knew him intimately in private life has seen him exhorting such backsliders,
and denouncing their misconduct and imprudence with the tears streaming down his cheeks.  And
he would generally conclude by opening his purse, and giving them the help which they needed
“to make a fresh start in the world.”

Mr. Stephenson’s life at Tapton during his latter years was occasionally diversified with a
visit to London.  His engineering business having become limited, he generally went there for
the purpose of visiting friends, or “to see what there was fresh going on.”  He found a new
race of engineers springing up on all hands—men who knew him not; and his London journeys gradually
ceased to yield him pleasure.  A friend used to take him to the opera, but by the end of the
first act, he was generally in a profound slumber.  Yet on one occasion he enjoyed a visit
to the Haymarket with a party of friends on his birthday, to see T. P. Cooke, in “Black-eyed
Susan;”—if that can be called enjoyment which kept him in a state of tears during half the
performance.  At other times he visited Newcastle, which always gave him great pleasure.  He
would, on such occasions, go out to Killingworth and seek up old friends, and if the people
whom he knew were too retiring, and shrunk into their cottages, he went and sought them there.
Striking the floor with his stick, and holding his noble person upright, he would say, in his
own kind way, “Well, and how’s all here to-day?”  To the last he had always a warm heart for
Newcastle and its neighbourhood.

Sir Robert Peel, on more than one occasion, invited George Stephenson to his mansion at Drayton,
where he was accustomed to assemble round him men of the highest distinction in art, science,
and legislation, during the intervals of his parliamentary life.  The first invitation was
respectfully declined.  Sir Robert invited him a second time, and a second time he declined:
“I have no great ambition,” he said, “to mix in fine company, and perhaps should feel out of
my element amongst such high folks.”  But Sir Robert a third time pressed him to come down
to Tamworth early in January, 1845, when he would meet Buckland, Follett, and others well known
to both.  “Well, Sir Robert,” said he, “I feel your kindness very much, and can no longer refuse:
I will come down and join your party.”

Mr. Stephenson’s strong powers of observation, together with his native humour and shrewdness,
imparted to his conversation at all times much vigour and originality, and made him, to young
and old, a delightful companion.  Though mainly an engineer, he was also a profound thinker
on many scientific questions: and there was scarcely a subject of speculation, or a department
of recondite science, on which he had not employed his faculties in such a way as to have formed
large and original views.  At Drayton, the conversation usually turned upon such topics, and
Mr. Stephenson freely joined in it.  On one occasion, an animated discussion took place between
himself and Dr. Buckland on one of his favourite theories as to the formation of coal.  But
the result was, that Dr. Buckland, a much greater master of tongue-fence than Mr. Stephenson,
completely silenced him.  Next morning, before breakfast, when he was walking in the grounds,
deeply pondering, Sir William Follett came up and asked what he was thinking about?  “Why,
Sir William, I am thinking over that argument I had with Buckland last night; I know I am right,
and that if I had only the command of words which he has, I’d have beaten him.” “Let me know
all about it,” said Sir William, “and I’ll see what I can do for you.”  The two sat down in
an arbour, and the astute lawyer made himself thoroughly acquainted with the points of the
case; entering into it with all the zeal of an advocate about to plead the dearest interests
of his client.  After he had mastered the subject, Sir William rose up, rubbing his hands with
glee, and said, “Now I am ready for him.”  Sir Robert Peel was made acquainted with the plot,
and adroitly introduced the subject of the controversy after dinner.  The result was, that
in the argument which followed, the man of science was overcome by the man of law; and Sir
William Follett had at all points the mastery over Dr. Buckland.  “What do you say, Mr. Stephenson?”
asked Sir Robert, laughing.  “Why,” said he, “I will only say this, that of all the powers
above and under the earth, there seems to me to be no power so great as the gift of the gab.” {350}

One Sunday, when the party had just returned from church, they were standing together on the
terrace near the Hall, and observed in the distance a railway-train flashing along, tossing
behind its long white plume of steam.  “Now, Buckland,” said Stephenson, “I have a poser for
you.  Can you tell me what is the power that is driving that train?” “Well,” said the other,
“I suppose it is one of your big engines.”  “But what drives the engine?”  “Oh, very likely
a canny Newcastle driver.” “What do you say to the light of the sun?”  “How can that be?” asked
the doctor.  “It is nothing else,” said the engineer, “it is light bottled up in the earth
for tens of thousands of years,—light, absorbed by plants and vegetables, being necessary for
the condensation of carbon during the process of their growth, if it be not carbon in another
form,—and now, after being buried in the earth for long ages in fields of coal, that latent
light is again brought forth and liberated, made to work as in that locomotive, for great human
purposes.”

During the same visit, Mr. Stephenson, one evening repeated his experiment with blood drawn
from the finger, submitting it to the microscope in order to show the curious circulation of
the globules.  He set the example by pricking his own thumb; and the other guests, by turns,
in like manner, gave up a small portion of their blood for the purpose of ascertaining the
comparative livelinesss of their circulation. When Sir Robert Peel’s turn came, Mr. Stephenson
said he was curious to know “how the blood globules of a great politician would conduct themselves.”
Sir Robert held forth his finger for the purpose of being pricked; but once, and again, he
sensitively shrunk back, and at length the experiment, so far as he was concerned, was abandoned.
Sir Robert Peel’s sensitiveness to pain was extreme, and yet he was destined, a few years after,
to die a death of the most distressing agony.

In 1847, the year before his death, Mr. Stephenson was again invited to join a distinguished
party at Drayton Manor, and to assist in the ceremony of formally opening the Trent Valley
Railway, which had been originally designed and laid out by himself many years before.  The
first sod of the railway had been cut by the Prime Minister, in November, 1845, during the
time when Mr. Stephenson was abroad on the business of the Spanish railway.  The formal opening
took place on the 26th June, 1847, the line having thus been constructed in less than two years.

What a change had come over the spirit of the landed gentry since the time when George Stephenson
had first projected a railway through that district!  Then they were up in arms against him,
characterising him as the devastator and spoiler of their estates; now he was hailed as one
of the greatest benefactors of the age.  Sir Robert Peel, the chief political personage in
England, welcomed him as a guest and friend, and spoke of him as the chief among practical
philosophers.  A dozen members of Parliament, seven baronets, with all the landed magnates
of the district, assembled to celebrate the opening of the railway.  The clergy were there
to bless the enterprise, and to bid all hail to railway progress, as “enabling them to carry
on with greater facility those operations in connexion with religion which were calculated
to be so beneficial to the country.”  The army, speaking through the mouth of General A’Court,
acknowledged the vast importance of railways, as tending to improve the military defences of
the country.  And representatives from eight corporations were there to acknowledge the great
benefits which railways had conferred upon the merchants, tradesmen, and working classes of
their respective towns and cities.

In the spring of 1848 Mr. Stephenson was invited to Whittington House, near Chesterfield, the
residence of his friend and former pupil, Mr. Swanwick, to meet the distinguished American,
Emerson.  Upon being introduced, they did not immediately engage in conversation; but presently
Stephenson jumped up, took Emerson by the collar, and giving him one of his friendly shakes,
asked how it was that in England we could always tell an American?  This led to an interesting
conversation, in the course of which Emerson said how much he had been everywhere struck by
the haleness and comeliness of the English men and women; and then they diverged into a further
discussion of the influences which air, climate, moisture, soil, and other conditions exercised
upon the physical and moral development of a people.  The conversation was next directed to
the subject of electricity, upon which Stephenson launched out enthusiastically, explaining
his views by several simple and striking illustrations.  From thence it gradually turned to
the events of his own life, which he related in so graphic a manner as completely to rivet
the attention of the American.  Afterwards Emerson said, “that it was worth crossing the Atlantic
to have seen Stephenson alone; he had such native force of character and vigour of intellect.”

The rest of Mr. Stephenson’s days were spent quietly at Tapton, amongst his dogs, his rabbits,
and his birds.  When not engaged about the works connected with his collieries, he was occupied
in horticulture and farming.  He continued proud of his flowers, his fruits, and his crops;
and the old spirit of competition was still strong within him.  Although he had for some time
been in delicate health, and his hand shook from nervous affection, he appeared to possess
a sound constitution.  Emerson had observed of him that he had the lives of many men in him.
But perhaps the American spoke figuratively, in reference to his vast stores of experience.
It appeared that he had never completely recovered from the attack of pleurisy which seized
him during his return from Spain.  As late, however, as the 26th July, 1848, he felt himself
sufficiently well to be able to attend a meeting of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers at
Birmingham, and to read to the members his paper “On the Fallacies of the Rotatory Engine.”
It was his last appearance before them.  Shortly after his return to Tapton, he had an attack
of intermittent fever, from which he seemed to be recovering, when a sudden effusion of blood
from the lungs carried him off, on the 12th August, 1848, in the sixty-seventh year of his
age.  When all was over, Robert wrote to Edward Pease, “With deep pain I inform you, as one
of his oldest friends, of the death of my dear father this morning at 12 o’clock, after about
ten days’ illness from severe fever.”  Mr. Starbuck, who was also present, wrote, “The favourable
symptoms of yesterday morning were towards evening followed by a serious change for the worse.
This continued during the night, and early this morning it became evident that he was sinking.
At a few minutes before 12 to-day he breathed his last.  All that the most devoted and unremitting
care of Mrs. Stephenson {354} and the skill of medicine could accomplish, has been done, but
in vain.”

George Stephenson’s remains were followed to the grave by a large body of his workpeople, by
whom he was greatly admired and beloved.  They remembered him as a kind master, who was ever
ready actively to promote all measures for their moral, physical, and mental improvement. 
The inhabitants of Chesterfield evinced their respect for the deceased by suspending business,
closing their shops, and joining in the funeral procession, which was headed by the corporation
of the town.  Many of the surrounding gentry also attended.  The body was interred in Trinity
Church, Chesterfield, where a simple tablet marks the great engineer’s last resting-place.

The statue of George Stephenson, which the Liverpool and Manchester and Grand Junction Companies
had commissioned, was on its way to England when his death occurred; and it served for a monument,
though his best monument will always be his works.  The statue referred to was placed in St.
George’s Hall, Liverpool.  A full-length statue of him, by Bailey, was also erected a few years
later, in the noble vestibule of the London and North-Western Station, in Euston Square.  A
subscription for the purpose was set on foot by the Society of Mechanical Engineers, of which
he had been the founder and president.  A few advertisements were inserted in the newspapers,
inviting subscriptions; and it is a notable fact that the voluntary offerings included an average
of two shillings each from 3150 working men, who embraced this opportunity of doing honour
to their distinguished fellow workman.

                 [Picture: Trinity Church, Chesterfield]

But unquestionably the finest and most appropriate statue to the memory of George Stephenson
is that erected in 1862, after the design of John Lough, at Newcastle-upon Tyne.  It is in
the immediate neighbourhood of the Literary and Philosophical Institute, to which both George
and his son Robert were so much indebted in their early years; close to the great Stephenson
locomotive foundry established by the shrewdness of the father; and in the vicinity of the
High Level Bridge, one of the grandest products of the genius of the son.  The head of Stephenson,
as expressed in this noble work, is massive, characteristic, and faithful; and the attitude
of the figure is simple yet manly and energetic.  It stands on a pedestal, at the respective
corners of which are sculptured the recumbent figures of a pitman, a mechanic, an engine-driver,
and a plate-layer. The statue appropriately stands in a very thoroughfare of working-men, thousands
of whom see it daily as they pass to and from their work; and we can imagine them, as they
look up to Stephenson’s manly figure, applying to it the words addressed by Robert Nicoll to
Robert Burns, with perhaps still greater appropriateness:—

    “Before the proudest of the earth
       We stand, with an uplifted brow;
    Like us, thou wast a toiling man,—
       And we are noble, now!”

The portrait prefixed to this volume gives a good indication of George Stephenson’s shrewd,
kind, honest, manly face.  His fair, clear countenance was ruddy, and seemingly glowed with
health.  The forehead was large and high, projecting over the eyes, and there was that massive
breadth across the lower part which is usually observed in men of eminent constructive skill.
The mouth was firmly marked, and shrewdness and humour lurked there as well as in the keen
grey eye.  His frame was compact, well-knit, and rather spare.  His hair became grey at an
early age, and towards the close of his life it was of a pure silky whiteness. He dressed neatly
in black, wearing a white neckcloth; and his face, his person, and his deportment at once arrested
attention, and marked the Gentleman.

George Stephenson bequeathed to his son his valuable collieries, his share in the engine manufactory
at Newcastle, and his large accumulation of savings, which, together with the fortune he had
himself amassed by railway work, gave Robert the position of an engineer millionaire—the first
of his order.  He continued, however, to live in a quiet style; and although he bought occasional
pictures and statues, and indulged in the luxury of a yacht, he did not live up to his income,
which went on rapidly accumulating until his death.

There was no longer the necessity for applying himself to the laborious business of a parliamentary
engineer, in which he had now been occupied for some fifteen years.  Shortly after his father’s
death, Edward Pease strongly recommended him to give up the more harassing work of his profession;
and his reply (15th June, 1850) was as follows:—“The suggestion which your kind note contains
is quite in accordance with my own feelings and intentions respecting retirement; but I find
it a very difficult matter to bring to a close so complicated a connexion in business as that
which has been established by twenty-five years of active and arduous professional duty.  Comparative
retirement is, however, my intention; and I trust that your prayer for the Divine blessing
to grant me happiness and quiet comfort will be fulfilled.  I cannot but feel deeply grateful
to the Great Disposer of events for the success which has hitherto attended my exertions in
life; and I trust that the future will also be marked by a continuance of His mercies.”

Although Robert Stephenson, in conformity with this expressed intention, for the most part
declined to undertake new business, he did not altogether lay aside his harness; and he lived
to repeat his tubular bridges both in Lower Canada and in Egypt.  The success of the tubular
system, as adopted at Menai and Conway, was such as to recommend it for adoption wherever great
span was required; and the peculiar circumstances connected with the navigation of the St.
Lawrence and the Nile, may be said to have compelled its adoption in carrying railways across
those great rivers.

The Victoria Bridge, of which Robert Stephenson was the designer and chief engineer, is, without
exception, the greatest work of the kind in the world.  For gigantic proportions and vast length
and strength there is nothing to compare with it in ancient or modern times.  The entire bridge,
with its approaches, is only about sixty yards short of two miles, being five times longer
than the Britannia across the Menai Straits, seven and a half times longer than Waterloo Bridge,
and more than ten times longer than the new Chelsea Bridge across the Thames!  It has not less
than twenty-four spans of 242 feet each, and one great central span—itself an immense bridge—of
330 feet.  The road is carried within iron tubes 60 feet above the level of the St. Lawrence,
which runs beneath at a speed of about ten miles an hour, and in winter brings down the ice
of two thousand square miles of lakes and rivers, with their numerous tributaries.  The weight
of iron in the tubes is about ten thousand tons, supported on massive piers, which contain,
some six, and others ten thousand tons of solid masonry.

So gigantic a work, involving so heavy an expenditure—about £1,300,000—was not projected without
sufficient cause.  The Grand Trunk Railway of Canada, upwards of 1200 miles in length, traverses
British North America from the shores of the Atlantic to the rich prairie country of the Far
West.  It opens up a vast extent of fertile territory for future immigration, and provides
a ready means for transporting the varied products of the Western States to the seaboard. 
So long as the St. Lawrence was relied upon, the inhabitants along the Great Valley were precluded
from communication with each other for nearly six months of the year, during which the navigation
was closed by the ice.

The Grand Trunk Railway was designed to furnish a line of communication through this great
district at all seasons; following the course of the St. Lawrence along its north bank, and
uniting the principal towns of Canada.  But stopping short on the north shore, it was still
an incomplete work; unconnected, except by a dangerous and often impracticable ferry, with
Montreal, the capital of the province, and shut off from connection with the United States,
as well as with the coast to which the commerce of Canada naturally tends.  Without a bridge
at Montreal, therefore, it was felt that the system of Canadian railway communication would
have been incomplete, and the benefits of the Grand Trunk Railway in a great measure nugatory.

As early as 1846 the construction of a bridge across the St. Lawrence at Montreal was strongly
advocated by the local press for the purpose of directly connecting that city with the then
projected Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railway.  A survey of the bridge was made, and the scheme
was reported to be practicable.  A period of colonial depression, however, intervened, and
although the project was not lost sight of, it was not until 1852, when the Grand Trunk Railway
Company began their operations, that there seemed to be any reasonable prospect of its being
carried out. In that year, Mr. A. M. Ross—who had superintended, under Robert Stephenson, the
construction of the tubular bridge over the Conway—visited Canada, and inspected the site of
the proposed bridge, when he readily arrived at the conclusion that a like structure was suitable
for the crossing of the St. Lawrence.  He returned to England to confer with Robert Stephenson
on the subject, and the result was the plan of the Victoria Bridge, of which Robert Stephenson
was the designer, and Mr. A. M. Ross the joint and resident engineer.

The particular kind of structure to be adopted, however, formed the subject of much preliminary
discussion.  Even after the design of a tubular bridge had been adopted, and the piers were
commenced, the plan was made the subject of severe criticism, on the ground of its alleged
excessive cost.  It therefore became necessary for Mr. Stephenson to vindicate the propriety
of his design in a report to the directors of the railway, in which he satisfactorily proved
that as respected strength, efficiency, and economy, with a view to permanency, the plan of
the Victoria Bridge was unimpeachable.  There were various methods proposed for spanning the
St. Lawrence.  The suspension bridge, such as that over the river Niagara, was found inapplicable
for several reasons, but chiefly because of its defective rigidity, which greatly limited the
speed and weight of the trains, and consequently the amount of traffic which could be passed
over such a bridge.  Thus, taking the length of the Victoria Bridge into account, it was found
that not more than 20 trains could pass within the 24 hours, a number insufficient for the
accommodation of the anticipated traffic.  To introduce such an amount of material into the
suspension bridge as would supply increased rigidity, would only be approximating to the original
beam, and neutralizing any advantages in point of cheapness which might be derivable from this
form of structure, without securing the essential stiffness and strength. Iron arches were
also considered inapplicable, because of the large headway required for the passage of the
ice in winter, and the necessity which existed for keeping the springing of the arches clear
of the water-line.  This would have involved the raising of the entire road, and a largely
increased expenditure on the upper works.  The question was therefore reduced to the consideration
of the kind of horizontal beam or girder to be employed.

Horizontal girders are of three kinds.  The Tubular is constructed of riveted rectangular boiler
plates.  Where the span is large, the road passes within the tube; where the span is comparatively
small, the roadway is supported by two or more rectangular beams.  Next there is the Lattice
girder, borrowed from the loose rough timber bridges of the American engineers, consisting
of a top and bottom flange connected by a number of flat iron bars, riveted across each other
at a certain angle, the roadway resting on the top, or being suspended at the bottom between
the lattice on either side.  Bridges on the same construction are now extensively used for
crossing the broad rivers of India, and are especially designed with a view to their easy transport
and erection. The Trellis or Warren girder is a modification of the same plan, consisting of
a top and bottom flange, with a connecting web of diagonal flat bars, forming a complete system
of triangulation—hence the name of “Triangular girder,” by which it is generally known.  The
merit of this form consists in its comparative rigidity, strength, lightness, and economy of
material These bridges are also extensively employed in spanning the rivers of India.  One
of the best specimens is the Crumlin viaduct, 200 feet high at one point, which spans the river
and valley of the Ebbw near the village of Crumlin in South Wales.  This viaduct is about a
third of a mile long, divided into two parts by a ridge of hills which runs through the centre
of the valley—each part forming a separate viaduct, the one of seven equal spans of 150 feet,
the other of three spans of the same diameter.  The bridge has been very skilfully designed
and constructed, and, by reason of its great dimensions and novel arrangements, is entitled
to be regarded as one of the most remarkable engineering works of the day.

“In calculating the strength of these different classes of girders,” Mr. Stephenson observed,
“one ruling principle appertains, and is common to all of them.  Primarily and essentially,
the ultimate strength is considered to exist in the top and bottom,—the former being exposed
to a compression force by the action of the load, and the latter to a force of tension; therefore,
whatever be the class or denomination of girders, they must all be alike in amount of effective
material in these members, if their spans and depths are the same, and they have to sustain
the same amount of load.  Hence, the question of comparative merit amongst the different classes
of construction of beams or girders is really narrowed to the method of connecting the top
and bottom webs, so called.”  In the tubular system the connexion is effected by continuous
boiler plates riveted together; and in the lattice and trellis bridges by flat iron bars, more
or less numerous, forming a series of struts and ties.  Those engineers who advocate the employment
of the latter form of construction, set forth as its principal advantage the saving of material
which is effected by employing bars instead of iron plates; whereas Mr. Stephenson and his
followers urge, that in point of economy the boiler plate side is equal to the bars, whilst
in point of effective strength and rigidity it is decidedly superior.  To show the comparative
economy of material, he contrasted the lattice girder bridge over the river Trent, on the Great
Northern Railway near Newark, with the tubes of the Victoria Bridge.  In the former case, where
the span is 240½ feet, and the bridge 13 feet wide, the weight including bearings is 292 tons;
in the latter, where the span is 242 feet, the width of the tube 16 feet, the weight including
bearings is 275 tons, showing a balance in favour of the Victoria Tube of 17 tons.  The comparison
between the Newark Dyke Bridge and the Tubular Bridge over the river Aire is equally favourable
to the latter; and no one can have travelled over the Great Northern line to York without noting
that, as respects rigidity under the passing train, the Tubular Bridge is decidedly superior.
It is ascertained that the deflection caused by a passing load is considerably greater in the
former case; and Mr. Stephenson was also of opinion that the sides of all trellis or lattice
girders are useless, except for the purpose of connecting the top and bottom, and keeping them
in their position.  They depend upon their connexion with the top and bottom webs for their
own support; and since they could not sustain their shape, but would collapse immediately on
their being disconnected from their top and bottom members, it is evident that they add to
the strain upon them, and consequently to that extent reduce the ultimate strength of the beams.
“I admit,” he added, “that there is no formula for valuing the solid sides for strains, and
that at present we only ascribe to them the value or use of connecting the top and bottom;
yet we are aware that, from their continuity and solidity, they are of value to resist horizontal
and many other strains, independently of the top and bottom, by which they add very much to
the stiffness of the beam; and the fact of their containing more material than is necessary
to connect the top and bottom webs, has by no means been fairly established.”  Another important
advantage of the Tubular bridge over the Trellis or Lattice structure, consists in its greater
safety in event of a train running off the line,—a contingency which has more than once occurred
on a tubular bridge without detriment, whereas in event of such an accident occurring on a
Trellis or Lattice bridge, it must infallibly be destroyed.  Where the proposed bridge is of
the unusual length of a mile and a quarter, it is obvious that this consideration must have
had no small weight with the directors, who eventually decided on proceeding with the Tubular
Bridge according to Mr. Stephenson’s original design.

From the first projection of the Victoria Bridge, the difficulties of executing such a work
across a wide river, down which an avalanche of ice rushes to the sea every spring, were pronounced
almost insurmountable by those best acquainted with the locality.  The ice of two thousand
miles of inland lakes and upper rivers, besides their tributaries, is then poured down stream,
and, in the neighbourhood of Montreal especially, it is often piled up to the height of from
forty to fifty feet, placing the surrounding country under water, and doing severe damage to
the massive stone buildings along the noble river front of the city.  To resist so prodigious
a pressure, it was necessary that the piers of the proposed bridge should be of the most solid
and massive description.  Their foundations are placed in the solid rock; for none of the artificial
methods of obtaining foundations, suggested by some engineers for cheapness’ sake, were found
practicable in this case.  Where the force exercised against the piers was likely to be so
great, it was felt that timber ice-breakers, timber or cast-iron piling, or even rubble-work,
would have proved but temporary expedients.  The two centre piers are eighteen feet wide, and
the remaining twenty-two piers fifteen feet; to arrest and break the ice, an inclined plane,
composed of great blocks of stone, was added to the up-river side of each pier—each block weighing
from seven to ten tons, and the whole were firmly clamped together with iron rivets.

To convey some idea of the immense force which these piers are required to resist, we may briefly
describe the breaking up of the ice in March, 1858, while the bridge was under construction.
Fourteen out of the twenty-four piers were then finished, together with the formidable abutments
and approaches to the bridge.  The ice in the river began to show signs of weakness on the
29th March, but it was not until the 31st that a general movement became observable, which
continued for an hour, when it suddenly stopped, and the water rose rapidly.  On the following
day, at noon, a grand movement commenced; the waters rose about four feet in two minutes, up
to a level with many of the Montreal streets.  The fields of ice at the same time were suddenly
elevated to an incredible height; and so overwhelming were they in appearance, that crowds
of the townspeople, who had assembled on the quay to watch the progress of the flood, ran for
their lives.  This movement lasted about twenty minutes, during which the jammed ice destroyed
several portions of the quay-wall, grinding the hardest blocks to atoms.  The embanked approaches
to the Victoria Bridge had tremendous forces to resist.  In the full channel of the stream,
the ice in its passage between the piers was broken up by the force of the blow immediately
on its coming in contact with the cutwaters.  Sometimes thick sheets of ice were seen to rise
up and rear on end against the piers, but by the force of the current they were speedily made
to roll over into the stream, and in a moment after were out of sight.  For the two next days
the river was still high, until on the 4th April the waters seemed suddenly to give way, and
by the following day the river was flowing clear and smooth as a millpond, nothing of winter
remaining except the masses of bordage ice which were strewn along the shores of the stream.
On examination of the piers of the bridge, it was found that they had admirably resisted the
tremendous pressure; and though the timber “cribwork” erected to facilitate the placing of
floating pontoons to form the dams, was found considerably disturbed and in some places seriously
damaged, the piers, with the exception of one or two heavy stone blocks, which were still unfinished,
escaped uninjured.  One heavy block of many tons’ weight was carried to a considerable distance,
and must have been torn out of its place by sheer force, as several of the broken fragments
were found left in the pier.

The works in connection with the Victoria Bridge were begun on the 22nd July, 1854, when the
first stone was laid, and continued uninterruptedly during a period of 5½ years, until the
17th December, 1859, when the bridge was finished and taken off the contractor’s hands.  It
was formally opened for traffic early in 1860; though Robert Stephenson did not live to see
its completion.

The tubular system was also applied by the same engineer, in a modified form, in the two bridges
across the Nile, near Damietta in Lower Egypt. That near Benha contains eight spans or openings
of 80 feet each, and two centre spans, formed by one of the largest swing bridges ever constructed,—the
total length of the swing-beam being 157 feet,—a clear water-way of 60 feet being provided
on either side of the centre pier. The only novelty in these bridges consisted in the road
being carried upon the tubes instead of within them; their erection being carried out in the
usual manner, by means of workmen, materials, and plant sent out from England.

During the later years of his life, Mr. Stephenson took considerable interest in public affairs
and in scientific investigations.  In 1847 he entered the House of Commons as member for Whitby;
but he does not seem to have been very devoted in his attendance, and only appeared on divisions
when there was a “whip” of the party to which he belonged.  He was a member of the Sanitary
and Sewage Commissions, and of the Commission which sat on Westminster Bridge.  The last occasions
on which he addressed the House were on the Suez Canal and the cleansing of the Serpentine.
He pronounced the Suez Canal to be an impracticable scheme. “I have surveyed the line,” said
he, “I have travelled the whole distance on foot, and I declare there is no fall between the
two seas.  Honourable members talk about a canal.  A canal is impossible—the thing would only
be a ditch.”

Besides constructing the railway between Alexandria and Cairo, he was consulted, like his father,
by the King of Belgium, as to the railways of that country; and he was made Knight of the Order
of Leopold because of the improvements which he had made in locomotive engines, so much to
the advantage of the Belgian system of inland transit.  He was consulted by the King of Sweden
as to the railway between Christiana and Lake Miösen, and in consideration of his services
was decorated with the Grand Cross of the Order of St. Olaf.  He also visited Switzerland,
Piedmont, and Denmark, to advise as to the system of railway communication best suited for
those countries.  At the Paris Exhibition of 1855 the Emperor of France decorated him with
the Legion of Honour in consideration of his public services; and at home the University of
Oxford made him a Doctor of Civil Laws.  In 1855 he was elected President of the Institute
of Civil Engineers, which office he held with honour and filled with distinguished ability
for two years, giving place to his friend Mr. Locke at the end of 1857.

Mr. Stephenson was frequently called upon to act as arbitrator between contractors and railway
companies, or between one company and another,—great value being attached to his opinion on
account of his weighty judgment, his great experience, and his upright character, and we believe
his decisions were invariably stamped by the qualities of impartiality and justice.  He was
always ready to lend a helping hand to a friend, and no petty jealousy stood between him and
his rivals in the engineering world.  The author remembers being with Mr. Stephenson one evening
at his house in Gloucester Square, when a note was put into his hands from his friend Brunel,
then engaged in his first fruitless efforts to launch the Great Eastern.  It was to ask Stephenson
to come down to Blackwall early next morning, and give him the benefit of his judgment. Shortly
after six next morning Stephenson was in Scott Russell’s building-yard, and he remained there
until dusk.  About midday, while superintending the launching operations, the baulk of timber
on which he stood canted up, and he fell up to his middle in the Thames mud.  He was dressed
as usual, without great-coat (though the day was bitter cold), and with only thin boots upon
his feet.  He was urged to leave the yard, and change his dress, or at least dry himself; but
with his usual disregard of health, he replied, “Oh, never mind me—I’m quite used to this sort
of thing;” and he went paddling about in the mud, smoking his cigar, until almost dark, when
the day’s work was brought to an end.  The result of this exposure was an attack of inflammation
of the lungs, which kept him to his bed for a fortnight.

He was habitually careless of his health, and perhaps he indulged in narcotics to a prejudicial
extent.  Hence he often became “hipped” and sometimes ill.  When Mr. Sopwith accompanied him
to Egypt in the Titania, in 1856, he succeeded in persuading Mr. Stephenson to limit his indulgence
in cigars and stimulants, and the consequence was that by the end of the voyage he felt himself,
as he said, “quite a new man.” Arrived at Marseilles, he telegraphed from thence a message
to Great George Street, prescribing certain stringent and salutary rules for observance in
the office there on his return.  But he was of a facile, social disposition, and the old associations
proved too strong for him. When he sailed for Norway, in the autumn of 1859, though then ailing
in health, he looked a man who had still plenty of life in him.  By the time he returned, his
fatal illness had seized him.  He was attacked by congestion of the liver, which first developed
itself in jaundice, and then ran into dropsy, of which he died on the 12th October, in the
fifty-sixth year of his age. {368}  He was buried by the side of Telford in Westminster Abbey,
amidst the departed great men of his country, and was attended to his resting-place by many
of the intimate friends of his boyhood and his manhood.  Among those who assembled round his
grave were some of the greatest men of thought and action in England, who embraced the sad
occasion to pay the last mark of their respect to this illustrious son of one of England’s
greatest working men.

     [Picture: Robert Stephenson’s Burial-place in Westminster Abbey]

It would be out of keeping with the subject thus drawn to a conclusion, to pronounce any panegyric
on the character and achievements of George and Robert Stephenson.  These for the most part
speak for themselves. Both were emphatically true men, exhibiting in their lives many sterling
qualities.  No beginning could have been less promising than that of the elder Stephenson.
Born in a poor condition, yet rich in spirit, he was from the first compelled to rely upon
himself; and every step of advance which he made was conquered by patient labour.  Whether
working as a brakesman or an engineer, his mind was always full of the work in hand. He gave
himself thoroughly up to it.  Like the painter, he might say that he had become great “by neglecting
nothing.”  Whatever he was engaged upon, he was as careful of the details as if each were itself
the whole. He did all thoroughly and honestly.  There was no “scamping” with him. When a workman
he put his brains and labour into his work; and when a master he put his conscience and character
into it.  He would have no slop-work executed merely for the sake of profit.  The materials
must be as genuine as the workmanship was skilful.  The structures which he designed and executed
were distinguished for their thoroughness and solidity; his locomotives were famous for their
durability and excellent working qualities.  The engines which he sent to the United States
in 1832 are still in good condition; and even the engines built by him for the Killingworth
Colliery, upwards of thirty years ago, are working steadily there to this day.  All his work
was honest, representing the actual character of the man.

He was ready to turn his hand to anything—shoes and clocks, railways and locomotives.  He contrived
his safety-lamp with the object of saving pitmen’s lives, and perilled his own life in testing
it.  Whatever work was nearest him, he turned to and did it.  With him to resolve was to do.
Many men knew far more than he; but none were more ready forthwith to apply what he did know
to practical purposes.  It was while working at Willington as a brakes-man, that he first learnt
how best to handle a spade in throwing ballast out of the ships’ holds.  This casual employment
seems to have left upon his mind the strongest impression of what “hard work” was; and he often
used to revert to it, and say to the young men about him, “Ah, ye lads! there’s none o’ ye
know what wark is.”  Mr. Gooch says he was proud of the dexterity in handling a spade which
he had thus acquired, and that he has frequently seen him take the shovel from a labourer in
some railway cutting, and show him how to use it more deftly in filling waggons of earth, gravel,
or sand.  Sir Joshua Walmsley has also informed us, that, when examining the works of the Orleans
and Tours Railway, Mr. Stephenson, seeing a large number of excavators filling and wheeling
sand in a cutting, at a great waste of time and labour, went up to the men and said he would
show them how to fill their barrows in half the time.  He showed them the proper position in
which to stand so as to exercise the greatest amount of power with the least expenditure of
strength; and he filled the barrow with comparative ease again and again in their presence,
to the great delight of the workmen.  When passing through his own workshops, he would point
out to his men how to save labour, and to get through their work skilfully and with ease. 
His energy imparted itself to others, quickening and influencing them as strong characters
always do—flowing down into theirs, and bringing out their best powers.

His deportment towards the workmen employed under him was familiar, yet firm and consistent.
As he respected their manhood, so did they respect his masterhood.  Although he comported himself
towards his men as if they occupied very much the same level as himself, he yet possessed that
peculiar capacity for governing which enabled him always to preserve among them the strictest
discipline, and to secure their cheerful and hearty services.  Mr. Ingham, M.P. for South Shields,
on going over the workshops at Newcastle, was particularly struck with this quality of the
master in his bearing towards his men.  “There was nothing,” said he, “of undue familiarity
in their intercourse, but they spoke to each other as man to man; and nothing seemed to please
the master more than to point out illustrations of the ingenuity of his artisans.  He took
up a rivet, and expatiated on the skill with which it had been fashioned by the workman’s hand—its
perfectness and truth.  He was always proud of his workmen and his pupils; and, while indifferent
and careless as to what might be said of himself, he fired up in a moment if disparagement
were thrown upon any one whom he had taught or trained.”

In manner, George Stephenson was simple, modest, and unassuming, but always manly.  He was
frank and social in spirit.  When a humble workman, he had carefully preserved his sense of
self-respect.  His companions looked up to him, and his example was worth even more to many
of them than books or schools.  His devoted love of knowledge made his poverty respectable,
and adorned his humble calling.  When he rose to a more elevated station, and associated with
men of the highest position and influence in Britain, he took his place amongst them with perfect
self-possession.  They wondered at the quiet ease and simple dignity of his deportment; and
men in the best ranks of life have said of him that “He was one of Nature’s gentlemen.”

Probably no military chiefs were ever more beloved by their soldiers than were both father
and son by the army of men who, under their guidance, worked at labours of profit, made labours
of love by their earnest will and purpose.  True leaders of men and lords of industry, they
were always ready to recognise and encourage talent in those who worked for and with them.
Thus it was pleasant, at the openings of the Stephenson lines, to hear the chief engineers
attributing the successful completion of the works to their able assistants; whilst the assistants,
on the other hand, ascribed the glory to their chiefs.

Mr. Stephenson, though a thrifty and frugal man, was essentially unsordid.  His rugged path
in early life made him careful of his resources.  He never saved to hoard, but saved for a
purpose, such as the maintenance of his parents or the education of his son.  In later years
he became a prosperous and even a wealthy man; but riches never closed his heart, nor stole
away the elasticity of his soul.  He enjoyed life cheerfully, because hopefully.  When he entered
upon a commercial enterprise, whether for others or for himself, he looked carefully at the
ways and means.  Unless they would “pay,” he held back.  “He would have nothing to do,” he
declared, “with stock-jobbing speculations.”  His refusal to sell his name to the schemes of
the railway mania—his survey of the Spanish lines without remuneration—his offer to postpone
his claim for payment from a poor company until their affairs became more prosperous—are instances
of the unsordid spirit in which he acted.

Another marked feature in Mr. Stephenson’s character was his patience. Notwithstanding the
strength of his convictions as to the great uses to which the locomotive might be applied,
he waited long and patiently for the opportunity of bringing it into notice; and for years
after he had completed an efficient engine he went on quietly devoting himself to the ordinary
work of the colliery.  He made no noise nor stir about his locomotive, but allowed another
to take credit for the experiments on velocity and friction made with it by himself upon the
Killingworth railroad.

By patient industry and laborious contrivance, he was enabled, with the powerful help of his
son, to do for the locomotive what James Watt had done for the condensing engine.  He found
it clumsy and inefficient; and he made it powerful, efficient, and useful.  Both have been
described as the improvers of their respective engines; but, as to all that is admirable in
their structure or vast in their utility, they are rather entitled to be described as their
Inventors.  While the invention of Watt increased the power, and at the same time so regulated
the action of the steam-engine, as to make it capable of being applied alike to the hardest
work and to the finest manufactures, the invention of Stephenson gave an effective power to
the locomotive, which enabled it to perform the work of teams of the most powerful horses,
and to outstrip the speed of the fleetest.  Watt’s invention exercised a wonderfully quickening
influence on every branch of industry, and multiplied a thousand-fold the amount of manufactured
productions; and Stephenson’s enabled these to be distributed with an economy and despatch
such as had never before been thought possible.  They have both tended to increase indefinitely
the mass of human comforts and enjoyments, and to render them cheap and accessible to all.
But Stephenson’s invention, by the influence which it is daily exercising upon the civilisation
of the world, is even more remarkable than that of Watt, and is calculated to have still more
important consequences.  In this respect, it is to be regarded as the grandest application
of steam power that has yet been discovered.

The Locomotive, like the condensing engine, exhibits the realisation of various capital, but
wholly distinct, ideas, promulgated by many ingenious inventors.  Stephenson, like Watt, exhibited
a power of selection, combination, and invention of his own, by which—while availing himself
of all that had been done before him, and superadding the many skilful contrivances devised
by himself—he was at length enabled to bring his engine into a condition of marvellous power
and efficiency.  He gathered together the scattered threads of ingenuity which already existed,
and combined them into one firm and complete fabric of his own. He realised the plans which
others had imperfectly formed; and was the first to construct, what so many others had unsuccessfully
attempted, the practical and economical working locomotive.

Mr. Stephenson’s close and accurate observation provided him with a fulness of information
on many subjects, which often appeared surprising to those who had devoted to them a special
study.  On one occasion the accuracy of his knowledge of birds came out in a curious way at
a convivial meeting of railway men in London.  The engineers and railway directors present
knew each other as railway men and nothing more.  The talk had been all of railways and railway
politics.  Mr. Stephenson was a great talker on those subjects, and was generally allowed,
from the interest of his conversation and the extent of his experience, to take the lead. 
At length one of the party broke in with “Come now, Stephenson, we have had nothing but railways;
cannot we have a change and try if we can talk a little about something else?”  “Well,” said
Mr. Stephenson, “I’ll give you a wide range of subjects; what shall it be about?”  “Say birds’
nests!” rejoined the other, who prided himself on his special knowledge of this subject.  “Then
birds’ nests be it.”  A long and animated conversation ensued: the bird-nesting of his boyhood,
the blackbird’s nest which his father had held him up in his arms to look at when a child at
Wylam, the hedges in which he had found the thrush’s and the linnet’s nests, the mossy bank
where the robin built, the cleft in the branch of the young tree where the chaffinch had reared
its dwelling—all rose up clear in his mind’s eye, and led him back to the scenes of his boyhood
at Callerton and Dewley Burn.  The colour and number of the bird’s eggs, the period of their
incubation, the materials employed by them for the walls and lining of their nests, were described
by him so vividly, and illustrated by such graphic anecdotes, that one of the party remarked
that, if George Stephenson had not been the greatest engineer of his day, he might have been
one of the greatest naturalists.

His powers of conversation were very great.  He was so thoughtful, so original, and so suggestive.
There was scarcely a department of science on which he had not formed some novel and sometimes
daring theory.  Thus Mr. Gooch, his pupil, who lived with him when at Liverpool, informs us
that when sitting over the fire, he would frequently broach his favourite theory of the sun’s
light and heat being the original source of the light and heat given forth by the burning coal.
“It fed the plants of which that coal is made,” he would say, “and has been bottled up in the
earth ever since, to be given out again now for the use of man.”  His son Robert once said
of him, “My father flashed his bull’s eye full upon a subject, and brought it out in its most
vivid light in an instant: his strong common sense, and his varied experience operating upon
a thoughtful mind, were his most powerful illuminators.”

Mr. Stephenson had once a conversation with a watchmaker, whom he astonished by the extent
and minuteness of his knowledge as to the parts of a watch.  The watchmaker knew him to be
an eminent engineer, and asked him how he had acquired so extensive a knowledge of a branch
of business so much out of his sphere.  “It is very easy to be explained,” said Mr. Stephenson;
“I worked long at watch-cleaning myself, and when I was at a loss, I was never ashamed to ask
for information.”

Towards the close of his life he frequently went down to Newcastle, and visited the scenes
of his boyhood.  “I have been to Callerton,” said he one day to a friend, “and seen the fields
in which I used to pull turnips at twopence a day; and many a cold finger, I can tell you, I had.”

His hand was open to his former fellow-workmen whom old age had left in poverty.  To poor Robert
Gray, of Newburn, who acted as his bridesman on his marriage to Fanny Henderson, he left a
pension for life.  He would slip a five-pound note into the hand of a poor man or a widow in
such a way as not to offend their delicacy, but to make them feel as if the obligation were
all on his side.  When Farmer Paterson, who married a sister of George’s first wife, Fanny
Henderson, died and left a large young family fatherless, poverty stared them in the face.
“But ye ken,” said our informant, “George struck in fayther for them.”  And perhaps the providential
character of the act could not have been more graphically expressed than in these simple words.

On his visit to Newcastle, he would frequently meet the friends of his early days, occupying
very nearly the same station, whilst he had meanwhile risen to almost world-wide fame.  But
he was no less hearty in his greeting of them than if their relative position had continued
the same.  Thus, one day, after shaking hands with Mr. Brandling on alighting from his carriage,
he proceeded to shake hands with his coachman, Anthony Wigham, a still older friend, though
he only sat on the box.

Robert Stephenson inherited his father’s kindly spirit and benevolent disposition.  He almost
worshipped his father’s memory, and was ever ready to attribute to him the chief merit of his
own achievements as an engineer.  “It was his thorough training,” we once heard him say, “his
example, and his character, which made me the man I am.”  On a more public occasion he said,
“It is my great pride to remember, that whatever may have been done, and however extensive
may have been my own connection with railway development, all I know and all I have done is
primarily due to the parent whose memory I cherish and revere.” {377}  To Mr. Lough, the sculptor,
he said he had never had but two loves—one for his father, the other for his wife.

Like his father, he was eminently practical, and yet always open to the influence and guidance
of correct theory.  His main consideration in laying out his lines of railway was what would
best answer the intended purpose, or, to use his own words, to secure the maximum of result
with the minimum of means.  He was pre-eminently a safe man, because cautious, tentative, and
experimental; following closely the lines of conduct trodden by his father, and often quoting
his maxims.

In society Robert Stephenson was simple, unobtrusive, and modest; but charming and even fascinating
in an eminent degree.  Sir John Lawrence has said of him that he was, of all others, the man
he most delighted to meet in England—he was so manly, yet gentle, and withal so great.  While
admired and beloved by men of such calibre, he was equally a favourite with women and children.
He put himself upon the level of all, and charmed them no less by his inexpressible kindliness
of manner than by his simple yet impressive conversation.

His great wealth enabled him to perform many generous acts in a right noble and yet modest
manner, not letting his right hand know what his left hand did.  Of the numerous kindly acts
of his which have been made public, we may mention the graceful manner in which he repaid the
obligations which both himself and his father owed to the Newcastle Literary and Philosophical
Institute, when working together as humble experimenters in their cottage at Killingworth.
The Institute was struggling under a debt of £6200 which seriously impaired its usefulness
as an educational agency.  Robert Stephenson offered to pay one-half of the sum, provided the
local supporters of the Institute would raise the remainder; and conditional also on the annual
subscription being reduced from two guineas to one, in order that the usefulness of the institution
might be extended.  The generous offer was accepted, and the debt extinguished.

Both father and son were offered knighthood, and both declined it. During the summer of 1847,
George Stephenson was invited to offer himself as a candidate for the representation of South
Shields in Parliament. But his politics were at best of a very undefined sort; indeed his life
had been so much occupied with subjects of a practical character, that he had scarcely troubled
himself to form any decided opinion on the party political topics of the day, and to stand
the cross fire of the electors on the hustings might have been found an even more distressing
ordeal than the cross-questioning of the barristers in the Committees of the House of Commons.
“Politics,” he used to say, “are all matters of theory—there is no stability in them: they
shift about like the sands of the sea: and I should feel quite out of my element amongst them.”
He had accordingly the good sense respectfully to decline the honour of contesting the representation
of South Shields.

We have, however, been informed by Sir Joseph Paxton, that although George Stephenson held
no strong opinions on political questions generally, there was one question on which he entertained
a decided conviction, and that was the question of Free-trade.  The words used by him on one
occasion to Sir Joseph were very strong.  “England,” said he, “is, and must be a shopkeeper;
and our docks and harbours are only so many wholesale shops, the doors of which should always
be kept wide open.”  It is curious that his son Robert should have taken precisely the opposite
view of this question, and acted throughout with the most rigid party amongst the protectionists,
supporting the Navigation Laws and opposing Free Trade.

But Robert Stephenson will be judged in after times by his achievements as an engineer, rather
than by his acts as a politician; and happily these last were far outweighed in value by the
immense practical services which he rendered to trade, commerce, and civilisation, through
the facilities which the railways constructed by him afforded for free intercommunication between
men in all parts of the world.  Speaking in the midst of his friends at Newcastle, in 1850,
he observed:—

“It seems to me but as yesterday that I was engaged as an assistant in laying out the Stockton
and Darlington Railway.  Since then, the Liverpool and Manchester and a hundred other great
works have sprung into existence.  As I look back upon these stupendous undertakings, accomplished
in so short a time, it seems as though we had realised in our generation the fabled powers
of the magician’s wand.  Hills have been cut down and valleys filled up; and when these simple
expedients have not sufficed, high and magnificent viaducts have been raised, and if mountains
stood in the way, tunnels of unexampled magnitude have pierced them through, bearing their
triumphant attestation to the indomitable energy of the nation, and the unrivalled skill of
our artisans.”

As respects the immense advantages of railways to mankind, there cannot be two opinions.  They
exhibit, probably, the grandest organisation of capital and labour that the world has yet seen.
Although they have unhappily occasioned great loss to many, the loss has been that of individuals;
whilst, as a national system, the gain has already been enormous.  As tending to multiply and
spread abroad the conveniences of life, opening up new fields of industry, bringing nations
nearer to each other, and thus promoting the great ends of civilisation, the founding of the
railway system by George Stephenson and his son must be regarded as one of the most important
events, if not the very greatest, in the first half of this nineteenth century.

       [Picture: The Stephenson Memorial Schools, Willington Quay]

INDEX.

ACCIDENTS in coal-mines, 89, 119.

Adam, Mr., counsel for Liverpool and Manchester Railway, 160, 166.

Alderson, Mr. (afterwards Baron), 160, 163, 165, 168.

Alton Grange, G. Stephenson’s residence at, 234–6, 263.

Ambergate Railway slip, 259; Lime-works, 278.

Anna, Santa, mines at, 196.

Arnold, Dr., on Railways, 273.

Ashby-de-la-Zouch, 233.

Atmospheric Railway system, 286, 308.

                                * * * * *

BEAUMONT, Mr., his wooden waggon-ways, 5.

Belgium, G. Stephenson’s visit to, 296.

Benton Colliery and village, 44, 47, 51, 61.

Berwick Royal Border Bridge, 311.

Birds and bird-nesting, 15, 17, 25, 58, 353, 375.

Birmingham and Derby Railway, 268.

Bishop Auckland coal-field, 123.

Black Callerton, 18, 26, 29, 32.

Blackett, Mr., Wylam, 13, 74.

Blast, invention of the Steam, 85, 208, 211.

Blenkinsop’s Locomotive, 72, 80.

Blisworth Cutting, 243.

Boiler, multi-tubular, 210.

Booth, Henry, Liverpool, 210, 222.

Bradshaw, Mr., opposes Liverpool and Manchester line, 155.

Braithwaite, Isaac, Locomotive, 214, 230.

Brakeing coal-engine, 27, 36, 40.

Brandling, Messrs., 105, 312.

Brandreth’s Locomotive, “Cycloped,” 214.

Bridges, Railway, on Liverpool line, 185;
      improved bridges, 310–19;
      tubular bridges, 326–40, 360.

Bridgewater Canal monopoly, 147, 157.

Britannia Tubular Bridge, 339.

British Association Meeting at Newcastle, 279.

Brougham, Mr. William, counsel on Liverpool and Manchester Bill, 158, 160.

Bruce’s School, Newcastle, 53, 59.

Brunel, I. K., 230, 304, 367.

Brunton’s Locomotive, 73.

Brussels, railway celebrations at, 267.

Brusselton incline, 135.

Buckland, Dr., 350.

Bullbridge, Ambergate, 260.

Burstall’s Locomotive, “Perseverance,” 214, 218.

                                * * * * *

CALLERTON Colliery and village, 18, 26, 29, 32.

Canal opposition to Railways, 146, 157, 238.

Cartagena, R. Stephenson at, 200.

Chapman’s Locomotive, 73.

Characteristics of the Stephensons, 368–80.

Chat Moss, William James’s attempted Survey, 151;
     Mr. Harrison’s speech, 166;
      evidence of Francis Giles, C.E., 167;
      Mr. Alderson’s speech, 168;
      description of, 174;
      construction of Railway over, 177.

Chester and Birkenhead Railway, 286.

Chester and Holyhead Railway, 320.

Chesterfield, 279, 283.

Clanny, Dr., his safety-lamp, 92.

Clark, Edwin, C.E., 331, 335, 338.

Clay Cross Colliery, G. Stephenson leases, 277.

Clegg and Samuda’s Atmospheric Railway, 287.

Clephan, Mr., description of first railway traffic, 140.

Cleveland, Duke of, and Stockton and Darlington Railway, 125.

Clock-mending and cleaning, 35, 51, 345.

Coach, first railway, 139.

Coal trade, 3, 11;
      staiths, 10;
      haulage, early expedients for, 5, 7, 63, 143;
      traffic by Railway, 138, 276;
      mining, George Stephenson’s adventures in, 234, 277;
      theory of formation of, 351.

Coalbrookdale, rails early cast at, 6.

Coe, Wm., fellow workman of G. Stephenson, 21, 26, 31.

Coffin, Sir I., 172.

Colliery districts, 1–4;
      machinery and workmen, 7–11.

Colombia, mining association of, 193;
      Robert Stephenson’s residence in, 196.

Contractors, railway, 229, 249.

Conway, tubular bridge at, 334.

Cooper, Sir Astley, Robert Stephenson’s interview with, 238.

Crich Lime-works, Ambergate, 278.

Cropper, Isaac, Liverpool, 187, 217.

Cugnot’s steam-carriage, 64–6.

Curr, John, his cast-iron Railway at Sheffield, 6.

Cuttings, railway,
      Tring, 242;
      Blisworth, 243;
      Ambergate, 259;
      Oakenshaw and Normanton, 259.

“Cycloped” Locomotive, 214.

                                * * * * *

DARLINGTON and Stockton Railway, 123, 136.

Davy, Sir Humphry,
      his description of Trevithick’s steam-carriage, 68;
      his paper on fire-damp in mines, 92;
      his safety-lamp, 101–3;
      testimonial, 104.

Denman, Lord, 345.

Derby, Earl of, 172.

Dewley Burn Colliery, 16.

Direct lines, mania for, 292.

Dixon, John, C.E.,
      assists in survey of Stockton and Darlington line, 136;
      assistant engineer, Liverpool and Manchester Railway, 175–9.

Dodds, Ralph, Killingworth, 42–4, 50, 86.

Drayton Manor, George Stephenson’s visit to, 349.

Dutton Viaduct, 254.

Durham, Earl of, See Lambton.

                                * * * * *

EAST COAST Railway to Scotland, 306–9.

Edgworth, Mr.,
      sailing-waggons, 63;
      advocacy of Railways, 148.

Edinburgh University, Robert Stephenson at, 121.

Education,
      George Stephenson’s self-education, 24, 47;
      Robert Stephenson’s, 50, 121;
      George Stephenson’s ideas of, 191, 281.

Egg-hatching by artificial heat, 23, 344.

Egyptian Tubular Bridges, Robert Stephenson’s, 357.

Emerson, George Stephenson’s meeting with, 353.

Emigration, George Stephenson contemplates, 40, 116.

Engine, study of, 22, 62, 78, 80.

Ericsson, Mr., engineer, 204, 214.

Estimates, railway, 165, 249.

“Experiment,” the first railway coach, 139.

Explosion of fire-damp, 89.

Evans’s steam-carriage, 65.

                                * * * * *

FAIRBAIRN, Wm., C.E., 28;
      at Percy Main Colliery, 34;
      experiments on iron tubes, 328–30.

Fire-damp, explosions of, 89.

Fixed-engine power, 118, 129, 135, 203, 205.

Floating road, Chat Moss, 176.

Floating Conway and Britannia Tubes, 332.

Follett, Sir Wm., 350.

Forth-street Works, Newcastle, 132, 193.

Foster, Jonathan, Wylam. 75, 77, 80, 310.

Franklin’s lightning experiment repeated by Robert Stephenson, 56.

Free trade, George Stephenson’s views on, 379.

Friction on common roads and Railways, 113.

                                * * * * *

GARDENING, George Stephenson’s pursuits in, 58, 342.

Gateshead, 4, 314.

Gauge of Railways, 134, 304.

“Geordy” safety-lamp, invention of, 93.

Giles, Francis, C.E., 167, 174, 230.

Gooch, F. L., C.E., 188, 190, 220, 336, 371.

Gradients, George Stephenson’s views on, 115, 284.

Grand Allies, Killingworth, 41, 46.
      ,,        Junction Railway, 230, 253.
      ,,        Trunk Railway, Canada, 359.

Gray, Robert, 24, 36, 376.

Gray, Thomas, 148.

Great Western Railway, 230, 232, 304.

                                * * * * *

HACKWORTH, Timothy, his engine “Sanspareil,” 214, 216, 218.

Half-lap joint, G. Stephenson’s, 111.

Harrison, Mr., barrister, 160, 166.

Hawthorn, Robert, C.E., 22.

Heating surface in Locomotives, 208, 209.

Hedley, William, Wylam, 77.

Henderson, Fanny, 32.

Heppel, Kit, 42, 45.

Hetton Railway, 117.

High Level Bridge, Newcastle, 2, 312.
      ,,     Street House, Wylam, 14.

Holyhead, Railway to, 320.

Howick, Lord, and the Northumberland Atmospheric Railway, 307, 309.

Hudson, George, the Railway King, 291, 312.

Huskisson, Mr., M.P.,
      and the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, 172;
      killed at its opening, 223.

Hydraulic presses at the Britannia Bridge, 237.

                                * * * * *

INCLINES, self-acting, 9, 61.

Iron railway bridges, 312, 325.

                                * * * * *

JAMES, William,
      surveys a line between Liverpool and Manchester, 150;
      visits Killingworth, 151;
      superseded by George Stephenson, 154.

Jameson, Professor, Edinburgh, 122.

Jessop, William, C.E., 6.

Jolly’s Close, Newburn, 20, 24.

Jones, Rees, on Trevithick’s Locomotive, 71.

                                * * * * *

KEELMEN of the Tyne, 10–11.

Killingworth,
      West Moor, 31, 36, 38, 40;
      High Pit, 41;
      colliery explosions and mining, 89;
      Locomotive, 84, 88;
      the underground machinery, 109.

Kilsby Tunnel, 245.

                                * * * * *

LAMBTON, Mr. (Earl of Durham), 137.

Lamp, safety, invention of, 93.

Last-making competition, 59.

Lardner, Dr., and Railways, 284, 286.

Lattice Girder Bridges, 361.

Leeds Mechanics’ Institute, George Stephenson’s Speech at, 281.

Leicester and Swannington Railway, 232.

Lemington Coal-staith, 74.

Leopold, King of the Belgians, and Railways, 266;
      George Stephenson’s interviews with, 268, 296.

Level Railways, advantages of, 115, 284.

Liddell, Sir T. (Lord Ravensworth), 46, 62.

Lime-works at Ambergate, George Stephenson’s, 278.

Literary and Philosophical Institute, Newcastle, 53, 102, 280, 378.

Littleborough Tunnel, 255.

Liverpool and Manchester Railway projected, 147;
      surveyed by Wm. James, 150;
      the survey opposed, 151;
      George Stephenson engaged, 154;
      prospectus issued, 155;
      deputations visit Killingworth, 151, 154–5;
      opposition of the land-owners and canal companies, 156–7;
      the bill in committee, 160;
      rejected, 169;
      scheme prosecuted, 170;
      Messrs. Rennie appointed engineers, 171;
      the bill passed, 172;
      George Stephenson again engaged as engineer, 173;
      construction of the line across Chat Moss, 176;
      discussions as to the working power to be employed, 203;
      George Stephenson advocates the Locomotive, 201;
      prize of £500 for best engine, 207;
      won by Stephenson’s “Rocket,” 218;
      public opening of the line, 222;
      results of the traffic, 228.

Locke, Mr. Joseph, C.E., 26, 175, 367.

“Locomotion” engine, No. I, Darlington, 135, 142.

Locomotive engine, invention of, 7;
      Robison and Watt’s idea, Cugnot’s steam-carriage, 64;
      Evans and Symington’s, 65;
      Murdock’s model, 66;
      Trevithick’s steam-carriage, 67;
      his tram engine, 69, 74;
      Blenkinsop’s engine, 72;
      Chapman and Brunton’s engines, 73;
      Blackett’s Wylam engine, 74;
      Kenton and Coxlodge engine, 80;
      Stephenson’s Killingworth locomotive, 81, 86;
      Stockton and Darlington locomotives, 135;
      prize at Liverpool for the best engine, 207;
      won by the “Rocket,” 218;
      the “Arrow,” 222;
      further improvements, 226.

Locomotive manufactory, Stephenson’s, at Newcastle, 132, 193, 199, 310.

Long Benton. See Benton.

London and Birmingham Railway projected, 237;
      the Stephensons appointed engineers, 238;
      opposition to the Bill, Sir Astley Cooper, 239;
      the Bill rejected, 240;
      Bill passed, 241;
      the works, 242;
      Tring Cutting, 244;
      Blisworth Cutting, 243;
      Primrose Hill Tunnel, 244;
      Kilsby Tunnel, 245;
      magnitude of the works, 249.

Losh, Mr., Newcastle, 111, 152.

Lough’s statue of George Stephenson, 355.

                                * * * * *

MANCHESTER and Leeds Railway 254;
      the Act obtained, 255;
      construction of summit tunnel, 256;
      magnitude of the works, 257.

Manchester, trade with Liverpool, increase of, 146, 154.

Mania, the Railway, 288.

Maps, Newcastle district, 2;
      Stockton and Darlington Railway, 123;
      Liverpool and Manchester Railway, 150;
      Leicester and Swannington Railway, 233;
      London and Birmingham Railway, 242;
      Menai Strait, 325.

Mariquita, Robert Stephenson at, 196.

Mechanical Engineers, Society of, 353.

Mechanics’ Institutes, George Stephenson’s interest in, 280.

Menai Suspension Bridge, 320;
      Railway Bridge, 331.

Merstham Tram-road, 153.

Microscope, George Stephenson’s, 346.

Middlesborough-on-Tees, 144.

Middleton Railway, Leeds, 72, 148.

Midland Railway, 257.

Militia, G. Stephenson, drawn for, 40.

Mining, coal, 3, 7, 92;
      in South America, 197.

Montrose, G. Stephenson at, 38.

Moodie, underviewer at Killingworth, 94–7, 119.

Morecambe Bay, proposed reclamation of, 262.

Morton-on-the-Marsh Railway, 153.

Multitubular boiler, 208.

Murdock’s model Locomotive, 66.

Murray, Mathew, Leeds, 72.

                                * * * * *

NASMYTH’S steam hammer, 312, 316.

Navvies, railway, 250–52.

Nelson, the fighting pitman 29.

Newburn Colliery, 20, 22.

Newcastle and Berwick Railway, 306.
   ,,   and Carlisle Railway, 12, 203.
   ,,   and Darlington Railway, 306.

Newcastle-on-Tyne in ancient times, 1–3;
      Literary and Philosophical Institute, 378;
      Stephenson, jubilees at, 206, 310;
      High Level Bridge, 312;
      George Stephenson’s statue, 354.

Newcomen’s atmospheric engine, 8, 41.

Nile, R. Stephenson’s tubular bridges over, 357.

North Midland Railway, 257, 261.

North, Roger, description of early tram-roads, 5.

Northampton, opposition of to Railways, 232.

Northumberland Atmospheric Railway, 337.

“Novelty,” Locomotive, 214, 216, 218, 230.

                                * * * * *

OLIVE MOUNT Cutting, Liverpool, 185.

Openings of Railways,
      Hetton, 118;
      Stockton and Darlington, 136;
      Middlesborough, 143;
      Liverpool and Manchester, 222;
      London and Birmingham, 268;
      Birmingham and Derby, 268;
      East Coast route to Scotland, 319;
      Britannia Bridge, 339;
      Trent Valley, 352.

Organization of labour, G. Stephenson’s, 182, 222, 225.

Outram, Benj., Little Eaton, 6.

                                * * * * *

PARLIAMENT and Railways, 292, 294.

Parr Moss, Railway across, 181.

Passenger traffic of early Railways, 138, 156, 160.

Paxton, Sir Joseph, 378.

Pease, Edward,
      projects the Stockton and Darlington Railway, 123;
      first interview with George Stephenson, 156;
      visits Killingworth, 129;
      joins Stephenson in Locomotive Manufactory, 132, 199, 202;
      Stephenson’s esteem and gratitude, 145;
      letters to Robert Stephenson, 199, 253, 357.

Peel, Sir Robert, 224, 293.

Penmaen Mawr, Railway under, 321.

Permanent way of Railroads, 110.

Perpetual motion, George Stephenson studies, 34, 48.

“Perseverance.” Burstall’s Locomotive, 214, 218.

Phillips, Sir R., speculations on Railways, 148.

Pile-driving by steam, 312, 316.

Pitmen, Northumbrian, 8.

“Planet” Locomotive, 229.

Plugman, duties of, 22.

Politics, George and Robert Stephenson’s, 378–9.

Primrose Hill Tunnel, 244.

Prophecies of railway failure, 158, 166, 172.

Pumping-engines, George Stephenson’s skill in, 38, 41, 44, 247.

Pupils, George Stephenson’s, 190–2, 269.

Pyrenean Pastoral, 298.

                                * * * * *

‘QUARTERLY,’ the, on railway speed, 159.

Queen, the, her first use of the Railway, 274;
      opens the High Level and Royal Border Bridges, 319;
      visits the Britannia Bridge, 338.

                                * * * * *

RAILS, cast and wrought iron, 6, 133.

Railways,
      early, 5–7;
      Merthyr Tydfil (Pen-y-darran), 69, 71;
      Middleton, Leeds, 72;
      Wylam, 74;
      Killingworth, 84, 116;
      Hetton, 118;
      Stockton and Darlington, 123;
      Liverpool and Manchester, 222;
      Grand Junction, 230, 253;
      Great Western, and Leicester and Swannington, 232;
      London and Birmingham, 237;
      Navvies, 250;
      Manchester and Leeds, 254;
      Midland, 257;
      York and North Midland, 261;
      travelling, 270–4;
      undulating, 284;
      atmospheric, 286;
      Chester and Birkenhead, 286;
      mania, 288;
      Newcastle and Berwick, and Newcastle and Darlington, 306;
      South Devon, 308;
      Chester and Holyhead, 320;
      Trent Valley, 352.

Rainhill, locomotive competition at, 215.

Rastrick, Mr., C.E., 219, 253.

Ravensworth, Earl of, 46, 82.

Rennie, Messrs., C.E., 123, 171, 173, 325.

Road locomotion,
      Cugnot’s steam-carriage, 64;
      Evans and Symington’s, 65;
      Trevithick’s, 67;
      George Stephenson on, 113.

Robertson, Andrew, schoolmaster, 24, 28.

Robins, anecdote of George Stephenson and the, 265.

Robison, Dr., his idea of a Locomotive, 64.

“Rocket,” the,
      its construction, 210;
      arrangements of, 212;
      wins the prize of £500, 218.

Roscoe, Mr., his farm on Chat Moss, 169, 174, 176.

Ross, A. M., Engineer, 360.

Royal Border Bridge, Berwick, 311.

Rutter’s School, Benton, 50, 55.

                                * * * * *

SAFETY-LAMP, Dr. Clanny’s, 92;
      Stephenson’s first lamp, 94;
      second lamp, 99;
      third lamp, 100;
      Sir H. Davy’s paper, 92;
      his lamp, 101;
      the safety-lamp controversy, 102;
      the Davy and Stephenson testimonials, 104–6;
      comparative merits of the Davy and “Geordy” lamps, 107–8.

Sailing-waggons on tram-roads, 63.

“Samson” Locomotive, 227.

Sandars, Joseph, Liverpool, 147, 149, 154.

Sankey Viaduct, 185.

“Sanspareil” Locomotive, Tim Hackworth’s, 214, 216, 218.

Sea, the force of, 321, 323.

Seguin, Mr., C.E., his tubular boiler, 210.

Self-acting incline, 61.

Sibthorpe, Colonel, on Railways, 231, 274.

Simplon Road, Midland Railway compared with, 257.

Snibston Colliery purchased by George Stephenson, 234.

Sopwith, Mr., C.E., 96, 297.

Spanish Railway, George Stephenson’s survey of, 298.

Speed, railway,
      on Middleton Railway, 72;
      Wylam, 80;
      Killingworth, 85, 156;
      Coxlodge, 80;
      Stockton and Darlington, 143;
      G. Stephenson before Committee of House of Commons on, 282.

Speed of engines tried at Rainhill, 214–19;
      of the “Northumbrian,” 224;
      George Stephenson’s views on, 282.

Spur-gear, locomotive, 83.

Staiths, coal, 10.

Stationary-engine power, 118, 129, 135, 203, 205.

Statues of George Stephenson, 354.

Steam-blast, invention of, 85, 208–11.

Steam-springs, G. Stephenson’s, 112.

Stephenson family, the, 15, 17, 19, 21, 39;
     “Old Bob,” 14, 15, 39, 55.

Stephenson, George, birth and parentage, 13, 15;
      employed as herd-boy, makes clay engines, 16, 17;
      plough-boy; drives the gin-horse, 18;
      assistant-fireman, 19;
      fireman, 21;
      engineman—study of the steam-engine, 22;
      his schoolmasters, 24, 48, 60;
      learns to brake an engine, 26;
      duties as brakesman, 27;
      soles shoes, 28;
      saves his first guinea, 29;
      fights with a pitman, 30;
      marries Fanny Henderson, 33;
      heaves ballast, 34;
      cleans clocks, 35;
      death of his wife, 36;
      goes to Scotland, 37;
      returns home, 38;
      brakesman at West Moor, Killingworth, 39;
      drawn for the militia, 40;
      takes a brakeing contract, 41;
      cures pumping-engine, 42;
      engine-wright to the colliery, 46;
      evenings with John Wigham, 48;
      education of his son, 50–4;
      cottage at West Moor, 57;
      the sun-dial, 60;
      erects winding and pumping engines, 61;
      study of locomotive, 62;
      makes his first travelling-engine, 82;
      invents the steam-blast, 85;
      second locomotive, 85;
      fire in the main, personal courage, 90;
      invents and tests his safety-lamps, 93, 102;
      the Stephenson testimonial, 105;
      further improvements in the Killingworth locomotive, 110;
      constructs the Hetton Railway, 117;
      surveys and constructs the Stockton and Darlington Railway, 128;
      his second wife, 129;
      starts a Locomotive Manufactory, 132;
      appointed engineer of the Liverpool and Manchester line, 154;
      examined before Parliamentary Committee, 162;
      the Railway across Chat Moss, 173–86, 192;
      life at home, 190;
      the “Rocket” constructed, 210;
      public opening of Liverpool and Manchester line, 223;
      engineer of Grand Junction, 230;
      purchases Snibston Colliery, and removes to Alton Grange, 234;
      appointed joint engineer of London and Birmingham Railway, 237;
      engineer of Manchester and Leeds Railway, 253;
      of Midland Railway, 257;
      of York and North Midland Railway, 261;
      life at Alton Grange, 263;
      visit to Belgium and interviews with King Leopold, 267;
      takes lease of Clayross Colliery, 277;
      lime-works at Ambergate, residence at Tapton House, 278;
      appearance at Mechanics’ Institutes, 280;
      opinions of railway speed, 282;
      views as to atmospheric system of working, 287;
      opposes the railway mania, 290;
      again visits Belgium, 295;
      visit to Spain, 297;
      retires from the profession of engineering, 301;
      Newcastle and Berwick Railway, and Chester and Holyhead Railway,
307;
      habits, conversation, etc., 343;
      theory of coal formation, 351;
      meeting with Emerson, 352;
      illness and death, 354;
      characteristics, 368.

Stock Exchange and railway speculation, 289.

Stockton and Darlington Railway,
      projected, promoted by Edward Pease, 123;
      act passed, 125;
      re-surveyed by G. Stephenson, 128;
      opening of the Railway, 136;
      the coal traffic, 138;
      the first passenger coach, 139;
      coaching companies, 140;
      increase of the traffic, 141;
      town of Middlesborough, 144.

Strathmore, Earl of, 46, 105.

Sun-dial at Killingworth, 60, 280.

Swanwick, Frederick, C.E., 190, 192, 352.

Symington, Wm., steam-carriage, 65.

                                * * * * *

TAPTON HOUSE, Chesterfield, 278, 341.

Tram-roads,
      early, 5;
      Croydon and Merstham, 147.

Travelling by Railway, 160.

Trevithick, Richard, C.E.,
      his steam-carriage, 67;
      his train-engine, and substitute for steam-blast, 70;
      rencontre with Robert Stephenson at Cartagena, 200.

Trent Valley Railway, 352.

Trellis girder bridges, 360.

Tring Cutting, 242.

Tubular boilers, 209.

Tubular bridges, 334, 339, 360.

Tunnels, railway,
      Liverpool, 183;
      Primrose Hill, 244;
      Kilsby, 245;
      Watford, 245;
      Littleborough, 255.

Tyne, the, at Newcastle, 3, 10, 11, 315.

                                * * * * *

VIADUCTS,
      Sankey, 185;
      Dutton, 254;
      Berwick, 311;
      Newcastle, 312.

Victoria Bridge, Montreal, 357–66.

Vignolles, Mr., C.E., 171, 185, 204.

                                * * * * *

WAGGON-ROADS, early, 4–7, 16, 63.

Walker, James, C.E., 159.

Wallsend, Newcastle, 1, 33.

Walmsley, Sir Joshua, 297, 299, 371.

Wandsworth and Croydon Tramway, 69, 147.

Watford Tunnel, 245.

Watt, James, and the Locomotive, 64.

Way-leaves for waggon roads, 5.

Wellington, Duke of, and Railways, 223, 274.

West Moor, Killingworth, 37, 40, 91, 108.

Whitehaven, early Railroad at, 6.

Wigham, John, Stephenson’s teacher, 48–9.

Willington Quay, 28, 31–6.

Wilton, Earl of, 172.

Wood, Nicholas,
      prepares drawing of safety-lamp, 94;
      is present at its trial, 95;
      assists at experiments on fire-damp, 98;
      appears with Stephenson before Newcastle Institute, 102;
      opinion of the “Geordy” lamp, 108;
      experiments with Stephenson on friction, 117;
      accident in pit, 119;
      visits Edward Pease with G. Stephenson, 126.

Woolf’s tubular boilers, 209.

Wylam Colliery and village, 12–14.
      ,,       waggon-way, 74, 78.

                                * * * * *

YORK and North Midland Railway, 261.

Young, Arthur, description of early waggon-roads, 5.

NOTES.

{4}  In the Newcastle dialect, a chare is a narrow street or lane.  At the local assizes some
years since, one of the witnesses in a criminal trial swore that “he saw three men come out
of the foot of a chare.” The judge cautioned the jury not to pay any regard to the man’s evidence,
as he must be insane.  A little explanation by the foreman, however, satisfied his lordship
that the original statement was correct.

{5}  ‘Six Months’ Tour,’ vol. iii. 9

{26}  Father of Mr. Locke, M.P., the engineer.  He afterwards removed to Barnsley, in Yorkshire.

{33}  The Stephenson Memorial Schools have since been erected on the site of the old cottage
at Willington Quay represented in the engraving at the head of this chapter.

{38}  This incident was related by Robert Stephenson during a voyage to the north of Scotland
in 1857, when off Montrose, on board his yacht Titania; and the reminiscence was communicated
to the author by the late Mr. William Kell of Gateshead, who was present, at Mr. Stephenson’s
request, as being worthy of insertion in his father’s biography.

{52}  Speech at Newcastle, on the 18th of June, 1844, at the meeting held in celebration of
the opening of the Newcastle and Darlington Railway.

{57}  Robert Stephenson was perhaps, prouder of this little boyish experiment than he was of
many of his subsequent achievements.  Not having been quite accurately stated in the first
edition of this book, Mr. Stephenson noted the correction for the second, and wrote the author
(Sept. 18th, 1857) as follows:—“In the kite experiment, will you say, that the copper-wire
was insulated by a few feet of silk cord; without this, the experiment cannot be made.”

{70}  Mr. Zerah Colburn, in his excellent work on ‘Locomotive Engineering and the Mechanism
of Railways,’ points out that Mr. Davies Gilbert noted the effect of the discharge of the waste
steam up the chimney of Trevithick’s engine in increasing the draught, and wrote a letter to
‘Nicholson’s Journal’ (Sept. 1805) on the subject. Mr. Nicholson himself proceeded to investigate
the subject, and in 1806 he took out a patent for “steam-blasting apparatus,” applicable to
fixed engines. Trevithick himself, however, could not have had much faith in the steam-blast
for locomotive purposes, or else he would not have taken out his patent for urging the fire
by means of fanners.  But the fact is, that while the speed of the locomotive was only four
or five miles an hour, the blast was scarcely needed. It was only when high speeds were adopted
that artificial methods of urging the fire became necessary, and that the full importance of
the invention was recognised.  Like many other inventions, stimulated if not originated by
necessity, the steam-blast was certainly reinvented, if not invented, by George Stephenson.

{71}  ‘Mining Journal,’  9th September, 1858.

{73}  Other machines, with legs, were patented in the following year by Lewis Gompertz and
by Thomas Tindall. In Tindall’s specification it is provided that the power of the engine is
to be assisted by a horizontal windmill; and the four pushers, or legs, are to be caused to
come successively in contact with the ground, and impel the carriage!

{82}  Speech at the opening of the Newcastle and Darlington Railway, June 18, 1844.

