"Leave her 'lone, Cunnel," Demming said, quietly. "Don' yo' see she cyan't stan' no sech racket?
'Sence yo' so mighty peart 'bout it, no, she wahn't, an' thet thar's the truf. I jes' done
it fur ter raise money. It wuz this a way. Thet thar mahnin', w'ile I wuz a-considerin' an'
a-contemplatin' right smart how I wuz evah to git a few dollars, I seen Mose Barnwell gwine
'long,--yo' know Mose Barnwell," turning in an affable, conversational way to the grinning
negro,--"an' he'd a string o' crape 'roun' his hat 'cause he'd jes done los' his wife, an'
he wuz purportin' ter git a cyoffin. So I 'lowed I'd git a cyoffin fur him cheap. An' I reckon,"
said Demming, smiling graciously on his delighted black auditor,--"I reckon I done it."

"Demming," cried the Bishop, with some heat, "this exceeds patience--"

"I know, Bishop," answered the vagabond, meekly,--"I know it. I wuz tempted an' I fell, as
you talked 'bout in yo' sermon. It's orful how I kin do sech things!"

"And those chickens, too!" ejaculated the Bishop, with rising wrath, as new causes rushed to
his remembrance. "You stole chickens,--Judge Eldridge's chickens; you who pretend to be such
a stanch friend of the North--"

"Chickens!" screamed the woman. "Oh, Lordy! Oh, he nevah done thet afo'e! He'll be took to
jail! Oh, Demming, how cyould ye? Stealin' chickens, jes' like a low-down, no-'cyount niggah!"
Sobs choked her voice, and tears of fright and shame were streaming down her hollow cheeks.

Demming looked disconcerted. "Now, look a yere!" said he, sinking his voice reproachfully;
"w'at wuz the use o' bringin' thet thar up befo' th' ole 'ooman? She don' know nuthin' on it,
you unnerstan', an' why mus' you rile 'er up fur? I'd not a thought it o' you, Bishop, thet
I wyouldn't. Now, Alwynda," turning to the weeping woman, who was wiping her eyes with the
cape of her sunbonnet, "jes' you dry up an' stop yo' bellerin', an' I 'splain it all in a holy
minit. Thar, thar," patting her on the shoulder, "'tain't nuthin' ter cry 'bout; 'tain't no
fault o' yourn, onyhow. Fac' is, gen'lemen, 'twuz all 'long o' my 'preciation o' the Bishop.
I'm a 'Piscopal, like yo'self, Bishop, an' I tole Samson Mobley thet you overlaid all the preachers
yere fur goodness an' shortness bofe. An' he 'lowed, 'Mabbe he may fur goodness; I ain't no
jedge,' says he; 'but fo' shortness, we've a feller down at the Baptis' kin beat 'im outen
sight. They've jes' gin up sleepin' down thar,' says he, ''cause 'tain't worth w'ile.' So we
tried it on, you unnerstan', 'cause thet riled me, an' I jes' bet on it, I did; an' we tried
it on,--you in the mahnin' and him in the arternoon. An' laws, ef didn't so happen as how you'd
a powerful flow o' speech! 'Twuz 'mazin' edifyin', but 't los' me the bet, you unnerstan';
an' onct los' I hed ter pay; an' not havin' ary chick o' my own I had ter confiscate some from
th' gineral public, an' I tuk 'em 'thout distinction o' party frum the handiest cyoop in the
Baptis' dernomination. I kin' o' hankered arter Baptis' chickuns, somehow, so's ter git even,
like. Now, Bishop, I jes' leaves ter you uns, cyould I go back on a debt o' honah, like thet?"

"Honor!" repeated the Bishop, scornfully.

Talboys interposed again: "We appear to be sold, Bishop; don't you think we had better get
out of this before the hearse comes?"

Demming waved his hand at Talboys, saying in his smoothest tones, "Ef you meet it, Cunnel,
p'raps you'd kin'ly tell 'em ter go on ter Mose Barnwell's. He's ready an' waitin'."

"Demming--" began the Bishop, but he did not finish the sentence; instead, he lifted his hat
to Mrs. Demming, with his habitual stately courtesy, and moved in a slow and dignified manner
to the carriage. Louise followed, only stopping to say to the still weeping woman, "He is in
no danger from us; but this trick was a poor return for my father's kindness."

Demming had been rubbing his right eyebrow obliquely with his hand, thus making a shield behind
which he winked at the coachman in a friendly and humorous manner; at Louise's words, his hand
fell and his face changed quickly. "Don' say thet, miss," he said, a ring of real emotion in
his voice. "I know I'm purty po' pickings, but I ain't ongrateful. Yo' par will remember I
wyouldn't tek no money frum him!"

"I would have given fifty dollars," cried the Bishop, "rather than have had this--this scandalous
fraud! Drive on!"

They drove away. The last they saw of Demming he was blandly waving his hand.

The drive back from the house so unexpectedly disclosed as not a house of mourning was somewhat
silent. The Bishop was the first to speak. "I shall insist upon returning every cent of that
money," he said.

"I assure you none of us will take it," Talboys answered; "and really, you know, the sell was
quite worth the money."

"And you did see her, after all," said Louise dryly, "standing in the doorway, with her old
clay pipe in her mouth."

The Bishop smiled, but he sighed, too. "Well, well, I ought not to have lost my temper. But
I am disappointed in Demming. I thought I had won his affection, and I hoped through his affection
to reach his conscience. I suppose I deceived myself."

"I fear he hasn't any conscience to reach," Louise observed.

"I agree with Miss Louise," said Talboys. "You see, Demming is a cracker."

"Ah! the cracker has his virtues," observed the Bishop; "not the cardinal New England virtues
of thrift and cleanliness and energy; but he has his own. He is as hospitable as an Arab, brave,
faithful, and honest, and full of generosity and kindness."

"All the same, he isn't half civilized," said Talboys, "and as ignorant morally as any being
you can pick up. He doesn't steal or lie much, I grant you, but he smashes all the other commandments
to flinders. He kills when he thinks he has been insulted, and he hasn't the feeblest scruples
about changing his old wife for a new one whenever he feels like it, without any nonsense of
divorce. The women are just as bad as the men. But Demming is not only a cracker; he is a cracker
spoiled by the tourists. We have despoiled him of his simplicity. He hasn't learned any good
of us,--that goes without saying,--but he has learned no end of Yankee tricks. Do you suppose
that if left to himself he would ever have been up to this morning's performance? Oh, we've
polished his wicked wits for him! Even his dialect is no longer pure South Carolinian; it is
corrupted by Northern slang. We have ruined his religious principles, too. The crackers haven't
much of any morality, but they are very religious,--all Southerners are. But Demming is an
unconscious Agnostic. 'I tell ye,' he says to the saloon theologians, 'thar ain't no tellin'.
'Ligion's a heap like jumpin' arter a waggin in th' dark; yo' mo'n likely ter lan' on nuthin'!'
And you have seen for yourselves that he has lost the cracker honesty."

"At least," said Louise, "he has the cracker hospitality left; he made us welcome to all he had."

"And did you notice," said the Bishop, who had quite smoothed his ruffled brow by this time,--"did
you notice the consideration, tenderness almost, that he showed to his wife? Demming has his
redeeming qualities, believe me, Mr. Talboys."

"I see that you don't mean to give him up," said Talboys, smiling; but he did not pursue the
subject.

For several days Demming kept away from Aiken. When he did appear he rather avoided the Bishop.
He bore the jokes and satirical congratulations of his companions with his usual equanimity;
but he utterly declined to gratify public curiosity either at the saloon or the grocery. One
morning he met the Bishop. They walked a long way together, and it was observed that they seemed
to be on most cordial terms. This happened on Tuesday. Friday morning Demming came to the Bishop
in high spirits. He showed a letter from a cousin in Charleston, a very old man, with no near
kindred and a comfortable property. This cousin, repenting of an old injustice to Demming's
mother, had bethought him of Demming, his nearest relative; and sent for him, inclosing money
to pay all expenses. "He is right feeble," said Demming, with a cheerful accent not according
with his mournful words, "an' wants ter see me onct fo' he departs. Reckon he means ter do
well by me."

The Bishop's hopeful soul saw a chance for the cracker's reclamation. So he spoke solemnly
to him, warning him against perilling his future by relapsing into his old courses in Charleston.
Nothing could exceed Demming's bland humility. He filled every available pause in the exhortation
with "Thet's so," and "Shoo 's yo' bawn!" and answered, "I'm gwine ter be 's keerful 's a ole
coon thet 's jes' got shet o' the dogs. You nevah said truer words than them thar, an' don'
you forget it! I'm gwine ter buy mo' lan', an' raise hogs, an' keep th' ole 'ooman like a lady.
Don' ye be 'feard o' me gwine on no' mo' tears. No, sir, none o' thet in mine. 'Twuz on'y 'cause
I wuz so low in my min' I evah done it, onyhow. Now, I'm gwine ter be 's sober 's a owl!"

Notwithstanding these and similar protestations, hardly an hour was gone before Demming was
the glory of the saloon, haranguing the crowd on his favorite topic, the Bishop's virtues.
"High-toned gen'leman, bes' man in the worl', an' nobody's fool, either. I'm proud to call
him my frien', an' Aiken 's put in its bes' licks w'en it cured him. Gen'lemen, he 'vised me
ter fight shy o' you all. I reckon as how I mought be better off ef I'd allus have follered
his ammonitions. Walk up, gen'lemen, an' drink his health! My 'xpens'."

The sequel to such toasts may readily be imagined. By six o'clock, penniless and tipsy, Demming
was apologizing to the Bishop on the hotel piazza. He had the grace to seem ashamed of himself.
"Wust o' 'tis flingin' away all thet money; but I felt kinder like makin' everybody feel good,
an' I set 'em up. An' 't 'appened, somehow, they wuz a right smart chance o' people in, jes'
thet thar minit,--they gen'rally is a right smart chance o' people in when a feller sets 'em
up! an' they wuz powerful dry,--they gen'rally is dry, then; an' the long an' short o' 'tis,
they cleaned me out. An' now, Bishop, I jes' feel nashuated with myself. Suah 's yo' bawn,
Bishop, I'm gwine ter reform. 'Stop short, an' nevah go on again,' like thet thar clock in
the song. I am, fur a fac', sir. I'm repentin' to a s'prisin' extent."

"I certainly should be surprised if you were repentant," the Bishop said, dryly; then, after
a pause, "Well, Demming, I will help you this once again. I will buy you a ticket to Charleston."

Some one had come up to the couple unperceived; this person spoke quickly: "Please let me do
that, Bishop. Demming has afforded me enough entertainment for that."

"You don' think no gre't shakes o' me, do you, Cunnel?" said Demming, looking at Talboys half
humorously, yet with a shade of something else in his expression. "You poke fun at me all the
time. Well, pleases you, an' don' hurt me, I reckon. Mahnin', Bishop; mahnin', Cunnel. I'll
be at th' deppo." He waved his hand and shambled away. Both men looked after him.

"I will see that he gets off," said Talboys. "I leave Aiken, myself, in the morning."

"Leave Aiken?" the Bishop repeated. "But you will return?"

"I don't expect to."

"Why, I am sorry to hear that, Mr. Talboys,--truly sorry." The Bishop took the young man's
hand and pressed it. "I am just beginning to know you; I may say, to like you, if you will
permit the expression. Won't you walk in with me now, and say good-by to my daughter?"

"Thanks, very much, but I have already made my adieux to Miss Louise."

"Ah, yes, certainly," said the Bishop, absently.

He was an absorbed clergyman; but he had sharp enough eyes, did he choose to use them; and
Talboys's reddening cheeks told him a great deal. It cannot be said that he was sorry because
his daughter had not looked kindly on this worldly and cynical young man's affection; but he
was certainly sorry for the young man himself, and his parting grasp of the hand was warmer
than it would have been but for that fleeting blush.

"Poor fellow, poor fellow!" soliloquized the Bishop, when, after a few cordial words, they
had parted. "He looks as though it had hurt him. I suppose that is the way we all take it.
Well, time cures us; but it would scarcely do to tell him that, or how much harder it is to
win a woman, find how precious she is, and then to lose her. Ah, well, time helps even that!
'For the strong years conquer us.'"

But he sighed as he went back to his daughter, and he did not see the beautiful Miss Reynolds
when she bowed to him, although she was smiling her sweetest and brightest smile.

Louise sat in her room. Its windows opened upon the piazza, and she had witnessed the interview.
She did not waver in her conviction that she had done right. She could not wisely marry a man
whom she did not respect, let his charm of manner and temper be what it might. She needed a
man who was manly, who could rule other men; besides, how could she make up her mind to walk
through life with a husband hardly above her shoulder? Still, she conceded to herself that,
had Talboys compelled one thrill of admiration from her by any mental or moral height, she
would not have caviled at his short stature. But there was something ridiculous in the idea
of Talboys thrilling anybody. For one thing, he took everything too lightly. Suddenly, with
the sharpness of a new sensation, she remembered that he had not seemed to take the morning's
episode lightly. Poor Martin!--for the first time, even in her reveries, she called him by
his Christian name,--there was an uncomfortable deal of feeling in his few words. Yet he was
considerate; he made it as easy as possible for her.

Martin was always considerate; he never jarred on her; possibly, the master mind might jar,
being so masterful. He was always kind, too; continually scattering pleasures about in his
quiet fashion. Such a quiet fashion it was that few people noticed how persistent was the kindness.
Now a hundred instances rushed to her mind. All at once, recalling something, she blushed hotly.
That morning, just as Talboys and she were turning from the place where he had asked and she
had answered, she caught a glimpse of Demming's head through the leaves. He had turned, also,
and he made a feint of passing them, as though he were but that instant walking by. The action
had a touch of delicacy in it; a Northerner of Demming's class would not have shown it. Louise
felt grateful to the vagabond; at the same time, it was hardly pleasant to know that he was
as wise as she in Talboys's heart affairs. As for Talboys himself, he had not so much as seen
Demming; he had been too much occupied with his own bitter thoughts. Again Louise murmured,
"Poor Martin!" What was the need, though, that her own heart should be like lead? Almost impatiently,
she rose and sought her father.

The Bishop, after deliberation, had decided to accompany Demming to Charleston. He excused
his interest in the man so elaborately and plausibly that his daughter was reminded of Talboys.

Saturday morning all three--the Bishop, the vagabond, and Talboys--started for Charleston.
Talboys, however, did not know that the Bishop was going. He bought Demming's ticket, saw him
safely to a seat, and went into the smoking-car. The Bishop was late, but the conductor, with
true Southern good-nature, backed the train and took him aboard. He seated himself in front
of Demming, and began to wipe his heated brow.

"Why do they want to have a fire in the stove this weather?" said he.

"Well," said the cracker, slyly, "you see we hain't all been runnin', an' we're kinder chilly!"

"Humph!" said the Bishop. After this there was silence. The train rolled along; through the
pine woods, past small stations where rose trees brightened trim white cottages, then into
the swamp lands, where the moisture painted the bark of tall trees, and lay in shiny green
patches among them. The Southern moss dripping from the giant branches shrouded them in a weird
drapery, soft as mist. There was something dreary and painful to a Northern eye in the scene;
the tall and shrouded trees, the stagnant pools of water gleaming among them, the vivid green
patches of moss, the barren stretches of sand. The very beauty in it all seemed the unnatural
glory of decay, repelling the beholder. Here and there were cabins. One could not look at them
without wondering whether the inhabitants had the ague, or its South Carolina synonym, the
"break-bone fever." At one, a bent old woman was washing. She lifted her head, and Demming
waved his hat at her. Then he glanced at the Bishop, now busy with a paper, and chuckled over
some recollection. He looked out again. There was a man running along the side of the road
waving a red flag. He called out a few words, which the wind of the train tore to pieces. At
the same instant, the whistle of the engine began a shrill outcry. "Sunthin' 's bust, I reckon,"
said Demming. And then, before he could see, or know, or understand, a tremendous crash drowned
his senses, and in one awful moment blended shivering glass and surging roof and white faces
like a horrible kaleidoscope.

The first thing he noticed, when he came to himself, was a thin ribbon of smoke. He watched
it lazily, while it melted into the blue sky, and another ribbon took its place. But presently
the pain in his leg aroused him. He perceived that the car was lying on one side, making the
other side into a roof, and one open window was opposite his eyes. At the other end the car
was hardly more than a mass of broken seats and crushed sides, but it was almost intact where
he lay. He saw that the stove had charred the wood-work near it; hence the smoke, which escaped
through a crack and floated above him. The few people in the car were climbing out of the windows
as best they might. A pair of grimy arms reached down to Demming, and he heard the brakeman's
voice (he knew Jim Herndon, the brakeman, well) shouting profanely for the "next."

"Whar's the Bishop?" said Demming.

"Reckon he's out," answered Jim. "Mought as well come yo'self! H----! you've broke yo' leg!"

"Pull away, jes' the same. I don' wanter stay yere an' roast!"

The brakeman pulled him through the window. Demming shut his teeth hard; only the fear of death
could have made him bear the agony every motion gave him.

The brakeman drew him to one side before he left him. Demming could see the wreck plainly.
A freight train had been thrown from the track, and the passenger train had run into it while
going at full speed. "The brakes wouldn't work," Demming heard Jim say. Now the sight was a
sorry one: a heap of rubbish which had been a freight car; the passenger engine sprawling on
one side, in the swamp, like a huge black beetle; and, near it, the two foremost cars of its
train overturned and shattered. The people of both trains were gathered about the wreck, helplessly
talking, as is the manner of people in an accident. They were, most of them, on the other side
of the track. No one had been killed; but some were wounded, and were stretched in a ghastly
row on car cushions. The few women and children in the train were collected about the wounded.

"Is the last man out?" shouted the conductor.

Jim answered, "Yes, all out--no, d---- it! I see a coat-tail down here."

