So far, however, cartographers had ignored the corrections made by astronomers. In the middle
of the seventeenth century, Peiresc and Gassendi had corrected upon the maps of the Mediterranean
a difference of "five hundred" miles of distance between Marseilles and Alexandria. This important
rectification was set aside as non-existent until the hydrographer, Jean Matthieu de Chazelles,
who had assisted Cassini in his labours, was sent to the Levant to draw up a coast-chart for
the Mediterranean.

"It was sufficiently clear," say the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences, that the maps unduly
extended the Continents of Europe, Africa, and America, and narrowed the Pacific Ocean between
Asia and Europe. These errors had caused singular mistakes. During M. de Chaumont's voyage,
when he went as Louis XIV.'s ambassador to Siam, the pilots, trusting to their charts, were
mistaken in their calculations, and both in going and in returning went a good deal further
than they imagined. In proceeding from the Cape of Good Hope to the island of Java they imagined
themselves a long way from the Strait of Sunda, when in reality they were more than sixty leagues
beyond it. And they were forced to put back for two days with a favourable wind to enter it.
In the same way upon their return voyage from the Cape of Good Hope to France, they found themselves
at the island of Flores, the most western of the Azores, when they conceived themselves to
be at least a hundred and fifty leagues eastward of it. They were obliged to navigate for twelve
days in an easterly direction in order to reach the French coast. As we have already said,
the corrections made in the map of France were considerable. It was recognized that Perpignan
and Collioures more especially were far more to the east than had been supposed. To gain a
fair idea of the alteration, one has only to glance at the map of France published in the first
part of the seventh volume of the memoirs of the Academy of Sciences. All the astronomical
observations to which we have called attention are noted in it, and the original outline of
the map, published by Sanson in 1679, makes the modification apparent.

Cassini was right in saying that cartography was no longer at its height as a science. In reality,
Sanson had blindly followed the longitudes of Ptolemy, without taking any note of astronomical
observations. His sons and grandsons had simply re-edited his maps as they were completed,
and other geographers followed the same course.

William Delisle was the first to construct new maps, and to make use of modern discoveries.
He arbitrarily rejected all that had been done before his time. His enthusiasm was so great
that he had entirely carried out his project at the age of twenty-five. His brother, Joseph
Nicolas, who taught astronomy in Russia, sent William materials for his maps. At the same time
his younger brother, Delisle de la Ceyére, visited the coast of the Arctic Ocean, and astronomically
fixed the position of the most important points. He embarked on board De Behring's vessel and
died at Kamtchatka. That was the work of the three Delisles, but to William belongs the glory
of having revolutionized geography.

"He succeeded," says Cooley, "in reconciling ancient and modern computations, and in collecting
an immense mass of documents. Instead of limiting his corrections to any one quarter of the
earth, he directed them to the entire globe. By this means he earned the right to be considered
the founder of modern geography."

Peter the Great, on his way to Paris, paid a tribute to his merit by visiting him, and placing
at his disposal all the information he himself possessed of the geography of Russia.

Could there be a more conclusive testimony to his worth than this from a stranger? and if French
geographers are excelled in these days by those of Germany and England, is it not consolatory
and encouraging to them to know, that they have excelled in a science, in which they are now
struggling to regain their former superiority?

Delisle lived to witness the success of his pupil, J. B. d'Anville. If the latter is inferior
to Adrian Valois in the matter of historical science, he deserved his high fame for the relative
improvement of his outlines, and for the clear and artistic appearance of his maps.

"It is difficult," says M. E. Desjardins, in his "Geographie de la Gaule Romaine," "to understand
the slight importance which has been attributed to his works as a geographer, mathematician,
and draughtsman." The latter more especially do justice to his great merit. D'Anville was the
first to construct a map by scientific methods, and that of itself is sufficient glory. In
the department of historical geography, D'Anville exhibited unusual good sense in discussion,
and a marvellous topographical instinct for identifications, but it is well to remember that
he was neither a man of science, nor even well versed in classic authorities. His most beautiful
work is his map of Italy, the dimensions of which, hitherto exaggerated, extended from the
east to the west in accordance with the ideas of the ancients.

In 1735, Philip Buache, whose name as a geographer is justly celebrated, inaugurated a new
method in his chart of the depths of the English Channel, by using contour levels to represent
the variations of the soil.

Ten years later d'Après De Mannevillette published his "Neptune Oriental," in which he rectified
the charts of the African, Chinese, and Indian coasts. He added to it a nautical guide, which
was the more precious at this period, as it was the first of the kind. Up to the close of his
life he amended his manual, which served as a guide for all French naval officers during the
latter part of the eighteenth century.

Of English astronomers and physicists, Hally was the chief. He published a theory of "Magnetic
Variations," and a "History of the Monsoons," which gained for him the command of a vessel,
that he might put his theory into practice.

That which D'Après achieved for the French, Alexander Dalrymple accomplished for the English.
His views, however, bordered on the hypothetical, and he believed in the existence of an Antarctic
Continent.

He was succeeded by Horsburgh, whose name is justly dear to navigators.

We must now speak of two important expeditions, which ought to have settled the animated discussion
as to the shape of the earth. The Academy of Sciences had despatched a mission to America,
to compute the arc of the meridian at the Equator. It was composed of Godin, Bouguer, and La
Condamine.

It was decided to entrust a similar expedition to the North to Maupertuis.

"If," said this scientific man, "the flatness of the earth be not greater then Huyghens supposed,
the margin between the degrees of the meridian measured in France, and the first degrees of
the meridian near the Equator, would not be too considerable to be attributed to possible errors
of the observers, or to the imperfection of instruments. But, if the observation can be made
at the Pole, the difference between the first degree of the meridian nearest the equatorial
line, and, for example, the sixty-sixth degree, which crosses the polar circle, will be great
enough, even by Huyghens' hypothesis, to show itself irresistibly, and beyond the possibility
of miscalculation, because the difference would be repeated just as many times as there are
intermediate degrees."

The problem thus neatly propounded ought to have obtained a ready solution both at the Pole
and the Equator--a solution which would have settled the discussion, by proving Huyghens and
Newton to be right.

The expedition embarked in a vessel equipped at Dunkerque. In addition to Maupertuis, it comprised
De Clairaut, Camus, and Lemonnier, Academicians, Albey Outhier, canon of Bayeux, a secretary
named Sommereux, a draughtsman, Herbelot, and the scientific Swedish astronomer, Celsius.

When the King of Sweden received the members of the mission at Stockholm, he said to them,
"I have been in many bloody battles, but I should prefer finding myself in the midst of the
most sanguinary, rather than join your expedition."

Certainly, it was not likely to prove a party of pleasure. The learned adventurers were to
be tested by difficulties of every kind, by continued privation, by excessive cold. But what
comparison can be made between their sufferings, and the agonies, the trials and the dangers
which were to be encountered by the Arctic explorers, Ross, Parry, Hall, Payer, and many others.

Damiron in his "Eulogy of Maupertuis," says, "The houses at Tornea, north of the Gulf of Bothnia,
almost in the Arctic Circle, are hidden under the snow. When one goes out, the air seems to
pierce the lungs, the increasing degrees of frost are proclaimed by the incessant crackling
of the wood, of which most of the houses are built. From the solitude which reigns in the streets,
one might fancy that the inhabitants of the town were dead. At every step one meets mutilated
figures, people who have lost arms or legs from the terrible severity of the temperature. And
yet, the travellers did not intend pausing at Tornea."

Now-a-days these portions of the globe are better known, and the region of the Arctic climate
thoroughly appreciated, which makes it easier to estimate the difficulties the inquirers encountered.

They commenced their operations in July, 1736. Beyond Tornea they found only uninhabited regions.
They were obliged to rely upon their own resources for scaling the mountains, where they placed
the signals intended to form the uninterrupted series of triangles.

Divided into two parties in order thus to obtain two measurements instead of one, and thereby
also to diminish the chance of mistakes, the adventurous savants, after inconceivable hairbreadth
escapes, of which an account can be found in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for 1737,
and after incredible efforts, decided that the length of the meridian circle, comprised between
the parallels of Tornea and Kittis was 55,023 fathoms and a half. Thus below the Polar circle,
the meridian degree comprised a thousand fathoms more than Cassini had imagined, and the terrestrial
degree exceeded by 377 fathoms the length which Picard has reckoned it between Paris and Amiens.

The result, therefore, of this discovery (a result long repudiated by the Cassinis, both father
and son), was that the earth was considerably flattened at the poles.

Voltaire somewhat maliciously said of it,--

    Courrier de la physique, argonaute nouveau,
    Qui, franchissant les monts, qui, traversant les eaux,
    Ramenez des climats soumis aux trois couronnes,
    Vos perches, vos secteurs et surtout deux Laponnes.
    Vous avez confirmé dans ces lieux pleins d'ennui
    Ce que Newton connut sans sortir de lui.

In much the same vein he alludes to the two sisters who accompanied Maupertuis upon his return,
the attractions of one of whom proved irresistible,--

    Cette erreur est trop ordinaire
    Et c'est la seule que l'on fit
    En allant au cercle polaire.

M. A. Maury in his "History of the Academy of Sciences," remarks,--

"At the same time, the importance of the instruments and methods employed by the astronomers
sent to the North, afforded a support to the defenders of the theory of the flattening of the
globes, which was hardly theirs by right, and in the following century the Swedish astronomer,
Svanburg, rectified their involuntary exaggerations, in a fine work published by him in the
French language."

Meantime the mission despatched by the Academy to Peru proceeded with analogous operations.
It consisted of La Condamine, Bouguer, and Godin, three Academicians, Joseph de Jussieu, Governor
of the Medical College, who undertook the botanical branch, Seniergues, a surgeon, Godin des
Odonais, a clock-maker, and a draughtsman. They started from La Rochelle, on the 16th of May, 1735.

Upon reaching St. Domingo, they took several astronomical observations, and continued by way
of Porto Bello, and Carthagena. Crossing the Isthmus of Panama, they disembarked at Manta in
Peru, upon the 9th of March, 1736.

Arrived there, Bouguer and Condamine parted from their companions, studied the rapidity of
the pendulum, and finally reached Quito by different routes. Condamine pursued his way along
the coast, as far as Rio de las Esmeraldas, and drew the map of the entire country, which he
traversed with such infinite toil. Bouguer went southwards towards Guayaquil, passing through
marshy forests, and reaching Caracol at the foot of the Cordillera range of the Andes, which
he was a week in crossing. This route had been previously taken by Alvarado, when seventy of
his followers perished; amongst them, the three Spaniards who had attempted to penetrate to
the interior. Bouguer reached Quito on the 10th of June. At that time this city contained between
thirty and forty thousand inhabitants, and boasted of an episcopal president of the Assembly,
and numbers of religious communities, besides two colleges.

Living there was cheap, with the exception of foreign merchandises, which realized exorbitant
prices, so much so indeed, that a glass goblet fetched from eighteen to twenty francs.

The adventurers scaled the Pichincha, a mountain near Quito, the eruptions from which had more
than once been fatal to the inhabitants, but they were not slow in discovering that they could
not succeed in carrying their implements to the summit of the mountains, and that they must
be satisfied with placing the signals upon the hills.

"An extraordinary phenomena may be witnessed almost every day upon the summit of these mountains,"
said Bouguer in the account he read before the Academy of Sciences, "which is probably as old
as the world itself, but what it appeared was never witnessed by any one before us. We first
remarked it when we were altogether upon a mountain called Pamba Marca. A cloud in which we
had been enveloped, and which dispersed, allowed us a view of the rising sun, which was very
brilliant. The cloud passed on, it was scarcely removed thirty paces when each of us distinguished
his own shadow reflected above him, and saw only his own, because the cloud presented a broken
surface.

"The short distance allowed us fully to recognize each part of the shadow; we distinguished
the arms, the legs, the head, but we were most amazed at finding that the latter was surrounded
by a glory, or aureole formed of two or three small concentric crowns of a very bright colour,
containing the same variety of hues as the rainbow, red being the outer one. The spaces between
the circles were equal, the last circle the weakest, and in the far distance, we perceived
one large white one, which surrounded the whole. It produced the effect of a transfiguration
upon the spectator."

The instruments employed by these scholars were not as accurate as more modern ones, and varied
with changes of temperature, in consequence of which, they were forced to proceed most carefully,
and with most minute accuracy, lest small errors accumulating should end by leading to greater
ones. Thus, in their trigonometrical surveys Bouguer and his associates never calculated the
third angle by the observation of the two first, but always observed all three.

Having calculated the number of fathoms contained in the extent of country surveyed, the next
point was to discover what part this was of the earth's circumference, which could only be
ascertained by means of astronomical observations.

After numerous obstacles, which it is impossible to give in detail, after curious discoveries,
as for example the attraction exercised on the pendulum by mountains, the French inquirers
arrived at conclusions which fully confirmed the result of the expedition to Lapland. They
did not all return to France at the same time.

Jussieu continued his search after facts in natural history, and La Condamine decided to return
by way of the Amazon River, making an important voyage, to which we shall have occasion to
refer later.

The war of the Spanish succession was at its height, when some privateers of Bristol determined
to fit out ships to attack the Spanish vessels, in the Pacific Ocean, and to devastate the
coasts of South America. The two vessels chosen, the Duke and Duchess, under Captains Rogers
and Courtenay, were carefully equipped, and stocked with everything necessary for so long a
voyage, the famous Dampier, who had acquired a great reputation by his daring adventures and
piracies, did not disdain to accept the title of chief pilot, and although this trip was richer
in material results than in geographical discoveries, the account of it contains a few curious
particulars worthy of preservation.

The Duke and Duchess set sail from the Royal Port of Bristol on the 2nd April, 1708. To begin
with, we may note one interesting fact. Throughout the voyage a register was at the service
of the crew, in which all the incidents of the voyage were to be noted, so that the slightest
errors, and the most insignificant oversights could be rectified before the facts of the case
faded from memory.

Nothing of note occurred on this voyage till the 22nd December, when the Falkland Islands,
previously noticed by few navigators, were discovered. Rogers did not land on them, but contented
himself with observing that the coast, although less precipitous, resembled that of Portland.

"All the hills," he added, "with their well-wooded and gradually sloping sides, appeared fertile,
and the shore is not wanting in good harbours."

Now these islands do not possess a single tree, and the good harbours, as we shall presently
see, are anything but numerous, so we can judge of the exactitude of the observations made
by Rogers. Navigators have done well not to trust to them.

After passing this archipelago the two vessels steered due south, and penetrated as far as
south lat. 60 degrees 58 minutes. Here, there was no night, the cold was intense, and the sea
so rough that the Duchess sustained a few injuries. The chief officers of the two vessels assembled
in council, agreed that it would be better not to attempt to go further south, and the course
was changed for the west. On the 15th January, 1709, Cape Horn is said to have been doubled,
and the southern ocean entered.

Up to this date the position of the island of Juan Fernandez, was differently given on nearly
all maps, and Wood Rogers, who intended to harbour there, take in water, and get a little fresh
meat, came upon it almost unawares.

On the 1st February, he embarked in a little boat to try and find an anchorage. Whilst his
people were awaiting his return, a large fire was noticed on shore. Had some Spanish or French
vessels cast anchor here? Would it be necessary to fight for the water and food required? Every
preparation was made during the night, but in the morning no ship was in sight. Conjectures
were already being hazarded as to whether the enemy had retired, when the end was put to all
surmises by the return of the boat, bringing in it a man clad in goatskins, whose personal
appearance was yet more savage than his garments.

It was a Scotch mariner, Alexander Selkirk by name, who in consequence of a quarrel with the
captain of his ship, had been left on this desert island four years and a half before. The
fire which had attracted notice had been lighted by him.

During his stay on the island of Juan Fernandez, Selkirk had seen many vessels pass, but only
two, both Spanish, had cast anchor. Discovered by the sailors, Selkirk had been fired upon,
and only escaped death by the agility with which he managed to climb into a tree and hide.

He told how he had been put ashore with his clothes, his bed, a pound of powder, some bullets,
a little tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a kettle, a Bible, with a few other devotional books,
his nautical instruments and books.

Poor Selkirk provided for his wants as best he could, but during the first few months he had
great difficulty in conquering the sadness and mastering the horror consequent upon his terrible
loneliness. He built two huts of willow, which he covered with a sort of rush, and lined with
the skins of the goats he killed to satisfy his hunger, so long as his ammunition lasted. When
it was likely to fail, he managed to strike a light by rubbing two pieces of pimento wood together.
When he had quite exhausted his ammunition, he caught the goats as they ran, his agility had
become so great by dint of constant exercise, that he scoured the woods, rocks, and hills,
with a perfectly incredible speed. We had sufficient proof of his skill, when he went hunting
with us. He outran and exhausted our best hunters, and an excellent dog which we had on board;
he easily caught the goats, and brought them to us on his back. He himself related to us, that
one day he chased his prey so eagerly to the edge of a precipice, which was concealed by bushes,
that they rolled over and over together, until they reached the bottom. He lost consciousness
through that fall, and upon discovering that the goat lay under him quite dead, after remaining
where he was for twenty-four hours, he with the utmost difficulty succeeded in crawling to
his cabin, which was about a mile distant; and he was unable to walk again for six days.

This deserted wretch managed to season his food with the turnips sown by the crew of a ship,
with cabbages, capsicums, and all-spice. When his clothes and shoes were worn out, a process
which occupied but a short time, he ingeniously constructed new ones of goatskin, sewing them
together with a nail, which served him as a needle. When his knife was useless, he constructed
a new one from the cask-hoops he found on the shore. He had so far lost the use of speech,
that he could only make himself understood by an effort. Rogers took him on board, and appointed
him boatswain's mate.

Selkirk was not the first sailor abandoned upon the island of Juan Fernandez. It may be remembered
that Dampier had already rescued an unfortunate Mosquito man, who was abandoned from 1681 to
1684. Sharp and other buccaneers have related that the sole survivor of a crew of a vessel
wrecked on this coast, lived there for five years, until he was rescued by another ship. Saintine,
in his recent novel, "Alone," has detailed Selkirk's adventures.

Upon the 14th of February, the Duke and Duchess left Juan Fernandez, and commenced their operations
against the Spaniards. Rogers seized Guayaquil, for which he obtained a large ransom, and captured
several vessels, which, however, provided him with more prisoners than money.

