While the fundamental control of the student body rests, as it always has, with the Faculty,
the students have almost always shown themselves ready and able to deal with questions of a
certain type more promptly and effectively than the Faculty. This is evident by the good record
of the Student Council since its organization in 1905. The members of this body are elected
during the last half of their Junior or the beginning of their Senior year, and are usually
the strongest men in their classes, though not necessarily the most popular or the best students.
Most of the Council's work has had to do with student customs, the regulation of old, and the
establishment of new, "traditions," a paradoxical procedure perhaps, but a source of much that
is picturesque. Of these traditions, none has been more acceptable than the custom of requiring
freshmen to wear the little gray caps, or knitted toques in the winter, with a button at the
top, signifying by its color the College or School of the wearer. No more inspiring or beautiful
ceremony occurs in university life than the annual "cap-night" celebration when the student
body meets in "Sleepy Hollow" near the Observatory, about a great bonfire, to watch the burning
of the caps, and the formal initiation of the freshmen into the responsibilities of college
life. The dance of the freshmen about the fire and the showers of caps falling into the flames
(they have been sent to the Belgians the last few years), combined with the vigor and idealism
of the speeches which follow, all conspire to produce one of the most stirring and impressive
events of the year.

Of more fundamental importance has been the Council's regulation of the irrepressible freshmen-sophomore
rivalry, which long took the course of medieval hair-cutting forays, sometimes, as in 1904,
carried on even within the sacred precincts of the Library. The reform came through the establishment
in 1908 of a series of inter-class contests. Particularly picturesque are those held in May,
which include a tug-of-war across the Huron River, a series of obstacle relay races, and a
massed battle about a six-foot push ball on Ferry Field as the finale. While not entirely innocuous,
these games form an apparently necessary and acceptable safety valve for the exuberances of
class spirit. The upper-classman is most sensitive to the good name of the University; to him
the dangers of undue newspaper notoriety are quite apparent, and thus through the Council the
students themselves have been able on the whole to control successfully what is always a difficult
and delicate question for university officers. Hardly less important among the Council's functions
is the management of various undergraduate occasions, mass-meetings, campus elections, and
inter-class athletics, demonstrations where trouble might brew without the guidance of wiser
heads. More than once when a mass of under-classmen has seemed on the verge of a dangerous
explosion, the members of the Council have intervened quietly and effectively. Ordinarily,
this modesty has been characteristic of the Council's work. A similar regulation of the affairs
of the women is exercised by a Judiciary Council organized at the suggestion of the University
Senate in 1913.

Of all student organizations, however, the Michigan Union has accomplished the most toward
promoting the best interests of the student body since its establishment as a general organization
in 1904. To those who are only familiar with the Union of later years, the name will almost
inevitably suggest the building rather than the organization. The new club house, practically
completed in the first months of 1920, is naturally the obvious embodiment of the Union which
strikes the observer upon first acquaintance. It cannot be emphasized too strongly, however,
that the building is, after all, but the home of an organization. This is the essential fact
which has never been forgotten by the officers of the Union. Their efforts from the first have
been to make it, both as an organization and as a building, of practical service for Michigan's
immense student body, which without the resources of a large city, needs peculiarly such headquarters
for all its wide and varied interests. Perhaps the most concise definition of the Union is
contained in the preamble of its present Constitution:

     To establish a University social and recreational center; to
     provide a meeting place for Faculty, alumni, former students and
     resident students of the University; and to help in fitting
     Michigan men for the performance of their duties as good citizens.

It is the Union as a body of students, using the building as a means to promote the best things
in college life, to bring about a closer co-ordination of all university activities, and a
more sympathetic co-operation between the undergraduates, Faculty, and alumni, that must justify
the money and energy spent in this great departure in American college life,--for there is
nothing in any American university today that approaches the Union in size or the scale upon
which its activities are planned.

The need of such a building had long been felt by the students before the first discussion
on the part of the members of the senior society, Michigamua, led to a call which brought representatives
of all the leading organizations in the University together in the spring of 1904. The idea
proved popular at once, though it was again the organization, and not the somewhat remote prospect
of a building, that won support. From the first the Union aimed to be an expression of student
life as a whole and almost immediately, side by side with an active campaign for a building,
it undertook to correlate and to unify the interests of the students in the different departments,
classes, and organizations. The alumni, too, were knit into a body which aimed consistently
to recognize the claim of the University to the regard and loyal support of every Michigan
man. The Student Council was established at the inspiration of the Union soon after its organization.
Some years later a similar movement inspired by the Union resulted in the establishment of
the University Health Service through a series of recommendations made by a committee of Union
members to the Board of Regents. Mass meetings and smokers were held and a great annual dinner
was initiated the first year, at which the ideals of the University and the aims of the Union
were discussed. Funds were raised for the portrait of President Angell by William M. Chase.
Musical shows and carnivals were held, not merely to raise money for the Union, but to bring
the student body together in one absorbing interest. In December, 1906, Judge Cooley's old
home on State Street was purchased, to be used temporarily as the Union Club House and eventually
to be replaced by the present building. The house was altered extensively,--two dining-rooms
were installed, together with other features of a club, and for nine years it served the University
well, though its facilities became increasingly inadequate as the mass of students grew.

Not for one minute, however, was the need for a greater building forgotten, and through mass
meetings, alumni dinners, and University publications, the alumni were educated as to the aims
and ideals of the organization and the vital need of a building which should adequately serve
as the center of the life of the thousands of men in the University. All this was not accomplished
without opposition, which centered largely in the rival claims of the committee charged with
the raising of funds for Alumni Memorial Hall. Fortunately this misunderstanding faded away
when the Memorial Building was completed in 1909 and the purpose of the Union became better
understood.

This long effort among the alumni eventually began to have its effect and for several years
before the actual campaign for funds for the Union was launched, alumni everywhere were asking:
"When are you going to ask us to contribute toward the new Union? I want to do something."
Yet the actual result of the campaign, when it was finally launched in 1915, was in many ways
a great surprise. Within a little over a year some $800,000 was subscribed and work on the
new building was begun. The most remarkable aspect of this response was the fact that no large
subscriptions were made,--$10,000 was the largest. In fact the majority of the subscriptions
came in the form of $50 life memberships which not only made the graduates of the University
participants in an institution concerned with the fundamentals of University life, linking
students, teachers, and alumni in a common cause, but gave the graduates a home in Ann Arbor
to which they could return as of right, asking no favors. It is doubtful if any large undertaking
in any university has ever been more widely supported by general alumni subscriptions.

The declaration of war in 1917, and the almost immediate increase in building costs, made more
difficult the completion of the building, though a supplementary campaign in 1919 increased
the funds to over the million dollars originally asked for. Even this proved inadequate and
when the Union was finally opened in the fall of 1919, there was still some $200,000 to be
raised, secured by a mortgage on the building. This, in effect, represented the increase in
the cost of building during the war. The completion of the Union was felt to be a vital matter
and while the wide-spread interest of the alumni in the building made it practically certain
that the necessary funds would be forthcoming within a few years; to delay until the full amount
was in hand would have been disastrous. During the abnormal years of 1918-19, $60,000 alone
was added to the building fund through student life memberships, while the following fall over
$110,000 more was pledged this way, a practical evidence of undergraduate interest and support.

The Union is peculiarly a Michigan product. It stands not only on the site of Judge Cooley's
old home but also on that of the boyhood home of the architects, Irving K. Pond, '79, President
of the American Institute of Architects in 1910 and 1911, and his brother Allen B. Pond, '80.
Strong and masculine in all its lines, the building throughout is a consistent interpretation
of the artistic faith of the architects, who have been bold enough to break with overworn conventions
in the design and have made it peculiarly an expression, in its whole conception as well as
in its finest details, of a distinctly American spirit. A suggestion of the English collegiate
Gothic style in its larger forms was deliberately chosen as typifying the fundamental source
of our institutions; but in the general treatment, particularly in the simple, modern, truly
American masses and details, which are everywhere full of a refined and delicate symbolism,
the building is an interpretation of the underlying spirit of American Democracy. That the
architects have been successful no one can deny who has seen the Union and has felt the rugged
beauty of its central tower, which became at once the striking feature of Ann Arbor's skyline.

The building is necessarily large; it is 168 feet in all across the front and 233 feet deep,
with four stories, a basement, and sub-basement. In addition to other usual facilities of a
large club, it contains a swimming pool (not completed in 1920), a bowling alley, an immensely
popular cafeteria for men, known as the Tap-Room, a woman's dining-room with a separate entrance,
a billiard room, with twenty-five tables, a large banquet and assembly hall, 58 by 104 feet,
for dinners, dances, and large gatherings, besides innumerable smaller rooms which can be used
either for dinners or for class and society meetings. There are in fact dining-room accommodations
for over 1,200 guests at one time. Offices and various headquarters for campus organizations
are also included as well as one feature particularly welcome to alumni, some 48 sleeping rooms
accommodating 69 visitors.

Thus the Union has realized its ideals. While the success of the Union is due to the continued
and self-sacrificing efforts of hundreds of Michigan men, students and alumni alike, special
recognition will always be due Dean Henry M. Bates, '90, of the Law School, whose strong support
and practical idealism as a member of the Board of Directors from the very earliest days carried
the project through many dark periods, as well as to the energy and enthusiasm of Homer Heath,
'07, manager of the Union Building from the first, to whom is due in no small degree the successful
outcome of the campaign for the building, and its final completion.

The control of the Union is vested in two organizations; a Board of Directors composed of students,
Faculty representatives, and alumni, which has in general the supervision of the activities
of the Union as an organization, and a Board of Governors, created upon completion of the building,
composed of the student President of the Union, one member of the Board of Regents, the Financial
Secretary appointed by the President of the University and four members appointed by the Board
of Directors of the Alumni Association, to have financial control of the building and organization
as a corporation.

With the opening of the University in 1919, when the enrolment exceeded by 1,500 the previous
record attendance in 1916, the Union entered upon a new and more effective period of service,
not entirely equipped and ready, it is true, but sufficiently prepared to justify at once the
vision of those responsible for the result. Even without any endowment it demonstrated from
the first that it could be maintained as an essentially self-supporting concern.[3]

[Footnote 3: A careful estimate, made in October, 1920, showed that an average of 7,500 persons
daily passed the doors of the Union. Some 2,200 persons were also served daily in the Tap-Room
or cafeteria, in addition to the regular dining-room service.]

As the Union served the life of the men in the University, other agencies have come to do the
same for the women. Long before the Union was even thought of, the Women's League maintained
headquarters in the parlors of Barbour Gymnasium, which, with Sarah Caswell Angell Hall and
the adjoining gymnasium, served the women well. These, with the three recently constructed
halls of residence, including the Martha Cook Building, perhaps the most beautiful and luxurious
dormitory ever built in an American university, will go far towards answering the social needs
of the women. They have at least made the general scale of living conditions far more favorable
for the girls of the University than for the men, who for many years have been sadly in need
of the facilities offered by such a building as the Union. Fortunately there is every prospect
that some dormitories for men will be forthcoming in the near future.

The religious life of the students has never been neglected, though the careful non-sectarianism
of the University led it at first to be regarded with suspicion by the various religious bodies
of the State, and their opposition, sometimes veiled, and sometimes open, proved embarrassing.
It has been shown how this sentiment was met by a prevailing clerical complexion in the Faculty
and an emphasis on daily chapel exercises which were maintained long after the practice of
considering religious affiliations as one of the prime professorial requisites was abandoned.
This emphasis on the proper observance of the Sabbath is rather amusingly illustrated in the
regular practice in those days of having the Monday Greek lesson consist of a chapter of the
Greek Testament; it being no sin to study the scriptures on Sunday. From which we might gather
that in some essentials, such as Sunday study, the student of 1850 was true grandfather of
the undergraduate of today. Every effort was made to make college regulations a substitute
for home influences, and the members of that first Faculty were all remembered for their kindly
and paternal relations with the students. It was largely because of the personal qualities
and wisdom of these men that the institution was able to steer successfully between the dangers
of religious indifference and sectarianism.

The changes from those stricter days have come gradually and as a reflection of the spirit
of the age; the scientific and not the ecclesiastical spirit rules, with the result that the
student is left more to his own devices in ordering his life. The discipline of the old days
would not be tolerated now and any tendency towards firmer regulation of undergraduate life
is often resented. The break came first, perhaps, in a new spirit of independence which followed
the fraternity crisis in 1850. This was emphasized by the fact that the students in the professional
schools were excused from compulsory church and chapel attendance, a discrimination which did
not fail to react upon the literary undergraduates. The rule still held, however, until 1871;
though the Sunday monitor who checked church attendance had long disappeared. Daily prayers
were maintained until 1895 when they were succeeded by semi-weekly vesper services, which,
in turn, were eventually discontinued. Current opinion upon this gradual change is possibly
reflected in the statement made in 1900 by President Angell:

     Where, as at the University of Michigan, the average age of the
     freshman on entering college is 19.5, it is at least open to
     discussion whether the spiritual welfare of undergraduates will be
     promoted by their being driven to religious services under fear of
     the monitor's mark.

A religious census made in 1894 showed that of approximately 3,000 students, 2,500 were church
members or church adherents, and that 301 students had become clergymen or missionaries. A
similar census of the men in 1919 showed that of a total of 5,804, 3,501 were church members,
while 943 others expressed some church preference. This included all forms of belief. These
statistics seem to indicate that there has been very little change in this respect in the last
twenty-five years, though some decrease in church attendance would not be surprising in view
of the great increase in students and the less homogeneous character of the student body. No
one familiar with the student life today, however, will question the vitality and effectiveness
of the religious influences which reach the students through the various churches and religious
organizations of Ann Arbor, particularly in view of extensive plans now under way for further
co-operation on the part of the churches.

The passing of the old Chapel in the religious life of the University was marked by the growing
strength of religious bodies among the students. The strong religious spirit of the early Faculty
was reflected by their encouragement of an organization known as the Union Missionary Society
of Inquiry, which followed the great missionary movement of the first part of the century,
and served as a rallying point for undergraduate religious life. This organization, however,
according to Professor Hinsdale, was "anything but an unmixed blessing, either to the institution
or to the students," though in what particular is not disclosed. There also existed from earliest
days, a Sunday morning service which the students conducted in the Chapel. The old Missionary
Society came to an end in 1857, to be followed by the Students' Christian Association, which
soon became one of the most effective factors in university religious life. It was the first
association of this character organized in any American college, and through what may be regarded
as a fortunate accident in its name the opportunity for membership was left open to women students
upon their admission twelve years later. This brought to it a powerful reinforcement.

The Association professed no creed, the members merely pledging themselves to religious character
and work. The meetings were held at first on the fourth floor of the old South College, but
this proved inadequate and with the coming of President Haven, the Association was established
in a room especially fitted up for it on the first floor. Eventually these quarters in turn
became too small, for, at the time of the semi-centennial celebration of 1887, when the need
for a new home for the Association was discussed, the membership of 300 was far too large for
this room. A movement for a new building arose, therefore, which led to a successful appeal
to the alumni; though it was not until June, 1891, that the Students' Christian Association
Building which stands on State Street almost directly across from University Hall was formally
dedicated. The total cost was about $40,000 and of this amount Mrs. Helen H. Newberry of Detroit
gave about $18,000; the building being known as Newberry Hall in honor of her husband, John
S. Newberry, of the class of '47.

From this time the work of the Students' Christian Association, now carried on under far more
favorable circumstances, expanded rapidly. A further extension of the religious life of the
University came in 1895, when a University Y.M.C.A. was established by some members of the
Students' Christian Association who had become dissatisfied with the older organization and
desired, moreover, to become associated with the strong international Y.M.C.A. body. This new
organization found a home eventually in McMillan Hall on the corner of State and Huron streets,
where it grew in influence with the student body until the time seemed to many propitious for
a reorganization of religious work among the students. This was effected in 1904 through the
incorporation of the old Students' Christian Association into the Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. with
separate headquarters in McMillan and Newberry Halls respectively, although the old title,
Students' Christian Association, was nominally retained.

McMillan Hall was eventually taken over by the Tappan Presbyterian Association, the owners
of the building, and the resulting need for new quarters for the men led, in 1915, to the successful
solicitation of funds for a new Y.M.C.A. building. Two years later, on March 2, 1917, the new
building, known as Lane Hall in honor of Judge V.H. Lane of the Law School, who has been President
of the Association for many years, was formally opened. It stands on the corner of State and
Washington streets, and represents an outlay of approximately $125,000, of which amount $60,000
was contributed by the Rockefeller Foundation under the provision that a like amount be raised
within a certain period. It was designed by William A. Otis, 78e, of Chicago. Dignified and
simple in its general architectural lines, it is a distinct addition to the public buildings
of Ann Arbor, and in many respects represents a new style of building for a Y.M.C.A. This results
from the fact that it is designed primarily to serve only the religious interests of the students,
and does not aim to assume the broader social functions of the Union or the physical training
supplied in Waterman Gymnasium. Grouped around the large hall or lobby in which the work is
centered, are rooms for the officers of the Association and offices for the pastors of the
Ann Arbor churches. A large library and adjoining study is also situated on the first floor.
A small but most attractive auditorium, seating some 450 persons, occupies the second floor,
with a dining-room and four class rooms at either end. The basement contains a social or club
room and additional class rooms.

A final modification of the religious activities in the University in 1919 resulted in an approximate
return to the plan of organization of the old S.C.A., under which the Association became a
clearing house for all the churches within the University community. Under this plan all students
who are church members become de facto members of the Association, and, as far as their church
affiliations permit, of the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A.; while the two buildings, Lane Hall and
Newberry Hall, are considered exchange centers for all the churches and religious organizations,
including the Jewish Student Congregation.

No single factor in the life of the University has been more effective than the close relationship
of the Faculty and students with the town, an entente which has been carefully fostered by
the Ann Arbor churches. A large proportion of the Faculty have always been church members,
and this has led to very active efforts to reach the students through the employment of student
pastors, and the establishment of several church guild houses, which include Harris Hall, Protestant
Episcopal; McMillan and Sackett Halls, Presbyterian; and Tucker Memorial, Baptist; all on Huron
Street, while across from University Hall is the Catholic Chapel which was remodeled from the
old home of Professor Morris. There is also every prospect that a number of new church buildings
of this character will be erected in the immediate neighborhood of the Campus within a few years.

Michigan students have many songs which celebrate not only the delights and care-free charm
of college life but also their regard for their University. Some of them are among the most
inspiring and beautiful of all the great body of melodies which our American colleges have
inspired. They have become an essential of undergraduate life and bear most effective witness
to the sentiment of love and loyalty which, though often hidden, binds the student to his alma
mater.

Always first among Michigan songs is "The Yellow and the Blue," written by Charles M. Gayley,
'78, now of the University of California, when an Assistant Professor of English in the University.
It first appeared in a pamphlet entitled "Songs of the Yellow and the Blue," published in 1889.
This collection included a number of songs which have always been favorites, by Professor Gayley
and Professor Fred N. Scott, '84, for which the music, in many cases, was written by Dr. A.A.
Stanley. The words of "The Yellow and the Blue," which are set to the air of Balfe's "Pirate's
Chorus," are as follows:

    Sing to the colors that float in the light;
      Hurrah for the Yellow and Blue!
    Yellow the stars as they ride thro' the night,
      And reel in a rollicking crew;
    Yellow the fields where ripens the grain,
    And mellow the moon on the harvest wain;
      Hail!
    Hail to the colors that float in the light;
    Hurrah for the Yellow and Blue!

    Blue are the billows that bow to the sun
      When yellow-robed morning is due;
    Blue are the curtains that evening has spun,
      The slumbers of Phoebus to woo;
    Blue are the blossoms to memory dear,
    And blue is the sapphire, and gleams like a tear;--
      Hail!
    Hail to the ribbons that nature has spun;
    Hurrah for the Yellow and Blue!

    Here's to the college whose colors we wear;
      Here's to the hearts that are true!
    Here's to the maid of the golden hair,
      And eyes that are brimming with blue!
    Garlands of blue-bells and maize intertwine;
    And hearts that are true and voices combine;--
      Hail!
    Hail to the college whose colors we wear;
    Hurrah for the Yellow and Blue!

The popularity of the old song to Dr. Tappan and the other members of the early Faculty, adapted
from the old church tune: "Where, Oh Where, are the Hebrew Children?" has been suggested. It
is probably one of the oldest of Michigan songs, and has survived through a succession of student
and faculty generations; though now it is one of the least of many, and is only heard in the
variation,--

    Where, Oh where, are the verdant freshmen?
    They've gone out from their prescribed English,
    Safe now in the Sophomore class,

and so on.

Most of the songs of earlier days are now forgotten. In 1864-65 the Palladium offered a prize
of $10 for the best original song, and of the two which were considered of equal merit, one
at least survived for many years and was sung at all great University occasions. It was set
to the air of the Marseillaise, and the first stanza is as follows:

    Come, jolly boys, and lift your voices,
      Ring out, ring out, one hearty song;
    Praise her in whom each son rejoices,
      And let the notes be loud and long.
    'Tis Alma Mater wakes the spirit,
      And prompts the strain of harmony--
      Oh, sing to her triumphantly!
    The glorious theme--do ye not hear it?
    Hurrah! Hurrah! ye sons
      By Alma Mater blest!
    All hail! All hail! her honored name,
      The pride of all the West!

Professor Gayley wrote several other songs which have long been deservedly popular. One of
them, "Birds of a Feather," arranged by Professor Stanley to the "Eton Boating Song," is as
follows:

    O whiles we tell of rushes,--
      O whiles we sing and sup,--
    And sip the wine that flushes,
      In Hebe's amber cup,
    And toast the maid that blushes
      And smiles, and then looks up,
    And toast the maid that blushes,
    And smiles, and then looks up!

    In sad or singing weather,
      In hours of gloom or glee;
    Birds of a feather
      We haunt the same old tree,--
    And sing, sing together,
      O Michigan, of thee!

Another song by Professor Fred N. Scott which was popular for many years, usually known as
"Ann Arbor, 'tis of thee we sing," has fallen from its former esteem, because it was sung to
the tune of "The Watch on the Rhine." The words of the first verse are as follows:

    Ann Arbor, 'tis of thee we sing,
    From thee our choicest blessings spring;
    Accept the tribute of our song,
    O Alma Mater, wise and strong.

    We love thy classic shades and shrines,
    We love thy murm'ring elms and pines;
    Where'er our future homes shall be,
    Our hearts, our hopes are all with thee.

Two of Michigan's most beautiful anthems, it must be confessed with regret, have come of late
upon somewhat evil days. The reason probably lies in the smaller proportion of students of
classical training. Yet "Laudes Atque Carmina" cannot be surpassed in the sonorous beauty of
Professor Gayley's words and the majestic exaltation of the air, written by Dr. Stanley.

    Laudes atque carmina,
      Nec hodie nes cras,
    Sed omnia per tempora,--
      Dum locum habeas,
    Tibi sint dulcissima,
      O Universitas;
    At hostes, Pol, perniciter
      Eant eis korakas.

    Chorus:
    O Gloria, Victoria,
      O Decus omnium,
    O salve Universitas,
      Michiganensium, Michiganensium.

    O clara Universitas,--
      Nec merum Caecubum,
    Nec flores nimium breves,
      Nec nard' Assyrium,--
    At gloriam, victoriam,
      Vovemus merito;
    Nos tui cives, juvenes,
      Tui perpetuo!

Scarcely less beautiful though apparently somewhat too full of classical allusions for the
taste of the modern undergraduate is the "Goddess of the Inland Seas," the words of which,
by Professor Gayley, are set to an old air by Joh. Peters.

    Sing no more the fair Aegean,
      Where the floating Cyclads shine,
    Nor the honey'd slopes Hyblaean,
      Nor the blue Sicilian brine,
    Sing no storied realms of morning
      Rob'd in twilight memories,--
    Sing the land beyond adorning,
      With her zone of inland seas.

    Lo, the sacred fires of knowledge
      In thy temple are enshrined,--
    Through the cloisters of thy college
      Choruses eternal wind!
    And all other incense scorning,
      Michigan, they bring thee these
    Hearts of ours, and songs of morning,
      Goddess of the inland seas.

The foregoing songs are all of a somewhat earlier generation. To these one more should be added.
"The Friar's Song," sung for many years by "The Friars," a convivial student club which was
eventually suppressed. The organization has lived, however, in the memories of many graduates
and in the words and music of this song which was composed and written by the members as they
drank and sang around their long table. The words are credited to Harold M. Bowman, '00.

    Where no one asks the "who" or "why";
    Where no one doth the sinner ply
    With his embarrassments of guile;
    Where's ne'er a frown but brings a smile,
    And cares are crimes,--'tis sin to sigh,
    'Tis wrong to let a jest go by,
    And hope is truth, and life is nigh,
    The bourns of the Enchanted Isle--
      In College Days.

    Then raise the rosy goblet high,--
    The singer's chalice,--and belie
    The tongues that trouble and defile;
    For we have yet a little while
    To linger,--You and Youth and I,
      At Michigan.

Many beautiful songs have been added to the University treasury by the various Michigan Union
Operas, of which not a few have survived the ephemeral popularity of the generations which
witnessed the performances. These include, "When Night Falls, Dear," from "Michigenda," by
Roy Dickinson Welch, '09, who also furnished the music for "A Faithful Pipe to Smoke," from
"Culture," the words for which were written by Donal Hamilton Haines, '09. The opera "Koanzaland,"
by Donald A. Kahn, '07-'10, with the music by Earl V. Moore, '12, furnished two good songs,
"In College Days" and "Michigan, Good-Bye" (with the collaboration of J. Fred Lawton, '11),
while "Contrarie Mary" furnished a second "Friar's Song," by Robert G. Beck, 13l, and Willis
A. Diekema, '14. All these songs, and many others, are now collected in a song-book.

Two ever-popular marches celebrate Michigan's prowess in athletics. "The Victors," by Louis
Elbel, '96-'99, never fails to thrill a Michigan man when the band comes on the field, ushering
in the team to its great strain:

    Hail! to the victors valiant,
    Hail! to the conq'ring heroes, hail!
    Hail! to Michigan,
    The champions of the West.

Though these words are somewhat too grandiloquent for all occasions, the same spirit which
inspires the students to bare their heads and sing "The Yellow and the Blue" at all the great
football games, whether in victory or defeat, prompts the band to head the students' march
back from the field to the stirring strains of this University march, whether its sentiment
is justified or not. Hardly less popular is the football song, "Varsity," written by Professor
Earl V. Moore, '12, for which the words were furnished by J. Fred Lawton, '11.

    Varsity,
    Down the field, never yield,
    Raise high your shield!
    March on to victory
    For Michigan,
    And the Maize and Blue.
    Oh, Varsity, we're for you,
    Here for you, to cheer for you,--
    We have no fear for you,
    Oh, Varsity.

Nor should another exceedingly popular song of the present time be overlooked:

    I want to go back to Michigan,
    To dear Ann Arbor town,
    Back to Joe's and the Orient,
    Back to some of the money I spent.

    I want to go back to Michigan
    To dear Ann Arbor town,--
    I want to go back; I've got to go back,--
    To Michigan.

This song has also been popular at Minnesota, it is said, where, during the long period of
Michigan victories in football which was at last broken in 1919, it was sung with the same
words but in a somewhat different spirit.

The official colors of the University are maize and azure blue. Blue was used officially by
the University from early days; but it was not until the class of 1867 chose the maize and
azure blue as emblematic of the University that the names of the colors were definitely fixed.
As for the colors themselves, they have varied widely, and it was not until 1912 that the exact
shades were determined by a committee appointed by the University Senate.

There is little doubt but that originally the colors were a deep blue and the accepted color
of Indian corn or maize, as is shown in the ribbons on old diplomas and dance programmes. But
gradually the colors faded; the blue particularly, from almost a navy blue to a "baby blue,"
while the maize became an expressionless pale yellow. These colors were entirely ineffective
for decorations, and made it necessary for the Athletic Association to employ shades entirely
different from those generally regarded as the true University colors. It is quite possible
that a misinterpretation of the words of the song "The Yellow and the Blue" had something to
do with the alteration from the original brighter colors.

An inquiry into what "azure blue" really was, soon revealed the fact that it was generally
defined as the clear blue color of the sky or of the sea reflecting it, and was further described
as that of the semi-precious stone lapis lazuli. Cobalt and prussian blue were also given as
synonyms. With this clear definition in mind, the committee was able to fix the colors, and
Michigan now has a clear deep blue and the yellow of Indian corn, with the exact shades officially
fixed by samples preserved among the University's records.

CHAPTER X

FRATERNITIES AND STUDENT ACTIVITIES

Clubs and societies, organized for almost every conceivable purpose, lay and academic, have
always played an important rôle in undergraduate affairs and have formed the most characteristic
avenue for self-expression outside the class room. Many, if not most, of these organizations
have had only a brief existence. Others, in one form or another, have continued through long
periods, and have often exercised a strong, though not always an obvious, influence in the
whole fabric of university life. Within the last twenty-five years, too, athletics have come
to have a predominant interest, but this aspect of student life at Michigan will be discussed
in a separate chapter. Aside from the organizations which have accompanied this overwhelming
preoccupation of the masculine student, probably the most conspicuous evidence of the gregarious
tendencies of the undergraduate have been the fraternities, and following the introduction
of co-education, the sororities, as they soon came to be called. After the great struggle between
the Faculty and the fraternities which culminated in 1850, the fraternities came to have an
acknowledged place in undergraduate affairs. New chapters soon followed after the first three
had made their place secure and within thirty years or so several of the older societies had
grown sufficiently in prestige, and particularly in alumni support, to begin the practice of
owning their own fraternity houses that has now become the rule. The first thought, nowadays,
of any newly established fraternity is to find ways and means for building or buying a chapter
house.

At first, nearly two-thirds of the students were fraternity members; but the extraordinary
growth of the University soon reduced the proportion of fraternity men. This came partly as
a result of the relative slowness of the national bodies to establish new chapters in competition
with the societies already on the ground, and partly because of the reluctance of the fraternities
themselves to increase the size of their chapters or to take in students from the purely professional
schools. For these reasons the percentage of fraternity men was reduced to about one-third
the total number of students, a proportion which remained fairly constant for many years. The
rise of fraternities in the professional schools and the comparatively recent establishment
of many new fraternities, however, has brought the percentage up somewhat, though the growth
in general attendance during the same period has prevented any marked increase in the relative
numbers of fraternity members over the "independents."

Following the establishment of the first three fraternities, Chi Psi and Beta Theta Pi in 1845
and Alpha Delta Phi in 1846, whose early adventures have been noted, some twenty-eight other
general fraternities have been established. Among the first of these were Delta Kappa Epsilon,
1855; Sigma Phi, 1858; Zeta Psi, 1858; Psi Upsilon, 1865; Beta Theta Pi, which had lapsed and
was re-established in 1867; Delta Tau Delta, 1874, re-established 1900; Phi Kappa Psi, 1875;
Delta Upsilon, 1876; Sigma Chi, 1877; Phi Delta Theta, 1864, re-established in 1887; Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, 1888, and Theta Delta Chi in 1889. Since 1890 this list has been more than doubled
and includes the re-establishment in 1902 of Phi Gamma Delta originally established in 1885,
and Alpha Tau Omega first established in 1888 and re-established in 1904.

There are now thirteen sororities in the University. The establishment of the first one caused
great amusement among the fraternities. This was Kappa Alpha Theta, which came in 1879 but
fell by the wayside six years later and was not revived until 1893. The second arrival on the
scene, Gamma Phi Beta, came in 1882, followed by Delta Gamma in 1885, and Collegiate Sorosis
in 1886. The first professional fraternity to be established was Phi Delta Phi, a law fraternity,
which organized its parent chapter in the University in 1869. It was not until 1882 that the
medical fraternity, Nu Sigma Nu, and the dental fraternity, Delta Sigma Delta, established
their Alpha chapters at Michigan. Since that time fourteen more professional fraternities have
appeared.

These fraternities, together with the three house clubs, Trigon, Emerites and Monks, which
in effect are maintained as fraternities, bring the total number of these organizations in
the University to sixty-four, with an estimated active membership of something over 2,000 University
men and women.

The first fraternity to establish a chapter house was Alpha Delta Phi, which occupied in the
college year 1875-76, the old "Octagon House," later the home of Professor Winchell, on the
site of the present Hill Auditorium. The present Psi Upsilon chapter house on the corner of
South University Avenue and State Street was, however, the first chapter house built for that
purpose. It was erected during the year 1879-80 and preceded by four years the erection of
the old Alpha Delta Phi house, the second fraternity house to be built. Sigma Phi occupied,
in 1882, the old home of Professor Moses Coit Tyler, on the beautiful site of the present chapter
house. The Delta Kappa Epsilon house was built in 1889; the old Governor Ashley property on
Monroe Street was bought by Delta Upsilon in 1887; Zeta Psi bought the property on which the
present house stands in 1890; while Phi Kappa Psi bought, in 1893, the picturesque Millen property
on the triangle between Washtenaw and Hill streets they had occupied for ten years, one of
Ann Arbor's landmarks which has only recently been removed to make way for a new chapter house.
At the present time practically all of the fraternities either own or rent chapter houses;
ordinarily purchasing the property with alumni assistance, and issuing mortgages, largely held
by the alumni, or the national organization, for any unpaid balance.

A comparison of this record of fraternity establishment with similar figures from other universities
will show that Michigan was one of the first of the larger institutions in which the fraternity
system took deep root. Student life at Michigan has always been colored by it, and the mass
of students, from the first, has been divided into fraternity and non-fraternity elements;
an unofficially recognized distinction which has had far-reaching effects in all student affairs,
particularly class-elections, student athletics, journalism, and general society membership.
The "independent" suffers no particular social disability, save as he misses the pleasant club
life of the fraternity. Often, if he is a man of marked ability, he finds his independence
a distinct advantage in college affairs, for non-fraternity men have always been in sufficient
majority to see that the choice positions go to the "independent" representatives. Within the
fraternities, too, there has always existed a division between the older and the more recent
organization which was, for a long time, almost as marked as the division between fraternity
and non-fraternity men. This came through the rivalry that arose between two groups of fraternities.
The first, known as the "Palladium," took its name from an annual, first published in 1859,
which came to represent the interests of nine fraternities in college up to 1876, while a second
group was made up of the fraternities established after that date. The break came through the
establishment of an "anti-secret" fraternity, Delta Upsilon, which the older fraternities refused
to recognize though it later assumed a passive rôle, and became merely non-secret. This organization,
however, with the addition of the new fraternities as they were established, formed an opposition
to the older societies who stubbornly maintained their control of the Palladium. This continued
until 1891 when the Palladium finally absorbed the Castalian, the annual of the independents,
and Res Gestae, the law annual, and became at last a representative University publication.

Although in 1897 the name was changed to the present Michiganensian, the spirit of the old
"Palladium," as an inner ring of fraternities, still existed, particularly in the administration
of the annual Junior Hop, which had been a definitely organized student event at least as far
back as 1877, and had been preceded by a similar ball given by the Seniors since 1868. The
older fraternities long maintained an exclusive control of the Junior Hop. But in 1896 the
out-fraternities and the independents protested to the Regents, who sustained their contention,
that the Hop, given in the University buildings, should include representatives from the entire
Junior class. The Palladium fraternities refused to participate, and that year two "Hops" were
given, one by eight fraternities in Toledo, D.K.E. not being represented, and one in the Gymnasium
by the more recent fraternities and the independents. The question arose again the next year
but was eventually settled by a plan of organization admitting representation upon the committee
from all fraternities and the independents in rotation.

The establishment in 1914 of an Inter-Fraternity Conference marked a further step in the relations
of these organizations to the University. For some time "the fraternity situation," as it was
usually spoken of, had been increasingly unsatisfactory. Ideals of scholarship were low, or
non-existent, in practically all of the fraternities. The Junior Hop had become so uncontrolled
and extravagant that the Faculty had abolished it,--while "rushing" methods, particularly the
practice of pledging boys long before they were ready for college, called for drastic action.
This was strongly recommended by the Committee on Student Affairs in its 1913 Report, and the
fraternities were accordingly given notice to "clean house." The result was the establishment
of the Inter-Fraternity Conference and the adoption of a constitution just in time to avoid
decisive action by the University authorities, but not without great opposition from the Palladium
group. The most striking provisions of this constitution are: the abolition of premature pledging
through a provision that all pledging must be done in Ann Arbor and not before the tenth day
previous to the opening of classes; the prohibition of any freshman living in a fraternity
house, a rule since modified; and most important of all, a provision that no initiate shall
have less than eleven hours of credits of at least C grade, and that no student on probation
or warning shall be initiated. The sororities took similar action in a provision limiting the
amount and character of the rushing and establishing a fixed day for the extending of "bids"
to be sent out from one central office.

These efforts have all had a most favorable effect on fraternity scholarship and general deportment,
which has been further stimulated by the publication of a scholarship chart showing the exact
relative standing of all the fraternities and house clubs in the University. This has revealed
a gradual rise in the average of fraternity scholarship, though few fraternities, it must be
acknowledged, have ever exceeded the average for the whole student body, which is between C
and B grades. There is significant evidence of the success of co-education, too, in the fact
that few sororities have ever fallen below this average. The publication of this chart has
at least had the effect of establishing a healthy rivalry among the fraternities as regards
avoiding the last place on the list, whatever their attitude may be as regards first place;
while the scholastic standings of the various fraternities proved their value immediately as
an argument with prospective initiates, something almost inconceivable fifteen years ago. The
unequivocal evidence furnished by these charts has also led to numerous investigations and
subsequent action on the part of the alumni of many of the fraternities.

Student journalism, though it reflects in the rise and fall of paper after paper the changing
complexion of successive student generations, is, after all, one of the best mirrors of undergraduate
life. It is no surprising matter, therefore, even though it is to be regretted, that no student
journal has survived from the University's earlier period, although the Michiganensian has
a gallery of ancestors which, at least, establishes its lineage. In the very earliest period,
whatever literary efforts there were, were lost or preserved only in the manuscript papers
of the early literary societies, which provided the only practical outlet for the student who
wanted to write. Paper and printing were too expensive for actual publication, so it was not
until June, 1857, that the first real student paper appeared, with the impressive title of
Peninsular Phoenix and University Gazetteer, a semi-annual four page sheet whose first page
was devoted to lists of University officers and secret-society members, while its existence
as a gazetteer was justified by a very few "connubial" items.

The title of this publication was truly prophetic for its successor, The University Phoenix,
arose from its ashes the following November,--in the form of an eight-page monthly, the first
number of which was largely devoted to a long editorial, an article on the University Museum
of Arts, and another on the Detroit Observatory. This was published by Green and Company, an
organization which consisted of one S.B. Green, a student of the class of '60 who was a printer,
and a non-existent company, though it was supposed to have the support of the three literary
societies. Another publication which had appeared between the two issues of the Phoenix was
the one issue of the University Register.

Though a list of fraternity men was published in all of these sheets, the fraternities were
not satisfied and decided to establish a paper of their own. Thus was born, in 1859, the Palladium,
a four-page paper which for some time appeared semi-annually. As the first issue was apparently
listed as number 2, it is probable that it was considered the reincarnation of the Phoenix.
In the issue for December, 1860, the editor reveals the fact that 800 copies were printed at
a cost of $85. It was then a booklet of less than 50 pages, bound in glazed paper, with almost
no literary matter included, although the first number did contain a "Freshman Song," the first
bit of Michigan undergraduate verse. Eventually, as we have seen, it became part of the Michiganensian.

The Palladium was not long without a rival, which came with the establishment of the Independent,
"a small quarterly of some forty violently written pages," illustrating "not only the bitter
feeling between the societies and the independents, but also the hostile attitude of students
towards the Faculty." It lasted for just four issues and was succeeded by the University Magazine,
which quietly died after one gasp, leaving the independents with no representation until 1866
when the Castalia appeared. This survived through five issues, not to appear again until 1890
when the independents revived it as the Castalian, also merged in 1893 in the Michiganensian.

A combination of two publications which followed the old Castalia in 1867, the University Chronicle,
an eight-page fortnightly of sometimes "rather hot discussions," and the University Magazine,
which had been a most creditable student enterprise, produced one of the long-standing student
papers, the Chronicle, the first number of which appeared in September, 1869. For the first
few years of its existence, it was one of the best college papers in the country, though it
made great capital of the hostile attitude of the students towards the Regents and Professors
and undertook to speak boldly of "the evils that have crept into the University through the
mismanagement of the Regents." It appeared at first as a large 16-page pamphlet, three columns
to the page. At the same time the Chronicle was established, a sophomore annual appeared, The
Oracle, which had a long and checkered career as a champion of co-education.

This triumvirate of student journals held sway with only occasional rivalry until a disputed
election in 1882 resulted in the establishment of a new fortnightly, the Argonaut, as a rival
to the Chronicle. This journal became a weekly in 1884. The two soon became the organs of opposing
fraternity factions, and assuming a political rather than a literary character, lost ground
rapidly. An eventual consolidation did not save them and the last number of the combined journals
appeared in 1891. They were succeeded by two new ventures, the Daily, which was started in
September, 1890, still with us as an institution in undergraduate life, and the Inlander, whose
long and honorable, if somewhat spasmodic, career as a literary magazine only came to an end
finally in 1918. Wrinkle, Michigan's first humorous paper, appeared in 1893 and was immediately
popular. It survived until 1905, when it also died of inanition, to be succeeded after a few
years by the present Gargoyle of varying merit. With the first discontinuance of the Inlander,
about the same time Wrinkle died, the student body was left with only the Daily and the Michiganensian
as unsatisfactory vehicles for purely literary efforts, save occasional fugitive sheets which
usually passed away almost before they appeared. In 1916 the Inlander was re-established but
seemed unable to make a place for itself and was succeeded in 1919 by the present Chimes. Of
departmental publications only the Technic, established by the engineers in 1885, is still
in existence and thus may honorably claim to be the oldest student journal in the University.

Uncertain and varying as the careers of most of these publications have been, they have filled
their place in the student scheme of existence; at least they have given valuable experience
to their amateur editors and publishers and have been a needed vehicle for the expression of
student opinion. The long list of editors includes the names of many alumni who have made their
mark, not only in the world of letters, but in many other fields. The papers that survived
longest usually lived by virtue of their independence; those that died, did so because they
filled no recognized need or were too crude or too conscientiously academic. Of the present-day
publications, the Daily and the Michiganensian are apparently fixtures. The Daily sometimes
tries all too apparently to ape the defects and not the merits of the greater journals and
suffers from a constantly changing personnel and lack of experienced editors, but it is improving
and benefiting through a certain degree of co-operation with the classes in journalism in the
University. The editor and business manager are given a salary and are subject to close supervision
by the Board in Control of Student Publications, which has so wisely administered the affairs
of the various papers that a fund of some $30,000 has been saved towards the establishment
of a University Press. The same is true of the Michiganensian, which has come to be of impressive
bulk, and is usually on the whole a well edited and printed annual reference book with numerous
illustrations and data concerning all of the student organizations. A directory of students
in the University is also published under the supervision of the Board in Control as well as
a tri-weekly paper, the Wolverine, by the students of the Summer Session. The alumni publication,
the Michigan Alumnus, which first appeared in 1894, will be mentioned in a later chapter.

Interest in public speaking and debating has existed almost from the first days of the University,
though it was only after the establishment of the Department of Oratory that instruction began
to be given systematically and consecutively. Before that time, some elocutionary training
had been given by Professor Moses Coit Tyler in combination with his work in English Literature,
and later by President Hutchins, then instructor in Rhetoric and History, who introduced what
was then known as the Junior Debates. These were continued by his successor, Isaac N. Demmon,
who was to become in a few years Professor of English Literature. The great increase in the
work in composition and public speaking which came with the broadening of the course of study
in 1878, however, led to the abandonment of these debates and instruction in the subject fell
to a low ebb until Professor Trueblood came in 1884 to give one-third of his time to this work.
His success in this field eventually led to his appointment as Professor of Oratory in 1890.

But if the powers that be were slow to recognize the desire of the students for instruction
in public speaking, there were many more or less unofficial avenues for those who desired to
give vent to their oratorical impulses. Two escape valves existed almost from the first, the
old literary societies, and the class exhibitions and Commencement programs which have been
mentioned. The first literary society, Phi Phi Alpha, was organized in 1842, to be followed,
after an internal struggle in the older society, by Alpha Nu, which has survived to the present
time and has long been the oldest of student organizations. Adelphi, the other existing society,
was not started until shortly before the demise of Phi Phi Alpha in 1860. The traditional programmes
of these societies were largely orations, essays, and concluding debates in which such momentous
questions as,

     Resolved: That the benefits of novel reading will compensate for
     its injuries.

     Resolved: That we have sufficient evidence for belief in ethereal
     spirits.

     Resolved: That brutes reason.

     Resolved: That woman has as much influence in the nation as man.

     Resolved: That students should not form matrimonial engagements
     while in college.

These societies also maintained literary papers. Phi Phi Alpha had the "Castalia," Alpha Nu,
the "Sybil," and Adelphi, "The Hesperian." In 1868 they established a series of prize contests,
debates for sophomores and juniors, and orations for seniors. For these first and second prizes
were awarded at public exhibitions, which never failed to arouse great interest. This traditional
emphasis on public speaking has been maintained consistently down to the present time, and
many distinguished alumni of the University have been numbered among the contestants.

For many years the two societies Alpha Nu and Adelphi have occupied two rooms on the fourth
floor of University Hall, the only student organizations entirely independent of Faculty patronage
thus recognized. Why they have not come to occupy the prominent place that two similar organizations
hold at Princeton, the Clio and Whig societies, whose two marble temples are one of the distinguishing
marks of Princeton's Campus, is a matter for speculation. Probably the fact that Princeton
long remained a college while Michigan early became a university with a more inclusive curriculum,
will best explain it. As it is, however, these societies have in the past done a great service
for the University and deserve to survive. They are not, however, the only student organizations
which have had exercise in public speaking as their reason for existence, for many such have
come and gone, only to be remembered by their own student generation and by the heavy weight
of their classical names. Such were a multitude of debating clubs which sprang up in the "60's"
under such impressive titles as "Homotrapezoi," "Philozetian," "Panarmonian," or, in the Law
Department, the less pretentious "Douglas," "Clay," and "Lincoln" Societies which were the
forerunners of the present Jeffersonian and Webster Societies. A latter-day organization has
been the long popular "Toastmaster's Club" which aims to perpetuate the doubtful joys of after-dinner
oratory. Other means of self-expression for those oratorically bent, were those formal exhibitions
of which the long-popular annual Junior Exhibition was the most prominent. Nowadays, the only
vestige of student participation in programs of this character remains in the annual Class
Day Exercises.

Another organization which stimulated interest in platform speaking was the Students' Lecture
Association, which was until recently one of the most successful undergraduate enterprises.
It was organized in September, 1854, and continued for nearly sixty years to bring distinguished
and sometimes, judged by later-day standards, undistinguished speakers before student audiences.
It ceased to exist in 1912, but only after the broadening interests of the University began
to attract to Ann Arbor many prominent visitors whose addresses have been usually given free
of charge, while at the same time the multiplication of other forms of entertainment lessened
the attractions of the traditional lecture course. But an association which, in its day, brought
to Ann Arbor such men as Emerson, Bayard Taylor, Horace Mann, Wendell Phillips, Theodore Parker,
Henry Ward Beecher, Winston Spencer Churchill, Henry M. Stanley, Wu Ting Fang, and Presidents
Harrison, McKinley, Cleveland, and Wilson, played no minor rôle in University life. That the
privilege of hearing some of these speakers was not always properly appreciated is shown by
the comments of the editor of one of the local papers on a lecture by Emerson.

     The subject of the lecture was "Human Beauty," rather a singular
     subject, it strikes us, from so homely a man as Mr. Emerson. Mr.
     Emerson is not a pleasing speaker--in fact, is an awkward speaker,
     and yet he demands the utmost attention of every hearer.

With the gradual organization of the Department of Oratory, public speaking soon came to have
a recognized place among student interests, and eventually inter-collegiate debates and contests
were organized to stimulate student interest. These were first inaugurated by the Oratorical
Association, which, soon after its establishment in 1889, issued an invitation to neighboring
universities to form an Oratorical Union. This resulted in the Northern Oratorical League,
which has long maintained an annual series of inter-collegiate contests and debates. The representatives
of the University are selected only after several contests and preliminary debates in the various
societies, with an average of at least fifty candidates participating. Michigan has always
maintained a leading position in this form of undergraduate activity and of the twenty-nine
inter-collegiate contests in which she has taken part she has won nine first honors and four
second honors. The University has also participated in some sixty-four inter-collegiate debates,
of which she has won forty-two; her nearest rival being Northwestern, with nine victories.
Eleven of these debates were won in succession, and twenty-four by the unanimous decision of
the judges.

This form of inter-collegiate rivalry has been greatly stimulated by a medal and testimonial
of $85 given to the winner of the annual University Contest by the Chicago alumni and by similar
prizes to the winners of the inter-collegiate contests and debates.

Interest in the drama on the part of the students was of comparatively slow development, though
in recent years it has come to be one of the most conspicuous "student activities." While a
"Shakespeare Club" existed as early as 1860, the stage did not hold a particularly high place
in public regard in the University's earlier years, and good plays were seldom seen in Ann
Arbor. The celebrated actress, Mrs. Scott Siddons, gave several recitals in the seventies,
while a performance of Hamlet, given in 1879 by Lawrence Barrett, was received with the highest
praise. His visit gave an impetus to dramatic affairs and led to the organization of a Barrett
Club which gave a performance of Dollars and Cents in 1880--the first recorded amateur dramatic
performance in the University. But it was not until two years later that the University's dramatic
history may be said to have begun with the two Commencement plays, the Adelphi of Terence,
given in Latin under the direction of Professor Charles M. Gayley, '74, and Racine's Les Plaideurs,
in French, under Assistant Professor Paul R. de Pont of the Department of French.

From that time on interest in college dramatics steadily increased. Professor de Pont, whose
interest in student life never flagged, took a leading part in the presentation of several
plays, and one opera, Gilbert and Sullivan's Iolanthe (1883), by companies of students and
faculty members. Largely through his efforts a University Dramatic Club was organized in 1885
and gave such plays as A Scrap of Paper (1885) and The Memoirs of the Devil (1888), which "caused
the student body to sit up and take notice." Plays of this lighter character were all that
were attempted until 1890, when another Latin play, Plautus' Menaechmi, was given so successfully
under the direction of Professor J.H. Drake, '85, that it was later presented in Chicago. This
was the last effort in classical drama until twenty-six years later, when the Menaechmi was
repeated with great success in Hill Auditorium on March 30, 1916. This was followed in 1917
by Euripides' Iphigenia Among the Taurians, given by the students in Greek, for which special
music in the ancient Greek modes was written by Dr. A.A. Stanley.

The old Dramatic Club was eventually disbanded in the early '90's, only to be succeeded by
another student organization, the still existing Comedy Club, which has had a varying career.
Soon after its organization it became an exceedingly close corporation among certain fraternities
and confined its offerings to light comedies and farces of the type that offered no great difficulties,
such as The Private Secretary, All the Comforts of Home, and My Friend from India. A reorganization
of the Club in 1908 made membership dependent upon real ability, and since that time Farquahar's
Recruiting Officer, (1908); Barrie's Admirable Crichton, (1909); Gogol's Inspector, (1910);
Percy McKaye's Scarecrow, (1914), and Barrie's Alice Sit by the Fire, (1919), are fairly representative
of the plays given.

The reorganization of the Comedy Club came largely because of the successful efforts of the
Deutscher Verein and the Cercle Français, to give a series of the best plays in German and
French literature. The list of these productions has been a long and creditable one, those
in German including, after their first performance, Der Hochzeitsreise by Benedix, in 1904;
Die Journalisten, (1906 and 1912); Minna von Barnhelm, (1908); Egmont, (1909); and Der Dummkopf,
(1911). Since the French Circle made its début in 1907, with Les Deux Timides by Labiche, and
Molière's Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme, several other comedies by Molière have been most successfully
given; as well as Beaumarchais' Barbier de Seville, (1909); Rostand's Les Romanesques, (1911);
and Pailleron's modern comedy Le Monde ou l'On s'Ennuie, (1912).

Somewhat different from these revivals of the best in dramatic literature, have been the far
more popular Michigan Union Operas, written and produced almost entirely by students. Originally
designed as a means for raising funds for the Union, always needed, particularly in the earliest
days, they speedily became an institution in undergraduate life. All the librettos, with one
or two exceptions, have been the work of students, and the same is true of the music, which
has often developed an extraordinary vein of undergraduate talent. In fact, more than once
it has been the music which has given these operas their chief merit. Save for one war-time
emergency, when University women participated, the entire cast has always been recruited from
the men of the University and the burlesque of the "chorus girls" has always been one of the
perennial charms of the opera in undergraduate estimation. The first opera, given in 1908,
was entitled Michigenda and became instantly popular, not only because of its novelty and the
excellence of its music, but also because its plot was built about the local color of undergraduate
life, a precedent which, unfortunately, has not always been followed in later operas. The 1920
opera, George Did It, was artistically as well as financially the most successful of the Union's
productions. Five or six performances are usually given in Ann Arbor, and of late years a trip
during the spring vacation through the cities of Michigan and occasionally to Chicago has drawn
large audiences of alumni and others, attracted by the real merit and novelty of this student
effort. Not to be outdone by the men of the University, the junior class women have also, for
some years, presented a similar extravaganza which, though not open to the general public,
is always noted for its cleverness and real humor.

For some twelve years also a feature of the Commencement program has been the annual play given
by the senior girls, usually on Tuesday evening of Commencement Week. The list of plays presented
includes, She Stoops to Conquer, (1905); The Knight of the Burning Pestle, (1906); Cranford,
(1908); Euripides' Alcestis, (1912), in which the classical entrance to Alumni Memorial Hall
was used most effectively; Prunella, (1914); The Piper, (1916); and in 1919, Percy McKaye's
A Thousand Years Ago. Within recent years, "Masques," an organization of University women,
has given unusually artistic performances of Pinero's The Amazons, (1918), and Barrie's Quality
Street, (1919). The Department of Oratory has also interested itself in the drama and is responsible
for several well-considered presentations of such plays as Galsworthy's Silver Box; Kennedy's
The Servant in the House, (1916); Ibsen's Pillars of Society, (1917); and Masefield's Tragedy
of Nan, (1918).

Contemporary interest in pageantry has likewise not been without its effect in the University,
as was shown by a praiseworthy though perhaps over-ambitious pageant, Joan of Arc, given under
the auspices of the Woman's League on Ferry Field in 1914, and a less elaborate but more effective
celebration of the Shakespeare Centenary two years later, entitled The Queen's Progress, given
in Hill Auditorium. The Cosmopolitan Club, composed of the foreign students, has also taken
advantage of the same spacious stage to give two elaborate entertainments in 1916 and 1917,
an All-Nation Review, and The Magic Carpet.

This brief outline of student dramatic efforts in recent years reveals a multiplicity of interested
organizations as well as a wide variety of offerings. Necessarily this has given rise to rivalries
and sometimes inadequate preparation, though it has stimulated a vital and intelligent interest
in the drama as an actual form of artistic expression. One of the greatest needs these student
actors and their Faculty directors experience, is a university theater which will, in effect,
be an actual dramatic workshop. These conditions have led to the recent organization of a University
Dramatic Society, composed largely of members of the Faculty and a few students, whose aim
is to correlate the work of the various dramatic organizations of the University and to arouse
interest in the project for a Campus Theater. As a producing organization it made its bow in
December, 1919, when, with the co-operation of the Michigan Union, it produced a most finished
performance of Reginald DeKoven's operetta, Red Feather.

The first mention of any musical organization in the University occurs in some reminiscences
of the class of 1846. Winfield Smith says that the flute was very popular in those days, and
that "several could be heard in different rooms when the windows were open on a summer evening."
A quartette orchestra was organized by John S. Newberry, '47, while the first vocal music was
started by Fletcher Marsh, of the first class to graduate, in 1844, which "rapidly developed
into a good chorus." Dr. Nathaniel West, '46, tells of the fine singing in the chapel exercises
of his time, with "excellent support from a University Band of nine pieces." With evident pride
he confesses: "This hand used to slide the trombone and sometimes the cornet."

Interest in music apparently continued and was actively fostered by Professor Frieze after
he came to the University. An exceptionally fine musician himself, he presided at the organ
in one of the local churches for many years, and took every occasion to encourage good music
among the students. The early numbers of the Palladium and its rivals mention many ephemeral
musical organizations beginning in 1859 with a nine-piece orchestral club, "Les Sans Souci."
Evidently the name was too much for this modest effort and the same or a similar organization
appears as the "Amateur Musical Club" the following year. The same issue of the Palladium also
lists a University Choir of four persons. After that time hardly a year passes without vocal
and instrumental musical organizations in some form; in 1863 we have the "Junior Glee Club,"
and the "Sophomore Æolians," while in 1865 a "Cremona Club" appears. In 1867-68 the first "University
Glee Club" of eight members was organized and in 1870, the senior year of its members, it gave
some twenty-six most successful concerts throughout the State. They appeared in University
caps, apparently something entirely new, as some thought they were members of a fire company,
while others "mistook them for Arabs from Forepaugh's circus." The example set by this successful
club, to which belongs the credit of elevating and popularizing college songs, was not immediately
followed, however, and there were several years when the glee club was dormant. With its effectual
revival in 1884, the history of the University Glee Club has been continuous to the present
time. It was supplemented in 1889-90 by the Banjo Club and in 1895 and 1896 by the Mandolin
Club--and after that time the triple organization went by the name of the University Musical
Clubs. The first extended trip was taken in 1890 when the organization visited several Michigan
cities, and also Chicago, Madison, Minneapolis, and St. Paul. In 1896 the trip went as far
afield as Salt Lake City, an extensive itinerary which crippled more than one cash balance.
Since that time, under more careful management, several most successful trips have been made
to the Pacific Coast.

The various University orchestras and musical clubs supplied the University's needs until,
in 1895, the University Band was organized. This suffered a precarious existence, though much
appreciated by the students, until in 1914 the Regents made an appropriation for its support
which enabled it to blossom out as one of the most creditable college bands in any American
University. Not only does it play at all football and baseball games, but it has come to be
indispensable during such occasions as the annual Commencement.

Though not strictly a student organization, the University Musical Society and the Choral Union,
since their organization in 1879-80, have had as their main object the musical welfare of the
student body, and so successful have they been in their effort, that Ann Arbor has become one
of the musical centers of the country. The modest concerts first given by the Choral Union,
composed largely of students, prepared the way for the establishment in 1893 of the annual
May Festival, which has become an established event of the University year under the energetic
and able direction of Dr. A.A. Stanley, who has well accomplished the task he set himself when
he came to Ann Arbor in 1888, to create a true musical atmosphere in the University of Michigan.
The number of concerts given under the auspices of the Choral Union, including the May Festival
Concerts, now totals 318.

The gregarious club-forming habit, as we have seen, began as far as the University is concerned
almost with the admission of the first class. A list of such organizations might be compiled
from old Palladiums and Michiganensians, but it would be to little purpose. In most cases these
societies have been ephemeral, and if they did survive their own generations, they soon lapsed
into pale shadows, or faded away, with no one to mark their passing. There are certain societies,
however, which have been in existence some time, that serve to mark a definite trend in undergraduate
life, though most of them reflect not so much scholastic attainment as personal popularity.
The most conspicuous of these is "Michigamua," a society which was organized in 1902 as an
all-senior organization. It has always stressed the Indian tradition in its practices and names,
and has made a picturesque ceremony of its annual "rope-in" of new members, who are surrounded
on a certain day in spring with a howling band of painted braves. Similar societies in other
departments and classes soon followed, and we now have the "Griffins," another all-campus society;
"Druids," senior literary; "Sphinx," junior literary; "Vulcans," senior engineering; "Triangle,"
junior engineering; "Archons," junior laws; "Galens," medical; "Alchemists," chemical students;
"Craftsmen," Masonic students; "Quarterdeck," marine engineering; as well as several similar
societies among the women, notably the "Senior Society" and "Mortarboard."

As for the real "honor" societies, those whose membership is in itself an academic honor, there
are several whose members are selected with Faculty co-operation. These are best illustrated
by Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest inter-collegiate organization, which was established at Michigan
only after long opposition centering about the introduction of a marking system, the absence
of which was long a special characteristic of the University. In spite of this, many alumni
were elected at the time of its establishment in 1907, upon the special recommendation of older
members of the Faculty whose co-operation had been requested. Five years before the time when
Phi Beta Kappa was established, Sigma Xi, a similar organization, was inaugurated as a recognition
of excellence in science. Tau Beta Pi in engineering likewise came in the field in 1906. There
followed quickly, after this auspicious start, the following societies, most of them of national
scope; Alpha Omega Alpha, in the Medical School; Tau Sigma Delta, in Architecture; Phi Lambda
Upsilon, in Chemistry; the Order of the Coif, and also the Woolsack, in the Law School; Phi
Sigma, in Science; Pi Delta Epsilon, in Journalism; Iota Sigma Pi for women specializing in
chemistry; and Phi Alpha Tau for students in oratory. Analogous to these distinctions are the
annual appointments to the editorial board of the Law Review, open to the best senior students
in the Law School.

A society organized by upper classmen in 1900, "Quadrangle," for many years maintained outstanding
scholastic ability as well as a certain degree of popularity as qualifications for membership.
Its traditions have perhaps changed somewhat through a too great, though perhaps inevitable
instructorial complexion and the abandonment of its original emphasis on literature and the
arts. Among the women a similar association is found in "Stylus," a society established in
1908. Similar societies, which emphasize the literary and scientific interests of their members,
are the University Branches of the American Institutes of Electrical and Mechanical Engineers,
the "Prescott Club" of students in Pharmacy, the "Architectural Society," the "Commerce Club,"
and another women's society, "Athena."

For some years there was a marked tendency in the University to form sectional clubs, such
as the "Rocky Mountain," "New York," "Pennsylvania," and "New England" clubs, usually with
their own house and dining-room, organized somewhat on the example of the fraternities. The
impulse, however, has lapsed somewhat, though the foreign students in the University still
maintain the "Cosmopolitan Club," a very active organization with national affiliations, as
well as a "Chinese Students Club," a "South African Union," and a "Nippon Club."

In the earlier years the students came almost entirely from nearby towns in Michigan, many
registering from little hamlets now almost forgotten. By 1850, however, almost one-third of
the total of 64 students in the academic department were from outside the State, some even
hailing from as far as New England. Ten years later almost half the 526 enrolled were from
other states than Michigan, with a sprinkling from Canada. The same was true of the 1,112 students
in 1870, though by this time practically all sections of the country were represented--even
California. Less than half the students in 1880 were from Michigan, 642 out of a total enrolment
of 1,427, a condition that also held true in 1890, when the proportion was 1,019 out of 2,153.
But by 1900 Michigan was again sending more than half the students in the University, 2,009
out of 3,440; and the same was true in 1910 with 2,832 out of 5,383 and again in 1920 with
5,793 out of 9,401.

Professor Hinsdale in his "History" publishes a significant little table showing that in 1870
the ratio of Michigan students to the population of the State was one to 2,300. This ratio
was increased slightly ten years later and then dropped to one in 1,802 in 1890, one in 1,206
in 1900, and to one in 992 in 1910. The 1920 census shows one in 636.

The enrolment of foreign students in the University is also significant. Aside from students
registering from Canada, who came almost from the first, the first appreciable showing of foreign
students came in the eighties, with nine enrolled in 1880. In 1890 there were forty-three including
twenty-one from Japan, but ten years later the number had dropped to nineteen. This was due
partly to the fact that there were only seven Japanese students, while the seven from Porto
Rico and two from Hawaii were no longer "foreign." The total, excluding fourteen from the United
States dependencies and twenty-five from Canada, was sixty-eight in 1910. Of this number eleven
students were from China; a little band which grew to thirty-six in 1919, when they formed
no inconsiderable proportion of the 140 foreign students enrolled, strongly organized for social
and educational purposes and affiliated with similar organizations in other universities. Japan
sent eighteen and South Africa twenty-eight the same year. Aside from these, seventy-four were
registered from Canada and fourteen from Porto Rico, the Philippines, and Hawaii. Of late years
there has also been a marked increase of students from Central and South America.

CHAPTER XI

ATHLETICS

Michigan differs in no respect from other American universities in the general and, some would
have it, the extravagant interest in outdoor sports which have come to be defined under the
general term "athletics." This emphasis on contests and games of strength and skill is universal
and is woven into the very fabric of student life in all our universities and colleges. We
cannot therefore avoid the conclusion that it is an inevitable and characteristic expression
of the American spirit. It is only natural for the sons and grandsons of the men who settled
this country to take an interest in wholesome and vigorous sports; in fact it would be a sad
commentary on the degeneracy of the modern generation if such an expression of their inheritance
were not evident. But a distinctively American attitude towards sport is also manifested in
the intense personal and university rivalries developed, the very rock upon which the modern
system of inter-collegiate athletics rests, no less than in the genius for organization and
systemization which has, within the last twenty-five years, made organized athletics such a
tremendous factor in the life of all American universities.

Whatever changes the future is to bring in the development and control of inter-collegiate
athletics, our universities cannot very well escape the fundamental fact that they have become
an integral part of our university system, and that, rather than attempting a change by radical
measures, they can best correct any present abuses by wise regulation, by a constant effort
toward a modification of the present overwhelming emphasis on the one game, football, and above
all, by a consistent encouragement of universal participation on the part of the students in
some form of college sport. This, in fact, is the latest development. It is not so much a reform
as a return to older traditions, from which we have departed only in comparatively recent years,
as the following review of Michigan's athletic history will show. This survey is offered, however,
not so much because of its relation to the general development of the present-day attitude
toward sports in American universities as because it may have particular interest for every
Michigan graduate, whether he counts himself a radical or a conservative in matters athletic.

It goes without saying that there was almost no thought of organized sport in the early days.
Nathaniel West, '46, once told the Washington alumni, that "among our athletics were various
forms of activity--the foot race from a quarter to a half mile,--baseball, a few rods from
the stile,"--and what will seem certainly a novel event to a modern athlete,--"sawing our own
wood and carrying it upstairs." Edmund Andrews, the President of '49, has also left a record
of his time.

     Athletics were not regularly organized, nor had we any gymnasium.
     We played base-ball, wicket ball, two-old-cat, etc., but there was
     no foot-ball nor any trained "teams." There was mere ex tempore
     volunteering. We had jumping wickets in the same way. Fencing and
     boxing were totally neglected. The Huron River furnished little
     opportunity for boating.

This we may take as a fair picture of athletic activities for many years. Cricket was undoubtedly
the first sport to be organized in the University, as the Palladium for 1860-61 gives the names
of the eight officers and twenty-five members of the "Pioneer Cricket Club," while the Regents'
Report for June, 1865, shows an appropriation of $50 for a cricket ground on the Campus,--the
first official recognition of athletics in the University. The game of wicket, which was a
modification of cricket, was played with a soft ball five to seven inches in diameter, and
with two wickets (mere laths or light boards) laid upon posts about four inches high and some
forty feet apart. The "outs" tried to bowl these down, and the "ins" to defend them with curved
broad-ended bats. It was necessary to run between the wickets at each strike.

The need for a gymnasium was speedily recognized, but the agitation for it among the students
continued for thirty years before the present building was finally completed in 1894. The first
gymnasium was an old military barracks which was transformed into a gymnasium of a sort about
the year 1858. It stood near the site of the old heating plant at the side of the present Engineering
Building, and as it was very open to the weather, resting only on poles sunken in the ground
and with a tan bark floor, it was used only in warm weather. The apparatus consisted of a few
bare poles, ropes, and rings. Even this make-shift was short-lived, for in 1868 the class of
'70 erected a "gymnasium in embryo" described by a graduate of '75 as "two uprights with a
cross-beam and ropes dangling from eye-bolts--the remains of some prehistoric effort towards
muscular development," which was to be found "back of the Museum";--otherwise the old North
Wing. Mark Norris, '79, thus pictures the comparatively primitive state of athletics in the
University of his day:

     The athletic side of the University was almost wholly undeveloped
     in 1875. There was no organization and no chance for systematic
     work. The absence of a gymnasium and practice ground will account
     for this. Football was a contest between classes, and a mob of 100
     to 150 men on a side chasing the pig-skin over the Campus was a
     sight to make the football expert of today go into convulsions. We
     had a little base-ball of the "butter fingers" type. At one time we
     had a boat-club, which navigated the raging Huron above the dam in
     a six-oared barge.

But with the opening of the year 1885 the old rink, later to become the armory, was fitted
up as a gymnasium and a great impetus was given to all athletic interests, which by this time
were beginning to be organized. As a natural result the student demand for a real gymnasium
was becoming more and more vociferous. As far back as 1868 the University Chronicle had voiced
the sentiment in a two-column editorial, in which the writer thus describes the awful state
of the University, when the only form of exercise was the opportunity to,--

     walk around two or three squares, down to the post office and back
     to our rooms again. This already has become a melancholy task; but
     we must choose it, or its sadder alternative,--the old buck-saw.
     True there are students among us who will have exercise if
     cramming professors are ever so vexed. They will not study on
     Sunday; they escape to the woods, admire nature--desecrate the
     Sabbath. They find relaxation at the billiard table, make effigies
     in the night to be burned in the morning, remove side-walks,
     dislocate gates, or arm-in-arm parade the side-walk singing: "Happy
     is the maid who shall meet us."

By 1865 the efforts of the students resulted in a fund of something over $4,000. The Legislature
that year almost gave the necessary appropriation for a gymnasium provided the students contributed
what they had raised. But the project finally fell through and it was not until 1891, when
Joshua W. Waterman, of Detroit, long a patron of sports in the University, offered to give
$20,000, provided a like amount be raised from other sources, that the building became assured.
Three years later Waterman Gymnasium was at last completed at a cost of $61,876.49 toward which
sum private donors had contributed $49,524.34. The $6,000 which the students eventually raised
through so many years of effort were used for equipment. The new "gym" was 150 feet long by
90 feet wide, with a running track in the balcony of 14 laps to the mile. These accommodations
proved ample for many years; but the recent growth of the student body finally made an increase
in space imperative, and in 1916 an extension of 48 feet was added at each end, making the
main floor 248 feet long with a ten-lap running track.

The interest in all forms of outdoor athletics, which was developing rapidly by 1890, made
an athletic field no less necessary than a gymnasium. The corner of the Campus where the Gymnasium
now stands, which, from the earliest days of baseball had been devoted to athletics, was crowded
and inconvenient, even for practice games; while the old fair grounds in the southeastern part
of the city were not under University control, besides being ill-adapted to college games.
The streets and Campus were popular for impromptu games, although the arm of the law was unduly
active in the spring, and "the batting of balls" was conspicuously forbidden on a sign which
long decorated the south wall of the Museum. The Regents recognized this need of a great playground,
however, and purchased what is now the south ten acres of Ferry Field in 1891, though it was
not opened to the students until 1893. This went by the name of "Regents' Field" until 1902,
when the Hon. D.M. Ferry of Detroit gave an additional twenty-one acres lying between the old
field and the University, and furnished funds for the present impressive entrance gates and
ticket offices, since which time it has been known by the name of the donor. Subsequent purchases
of neighboring property have increased the total to nearly eighty acres. Though this is by
no means all in use at present, thirty-eight acres are graded, drained, and enclosed on three
sides by a high brick wall. Two great stands, one of concrete, accommodate nearly 25,000 spectators
at the "big games," while an attractive club house at one end furnishes accommodations for
the players and members of visiting teams.

An effective student athletic organization was only less tardy in making its appearance than
the long-awaited gymnasium and athletic field. In contrast to the modern student journals,
the earliest files of the Chronicle are distinguished by their exceedingly rare references
to athletic events, and then only in a very occasional modest item giving the immodest score
of some class contest, such as the baseball game between '71 and '72 on May 29, 1869, when
the score ran 50 to 36. Shortly after this time came the first student athletic organization,
informally known as the "Baseball Clubs" which became the Baseball Association in 1876. A similar
Football Association was organized in 1873 and continued until 1878 when both clubs were merged
in the first Athletic Association of the University. This was the organization responsible
for the student fund for the Gymnasium. But successful as the new organization proved in financial
matters, it soon fell into the almost inevitable desuetude of so many student undertakings
and finally, in 1884, fell "victim of the football and baseball teams which it sought to control."

Its successor was the present Athletic Association, organized in 1890 through a consolidation
of all the athletic interests in the University. This Association was long maintained almost
exclusively by the students whose voluntary membership was marked by a little "athletic button"
of varying design, without which no student in good standing with his fellows would be seen.
With the establishment of a general athletic fee, or "blanket tax," by the University in 1912,
which admitted the student to all athletic events and was paid with the other University fees,
and with the growing influence of the Board in Control of Athletics, the character of the Athletic
Association gradually changed. However, the organization still continues to elect its officers
and Board of Directors, who elect the three student representatives on the Board in Control
from a list of six nominated by the Board. The student managers of the athletic teams are now
appointed by the coach, the captain of the team and the retiring manager. Since 1899 the general
direction of the affairs of the Athletic Association has been in the hands of two men, Charles
Baird, '95, who was appointed Graduate Director of Athletics in that year, and Phillip G. Bartelme,
a former member of the class of '99, who succeeded him in 1909, and now holds the title of
Director of Outdoor Athletics.

The first attempt at organized collegiate sport in the University dates from the time of the
Civil War, for it was in 1863 that baseball was first introduced among the students. Two men
are given the credit, John M. Hinchman, '62-'65, who had been a member of the Detroit Club,
and E.L. Grant, '66, who as a freshman became interested in accounts of the game as it was
being played by a few clubs in and around New York. With some of his friends he wrote for information
in the spring of 1863, and later ordered bases, balls and clubs, and proceeded to lay out a
diamond on the northeast corner of the Campus which was afterward maintained by the University.

Baseball in those days differed considerably from the present game; the pitcher was restricted
to an underhand delivery; the catch of a foul bound meant an "out"; strikes were not called;
and bases on balls were unknown; while owing to the straight-arm pitching, the batting was
much heavier and the scores larger. There was not much of a team in 1863, but the effort resulted
in the organization of the first University Baseball Club in the spring of 1864, with Hinchman,
who was the catcher, as president and captain. The members of the team had no uniforms and
paid their own expenses, as no admission was charged for the games. While the opposing teams
and the scores are not on record, the nine was judged highly successful and was very popular.
In the fall of 1865 the team defeated Jackson, Ypsilanti, and Dexter and was in turn defeated
by a team from Lodi Township near Ann Arbor. General interest in the game was evidently spreading
rapidly.

In 1867 the Club was groomed for the championship of the State; student subscriptions were
solicited; class nines were formed to give them sufficient practice, and the dignity of white
uniforms was at last attained. Finally the team, accompanied by seventy supporters,--it was
long before the day of "rooters,"--traveled to Detroit and met the Detroit Champions. The game
lasted three hours and a half, included six home runs, and was won by the University with the
wholly satisfactory score of 70 to 18, Detroit being unable to hit Blackburn the University
pitcher sufficiently, though, judged by modern standards, his record was not exactly a "shut-out."
A return game, however, played in the fall resulted in the defeat of the University 36 to 20,
while the final game of the series, a year later, ran to eleven innings with the University
finally winning 26 to 24. Soon after this the Detroit team disbanded and for some years baseball
languished in the University; partly because of the lack of opponents for so redoubtable a
nine, and partly because the first enthusiasm for the game had waned. Interest revived somewhat
in 1873, but aside from inter-class games the only available opponents were mostly professional
clubs from the neighboring towns, who were ordinarily outclassed by the college men. With the
abolition of the old straight-arm pitching in 1875 and the calling of strikes established,
the extravagant scores began to be materially reduced.

Michigan's first inter-collegiate baseball game was with Wisconsin on May 20, 1882. It was
played at Ann Arbor and resulted in a victory 20 to 8. This game came as a result of the formation
of an Inter-collegiate Baseball League, composed of Michigan, Wisconsin, Northwestern and Racine,
in which the Varsity easily won the championship. Unsatisfactory arrangements for the traveling
expenses of the team, however, caused Michigan to withdraw from the League the next year and
the nine was forced once more to fall back upon the professional and semi-professional teams
in neighboring cities. Oberlin appeared upon the schedule in 1886 and Michigan Agricultural
College twice defeated the Varsity the following year. But if these years saw no remarkable
schedules, the team was, nevertheless, steadily improving. The fielding average of the '88
team was .908; and though less can be said of the batting, two members, McDonnell, '88, and
McMillan, '86-'89, had averages of .448 and .406 respectively. The Chronicle also was jubilant
over the financial success of the '88 season which left a surplus of $50 in the treasury, after
"elegant new suits" had been purchased.

Confidence in the ability of the team led to the first Eastern trip in 1890, which resulted
in a close and exciting 2 to 1 victory over Cornell at Ithaca, May 16. From this time on Cornell
and other Eastern colleges appeared with fair regularity in the schedule. Games with Harvard
and Yale were arranged in 1891, and every candidate was pledged to strict training after February
first under Peter Conway, a famous National League pitcher. The trip resulted in a creditable
record; and although the game with Yale was lost 2 to 0, only three hits were scored off the
pitcher, Codd, '91, a record for the Varsity almost as welcome as a victory. The game with
Harvard, won 4 to 3, was peculiarly satisfying to the tired team, which had already played
six games, and had had, in the words of Captain Codd, "as hard a course of training as any
University team had, up to that time, ever undergone.... We had given our Eastern antagonists
a pretty good 'practice game,'" (the Harvard manager's term). Conditions were reversed the
following year when Yale was defeated 3 to 2, but Harvard won 4 to 2. Michigan returned to
her Western rivals in 1893 and was almost uniformly successful for several years.

An Eastern trip in 1894 was less fortunate, for it resulted in an unbroken series of defeats
from Vermont, Dartmouth, Harvard, Princeton, and Cornell. The spell with Cornell was broken,
however, in 1895, when Michigan won a decided victory 11 to 0, at Detroit, and had some revenge
for previous defeats. E.C. Shields, '94, '96l, center field and captain of the team that year,
has described the winning of this game as the "most satisfactory moment" of his athletic career;
the team was the best Michigan had ever had, and the game after the first few innings became
a successful struggle on the part of the pitcher, Sexton, '98m, and his team-mates to make
it a "shut-out." Since that day Michigan has more than broken even in her games with Cornell.

Baseball at this time was genuinely popular; all of the classes in the Literary Department
as well as many in the professional schools had their own teams, which not only gave the Varsity
good practice but played in a league among themselves, while the fraternities also had a league
of some years' standing. This popularity of the national game was soon to pass, however, with
the increasing vogue of football, and it has never regained the pre-eminent place it held in
student favor during the period which ended in 1900, though, it has always had many enthusiastic
followers.

The year '99 saw an especially strong team, which not only was successful in the West but at
least divided honors on the first Eastern trip of some years. Particularly spectacular was
the final game with Illinois which won the championship. Michigan had already won two out of
three games, but with a victory in the last of the series Illinois saw a chance to claim the
Western honors. In the sixth inning Illinois had men on second and third and no one out. Guy
Miller, '98, '00l, otherwise known as "Sox," was put in as pitcher, and though he had won a
hard game the day before, he struck out the next two batters. The last man was put out easily,
and Miller held the rest of the game safely, with a final score of 4 to 2.

Two fairly successful years followed, marked, however, by a uniformly disastrous Eastern trip
in 1901. Then followed in 1902 "the most unsuccessful baseball season in years," though the
end came with a victory over Cornell, 7 to 4, largely through the efforts of Michigan's greatest
all-round athlete, Neil Snow, '02, in the last contest of his athletic career. He was responsible
for six of the seven runs, bringing in three men with one three-base hit, while he himself
managed to score on a poor throw.

A final defeat from Illinois the following year just missed the championship of the West for
Michigan. It is worthy of mention that it was at this game, on which many undergraduate hopes
were centered, that the custom of singing "The Yellow and the Blue" in defeat as well as in
victory was inaugurated. The Western championship rested with Michigan in 1905 and again in
1906, but this was destined to be the last time for many years. Much of the success of these
two teams was due to Frank Sanger, '07l, who was considered the best college pitcher in the West.

With 1907 begins another story. Michigan was now out of the Conference and there began a progressive
decline in interest in baseball. Many small colleges soon appeared on the schedules, and in
1908 the South began to figure prominently in the earlier season games. A few games with Eastern
colleges relieved the monotony, but the results were far from being always satisfactory. Two
interesting games with the Japanese students of Keio University ended the season of 1911. While
the University won both games with scores of 20 to 5 and 3 to 1, they demonstrated how apt
the Oriental has been in picking up the fine points of the great American game. Some amends
for an unsuccessful season were made on June 26, 1912 by a thrilling 2 to 1 victory over Pennsylvania
before the thousands of guests and alumni who had gathered to celebrate the University's Seventy-Fifth
Anniversary.

The painstaking efforts of Branch Rickey, who had been coach of the team since 1910, and later
became manager of the St. Louis American League team, began to show results in 1913. The following
year Michigan, in spite of no significant Western games, had some justification for claiming
the national championship through victories in two series of games with Cornell and Pennsylvania,
the acknowledged leaders of the East. This record was due in no small part to the prowess of
one player, George Sisler, '15e, who, from his first season in 1913, showed the extraordinary
ability that made him not only Michigan's greatest baseball player but one of the best all-round
players in the history of the game. While in the University he alternated as pitcher and left
fielder and was captain of the team in 1914. This was the year Carl Lundgren began his successful
career as baseball coach. An unexpected weakness in critical games and an unfortunate discussion
over professionalism were probably the reasons for the poor success in 1915 of what was essentially
an unusually competent team, while a nine composed almost entirely of inexperienced players
counted heavily against the 1916 record.

With the declaration of war in the spring of 1917 all forms of athletics were suspended. The
value of outdoor sports, as a means of developing the physique of the future soldier, as well
as the powers of leadership and co-operation so necessary in military service, was not at first
recognized, and only after the baseball and track seasons of 1917 were long past was a more
reasonable attitude toward collegiate athletics inaugurated as a result of an earnest plea
on the part of the Government that, as far as practicable, they be re-established.

Michigan's return to the Western Conference early in 1918 was marked by her first undisputed
baseball championship since 1905, the team winning nine out of ten Conference games played.
This record was practically repeated in 1919, the Varsity winning all but one out of a schedule
of thirteen games, and that one not with a Conference college. The 1920 season was equally
satisfactory.

Football was introduced in the University a few years after the establishment of baseball.
The first record of a game appears to be the following notice in the Chronicle of a game played
on April 23, 1870.

     The first foot-ball match in the University of late came off on
     Saturday last, between the fresh and sophs. Seven goals, or byes,
     or tallies, or scores, or something--we are not au fait on
     foot-ball phraseology--constituted the game, which was won by the
     freshmen, the sophs coming out second best each time. Foot-ball is
     a new institution on the Campus, but bids fair to be popular, at
     least on cool days.

This was not strictly the first appearance of the game, as the sophomore class in 1866 had
secured a football, and the resulting impromptu contests had aroused some patronizing comment
in the college paper. But this first effort was short-lived, and the sport went "to a grave
too cold by far." That this death was "greatly exaggerated" is suggested by the paragraph quoted.
As a matter of fact football steadily grew in favor from that time, although in its earliest
years it was by no means the game we know now. There seemed to be no hard and fast rules, at
least not according to the Michigan practice of the early '70's. It was largely, or more properly,
entirely, a kicking game, with any number up to thirty on a side. This made it particularly
popular as a vehicle for class rivalries, and we have record of one game in 1876 in which forty-two
sophomores were defeated by eighty-two freshmen, though the result was different when the two
sides were equalized in a later contest. The number of participants in class games was not
always limited to eleven players as late as 1889-90. The number of goals requisite to win a
game also varied, depending upon a previous agreement of the two sides. The popular attitude
toward football, and the status of athletics in general is amusingly suggested in the following
paragraph which appeared in the Chronicle, October 19, 1872:

     The base-ball ground is well filled on these pleasant afternoons.
     The games of foot-ball, base-ball and cricket are played at the
     same time. It is quite laughable for an outsider to witness the
     consternation of the players of the two more scientific games when
     the mob engaged in the other sport comes towards them.

By 1872 all four classes had their teams and the four captains formed a loose football organization,
which became a Football Association the following year. Modern football, the Rugby game, was
introduced in 1876 by Charles M. Gayley, '78, better known to generations of Michigan students
as the author of "The Yellow and the Blue," and now Professor of English in the University
of California. No inter-collegiate games were played, however, until May 30, 1879, when Michigan
defeated Racine at White Stocking Park, Chicago, 7 to 2, in what was probably the first inter-collegiate
contest in the West; certainly no game had ever attracted such attention or drew such crowds
as this one. I.K. Pond, '79, in after years to be the architect of the Michigan Union, made
a touchdown in the first half, and a goal from the field by De Tar; '78, '80m, accounted for
the balance of the Varsity's score, while a safety was all that was permitted to Racine. In
the autumn of the same year Michigan played a tie game with Toronto at Detroit. Four cars filled
with students accompanied the team and demonstrated the growing popularity of the Rugby game.
The team fully deserved this support, for the Canadian eleven was more experienced and even
the Chronicle acknowledged that they excelled in almost every part of the game. The following
fall Michigan won a second game at Toronto, 13 to 0, much to the disgust of the Canadians.

For some time there had been a growing demand for a series of games with Eastern colleges.
As a result Michigan's first invasion of the East came in the fall of 1881. The outcome was
far from discouraging, in view of the inexperience of the Michigan eleven and the greater interest
in the game in the East; for though the Varsity was uniformly defeated, the scores were by
no means overwhelming. The game with Harvard was lost 4 to 0, and those with Yale and Princeton,
11 to 0 and 13 to 4.

Inter-collegiate football was dormant the following year, but in November, 1883, a second Eastern
trip resulted in another clear demonstration of the greater advantages the game enjoyed in
the seaboard colleges. The game with Yale was a decided defeat 46 to 0; but Harvard barely
avoided a tie with a 3 to 0 score; Wesleyan won 14 to 6, while the one victory for the West
was over Stevens Institute 5 to 1. The Harvard game was the greatest disappointment as Michigan,
with a much better team than in the previous game, had hoped for victory. All the circumstances,
however, were unfavorable. The only possible schedule called for a game with Yale the preceding
day, and a series of new rules were flashed upon the team as the only ones under which the
Easterners would play. The game, which was played November 22, was an exceedingly close one,
however, and the first half ended with neither side scoring, and most of the play in Harvard's
territory. A failure to kick goal following a score by Harvard in the second half still left
hope, though Harvard repeatedly saved her goal by kicking. Finally a Harvard man ran out of
bounds on Michigan's twenty-five yard line and the ball was thrown out from that point according
to the rules then in force. Michigan secured it and by using the one trick play in her repertoire,
the time-honored fake run, Prettyman, '85, the manager of the team, started off with Killilea,
'85l, as his interference behind him, as the rules then demanded. The opposing full-back was
ready for them, but just before the tackle the ball was passed to Killilea, who went on for
the touch-down while Prettyman went head-on into the Harvard full-back, calling "down" in accordance
with the plan. The Harvard umpire insisted that the ball was "down" where Prettyman had been
tackled, and the referee ordered it back to the middle of the field and then called the game
on account of darkness. The Michigan team arranged immediately to stay and play another game
the next day. But instead of playing, Harvard pleaded faculty interference and paid a $100
forfeit. An eleven that could play Yale one day, Harvard the next, and then be ready for a
third game, made a profound impression, however, and created great respect for Western grit
and sportsmanship.

After this venture into the lime-light there came several years of comparatively minor games,
due largely to the fact that few teams were available as competitors. For many years Albion
had a regular place on the schedule and was regularly defeated, save in 1891, when it won for
the first and last time. The Chicago University Club, the Windsor Club, the Peninsular Club
of Detroit, and Notre Dame were the principal opponents until the first game with Cornell in
1889. The result of this contest, 56 to 0 in favor of Cornell, was discouraging, but in a second
game the following year the Varsity managed to score five points against Cornell's twenty.
This score came as the result of a long field goal by James Duffy, '92l, who three years previously
had won the first Varsity medal for breaking an inter-collegiate record, with a drop-kick of
168 feet 7-1/2 inches, surpassing Yale's previous record of 157 feet, five times before he
was satisfied.

A new era in the history of football at Michigan began in 1891, when with a fair schedule and
an experienced coach, Frank Crawford (Yale, '91), '93l, the systematic development of a team
began; though it was not until several years later that football assumed the undisputed supremacy
it now holds as a college sport. Cornell won twice that year and gave Michigan her first experience
with "real interference and fast play." Michigan took her first Western trip the following
year. The team was coached by Frank Barbour, a classmate of Crawford's at Yale, and for the
first time played a complete schedule with the leading universities of the West, Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Northwestern, and Chicago, with varying success. The Varsity lost most of her principal
games in 1893, Minnesota winning for the last time in twenty-seven years, though a final victory
over Chicago, 18 to 10, was some compensation for the earlier defeats.

The autumn of 1894 saw the beginning of a long series of remarkably successful seasons, which
lasted with one or two partial relapses until 1906. These twelve years were not only Michigan's
"golden age" of football, as far as the game itself is concerned, but also one of the longest
series of almost uniformly successful seasons in the history of any of the larger American
Universities. It is true that a decisive defeat from Cornell, 22 to 0, marred the early season
in 1894, but a second game, 12 to 4, redeemed the record. This was Michigan's first victory
over a rival of long standing. The team was a formidable one, equally strong on offense and
defense, and included such well-known names in Michigan's football annals as H.M. ("Mort")
Senter, '90-'95, m'95-97, end; Gustave H. ("Dutch") Ferbert, '97, end in '94 and later half-back;
G.R.F. ("Count") Villa, 96l, tackle; F.W. ("Pa") Henninger, '97, guard; and "Jimmy" Baird,
'96, quarter-back. W.L. McCauley, Princeton, '94, who had entered the Medical School, proved
his ability as a coach during this and the two succeeding seasons.

Previous to this time there had been little supervision of athletics on the part of the Faculty,
and no attention was paid to the composition of the teams or the academic standing of the players.
When the general Athletic Association was organized in 1891, an Advisory Board of three non-resident
alumni and four Faculty members was established, though at first it had slight influence. The
Faculty members were becoming impressed, however, with the significance of the growing interest
in athletics all over the country and realized the necessity of some form of effective supervision.

Up to this time there had been no real distinction in the West between professional and amateur.
The question came home to Michigan as the result of a disclosure that two men on the 1893 track
team were sub-freshmen, not yet in college, although they entered the following fall. The Athletic
Board promptly requested the resignation of the captain of the team and published the facts.
The Faculty was also aroused. The result was the organization in 1894 of the Board in Control
of Athletics, which ordinarily has had the final word in the administration of athletic affairs
since that time. It is at present composed of four Faculty representatives, elected by the
University Senate, three alumni, appointed by the Regents, three students appointed by the
Directors of the Athletic Association, and the Director of Outdoor Athletics.

The year 1894, therefore, aside from the beginnings of a real football team, was important
also because it saw the awakening of the Faculty to its responsibility in athletic affairs,
and a corresponding growth in the whole University body of higher ideals of inter-collegiate
sport, with the University "started fairly and squarely on the road to athletic cleanliness."
The movement thus inaugurated resulted in the establishment of the Western Inter-collegiate
Conference on February 8, 1896. This is a body composed of representatives from the athletic
boards of seven (later ten) leading mid-western Universities, which has aimed from the first,
not only to regulate and standardize the conditions of all forms of inter-collegiate athletic
competition but also to maintain a high ideal of amateurism in college sports. The formation
of this body, which soon came to be the most powerful influence in the West for clean athletics,
was due in no small part to President Angell, who was instrumental in calling the first meeting,
as well as to Dr. C.B.G. de Nancrède and Professor Albert H. Pattengill, the Michigan representatives
at that first meeting. Professor Pattengill's interest in outdoor sports was lifelong. His
was the moving spirit in the Conference through many years; and to him, more than to any other,
Michigan owes, not only the present effective organization of athletics, but the securing of
Ferry Field and its equipment.

The records of the football teams of 1895 and 1896 were quite overwhelming for those days,
266 points to their opponents' 14 in 1895 and 262 points to 11 the next season. The only disappointments
were a 4 to 0 defeat from Harvard in 1895 and a 7 to 6 victory for Chicago in 1896. A season
of uninterrupted victories in 1897 was again cut short by a defeat from Chicago 21 to 12 in
the last game. Chicago had now come to occupy the chief place on the schedule and the seeds
of that rivalry which was later to prove so unfortunate in Western inter-collegiate affairs
were already being sown.

An unbroken series of victories marked the 1898 season, with the Championship of the West decided
by a thrilling 12 to 11 victory over Chicago. At the end of the first half in this game the
score stood 6 to 5,--a touchdown for Michigan and a goal from the field by Chicago's great
punter, Herschberger. One of the most spectacular runs in Michigan's football history came
in the early part of the second half when C.H. Widman, a freshman, broke through between left
end and tackle, ran down the field sixty yards, broke away from the Chicago full-back, and
squirmed across the remaining five yards for a touchdown. Chicago's subsequent touchdown made
the score a close one but left the championship, the first in three years, with Michigan. The
center on this team, W.R. Cunningham, '99m, was Michigan's first player on an All-American Team.

This team had been coached by a number of the older players, a system that was followed again
in 1899, but with no brilliant success. A change came in 1900 when Langdon Lea, of Princeton,
took charge. He instituted some revolutionary changes and insisted on the fundamentals of the
game,--always the weak point of Western football. The season, however, was not a great success,
and in the final game with Chicago, Coach Stagg, with his famous "whoa-back" formation, was
able to take advantage of Michigan's weakness in backing up the tackles, and won with a score
of 15 to 16.

The record for the following year was very different. Fielding H. Yost, who received his football
training at the University of West Virginia and Lafayette, was called to Michigan from Stanford
and entered upon his long and successful career as Michigan's football coach. Not only has
he proved himself time and again a master of football strategy, but his insistence on the highest
ideals of sportsmanship has been one of the strongest factors in the development of clean athletics
at Michigan.

The new coach undeniably had good material to work with in his first team. Most of the men
comprising it had been well trained in the finer points of the game by his predecessor and
included such exceptional players as Captain Hugh White, '02l, tackle; Curtis Redden, '03l,
end; Neil Snow, '02, full-back; Harrison S. ("Boss") Weeks, '02l, quarter; and Everett Sweeley,
'03, half-back; while to this list were added that year Martin Heston, '04l, one of the greatest
backs in the history of the game; the center, George Gregory, '04l; and the old reliable guard
Dan McGugin, '04l. This team under Yost's astute and resourceful direction proved invincible,
and became one of the greatest elevens in the history of football. Whether it could have dealt
successfully with the Eastern champions will always be a question, but it certainly found little
effective opposition in the West; for the final record showed an uninterrupted succession of
victories with not a point scored against the team. The total tells the story, 550 points to
0; with the University of Buffalo beaten by the extraordinary score of 128 to 0. The final
game of the season was played with Stanford at Pasadena, California, on New Year's Day, 1902.
The quality of the team was shown by the fact that they won by a score of 49 to 0 in spite
of the fact that they had been in training for four months, and left Michigan in zero weather
to play in what was to them a summer heat. Snow was given a place that year on Caspar Whitney's
All-American Team, while Walter Camp selected Snow, Weeks, Heston, and Bruce Shorts, '01l (tackle),
for the All-Western team.

Except for the fact that the eleven was scored upon twice, once by Case and once by Minnesota,
the record in 1902 was much the same as in 1901, 644 points to their opponents' 12.

Although there were many changes in the team the following year, there was a consistent development
of team-work, which, combined with Heston's extraordinary ability in carrying the ball, enabled
Michigan to go through the season with only one score against the team, in a tie game with
Minnesota. The 1904 team, though it was scored upon three times, was also uniformly victorious
under the leadership of Heston, who was twice given a place on Camp's All-American, as well
as his All-Time All-American team chosen in 1910. The 1905 Championship passed to Chicago,
however, though the team was scored upon only by the two points which lost Michigan the final
game with Chicago. This defeat came as a result of an error in judgment which cost Michigan
a safety instead of the touch-back that might easily have changed defeat into at least a tie.
The following men composing this team were very generally selected for All-Western honors;
Thomas S. Hammond, '06l, half-back; Joseph S. Curtis, '07e, tackle; and Henry F. Schulte, '07,
guard, who were members of the 1903 and 1904 elevens, and Adolph ("Germany") Schulz, e'04-09,
center. Not a little credit for the record of this team must also be given to the captain,
Fred S. Norcross, '06e, while John C. Garrels, '07e, end, destined to hold a record only second
to Niel Snow, as an all-round athlete, and Walter ("Octy") Graham, '08e, who proved extraordinarily
active at end and later at guard, in spite of his 215 pounds, first won their "M's" as players
on the 1905 eleven.

Meanwhile a change had come in Michigan's relations with the other universities composing the
Western Inter-collegiate Conference which eventually led to her withdrawal from that body,
and brought to an end for some twelve years all competition with her natural rivals in the
West. This action applied to all forms of inter-collegiate sport, but the agitation centered
almost exclusively about football and may therefore be properly mentioned in this place. For
some years there had been developing throughout the country a powerful opposition to inter-collegiate
football which began with the introduction of the Rugby game. The old-time open game had been
replaced by powerful mass-plays, dangerous to limb and even to life. The conditions under which
the "big games" were played had little reference to wholesome college life, the essential amateur
spirit was fast disappearing, rivalries were becoming bitter, as was the case between Michigan
and Chicago, and in fact the whole academic spirit was threatened by the exaggerated emphasis
on this one phase of college sport.

Michigan took the initiative for a reform, through a letter from President Angell, calling
for a meeting of representatives of the leading Western universities in Chicago in January,
1906. All the institutions represented at this meeting were unanimous in the feeling that drastic
measures were necessary; Wisconsin even asked for the abandonment of the game for two years.
The result was a series of demands for fundamental reforms, including the abolition of the
training table and excessive gate receipts, a modification of the professional coaching system,
and finally a provision that no freshmen should be allowed to take part in inter-collegiate
contests, and that no student should participate more than three seasons.

This action was a bomb-shell whose fragments disrupted the student and alumni bodies of all
the Western Conference colleges. Criticism became intense, but eventually all the nine Conference
colleges accepted the new rules with certain amendments except Michigan, where a four-year
contract with Yost made special difficulties. The student body and many alumni felt aggrieved
at a clause in the new rules which made the three-year playing rule retroactive, thereby barring
out several of the most prominent players, including Garrels, after their junior year. They
therefore demanded that Michigan sever her relations with the West and seek her future opponents
among Eastern universities. Implicit in the whole discussion also was the question as to whether
the Faculty was to have the last word in the control of athletics. This was the fundamental
demand of the Conference, while the effective opinion at Michigan favored a broader control
by students, Faculty and alumni, in which the final decision was to rest with the Board of
Regents. This view was accepted by the Regents; changes were made in the organization of the
Board in Control of Athletics which limited the authority of the Faculty, and Michigan, by
simply refusing to abide by certain of the rules of the Conference, automatically ceased to
be a member in 1908. For twelve years, 1906 to 1918, Michigan put to the test the conviction
of the students and many alumni that Michigan could find satisfactory opponents elsewhere than
in the Conference. The result was not encouraging, for on the whole these were lean years.
The football schedules proved unsatisfactory and though Michigan won her share of games, interest
and enthusiasm waned correspondingly, while the baseball and track teams suffered even more.
Henceforth the principal opponents were Pennsylvania, Cornell, Syracuse, and for a time Vanderbilt.

During the seasons of 1907 and 1908 the team was defeated in the principal games, though one
player, Schulz, not only won a place on Camp's All-American team in 1907, but was also the
second Michigan player chosen on his All-Time All-American. Things went a little better in
1909 and 1910. Pennsylvania was finally defeated and Minnesota, who appeared temporarily on
the schedule for two seasons, as a result of her desire to play Michigan and her own dissatisfaction
with the Conference, was twice defeated and Michigan was able to claim the rather empty honor
of an unacknowledged Championship of the West. Albert Benbrook, '11e, guard on these two teams,
was given an All-American position by Walter Camp.

For the first time since 1894 Cornell appeared on the schedule in 1911 and defeated the Varsity,
but lost in turn the following year; a record for the two years which was just reversed with
Pennsylvania. Both teams were decisively defeated in 1913 and Pennsylvania again in 1914, but
a game with Harvard on Soldiers' Field in 1914 resulted in an honorable defeat for Michigan
with a score of 7 to 0. Though Harvard had not been particularly effective up to that time
the Michigan team made a strong impression, and John Maulbetsch, '17p, left-half, was placed
on practically every All-American team as a result of his work in this game. The unsatisfactory
basis under which Michigan was maintaining her relationship with the East was shown, however,
by Harvard's unwillingness to play a return game in Ann Arbor the following year. This was
perhaps fortunate as events turned out, for Michigan was unusually weak in 1915 and the 1916
record was not much better, with defeats from both Cornell and Pennsylvania.

Ever since Michigan had taken her stand on the Conference, there had been vigorous discussion,
but the unanimous approval necessary for a return was absent. The unfortunate end of the 1917
football season, however, led to a renewal of the discussion. Eventually the Board in Control
passed a resolution giving the Faculty, as represented by the Senate Council, a veto over the
actions of the Board. This was eventually approved by the Regents and the way was open to resume
athletic relationship with the universities of the West in the fall of 1917.

Though the ban on inter-collegiate athletics which followed the declaration of war in April,
1917, had been raised before the 1917 football season at the urgent plea of the War Department,
the team was seriously weakened by the enlistment of many of its best players. This happened
everywhere, however, and Michigan came through the schedule with fair success, though defeated
by Northwestern in the one Conference game of that year. But in 1918 war-time conditions were
felt more severely, particularly in the general disorganization incident to the S.A.T.C. régime,
while the ravages of the influenza epidemic multiplied the difficulties. Nevertheless Michigan
managed to survive the season not only undefeated but with some claims to the Western Championship.
The record in 1919 was very different, however, with defeats in all the Conference games played
save with Northwestern, a disgrace which was at least partially retrieved by the 1920 eleven,
which lost a hard-fought battle with Illinois by the honorable score of 6 to 7 and won from
Chicago, 14 to 0, and Minnesota, 3 to 0.

Though informal running, jumping, and hurdling matches as well as wrestling and boxing always
had a certain degree of popularity among the students, track athletics, as a form of inter-collegiate
sport, was not organized until football and baseball had been recognized for some time. A University
Athletic Club was organized in 1874, with the captains of the running and jumping squads among
the officers, though no public contests were held, apparently, until 1876 when the first "athletic
tournament" took place on the Fair Grounds. This was followed in June, 1879, by the first Field
Day, with the 100-yard and 220-yard dashes, standing long jump, baseball throw, ten-mile walk,
and a fencing contest among the principal events. The next year saw two such tournaments, under
the auspices of the Football and Baseball Associations respectively. The merchants of Ann Arbor
gave prizes for these contests, some contributing medals, while one firm gave two boxes of
cigars and another "the best hat in the store."

By 1884 the program became very elaborate, some twenty events were scheduled with records of
one hour and 51 minutes for the ten-mile walk, 26-1/2 minutes for the three-mile walk, and
2.33 for the half-mile run. Such events as a standing jump backwards, a three-legged race,
and passing the football and punting also found place on the programme, which was concluded
by a Rugby match. Particular interest was taken at this time in running, and it is told by
one of the members of the football team that almost defeated Harvard in 1883 that an impromptu
race at Buffalo, while they were waiting for a train, went a long way toward defraying the
expenses of some of the men, who were paying their own way. The outstanding track athlete of
the day was Fred M. Bonine, '86m, whose record in sprints led Michigan to enter the Inter-collegiate
Athletic Association, where he won the 100-yard dash in 10-3/4 seconds at New York in 1885.
This was Michigan's first and last effort for some years; and track athletics had a fluctuating
career until the Northwestern Inter-collegiate Athletic Association, composed of Michigan,
Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Northwestern, was organized in 1893. The first Field Day of this
organization was held June 3, 1893, with Michigan the winner with 52 points against 45 for
Wisconsin, her closest competitor. Michigan did not again win first honors until 1898, and
then, after taking third place in 1899, she held the Championship banner for five successive
seasons, 1900 to 1904, and once more in 1906. During this period the Varsity was also very
generally winning dual meets with Cornell, Wisconsin, and Illinois, though she lost to Chicago
in 1901 and 1902. Michigan also won the four-mile relay race at the Pennsylvania Relay Meet
for six successive years, 1903 to 1908, and made the best record of any university entered
in the track events scheduled at the same time.

After 1906 the Eastern Inter-collegiate Meet necessarily came to hold first place in the schedule,
and here also Michigan always made a creditable record though never succeeding in taking first
place. The team returned in 1907 with second honors, and then held third place for five successive
years, 1910 to 1914, with Pennsylvania, Yale, and Cornell usually leading in different years.
The Varsity fell behind, however, in 1915 and 1916. Owing to war-time conditions no meets were
held in 1917, but Michigan's return to the Conference fold was marked by two successive Western
Championships in 1918 and 1919.

This long and honorable record in field sports has been made possible by consistent encouragement
of well-rounded teams in which all branches were carefully developed, through the extraordinary
ability of Keene Fitzpatrick, perhaps the greatest athletic trainer and track coach in the
country. His acceptance of a similar position at Princeton in 1911 was a great loss to Michigan,
where he had served for sixteen years.

As early as 1897 Michigan held several Western records. The first of Michigan's all-round athletes
was John F. McLean, '00, who not only won regularly the hurdles and broad jump, equaling or
bettering the Western records, but was also half-back on the football team. Charles Dvorak,
'01, '04l, also held the Western record in the pole vault, while Archie Hahn, '04l, speedily
developed into one of the country's greatest sprinters, equaling several times the world's
record in the 100-yard dash of 9-4/5 seconds, which still stands. He returned to the University
in 1920 as trainer of the various athletic teams. Neil Snow also completed in 1902 his remarkable
record of eleven out of a possible twelve "M's" open to him, by tying with another Michigan
man, Barrett, in the high jump at the Conference Meet, and taking second in the shotput. Nelson
A. Kellogg, '04, came decidedly to the fore in 1901 in the long-distance runs, and ended his
college career with a record of 9.57-1/2 in the two-mile.

The organization of a Cross Country Club in 1901 was directly responsible for the long list
of relay victories at Philadelphia. The 1905 team, composed of H.P. Ramey, '07e; H.L. Coe,
'08e; I.K. Stone, '05; and Floyd A. Rowe, '08e, set the world's record for the four-mile and
lowered it again in 1906 to 18 minutes 10-2/5 seconds, while the individual members of this
team were almost invariably to be counted on as point winners in every meet.

John C. Garrels, '07e, is also to be reckoned among the great all-round athletes; not only
was he one of the best men on the football team but he was a consistent winner in all the track
meets, taking first in both hurdles and second in the shotput at the Eastern Inter-collegiate
in 1907. Among more ephemeral stars of this period was Ralph Rose, who remained in college
just long enough to set the record in 1904 for the hammer throw at 158 feet 3 inches and for
the shotput at 47 feet 3 inches. The records of two men, Ralph Craig, '11, and Joseph Horner,
'11, were the striking features of the next few seasons, Craig winning the two dashes in the
Eastern Inter-collegiate in 1911, equaling the record in both, while Horner won first in the
discus, second in the shotput, hammer throw and broad jump, and third in the high jump. Harold
L. Smith, '16, also won the two dashes in 1915 and took a first and a second the following
year, almost equaling Craig's record.

Michigan's two Conference Championships in 1918 and 1919 were assured by the extraordinary
ability of Carl Johnson, '20, who took three firsts in 1918 and four in 1919, breaking his
own record with a broad jump of 24 feet 1 inch, setting a new record for the high jump of 6
feet 2-1/4 inches and winning both hurdles, thus gaining 20 of Michigan's 41-1/2 points, a
performance never equaled in a major inter-collegiate contest.

The particular favor with which football, baseball, and track athletics have always been regarded
has not prevented a healthy interest in other sports. Though cricket and wicket died somewhere
about 1872, for the Chronicle remarked in 1875 that not "even the ghost of a cricket bat" had
been seen for two years, and football "was in its decline," baseball was exceedingly popular
and a general interest in boating was developing which promised to "equal if not supplant it
in popular favor." Shells were purchased, entertainments for the new Boating Association were
given, and for a time the new sport flourished. But the nautical resources of the Huron and
Whitmore Lake were all too slender and after a few years the enthusiasm died, though occasionally
talk of a Varsity crew springs up.

Tennis came into vogue about 1880. An Association was established as early as 1883 and we have
it, once more on the Chronicle's carefully qualified authority, that "athletics in general
have given way to lawn tennis to a certain extent." The Tennis Association was merged, with
the other separate athletic bodies, into the general Athletic Association in 1890, and by 1897
when Michigan first participated in the Western Inter-collegiate tennis matches, the members
of the team were awarded the Varsity letter. Henry T. Danforth, '03; H.P. Wherry, '03; R.G.
St. John, '06l, and Reuben G. Hunt, '06l, were members of the four teams which led the West
in the years from 1901 to 1904, the last championship until 1919, when Walter Wesbrook, '21,
captured the singles, and with Nicholas Bartz, Jr., '20, the doubles at Chicago.

The return to the Conference also gave a great impetus to the development of basket ball as
a major sport. Though Michigan's first teams have not been remarkably successful, the players
are now awarded the Varsity "M," and interest in the contests is growing rapidly, partly because
the game itself is fast and exciting, demanding even greater quickness and stamina than football,
and partly because the season fills in the interval between the end of the football and the
opening of the baseball and track seasons in the spring. A swimming team has also been organized
under a competent coach, but it is probable that no great progress will be made until the completion
of the tanks in the Union and the Gymnasium.

The women of the University have not been far behind the men in the development of athletics.
Not only have they always been loyal supporters of the University in inter-collegiate contests,
but they have their own organized athletic interests which have been no small factor in the
development of the distinctive life of the women in the University. This has come largely through
Barbour Gymnasium, completed in 1897, and the Palmer Athletic Field for women, which was purchased
some twelve years later.

The Gymnasium, as its name implies, was largely made possible through a gift of property in
Detroit valued at $25,000, by the Hon. Levi L. Barbour, '63, '65l, of Detroit, Regent of the
University from 1892 to 1898, and from 1902 to 1907. The building eventually cost $41,341.76,
and includes not only the gymnasium proper, 100 by 90 feet, completely equipped, but also two
large parlors and a series of offices, the headquarters of the Women's League, as well as a
small auditorium and stage above, seating about 600 persons, named in honor of the President's
wife "Sarah Caswell Angell Hall." Palmer Field was made possible through two gifts, the first
of $1,500 from the Hon. Peter White, Regent from 1904 to 1908, and the second of $3,000 from
ex-Senator T.W. Palmer, '49, of Detroit. It comprises a rolling six-acre tract, just south
of the Observatory, and therefore within easy walking distance of the Gymnasium.

These gifts not only ensured systematic physical training for University women, but also quickly
led to a broader interest in sports for women, as is shown by the pictures of three women's
basket-ball teams in the 1903 Michiganensian. Since that time there has been a continuous and
consistent development under competent instruction, with special emphasis placed on basket
ball and such outdoor sports as cross-country walking, hockey, baseball, tennis, swimming,
and archery, all of which are supported by a Women's Athletic Association. During the war also
a drill company was organized under officers of the S.A.T.C.

In closing this review of the development of athletics in the University it may not be amiss
to emphasize the fact that the present status of collegiate sport is not without its inconsistencies
and dangers. There is real peril for mens sana in an overdeveloped corpore sano. The general
and healthy interest in all forms of outdoor sport of earlier days has been all but lost in
this era of specialization. Nowadays the Varsity team too often is far from being the apex
of a pyramid whose foundations lie in a widely distributed and wholesome interest in sports
for their own sake. Too often we have the spectacle of high-school students coming to our universities
with their careers all made for them, because of their ability in athletics, bringing with
them a spirit of professionalism utterly foreign to university ideals. And yet all this has
come as a natural result of the heritage of the American college student, of enterprise, resourcefulness,
and love of outdoor life and sports.

The ideal, of course, is a general participation of all students in some form of outdoor games,
and toward this those who have the best interest of inter-collegiate athletics at heart are
working. A Department of Intramural Athletics has been established for some time, which seeks
to develop a general interest in all kinds of sport;--tennis, for which Ferry Field is admirably
equipped with eighteen courts, boxing, gymnastics, swimming, cross-country running, hockey,
indoor baseball and hand-ball, to say nothing of an increasing emphasis on class and fraternity
football, base-ball, and basket-ball teams.

The difficulty which faces those who seek to develop this programme to its utmost lies in the
attitude of many students and alumni, whose sole interest in the University is to see that
she maintains winning teams. They fail to see that there is more in the annual "big game" than
nine or eleven supreme athletes brought together to "represent" the University. Fortunately
there are many more who view the whole question in its proper perspective, men who are no less
thrilled by the contagious enthusiasm of the annual big games, and who recognize them as an
inevitable and not undesirable factor in our college life, but who seek to bring athletics
into a sane and wholesome relationship with the academic life of our universities. That is
the principal consideration which underlies all the discussions which have arisen in the past
and which are inevitable in the future,--as long as American youth, on the one hand, maintains
its vigorous and enterprising spirit, and our universities, on the other hand, insist on their
prerogative as institutions where fundamentally the things of the spirit must rule.

CHAPTER XII

TOWN AND CAMPUS

It was a happy stroke of fortune that fixed Ann Arbor as the location of the University of
Michigan. A literal interpretation of history may suggest that politics and speculation had
their share in the selection of the site, but these factors might have operated quite as easily
in favor of some other Michigan village. The fact remains that Ann Arbor was chosen. This assured
to the University an individuality and an opportunity for self-realization that might have
been lost if a town destined to a more rapid expansion had been selected. It has given Michigan
a special character among most of the larger American universities and has had a vital influence
on the development of the institution, which has grown proportionately far more than the town.
The result has been that Ann Arbor has become one of the most attractive academic centers in
the country, with a distinctive charm in her homes and shady streets, that strikes the visitor
no less than the beauty of its location and the dignity of many of its public buildings.

Ann Arbor lies in the rolling country of Southern Michigan, thirty-eight miles west of Detroit,
in the quietly picturesque valley of the Huron River. The University and a good part of the
present town lie upon the top and slopes of a gentle hill which falls away to the valley levels
on all sides except toward the northeast. From this situation arises one of the characteristic
features of Ann Arbor; the ever-present glimpses of distant hills covered with rolling farm
lands and woodlots, toward which almost any of the longer streets lead the eye.

At the time the University was established the flow of immigration from the East was at high
tide. Ann Arbor had already become one of the progressive and settled communities of the new
State; but farther to the West other districts were constantly being opened and towards them
a steady stream of settlers pressed on. One of the early inhabitants of Ann Arbor has given
us a picture from his boyhood memories, of the long line of wagons filled with household goods
and drawn by horses and oxen, which sometimes stretched along the pike as far as the eye could
reach. The men who drove these wagons and the women who rode above with the youngest of their
little families were not adventurers; they were essentially home-seekers. Their strong fiber
was shown by their energy and courage in seeking thus to better their condition in this new
country, which at last had in prospect means of communication with the seaboard states through
the Erie Canal and the railroads soon to be built. It was settlers with this stuff in them
who gave to the University of Michigan the support that spelled success instead of the failure
which had attended many similar efforts.

The very name, Ann Arbor, recalls an idyll of pioneer life. It sketches in a picture that is
no doubt more charming than the bitter mid-winter reality faced by the first two families,
whose tents were pitched in a burr-oak grove beside a little stream flowing toward the nearby
Huron. John Allen of this party, a vigorous young Virginian, was the driving force which first
turned the tide of settlement toward Ann Arbor. By chance, on his way West, he met E.W. Rumsey
and his wife in Cleveland and induced them to come with him to Michigan. They drove overland
and arrived at the site of their future home some time in February, 1824. A tent and sled box
set over poles with blankets for sides formed the first dwelling, and here some months later
Allen welcomed his wife, whose name was Ann. Mrs. Rumsey's name also happened to be the same,
and when in the spring the grape vines spread their leaves over the neighboring trees, these
first settlers found a little natural arbor, which they called, doubtless at first in jest,
"Ann's Arbor." The name persisted, however, and it was formally adopted by general acclamation
at a celebration held on the fourth of July, 1825, when some three hundred persons sat down
to a dinner at Rumsey's coffee-house. So far had civilization progressed in a little over a
year. By that time there were nine log houses in the little settlement, which had already begun
to take its place as one of the way-stations in the general tide of westward travel. For some
time, however, communication with Detroit was difficult, and it was not until two years before
the University was opened that the long-awaited railroad actually reached Ann Arbor. Therefore,
for many years the little settlement had to be largely self-supporting. Such water power as
the Huron could furnish was quickly developed; sawmills, gristmills, and a little later, woolen
mills arose at favorable sites, the ruins of which are still to be seen where the relics of
the dams now serve as hazards for the venturesome paddler.

The first tendency of the inhabitants was to settle on the rise above the little stream; known
as Allen's Creek, which furnished the water supply for the earliest pioneers. This rivulet,
practically hidden nowadays, runs through the city on a course roughly parallel with the Ann
Arbor Railroad tracks. The site of the burr-oak grove and the original encampment was almost
certainly on the hillside on the south side of Huron Street, a block or so west of Main Street.
This was reported to be an old dancing ground of the Pottawatomies, and an Indian trail used
to run to the Huron along the stream. Rumsey built a log cabin on this spot immediately and
established in it a resting-place for travelers, known far and wide as the Washtenaw Coffee
House. The second building was erected by Allen on higher ground at what is now the corner
of Huron and Main streets. It was painted a bright red and the place for some time went by
the name of "Bloody Corners." At one time the two apartments of the little log house held fourteen
men and twenty-one women and children, divided into family groups by the simple expedient of
hanging blankets. In what seems now an incredibly short time life was moving in organized channels.
A store was opened in September, and others soon followed; more buildings were erected; a physician
or two swelled the population; in a little over two years a county court was established; and
finally, in 1833, the village was incorporated.

For many years the little town was divided into two separate districts by the Huron River,
and a determined effort arose to make the section on the north side the main business and residential
quarter. This was not to be; though the old business blocks still stand across the Broadway
bridge, and many of the finer homes of that period, now falling into decay, remain on the hills
along the turnpikes to Plymouth and Pontiac.

It was probably not until the location of the University was fixed that the center of Ann Arbor's
population began, very slowly at first, to turn to the south and east, and mounted the slopes
of the hill upon which the University stands. Certain it is that for years the Campus was practically
in the country, and only gradually did the dwellings of the townspeople rise in the neighborhood.
Aside from the University there was nothing east of State Street, except an old burying ground
and one dwelling, occupied by the ubiquitous Pat Kelly, whose freedom of the agricultural privileges
of the Campus made him quite as important a financial factor of the community as the members
of the Faculty he served.

To the north was a district known as the "commons." Professor Ten Brook tells how he was accustomed
every Sunday morning on his way to church in lower town, to strike across this open place to
the ravine just west of the present hospital buildings up which Glen Avenue now passes. Coming
out on Fuller Street, the river road, he passed the old Kellogg farmhouse, the only home until
within a few blocks of the church across the river. Lower town was but little smaller then
than in these days; it had its own schools as well as churches and when Ann Arbor received
a city charter in 1851 it held aloof for some time. The original settlement about the Court-House
Square extended no further to the west than Allen's Creek for many years, while there was little
to the south of the present William Street save scattered farmhouses and a large brickyard.

In the beginning Ann Arbor was solely a farming community, a character it retained essentially
until the increasing number of manufacturing plants in recent years has somewhat changed its
aspect. The first inhabitants were almost entirely New Englanders, true Yankees in faith, resourcefulness,
and business enterprise. But it was not long before immigrants of another type began to arrive;
South Germans, who had left their native land to seek homes in the freer religious and political
atmosphere of the new world. They speedily became an important factor in the growth of the
town, as the business names on Main Street nowadays show; almost all borne by descendants of
the early German settlers, who have for the most part identified themselves wholly with their
new home. This was revealed by the recent war. While there were some who, through a sentimental
attraction for the home of their fathers, stimulated by the unscrupulous efforts of Germany's
representatives, were actively pro-German in their sympathies or at least violently torn between
their love for the old home and loyalty to the new land, there were many others, probably the
majority, who were out and out loyalists on every occasion, and who by spoken word and action
proved their unhyphenated Americanism. The brave record of the Ann Arbor men in the Civil War,
and in France a half century later, where several of foreign parentage lost their lives, is
ample proof of the solid qualities in this element among Ann Arbor's first inhabitants.

Whatever their parentage or creed, the dwellers in the little double community saw to it from
the first that, at least in some measure, the religious and intellectual needs of the people
were satisfied. There is evidence that occasional religious services were held in 1825, but
the first church, the Presbyterian, was not established until August, 1826. For some years
it was migratory in its meeting places, passing from a log schoolhouse to a room in "Cook's"
hotel and finally in 1829 to the first church built in Ann Arbor, an unpainted log structure
25 by 35 feet on the site of the present church on Huron Street. The other denominations quickly
followed this example and by 1844 there were six churches to serve the needs of the 3,000 inhabitants
of the village, as well as the surrounding countryside, including the first Lutheran church
for the German-speaking settlers in Michigan.

The journalist also appeared on the scene in this prologue to the drama of the University's
history. Less than six years after the arrival of the first settlers, the first number of the
Western Emigrant appeared on October 18, 1829. Like all country journals of that period it
was far more interested in national politics and even foreign affairs than local events; any
one who searches for a chronicle of the daily life of those times finds scant reward in the
columns of these papers. Even so important an event as the first meeting of the Regents is
dismissed with a brief paragraph which throws no light on many interesting questions raised
by the official report of that gathering. Yet such slender sheets as this, which eventually
became the State Journal, and its Democratic contemporary, the Argus, established in 1835,
furnish a picture of the life of those times in unexpected ways that would greatly surprise
their editors, whose duty, as they saw it, was chiefly to guide the political opinions of their
readers by strong and biting editorials, by long reports of legislative actions and by publishing
the speeches of the political leaders of their party. The enterprise and industry of the community
shows up well in advertisements, where every form of trade suitable for such a growing community
found representation. One merchant advertised some 125 packages of fine dress goods from the
East in a long and alluring list anticipating the great celebration over the arrival of the
railroad; another firm, whose specialty was "drugs, paints, oils, dye-stuffs, groceries," offered
its wares "for cash or barter, as cheap if not cheaper than they can be procured west of Detroit."
Cook's "Hotel" announced a few years later that it had been "greatly enlarged and fitted up
in a style equal to any Public House in the place," and that its location in the public square
was "one of the most pleasant and healthy in Ann Arbor." The editor of the Argus in 1844 revealed
the secrets of his business office in the following double-column notice:

     Wood! Wood!

     Those of our subscribers who wish to pay their subscriptions in
     wood will please favor us immediately.

Professional ethics was not quite so tender a subject in those days as it is at present, for
John Allen announces in 1835 that he maintains a law office for the convenience of his clients
where he may be sought in consultation, while "Doct. S. Denton," whose subsequent standing
as Regent and Professor was unquestioned, announces on April 2, 1835, that he

     Has Removed his Office to the Court House in the South Room on the
     East side of the Hall. Those who call after bed-time will please
     knock at the window if the door is fastened.

It is noticeable also that even at this time, ten years after the village was founded, the
spelling, "Ann Arbour," is followed in numerous places while the Argus in its headline gives
it, "Ann-Arbor," with a hyphen.

As with religion and politics, as represented by the newspapers of the day, so with education.
It is not improbable that one of that group of nine log cabins which was Ann Arbor in 1825
housed a primary school; certainly a school taught by Miss Monroe was under way that year at
the corner of Main and Ann streets. This was at first a private venture and was housed in various
places, but in 1829 it was finally moved into a brick building,--on the jail lot, of all places!--and
became a public enterprise. The children in the community were all small in those days--there
were only 141 children between five and fifteen years in 1839--and it was not for some years
that a need for secondary schools was felt.

The first academy was established in 1829 where Greek and Latin and the "higher branches of
English education" were taught. This was soon discontinued, to be succeeded by an academy in
the rude building which served the Presbyterian Church. Although this particular school was
short-lived, its successor soon came to be known as the best in the territory and numbered
the sons of many prominent Detroit families among its pupils. Several schools came in 1835,
including an experiment some distance out what is now Packard Street, known as the Manual Labor
School, in which the pupils paid a part or the whole of their expenses by daily farm work.

The Misses Page also maintained for many years a very "genteel" young ladies' seminary, long
reckoned a most substantial and worthy school, where not only the classics, moral philosophy,
and literature were taught, but also heraldry,--an eminently useful branch in a pioneer community!
The lower town district as well was not without its schools and an academy. Provision was also
made for pre-collegiate training during the first years of the University. So it would appear
that on the whole Ann Arbor was well provided with schools from its earliest days.

The discontinuance of elementary work in the University, however, and a consolidation of the
schools of the two districts finally led to the establishment of the Union High School in 1853.
The first building was erected at a cost of $32,000 on the present site of the High School
and was opened to students in 1856, while most of the ward buildings were built during the
sixties. Close association with the University undoubtedly strengthened the Ann Arbor schools,
and the High School soon became, in practice, a preparatory school for the University, particularly
after the organic connection between University and schools through the diploma system became
effective. This enabled the Ann Arbor High School to become one of the best secondary schools
of the State with an attendance for many years far exceeding the normal enrolment in other
cities of the same population.

While the townspeople have always shown their pride in the University and their interest in
its welfare, Ann Arbor has not escaped entirely the traditional rivalries between town and
gown. The village had a flourishing civic and commercial life before the first students came;
even after it was established, the University for years was comparatively small and made no
great place for itself in local affairs, as one may easily surmise by the rare references to
it in the early newspapers. The members of the Faculty, however, were welcomed from the first
as leaders in the community, though perhaps less can be said for the students, whose irrepressible
spirits often led them to carry things with a high hand. Nor was the younger element in the
town blameless. The result was an occasional crisis which was sometimes serious.

The indignation meeting of the citizens over the modification of the building program, as well
as the similarly expressed support given the students in the fraternity struggle of 1850, were
mentioned in the first chapter, and evidence a more cordial entente than is suggested by a
serio-comic squabble in 1856 between the students and the Teutonic element in the town, long
known as the "Dutch War." The original trouble appears to have started in this case with the
students, though it was probably the outgrowth of old animosities between them and the rougher
and foreign elements in the town. For, despite vigorous efforts on the part of the President
and Faculty to enforce the law against the sale of liquor to undergraduates, many student difficulties
were to be traced to popular downtown resorts maintained largely by the German inhabitants.
On this occasion the trouble started at "Hangsterfer's," in an altercation between two students,
who were making themselves unpleasant, and the proprietor of the place. The next night the
students returned in force and demanded free drinks, and, upon their being refused, precipitated
a general mêlée in which clubs were used and even knives were drawn. In the end, the unfortunate
owners were chased to the outskirts of town by the uproarious students.

Bad feeling followed this episode and one night six uninvited students broke into a ball at
"Binders's," where they surreptitiously helped themselves to the refreshments--presumably liquid.
One of them was captured and only released after planks had been brought to batter down the
brick walls of the building and a squad of medical students, armed with muskets, had arrived
on the scene. Warrants were sworn out for the six the next day, but the officers were foiled
by exchanges of clothing, by the culprits never eating in the same place twice, by their substituting
for one another in recitations with the tacit approval, apparently, of their instructors, and
by concealment in the Observatory, or, in the case of three of them, in a Regent's house. Finally
two students were sent down to the scene of the battle to buy liquor, and with this as evidence,
a sufficient case against the proprietor was secured to induce him to withdraw his complaints.
This ended the "war."

Equally objectionable to the Ann Arbor citizens, though more excusable perhaps, was the standing
protest of the students at the condition of the wooden sidewalks in the town, whose improvement
apparently formed no part of the programme for civic betterment on the part of the good but
conservative burghers. The students therefore constantly took matters in their own hands and
about once in so often the offending rickety planks went up in flames. The class of '73 thus
celebrated after its examinations in the spring of 1870. Their raid on the sidewalks had been
unusually comprehensive and the city fathers became thoroughly aroused. Arrests were threatened,
and serious trouble was certain, when Acting President Frieze settled the matter by paying
the $225 damages out of his own slenderly lined pocket. This the offending class eventually
made up to him by laying a tax upon its members, doubtless to the great disgust of the innocent
ones, "who thought bad form had been displayed somewhere." This experience, however, by no
means ended the practice, which continued down to the present day of flag and cement. The Chronicle
once even took occasion to point out certain places where--

     If the freshmen insist upon celebrating their transition state by
     the customary hints to citizens in regard to side-walks, etc., we
     think we cannot do better than call their attention to a wretched
     collection of rotten planks which lie along the fence on Division
     Street, not far from William.

The local police force has always been fair game for the students, a position "he" (to use
the long-standing quip) did not always appreciate. Gatherings of students in the streets were
at one time looked upon with great disfavor, while the daily "rushes" at the old post-office,
before the days of carrier delivery, were particularly prolific sources of trouble. The office
before 1882 was especially inconvenient, and when the officers, warned by previous trouble,
proposed to allow students to enter only one at a time, which meant that many would go without
their mail, a disturbance threatened at once, and several were arrested. The next night matters
proved even more serious; the fire-bell called out the state militia, who charged with fixed
bayonets and wounded several persons. A dozen students were jailed indiscriminately but no
one could be found to prefer charges the following morning. Suits for false imprisonment were
brought against the city and mayor but were eventually discontinued on the advice of Judge Cooley.

In November, 1890, even more serious trouble arose following another series of arrests for
post-office "rushing." During the evening sounds of rifle shots were heard, and the students,
already excited, scented more trouble. They gathered in a great crowd in front of the house
where the firing had occurred but found that it was only a wedding celebration. Then, with
characteristic good nature, they called for a speech, but their intentions were misinterpreted,
and when the militia, who had attended the wedding in a body, marched out the students followed
them with jokes and jeers. Finally the militiamen lost patience and charged with clubbed guns,
and one quiet student who had been apparently only a spectator, was felled to the ground and
afterward died of his injury. The sergeant in charge of the soldiers was also seriously injured.
In this instance the students were guilty of nothing but noise, while the militia were acting
entirely contrary to the law. Nevertheless, though eight men were arrested, the blame could
not be fixed on any one man. The Governor of the State, however, disbanded the company for
its unsoldierly conduct.

While the growth of the University of late years would suggest a corresponding increase in
such troubles as have been described, the actual development has been quite otherwise, and
serious clashes between students and townsfolk have been very rare in recent years. There have,
it is true, been occasional raids on street-cars and signs; students have been arrested for
playing ball on the streets; and sometimes political meetings have been disturbed. One of the
most amusing incidents of this character was an address given by W.J. Bryan in 1900 from the
portico of the Court House. Wild cheering greeted him as he rose to speak, which lasted for
at least fifteen minutes. At first he was obviously greatly flattered; then he began to suspect
something was not quite right and majestically raised his hand for silence. Instantly every
student waved his hand in response, and the exchange was continued for some time. Meanwhile
the police force was busy dragging off to jail any unlucky student on the outskirts of the
crowd they could lay hands on. When the speaker was at length able to make himself heard his
first words, somewhat unfortunate under the circumstances, were, "If I were an imperialist
I would call out an army to suppress you. But I am not."

It may be said, therefore, that in spite of these occasional troubles the relations between
town and gown have been on the whole surprisingly normal and friendly when we consider that
at present over one-fourth of the total population of Ann Arbor during term-time is composed
of students. This cordial relationship is undoubtedly fostered by the fact that all the men
and many of the women outside the fraternities, live in rooms rented from the townspeople.
The extent to which this system has developed is probably unique in any American university
of the same size. Only very recently has there been any modification of the tradition, in the
erection of women's dormitories and a promise of similar buildings for the men.

While this arrangement is not ideal in many ways, for the students do not always secure the
clean and attractive quarters they are properly entitled to have, it has been undoubtedly a
great advantage to the University in relieving it of the expense and trouble of maintaining
dormitories, at a time when every dollar of resources, to say nothing of the energies of the
officers, was necessary to maintain the University's work. It is only natural, however, that
many disputes between students and landladies should arise, particularly when the rooming and
boarding houses are not supervised by the University: This is the case with the men. For some
time the women in the University have been allowed to live only in approved rooming houses.
The Health Service has also undertaken to inspect all the student boarding houses in an effort
to ensure wholesome food and to maintain a definite standard of cleanliness.

Whatever the minor sources of friction that have arisen between the students and townsfolk
of Ann Arbor, however, the substantial friendliness of the citizens and their pride in the
University have always been one of its great assets through its years of development. The promoters
of the hastily organized land company through whose efforts Ann Arbor was made the site of
the future University builded better than they knew. Their venture was probably not a particularly
profitable one, for the rapid growth they had expected did not materialize. But their prompt
action and foresight assured the institution a normal and healthy environment comparatively
free from political and commercial influences. There are, undoubtedly, certain advantages which
come to the modern university in a larger city, which becomes in a way a laboratory for various
forms of scientific investigation; but the disadvantages are no less obvious. The life of the
students becomes more complicated; social distractions and amusements are apt to offer too
great temptations; the simplicity of academic life is lost; while the personal relations between
Faculty and student become more perfunctory. Thus by her very situation Michigan has been able
to retain, in spite of her extraordinary growth in recent years, something of that fine flavor
of college life which has always been the essence of our best academic traditions.

In the first days the Campus was only a backwoods clearing with lines of forest oaks on the
east and south, the fence-rows of the Rumsey farm, and from it the stumps of the original forest
trees had to be removed before the University was opened. For many years it was, to all intents,
a farm lot upon which a few scattered buildings were to be seen. The early Regents and Faculty
were necessarily occupied with pressing practical problems, and the first steps toward rendering
the Campus more attractive were very casual and ineffective. The sum of $200 was given Dr.
Houghton for the planting of trees in 1840 but action was delayed because of Pat Kelly's wheat,
and when eventually the trees were planted--tradition has it they were locusts--they were soon
destroyed by insects.

Yet as early as 1847 the forlorn condition of the Campus began to be officially noticed; appropriations
of small sums were made from time to time for trees and shrubs and a scheme for the laying
out of avenues and walks and the planting of groups of trees was adopted. Unfortunately, the
trees came before the walks, and as they were all of quick-growing varieties the effort did
not go far. Nevertheless a vision of the traditional academic grove appeared in the report
of the visiting Committee of that year, which recommended that "regard should be had, in making
the selection, to the cleanliness, desirability, symmetry, and beauty of foliage of the trees
to be planted" and observed that "the highway of thought, and intellectual development and
progress, much of which is parched and rugged, should, as far as may be, be refreshed with
fountains and strewn with flowers." Truly, an alluring picture! The Faculty, however, somewhat
more practical, insisted on walks, protesting that they were "obliged before clear day to wend
their way to their recitations through darkness and mud." A similar plan was undertaken in
1854 when citizens, students, and Faculty all joined in the work, the citizens to set out a
row of trees on the farther side of the streets outside the Campus, while the students and
Faculty were to do the same on the Campus side. Five hundred trees were thus set out within
the grounds while an equal number was added through an appropriation by the Regents. But apparently
small success attended these efforts, for few of these trees have survived.

It was with the coming of the young Andrew D. White, as Professor of History, with his youthful
enthusiasm and memories of the "glorious elms of Yale," that the first effective effort for
the improvement of the Campus began.

His example was doubtless infectious, for the Ann Arbor citizens continued their tree-planting
efforts around the outside of the Campus in the spring of 1858, while a group of sixty trees
presented to the University were set out inside. The seniors of '58 left a memorial in the
shape of concentric rings of maples about a native oak in the center of the Campus, one of
the few survivals of the original forest growth, which has since become known as the Tappan
Oak, and is now marked by a tablet on a boulder placed there in later years by '58. Many of
these maples still survive, though all traces of the circles are lost. The juniors also set
out another group further to the east, while Professor Fasquelle planted a number of evergreens
east of the north wing to balance a similar group of Professor White's at the south. The maples
outside the walk on State Street were also the gift of Professor White and were balanced by
a similar row of elms on the inside, given by the Faculty of the Literary Department. This
general interest in Campus improvement did not escape the Regents and successive appropriations,
though comparatively small, continued the work until Michigan now has, in the words of the
father of the movement, written forty-six years after his work was undertaken, "one of the
most beautiful academic groves to be seen in any part of the world,"--a monument to him and
to the students of his time.

The development of the building program, if a thing so haphazard can go by that name, was less
fortunate for the University. Only in very recent years has there been any appreciation of
the need of some degree of uniformity and planning for the future. Many of the present buildings
have been evolved, as the needs of the University grew, rather than planned, while others have
been built to suit the tastes of certain officers, or the special needs of the departments
concerned, with no reference to the larger unity which has come to be recognized as so necessary
in any group of buildings. Some of the oldest buildings have gone; in particular the two residences
on the north, which became the old Dental College and the Homeopathic School in their last
incarnations, while the picturesque old Medical Building followed them a few years later. The
two on the south still survive; the President's House, though often remodeled, still retains
its old lines, but the adjacent building, now known as the Old Engineering Building and used
largely for instruction in modern languages in the Engineering College, has lost all semblance
of its former character.

Similarly the Law Building has undergone many transformations, while the old Chemistry Building,
now used by the Departments of Physiology, Materia Medica, and Economics as make-shift quarters,
has lost through successive additions almost all trace of that first little laboratory which
exemplified the progressive spirit of the University in her early days. The new Chemistry Building
on the north side was completed in 1910 and cost with equipment about $300,000. It is four
stories high, 230 feet long by 130 feet wide, and is built about two interior courts. The building
contains two amphitheaters, laboratories for organic and qualitative chemistry, metallurgy,
physical chemistry, and gas analysis, as well as the College of Pharmacy.

Just beside it to the west rises the largest building on the Campus, the Natural Science Building,
which houses the Departments of Botany, Geology, Forestry, Mineralogy, Zoölogy, and Psychology.
This building, which was something of a departure in laboratory construction when it was completed
in 1916, is built upon the unit system, and consists essentially of concrete piers, whose uniform
spacing divides the rooms and laboratories into equal units, or multiples, with practically
the total width between piers opening into windows. This is, in effect, a modern adaptation
of the old Gothic principle, though it emphasizes the horizontal and lacks entirely the buttresses
and pinnacles which gave the medieval church builders their inspiration. It marks, however,
a new era in laboratory construction, for not only are the laboratories flooded with light,
but they are carefully designed for the purpose for which they are to be used. It is also to
be noted that each department is installed in a complete section of four floors, from basement
to top. The building, which cost $375,000, has about 155,000 square feet of floor space and
like the neighboring Chemistry Building is built about an open court. The same principle of
construction has also been followed as far as practicable in the new Library Building.

Other buildings on the Campus which have not been mentioned elsewhere are the Physics Laboratory,
the Museum, and Tappan Hall. The Physics Laboratory was built in 1886-87. Within twenty years
it proved inadequate and in 1905 an addition costing $45,000 became necessary, which contains
among other features a well-equipped lecture room accommodating four hundred students. Until
the completion of the larger lecture room in the Natural Science Building this was in great
demand for many University lectures. Tappan Hall, a class-room building, in a portion of which
the Department of Education now has its headquarters, was erected in 1894-95 and stands near
the southwest corner of the Campus just at the rear of Alumni Memorial Hall.

The University Museum was erected in 1881 and stands between University Hall and Alumni Memorial
Hall. It is far from being the most successful of the University Buildings architecturally,
and as it has been for some time entirely inadequate for the collections it houses, it will
not be many years before the need for a new museum will be presented to the Legislature. In
addition to the offices of the Curator, Professor A.G. Ruthven, Morningside, '03, and his staff,
the building contains the University's zoölogical and anthropological collections, very popular
with casual visitors to the Campus. The former includes a fine exhibit of mounted mammals and
some 1,600 birds, as well as reptiles, fishes, mollusks and insects, in all of which particular
effort has been made to show forms native to the State. The Anthropological Collection includes
the entire exhibit of the Chinese Government at the New Orleans Exposition in 1885, as well
as many items from China and the Philippines, collected by the Beal-Steere Expedition. The
collections in geology, mineralogy, botany, materia medica, chemistry, the industrial arts,
and the fine arts are to be found in the Natural Science Building and other buildings devoted
to these special subjects.

For many years the original forty acres of the Rumsey farm were more than ample for the needs
of the University. The Observatory, the first building to find a place apart from the Campus,
was set upon its hilltop some distance northeast, because of the need of clear air and quiet;
advantages now almost lost in the proximity of the hospitals, heating plant, and railroads
that portends an eventual change in location. The Observatory has grown rapidly since its establishment
by Dr. Tappan in 1852. The building was last remodeled and enlarged in 1911 when a reflecting
telescope, with a 37-5/8 inch parabolic mirror, largely made in the shops of the University,
was installed. In light gathering power this instrument is in a class with the Lick and Yerkes
refractors, and it is at least as effective in astronomical photography, the purpose for which
it was designed. The new brick tower, with its copper-covered dome, rises sixty feet above
the basement and is forty feet in diameter.

Just beyond the Observatory, on the crest of the hills defining the Huron valley, is the largest
group of university buildings off the Campus, the old University Hospitals, which are to be
replaced in 1922 by the new Hospital, ground for which was broken in September, 1919. Following
the erection of the first building in 1891 an office building was added in 1896 to be followed
rapidly by other sections, including a children's pavilion erected in 1901, known as the Palmer
Ward, the bequest of the widow of Dr. Alonzo B. Palmer, who also left $15,000 for the maintenance
of free beds in it. The entire group of buildings numbers ten, including the State Psychopathic
Hospital.

The new Hospital is to be one of the largest and most completely equipped in America. It is
composed of a series of wings taking the general form of a double letter "Y" connected at the
stems, with a smaller office building in front and a larger wing containing laboratories, operating
and class rooms at the rear. The building is 420 feet long and six stories high with provision
for an additional three stories at some future time. It is built of reinforced concrete upon
regularly spaced piers, and is similar in construction to the Natural Science Building.

The work of the Homeopathic Department is centered in its fine Hospital building with an adjacent
Children's Ward and Nurses' Home just off the northeast corner of the Campus. The Dental Building,
erected in 1908, is situated to the west, just across the street from the Gymnasium. It contains
many laboratories and lecture rooms, as well as an operating room fitted with eighty dental chairs.

Of the other buildings off the Campus, the new Union, Hill Auditorium and the three dormitories
for women are the most conspicuous. The Union, with its magnificent tower and imposing yet
withal beautifully proportioned masses, has been mentioned as the dominant architectural feature
of State Street. Hill Auditorium, which was made possible by a bequest of $200,000 left by
Regent Arthur Hill, '65e, of Saginaw upon his death in 1909, forms one of the unique features
of the University's equipment. Despite its seating capacity, with the stage, of over 5,000,
it has almost perfect acoustic properties, so that a whisper from the stage can be heard in
any portion of this great hall. Its completion in 1913 enabled the University at last to bring
the great part of the students together under one roof upon such occasions as the annual convocation,
the official opening of the University in the fall. The problem connected with the admission
of relatives and friends of the graduating classes to the Commencement exercises, which had
proved exceedingly troublesome for many years, was also at last ended; while the musical interests
of Ann Arbor, particularly the annual May Festival, immediately found an opportunity for further
expansion in this hall, whose advantages as a concert hall were praised by every visiting musician.
The building, which is finished in tapestry brick and terra cotta, stands opposite the Natural
Science Building on North University Avenue. In addition to the great auditorium, it contains
offices and class rooms, a dressing-room for choruses, and a great foyer across the front of
the second floor, where the Stearns collection of musical instruments, one of the finest in
America, is installed. The great organ from the Chicago World's Fair is also placed in this
building as a memorial to Professor Henry S. Frieze, the pioneer in Michigan's development
as a musical center.

The University now has four dormitories or halls of residence for women. Two of them were completed
in 1916; the Martha Cook Building on South University Avenue, given by the Cook family of Hillsdale,
in memory of their mother, and the Newberry Hall of Residence on State Street, a memorial to
Helen Handy Newberry, the wife of John S. Newberry, '47, given by her children. The Martha
Cook Building is probably the most sumptuous and complete college dormitory in America and
cost something over $500,000. It is an unusually beautiful example of Tudor Gothic, always
a favorite style for college buildings. Simple in its main lines it reveals an extraordinary
perfection in detail as well as comfort in its appointments and a richness in decoration which
cannot but have its happy influence on the one hundred and seventeen fortunate women who live
there. Less elaborate but equally attractive as a home for the seventy-five girls it is built
to accommodate is the Newberry Building, which, though smaller and simpler in its architecture,
embodies every essential found in the larger building. It is of hollow tile and stucco and
cost about $100,000. Similar in general plan and appointments, though built of brick, is the
adjacent Betsy Barbour Dormitory, which was completed in 1920, the gift of Ex-Regent Levi L.
Barbour, '63, '65l, of Detroit. It stands on the site of the old ward school building on State
Street, used for many years by the University as a recitation building, and soon to be razed
now the new dormitory, just to the rear, is completed. Alumnae House, the fourth girls' residence
hall, was, as the name implies, furnished by the alumnae of the University. It was made over
from a quaint old dwelling on Washtenaw Avenue at a cost of about $18,000, and accommodates
sixteen self-supporting students.

A final group of buildings, very necessary in an institution so large as the University, is
composed of the heating and lighting plant, the nearby laundry in the one-time ravine at the
east of the old "Cat-hole," and the University shops and storehouse a little distance south.
The old power house near the Engineering Building was abandoned in 1914 when the new plant,
situated on a lower level than the Campus and reached by a spur from the railroad, was ready
for service. It cost approximately a third of a million dollars, and furnishes heat, compressed
air, electrical energy, and hot water to the Campus and adjacent buildings through a series
of tunnels nearly ten feet high which extend as far as the Union, half a mile across the Campus.

Aside from the smaller and the more temporary buildings and the many dwelling houses on property
recently acquired, the buildings of the University number about forty. This does not include
the buildings occupied by the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A., or the Psychopathic Hospital, the
titles to which do not rest with the Board of Regents.

Though the buildings on the Campus have not, until very recently, been placed with any careful
relationship to a general scheme, and exhibit a very unfortunate lack of architectural harmony,
in certain features the Campus gives promise of better things in the future. Some of the buildings
have real beauty, though it is too often lost in an unfavorable environment. Charming details
are to be found here and there, while the green canopy of the elms and maples planted sixty
years ago helps to give our academic field a real distinction. Fortunately the center of the
Campus has been left comparatively free of buildings, save for the rambling old Chemistry Building,
now used by the departments of Physiology and Economics, and the plain but imposing bulk of
the new Library Building, a fitting center whence paths diverge in every direction to the halls
and laboratories along the avenues that mark the outer confines of the Campus. Lack of funds
and the imperative need of room, and yet more room, for the thousands of new students, has
severely limited the Regents in the matter of adornment of the buildings erected in recent
years, which have all tended to conform to one type, simple, dignified in their very rectangular
bulk, and relieved only by patterns in tapestry brick and terra cotta trimmings.

Within recent years, too, the new buildings have been carefully placed, not only with reference
to the present Campus, but also the inevitable northeastward growth of the University toward
the hills lining the river. For some time the Regents have been acquiring scattered parcels
of property as occasion presented, and now own a good share of the land in the triangle bounded
roughly by Hill Auditorium, the University Hospitals and Palmer Field, an area twice as large
as the present Campus. In addition there is the University Arboretum and Botanical Gardens,
a large area south and east of Forest Hill Cemetery, which is now linked up by boulevards with
the rapidly growing system of city parks.

A formal entrance to the Campus in the form of a double driveway, laid out in accordance with
a plan prepared in 1906 by Professor Emil Lorch of the Department of Architecture, and known
as the Mall, passes between the Chemistry and Natural Science Buildings. This forms practically
a continuation of Ingalls Street between Hill Auditorium and a future companion, possibly a
new Museum, which will eventually be built to the east on the other corner. The impressive
vista thus formed leads the eye to the massive façade of the new Library, though the Campus
flagstaff, some distance in front, now marks the actual end of the new driveway. The architectural
emphasis of the Campus is thus being turned to the north, but the western, or State Street
side still remains the accepted front, dominated by the old-fashioned but nevertheless stately
bulk of old University Hall. Within a short time State Street has become, through the fortunate
removal of several unsightly old survivals of earlier days, one of the most beautiful of academic
avenues, flanked on one side by the Campus, with its trees, broad spaces and dignified buildings,
and by a row of public buildings on the western side, which, though sadly lacking in uniformity,
are yet for the most part impressive and substantial. These include the Congregational Church,
the two halls of residence for women, the older Newberry Hall, a number of fraternity houses,
and particularly the commanding beauty of the Michigan Union.

It is fortunate for the University and the community that the problem of the future development
of the institution in relation to the city is being carefully considered. The expansion of
the Campus to the north and northeast is now established, and it is probable that at some future
period the Mall, lined with monumental buildings, and laid out in co-operation with the city,
will extend to the river. Ann Arbor has already taken far-sighted measures in establishing
a series of boulevards and parks along the river with connecting links which will eventually
encircle the town. The extensive University properties in the Arboretum and Botanical Gardens,
which cover the hills defining the ravine extending from the river to Geddes Avenue, and join
the present enlarged University grounds at the Observatory, form part of this system. Plans
are now under consideration for a rearrangement of streets, which will afford easier access
from the Campus to the Hospitals and the boulevards and river drives. These will give to this
portion of the future University grounds an irregularity and picturesqueness wholly lacking
on the flat hilltop occupied by the present Campus. One of the difficulties in this plan is
the old "Cat-hole," the end of a ravine, whose steep hillsides extend from the river practically
to the northeast corner of the Campus. Though this unsightly boghole has been gradually filled
in, it still forms a blot on the landscape which might, nevertheless, with a little effort
and comparatively small expense, be transformed into a charming open air theater. This in fact
has been recommended by Mr. Frederick Law Olmstead, the landscape architect, who has made an
extensive study of the whole problem for the city and the University.

It is fortunate for the University that this plan for the future, tentative though it may be
at present, is actually a part of a large scheme for the improvement of the city, suggested
by Mr. Olmstead. Ann Arbor is fast becoming one of the most beautiful little cities in the
country, with winding streets, shaded by noble maples and elms and many of the original forest
oaks, and lined by substantial homes, charming in their simple architecture and setting. This
development came at first, as was natural, largely from the Faculty, but an increasing number
of families from Detroit and elsewhere have of late come to make Ann Arbor their permanent
residence, attracted by the unusual beauty of the city and the advantages afforded by the University.
The sightly range of hills along the Huron between Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti and about the new
Barton Pond, two miles to the north and west of the city, recently developed as a water-power
site, are soon to be dotted here and there with comfortable and attractive country homes, which
promise to change the entire character of Ann Arbor's environs. The little country town of
the past is fast disappearing.

With these plans rapidly evolving there is every reason to hope that, at no distant period,
the University may find an imposing physical setting more in keeping with her standing among
American universities. The present is an era of transition; as yet she has hardly had time
to adjust herself to the extraordinary growth of the last ten years; still less to realize
all the problems it involves. But it requires no great vision to see the University of the
future occupying at last the heights overlooking the Huron valley which that unfortunate decision
at the first meeting of the Regents denied to her in 1837.

CHAPTER XIII

THE UNIVERSITY IN WAR TIMES

Michigan has had a most honorable record in the three wars in which the country has been engaged
since the first class was graduated. Though two of her early graduates were veterans of the
Mexican War, it was not until the Civil War that the opportunity came to show what kind of
citizens of the Republic were in the making in this pioneer State University. The catalogue
of 1864 lists only 999 graduates. Yet the number of Michigan men who served in the Civil War
was within a few of 2,000. This number of course includes many students who left never to return
and many who entered the University, particularly the professional schools, in the years immediately
after the war. Practically half of the members of the classes of '59, '60, '61, and '62 served
in the war, and '62 alone lost seven members out of twenty-two in service. The college men
of the sixties were no less ready than their grandsons in 1917.

Feeling ran high in the University during the period just before the Civil War. The students
were nearly all strong and vigorous products of pioneer life, good hunters and rifle shots,
with a love of individual liberty and free speech. Many were studying for the ministry. Anti-slavery
sentiment was all but unanimous, except for the one or two students from the South, but few
could be called out and out abolitionists. It is difficult nowadays to understand the sentiment
which led to the mobbing of an abolitionist speaker, Parker Pillsbury, some months before war
was declared. He knew from personal experience that the South was arming and came to urge the
citizens of the North to prepare for the struggle. Yet when he attempted to speak in Ann Arbor
a mob collected and would have none of his advice; they stormed the little Free Church on North
State Street, driving audience and speaker out of the rear windows and gutting the building.
Similar troubles were threatened when Wendell Phillips was advertised to speak on abolition
a month or so later. In view of the first experience, there was great difficulty in finding
a hall, but finally the trustees of the old Congregational Church decided that if the building
"must be razed to the ground, let it go down in behalf of free speech and the great cause of
liberty." The class of '61 also decided that free speech must be protected, and on the appointed
evening was present in force with hickory clubs, twelve members in front and more scattered
about inside. While the church was packed there was no demonstration, though the mob "howled
outside."

Most of the students who heard Phillips that night left confirmed abolitionists, and some were
among the first to take up arms. To us, nowadays, the state of public opinion at that time
seems almost incomprehensible. Few of the individual members of those mobs were in real sympathy
with the South, but party affiliations were strong and, in the words of Judge Cheever, '63,
who describes these troubles, they were held back from openly showing abolitionist principles
by "their fear that an open contest would lead to the destruction of the government." Within
a year a good part of the rioters were in the Union Army.

Throughout the troubled period preceding the actual outbreak of war, President Tappan was circumspect
in his public utterances, and was considered conservative on the slavery question though he
presided at the Wendell Phillips meeting. The professorial radical of those days was the young
Andrew D. White. He was in closer touch with the students than his colleagues, and his personal
influence and brilliant lectures on modern history swept his students on into bold opinions
and resolute action.

When Sumter was fired upon the University was aflame at once. Although it was Sunday when the
news of the surrender came, there was no thought of services. A platform of boxes and planks
was raised on the Court House Square and Dr. Tappan was sent for. Upon his arrival, Bible in
hand, he found a large and a serious gathering awaiting him. Heretofore President Tappan had
permitted himself to say little, though his students were thrilled occasionally by some remark
which showed how keenly alive he was to the great issues of the time. Now he could speak. After
reading some heroic passages from the Old Testament, he spoke, in the words of Gen. W.H.H.
Beadle, '61,--

     With mind and heart and soul in heroic agony, as if long-formed
     opinions and long silenced feelings now burst into utterance.... In
     all Michigan's history this was the great historic occasion.

The contemporaries of Dr. Tappan are unanimous in their judgment of his extraordinary ability
as a speaker, to which a majestic figure and magnificent voice no less than his logic and apt
illustrations contributed. But on this day he made the effort of his career. From that time
the University was whole-heartedly for the Union and the war.

Student companies were organized at once; and the Tappan Guards under Charles Kendall Adams,
'61, the Chancellor Greys, under Isaac H. Elliot, '62, and the Ellsworth Zouaves, under Albert
Nye, '62, who died at Murfreesboro in 1862, formed a University Battalion which enrolled practically
every student in the University. This was not the first effort of the sort, however, for five
years before Professor W.P. Trowbridge, a graduate of West Point, had organized the first University
Battalion, with uniforms and arms furnished by the Government, and had managed to have a small
building erected as an armory, which was later to become the first gymnasium. This experiment
was short-lived and came to an end when Professor Trowbridge resigned the following year. With
the organization of the new battalion the duty of drill master fell upon Joseph H. Vance, the
steward of the University, who was also assistant librarian. The President set apart a room
at the south end of the south College, and there the students, in sections of fifty, drilled
for an hour each day. The old muskets had been called in by the Government some time before,
and sticks were perforce the ordinary armament. This drill continued for the rest of the year
and for most of 1862. The men who thus received their preliminary training were to be found
later in practically every corps and division of the Union Army.

These military efforts, however, did not satisfy the more restless spirits and many left the
University immediately, few of whom ever returned to finish their course. Of the fifty-four
who graduated with the "war class" of '61, twenty-four entered the service, in addition to
eight who did not stay to finish their work, in all thirty-two out of sixty-two. The students
in the two professional departments were no less eager for service, as is shown by the remarkable
record of the medical class of '61, thirty of whose forty-four graduates saw active service.
Among the Michigan men in the Civil War at least twelve, eight of whom held degrees, rose to
the rank of brigadier-general, three of them from the class of '61. Of this number apparently
only one, Elon Farnsworth, '55-'58, actually commanded a brigade in battle. He was killed while
bravely leading a hopeless charge at Gettysburg.

Michigan's war records are full of stories of brave deeds, but few surpass the heroism of William
Longshaw, '59m, an assistant surgeon in the Navy, who undertook to carry a line from his ship,
the Nahant, to the Lehigh, which had run aground in the attack on Fort Moultrie. Twice he was
successful but the intense fire directed on his little boat by the batteries on shore cut the
line each time. By this time Longshaw found the wounded needing his attention and he gave over
the task to another who made a third and successful trip. For this exploit Longshaw was cited
in general orders read from every quarter-deck in the fleet. He was killed while attending
a wounded marine under equally heroic circumstances during the attack on Fort Fisher.

While Michigan men entered service from every Union State, the largest number, naturally, were
in the Michigan regiments, particularly the Twentieth Michigan Infantry, in which a large number
of officers, including every one in the two Ann Arbor companies, were University men. In one
year, November, 1863, to November, 1864, 537 of the Regiment's total enrolment of 1,157 were
killed, wounded, or prisoners, while three times it lost almost fifty percent of all the men
engaged, at Spottsylvania, at Petersburg, and finally at the assault on the Crater, after which
there were only eighty men and four officers left for duty. In another Michigan regiment, the
Seventh, was Capt. Allan H. Zacharias of the class of '60 whose last letter, written on an
old envelope and clutched in his dead hand, forms an imperishable portion of Michigan's annals:

     Dear Parent, Brothers and Sisters: I am wounded, mortally I think.
     The fight rages round me.

Your son Allen.

Within a year after peace was declared a plan was under way for a Memorial Building in memory
of the graduates of the University who had fallen in the war. A committee appointed by the
Alumni Association presented the matter to the Board of Regents, but they were unable to take
any action. The project was never forgotten, however, and was brought up year after year in
alumni gatherings until in 1903 a committee under the Chairmanship of Judge C.B. Grant, '59,
a former Colonel of the Twentieth Michigan, was appointed. This committee was so successful
in its efforts that the Memorial Building was eventually dedicated in May, 1910. A large tablet
by the sculptor A.A. Weinman bearing the inscription given on the following page, was placed,
in June, 1914, on the right wall just inside the entrance.

A further investigation of the war records of the graduates of the University revealed many
more names than were known when the tablet was designed, so that now the total in the morocco
bound volume which is conspicuously placed in the building carries the records of 2,424 who
served in the three wars.

 THIS HALL ERECTED ANNO DOMINI 1909-1910
 UNDER DIRECTION OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BY THE ALUMNI
 AND FRIENDS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS DEDICATED
 TO THE MEMORY OF HER PATRIOTIC SONS WHO SERVED IN

     THREE OF HER COUNTRY'S WARS NAMELY
     TWO IN THE MEXICAN WAR A.D. 1847
     ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED FOURTEEN
     IN THE CIVIL WAR A.D. 1861-1865

 FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY SIX IN THE SPANISH WAR A.D. 1898
 A RECORD OF THEIR NAMES AND MILITARY HISTORY IS
 DEPOSITED IN THE ARCHIVES OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

        *       *       *       *       *

 THE WORLD WILL LITTLE NOTE NOR LONG REMEMBER WHAT WE
 SAY HERE BUT IT CAN NEVER FORGET WHAT THEY DID HERE--
 LINCOLN AT GETTYSBURG

Though the number of Michigan men in the Spanish-American War was naturally much smaller, the
total mounted to very nearly four hundred, of whom eight lost their lives, including one member
of the Rough Riders, Oliver B. Norton, '01m, killed by a shell at San Juan Hill. The contingents
from at least fifteen states included Michigan graduates, but the greater number were to be
found in the five Michigan volunteer regiments, particularly the 31st and 32nd, though there
were a number in the 33rd and 34th that formed with the 9th Massachusetts the Brigade commanded
by Brigadier-General Henry M. Duffield, '58-'59, which was one of the few volunteer units to
see active service in Cuba.

In the Navy a large proportion of the Michigan men were members of the Michigan State Naval
Brigade on the U.S.S. Yosemite, of which Dean M.E. Cooley, at that time Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, was Chief Engineer. The Yosemite was a converted yacht used as a scout and convoy.
Within a month after going into commission she was assigned to the task of convoying some 800
marines on the Panther to Guantanamo. It happened that the first load was taken ashore on June
10 by one of the boats of the Yosemite and it is said the first American flag was planted on
Cuban soil by a University of Michigan member of the crew. Later in June the Yosemite met a
big Spanish mail steamer, the Antonio Lopez, with ammunition and supplies for San Juan and
succeeded in beaching her under the fierce fire of the shore batteries and after attacks by
three Spanish gunboats, which were twice driven into the harbor.

In addition to many graduates and students of the Medical Department attached to the different
units, two members of the Faculty, Dean Victor C. Vaughan, Divisional Surgeon at Siboney, and
Dr. C.B.G. de Nancrède, Surgeon of the 34th, saw active service in Cuba as Majors on the Medical
Staff. Their courage and devotion to duty were mentioned in the Surgeon-General's report.

Michigan was also represented in the war cabinet by its leader, William R. Day, '70, Secretary
of State, while the Assistant Secretary of War, a most important post in those exciting months,
was George DeRue Meiklejohn, '80l. Judge Day was also President of the commission which negotiated
the peace at Paris after the war, with Cushman K. Davis, '57, chairman of the Senate Committee
on Foreign Affairs, as one of the other members.

According to the latest available records there were at least 12,000 sons of the University
of Michigan in service during the World War. Of this number over 229 gave their lives for the
principles for which America was fighting. At the Seventy-fifth Commencement, which came the
year following the Armistice, the University's service flag, which hung in Hill Auditorium,
revealed the fact that at that time the names were known of 10,243 students and alumni in uniform.
This figure mounted rapidly in subsequent months, though the difficulties of following the
careers of many former soldiers through the period of demobilization have made it very difficult
to obtain even an approximately correct estimate. This is particularly true in the case of
thousands of students who left the University during the years 1917 and 1918. An analysis of
the figures given on the service flag showed that of the total 7,669 were known to be actually
in service while 2,747 were in the University, enrolled in the army and navy units of the Student
Army Training Corps. As these men were in uniform and regularly inducted in the two branches
of service and would all have been sent overseas within a short time had the war continued,
their names must be included.

Such are the bare statistics of Michigan's part in the fight for the principles which have
made America what she is. The war came slowly to the University. During the years just preceding
the entrance of the United States there was probably no part of the world as little touched
by the actualities overseas as the mid-western portion of the United States. The seaboard states
felt it, in their commerce and other contacts with Europe, far more than the vast central region,
which had been favored with an unexampled wave of prosperity. So while America was at peace,
the war spirit in the University was for the most part latent, far more so than in many of
the universities of the East, where the implications and the realities of the war, which always
come more vividly through personal relationships, led to more vigorous preparatory measures
and many enlistments for service in the English, Canadian, and French armies.

The lessons the struggle on the Marne, in Flanders and Gallipoli was teaching were by no means
unheeded, however, and a strong movement for military training in the University developed
as early as November, 1914, when a petition signed by fifty members of the Faculty, including
the Deans of the Medical, Engineering, and Law Schools, for the establishment of a military
course in the University was presented to the Regents. This had no immediate effect, however,
and it was not until the University Senate took similar action a year later that the movement
was really inaugurated. The opinion was as yet by no means unanimous in favor of the plan,
for a straw vote of the Faculty showed 85 for and 55 against the general principle of military
training for students, with a somewhat smaller majority in favor of making it compulsory. A
similar vote among the students showed 1,040 for the plan and 932 against it. In March, 1916,
the Regents took favorable action on the project, though the course was not compulsory. Several
military companies and a naval reserve unit were organized immediately, and the students were
encouraged to attend the summer camps at Plattsburg and Fort Sheridan.

It took over a year and the stimulus of the actual entry of the United States into the war
to bring to practical completion the plan of the Regents for voluntary training, with a course
in military science instituted under officers designated by the War Department. Co-operation
on the part of the Government, too, came slowly. There was great difficulty in harmonizing
the University system with the government plan for college military training which was embodied
in General Orders 49, establishing a Reserve Officers' Training Corps. Many meetings took place
between officers detailed by the War Department and a committee, composed of the heads of various
universities, of which President Hutchins was a member, before a modification of the government
program was eventually secured. This made the prescribed course more elastic, and put military
drill wholly or in part in summer camps. Inasmuch as the students under this plan could not
be appointed reserve officers without examinations, it was not strictly the R.O.T.C. as originally
contemplated by the Government, but it was a practical solution. As a matter of fact most of
these difficulties of organization vanished when the United States entered the war, on April
6, 1917, in the general enthusiasm and eagerness to serve. The great practical question became
a matter of the detail of a competent army officer to the University.

Meanwhile the students lost no time; little companies could be seen drilling everywhere on
the streets. Three hundred students stayed over the spring vacation and drilled for four hours
every afternoon. By May 315 men had been recommended for training camps, and 500 had left the
University to enlist. The Regents also authorized the circulation of the 43,000 alumni and
former students for the University Intelligence Bureau, and 25,000 replies, giving the qualifications
of each individual for various forms of war service, were received. The Engineering College
announced seven preliminary courses in military science, while the Medical School, with almost
the whole Faculty enlisted, foreseeing the need of surgeons turned its whole force to training
the upper classmen, and the Law School so arranged its programme that twelve hours a week were
given over to drill. The upper class medical, engineering, and dental students were also enlisted
as reserves while completing their courses.

It was not until October, 1917, that the Officers' Training Corps really got under way, as
a definite part of the curriculum. But once started the response was overwhelming. Though the
attendance in the University had declined by 1,239, and the course was not compulsory, there
were 1,800 enrolled by the end of the first week. To introduce this great body of embryo soldiers
to the rudiments of military drill the Government sent just one officer, Lieut. George C. Mullen,
who had retired after some years' service in the earlier Philippine campaigns. Later came two
sergeants, and another officer, Lieut. Losey J. Williams. With this slender force, and the
aid of a company of Faculty men who drilled every night in order to prepare themselves as advisors,
or "tactical officers" to supervise the student company commanders and with 300 old rifles,
Michigan managed to "carry on," maintaining the largest, though owing to these difficulties
probably not the most effective R.O.T.C. organization in the country. Nevertheless it served
a very useful purpose, as its continually dwindling ranks indicated; for the better men were
leaving all the time for the numerous training camps which had been established in the meantime.
Of the 800 who received commissions after the first course at Camp Custer only 60 percent survived,
but among these were all the candidates sent from the Michigan R.O.T.C., twenty-two of whom
were included in the first hundred.

The University may also claim particular credit for the development of courses in army stores,
which were first instituted by Professor, later Lieutenant-Colonel, Joseph A. Bursley, '99e.
This course, which aimed to fit men for the ordnance and quartermasters departments, grew through
six successive increments every six weeks, to about 250 men, and proved so practical and effective
that similar courses were installed in other universities. In the same manner similar short
courses were established in the Engineering College for the training of mechanics, particularly
in the maintenance and repair of gas engines. The first course of eight weeks began on April
15, 1917, and prepared 195 men for this important branch of the service. A detachment of 700
men followed which included 500 automobile repair men, 100 general mechanics, 60 gunsmiths,
and 40 carpenters.

These men came as enlisted soldiers and were under the command of Captain, later Major, R.H.
Durkee. Five old residences belonging to the University were transformed into barracks, while
the still far from completed Union was used as a mess hall. The laboratory facilities of the
Engineering College naturally proved inadequate for so large a number, and temporary buildings
sprang up rapidly in every open space nearby, erected by the men in the detachments. In addition
to the technical training given these men, who were not, however, enrolled as university students,
various special courses were given in war aims which proved of great value in furthering morale.
This whole effort proved so effective that the Government desired to make a contract for the
training of 2,800 men from October, 1918, through July, 1919; but this was more than the University
could care for, though it agreed to take 1,140, including 60 telephone linemen, and 600 telephone
electricians.

The next step came in the establishment of the Students' Army Training Corps in the fall of
1918. This was designed to correct the weaknesses, revealed under the stress of war-time conditions,
in the old R.O.T.C., which in most universities did not furnish really effective military training
for the emergency, particularly in the matter of discipline. The passing of the draft law also
threatened the very existence of many of the private colleges and the plan to carry on university
work and military training, side by side, while the students were actually inducted and under
strict military discipline, seemed an ideal solution of a most threatening problem. Michigan,
therefore, in common with every other college and university which could muster the necessary
one hundred students, became in effect a military academy with the opening of the University
in October, 1918, though of course there were many students not enrolled in the S.A.T.C., particularly
the women, and the medical, engineering, and dental reserves who were completing their courses.
The total S.A.T.C. enlistment was 2,727, of whom 2,151 were enrolled in the Army, and 586 in
the Naval Training Corps; these were entered as regular students in the University, while 2,247
more in Section B, the army mechanics course, were not considered University students.

Thus with the largest S.A.T.C. enrolment of any university in the country, Michigan gladly
devoted all her resources to the one supreme aim of training soldiers. Practically every fraternity
house was turned over to the War Department as a barracks; the mysterious Greek letters were
dropped and henceforth they were known simply by number--officially at least. The sum of $260,000
was borrowed from the State War Board to hasten the completion of the Union sufficiently to
serve as a mess hall and kitchen, and this together with a temporary building erected alongside
accommodated some 3,650 men. The Union also furnished sleeping quarters for 800 student soldiers.
The fact that Michigan had a building so well adapted to the needs of the new situation was
perhaps the principal factor in enabling the University to enter upon the programme so extensively.
Dean Mortimer E. Cooley of the Engineering College was made Regional Educational Director with
the work in all the colleges and universities in Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan under his
charge, while some forty army officers, many of them recent graduates of training camps, were
detailed to the University as officers in charge.

Difficulties arose everywhere from the very first, however. The plan, which was not definitely
approved by the War Department until a month before the opening of the colleges, was naturally
not carefully worked out in detail. But this was a minor matter compared with a more serious
defect in the general scheme. This was the lack of competent military officers, men with sufficient
vision to co-operate effectively with the universities. The officers detailed were for the
most part retired from active service, or recent recruits from training camps, and it was the
exaggerated emphasis of things military on the part of the latter class that was largely responsible
for the difficulty, noticeable from the very first, of maintaining any semblance of university
work. The scheme provided for 42 hours of class work and study (14 hours of recitation with
28 hours of preparation) and only 13 hours of military drill; but the almost universal experience
was that the military officers wholly misinterpreted the object of the plan and, with their
strict control over their men, were able to discount, almost completely in some cases, the
educational side of the programme. To add to the confusion, the onset of the influenza epidemic
at just this time made the task of bringing order out of chaos almost impossible. Nevertheless,
by the time the end came with the signing of the Armistice, measures were under way which might
have saved the situation by curbing the complete ascendancy of the military officers, and restoring
the scheme to its original essentially educational policy; for, in the original plan, the military
features were to go only so far as to enable the authorities to select the best men for further
intensive training at the officers' camps.

This broad military programme was by no means confined to the students, as the whole curriculum
of the University was necessarily almost wholly subordinated to the new scheme. Many courses
not included in the outline prescribed by the Government, such as the classics, fine arts,
and philosophy, were practically discontinued or given in a limited form to the few men not
in service and the women students in the University. Many members of the Faculty abandoned
their own subjects entirely and confined their work to the courses on war issues, which had
come to form an important part of the new curriculum, or to elementary work in modern languages,
especially French; German being for the most part anathema. This was a mistake; as one government
inspector, himself a teacher of English, was accustomed to say emphatically, German was going
to be needed even more than French; and so it turned out in the later days of the occupation
of Germany. Nevertheless the decline of interest in the German language and literature, which
had long been so carefully cultivated, as we can see now, by the German government, is one
of the permanent results of the war; while there has been a corresponding increase in the study
of French and Spanish.

Throughout this period, the women of the University were far from passive spectators. Special
courses in household economics, conservation of food, French, journalism, and publicity and
the principles of censorship, as well as a course in drafting in the Engineering College were
provided for them. The women of the Faculty and town threw themselves indefatigably into Red
Cross service, with the presidential residence on the Campus, known as Angell House, as one
of the principal headquarters. A Hostess House was also maintained in the parlors of Barbour
Gymnasium for the families and sweethearts of men in the training detachments, while at one
time the great floor of Waterman Gymnasium was used as a barracks. With the inauguration of
the S.A.T.C., Alumni Memorial Hall was taken over as a Hostess House and maintained entirely
by Ann Arbor women. Likewise during the worst of the influenza epidemic, the terrors of which
were multiplied by the constant arrival of stricken men in new detachments, and the lack of
adequate hospital facilities for such an unforeseen emergency, the women gave themselves, and
in some cases their homes, to the cause, and helped to save many lives.

Thus the University gave itself over unreservedly to winning the war. No one can measure how
great actually and potentially that service was. But Michigan's contribution was far from resting
there. Thousands of her sons, alumni and students, were in service, a goodly proportion with
the forces in France and elsewhere and with the Navy, while at least 229 are to be represented
by a gold star on the University's great service flag.

Though Michigan officially remained aloof from active participation in the issues of the struggle
before America entered it, she had many representatives in the fighting ranks. Professor René
Talamon, of the French Department, who was spending his honeymoon in France, entered the French
Army in 1914 and saw active service in all the great earlier battles, winning the Croix de
Guerre on the field. He remained in uniform throughout the four years and completed his record
by acting as interpreter at the Peace Conference. Frederic W. Zinn, '14e a student just graduated,
was of that immortal company of Americans in the French Foreign Legion, whose exploits have
so often been told, and was one of the twelve survivors of a section of sixty. He was severely
wounded in the Champagne offensive and subsequently entered the French and later the American
Aviation Services. There were also many Michigan men scattered through the British and Canadian
forces, and at least one, Stanley J. Schooley, e'09-'12, was with the Anzacs to the end at
Gallipoli. George B.F. Monk, '13d, a Lieutenant in the Royal Warwickshires, was killed in Flanders,
December 18, 1914, while another dental graduate, John Austen Ogden, '04d, was killed in France.
Lieut. Thomas C. Bechraft, '09l, who enlisted with the Canadians, was killed by a sniper at
the great British attack on Vimy Ridge, April 4, 1917;--one wonders whether he knew then that
America had entered the war; and Theodore Harvey Clark, '14, died from sunstroke, September
9, 1917, while serving with the Y.M.C.A. in Mesopotamia.

Of the little company of Americans in the French ambulance service, among whom were a number
of former students of the University, were the two Hall brothers, sons of Dr. Louis P. Hall,
'89d, Professor of Dentistry in the University. Richard Nelville Hall, '11-'12, who later was
graduated from Dartmouth, was killed on Christmas morning, 1915, when his car was struck by
a stray shell, the first American to be killed in the ambulance service. His brother Louis
P. Hall, Dartmouth, '12, Michigan, '14e, later became a lieutenant in the French army, and
eventually captain in the American Expeditionary Forces.

It will thus be seen that Michigan's share in the war did not await the entry of America among
the Allies, although it was not until the forces of the country were definitely enlisted that
her real contribution, in men and services, was made. With the opening of the great training
camps, the alumni, particularly those of more recent years, as well as the students of the
University volunteered literally in thousands, and Michigan was soon represented by men and
officers in every branch of the service. They were in the first contingent of the expeditionary
forces, the Rainbow Division, and figured prominently in the earliest fighting about the St.
Mihiel salient, at Cantigny, and later with the Marines at Belleau Wood. Many were of course
held in America, to their disgust, to train the new levies under the draft law, while others
were assigned particular duties for which their special training had fitted them. Thus we find
Michigan represented everywhere in the Medical and Dental Corps, the early engineering battalions,
the rapidly evolving work of the signal corps, the military intelligence and censorship divisions,
gas warfare and gas defense, publicity, and perhaps above all, the aviation service, for which
the young college man seemed peculiarly fitted. There were several Michigan men among the first
aviation sections in France; several were killed and others captured in early combats. The
arrival of the later contingents brought Michigan men with every division; they were everywhere
in the Argonne battle, they were with the famous "lost battalion," and with the American forces
included in the British sectors, as well as among the engineers who helped to stop the gap
after the disaster to the Fifth British Army.

Perhaps the most striking contribution Michigan made towards winning the war was in manning
the big naval guns which did more than any one thing to cut the German lines of communication
through the gap by Sedan between Longuyon and Montmedy. It is not too much to say that it was
the work of these guns, in the hands of the men and officers recruited largely from the two
naval divisions who left the University in the spring of 1917, that formed one of the great
arguments which led to the Armistice of November 11. These two divisions of about seventy men
each were organized in the fall of 1916, and with the entry of the United States in the war
were immediately mustered into service with Professors J.R. Hayden of the Department of Political
Science and Orange J. McNiel of the Engineering College as the commanding officers. For some
time they were held in Ann Arbor, where they were quartered in the Gymnasium, later going to
the Great Lakes Training Station for further preparation.

Within a short time they were assigned to the various rifle ranges which were being established
up and down the Atlantic coast by Major Harllee of the Marine Corps and given intensive training
in gunnery. So well did they show up in this specialized task, for intensive training in marksmanship
was one of the Navy's great needs, that little squads of the men were sent everywhere to install
and open up new ranges. Meanwhile the need of big guns on the French front was becoming more
and more apparent and one officer, Captain, and later Admiral, Plunkett bethought him of a
number of great 14-inch navy guns which were not in use. He conceived the idea of mounting
these on railway carriages and making great mobile batteries of them. At first he was laughed
at; it was impossible to make heavy enough trucks to carry such a weight; and then, where were
the expert men to man them? He replied that he knew where he could get the men and called in
experts to design the carriages. The result was that in just fifty days the first gun was successfully
fired from the railway mounting at the proving ground at Sandy Hook, by the Michigan Naval
Volunteers. When the guns were shipped to France all the Michigan men available were sent with
them and formed the effective nucleus of every crew. They wore the marine uniform with naval
insignia and were under naval discipline throughout; they went "fore" and "aft" on the great
trains which accompanied each gun, pointed their pieces to "port" and "starboard" and were
rated according to navy ranking.

Their great task came when the guns with their equipment first landed at St. Nazaire. Not only
was it necessary to assemble the guns, but also the locomotives and accompanying armored cars.
All of this work was done by the men of the two units as officers and petty officers. When
these guns finally got into action, they outranged every battery on any front and, striking
at the German railway lines of communication, now from this point and then that, they threw
the whole "neck of the bottle" toward which the American forces were driving into hopeless
confusion. Of the men in these two battalions over sixty percent received commissions, and
of the others, almost all held high ratings as petty officers with responsibilities ordinarily
only assumed by commissioned officers.

With so great a number of Michigan men with the expeditionary forces, the University was particularly
interested in their welfare while "over there." From the first Michigan took a prominent part
in the establishment of the American University Union in Paris, of which President Hutchins
was one of the first Board of Trustees. Professor Charles B. Vibbert, '04, of the Department
of Philosophy was appointed Director of the Michigan Bureau by President Hutchins and was made
one of the Executive Committee in Paris. Here he rendered most effective service to the hundreds
of Michigan men who used the club house, a large hotel in the heart of Paris, as their headquarters.
He was also assigned as his special duty, the promotion of friendly relations between the Americans
and the French people of Paris, and so successful was he in this task that he was awarded the
Legion of Honor by the French government. After the end of the demobilization period he remained
in Paris for a time as Director of a permanent Union which succeeded the war organization.
Two other representatives of the University, Mr. Warren J. Vinton, '11, for some time Professor
Vibbert's assistant, and Assistant Professor Philip E. Bursley, '02, one of the general secretaries,
were on the Union's staff.

No review of Michigan's record in the war would be complete without a word as to the share
of the Faculty. As never before this was a war of scientists and technically trained men. There
was hardly a subject taught in the University which did not fit in somewhere, while the work
of such departments as chemistry, physics, astronomy, mathematics, and the various branches
of engineering, to say nothing of the Schools of Medicine and the Colleges of Dentistry and
Pharmacy, proved absolutely indispensable. Long before this country entered the war Dean M.E.
Cooley had offered his services to the Government, when the crisis which he and many others
foresaw, should come.

In all there were 162 members of the Faculty in various forms of war service, a large proportion
of them in uniform. Among those to whom were assigned particularly noteworthy tasks were Dean
Victor C. Vaughan, '78m, of the Medical Advisory Board of the Council of National Defense and
later Colonel on the staff of the Surgeon-General in Washington, where was also Dr. Walter
R. Parker, '88e, Professor of Ophthalmology, who as Lieutenant-Colonel in the Medical Corps
had charge of head surgery. Dr. Udo J. Wile, Professor of Dermatology, Major in the Medical
Corps, was among the earliest medical officers abroad, where he was in charge of the first
American hospital in England, near Liverpool.

In the Literary College, among the many who early entered service were Jesse S. Reeves, Professor
of Political Science, who entered the Aviation Service and later the Judge Advocates' Department,
holding the rank of major; Peter Field, Associate Professor of Mathematics, who, as Major in
the Ordnance Department, had charge of the tests and ballistic computations, as well as serving
as armament officer, at the Sandy Hook proving grounds; Moses Gomberg, '90, Professor of Organic
Chemistry, who as Major in the Ordnance Service made valuable investigations, and Professor
H.R. Cross of the Department of Fine Arts, who held an important post with the Red Cross in Italy.

The men of technical training of the Engineering Faculty were especially in demand and practically
every man in one Department, that of Chemical Engineering was in service. Alfred H. White,
'93, Professor of Chemical Engineering, became Lieutenant-Colonel in charge of the construction
of the great government nitrate plants; Walter T. Fishleigh, '02, '06e, Associate Professor
of Automobile Engineering, as Lieutenant-Colonel, was, with Major Gordon Stoner, '04, '06l,
Professor of Law in the University, in charge of the design and purchase of all the ambulances
for the Medical Corps. Lieutenant-Colonel William C. Hoad, Professor of Sanitary Engineering,
took charge of the sanitation of the big training camps.

Many other members of the Faculty, in civilian capacities, gave no less valuable services to
the Government. Professor Herbert C. Sadler, head of the Department of Marine Engineering,
became chief of the department of ship design of the Emergency Fleet Corporation; James W.
Glover, Professor of Mathematics and Insurance, was a member of the War Risk Board; Dr. G.
Carl Huber, '87m, Professor of Anatomy, carried on an extended series of investigations of
the peripheral nerves, with the assistance of medical officers detailed to his laboratory by
the Surgeon-General; David Friday, '08, Professor of Economics, was Statistical Advisor to
the Treasury Department and later the Telephone and Telegraph Administration, while Dean Henry
M. Bates, '90, of the Law School, and Professor H.C. Adams, head of the Department of Economics,
also at various times acted in advisory capacities at Washington. Francis L. D. Goodrich, '03,
was also Reference Librarian at the University of the American Expeditionary Force at Beaune,
France.

With the end of the war every effort was made to bring the University back to normal conditions
as soon as possible. The speedy demobilization of the S.A.T.C. made advisable the abandonment
of the plan of a year of four quarters and the semester system was restored by February. The
members of the Faculty gradually returned during the year, and by the fall of 1919 everything
was as usual, save for the extraordinary enrolment, which totaled 8,057 students on the Campus
during the year, with a grand total of 9,401 in all, including the Summer Session. This increase
was largely due to the men returning from service to finish their abandoned work, or to take
up a belated University course. Eighty men who had been wounded were sent by the Government
Rehabilitation Division.

Such an unprecedented number of students, which was larger by 1,500 than ever before, naturally
brought with it many difficult problems, particularly in living accommodations. These difficulties
were aggravated by the sharp rise in room rent and board, which brought hardship in many cases
and was only adjusted by the prompt action of the Rooming Bureau of the Michigan Union, which
made a complete survey of the city and brought pressure to bear in cases of outrageous profiteering.
Equally difficult proved the question of teachers and class rooms in the University. This was
only solved after many new instructors were engaged, a difficult matter at so late a period
in the year, and the creation of many emergency class rooms. Special credits were also given
the men returning from service, in some cases as high as fifteen hours, equaling a semester's
work, in recognition of their special war-time experience and training and the new earnestness
and appreciation of what a university education meant, with which they returned to their class
rooms and laboratories.

University life speedily returned to its accustomed channels; only the service buttons, the
modest ribbons in lapels, and khaki and blue overcoats remained to suggest the Campus of a
year before. So great was the reaction from things military that the re-establishment of the
R.O.T.C. in modified form came slowly. Eventually about 180 men, largely from the freshmen
and sophomore classes, were enrolled in the artillery and signal service units under the two
officers detailed to the University, Captain Robert Arthur and Captain John P. Lucas, who held
the temporary rank of Lieutenant-Colonels in France. These courses promise much for the future,
however, though during the University year the work is confined to technical training, with
the drill to come in the annual summer camps which every man enrolled must attend. Not only
will men be continually in training as reserve officers, effective at once in an emergency,
but also they will form a nucleus around which a really effective training corps for the general
student body can be built at any time when the necessity arises. If this work develops as it
should, and comes to form an integral part of university life, we shall have profited by one
of the lessons of the Great War, and with similar courses installed in all our great educational
centers, America will be ready, as she was not in 1917.

CHAPTER XIV

THE ALUMNI OF THE UNIVERSITY

Just at present Michigan probably has the largest body of alumni of any university in the country.
The total number of graduates in January, 1920, was 34,817, of whom 28,901 were living, while
the total of graduates and former students was 60,463. Of this number 11,420 were known to
be deceased. The number of addresses on the University lists at that time was 43,783. There
are several reasons for this large alumni body. In the first place few universities have many
living graduates of the classes which graduated before 1850; Michigan's oldest graduates at
present are George W. Carter, '53m, of Boulder, Colorado, and John E. Clark, '56, Professor
Emeritus of Mathematics at Yale. After her first few years Michigan had as many students enrolled
as most of the other institutions of that time, while the extraordinary growth of the Medical
and Law Schools in the period just after the Civil War probably gave her the largest number
of students in any university.

This, with the great increase which has come to all universities and particularly the state
institutions within the last twenty years or so, has given Michigan an unusually large body
of alumni. There are, however, a number of universities, notably Columbia, California, and
Chicago, which have had a very large enrolment of late years, and it is not unlikely that within
a few years their alumni catalogues will contain more names than Michigan's. It may be remarked
in connection with the relatively large proportion of those who have not received degrees,
about 42 percent of the total, that this number has been increased by war-time conditions,
and that judging from former records it is about ten percent higher than in more normal times.

Michigan has always taken an especial pride in the fact that, although a state university,
her student body has been recruited almost as much from the rest of the country as from Michigan;
while there has always been a not inconsiderable proportion of students from foreign countries.
This national enrolment has had a broadening and stimulating effect upon the student body and
has given the University a powerful influence throughout the country. Her graduates are to
be found in every state in the Union, though they are probably proportionately stronger in
the states west of the Mississippi, whose development came just in time to attract the enterprising
and vigorous youth who had his future to make and gladly seized the opportunity to grow up
with the new country. Michigan, with her low tuition charges, even for non-residents, and her
equally moderate cost of living, has been also pre-eminently a college for students of limited
means. Thus, while there are many men of wealth among her alumni, they are almost all men who
have made their own way, and have a position in their communities corresponding to their energy
and proved ability.

For some years the attendance from Michigan, though it is somewhat greater now, has averaged
55 percent. This is unusually significant when the great extent of the State is considered,
particularly since most of the students from the Northern Peninsula usually pass through three
other states to reach Ann Arbor. Not less worthy of note is the fact that only about 39 percent
of the graduates of the University live within the State, proof positive that Michigan, in
sending her students abroad, is performing a great service for the country. The percentages
of alumni in other states is also not without interest, for while the neighboring states of
Illinois and Ohio claim about 8 percent and Indiana 3.7 percent, New York has 6 percent of
Michigan's graduates, while Pennsylvania has 3.5 percent, and California 3.2 percent. About
2.5 percent of Michigan's former students, or 1,093, live in foreign countries. Of these 318
are in Canada, 126 in China, 62 in Great Britain, 61 in South America, 51 in Africa, and 46
in Japan. Of the United States dependencies, 66 are in Porto Rico, 54 in the Philippines, and
17 in Alaska. These figures might easily be increased were the addresses of all alumni found,
as there are, no doubt, a large number of "unknowns" in foreign countries. Of the total number
of graduates and foreign students for whom the University has addresses, 36,492 are men and
7,291 are women.

This great body of alumni is in itself a powerful asset for the University; but the active
interest and spirit of co-operation of the individual alumnus ordinarily needs a certain stimulus.
This is supplied through the organization of the graduates into a general Alumni Association,
as well as into local associations in most of the larger cities, and also through the organization
of the various classes. This general scheme is followed in almost every American university,
and forms one of the most significant of present-day developments. For the most part it is
a comparatively recent evolution. Though the graduates of the earlier American colleges had
a certain influence on the policies and growth of their institutions, it is only within the
last twenty-five years that these associations have become a factor of recognized importance
in every university. In fact this development is so recent that its significance is not sufficiently
realized, least of all perhaps by the alumni themselves; though the college president is apt
to be very alive to the importance of the alumni in university affairs.

The desire to perpetuate college friendships and to revive memories of college days was undoubtedly
the underlying motive which first brought the former students together in these organizations;
and not a few associations have progressed no farther in their activities. This is as true
among Michigan alumni clubs as elsewhere. But as university officers came to recognize other
possibilities in these associations, efforts were made to secure their co-operation in many
matters and especially financial assistance, in the establishment of funds for various purposes,
the erection of new buildings and providing for certain types of equipment which might not
properly come from the ordinary channels of college and university income. The Michigan Union,
Hill Auditorium, the women's dormitories, and the Clements Library of Americana perhaps best
illustrate this type of alumni support.

While in most cases the impetus toward this active co-operation and support on the part of
the alumni came from the institution, in recent years the alumni have tended more and more
to organize, not as an adjunct of the university administration, but as a body designed to
formulate independent alumni opinion, and to make intelligent graduate sentiment really effective
for the good of the institution. With this new phase of alumni activity came new elements--particularly
the alumni secretary, maintained by the graduate body, the alumni journal, and the alumni council.

This organization of college graduates is distinctly an American institution. There is little
to correspond in Continental universities, where they do not even have a real equivalent to
our word "alumni." In Great Britain, the graduates of the larger institutions have some voice
in the policies of their universities and, in the case of the Scottish universities, they elect
representatives on the governing body, as well as the chancellor and a representative in Parliament.
But the lists of alumni are kept up only for what are practically political purposes, and such
developments as local alumni clubs, or class reunions, are unknown; while there is ordinarily
small effort made to secure financial support.

Alumni co-operation has progressed so rapidly within the last quarter-century,--the period
covering the life of the Association at Michigan under its present form,--that we are apt to
forget how recent is this movement in American universities. To glance through the average
college or university history one would imagine these associations sprang full-armed, with
no preliminary throes of organization. Suddenly we find the alumni asserting their desires
in some important matter and thenceforth their voice has a recognized place in university councils.
It is quite obvious that the significance of this movement among college graduates was not
recognized for a long time. Everywhere the graduates were slow in finding themselves; and it
is safe to say that an efficient alumni sentiment was almost unknown until within the last
fifty years. But the seeds had been sown. Though Yale began her remarkable organization by
classes as far back as 1792, and others may have followed her example, records of any further
efforts in this direction are difficult to find until many years later.

The first attempt at a general alumni organization seems to have been a meeting of the alumni
at Williams College at Commencement time, in 1821, to organize a Society of Alumni. The purpose
of the proposed association was set forth in the following words:

     The meeting is notified at the request of a number of gentlemen,
     educated at this institution, who are desirous that the true state
     of the college be known to the alumni, and that the influence and
     patronage of those it has educated may be united for its support,
     protection, and improvement.

This does not seem an unsatisfactory definition of the fundamental object of an alumni body
of the present day. Seventeen years later a Society of Alumni was organized at the University
of Virginia, where, with perhaps a characteristic Southern emphasis on the social side of human
relationships, the committee was instructed,--

     to invite the alumni to form a permanent society, to offer to
     graduates an inducement to revisit the seat of their youthful
     studies and to give new life to disinterested friendships found in
     student days.

Other universities soon followed with similar organizations. Harvard's Alumni Association was
established in 1840; Bowdoin and Amhert came at about the same time, while the first alumni
association at Columbia was founded in 1854. In the West an alumni association was started
at Miami as early as 1832. The first years of these organizations were apparently a period
of struggle, but the spirit that they represented grew, and eventually they made alumni influence
everywhere effective to a greater or less degree, with the end not yet.

At Michigan, alumni organization has had a history similar to that in many other institutions.
The University published a list of the first four classes as far back as 1848, but the alumni
did not become a united body until 1860, fifteen years after the first class was graduated.
This first association was characterized as "somewhat informal in its nature," but the usual
statement of the object was forthcoming. According to the preamble of the constitution these
were,--

     the improvement of its members, the perpetuation of pleasant
     associations, the promotion of the interests of the University, and
     through that of the interests of higher education in general.

This Association was superseded in June, 1875, by an incorporated organization, the "Society
of the Alumni of the University of Michigan," in which, notwithstanding its general name, membership
was restricted to graduates of the collegiate department. A similar association of the Law
School was formed in 1871 and before many years all the departments had similar bodies. But
the interest taken was more or less perfunctory, and in 1897 a consolidation of all the departmental
organizations was effected, resulting in the present Alumni Association of the University of
Michigan, with ex-Regent Levi L. Barbour, '63, '65l, as its first President.

He was succeeded in June, 1899, by William E. Quinby, '58, of Detroit, who was followed in
turn the next year by Regent W.J. Cocker, '69. Judge Victor H. Lane, '74e, '78l, Fletcher Professor
of Law, was elected President in 1901, and so effectively has he served the interests of the
alumni that he has been continued in that office for the past twenty years.

Two important steps were taken by the new Association immediately upon its consolidation in
1897. The first was the appointment of a General Secretary to devote his whole time to furthering
the interests of the alumni organization. Ralph H. McAllister, a former member of the law class
of '89, was first elected to this position, but was succeeded in January, 1898, by James H.
Prentiss, '96, who was followed three years later by Shirley W. Smith, '97, at present Secretary
of the University. The present Alumni Secretary, Wilfred B. Shaw, '04, was appointed in October,
1904. The purchase of the graduate journal, The Michigan Alumnus, established in 1894 by Alvick
A. Pearson, '94, was another significant step. The Alumnus is one of the oldest graduate publications
in the country, with the Yale Alumni Weekly, established in 1891, and the Harvard Graduates'
Magazine, a quarterly, which appeared a year later, its only predecessors. Both of these journals
are published by private corporations, as was the Alumnus at first. In thus creating an officer
whose sole responsibility was to the alumni body and in maintaining an official alumni publication,
Michigan became a pioneer among Western universities, and was only preceded in the East by
Pennsylvania, whose alumni organization had established her Alumni Register and appointed an
alumni secretary in 1895.

The plan of organization of the Alumni Association at Michigan is very simple. The entire responsibility
for the affairs of the Association rests with a board of seven directors (originally but five),
who elect the officers of the Association from among their own number. Two directors are ordinarily
elected every year at the annual alumni meeting, held during the Commencement season, at which
any alumnus is entitled to a vote. The income of the Association, except for a grant of $600
a year from the University for advertising, arises entirely from the Alumnus, which at present
has a list of over 7,000 subscribers, who are considered as constituting the official membership
of the Association. This membership is in two forms, annual members and some 1,500 life members,
whose thirty-five dollar fees have resulted in an endowment fund at present amounting to over
$38,000, the income from which is used for current expenses.

Since its establishment the Alumnus has grown steadily in influence, and may now be regarded,
in some measure at least, as the official University publication. Limited as it is by the necessity
of pleasing a constituency widely varied in age and interests, it nevertheless makes it possible
for a large proportion of Michigan's graduates to maintain an effective and intelligent interest
in the University.

But the work of the Association and its officers has not stopped with the Alumnus. The local
alumni bodies and the class organizations form important links between the graduate and his
alma mater, and the sentimental ties, as well as the altruistic spirit engendered by these
associations have a vital significance for the individual graduate and for the University.
Practically every class that leaves the University is organized for the purpose of perpetuating
its college associations and many of the classes, particularly the earlier ones, have published
extensive class-books and directories. Every effort is made to return to the University for
reunions at stated periods, especially on the twenty-five and fifty year anniversaries. For
some years also many classes have followed a plan which brings four classes that were in college
together back for a reunion at the same time. The value of these annual home-comings has always
been emphasized by the Alumni Association, and so successful has it been in making the reunion
season interesting and stimulating that the graduates return in great numbers, sometimes in
a carnival spirit, and sometimes, as during the recent war years, with a sense of consecration
and devotion. Thus it was easy to pass from the gay fun of a burlesque commencement in Hill
Auditorium, which was the feature of one reunion season, to the commemoration of Dr. Angell's
life and services in 1916, and the great patriotic meetings of 1918 and 1919, which struck
the deepest chords of alumni sentiment.

No less effective in their own field are the many local alumni clubs in all the large cities
throughout the country. This movement toward forming local bodies began in Detroit in 1869,
and quickly spread, so that by 1876 the Michigan graduates as far west as San Francisco were
organized. While the primary reason for the existence of these clubs is the maintenance of
the social and sentimental ties inspired by the common love of their members for the University,
stimulated usually by an annual dinner and, in many cities, by weekly or monthly luncheons,
they have begun to discover means more positive and useful to justify their existence. From
a vague, if none the less real, feeling of loyalty to the University it is an easy step to
more aggressive measures. Thus we find the local bodies interesting themselves actively in
the University's affairs, organizing subscription campaigns for the Union, raising funds for
fellowships, and sending picked students to the University, interesting themselves in the ever-present
athletic problems, and welcoming the President and other representatives from the Faculties
who come to tell them what their alma mater is accomplishing. More than this, some associations
are perceiving broader implications in their organization as representative college men and
women,--for the alumnae, too, have very active clubs,--and are seeking opportunities for civic
and social service in their communities. At present Michigan has nearly one hundred of these
local organizations of alumni which may be considered active, while there are many more who
only need to have some task set before them to bring them into an active and aggressive existence.

It is only natural that, with this increasing participation of the alumni in university affairs,
there should be an effort to provide some means for the effectual expression of their collective
opinion. Perhaps the earliest and most striking example of this movement was the provision
in 1865 for the election of Harvard's Board of Overseers "by such persons as have received
the degree of B.A. or M.A., or any honorary degree," from Harvard College. This effort, which
came only after a long struggle, was duplicated in Princeton, Dartmouth, later Cornell, and
many other institutions. Even some of the state universities, whose regents are either elected
by the people, as at Michigan, or appointed by the governor, as in other states, have made
provision for direct alumni representation on their governing boards. Though this is not true
at Michigan it is significant that of the eight members of the Board of Regents, six, Walter
H. Sawyer, '84h, Hillsdale; Victor M. Gore, '82l, Benton Harbor; Junius E. Beal, '82, Ann Arbor;
Frank B. Leland, '82, '84l, Detroit; William L. Clements, '82, Bay City, and James O. Murfin,
'95, 96l, Detroit, hold degrees from the University and this proportion has held true for many
years. The other two members of the present Board are Benjamin S. Hanchett, Grand Rapids, and
L.L. Hubbard, Harvard, '72, Houghton. Shirley W. Smith, '97, also is Secretary of the University.

Lacking the stimulus of direct representation in the governing body, the alumni of the state
universities have directed their efforts toward strengthening the general alumni organization
as the best available means of expressing the sentiment of an increasingly important portion
of the university body. To further this desire alumni councils and other bodies with advisory
powers have been established, though usually their status has been uncertain and their powers
negligible, except as they voice a body of opinion which the university cannot afford to overlook.
Thus the Michigan Alumni Advisory Council, established some years ago, composed of representatives
from the local alumni bodies, has been for various reasons far from an effective body, though
it contains the germ of a force which may become active whenever a proper occasion may arise.
More competent, because less unwieldy, is the Executive Committee composed of five members
of the Council and two chosen at large. This body, though it has only met semi-occasionally,
has initiated several movements which have had a real influence on the relations between the
University and the graduates. This has been particularly true in matters relating to alumni
support for the Union, and the problems arising in connection with its administration.

In its earlier years the Alumni Association also undertook to keep up the alumni catalogue
and maintained for some time a card index of the alumni. This task, however, eventually outgrew
the resources of the Association, and in 1910 the alumni catalogue was transferred to addressograph
plates by a special appropriation, and its maintenance was made a part of the regular administrative
work of the University, with a separate officer, closely associated with the Alumni Association,
appointed to maintain the lists and edit the catalogues. The labor involved in keeping this
list of over 40,000 names even approximately up to date may be judged from the fact that the
catalogue office now includes four assistants as well as the Director, Mr. H.L. Sensemann,
'11, of the Department of Rhetoric.

For some years the practice was continued of including in the annual calendar an "Alumnorum
catalogus," which began in 1848 with the names of the fifty-six graduates of the first four
classes. The list eventually became too long, however, and in 1864 the first General Catalogue
was issued as a forty-page pamphlet which included 999 names. Four subsequent editions have
appeared, in 1871, 1891, 1901 and 1911, in addition to a privately published volume issued
in 1880. The slender pamphlet of 1864 became, in 1911, a volume of 1,096 pages which recorded
43,666 names, while the catalogue of 1921 will be even more impressive.

Though the interest and enthusiasm of the graduates is expressed in many less spectacular ways,
the amount of alumni gifts is the most available standard by which the effectiveness of this
support can be shown. Judged by this rough and ready approximation for a force which is in
reality intangible and based on something finer and more spiritual than material gifts, particularly
since it represents obviously only the sentiment of the few rather than that of the thousands
who would do likewise if they were able, it shows nevertheless how responsively the University's
alumni regard her call for their support. They have given their alma mater funds and property
whose estimated value may be conservatively placed at from $4,000,000 to $5,000,000. This includes
many gifts of small sums for loan funds, fellowships, and investigations in special fields,
as well as the income from these funds up to the present time. Some of these gifts, too, are
of such a character that no definite value can be placed upon them.

The total amount of such special funds in the hands of the University Treasurer, largely arising
from alumni gifts, is $843,815.40. It should also be borne in mind that this does not include
the many gifts which do not come from graduates of the University, such as the Newberry Hall
of Residence, the late Charles L. Freer's numerous gifts, including a fund of $50,000 for the
study of Oriental art, the Lewis Art collection, the Stearns Musical Collections, Waterman
Gymnasium and Ferry Field, or such buildings as Newberry Hall, now used by the Y.W.C.A., and
Lane Hall, for the University Y.M.C.A.

Two of the larger gifts to the University have come through collective effort on the part of
the alumni. The Michigan Union, made possible through the $1,200,000 raised by students and
alumni, has been mentioned in another chapter. Alumni Memorial Hall, which stands just across
the street, is also largely the result of comparatively small gifts from hundreds of graduates.
It is an imposing building of classical outlines, designed as a memorial of the men who served
in the Civil and Spanish-American Wars. It is intended to be at once an art gallery and the
headquarters of the Alumni Association, which has a spacious reception room on the first floor
and commodious offices in the basement, where the University Club also has a large and well-furnished
room. The building was completed in 1910 at a cost of $195,000, of which $145,000 was contributed
by the alumni, and was formally opened with an exhibition of Oriental art and the work of modern
American painters under the charge of the late Charles M. Freer of Detroit, who loaned many
of the pictures shown.

Other gifts arising from general alumni effort are the Williams Professorship fund and the
Alumnae Hall of Residence for women, given to the University by the alumnae; while Faculty,
alumni, and student efforts have been responsible for several paintings, notably the Chase
portrait of Dr. Angell, the portrait of Dr. V.C. Vaughan by Gari Melchers, and Ralph Clarkson's
recent picture of President Hutchins, which is to hang with Dr. Angell's portrait in the Union.

The greater portion of alumni gifts, however, have come from individual graduates. These include
such monumental benefactions as the Hill Auditorium, for which a bequest of $200,000 was left
by the late Regent Arthur Hill, '65e, of Saginaw; the Martha Cook Building which was completed
at a cost of about $500,000 by the Cook family of Hillsdale, the Betsy Barbour Dormitory, costing
some $100,000 given by ex-Regent Levi L. Barbour, '63, '65l, of Detroit, and the great library
of American history, with its special building, given by Regent William L. Clements, '82e,
of Bay City. This library, which is reported to have cost $400,000, and has been judged by
experts to be worth much more than that now, and the $200,000 building to come, represent a
princely gift. Ex-Regent Barbour also gave, in 1917, a fund of $100,000 to be used for providing
scholarships for Oriental women in the University. To this he added two years later property
in Detroit from which the income alone, during the term of the ninety-nine years' lease now
in effect upon it, will amount to nearly $2,500,000. The sum of $100,000 was also left by the
late Professor Richard Hudson, '71, to establish a professorship in history, at present held
by Professor Arthur Lyon Cross, Harvard, '95. Professor Hudson also left his library to the
University, which has benefited by many similar gifts from alumni, notably the historical books
given by Clarence M. Burton, '73, the library of Thomas S. Jerome, '84, of Capri, Italy, and
the musical library presented by Frederick and Frederick K. Stearns, '73-'76, as well as the
libraries of several members of the Faculties given the University upon their death. These
include the library in Romance Literature of Professor Edward L. Walter, '68, the philosophical
library of Professor George S. Morris, '81 (hon.), the Germanic Library of Professor George
A. Hench, the geological library of Professor Israel C. Russell, and the classical library
of Professor Elisha Jones, '59.

Too numerous to mention in detail are the many special gifts for research, such as the continual
funds for the work of the University Museum supplied by Bryant Walker, '76, of Detroit, or
the large telescope and other gifts to the Department of Astronomy by Robert P. Lamont, '91e,
of Chicago, or for fellowships, the purchase of books, educational material, and scientific
apparatus, as well as the numerous funds left for various designated purposes and administered
by the University.

The various memorials left by the graduating classes should not be forgotten in this connection,
though some of them, owing to poor judgment, have been ill-adapted to the purposes they were
intended to serve and have more or less mysteriously disappeared. Perhaps the best known example
was the ill-fated statue of Ben Franklin, long a Campus landmark, left by the class of '70.
Early in his academic course he became the victim of the paint-buckets of successive classes,
and eventually his outlines became so blurred that he was perforce retired. Aside from the
tree-planting efforts of '58, the first class memorial was the reproduction of the Laocoön
group, now in Alumni Memorial Hall, presented by '59. Reproductions of painting and sculpture
were for many years the favored forms of class memorials, of which the most unique and valuable
was the complete set of casts from the arch of Trajan at Beneventum, presented by '96. In recent
years many classes have left portraits of members of the various Faculties, while others have
left loan funds which have been of inestimable service to many worthy but impecunious students.

The University chimes, a peal of five bells, presented by James J. Hagerman, '61, Edward C.
Hegeler, and Andrew D. White, must not be forgotten. They are now in the tower of the Engineering
Shops, whence they were removed when the old Library was torn down.

Perhaps the most far-reaching in its effects was the fund left by 1916. This was accompanied
by a recommendation to the General Alumni Association that an alumni fund be created of which
their contribution was to be the nucleus. The Association took measures to act upon this suggestion,
but owing to the war and the preoccupation of the alumni in the Union, its establishment was
delayed for several years. The plan for this fund, as finally approved in 1920, provides for
an incorporated board of nine directors, the first members of which were appointed by the Board
of Directors of the Alumni Association. This project, while still in its formative stage, has
great possibilities for the future of the University, judged by the success of similar funds
in other institutions. This is particularly true at Yale, where the alumni fund amounts to
nearly $2,000,000 in addition to some $1,500,000 given for various purposes.

There are obvious advantages in thus organizing the stream of alumni gifts now beginning to
flow so strongly toward the University. It not only provides a trustworthy and conservative
body to which any gift may be entrusted, whether in the form of a class fund, individual contribution,
or bequest, but it also ensures that all such gifts which are unrestricted, shall be utilized
wherever, in the judgment of the Directors, the University's need is greatest. The existence
of such a fluid source of income properly administered can be made of incalculable benefit,
particularly in the numerous critical occasions, when the regular income is entirely unequal
to the emergency, though it is not proposed to relieve the State from providing for the normal
needs of the University, but to meet the special demands which are continually arising in such
an institution. Finally, the existence and administration of such a fund will tend to tie the
alumni to the University as could no other agency, particularly if, as elsewhere, a good part
of the income arises from small annual subscriptions, collected by a class officer, who remits
the total as a class contribution.

Thus, though the alumni of the University have no direct voice in the administration, as have
the graduates in many other institutions, they have established several agencies through which
their natural desire to have a recognized share in University affairs may be expressed. These
include first of all the General Alumni Association, with its many subsidiary class and local
organizations, which maintains the Alumnus as its official organ, and with at least the outlines
of an advisory body in the Alumni Council with its Executive Committee. The alumni also have
further means of associating themselves with the affairs of the University through the power
of appointment of a majority of the members of the Board of Governors of the Michigan Union
and the Directors of the Alumni Fund, which rests with the Directors of the Alumni Association;
while the four alumni members of the Board of Directors of the Union are likewise elected by
the alumni at large at the annual meeting in June.

With so large and widely distributed a body of graduates it is to be expected that many have
become prominent in the life of the country, and in their professions. An analysis of the names
of Michigan men and women in "Who's Who" for 1912-13 showed that, exclusive of the holders
of honorary degrees and Summer School students, the names of 604 former students appeared,
of whom 498 were graduates and 106 were non-graduates. This is approximately 3.2 percent of
the total names given in that edition, and was 6 percent of the college graduates listed. There
is no reason to suppose that the same percentages at least would not apply in a similar survey
of the latest edition.

While it is, for obvious reasons, impossible to give the names of all graduates who have achieved
a certain measure of distinction, a few who have attained special prominence in their special
fields may be mentioned.

It is most natural that Michigan alumni should figure prominently in the educational world.
Thus, among college presidents, in addition to President Hutchins, '71, Michigan can claim
Charles Kendall Adams, '61, President of Cornell University from 1885 to 1892, and later, 1892
to 1901, of Wisconsin; Mark Harrington, '68, University of Washington; Austin Scott, A.M.,
'70, Rutgers; Alice Freeman Palmer, '76, Wellesley, 1881-87; Henry Wade Rogers, '74, formerly
President of Northwestern, and later Dean of the Yale Law School; Elmer Ellsworth Brown, '89,
New York University; and Stratton D. Brooks, '96, Oklahoma.

Aside from the many distinguished graduates on her own Faculty rolls, Michigan has also for
many years been well represented in the faculties of all the leading American universities.
At Harvard these include Edwin L. Mark, '71, Professor of Anatomy; Paul Hanus, '78, Head of
the Department of Education; and Edwin F. Gay, '90, until recently Dean of the School of Business
Administration; at Yale, John E. Clark, '56, for many years Professor of Mathematics, and the
late Professor Willard T. Barbour, '05, of the Law School; at Columbia, the late Calvin Thomas,
'74, Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures; Henry R. Seager, '90, Professor of Economics;
at Dartmouth, Gabriel Campbell, '65, long Professor of Philosophy; and Frank H. Dixon, '92,
Professor of Economics, later occupying the same chair at Princeton; where are also Duane Reed
Stuart, '96, Professor of Greek, Christian Gauss, '98, Professor of Romance Languages, and
Edward S. Corwin, '00, who now holds the chair of Political Science, formerly occupied by President
Wilson. At Tufts, Amos Dolbear, '67e, was for many years Professor of Physics. The Johns Hopkins
faculty roll shows the names of Henry M. Hurd, '63, '66m, Professor of Psychiatry; John H.
Abel, '83m, Professor of Pharmacology; Franklin P. Mall, '83m, Professor of Anatomy, and Herbert
S. Jennings, '93, Professor of Biology. At Cornell, Jeremiah W. Jenks, '78, was for many years
Professor of Social Science and Economics and now holds a research professorship in New York
University. L.M. Dennis, '85, is also Professor of Inorganic Chemistry at Cornell.

As is natural, many Michigan teachers are to be found in practically all the Western universities,
although only a few can be mentioned. Thus at Chicago are Andrew C. McLaughlin, '82, Professor
of American History, James R. Angell, '90, who was Professor of Psychology and Dean of the
Graduate School until he became President of the Carnegie Foundation in 1920; and at Wisconsin,
J.B. Johnson, '78, who was, until his death in 1902, Dean of the Engineering College, and George
C. Comstock, '77, Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Observatory; while at Minnesota
Edward VanDyke Robinson, '90, is Professor of Economics, and John B. Johnston, '93, Professor
of Comparative Neurology and Dean of the College, and for a short period the late John R. Allen,
'92e, formerly at Michigan, was Dean of the Engineering Department. At Ohio State University
may be mentioned Stillman W. Robinson, '63, Professor of Mechanical Engineering until 1910,
George W. Knight, '78, Professor of American History, and Joseph V. Denney, '85, Professor
of English, and Dean of the College of Arts; and, at Nebraska, Herbert H. Vaughan, '03, Professor
of Modern Languages. One of the oldest of Michigan's educators is Professor William J. Beal,
'59, Professor of Botany at Michigan Agricultural College from 1871 to 1910.

On the Western coast, Alexander F. Lange, '85, Professor of German at the University of California,
and Dean of the Faculties, has also served as Acting-President; while other representatives
of Michigan are Charles M. Gayley, '78, Professor of English, Bernard Moses, '70, Professor
of History and Political Science, and Armin O. Leuschner, '88, Professor of Astronomy. At Stanford
are George Hempl, '79, Professor of Germanic Philology, Ephraim D. Adams, '87, Professor of
History, and Douglas Campbell, '82, Professor of Botany.

Among Michigan graduates in foreign universities may be mentioned the names of Stephen Langdon,
'98, Professor of Assyriology at Oxford, the late Alfred Senier, '74m, Professor of Chemistry
at the National University of Ireland at Galway, and Masakozu Toyama, '73-'76, Dean of the
College of Literature at Tokio until his death in 1900, and founder of the study of sociology
in Japan.

Though most of the men of attainment in science have continued in University positions, Robert
S. Woodward, 72e, President of the Carnegie Institution, Charles F. Brush, '69e, the inventor
of the arc light, Otto Klotz, '72e, Director of the Dominion of Canada Observatory at Ottawa,
William W. Campbell, '86e, Director of the Lick Observatory, and Heber D. Curtiss, '92, at
the same observatory, may be mentioned as exceptions. All but the last were graduates of the
Engineering Department, among whose graduates are also to be numbered A.A. Robinson, '69e,
the late President of the Santa Fé and Mexican Central railroads, Alfred Noble, '70e, until
his death the leading American engineer, Henry G. Prout, '71e, one time governor of the Equatorial
Provinces of Africa and later editor of the Railroad Gazette, Cornelius Donovan, '72e, the
builder of the great jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi, Joseph Ripley, '76, the designer
of the Panama Canal locks, and Howard Coffin, '03, automobile engineer, and chairman of the
war-time aviation board.

Aside from the graduates of the Medical School who have made distinguished records on other
medical faculties, the names of many prominent practitioners and medical writers might be mentioned,
including Edmund Andrews, '49, '52m, an organizer of the Medical School of Northwestern University,
and founder of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, Lewis S.F. Pilcher, '66m, the founder of The
Annals of Surgery, William J. Mayo, '83m, the distinguished surgeon of Rochester, Minnesota,
and Woods Hutchinson, '84m, of New York, a popular writer on medical subjects. Among the Michigan
graduates who have made a record in the legal profession are to be found an unusual number
of distinguished occupants of the bench, including William L. Day, '70, of the United States
Supreme Court, who was Secretary of State under McKinley and Chairman of the Board of Peace
Commissioners after the war with Spain, William B. Gilbert, '72l, Judge of the Ninth U.S. Circuit
at Portland, Oregon, Loyal E. Knappen, '73, and Arthur Dennison, '83l, of the Sixth Circuit,
and Francis E. Baker, '82l, of the Seventh Circuit. There are twelve other Michigan graduates
in the Federal District judiciary in addition to John E. Carland, l'74-'75, Circuit Judge assigned
to the Court of Commerce at Washington, and Fenton W. Booth, '92l, of the U.S. Court of Claims.
Among legal authors are Melvin M. Bigelow, '66, '68l, Dean of the Boston University Law School,
and recognized authority on jurisprudence and legal history, William W. Cook, '80, '82l, who
not only has been a great benefactor to the University, but is perhaps the best-known author
on private corporations, as well as counsel for several of the leading telegraph and cable
companies.

Among the graduates of the University in high government positions have been Don M. Dickinson,
'67, Postmaster-General under Cleveland, and J. Sterling Morton, '54, Secretary of Agriculture
during Cleveland's second term, when Edwin F. Uhl, '62, was also acting Secretary of State
and later Ambassador to Germany. Other diplomatic posts have been filled by Thomas W. Palmer,
'49, Minister to Spain under Harrison, William E. Quinby, '58, Minister to Holland under Cleveland,
Thomas J. O'Brien, '65l, Minister to Denmark and later Ambassador to Japan and Italy under
Roosevelt and Taft, and William Graves Sharp, '81l, Ambassador to France under Wilson. Michigan
has for many years had a large representation in both Houses of Congress; for example in 1913
there were eight former students of the University in the Senate, of whom five held degrees,
and twenty-two in the House. Senator Cushman K. Davis, '57, who died in 1900, was among the
conspicuous leaders of his time, while of the present generation are Porter J. McCumber, '80l,
of North Dakota, Gilbert Hitchcock, 81l, of Nebraska, and Charles S. Thomas, '71l, and John
F. Shafroth, '75, of Colorado.

In various forms of public service as well as in the business world Michigan's graduates occupy
prominent places: William C. Braisted, '83, is Surgeon-General of the Navy, Laurence Maxwell,
'74, succeeded Charles H. Aldrich, '75, as Solicitor-General of the State Department in 1893,
Major-General John Biddle, who left the University for West Point in 1877, served as chief
of staff, and later head of the American forces in England during the world war, Charles S.
Burch, '75, is now Bishop of the New York Diocese, Dean C. Worcester, '89, was Secretary of
the Interior on the Philippine Commission, Charles B. Warren, '91, has been counsel for this
country before the Hague Tribunal, Royal S. Copeland, '84h, is Health Commissioner for New
York City, and Earl D. Babst, '93, is President of the American Sugar Refining Company. Among
architects Michigan numbers Irving K. Pond, '79, the designer of the Union, and President of
the American Institute of Architects, 1910-11, and among landscape architects, O.C. Simonds,
'78e, of Chicago.

Many alumni have turned to literature, and the names of not a few, particularly among the more
recent graduates, are continuously appearing in different magazines and reviews. Particularly
well known are Stewart Edward White, '95, Katharine Holland Brown, '98, Franklin P. Adams,
'03, and Harry A. Franck, '03, no less well known as an unconventional traveler. Michigan has
also left her mark in journalism, from Liberty E. Holden, '58, editor and publisher of the
Cleveland Plain Dealer and William E. Quinby, of the same class, of the old Detroit Free Press,
to Edward S. Beck, '93, managing editor of the Chicago Tribune, S. Beach Conger, '00, who was
in charge of the European service of the Associated Press during the Great War, Paul Scott
Mowrer, a one-time member of the class of '09, who was the Paris representative of the Chicago
Daily News, and Karl Harriman, '98, editor of the Ladies Home Journal and author of "Ann Arbor
Tales," (1902).

As with the men so with the women graduates of the University. Their ranks include, in addition
to the President of Wellesley, many important positions in the university world, including
Angie Chapin, '75, Professor of Greek, and the late Katharine Coman, '80, Professor of History
and Economics, at Wellesley, and Gertrude Buck, '94, Professor of English at Vassar. Among
alumnae particularly prominent in science are Mrs. Mary Hegeler Carus, '90e, the first woman
to graduate from the Engineering College, who is president of a large manufacturing company
and secretary of the Open Court Publishing Company, and the late Marion S. Parker, '95e, who
as a structural engineer has had a large share in the designing of some of the monumental buildings
of New York. Annie S. Peck, '78, is also well known as a traveler and mountain climber.

In the medical profession there have been many alumnae of prominence, notably Dr. Alice Hamilton,
'93m, who has recently become Assistant Professor of Industrial Medicine in the Harvard Medical
School, and Dr. Harriet Alexander, who has become an authority on diseases of the nervous system.
Two Chinese graduates of the medical school, Dr. Ida Kahn, '96m, and Dr. Mary Stone, '96m,
have done a great work for their fellow countrymen in their large hospital at Kiu Kiang.

TABLE I

THE INCOME OF THE UNIVERSITY, BY TEN-YEAR PERIODS

Showing Principal Sources
                                                                  Special Appro-
  Year             Total    Income from    Mill-Tax     Tuition    priations and
                 Income[4]  State Lands                Fees, etc.  Savings for
                                                                   Buildings[5]

  1849-'50      $16,286.22  $15,088.23                  $1,006.87
  1859-'60       39,735.77   28,409.76                   5,705.43
  1869-'70       84,966.08   30,000.00                  20,039.04   $11,250.00
  1880-'81[6]   163,034.40   38,531.59    $31,500.00    63,745.13    15,000.00
  1889-'90      360,308.16   38,651.00     47,272.50   100,814.92   147,589.08
  1899-'00      555,623.90   38,228.82    281,583.43   185,350.31    12,000.00
  1909-'10    1,573,540.14   38,511.63    585,258.75   327,169.53   334,043.46
  1919-'20    3,802,164.27   38,428.89  1,687,500.00   682,445.16   659,250.00

[Footnote 4: These totals include, in addition to the items shown, balances on hand, temporary
loans, sales of material, and, in later years, hospital fees.]

[Footnote 5: This includes also appropriations for deficits, as well as savings from the income
from the mill-tax over a period of years, drawn out for the erection of buildings.]

[Footnote 6: The Treasurer's Report for 1879-'80 covered fifteen months, and therefore cannot
properly be used for comparison.]

TABLE II

THE FACULTY AND STUDENTS

By Ten-Year Periods

  Year    # of    # of    ---------------------------Number of Students-------------------------------
        Faculty   Grad-   Lit-   Medi-  Law  Phar-  Homeo-  Den-  Engineer-  Grad-    Summer   Total
        exclus-   uates   erary  cine        macy   pathic  tis-  ing and    uate[7]  Session
         ive of                                             try   Architec-
        Assist-                                                     ture
          ants            ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

  1850      7      12        72                                                                   72
  1860     28     109       267   167    92                                                      526
  1870     32     339       426   338   308   36[8]                             4              1,112
  1880     53     415       435   350   395   81      70     83                13              1,427
  1890     86     554       929   372   533   83      72    103                78              2,153
  1900    166     766     1,254   500   837   76      70    247       280      89       263    3,441
  1910    318   1,029     1,841   318   833   97      77    216     1,334     168     1,224    5,383
  1920    494   1,142[9]  5,007   394   382   99      42    350     2,038     340     1,961    9,401[10]

[Footnote 7: The figures given for the graduate students, except in 1920, include only those
enrolled in the Literary College. The figures for 1890 include 33 studying in absentia.]

[Footnote 8: Included in the Literary Department until 1876.]

[Footnote 9: The proportion of graduates in 1920 is relatively lower owing to the large enrolment
of former soldiers in the lower classes.]

[Footnote 10: This total includes 222 nurses in the two training schools.