In his remarkable apology for lynching, Bishop Haygood, of Georgia, says: "No race, not the
most savage, tolerates the rape of woman, but it may be said without reflection upon any other
people that the Southern people are now and always have been most sensitive concerning the
honor of their women--their mothers, wives, sisters and daughters." It is not the purpose of
this defense to say one word against the white women of the South. Such need not be said, but
it is their misfortune that the chivalrous white men of that section, in order to escape the
deserved execration of the civilized world, should shield themselves by their cowardly and
infamously false excuse, and call into question that very honor about which their distinguished
priestly apologist claims they are most sensitive. To justify their own barbarism they assume
a chivalry which they do not possess. True chivalry respects all womanhood, and no one who
reads the record, as it is written in the faces of the million mulattoes in the South, will
for a minute conceive that the southern white man had a very chivalrous regard for the honor
due the women of his own race or respect for the womanhood which circumstances placed in his
power. That chivalry which is "most sensitive concerning the honor of women" can hope for but
little respect from the civilized world, when it confines itself entirely to the women who
happen to be white. Virtue knows no color line, and the chivalry which depends upon complexion
of skin and texture of hair can command no honest respect.

When emancipation came to the Negroes, there arose in the northern part of the United States
an almost divine sentiment among the noblest, purest and best white women of the North, who
felt called to a mission to educate and Christianize the millions of southern exslaves. From
every nook and corner of the North, brave young white women answered that call and left their
cultured homes, their happy associations and their lives of ease, and with heroic determination
went to the South to carry light and truth to the benighted blacks. It was a heroism no less
than that which calls for volunteers for India, Africa and the Isles of the sea. To educate
their unfortunate charges; to teach them the Christian virtues and to inspire in them the moral
sentiments manifest in their own lives, these young women braved dangers whose record reads
more like fiction than fact. They became social outlaws in the South. The peculiar sensitiveness
of the southern white men for women, never shed its protecting influence about them. No friendly
word from their own race cheered them in their work; no hospitable doors gave them the companionship
like that from which they had come. No chivalrous white man doffed his hat in honor or respect.
They were "Nigger teachers"--unpardonable offenders in the social ethics of the South, and
were insulted, persecuted and ostracised, not by Negroes, but by the white manhood which boasts
of its chivalry toward women.

And yet these northern women worked on, year after year, unselfishly, with a heroism which
amounted almost to martyrdom. Threading their way through dense forests, working in schoolhouse,
in the cabin and in the church, thrown at all times and in all places among the unfortunate
and lowly Negroes, whom they had come to find and to serve, these northern women, thousands
and thousands of them, have spent more than a quarter of a century in giving to the colored
people their splendid lessons for home and heart and soul. Without protection, save that which
innocence gives to every good woman, they went about their work, fearing no assault and suffering
none. Their chivalrous protectors were hundreds of miles away in their northern homes, and
yet they never feared any "great dark-faced mobs," they dared night or day to "go beyond their
own roof trees." They never complained of assaults, and no mob was ever called into existence
to avenge crimes against them. Before the world adjudges the Negro a moral monster, a vicious
assailant of womanhood and a menace to the sacred precincts of home, the colored people ask
the consideration of the silent record of gratitude, respect, protection and devotion of the
millions of the race in the South, to the thousands of northern white women who have served
as teachers and missionaries since the war.

The Negro may not have known what chivalry was, but he knew enough to preserve inviolate the
womanhood of the South which was entrusted to his hands during the war. The finer sensibilities
of his soul may have been crushed out by years of slavery, but his heart was full of gratitude
to the white women of the North, who blessed his home and inspired his soul in all these years
of freedom. Faithful to his trust in both of these instances, he should now have the impartial
ear of the civilized world, when he dares to speak for himself as against the infamy wherewith
he stands charged.

It is his regret, that, in his own defense, he must disclose to the world that degree of dehumanizing
brutality which fixes upon America the blot of a national crime. Whatever faults and failings
other nations may have in their dealings with their own subjects or with other people, no other
civilized nation stands condemned before the world with a series of crimes so peculiarly national.
It becomes a painful duty of the Negro to reproduce a record which shows that a large portion
of the American people avow anarchy, condone murder and defy the contempt of civilization.
These pages are written in no spirit of vindictiveness, for all who give the subject consideration
must concede that far too serious is the condition of that civilized government in which the
spirit of unrestrained outlawry constantly increases in violence, and casts its blight over
a continually growing area of territory. We plead not for the colored people alone, but for
all victims of the terrible injustice which puts men and women to death without form of law.
During the year 1894, there were 132 persons executed in the United States by due form of law,
while in the same year, 197 persons were put to death by mobs who gave the victims no opportunity
to make a lawful defense. No comment need be made upon a condition of public sentiment responsible
for such alarming results.

The purpose of the pages which follow shall be to give the record which has been made, not
by colored men, but that which is the result of compilations made by white men, of reports
sent over the civilized world by white men in the South. Out of their own mouths shall the
murderers be condemned. For a number of years the Chicago Tribune, admittedly one of the leading
journals of America, has made a specialty of the compilation of statistics touching upon lynching.
The data compiled by that journal and published to the world January 1, 1894, up to the present
time has not been disputed. In order to be safe from the charge of exaggeration, the incidents
hereinafter reported have been confined to those vouched for by the Tribune.

2

LYNCH-LAW STATISTICS

From the record published in the Chicago Tribune, January 1, 1894, the following computation
of lynching statistics is made referring only to the colored victims of Lynch Law during the
year 1893:

ARSON

Sept. 15, Paul Hill, Carrollton, Ala.; Sept. 15, Paul Archer, Carrollton, Ala.; Sept. 15, William
Archer, Carrollton, Ala.; Sept. 15, Emma Fair, Carrollton, Ala.

SUSPECTED ROBBERY

Dec. 23, unknown negro, Fannin, Miss.

ASSAULT

Dec. 25, Calvin Thomas, near Brainbridge, Ga.

ATTEMPTED ASSAULT

Dec. 28, Tillman Green, Columbia, La.

INCENDIARISM

Jan. 26, Patrick Wells, Quincy, Fla.; Feb. 9, Frank Harrell, Dickery, Miss.; Feb. 9, William
Filder, Dickery, Miss.

ATTEMPTED RAPE

Feb. 21, Richard Mays, Springville, Mo.; Aug. 14, Dug Hazleton, Carrollton, Ga.; Sept. 1, Judge
McNeil, Cadiz, Ky.; Sept. 11, Frank Smith, Newton, Miss.; Sept. 16, William Jackson, Nevada,
Mo.; Sept. 19, Riley Gulley, Pine Apple, Ala.; Oct. 9, John Davis, Shorterville, Ala.; Nov.
8, Robert Kennedy, Spartansburg, S.C.

BURGLARY

Feb. 16, Richard Forman, Granada, Miss.

WIFE BEATING

Oct. 14, David Jackson, Covington, La.

ATTEMPTED MURDER

Sept. 21, Thomas Smith, Roanoke, Va.

ATTEMPTED ROBBERY

Dec. 12, four unknown negroes, near Selma, Ala.

RACE PREJUDICE

Jan. 30, Thomas Carr, Kosciusko, Miss.; Feb. 7, William Butler, Hickory Creek, Texas; Aug.
27, Charles Tart, Lyons Station, Miss.; Dec. 7, Robert Greenwood, Cross county, Ark.; July
14, Allen Butler, Lawrenceville, Ill.

THIEVES

Oct. 24, two unknown negroes, Knox Point, La.

ALLEGED BARN BURNING

Nov. 4, Edward Wagner, Lynchburg, Va.; Nov. 4, William Wagner, Lynchburg, Va.; Nov. 4, Samuel
Motlow, Lynchburg, Va.; Nov. 4, Eliza Motlow, Lynchburg, Va.

ALLEGED MURDER

Jan. 21, Robert Landry, St. James Parish, La.; Jan. 21, Chicken George, St. James Parish, La.;
Jan. 21, Richard Davis, St. James Parish, La.; Dec. 8, Benjamin Menter, Berlin, Ala.; Dec.
8, Robert Wilkins, Berlin, Ala.; Dec. 8, Joseph Gevhens, Berlin, Ala.

ALLEGED COMPLICITY IN MURDER

Sept. 16, Valsin Julian, Jefferson Parish, La.; Sept. 16, Basil Julian, Jefferson Parish, La.;
Sept. 16, Paul Julian, Jefferson Parish, La.; Sept. 16, John Willis, Jefferson Parish, La.

MURDER

June 29, Samuel Thorp, Savannah, Ga.; June 29, George S. Riechen, Waynesboro, Ga.; June 30,
Joseph Bird, Wilberton, I.T.; July 1, James Lamar, Darien, Ga.; July 28, Henry Miller, Dallas,
Texas; July 28, Ada Hiers, Walterboro, S.C.; July 28, Alexander Brown, Bastrop, Texas; July
30, W.G. Jamison, Quincy, Ill.; Sept. 1, John Ferguson, Lawrens, S.C.; Sept. 1, Oscar Johnston,
Berkeley, S.C.; Sept. 1, Henry Ewing, Berkeley, S.C.; Sept. 8, William Smith, Camden, Ark.;
Sept. 15, Staples Green, Livingston, Ala.; Sept. 29, Hiram Jacobs, Mount Vernon, Ga.; Sept.
29, Lucien Mannet, Mount Vernon, Ga.; Sept. 29, Hire Bevington, Mount Vernon, Ga.; Sept. 29,
Weldon Gordon, Mount Vernon, Ga.; Sept. 29, Parse Strickland, Mount Vernon, Ga.; Oct. 20, William
Dalton, Cartersville, Ga.; Oct. 27, M.B. Taylor, Wise Court House, Va.; Oct. 27, Isaac Williams,
Madison, Ga.; Nov. 10, Miller Davis, Center Point, Ark.; Nov. 14, John Johnston, Auburn, N.Y.

Sept. 27, Calvin Stewart, Langley, S.C.; Sept. 29, Henry Coleman, Denton, La.; Oct. 18, William
Richards, Summerfield, Ga.; Oct. 18, James Dickson, Summerfield, Ga.; Oct. 27, Edward Jenkins,
Clayton county, Ga.; Nov. 9, Henry Boggs, Fort White, Fla.; Nov. 14, three unknown negroes,
Lake City Junction, Fla.; Nov. 14, D.T. Nelson, Varney, Ark.; Nov. 29, Newton Jones, Baxley,
Ga.; Dec. 2, Lucius Holt, Concord, Ga.; Dec. 10, two unknown negroes, Richmond, Ala.; July
12, Henry Fleming, Columbus, Miss.; July 17, unknown negro, Briar Field, Ala.; July 18, Meredith
Lewis, Roseland, La. July 29, Edward Bill, Dresden, Tenn.; Aug. 1, Henry Reynolds, Montgomery,
Tenn.; Aug. 9, unknown negro, McCreery, Ark.; Aug. 12, unknown negro, Brantford, Fla.; Aug.
18, Charles Walton, Morganfield, Ky; Aug. 21, Charles Tait, near Memphis, Tenn.; Aug. 28, Leonard
Taylor, New Castle, Ky; Sept. 8, Benjamin Jackson, Quincy, Miss.; Sept. 14, John Williams,
Jackson, Tenn.

SELF-DEFENSE

July 30, unknown negro, Wingo, Ky.

POISONING WELLS

Aug. 18, two unknown negroes, Franklin Parish, La.

ALLEGED WELL POISONING

Sept. 15, Benjamin Jackson, Jackson, Miss.; Sept. 15, Mahala Jackson, Jackson, Miss.; Sept.
15, Louisa Carter, Jackson, Miss.; Sept. 15, W.A. Haley, Jackson, Miss.; Sept. 16, Rufus Bigley,
Jackson, Miss.

INSULTING WHITES

Feb. 18, John Hughes, Moberly, Mo.; June 2, Isaac Lincoln, Fort Madison, S.C.

MURDEROUS ASSAULT

April 20, Daniel Adams, Selina, Kan.

NO OFFENSE

July 21, Charles Martin, Shelby Co., Tenn.; July 30, William Steen, Paris, Miss.; Aug. 31,
unknown negro, Yarborough, Tex.; Sept. 30, unknown negro, Houston, Tex.; Dec. 28, Mack Segars,
Brantley, Ala.

ALLEGED RAPE

July 7, Charles T. Miller, Bardwell, Ky.; Aug. 10, Daniel Lewis, Waycross, Ga.; Aug. 10, James
Taylor, Waycross, Ga.; Aug. 10, John Chambers, Waycross, Ga.

ALLEGED STOCK POISONING

Dec. 16, Henry G. Givens, Nebro, Ky.

SUSPECTED MURDER

Dec. 23, Sloan Allen, West Mississippi.

LYNCHINGS BY STATES

Alabama, 25; Arkansas, 7; Florida, 7; Georgia, 24; Indian Territory, 1; Illinois, 3; Kansas,
2; Kentucky, 8; Louisiana, 18; Mississippi, 17; Missouri, 3; New York, 1; South Carolina, 15;
Tennessee, 10; Texas, 8; Virginia, 10.

RECORD FOR THE YEAR 1892

While it is intended that the record here presented shall include specially the lynchings of
1893, it will not be amiss to give the record for the year preceding. The facts contended for
will always appear manifest--that not one-third of the victims lynched were charged with rape,
and further that the charges made embraced a range of offenses from murders to misdemeanors.

In 1892 there were 241 persons lynched. The entire number is divided among the following states:

Alabama, 22; Arkansas, 25; California, 3; Florida, 11; Georgia, 17; Idaho, 8; Illinois, 1;
Kansas, 3; Kentucky, 9; Louisiana, 29; Maryland, 1; Mississippi, 16; Missouri, 6; Montana,
4; New York, 1; North Carolina, 5; North Dakota, 1; Ohio, 3; South Carolina, 5; Tennessee,
28; Texas, 15; Virginia, 7; West Virginia, 5; Wyoming, 9; Arizona Territory, 3; Oklahoma, 2.

Of this number 160 were of Negro descent. Four of them were lynched in New York, Ohio and Kansas;
the remainder were murdered in the South. Five of this number were females. The charges for
which they were lynched cover a wide range. They are as follows:

Rape, 46; murder, 58; rioting, 3; race prejudice, 6; no cause given, 4; incendiarism, 6; robbery,
6; assault and battery, 1; attempted rape, 11; suspected robbery, 4; larceny, 1; self-defense,
1; insulting women, 2; desperadoes, 6; fraud, 1; attempted murder, 2; no offense stated, boy
and girl, 2.

In the case of the boy and girl above referred to, their father, named Hastings, was accused
of the murder of a white man; his fourteen-year-old daughter and sixteen-year-old son were
hanged and their bodies filled with bullets, then the father was also lynched. This was in
November, 1892, at Jonesville, Louisiana.

3

LYNCHING IMBECILES

(An Arkansas Butchery)

The only excuse which capital punishment attempts to find is upon the theory that the criminal
is past the power of reformation and his life is a constant menace to the community. If, however,
he is mentally unbalanced, irresponsible for his acts, there can be no more inhuman act conceived
of than the wilful sacrifice of his life. So thoroughly is that principle grounded in the law,
that all civilized society surrounds human life with a safeguard, which prevents the execution
of a criminal who is insane, even if sane at the time of his criminal act. Should he become
insane after its commission the law steps in and protects him during the period of his insanity.
But Lynch Law has no such regard for human life. Assuming for itself an absolute supremacy
over the law of the land, it has time and again dyed its hands in the blood of men who were
imbeciles. Two or three noteworthy cases will suffice to show with what inhuman ferocity irresponsible
men have been put to death by this system of injustice.

An instance occurred during the year 1892 in Arkansas, a report of which is given in full in
the Arkansas Democrat, published at Little Rock, in that state, on the eleventh day of February
of that year. The paper mentioned is perhaps one of the leading weeklies in that state and
the account given in detail has every mark of a careful and conscientious investigation. The
victims of this tragedy were a colored man, named Hamp Biscoe, his wife and a thirteen-year-old
son. Hamp Biscoe, it appears, was a hard working, thrifty farmer, who lived near England, Arkansas,
upon a small farm with his family. The investigation of the tragedy was conducted by a resident
of Arkansas named R.B. Caries, a white man, who furnished the account to the Arkansas Democrat
over his own signature. He says the original trouble which led to the lynching was a quarrel
between Biscoe and a white man about a debt. About six years after Biscoe preempted his land,
a white man made a demand of $100 upon him for services in showing him the land and making
the sale. Biscoe denied the service and refused to pay the demand. The white man, however,
brought suit, obtained judgment for the hundred dollars and Biscoe's farm was sold to pay the
judgment.

The suit, judgment and subsequent legal proceedings appear to have driven Biscoe almost crazy
and brooding over his wrongs he grew to be a confirmed imbecile. He would allow but few men,
white or colored, to come upon his place, as he suspected every stranger to be planning to
steal his farm. A week preceding the tragedy, a white man named Venable, whose farm adjoined
Biscoe's, let down the fence and proceeded to drive through Biscoe's field. The latter saw
him; grew very excited, cursed him and drove him from his farm with bitter oaths and violent
threats. Venable went away and secured a warrant for Biscoe's arrest. This warrant was placed
in the hands of a constable named John Ford, who took a colored deputy and two white men out
to Biscoe's farm to make the arrest. When they arrived at the house Biscoe refused to be arrested
and warned them he would shoot if they persisted in their attempt to arrest him. The warning
was unheeded by Ford, who entered upon the premises, when Biscoe, true to his word, fired upon
him. The load tore a part of his clothes from his body, one shot going through his arm and
entering his breast. After he had fallen, Ford drew his revolver and shot Biscoe in the head
and his wife through the arm. The Negro deputy then began firing and struck Biscoe in the small
of the back. Ford's wound was not dangerous and in a few days he was able to be around again.
Biscoe, however, was so severely shot that he was unable to stand after the firing was over.

Two other white men hearing the exchange of shots went to the rescue of the officers, forced
open the door of Biscoe's cabin and arrested him, his wife and thirteen-year-old son, and took
them, together with a babe at the breast, to a small frame house near the depot and put them
under guard. The subsequent proceedings were briefly told by Mr. Carlee in the columns of the
Arkansas Democrat above mentioned, from whose account the following excerpt is taken:

  It was rumored here that the Negroes were to be lynched that night, but
  I do not think it was generally credited, as it was not believed that
  Ford was greatly hurt and the Negro was held to be fatally injured and
  crazy at that. But that night, about 8 o'clock, a party of perhaps
  twelve or fifteen men, a number of whom were known to the guards, came
  to the house and told the Negro guards they would take care of the
  prisoners now, and for them to leave; as they did not obey at once they
  were persuaded to leave with words that did not admit of delay.

  The woman began to cry and said, "You intend to kill us to get our
  money." They told her to hush (she was heavy with child and had a child
  at her breast) as they intended to give her a nice present. The guards
  heard no more, but hastened to a Negro church near by and urged the
  preacher to go up and stop the mob. A few minutes after, the shooting
  began, perhaps about forty shots being fired. The white men then left
  rapidly and the Negroes went to the house. Hamp Biscoe and his wife were
  killed, the baby had a slight wound across the upper lip; the boy was
  still alive and lived until after midnight, talking rationally and
  telling who did the shooting.

  He said when they came in and shot his father, he attempted to run out
  of doors and a young man shot him in the bowels and that he fell. He saw
  another man shoot his mother and a taller young man, whom he did not
  know, shoot his father. After they had killed them, the young man who
  had shot his mother pulled off her stockings and took $220 in currency
  that she had hid there. The men then came to the door where the boy was
  lying and one of them turned him over and put his pistol to his breast
  and shot him again. This is the story the dying boy told as near as I
  can get it. It is quite singular that the guards and those who had
  conversed with him were not required to testify. The woman was known to
  have the money as she had exposed it that day. She also had $36 in
  silver, which the plunderer of the body did not get. The Negro was
  undoubtedly insane and had been for several years. The citizens of this
  community condemn the murder and have no sympathy with it. The Negro was
  a well-to-do farmer, but had become crazed because he was convinced some
  plot had been made to steal his land and only a few days ago declared
  that he expected to die in defense of his home in a short time and he
  did not care how soon. The killing of a woman with the child at her
  breast and in her condition, and also a young boy, was extremely brutal.
  As for Hamp Biscoe he was dangerous and should long have been confined
  in the insane asylum. Such were the facts as near as I can get them and
  you can use them as you see fit, but I would prefer you would suppress
  the names charged by the Negroes with the killing.

Perhaps the civilized world will think, that with all these facts laid before the public, by
a writer who signs his name to his communication, in a land where grand juries are sworn to
investigate, where judges and juries are sworn to administer the law and sheriffs are paid
to execute the decrees of the courts, and where, in fact, every instrument of civilization
is supposed to work for the common good of all citizens, that this matter was duly investigated,
the criminals apprehended and the punishment meted out to the murderers. But this is a mistake;
nothing of the kind was done or attempted. Six months after the publication, above referred
to, an investigator, writing to find out what had been done in the matter, received the following
reply:

  OFFICE OF
  S.S. GLOVER,
  SHERIFF AND COLLECTOR,
  LONOKE COUNTY.

  Lonoke, Ark., 9-12-1892

  Geo. Washington, Esq.,
  Chicago, Ill.

  DEAR SIR:--The parties who killed Hamp Briscoe February the ninth, have
  never been arrested. The parties are still in the county. It was done by
  some of the citizens, and those who know will not tell.

  S.S. GLOVER, Sheriff

Thus acts the mob with the victim of its fury, conscious that it will never be called to an
account. Not only is this true, but the moral support of those who are chosen by the people
to execute the law, is frequently given to the support of lawlessness and mob violence. The
press and even the pulpit, in the main either by silence or open apology, have condoned and
encouraged this state of anarchy.

TORTURED AND BURNED IN TEXAS

Never In the history of civilization has any Christian people stooped to such shocking brutality
and indescribable barbarism as that which characterized the people of Paris, Texas, and adjacent
communities on the first of February, 1893. The cause of this awful outbreak of human passion
was the murder of a four-year-old child, daughter of a man named Vance. This man, Vance, had
been a police officer in Paris for years, and was known to be a man of bad temper, overbearing
manner and given to harshly treating the prisoners under his care. He had arrested Smith and,
it is said, cruelly mistreated him. Whether or not the murder of his child was an art of fiendish
revenge, it has not been shown, but many persons who know of the incident have suggested that
the secret of the attack on the child lay in a desire for revenge against its father.

In the same town there lived a Negro, named Henry Smith, a well-known character, a kind of
roustabout, who was generally considered a harmless, weak-minded fellow, not capable of doing
any important work, but sufficiently able to do chores and odd jobs around the houses of the
white people who cared to employ him. A few days before the final tragedy, this man, Smith,
was accused of murdering Myrtle Vance. The crime of murder was of itself bad enough, and to
prove that against Smith would have been amply sufficient in Texas to have committed him to
the gallows, but the finding of the child so exasperated the father and his friends, that they
at once shamefully exaggerated the facts and declared that the babe had been ruthlessly assaulted
and then killed. The truth was bad enough, but the white people of the community made it a
point to exaggerate every detail of the awful affair, and to inflame the public mind so that
nothing less than immediate and violent death would satisfy the populace. As a matter of fact,
the child was not brutally assaulted as the world has been told in excuse for the awful barbarism
of that day. Persons who saw the child after its death, have stated, under the most solemn
pledge to truth, that there was no evidence of such an assault as was published at that time,
only a slight abrasion and discoloration was noticeable and that mostly about the neck. In
spite of this fact, so eminent a man as Bishop Haygood deliberately and, it must also appear,
maliciously falsified the fact by stating that the child was torn limb from limb, or to quote
his own words, "First outraged with demoniacal cruelty and then taken by her heels and torn
asunder in the mad wantonness of gorilla ferocity."

Nothing is farther from the truth than that statement. It is a coldblooded, deliberate, brutal
falsehood which this Christian(?) Bishop uses to bolster up the infamous plea that the people
of Paris were driven to insanity by learning that the little child had been viciously assaulted,
choked to death, and then torn to pieces by a demon in human form. It was a brutal murder,
but no more brutal than hundreds of murders which occur in this country, and which have been
equalled every year in fiendishness and brutality, and for which the death penalty is prescribed
by law and inflicted only after the person has been legally adjudged guilty of the crime. Those
who knew Smith, believe that Vance had at some time given him cause to seek revenge and that
this fearful crime was the outgrowth of his attempt to avenge himself of some real or fancied
wrong. That the murderer was known as an imbecile, had no effect whatever upon the people who
thirsted for his blood. They determined to make an example of him and proceeded to carry out
their purpose with unspeakably greater ferocity than that which characterized the half-crazy
object of their revenge.

For a day or so after the child was found in the woods, Smith remained in the vicinity as if
nothing had happened, and when finally becoming aware that he was suspected, he made an attempt
to escape. He was apprehended, however, not far from the scene of his crime and the news flashed
across the country that the white Christian people of Paris, Texas and the communities thereabout
had deliberately determined to lay aside all forms of law and inaugurate an entirely new form
of punishment for the murder. They absolutely refused to make any inquiry as to the sanity
or insanity of their prisoner, but set the day and hour when in the presence of assembled thousands
they put their helpless victim to the stake, tortured him, and then burned him to death for
the delectation and satisfaction of Christian people.

Lest it might be charged that any description of the deeds of that day are exaggerated, a white
man's description which was published in the white journals of this country is used. The New
York Sun of February 2, 1893, contains an account, from which we make the following excerpt:

  PARIS, Tex., Feb. 1, 1893.--Henry Smith, the negro ravisher of
  four-year-old Myrtle Vance, has expiated in part his awful crime by
  death at the stake. Ever since the perpetration of his awful crime this
  city and the entire surrounding country has been in a wild frenzy of
  excitement. When the news came last night that he had been captured at
  Hope, Ark., that he had been identified by B.B. Sturgeon, James T.
  Hicks, and many other of the Paris searching party, the city was wild
  with joy over the apprehension of the brute. Hundreds of people poured
  into the city from the adjoining country and the word passed from lip
  to lip that the punishment of the fiend should fit the crime that death
  by fire was the penalty Smith should pay for the most atrocious murder
  and terrible outrage in Texas history. Curious and sympathizing alike,
  they came on train and wagons, on horse, and on foot to see if the frail
  mind of a man could think of a way to sufficiently punish the
  perpetrator of so terrible a crime. Whisky shops were closed, unruly
  mobs were dispersed, schools were dismissed by a proclamation from the
  mayor, and everything was done in a business-like manner.

MEETING OF CITIZENS

About 2 o'clock Friday a mass meeting was called at the courthouse and captains appointed to
search for the child. She was found mangled beyond recognition, covered with leaves and brush
as above mentioned. As soon as it was learned upon the recovery of the body that the crime
was so atrocious the whole town turned out in the chase. The railroads put up bulletins offering
free transportation to all who would join in the search. Posses went in every direction, and
not a stone was left unturned. Smith was tracked to Detroit on foot, where he jumped on a freight
train and left for his old home in Hempstead county, Arkansas. To this county he was tracked
and yesterday captured at Clow, a flag station on the Arkansas & Louisiana railway about twenty
miles north of Hope. Upon being questioned the fiend denied everything, but upon being stripped
for examination his undergarments were seen to be spattered with blood and a part of his shirt
was torn off. He was kept under heavy guard at Hope last night, and later on confessed the crime.

This morning he was brought through Texarkana, where 5,000 people awaited the train, anxious
to see a man who had received the fate of Ed. Coy. At that place speeches were made by prominent
Paris citizens, who asked that the prisoner be not molested by Texarkana people, but that the
guard be allowed to deliver him up to the outraged and indignant citizens of Paris. Along the
road the train gathered strength from the various towns, the people crowded upon the platforms
and tops of coaches anxious to see the lynching and the negro who was soon to be delivered
to an infuriated mob.

BURNED AT THE STAKE

Arriving here at 12 o'clock the train was met by a surging mass of humanity 10,000 strong.
The negro was placed upon a carnival float in mockery of a king upon his throne, and, followed
by an immense crowd, was escorted through the city so that all might see the most inhuman monster
known in current history. The line of march was up Main Street to the square, around the square
down Clarksville street to Church Street, thence to the open prairies about 300 yards from
the Texas & Pacific depot. Here Smith was placed upon a scaffold, six feet square and ten feet
high, securely bound, within the view of all beholders. Here the victim was tortured for fifty
minutes by red-hot iron brands thrust against his quivering body. Commencing at the feet the
brands were placed against him inch by inch until they were thrust against the face. Then,
being apparently dead, kerosene was poured upon him, cottonseed hulls placed beneath him and
set on fire. In less time than it takes to relate it, the tortured man was wafted beyond the
grave to another fire, hotter and more terrible than the one just experienced.

Curiosity seekers have carried away already all that was left of the memorable event, even
to pieces of charcoal. The cause of the crime was that Henry Vance when a deputy policeman,
in the course of his duty was called to arrest Henry Smith for being drunk and disorderly.
The Negro was unruly, and Vance was forced to use his club. The Negro swore vengeance, and
several times assaulted Vance. In his greed for revenge, last Thursday, he grabbed up the little
girl and committed the crime. The father is prostrated with grief and the mother now lies at
death's door, but she has lived to see the slayer of her innocent babe suffer the most horrible
death that could be conceived.

TORTURE BEYOND DESCRIPTION

Words to describe the awful torture inflicted upon Smith cannot be found. The Negro, for a
long time after starting on the journey to Paris, did not realize his plight. At last when
he was told that he must die by slow torture he begged for protection. His agony was awful.
He pleaded and writhed in bodily and mental pain. Scarcely had the train reached Paris than
this torture commenced. His clothes were torn off piecemeal and scattered in the crowd, people
catching the shreds and putting them away as mementos. The child's father, her brother, and
two uncles then gathered about the Negro as he lay fastened to the torture platform and thrust
hot irons into his quivering flesh. It was horrible--the man dying by slow torture in the midst
of smoke from his own burning flesh. Every groan from the fiend, every contortion of his body
was cheered by the thickly packed crowd of 10,000 persons. The mass of beings 600 yards in
diameter, the scaffold being the center. After burning the feet and legs, the hot irons--plenty
of fresh ones being at hand--were rolled up and down Smith's stomach, back, and arms. Then
the eyes were burned out and irons were thrust down his throat.

The men of the Vance family having wreaked vengeance, the crowd piled all kinds of combustible
stuff around the scaffold, poured oil on it and set it afire. The Negro rolled and tossed out
of the mass, only to be pushed back by the people nearest him. He tossed out again, and was
roped and pulled back. Hundreds of people turned away, but the vast crowd still looked calmly
on. People were here from every part of this section. They came from Dallas, Fort Worth, Sherman,
Denison, Bonham, Texarkana, Fort Smith, Ark., and a party of fifteen came from Hempstead county,
Arkansas, where he was captured. Every train that came in was loaded to its utmost capacity,
and there were demands at many points for special trains to bring the people here to see the
unparalleled punishment for an unparalleled crime. When the news of the burning went over the
country like wildfire, at every country town anvils boomed forth the announcement.

SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN AN ASYLUM

