"Your wife--" Dick started up with something like a groan. "Yes, your wife, Percival. You see
a man does not always stand alone. Your wife has a necklace of worthless rubies, which she
has told you was a present from our dear departed Swami. If people only knew about it, there
might be a certain amount of scandal about a young woman's receiving a supposedly valuable
gift from a swindler who was also a social idol. Don't go off your head, Dick. You've got to
listen to me. As a matter of fact, she lied to you when she told you he gave them to her. She
bought them; and she had not the money to pay for them. I suppose it was at his suggestion
that she borrowed the sum from me. That would have been all right, except that she gave me
a note signed by Richard Percival, and she quite omitted to tell me that her husband was away
at the time. I found that out by chance afterward, after I had supplied her demand. Would you
like to see the forgery, Dick? It's an ugly word, but we might just as well be plain with each
other."

Dick's tongue had grown dry and speechless, so that he seemed to have no power to check this
recital, and now all he could do was to reach out an eager hand.

"Not so fast," said Mr. Early. "It's mine, not yours. And it will take more than the five thousand
dollars out of which it swindled me to buy it back. It sounds bad, doesn't it? A forgery, connected
with a rascal who was the talk of the country. I should not myself care to pose again as the
dupe of a woman and her friendly counterfeiter, but that would be a small matter compared with
the hail of scandal that would whir around the head of that pretty little butterfly, your wife."

"Scandal! My wife!" Dick staggered to his feet.

"That is what we all want to avoid, don't we?" Mr. Early asked with his fat smile.

They looked at each other in silence. Dick had a wild impulse to fling himself on his knees,
spiritually speaking, and to beg for mercy; but the expression of Mr. Early's face suggested
that all sentiment would fall into cold storage in his breast.

"You've been devoting yourself, with a certain amount of success, to digging out the hidden
things in other men's careers," the tormentor went on with a cheerful sneer. "I suppose it
has amused you. I know it amuses me, and it would doubtless amuse the public, to fix attention
on this little affair of your own. You must remember that you have this disadvantage: you and
your kind are thin-skinned. Billy Barry and his kind are pachyderms."

He settled back comfortably in his chair and smiled benevolently at Dick's white face.

"Well?" Dick asked at last hoarsely.

Mr. Early carefully refolded the slip of paper, and tucked it away in his vest pocket, but
he spoke with engaging openness.

"It's yours, my dear boy, the day after the lighting franchise passes over the mayor's veto.
If they fail to pass it, I shall know that you and Mrs. Percival are willing to stand a little
public obloquy for the sake of what you consider right. Very creditable to you, I am sure,
and damned uncomfortable for your wife."

Dick still stared at him, and he went on: "I'll leave you to think it over. In fact, I do not
know that it is necessary for me to learn your decision except by your action. Sorry to have
to take extreme measures, but it's every one for himself, in this world."

He went out, and Dick sank into a chair and stared at his toes and the ashes.

"What's the use?" he said to himself. "She didn't know what she was doing. I can't change it
or her."

Winter went on, and Ellery and Madeline were married. Dick squandered himself on their wedding
present, and looked like a thunder-cloud as he watched the ceremony. On the day after he returned
from his brief honeymoon, Norris started down town to take up the routine of life, irradiated
now by love and purpose. The world seemed fresh and fair, and even the face of Billy Barry
less unlovely than usual as they met near Newspaper Row.

"Morning," said Mr. Barry. "You look ripping. My congratulations. Sorry you could not come
around to the council meeting, last night. You'd have been pleased to see the old franchise
waltz through."

"What do you mean?" demanded Norris, stopping short.

"Haven't even read the morning paper? Good land, that's what it means to be a bridegroom!"
Barry went on with a chuckle. "Couldn't stop looking at her face behind the coffee-pot!"

Norris restrained an impulse to throttle him and allowed Barry to proceed.

"Why, yes, we passed the old thing. I always said we would. Your friend Percival voted with
the combine. He's the real stuff. When he saw how truth and justice lay, he buckled down and
did the square thing. Have a cigar? No? Oh yes, it's straight goods I'm givin' you. You needn't
look so queer. And say, on the quiet, I'm rather stuck on you reform fellers. All they need
is argument. So when you get 'em, you get 'em cheap. Say, it's better than cash, any day."

Norris ran up the steps and snatched a morning's paper. Yes, it was true. Percival had voted
against his friends and had given the victory to the other side. Ellery flung into his office
and whirled into his day's work in a kind of daze. There was much to do and no time for outside
thought, but when the afternoon was over, instead of rushing back to the little home, as he
had expected, Norris hurried into his coat and hastened to find Dick. Mr. Percival was at home;
and, without waiting to be announced, Ellery sprang up the stairs to the little sanctum where
the two had confabbed on many a day. He plunged in on Dick, pale and unresponsive, and blurted
out his question.

"Yes," said Dick, "I voted for it. I became convinced that it was the best thing the city could
do. I've been telling the boys so for the past two weeks. I really didn't understand the matter
before. Don't get so excited, Norris."

He spoke quietly, but without meeting his friend's eyes, and Ellery's heart sank.

"I don't know what it means, Dick," he said bitterly, "but it seems to me that, like Lucifer,
you've been falling from dawn to dewy eve, and now you are likely to consort with the devils
in the pit. Are you the old Dick who used to be my idol?"

"Oh, bosh!" said Dick. "You are making mountains out of mole hills. The franchise is all right."

"It's not all right; and you're not all right," cried Norris, in a frantic grasping after the
truth of the matter. "The old relationships are slipping away and something that was as dear
to me as myself is going with them."

He turned away and Dick suddenly rose.

"Ellery," he cried hoarsely, and Norris turned to see anguish in Dick's face and outstretched
hand, "I--I--can't explain to you," cried Percival; "but, Ellery--" he moved forward, "don't
cut the bonds of old friendship, for God's sake! I need you now, as I never did before. If
you desert me, I shall lose my grip."

Norris stepped back, and the two took each other's hands and looked steadfastly, eye into eye.
And Norris saw something that took on him the hold that death has on us, and made him ready
to forgive. Death is the big problem of every mind. We may perhaps master and solve the question
when the death is of the body, but when the soul dies out, the problem is too great.

Ellery sank into a chair with weariness.

"Tell me about it," he said.

Then Dick stiffened again.

"There isn't anything to tell."

"See here," said Norris. "This isn't only a question of the lighting franchise. The city may
walk in darkness and be damned for all I care; but I can't bear that you should walk in darkness.
Do you realize what it means? You have fought your first public battle on a basis of truth.
You make your first public appearance in league with evil. You are killing the hope of your
public career before it is fairly in bud."

"I know it," said Dick.

"Percival, you've stirred this city into consciousness. It's been wonderful how you have done
it so swiftly, for it is your doing. The decent elements are marching forward into control
and it belongs to you to march at their head. The thing has got to go on. If you don't lead
it, some one else will."

"I know it."

"And you are going to give up?" Ellery urged, incredulous.

"I haven't decided. Perhaps I have done with politics."

"And if you abandon your public career, what are you going to do?"

"What do other failures do?"

"Oh, stuff!" exclaimed Norris, and began to pace the room. "Then you did not vote for the franchise
because you believed in it. Somebody has a pull on you. I'd never have believed that any man
in this wide world would get a pull on Dick Percival."

"Well, somebody has," said Dick shortly. "I wouldn't say so much as that to any mortal but
yourself. Now spare me, Ellery, and don't carry it any further. Do you think," he went on bitterly,
"that I have not gone over the whole ground and told myself the old truths that never mean
anything to you until life rams them home on your consciousness? A man may creep out from under
the machinery of state law, and escape from the punishment he deserves; but from the laws under
which we really live, there is no escape. It is reap what you sow; hate and you shall be hated;
sin and suffer. And it isn't as though one went out to sow. One sows perforce, every minute,
whether he will or not. In some instances the reaping is singularly little fun, Ellery."

"Well, whatever hold this mysterious some one has on you, be a man. Stand up and own yourself
and let the consequences go hang."

"I know some men could. You could. That's the advantage of having taken a good many hard blows.
You learn to stand up against them," Dick answered slowly. "You know other people's opinion
has always been a god to me. I haven't the strength to defy it now."

There was a short silence, then Dick laid his arms across his friend's shoulders, quite in
the old friendly way.

"Now may we drop that subject and be good pals again?"

"Not yet," Ellery said sharply. "We won't drop it till I've had one more say. Dick, don't be
knocked out by a single blow. You! Why, I thought you had a grip like a bulldog. I can't believe
even in this ugly mess. Still less will I believe that you haven't the courage--that you aren't
man enough to own your defeat, and then go on as though you hadn't been beaten."

Dick poked at the andirons with his toe. Suddenly he looked up with a flash of his old brilliance
and buoyancy.

"Suppose I do!" he exclaimed. "What a fellow you are, Ellery, to stick to me this way! But
don't underestimate my difficulty. I'm not an absolute coward, but I've been beaten not only
once, but on both flanks and in the middle. Everything in life seemed to be giving me a kick.
I was at the bottom when you came in, but if you believe in me, perhaps I'll begin to believe
in myself again. You've always been telling me how much I did for you. You've done more for
me to-night than I ever dreamed of doing for you."

Ellery's face cleared. They stood with clasped hands, and there seemed no need of further explanations
or assurances. Norris drew a long breath of relief.

"So we are friends still?" asked Dick.

"Till the Judgment Day and beyond."

"Now good-by," said Dick, as though anxious to get rid of him, "till to-morrow."

"Till to-morrow."

A moment later a radiant vision stood in the doorway making a pouting face.

"Dick," said Lena.

Dick started and stiffened himself as though to give battle, his hands rested on the chair-back
in front of him, but an instant's survey of his wife's rose-leaf face, her well-groomed masses
of hair, her dainty evening gown, seemed to inspire another attitude. He threw his arms passionately
around her.

