"It is the loveliest day of fullest spring. An aspen under the window whispers to me in a chorus
of all its leaves, and when I look out, every leaf turns a sunbeam at me. I am writing in Viele's
quarters in the villa of Somebody Stone, upon whose place or farm we are encamped. The man
who built and set down these four great granite pillars in front of his house, for a carriage-porch,
had an eye or two for a fine site. This seems to be the finest possible about Washington. It
is a terrace called Meridian Hill, two miles north of Pennsylvania Avenue. The house commands
the vista of the Potomac, all the plain of the city, and a charming lawn of delicious green,
with oaks of first dignity just coming into leaf. It is lovely Nature, and the spot has snatched
a grace from Art. The grounds are laid out after a fashion, and planted with shrubbery. The
snowballs are at their snowballiest..... Have you heard or--how many times have you used the
simile of some one, Bad-muss or Cadmus, or another hero, who sowed the dragon's teeth, and
they came up dragoons a hundred-fold and infantry a thousand-fold? Nil admirari is, of course,
my frame of mind; but I own astonishment at the crop of soldiers. They must ripen awhile, perhaps,
before they are to be named quite soldiers. Ripening takes care of itself; and by the harvest-time
they will be ready to cut down.

"I find that the men best informed about the South do not anticipate much severe fighting.
Scott's Fabian policy will demoralize their armies. If the people do not bother the great Cunetator
to death before he is ready to move to assured victory, he will make defeat impossible. Meanwhile
there will be enough outwork going on, like those neat jobs in Missouri, to keep us all interested......
Know, O comrade, that I am already a corporal,--an acting corporal, selected by our commanding
officer for my general effect of pipe-clay, my rapidity of heel and toe, my present arms, etc.,
but liable to be ousted by suffrage any moment. Quod faustum sit, ... I had already been introduced
to the Secretary of War..... I called at ----'s and saw, with two or three others,---- on the
sofa. Him my prophetic soul named my uncle to be..... But in my uncle's house are many nephews,
and whether nepotism or my transcendent merit will prevail we shall see. I have fun,--I get
experience,--I see much,--it pays. Ah, yes! But in these fair days of May I miss my Staten
Island. War stirs the pulse, but it wounds a little all the time.

"Compliment for me Tib [a little dog] and the Wisterias,--also the mares and the billiard-table.
Ask ---- to give you t'other lump of sugar in my behalf.... Should ---- return, say that I
regret not being present with an unpremeditated compliment, as thus,--'Ah! the first rose of
summer!'.... I will try to get an enemy's button for ----, should the enemy attack. If the
Seventh returns presently, I am afraid I shall be obliged to return with them for a time. But
I mean to see this job through, somehow."

In such an airy, sportive vein he wrote, with the firm purpose and the distinct thought visible
under the sparkle. Before the regiment left Washington, as he has recorded, he said good-bye
and went down the bay to Fortress Monroe. Of his unshrinking and sprightly industry, his good
head, his warm heart, and cool hand, as a soldier, General Butler has given precious testimony
to his family. "I loved him as a brother," the General writes of his young aid.

The last days of his life at Fortress Monroe were doubtless also the happiest. His energy and
enthusiasm, and kind, winning ways, and the deep satisfaction of feeling that all his gifts
could now be used as he would have them, showed him and his friends that his day had at length
dawned. He was especially interested in the condition and fate of the slaves who escaped from
the neighboring region and sought refuge at the fort. He had never for an instant forgotten
the secret root of the treason which was desolating the land with war; and in his view there
would be no peace until that root was destroyed. In his letters written from the fort he suggests
plans of relief and comfort for the refugees; and one of his last requests was to a lady in
New York for clothes for these poor pensioners. They were promptly sent, but reached the fort
too late.

The sketches of the campaign in Virginia, which Winthrop had commenced in this magazine, would
have been continued, and have formed an invaluable memoir of the places, the men, and the operations
of which he was a witness and a part. As a piece of vivid pictorial description, which gives
the spirit as well as the spectacle, his "Washington as a Camp" is masterly. He knew not only
what to see and to describe, but what to think; so that in his papers you are not at the mercy
of a multitudinous mass of facts, but understand their value and relation. Immediately upon
his arrival at Fort Monroe he had commenced a third article, which was to have occupied the
place of this. It is inserted here just as he left it, with one brief addition only to make
his known meaning more clear. The part called "Voices of the Contraband" was written previously,
and is not paged in the manuscript. It was to have been introduced into the article; but it
is placed first here, that the sequence of the paper, as far as the author had written it,
may remain undisturbed.

VOICES OF THE CONTRABAND.

Solvuntur risu tabulae. An epigram abolished slavery in the United States. Large wisdom, stated
in fine wit, was the decision. "Negroes are contraband of war." "They are property," claim
the owners. Very well! As General Butler takes contraband horses used in transport of munitions
of war, so he takes contraband black creatures who tote the powder to the carts and flagellate
the steeds. As he takes a spade used in hostile earthworks, so he goes a little farther off
and takes the black muscle that wields the spade. As he takes the rations of the foe, so he
takes the sable Soyer whose skilful hand makes those rations savory to the palates and digestible
by the stomachs of the foe and so puts blood and nerve into them. As he took the steam-gun,
so he now takes what might become the stoker of the steam part of that machine and the aimer
of its gun part. As he takes the musket, so he seizes the object who in the Virginia army carries
that musket on its shoulder until its master is ready to reach out a lazy hand, nonchalantly
lift the piece, and carelessly pop a Yankee.

The third number of Winthrop's Sketches of the Campaign in Virginia begins here.

PHYSIOGNOMY OF FORTRESS MONROE.

The "Adelaide" is a steamer plying between Baltimore and Norfolk. But as Norfolk has ceased
to be a part of the United States, and is nowhere, the "Adelaide" goes no farther than Fortress
Monroe, Old Point Comfort, the chief somewhere of this region. A lady, no doubt Adelaide herself,
appears in alto rilievo on the paddle-box. She has a short waist, long skirt sans crinoline,
leg-of-mutton sleeves, lofty bearing, and stands like Ariadne on an island of pedestal size,
surrounded by two or more pre-Raphaelite trees. In the offing comes or goes a steamboat, also
pre-Raphaelite; and if Ariadne Adelaide's Bacchus is on board, he is out of sight at the bar.

Such an Adelaide brought me in sight of Fortress Monroe at sunrise, May 29, 1861. The fort,
though old enough to be full-grown, has not grown very tall upon the low sands of Old Point
Comfort. It is a big house with a basement story and a garret. The roof is left off, and the
stories between basement and garret have never been inserted.

But why not be technical? For basement read a tier of casemates, each with a black Cyclops
of a big gun peering out; while above in the open air, with not even a parasol over their backs,
lie the barbette guns, staring without a wink over sea and shore.

In peace, with a hundred or so soldiers here and there, this vast inclosure might seem a solitude.
Now it is a busy city,--a city of one idea. I seem to recollect that D'Israeli said somewhere
that every great city was founded on one idea and existed to develop it. This city, into which
we have improvised a population, has its idea,--a unit of an idea with two halves. The east
half is the recovery of Norfolk,--the west half the occupation of Richmond; and the idea complete
is the education of Virginia's unmannerly and disloyal sons.

Why Secession did not take this great place when its defenders numbered a squad of officers
and three hundred men is mysterious. Floyd and his gang were treacherous enough. What was it?
Were they imbecile? Were they timid? Was there, till too late, a doubt whether the traitors
at home in Virginia would sustain them in an overt act of such big overture as an attempt here?
But they lost the chance, and with it lost the key of Virginia, which General Butler now holds,
this 30th day of May, and will presently begin to turn in the lock.

Three hundred men to guard a mile and a half of ramparts! Three hundred to protect some sixty-five
broad acres within the walls! But the place was a Thermopylae, and there was a fine old Leonidas
at the head of its three hundred. He was enough to make Spartans of them. Colonel Dimmick was
the man,--a quiet, modest, shrewd, faithful, Christian gentleman; and he held all Virginia
at bay. The traitors knew, that, so long as the Colonel was here, these black muzzles with
their white tompions, like a black eye with a white pupil, meant mischief. To him and his guns,
flanking the approaches and ready to pile the moat full of Seceders, the country owes the safety
of Fortress Monroe.

Within the walls are sundry nice old brick houses for officers' barracks. The jolly bachelors
live in the casemates and the men in long barracks, now not so new or so convenient as they
might be. In fact, the physiognomy of Fortress Monroe is not so neat, well-shorn, and elegant
as a grand military post should be. Perhaps our Floyds, and the like, thought, if they kept
everything in perfect order here, they, as Virginians, accustomed to general seediness, would
not find themselves at home. But the new régime must change all this, and make this the biggest,
the best equipped, and the model garrison of the country. For, of course, this must be strongly
held for many, many years to come. It is idle to suppose that the dull louts we find here,
not enlightened even enough to know that loyalty is the best policy, can be allowed the highest
privilege of the moral, the intelligent, and the progressive,--self-government. Mind is said
to march fast in our time; but mind must put on steam hereabouts to think and act for itself,
without stern schooling, in half a century.

But no digressing! I have looked far away from the physiognomy of the fortress. Let us turn to the

PHYSIOGNOMY OF THE COUNTRY.

The face of this county, Elizabeth City by name, is as flat as a Chinaman's. I can hardly wonder
that the people here have retrograded, or rather, not advanced. This dull flat would make anybody
dull and flat. I am no longer surprised at John Tyler. He has had a bare blank brick house,
entitled sweetly Margarita Cottage, or some such tender epithet, at Hampton, a mile and a half
from the fort. A summer in this site would make any man a bore. And as something has done this
favor for His Accidency, I am willing to attribute it to the influence of locality.

The country is flat; the soil is fine sifted loam running to dust, as the air of England runs
to fog; the woods are dense and beautiful and full of trees unknown to the parallel of New
York; the roads are miserable cart-paths; the cattle are scalawags; so are the horses, not
run away; so are the people, black and white, not run away; the crops are tolerable, where
the invaders have not trampled them.

Altogether the whole concern strikes me as a failure. Captain John Smith & Co. might as well
have stayed at home, if this is the result of the two hundred and thirty years' occupation.
Apparently the colonists picked out a poor spot; and the longer they stayed, the worse fist
they made of it. Powhattan, Pocahontas, and the others without pantaloons and petticoats, were
really more serviceable colonists.

The farm-houses are mostly miserably mean habitations. I don't wonder the tenants were glad
to make our arrival the excuse for running off. Here are men claiming to have been worth forty
thousand dollars, half in biped property, half in all other kinds, and they lived in dens such
as a drayman would have disdained and a hod-carrier only accepted on compulsion.

PHYSIOGNOMY OF WATER.

Always beautiful! the sea cannot be spoilt. Our fleet enlivens it greatly. Here is the flag-ship
"Cumberland" vis-à-vis the fort. Off to the left are the prizes, unlucky schooners, which ought
to be carrying pine wood to the kitchens of New York, and new potatoes and green peas for the
wood to operate upon. This region, by the way, is New York's watermelon patch for early melons;
and if we do not conquer a peace here pretty soon, the Jersey fruit will have the market to itself.

Besides stately flag-ships and poor little bumboat schooners, transports are coming and going
with regiments or provisions for the same. Here, too, are old acquaintances from the bay of
New York,--the "Yankee," a lively tug,--the "Harriet Lane," coquettish and plucky,--the "Catiline,"
ready to reverse her name and put down conspiracy.

On the dock are munitions of war in heaps. Volunteer armies load themselves with things they
do not need, and forget the essentials. The unlucky army-quartermaster's people, accustomed
to the slow and systematic methods of the by-gone days at Fortress Monroe, fume terribly over
these cargoes. The new men and the new manners of the new army do not altogether suit the actual
men and manners of the obsolete army. The old men and the new must recombine. What we want
now is the vigor of fresh people to utilize the experience of the experts. The Silver-Gray
Army needs a frisky element interfused. On the other hand, the new army needs to be taught
a lesson in method by the old; and the two combined will make the grand army of civilization.

THE FORCES.

When I arrived, Fort Monroe and the neighborhood were occupied by two armies.

1. General Butler.

2. About six thousand men, here and at Newport's News.

Making together more than twelve thousand men.

Of the first army, consisting of the General, I will not speak. Let his past supreme services
speak for him, as I doubt not the future will.

Next to the array of a man comes the army of men. Regulars a few, with many post officers,
among them some very fine and efficient fellows. These are within the post. Also within is
the Third Regiment of Massachusetts, under Colonel Wardrop, the right kind of man to have,
and commanding a capital regiment of three-months men, neatly uniformed in gray, with cocked
felt hats.

Without the fort, across the moat, and across the bridge connecting this peninsula of sand
with the nearest side of the mainland, are encamped three New York regiments. Each is in a
wheat field, up to its eyes in dust. In order of precedence they come One, Two, and Five; in
order of personal splendor of uniform they come Five, One, Two; in order of exploits they are
all in the same negative position at present; and the Second has done rather the most robbing
of hen-roosts.

The Fifth, Duryea's Zouaves, lighten up the woods brilliantly with their scarlet legs and scarlet
head-pieces.

       *       *       *       *       *

These last words were written upon the day that the attack in which Winthrop fell was arranged.

The disastrous day of the 10th of June, at Great Bethel, need not be described here. It is
already written with tears and vain regrets in our history. It is useless to prolong the debate
as to where the blame of the defeat, if blame there were, should rest. But there is an impression
somewhat prevalent that Winthrop planned the expedition, which is incorrect. As military secretary
of the commanding general, he made a memorandum of the outline of the plan as it had been finally
settled. Precisely what that memorandum (which has been published) was he explains in the last
letter he wrote, a few hours before leaving the fort. He says,--"If I come back safe, I will
send you my notes of the plan of attack, part made up from the General's hints, part my own
fancies." This defines exactly his responsibility. His position as aid and military secretary,
his admirable qualities as adviser under the circumstances, and his personal friendship for
the General, brought him intimately into the council of war. He embarked in the plan all the
interest of a brave soldier contemplating his first battle. He probably made suggestions some
of which were adopted. The expedition was the first move from Fort Monroe, to which the country
had been long looking in expectation. These were the reasons why he felt so peculiar a responsibility
for its success; and after the melancholy events of the earlier part of the day, he saw that
its fortunes could be retrieved only by a dash of heroic enthusiasm. Fired himself, he sought
to kindle others. For one moment that brave, inspiring form is plainly visible to his whole
country, rapt and calm, standing upon the log nearest the enemy's battery, the mark of their
sharpshooters, the admiration of their leaders, waving his sword, cheering his fellow-soldiers
with his bugle voice of victory,--young, brave, beautiful, for one moment erect and glowing
in the wild whirl of battle, the next falling forward toward the foe, dead, but triumphant.

On the 19th of April he left the armory-door of the Seventh, with his hand upon a howitzer;
on the 21st of June his body lay upon the same howitzer at the same door, wrapped in the flag
for which he gladly died, as the symbol of human freedom. And so, drawn by the hands of young
men lately strangers to him, but of whose bravery and loyalty he had been the laureate, and
who fitly mourned him who had honored them, with long, pealing dirges and muffled drums, he
moved forward.

Yet such was the electric vitality of this friend of ours, that those of us who followed him
could only think of him as approving the funeral pageant, not the object of it, but still the
spectator and critic of every scene in which he was a part. We did not think of him as dead.
We never shall. In the moist, warm midsummer morning, he was alert, alive, immortal.

DIRGE

FOR ONE WHO FELL IN BATTLE.

  Room for a Soldier! lay him in the clover;
  He loved the fields, and they shall be his cover;
  Make his mound with hers who called him once her lover:
  Where the rain may rain upon it,
  Where the sun may shine upon it,
  Where the lamb hath lain upon it,
  And the bee will dine upon it.

  Bear him to no dismal tomb under city churches;
  Take him to the fragrant fields, by the silver birches,
  Where the whippoorwill shall mourn, where the oriole perches:
  Make his mound with sunshine on it,
  Where the bee will dine upon it,
  Where the lamb hath lain upon it,
  And the rain will rain upon it.

