With an agonized shriek Miss Ainsley threw her arms about Clancy. As with uncertain footing
he sought to place her on a sofa they were both thrown violently upon it. He saw the chandeler
swaying to and fro, as if a thousand lights were dancing before his eyes; saw the other guests
staggering and falling. Statuettes, bric-a-brac, and articles of furniture came crashing down;
part of the ceiling fell with a thud, raising a stifling dust, which, choking the shrieking
voices, rendered more distinct the grinding sound, as walls of solid masonry drew apart, gaped,
and closed under the impulse of immeasurable power.

Above all rose the mysterious thunder, which was not thunder, because now it seemed to come
from unknown depths. Time is but relative, and the occupants of the room felt as if they were
passing through an eternity of agony.

The climax of horror was reached when the gas was extinguished, and all were left in pitchy
darkness. It seemed as if reason itself would go, but as suddenly as the convulsion had begun,
it ceased. There was a second or two of breathless waiting, and then Clancy shouted, "Come,
quick. There may be another shock."

With his right hand he struck a match, and, supporting Miss Ainsley by his left arm, led the way.

"Oh, what is it?" she gasped.

"An earthquake. Come; courage. We must get away from all buildings." Half lifting her, he swiftly
sought the street, and then the adjacent open ground of the Battery.

"All here?" he asked, panting, and looking around. The others soon appeared, Mr. Willoughby
coming last, and carrying his half-fainting wife. The negro servants had preceded, and were
already on their knees, groaning and praying. From every side other fugitives were pouring in.

"Miss Ainsley, you are with friends and as safe here as you can be anywhere," Clancy said hastily.
"There are others in the heart of the city," and he dashed away, regardless of her appealing
cry to return.

As Clancy rushed up Meeting Street he felt that any moment might be his last, and yet he was
more appalled at himself than at the awful sights about him. The human mind in such crises
is endowed with wonderful capacity. It seemed to him that his eyes took in all details as he
passed, and that his brain comprehended them. People were rushing from their homes, or carrying
out the feeble and injured. His way was impeded by fugitives, whose faces were seen by the
street-lamps to be ghastly pale and horror-stricken. The awful impression of the final day
of doom was heightened by the comparative nudity of many, both men and women; and among the
multitudinous images passing through Clancy's mind was a picture of the Judgment Day by one
of the old masters, with its naked, writhing human forms.

The air was resonant with every tone of anguish, hoarse shoutings, shrill screams, and the
plaintive cries of children. Above all other sounds articulate and inarticulate was heard the
word "God," as the stricken people appealed to Him, some on their knees, others as they stood
dazed and almost paralyzed, and others still as they rushed toward open places for safety.

"Yes, God," muttered Clancy. "May He forgive me for having forgotten Him! There are but two
thoughts left in this wreck, God and Mara. How unworthy were my recent motives and passion!
How unlike the love which leads me inevitably to breathe the name of Mara in my appeal to God!"

CHAPTER XL

"GOD"

Had Mara's heart been hers to keep or to give when she met Bodine, she could easily have learned
to love him for his own sake. Mrs. Bodine's impression was well founded, that Mara, unlike
most girls, was suited to such an alliance. The trouble was, that, before Bodine became friend,
then lover, she had given to Clancy what she could not recall, although she strove to do so
with a will singularly resolute, and from the strongest convictions of hopeless discord between
him and herself. With the purpose to make her father's friend happy was also blended the powerful
motive to extricate herself. She had felt that she must tear up by the roots the affection
which had been growing for years before she had recognized it, and at times, as we have seen,
thought it was yielding to the unrelenting grasp of her will. Again, discouraged and appalled
by its hold upon every fibre of her being, she would recognize how futile had been her efforts.
She could not, like many others, divert her thoughts and preoccupy her mind by various considerations
apart from the truth that she had promised to marry a man whom she did not love. Although so
warped, her nature was too simple, too concentrated, to permit any weak drifting toward events.
She believed that her life had narrowed down to Bodine, and she had decided to become his devoted
wife at every cost to herself, flow great that cost would be she was learning sadly, day by
day and hour by hour. As we know, she had permitted Bodine to learn her purpose at a time of
excitement and enthusiasm--at a time when his profound distress touched her deepest sympathies.
She had also hoped, that, when the irrevocable words had been spoken on each side, the calm
of fixed purpose and certainty would fall upon her spirit.

She had been disappointed. She trembled with a strange dread whenever she recalled the moment
when Bodine drew her to himself, conscious now of a truth, before unknown, that there was something
in her nature not amenable to enthusiasm, spiritual exaltation, or her passion for self-sacrifice--something
that would not shrink from death for his sake yet which did shrink from his kisses upon her lips.

Never had she suffered as during the last few days, for she was being taught by the inexorable
logic of facts and events. In Ella's crystal nature she saw what her own love should be, and
might have been. She had witnessed the girl's wild impulse to follow her lover to the depths
of the harbor, and her own heart gave swift interpretation. She was alive because a Northern
boy, deemed incapable of anything better than selfish, reckless love-making, had unhesitatingly
risked his life to save one who had spurned him. Even Mrs. Hunter's prejudice had been compelled
to yield, and she to admit the young fellow's nobility, of which she was a living proof. The
wretched thought haunted Mara that Owen Clancy, unblinded, had discovered for himself, what
had been forced upon her, that there were Northern people with whom he could gladly affiliate.
The shadow of death had not been so dark and baleful as the shadow of the past in which she
so long had dwelt, for in the former there had been light enough to reveal the folly and injustice
of indiscriminating prejudice and enmity. Worse than all these thoughts, piercing like shafts
of light the darkness which had obscured her judgment, was the truth, upon which she could
not reason, that she shrunk with an ever-increasing dread from words and acts of love unprompted
by her heart.

Like a rock, however, amid all this chaos--this breaking up of the old which left nothing stable
in its place--remained her purpose to go forward. On this evening which was to witness a wilder
chaos than that of her long-repressed yet passionate heart, she had said sternly, "My word
has been passed, my honor is involved, and he shall never learn that I have trembled and faltered."

Mrs. Hunter had retired, overcome by the heat, and, believing that she could endure the sultriness
better in the little parlor, Mara had turned down the gas, and was sitting by an open window.
The city seemed singularly quiet. The street on which she dwelt contained a large population,
yet the steps on the pavement were comparatively few. Her own languor was general, and people
sought refuge in the seclusion and the undress permitted in their own homes.

In a vague, half-conscious way she wondered that a large city could be so still at that hour.
"Like myself," she murmured, "it is half shrouded in gloom and gives but slight hint of much
that is hidden, that ever must be hidden.--I wonder where he is to-night. Oh, I've no right
to think of him at all. Why can't I say, 'Stop,' and end it?--this miserable stealing away
of my thoughts until will, like a jailer, pursues and drags them back. Why should a presentiment
of danger to him weigh down my spirit to-night? What other peril can he be exposed to except
that of marrying a beauty and an heiress? Ah! peril enough, if his heart shrinks like mine.
Here, now, quit," and the word came sharply and angrily in her self-condemnation.

Then in the silence began that distant groan of nature. It was so distinct, so unlike anything
she had ever heard in its horrible suggestion of all physical evil that she shrank from the
window overwhelmed by a nameless dread. Instinctively she turned up the gas, that she might
not face the terror in darkness. As she did so she thought of the rush and roar of the last
year's cyclone, but in the next breath learned that this was something infinitely worse--what,
she was too confused and terrified to imagine. Then she was thrown to the floor. Raising herself
partially on a chair she witnessed an event which paralyzed her with horror. The wall toward
the street, with its mirror, pictures, windows, and all pertaining to it fell outward with a crash.

For a second all was still, as she looked into the darkness which had swallowed up the front
and sheltering side of her home. Then immediately about her began a wail of human anguish which
grew in agonized intensity, gathering volume far and near until it became like the death-cry
of a city. Unconsciously she was joining in it--that involuntary "oh-h," that crescendo tidal
wave of sound sweeping upward from despairing humanity. Then this mighty and bitter cry seemed
to become articulate in the word "God." With an instinct swift, inevitable, and irresistible
as the power that had shaken the city, the thought of God as the only other power able to cope
with the mysterious destroyer, entered into all hearts and found expression.

Clouds of stifling, whitish-looking dust now came pouring into the unprotected apartment, obscuring
the street and rendering dim even the familiar objects near the terrified girl. For a few moments
the nervous shock was so great that Mara felt as if paralyzed. She remained lying on the floor,
half supporting herself by the chair, waiting in breathless expectation for she knew not what.
The malign power had been so vast, and its work so swift, that even her fearless spirit was
overwhelmed.

The shrieks, groans, and prayers, the hurrying steps in the dust-clouded street at last forced
upon her attention the fact that all were seeking to escape from the buildings. With difficulty
she regained her feet and tottered to Mrs. Hunter's room, but found, to her dismay, that she
could not open the door. She called and even shrieked, but there was no answer. A sense of
utter desolation and helplessness overpowered her. Who could come to her aid? Bodine could
not. At such a time he would be almost helpless himself, and there were women in his charge.
With a bitterness also akin to the death, which she momentarily expected, she knew that her
thoughts had flown to Clancy and to no other human being at that hour. She was learning what
all others discovered in the stress of the earthquake, that everything not absolutely essential
to life and soul was swept away and almost forgotten.

To go into the street and get help seemed her only resource, and she made her way down the
stairs to where had been the doorway. In vain she appealed to the flying forms. Her cries were
unheard in the awful din of shrieks, prayers, groans, and calls of the separated to their friends.
The impression made was of a wild panic in which the frenzied thought of flight, escape, predominated.

She was about to return in something like despair, feeling that she could not leave her aunt,
when she saw a tall form rushing toward her. A second later she recognized Owen Clancy leaping
over the ruins of her home. With a cry, she fell into his outstretched arms, faint, trembling,
yet with a sense of refuge, a thrill of exquisite joy before unknown in all her life.

"Mara, dear Mara, you are not hurt?" he asked breathlessly.

"No, oh, thank God, you have come!"

Again there was the same ominous growl, deep in the earth, which once heard could never be
mistaken, never forgotten. Lifting her up Clancy carried her swiftly from beneath the shattered
buildings to the middle of the street. She clung to him almost convulsively as the earth again
swayed and trembled beneath them, and the awful moan of nature swelled, then died away in the
distance. There was an instant of agonized, breathless suspense, then the wail of the stricken
city rose again with a deeper accent of terror, a more passionate appeal to heaven, and the
effort to escape to the wider spaces was renewed in a more headlong flight.

"Mara," said Clancy, "at this hour, when everything may be swept away in a moment, there is
nothing left for me but you and God. Will you trust me, and let me do my very best to save you?"

"Oh, Owen, Owen, God forgive me!" She uttered the words like a despairing cry, then buried
her face upon his breast.

With a dread greater than that inspired by the earthquake he thought: "Is it too late? Can
she have married Bodine?" The anguish in her tone combined with her action had revealed both
her love and its hopelessness. He said gently, yet firmly: "We must act now and quickly. Where
is Mrs. Hunter?"

Mara had apparently become speechless from grief. Without a word she turned swiftly, and taking
his hand led him toward the ruined building.

"No, stay here. It will not be safe for you to enter," and pushing her gently back he ran up
the exposed stairway, into the parlor, noticing with dismay the general wreck and the danger
Mara had run.

He found that Mara had followed him. "Oh, why will you come?" he exclaimed in deep anxiety.
"Where is she? We must get away from all this."

The sobbing girl could only point to Mrs. Hunter's door. Clancy tried it, but found it jammed,
as were so many others that night, adding to the terror of imprisoned inmates. With strength
doubled by excitement he put his shoulder against the barrier and burst it open. A ghastly
spectacle met their eyes. Mrs. Hunter lay senseless on her bed in her night-robe, which was
stained with blood. She had evidently risen to a sitting posture on the first alarm, and then
had been stunned and cut by the hurling of some heavy object against her head and neck, the
shattered mantel clock on the bed beside her showing how the injury had been done.

Mara's overwhelming distress ceased its expression at this new horror as she gasped, "Can she
be dead?"

"This is no place to discover," Clancy replied, rolling the poor woman's form in a blanket.
"Mara, dear, we must get away from this house. It may come down any moment. Snatch up wraps,
clothing, all you can lay your hands upon, and come."

Already he was staggering away with Mrs. Hunter in his arms. In a moment Mara did his bidding
and followed. Slowly and with difficulty he made his way down the tottering, broken stairway,
then across the prostrate wall to the centre of the street, now almost deserted. He looked
anxiously around, calculating that no building, if it fell, could reach them at that point,
then laid his heavy burden down, and stood panting and recovering from his exertion.

"I think we shall be as safe here as anywhere until we can reach one of the squares. Put your
hand, Mara, over Mrs. Hunter's heart, and see if it is beating."

"Yes, faintly."

"Have you stimulants in the house? Can you tell me where to find them?"

"You shall not go back there: I will go." And, as if endowed with sudden access of strength,
she sprang away. Putting his coat under Mrs. Hunter's head for a pillow he followed instantly.
"Now why do you come?" she protested.

"Because I would rather die with you, Mara, than live safely without you."

"Oh, for God's sake don't speak that way!" she replied with a sob. "Here, I have it. Come away,
quick."

As she hastily sought to cross the ruins in the street she missed her footing, and would have
fallen had not his ready arm encircled her and borne her to Mrs. Hunter's side.

"Would to God I had heeded your warning, Owen," she moaned, as she sought to give her aunt
some of the brandy, while he chafed the poor woman's wrists.

"You are not married to Bodine?" he asked, springing to his feet.

"No, but I am pledged to him. I cannot break faith and live. You must be my protector in a
double sense, protecting me against myself. As you are a Southern gentleman, help and shield me."

"You ask what is next to impossible, Mara. I can only do my best for you."

"Oh, how I have wronged you!"

"Not so greatly as I have wronged myself. I will tell you all some other time."

"No, Owen, no. We must keep apart. We must, we must indeed. Oh, oh, it would have been better
that I had died! You must harden your face and heart against me--that is the only way to help
me now."

"Never shall I harden my heart against you. Whatever comes I shall be your loyal friend."

"Oh, the cruelty of my fate--to wrong two such men!"

"Bress de Lawd! I'se fown you;" and Aun' Sheba stood before them, panting and abounding in
grateful ejaculations.

"Aun' Sheba!" cried Mara, throwing herself into the arms of her old nurse. "To think that you
should come to me through all these dangers!"

"Wot else I do, honey lam? You tink you kin be in trouble an' I ain't dar? Marse Clancy, my
'specs. Once I tinks you a far-wedder frien', but I takes it back. Lawd, Lawd! is de ole missus
dun gone?"

"No, Aun' Sheba," said Clancy. "Help us revive her, and then help me carry her to a place of
greater safety. You come like an angel of light."

"I'se rudder hebby an' brack fer'n angel, but, like de angels, we'se all got ter do a heap
ob totin' ter-night."

CHAPTER XLI

SCENES NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN

When George Houghton reached his father's room he heard Jube fairly howling in the darkness,
and the old man groaning heavily.

"Father," cried the young man, "you are not hurt?"

"Oh, George, thank God, you have again escaped! This is an earthquake, isn't it?"

"It must be, and I must take you out to some open space at once. Jube, shut up, and keep your
senses. If you don't help me I'll break your bones."

Groping about he found a match and lighted a candle.

"Oh, George, you are hurt. Your face is covered with blood!" cried Mr. Houghton.

"Slight cuts only. Come, father, there may be another shock, and it will not be safe to dress
you here. Let me wrap you in blankets, and then Jube and I will carry you to Marion Square.
I will come back for your clothes."

This they proceeded to do, Mr. Houghton meanwhile protesting, "No, George, you shall not come
back." Then he asked a moment or two later, "Why do you take me out at the side door?"

"It will be safer," George replied, not wishing to explain that the pillared and massive portico
was in ruins.

As they passed the front of the house, however, Jube groaned, "Oh, Lawd! de porch dun smashed!"

"This is awful, my boy!" ejaculated Mr. Houghton. "Oh, this dreadful city! this dreadful city!"

"The worst is over, I think. Brace up, Jube. If you are so anxious to save your life, step lively."

"Jes hear de people holler," cried Jube, trembling so he could scarcely keep his hold, and
he gave a loud, sympathetic yell himself.

"Stop that," said George sternly. "Oh, Dr. Devoe, I am so glad to see you," he added, as the
physician came running up. "You are a godsend."

"I was passing near," explained the physician, "and, being a bachelor, can think of my patients
first. Jube, if you yell again I'll cuff you. Be a man now and we'll all soon be safe."

They joined the throngs which were gathering on the square, and Mr. Houghton was tenderly placed
upon the grass. "Doctor, you and Jube will stay with him while I get articles for his comfort;"
and before his father could again interpose George was off at full speed.

"He will come out all right," said Dr. Devoe soothingly. "Never fear for George."

But when the second roll of subterranean thunder was heard, and the cries and lamentations
of the people were redoubled, the old man wrung his hands and groaned, "Oh, why did you let
him go?" After the quiver passed he sat up and strained his eyes in the direction from which
he hoped again to see his son. The house was not far away, and George soon appeared staggering
under a mattress, with bedding, clothing, and other articles essential to the comfort and safety
of his father. Jube, under the doctor's assurances, was beginning to rally from his terror,
and between them they speedily made the old man comfortable.

As George was arranging the pillows his father said, "God forgive me for being so obdurate,
my boy. I know where your thoughts are. Go and help her if you can."

With heartfelt murmured thanks the young man kissed his father, and bounded away.

Ella Bodine and her father were truly in sore trouble. A few minutes before ten, Mrs. Bodine's
delicate and enfeebled organization succumbed to the heat and closeness of the air, and she
suddenly swooned. Ella in alarm summoned her father and old Hannah, and all were engaged in
applying restoratives when they too were appalled by the hideous sound which gave such brief
and terrible warning of the disaster. The veteran, who sat by the bedside, chafing his cousin's
wrists with spirits, barely had time to get on his crutches when he was thrown violently to
the floor, while Ella, with a wild cry, fell across the bed. Then, in expectation of instant
death, they listened with an awe too great for expression to the infernal uproar, the crash
of falling objects, the groaning and grinding of the swaying house, and above all to the voice
of the deep, subterranean power which appeared to be rending the earth.

Most fortunately the gas was not extinguished, and when it was still again, Ella rushed to
her father, and exclaimed as she helped him up, "Oh, papa, what is this?"

"De Jedgmen Day," said a quivering voice.

Bodine's face was very white, but his iron nerves did not give way. "Ella," he said firmly,
"you must keep calm and do as I say. It is an earthquake. Since the house stands we may hope
to revive Cousin Sophy before taking her to the street. Come, Hannah, get up and do your best."

From her sitting posture on the floor, the old woman only answered in a low terrified monotone,
"De Jedgmen Day."

"Oh, papa, she's just crazed, and we must do everything ourselves;" and, Ella, with trembling
hands and stifled sobs, began to aid her father. "Oh, hear those awful cries in the street,"
she said after a moment. "Don't you think we should try to take cousin out?"

"If I were not so helpless!" Bodine groaned. "Hannah, wake up and help."

"De Jedgmen Day," was the only response.

"There is no use to look to her, papa. I'm strong. See, I can lift cousin, she is so light."

"No, Ella, it might injure you for life. If we could only partially revive her, and she could
help you a little--There may not be another shock."

They worked on, growing more assured as the house remained quiet. Hannah was evidently crazed
for the time being, for, deaf to all expostulations, she would not move, and kept repeating
the terrible refrain.

"O God!" said Bodine in tones of the deepest distress, "to think that I cannot go to Mara!"

"Well, papa, you can't help it. Your duty is here. May God pity and save us all!"

At last the ominous rumble began again in the distance. Ella gave her father a startled look,
and saw confirmation of her fear in his face. Old Hannah started up exclaiming, "De Lawd is
comin' now shuah. I'se gwine ter meet Him," and she rushed away.

With another wild cry Ella lifted the form of her cousin in her arms, and, with a strength
created by the emergency, staggered down the stairs to the door. Then a man saw and relieved
her of her burden. Bodine with difficulty tried to follow, but could not during the brief shock.
When all was still again he threw the bedding over his shoulder, went down and speedily checked
Ella's wild cries that he should not delay.

The street was comparatively wide; the houses were not high, and they found themselves in the
midst of a group of refugees like themselves--mothers sobbing over their babes, men caring
for sick and fainting wives, and children standing by feeble and aged parents. Family servants
crouched on the pavement beside their employers, and continually gave utterance to ejaculatory
prayers which found sympathetic echoes in the stoutest hearts. Many were coming and going.
The place seemed a partial refuge, yet the proximity of houses led one group after another
to seek the open squares. In many instances rare fortitude and calmness were displayed. Here,
as elsewhere throughout the city, frail women, more often than strong men, were patient and
resigned in their Christian faith.

Ella supported Mrs. Bodine's head upon her lap, and others now aided in the effort to bring
back consciousness. Fortunately, however, for the poor lady, she knew not what was passing.

Suddenly the group parted to make way for a hatless, coatless man, whose face was terribly
disfigured with blood and dust. Nevertheless Ella recognized him with the glad cry, "Mr. Houghton!"

"Thank Heaven you are safe!" he gasped, panting heavily; and he gave his hand to Mr. Bodine.

"But you are injured," said the captain, in deep solicitude.

"No, nothing worth mentioning; merely cut and bruised. I came as soon as I had fixed my father
safe in the square. I thought you might need help."

"Mr. Houghton, you are overwhelming us--"

"Please don't think and talk that way. God knows, a man should give help where it is most needed
at such a time. This is Mrs. Bodine?"

"Yes, she fainted before the first shock. We have been unable to revive her. At the last shock
my daughter carried her down."

"Miss Bodine!" exclaimed George in surprise and admiration.

She gave him a swift glance through her tears, and then, dropping her eyes, resumed her efforts
to revive her cousin.

"You may well exclaim," said her father. "How she did it I do not know. Excitement gave strength,
I suppose."

"Everything these kind friends and I can do for her seems useless," Ella faltered.

"Let me get my wind a little," said George, eagerly, "and I will carry her to the square, where
my father is. A good physician is with him."

At this instant came a third and severer shock than the last, and with it the new terror which
sickened the bravest. "O God," cried Ella, "will there be no respite?" Then observing for the
first time the pillars of light and smoke rising at different points, she cried in still deeper
fear, "Oh, papa, can those be volcanic fires?"

"No, no, my child."

"I saw a fire kindling in a deserted house as I came," George added excitedly. "Truly, Captain
Bodine, this is no place for your family; or," turning to the groups near, "for you either,
friends. Ah, see! there is a house almost opposite beginning to burn. Come;" and without further
hesitation he lifted Mrs. Bodine and strode away.

Not only Ella and her father followed, but also the others, those who were the strongest supporting
the feeble and injured.

They had gone but little way before Bodine said, "Ella, I must go and see if Mara has escaped.
I cannot seek safety myself unless assured that she is safe."

"Oh, papa, it will be almost suicide for you to go through these streets alone."

"Ella, there are some things so much worse than death. If you and cousin were alone I would
not leave you, but with a strong helper and a physician in prospect I must go. How could I
look Mara in the face again if I made no effort in her behalf? Explain to Mr. Houghton."

He dropped behind, then turned up a side street and carefully yet quickly halted over and around
the impediments strewn in the way.

Aware of the danger of delay, George went forward with a rapid stride. "Can you keep up?" he asked.

"Yes," Ella replied.

"We must get by and beyond these higher buildings. I have the horrible dread that they may
fall on you any moment."

"You never seem to think of yourself, Mr. Houghton."

"I must now," he said after a moment or two. "Here is a corner at which we can rest, for there
are no high buildings near;" and he sank on the ground with Mrs. Bodine still in his arms.

"Oh, you are killing yourself!" she cried in deep distress.

"Not at all, only resting. Where is your father?"

Ella explained and revealed her fears.

"I will go to his aid and Miss Wallingford's as soon as you and Mrs. Bodine are safe."

"Mr. Houghton, how can I--"

"By giving me the privilege of serving you, and by not making me miserable from seeing you
burdened with a sense of obligation," he said quickly. "That is the one thing I have feared--that
you would be unhappy because it has been my good-fortune--oh, well, you understand."

She did, better than he, for his swift coming to her aid had banished all doubt of him.

"Please understand, then, that I gratefully and gladly accept your chivalrous help. Have I
not seen it given to the old and feeble before? Oh, these heart-rending cries! It seems to
me that they will haunt me forever."

"Please support Mrs. Bodine a moment. That is a woman's scream just beyond us. She is evidently
injured, and probably held fast in the ruins."

He ran to the spot, and found that a woman had been prostrated and partially buried by the
bricks of a falling chimney. She had been unconscious for a time, but now, reviving, her agonized
shrieks rose above the other cries. George spoke soothingly to her as he threw the bricks to
right and left. She was evidently suffering the extremity of pain, for she again screamed and
moaned in the most heart-rending way, although George lifted her as carefully as possible.
Laying her down beside Mrs. Bodine he began in distressed perplexity, "What shall we do now?
We cannot leave her here."

At this moment a group of negroes approached. One was carrying a little girl whom Ella immediately
recognized as Vilet. Then she saw Sissy, the mother, carrying her youngest, and weeping hysterically,
while the other children clung to her skirts. Uncle Sheba brought up the rear, fairly howling
in his terror. The man carrying the child was Mr. Birdsall, who had called with old Tobe just
before the first shock. The gray-woolled negro was walking beside his minister, uttering petitions
and self-accusations. Old Tobe was comparatively alone in the world, without kith or kin. Mr.
Birdsall, feeling that he owed almost an equal duty to his flock, had only stipulated that
he should stop at his home for his wife and children. Happily they were unharmed, and were
able to follow unaided; and so, like a good shepherd, he still carried the weakest of his lambs.

Ella called to them, and they paused. George, ever prompt in action, saw that old Tobe and
Uncle Sheba were able to do more than use their lungs, and he sprang forward to press them
into his service. Tobe readily yielded, but Uncle Sheba would do nothing but howl. In his impatience
George struck him a sharp blow across the mouth, exclaiming, "Stop your infernal noise. If
you are strong enough to yell that way you can do something better. Stop, I say, or I'll be
worse than two earthquakes;" and he shook Uncle Sheba's howl into staccato and tremolo notes.

"Dere am no use foolin' wid dat niggah," said old Tobe.

"Howl, then, if you will, but help you shall;" and taking him by his shoulder, George pushed
him beside Tobe, made the two form a chair with their hands, and put the woman into it, with
her arms about the neck of each.

Taking up Mrs. Bodine he again went forward. The miserable little procession followed, Uncle
Sheba mechanically doing his part, at the same time continuing to make night hideous by the
full use of a pair of lungs in which was no rheumatic weakness. Motion caused the wretched
woman renewed agony, and her shrieks mingled with his stentorian cries.

"Oh, this is horrible!" Ella said at George's side.

"It is indeed, Miss Bodine; yet how glad I am that you Have not been injured!"

"Oh, oh, I fear so greatly that my cousin will not live through this dreadful night; and my
father, too, is facing unknown dangers!"

"This is an awful ill wind, Miss Bodine, but the fact that I can help you and yours gives me
a deeper satisfaction than you can imagine."

She could not trust herself to answer, therefore was silent, and his thought was, "I must go
slower on that tack, and not so close to the wind." The forlorn company eventually reached
the square, and made their way to the place where George had left his father. As the old man
saw his son, and comprehended his mission of mercy as well as love, he murmured, "God forgive
me that it should require an earthquake to teach how much better is his spirit than mine,"
and his heart grew as tender as a mother's toward his boy.

Dr. Devoe, who was attending another patient not far away, came up hastily and eased the poor
creature out of the negroes' hands to the ground.

He gave her some of the wine George had brought for his father, saying as he did so, "Try to
be calm, now, madam. I am a physician, and will do all I can for you."

Mr. Houghton promptly sent Jube to the doctor with one of his pillows and part of his bedding,
so the woman was made as comfortable as her condition permitted.

George laid Mrs. Bodine on the grass, and then with the scanty bedding Ella had carried, aided
in making a resting-place not far from his father. He next lifted Mrs. Bodine's head into the
girl's lap, and was about to turn his attention to Uncle Sheba, but was anticipated. Two men
had taken him by the shoulders, one of them saying, "If you don't keep still we'll tie you
under the nearest building and leave you there," and they began to march him off. At this dire
threat Uncle Sheba collapsed and fell to the ground, where he was left.

Dr. Devoe divided his attention between the fatally injured woman and Mrs. Bodine, who under
his remedies and the efforts of George and Ella soon revived. Mr. Houghton looked with wonder,
pity, and some embarrassment at the small, frail form, and the white, thin face of one whom
had characterized as "that terrible old woman." She seemed scarcely a shadow of what she had
been on that former night, more terrible even that this one to the then stricken father. Now
the son whom he had thought dead had carried her to his side, and was bending over her.

"Well, well," he muttered, "the ways of God are above and beyond me. I give up, I give up."

Then his eyes rested on Ella. He saw a face which even the dust of the streets could not so
begrime as to hide its sweetness or its tenderness, as, with deep solicitude, she bent over
her cousin. A conflagration raging near now began to flame so high that its lights flickered
on the girl's face, etherealizing its beauty, and turning her fluffy hair to gold. She became
like a vision to the old man, angelic, yet human in her natural sympathy. The thought would
come, "I have fought like a demon to keep that face from bending over me in my feebleness and
age. Truly God's ways are best."

Ella had only glanced at his pale, rugged face with awe and dread, and then had given all her
thoughts to her cousin.

As the latter began to regain consciousness, she motioned George away, and with Dr. Devoe,
sought to complete the work of restoration. To dazed looks and confused questions she replied
merely with soothing words until the doctor said kindly, but firmly, "Mrs. Bodine, you are
now safe, and as comfortable as we can make you. Do not try to comprehend what has happened.
There are so many worse off who need attention--"

"There, there, doctor," Mrs. Bodine interrupted, with a flash of her old spirit, "no matter
what's happened, I thank you for your attention. Please give it now to others."

"Doctor," said George, "I fear the little colored girl who came in with us is dying." They
went to the spot where Sissy was pillowing Vilet's head against her breast. The physician made
a brief examination, and heard how a brick had fallen on the child as they were getting her
out, then said, "I'm sorry I can do nothing but alleviate her pain a little."

Turning away promptly he began, "See here, Houghton, I must go to the nearest drug-store and
help myself if no one's there. Will you come with me? I shall need a lot of things, more than
I can carry."

"I can't," George replied, "but here is the man that will, I think;" and he roused old Tobe
who sat quietly near with his head buried in his hands.

"Sartin. I do wot I kin while de can'el hole out to burn," Tobe assented rising.

"That's right, my man, and you'll help other candles to hold out."

"Doctor, understand me," explained George, "I must go and search for Captain Bodine, who is
wandering on crutches about the city," and he hastened to say a word to his father.

Ella saw him kneel by the old man, and then rise after a moment or two with such gladness in
his face that even the blood and dust stains could not disguise it. Little wonder, for Mr.
Houghton had said, "I'm conquered, George. I give all up--all my ambitious dreams about you.
What dreams they now seem! This awful earthquake has shaken away everything except life, and
the love which makes life worth anything. I've seen the girl, and I don't blame you. Go ahead."

"Oh, thanks, thanks. You'll never be sorry; but, father, please don't say anything to her about--about--Well,
she don't know, and I must woo before I can hope to win."

"You needn't worry about me. I'm old enough to be wary," and the old man could not repress
a grim smile. Then he added, "George, for mercy's sake, try to get the blood and dust off your
face and find a coat. You look as if you had been through a prize-fight."

George explained the quest he was about to enter upon, and promised caution. Then he approached
Ella. "Miss Bodine," he said, "I will now search for your father till I find him."

Again the girl could not trust herself to speak, but tears came into her eyes as she gave him
her hand. He pressed it so hard as to leave a delicious ache, and hastened away.

"Good Lor! who was that awful-looking man?" Mrs. Bodine asked Ella.

"George Houghton. He carried you from home here."

"Lor! Lor! Saved my life as well as yours and Cousin Hugh's?"

"Yes, and now he's going to help papa and Mara."

"Well, well, we'll have to forgive him for being born North. Is that old--"

Ella stopped her mouth with a kiss, and whispered: "That is his father. Don't let us look at
him. In fact, I'm afraid to--at least while he is so ill."

"Well," ejaculated Mrs. Bodine, "if this earthquake does not cure him of his cussedness, I
hope the Lord will take him to heaven."

"He did not prevent George from coming to me, nor his going to papa's aid. He was kind, too,
to that poor woman yonder. Oh, I'm sorry for her, and I wish I could do something."

"Perhaps you can. Go and see."

"I've nothing to put under your head, cousin."

"I'll put patience under it. That, I reckon, is all I have left now. Go, Ella, dear, I can't
bear to hear her moan. I'm in no pain, and that wine has quite heartened me."

Ella did as she was bidden. That Mr. Houghton was observant was quickly proved, for he said
to Jube, "Take this pillow to that lady yonder. If she declines, say you have your orders,
and leave it."

Mrs. Bodine raised herself on her elbow and protested.

"Madam," said Mr. Houghton, "do not deny a helpless man the privilege of doing a little for
the comfort of others at a time like this."

"But you have none left for yourself, sir," Mrs. Bodine replied.

"Madam, you can understand what a satisfaction that will be to me under the circumstances."

Mrs. Bodine yielded and admitted to herself that she was much more comfortable. "I reckon the
earthquake is doing him good," she thought, "and that the Lord better keep him here a while
longer."

"Can't you lift me up a little?" gasped the injured woman to Ella. "Oh, how I suffer, suffer!"

Ella sat down beside her, and gently shifted the pillow so that it came under the wounded back,
while the weary head rested against her bosom.

"Ah!" said the poor creature, "that's easier. I reckon I won't have to suffer much longer."

Ella spoke soothingly and gently. Mr. Houghton, who could only hear the sweet tenderness of
her tones, wiped tears from his eyes as he again murmured, "God forgive me, blind, obstinate
old fool that I've been!"

The adjacent flames now lighted up the entire scene, throwing their baleful light on such an
assemblage as had never before gathered in this New World.

The convulsion which threatened to raze every home in the city had certainly brought the people
down to the same level. Both white and colored citizens were mingled together on the square
in a swiftly created democracy. Character, the noble qualities of the soul, without regard
to color or previous condition, now only gave distinction.

CHAPTER XLII

A HOMELESS CITY

The efforts of Clancy and Mara combined with the vigorous and sensible ministrations of Aun'
Sheba at last brought consciousness to Mrs. Hunter. Tearing up a linen sheet they stanched
and bound up her wounds, and then Clancy said, "We must get her to one of the squares and under
a physician's care as soon as possible."

"My folks is gwine to Mar'on Squar, an' dar I promise ter come," said Aun' Sheba. "It's 'bout
as nigh as any ob dem."

Mrs. Hunter looked at Clancy, and shrank from him visibly. He said quickly, "Surely, Mrs. Hunter,
all enmities should be forgotten at this time, or at least put aside. We should leave this
narrow side-street at once."

"Aunty," said Mara, gently, "Mr. Clancy has saved us both from destruction. For my sake and
Aun' Sheba's as well as your own, you must let him do all in his power."

The earthly, yet unearthly, rumble of another shock put an end to further hesitation. It would
be long before the terror inspired by this phenomenon would cease to be overwhelming.

Aun' Sheba lifted her arms imploringly to heaven, while the vivid consciousness of the direst
peril known brought Mara and Clancy together again in an embrace that was the natural expression
of the feeling that, if die they must, they would die together. With such black ruin about
them, caused by one shock, the fear could not be combated that the next might end everything.

When the convulsion passed, Clancy and Aun' Sheba immediately formed a chair with their hands,
and Mara helped Mrs. Hunter, now ready enough to escape by any means, to avail herself of it.
They made their way with difficulty over the debris to King Street. Here they were obliged
to pause and rest. No rest, however, did Clancy obtain, for a momentary glance revealed one
of the awful phases of the disaster. Three or four doors above them, houses were burning from
overturned and exploded lamps. Some of the shop-keepers were frantically endeavoring to save
a few of their goods, often, in their excitement, carrying out the strangest and most valueless
articles. Clancy's brief glance gave no heed to such efforts, but before he could turn away,
a woman with a child in her arms came rushing from one of the burning houses. Her dress had
touched the fire, and was beginning to burn. Clancy caught one of the blankets from Mara, and
with it extinguished the flames, while Mara took the infant. The instant the babe was out of
her arms the mother tried to break away and rush back, shrieking, "There's another! there's
another child!"

"Where?" cried Clancy, restraining her.

"In the front room there."

"Stay here, then," and he darted through the doorway, out of which the smoke was pouring as
from a chimney.

Mara and the mother looked after him in breathless and agonized suspense. The flames had burst
suddenly into the apartment, and through the windows they could see him enter, snatch up the
child, and disappear. But he did not come out of the street door as soon as they expected.
They could endure waiting no longer. Both dashed into the smoke-clouded passage-way, and stumbled
against Clancy Where he had sunk down within a few steps of safety.

The mother seized her child, while Mara, with a strength given by her heart, dragged the strangling
man to the open air. By this time Aun' Sheba was at her side, and between them they carried
him to the spot where Mrs. Hunter lay. Now that he could breathe he soon recovered; Mara's
tender and imploring words being potent indeed in rallying him. His exposure to heat and the
smoke had been terrible, but fortunately very brief. He was soon on his feet, exclaiming, "We
must go on to Meeting Street, for there we shall have a better chance."

Thither they made their way with other fugitives, Clancy and Aun' Sheba carrying Mrs. Hunter
as before, Mara following with the infant, and close beside her the grateful mother with the
other child.

Having reached a somewhat open space in the wider thoroughfare, the young man became satisfied
that another mode of transportation must be found. Mrs. Hunter was too heavy for the primitive
method adopted in the emergency. Aun' Sheba took the injured woman's head upon her lap while
he rested and looked about for something like an army stretcher. Among the ruins he found one
of the long wooden shutters which a jeweller had placed against his window hours before. Watches
and gems gleamed in the light of kindling fires, and were within easy reach, but the most unscrupulous
of thieves were honest that night. Clancy carried the shutter to Mrs. Hunter's side, and then
watched for some man whom he could persuade into his service.

The great thoroughfare was full of fugitives, and soon among them the mother recognized a man
of her acquaintance, who took charge of her and the children. The majority, like Clancy, had
been delayed by efforts in behalf of the sick or injured, and already had their hands full.
Others were so dazed and horror-stricken that they moved about aimlessly, or sat upon the pavement,
moaning and lamenting in despairing accents. It would appear as if the emergency developed
the strength and the weakness of every mind. Some were evidently crazed. As Mara stood beside
Mrs. Hunter to prevent the crowd from trampling upon her, she saw a half-dressed man, breaking
his way through the throng. The maniac stopped before her, and for a moment fixed upon her
wild, blood-shot eyes, then placed an infant in her arms, and with a yell bounded away. Mara,
horror-stricken, saw that the child was dead, and that its neck was evidently broken. Clancy
came up immediately, and taking the infant laid it down out of the central path, for all kept
to the middle of the street.

As he did so, he heard his name called by a voice he knew too well. The feeling it inspired
compelled him again to recognize how false he had been to himself and also to Miss Ainsley.
Her summons now brought the feeling that he too, like Mara, was bound, and he went instantly
to her side.

"Ah, you deserted me!" she said bitterly.

He silently pointed to Mrs. Hunter, who presented so sad a spectacle that even the exacting
girl had no further words of reproach, but she glanced keenly at Mara.

"We feared a tidal wave," Mr. Willoughby explained, "and so decided to seek the upper portion
of the city."

"Mrs. Willoughby, if you are able to walk," said Clancy, "your husband must aid me and Aun'
Sheba in carrying Mrs. Hunter, who is very badly injured."

"Oh, now that the first terrible shock to my nerves is over, I am as well able to take care
of myself as any of you," replied the spirited little woman.

"That's like you!" exclaimed Clancy heartily. Then turning, he said with emphasis, "Miss Ainsley,
you see that a man's first duty to-night is to the injured and utterly helpless."

"Forgive me," she replied in tones meant for his ear only, "I did not know you owed so much
to Mrs. Hunter and her niece."

"I shall owe my services to every injured man and woman until all are rescued," was his quiet
reply. Then he helped Mr. Willoughby place Mrs. Hunter on the improvised support, and between
them they bore her onward, the others following.

Their progress was necessarily slow, for the street was encumbered not only with fugitives
like themselves, but also with tangled telegraph-wires and all sorts of other impediments.
Once they had to cower tremblingly under a tall building while a fire-engine thundered by,
threatening to bring down upon them the shattered walls. As they resumed their slow and painful
march Bodine met them, his glad, outspoken greeting to Mara filling her heart with new grief
and dismay, while it allayed the jealousy and bitterness of Miss Ainsley's wounded pride.

The Northern girl had heard the report that Mara and the veteran were engaged, and here was
confirmation. Mara inquired eagerly after Mrs. Bodine and Ella, then took her place at the
captain's side, while Clancy moved on with set teeth and a desperate rallying of his physical
powers, which he knew to be failing.

Now that Ella was in the square, young Houghton was not so impetuous as to ignore the claims
of nature or to be regardless of his outward appearance. He again returned to his home, and
saw Sam kneeling and praying aloud near the barn, with the two horses standing beside him.

"Sam, go to the square," he shouted.

"Can't lebe dese hosses. Dey's bofe lookin' ter me, an' I'se prayin' fer dem an us all."

"No matter about the horses. The house is too near." Then he ventured into the butler's pantry,
cleansed his face and the cuts and bruises about his head, snatched some food, and hastened
away. He believed he had a hard night's work before him, and that he must maintain his strength.
He had not gone very far down Meeting Street before he met the group accompanying Mrs. Hunter.
With a glad cry he welcomed Mrs. Willoughby, and was about to take her hand when Clancy said,
"Houghton, for God's sake, quick!"

George caught the end of the litter while Clancy reeled backward and would have fallen had
not Mara, with a cry she could not repress, caught him in her arms and sunk with him to the
pavement. He gasped a moment or two, then his eyes closed; he became still and looked as if dead.

Again the supremely dreaded subterranean rumble was heard. Mr. Willoughby shouted wildly, "Forward,
quick! We can't stay here under these buildings." He and Houghton went on with a rush, the
rest following with loud cries, Miss Ainsley's piercing scream ringing out above all. She did
not even look back at her prostrate suitor.

Mara paid no heed to the passing shock, but with eyes full of anguish looked upon the white
face in her lap.

"Mara," said the deep voice of Bodine after the awful sound had passed. She started violently
and began to tremble.

"Mara, go with the others. I will stay with Mr. Clancy."

She shook her head, but was speechless.

He stood beside her, his face full of deep and perplexed trouble.

At last she said hoarsely, "You go and bring aid. He saved aunty and me, and I cannot leave him."

At this moment Aun' Sheba came running back, exclaiming: "Good Lawd forgib me dat I should
leab my honey lam'! My narbes all shook out ob jint like de houses, an' my legs run away wid
me, dog gone 'em! Dey's brung me back howsomeber. Now, Missy Mara, gib him ter me;" and taking
him under the arms she dragged him by the adjacent tall buildings. "Missy," she added, sinking
down with her burden, "go on ter de squar wid Marse Bodine, an' tell dat ar young Houghton
ter come quick, 'fore my legs run away wid me agin." "Both of you go to the square," commanded
Bodine in the tone he would have used on the battlefield. "I will stay. There shall be no useless
risk of life."

Mara lifted her dark eyes to his face. Even at that moment he knew he should never forget their
expression. "My friend," she said in low, agonized tones, "he may be dying, he may be dead.
I cannot, will not leave him."

"No, he ain't dead," said Aun' Sheba, with her hand over Clancy's heart, "but seems purty nigh
it. Him jes gone beyon his strengt. Ole missus po'ful heby ef she ain't fat like me. Tank de
Lawd, I hasn't ter be toted ter-night. No one but Kern ud tote me. Po' Kern! him heart jes
break wen he know."

Bodine stood guard silent and grim while Mara mechanically chafed one of Clancy's hands. She
was now far beyond tears, far beyond anything except the anguish depicted in her face. In a
confused way she felt that the terrible events of the night and her own heart had overpowered
her; and, with a half-despairing recklessness, she merely lived from moment to moment.

The earthquake had ceased to have personal terrors for Bodine. He had faced death too often.
Nevertheless a great fear oppressed him as he looked down upon the girl he loved.

The square was not far away; Houghton and Mr. Willoughby came hastening back, and Clancy was
soon added to the group of sufferers under Dr. Devoe's care.

To Miss Ainsley's general disgust at a city in which she had been treated to such a rude and
miserable experience, was added a little self-disgust that she had rushed away and left Clancy
to his fate. She tried to satisfy herself by thinking that he had acted in much the same way
toward her, but it would not answer. Mrs. Hunter's blood-stained face, rendered tenfold more
ghastly by the light of the flames, was too strong refutation, and the fact that Mara had remained
with Clancy had its sting. She saw Ella and many others ministering to the injured and feeble,
and felt that she must redeem her character. When the unconscious man was brought in, therefore,
she hastened forward to receive and in a measure claim him.

Although mentally comparing her conduct with that of Mara, Houghton and Mr. Willoughby thought
it was all right, put Clancy in her charge, and began to follow Dr. Devoe's directions. Mara
gave the girl a look which brought a blush to her face, and then devoted herself to her aunt.

Captain Bodine's first act was to speak gently and encouragingly to his daughter and cousin,
congratulating the latter on her recovery.

"Yes, Hugh," said the old lady, "I'm safe, safer than I've been at other times in my life.
This is but one more storm, and it is only driving me nearer the harbor. You look dreadfully;
you're worn out."

"More by anxiety than exertion. It is awful to be so helpless at such a time."

"Sit down here on the grass beside me. I want to talk. I may not have much more chance in this
world, but feel sure that I shall do my share in the next. Oh, Hugh, Hugh, we've all been shaken
like naughty children, and some of us may be the better and the wiser for it. If Ella and that
gallant knight of hers survive, how happy they will be! It makes me happy even to think of
it, though for aught we know the earth may open and swallow us all within the next five minutes."

"Yes, the dear child! Thank God for her sake!"

"For your own too. There is Mara safe also. Poor Mrs. Hunter! she looks death-like to me. You
look awfully too. I never saw you so pale and haggard."

"Cap'n Bodine, Marse Houghton send you dis," said Jube at his elbow, proffering a glass of wine.

The captain turned his startled eyes upon his old employer, who lay just out of earshot of
their low tones.

"Take it, Hugh," said his cousin earnestly. "Drink to the death of hate. He and I have made up."

The veteran hesitated, and a spasm, as if from a wrench of pain, passed over his face. Then
he took the glass, and said coldly, "I drink to your recovery, sir."

"I thank you," was Mr. Houghton's response.

"A very fair beginning, Hugh, for a man," his cousin resumed. "You might as well give up at
once, though. Everything is going to be shaken down that shouldn't stand."

Ominous words to the veteran, for he felt that his dream of happiness was falling in ruins.

By the natural force of circumstances the several characters of our story had been brought
comparatively near together, yet were separated into little groups. Dr. Devoe passed from one
to the other as his services were needed, nor were they confined to those known to us. He simply
made a little open space beside Mr. Houghton his headquarters, where he left his remedies under
the charge of the invalid, Jube, and old Tobe. Other physicians had joined him and were indefatigable
in the work of relief. Some of the city clergy were also in the square, speaking words of Christian
faith and hope, which never before had seemed so precious.

To Clancy Dr. Devoe gave a good deal of attention. Not only was his hair singed, but his neck
and hands were badly burned, and his swoon was so obstinate as to indicate great exhaustion.
This could scarcely be otherwise, for he possessed no such physique as young Houghton had developed.
Moreover, he had passed through a mental strain and excitement which no one could comprehend
except Mara, and she but partially. Houghton had put his coat under the head of the unconscious
man, and was doing his best for him. So also was Miss Ainsley now. She had purposely turned
her back on Mara, and her face was toward the adjacent conflagration, which distinctly lighted
up her face and form, transforming her into a vision of marvellous beauty. Her long hair had
fallen in a golden veil over her bare shoulders and neck; her dark eyes were lustrous with
excitement and full of solicitude. When at last Clancy opened his eyes his first impression
was that an angel was ministering to him in a light too brilliant to be earthly. He recognized
Miss Ainsley's voice, however, and when he had taken some of the wine which the doctor pressed
to his lips, all that had happened came back to him. George now returned in solicitude to his
father, also designing to take a little much-needed rest, while the doctor gave his attention
to other patients. With returning consciousness Clancy was overpowered by a deep sense of gratitude
to this beautiful creature, and also by a strong feeling of compunction that he had sought
the regard which she now seemed to bestow unstintedly. "Like Mara," he thought, "there is nothing
left for me but to fulfil obligations from which I cannot honorably withdraw."

"You are indeed kind and devoted," he said feebly. "I fear I have made a good deal of trouble."

"No, Mr. Clancy, you have gone beyond your strength. In fact, we are all distracted and half
beside ourselves. Won't you let me take your head into my lap? If I am caring for you I can
better endure these awful scenes." And she made the change.

"I hope you will forgive me for leaving you so abruptly on the Battery. Mrs. Hunter and Miss
Wallingford really had no one to look to."

"Captain Bodine evidently thinks Miss Wallingford should look to him."

"In such an emergency he would be even more helpless than she."

"Oh, well, I hope the worst is now over for us all, and that we can soon get away from this
awful town."

He gave no answer. Miss Ainsley knew that her father was not far distant, and that he would
come for her by the first train which could reach the city. Accustomed all her life to look
at everything from the central point of self, she now, in the greater sense of safety, began
to give some thought to the future. Her first conscious decision was to try to be as brave
as possible, and so leave a good impression. The second was to get away from the city at once,
and she hoped she might never see it again. If Clancy would go with her, if he would even eventually
join her at the North, she believed that she could marry him, so favorable was the impression
that he had made, but she felt that she was making a great concession, which he must duly appreciate.
At present the one consuming wish was to escape, to get away from scenes which to her were
horrible in the last degree.

In truth only a brave spirit could witness what was taking place on every side, or maintain
fortitude under the overwhelming impression of personal danger--an impression which soon banished
the partial sense of security felt after reaching the square. The extent of the terror inspired
by the earthquake can best be measured by the fact that although columns of smoke and fire,
consuming homes and threatening to lay the city in ashes, were rising at several points, they
were scarcely heeded. The roar of adjacent flames could even be heard by the vast concourse,
but ears were strained to detect that more terrible roar that seemed to come from unknown depths
beneath the ocean and the land, and to threaten a fate as awful and mysterious as itself. Even
many of the white population could not help sharing in some degree the general belief among
the negroes that the end of all things was at hand. The nervous shock sustained by all prepared
the way for the wildest fears and conjectures. As in the instance of a bloody battle, those
were the best off who were the most occupied.

Thousands, however, sat and waited in sickening apprehension, fearing some new horror with
every passing moment. There was a sound of weeping throughout the square, while above this
monotone rose groans, cries, hysterical screams, loud petitions for mercy, and snatches of
hymns. The emotional negroes left no moments of silence. The majority of the white people had
become comparatively calm. They talked in low tones, encouraging and soothing one another;
the lips of even those who seldom looked heavenward now often moved in silent prayer; fathers,
on whose brows rested a heavy load of care, tried to cheer their trembling families; and mothers
clasped their sobbing children in their arms, with the feeling that even death should not part
them.

Over all this array of pallid, haggard faces, shone the flames of the still unquenched conflagration.

CHAPTER XLIII

"THE TERROR BY NIGHT"

When Aun' Sheba saw that Mara, Mrs. Hunter, and Clancy were among friends, with a physician
in attendance, she sat down by her daughter Sissy, and took little Vilet in her lap.

"I kin'er feel," she said, "dat ef de yearth is gwine ter swaller us, I'se like ter go down
wid dis chile. Vilet shuah to go up ag'in, an' p'raps de Lawd ud say, 'You kin come too, Aun'
Sheba.'"

The sound of her voice so far restored Uncle Sheba to his normal condition that he was able
to creep on his hands and knees to a position just behind his wife, where he crouched as if
she were a sort of general protection.

Vilet, roused at her grandmother's voice, looked around, and then asked in her plaintive voice,
"Whar's daddy?"

"He's hep'n' put'n' out de fiahs, deah chile."

"My bref gittin' bery sho't, granny. I can't stay dis side ob de riber much longer; I wants
ter see daddy 'fore I go."

"Po' chile and po' Kern," groaned Aun' Sheba. "We doesn't know whar he be, an' I'se 'feerd
he couldn't lebe off puttin' out de fiahs."

From time to time Vilet wailed, "Daddy, come, come quick. I'se gwine fas, an' I wants to see
you onst mo'."

Captain Bodine heard the cry, and, having rested himself a little, came to Aun' Sheba and asked,
"Do you know where Kern is?"

"I doan, Marse Cap'n, but he mought be at dis nighest fiah."

"I'll see," said the veteran, halting away with the feeling that he must do something to divert
his torturing thoughts.

Watson was soon pointed out to him, where with stern and quiet face he was carrying out his
orders. When told that Vilet was near and calling for him, the veins came out on his forehead,
and for a moment he was irresolute. Then he cried, "No, sah, I can't go. Fo' de Lawd, ef she
die an' we all die I won't lebe my duty."

"You're a man," said Bodine, clapping him on the shoulder, "I will arrange this."

He went direct to Kern's superior officer and briefly told him the circumstances, then added,
"I know these people. Watson deserves consideration. I will take his place. I can hold the
hose as well as he, and will stand as near the fire as he does if you will order him to go
to his dying child for a few minutes."

"In that case I can comply," said the officer. "Watson has behaved splendidly, and he'll come
back soon."

The first thing Kern knew, the hose was taken from his hand, and he ordered to go and return
within ten minutes. He hesitated. "Obey orders," was the stern command. Then he rushed away.

The plaintive cry, "Daddy, daddy," guided him, and Vilet was in his arms.

"Chile, deah chile!" was all he could say as he kissed the thin face again and again.

"Now my min's at res'," said the little girl, with a sigh of ineffable content. "You 'member,
daddy--you says--'Yes, Vilet.'--I'se a-goin', daddy. De angels--is all ready--to tote me to
Heben. I kin jes' heah dere wings--rustlin' roun' me. I was jes' waitin'--an' hol'n back--ter
see you onst mo'. Good-by, moder--granny."

Then she feebly wound her little arms about Kern's neck and whispered, "Good-by, daddy, fer
jes' a lil while. I'se wait neah de gate fer you shuah."

It would seem that she put all her remaining strength into this effort, for her head fell over
on his shoulder; she quivered a moment, then was still. Kern could not repress one deep groan.
He looked for a moment of agony into his child's face, kissed it, then placing her in Ann'
Sheba's lap, departed as swiftly as he came. Sissy was so overcome as to be helpless.

"Your time wasn't up," said the veteran.

"Her time was up, Cap'n Bodine," Kern managed to reply, his face rigid with repressed emotion.
"She die in my arms. God bless yo' fer you'se feelins fer a po' man."

"Watson, I do feel for you and with you. Our hearts are all breaking to-night. Take care of
yourself. You have a wife and children still to live for." And Bodine halted back and seated
himself by his cousin.

Alas! for thousands the words of Bodine were only too true. As they contemplated what had happened
and what might occur at any moment, they felt that heavy, crushing pain, unlike all others,
which gathers at the heart, overwhelming the spirit and threatening physical dissolution at
one and the same time.

Yet such is the power of human affection and Christian faith, that they won many triumphs,
even during that night of horrors. In Ella and the dying woman, whose head she pillowed on
her breast, were examples of both. The girl's heart was indeed pitiful and sympathetic, and
the poor creature knew that it was, for in broken, gasping words she told her brief, pathetic
story, so like that of many other women in the South. Once she was a happy girl at home on
a small plantation, but father, brothers, and lover had all perished in the war. Home and mother
had since been lost and she was fighting out life's long, weary battle when this final disaster
brought the end. "Yes, kind lady, I reckon I'm dying: I hope so. I couldn't take care of myself
any longer, and I'd rather join those who have gone on before me than trust to the charity
of this world. I am very weary, very heavy laden, and I'd rather go to Him who said, 'Come
to Me.' If you can stay with me a little longer--I don't fear, but it's very sweet to have
human kindness and company down into the dark valley."

Her words proved true. She evidently perished from internal injuries, for she soon ceased to
gasp, and her head lay still against the bosom of the sobbing girl.

Dr. Devoe was present during the last moments, then gently relieved Ella from her lifeless
burden, and supported her to her father on whose shoulder she shed those natural tears which
soon bring relief to the hearts of the young. George Houghton and Jube carried the body to
the place set apart for the dead. Then George returned to his father's side, but looked wistfully
at Ella with an unspeakable longing to comfort her.

"I don't wonder, my boy," said Mr. Houghton, interpreting his thoughts. "Go and speak to her."

George approached timidly, and said, "Miss Bodine."

She started, raised her head, and began to wipe her eyes.

"I--I--Well, I don't know what to say to make you understand how my father and I have sympathized
with your brave--Well, you were so kind and patient with that poor woman. I wish I could do
something for you, and I will," and he hastened away.

She called, "I don't need anything, Mr. Houghton. Indeed I do not. It would only distress me--"
But he was out of hearing. "Oh," she moaned again on her father's shoulder, "why will he take
risks?"

It was evident that Mr. Houghton shared her anxiety, for he divined his son's purpose, and
looked with troubled face for his return. He soon came back carrying another mattress, pillows
and blankets. Sam, compelled to leave the horses, followed with a basket of provisions. Ella
was clothed in little besides a light wrapper, and had shivered more than once in the night
air. George tried to induce her and Mrs. Bodine to accept of the mattress, but they asked as
a favor that it might be placed under Mrs. Hunter. He readily complied, saying he would get
another for them.

At this moment came the ominous groan of the severe shock which occurred at about half-past
two o'clock Wednesday morning. To the terrified people it was like the growl of some ravening
beast rushing upon them, and a long wailing cry blended with the horrible roar as it swept
under and over them, then died away in the northwest.

"Oh, Mr. Houghton," sobbed Ella, when her voice could be heard, "please don't go away--please
don't go near a building again."

"George," added his father, almost sternly, "not with my consent will you leave me again till
we learn more definitely what our fate is to be. If you were in the house when this shock occurred,
you might have perished. It is no longer a question of more or less comfort."

"I reckon not," said Mrs. Bodine. "It's a question of ever seeing the sun rise again. We may
as well speak out what is in our minds, and get ready for a city not made with hands."

"I wish we were all as ready to go as you are, Cousin Sophy," Ella whispered.

"Well, my dear, I've more property in that city than in this wrecked town, and 'where your
treasure is, there will your heart be also.'" Then she added, "You'll be spared, dear child.
You and your knight will see many happy years. God bless you both."

"Oh, cousin! it is such a comfort, even at this awful time, to see him, to know he is near,
to think he came for--for us!"

"For you, dear little goose. He'd face earthquakes, volcanoes, tornadoes, cyclones, and even
his father before this well-deserved shaking converted him, for your sake."

"Cousin," whispered the girl, "I'm so glad. Is it wrong to be glad at such a time?"

"Wrong to be glad when God loves you and a good man loves you? I reckon not. All the quakes
that ever shook this crazy old earth are bagatelles compared with such facts."

"Oh, cousin, you are such a tower of strength and comfort!"

"I'm a leaning tower," replied the old lady, whose vein of humor ran through all her thoughts,
"but I'm leaning on what won't fail me. Nestle down by my side, dear child. You are shivering,
and this extra blanket will do us both good. Now be comfortable, and believe with me that nothing
in the universe can or will harm you."

"Poor Mara!" Ella sighed.

"Yes, I've been watching and grieving over her. I never saw any face more expressive of suffering
than hers. I don't understand her unless--unless--well, time will show, that is, if there is
much more time for me."

"Oh, cousin, we never could spare you!"

"That is what I used to think about my husband, but he always went when sailing orders came,
and I survived. I feel to-night as if be and the boys were just waiting off shore, if this
tossing and pitching earth can be called shore, for me to join them."

Captain Bodine sat through the shock without moving a muscle. His eyes rested wistfully on
Mara. With an indescribable pang he saw that in the supreme moment of general terror her eyes
turned not to him but to Clancy, and that she made a half involuntary movement as if to go
to him. The glance, the act, combined with what had gone before, were too significant, and
Bodine buried his face in his hands that she might not see his trouble. She knew it all the
more surely, yet felt how powerless she was to console him.

"Oh, my blind, blind folly!" she groaned inwardly. "If I had been true to my heart, I might
be caring for Owen instead of that woman who left him to die, and my father's friend acting
like a father toward us both. I wanted to be so heroic and self-sacrificing, and I've only
sacrificed those I love most."

Mrs. Hunter was so fully under the influence of anodynes as not to be cognizant of what was
taking place, and Bodine, soldier-like, was not long in reaching his decision. Rising, he went
aside with Dr. Devoe, and said, "Miss Wallingford is keeping up from the sheer force of will.
Nothing but your command can induce her to yield and take such rest as can be obtained here.
I do not think you can interpose too soon. I will watch Mrs. Hunter."

Mara had indeed reached the limit of endurance, and the physician quickly detected the fact.
He took her by the hand and arm, and gently raised her to her feet as he said, "I am autocrat
here. Even kings and generals must obey their doctor. So I shall ask no permission to place
you beside Mrs. Bodine. She and rest can do you more good than I can. Captain Bodine and I
will look after Mrs. Hunter."

Mara gave the veteran a grateful glance and yielded. Then she buried her face in Mrs. Bodine's
neck, and was silent until she slept from physical exhaustion.

Miss Ainsley, with multitudes of others, yielded to her terror at the passing of the midnight
earthquake. She shrieked and half rose in her wild impulse to fly. Then apparently forgetting
Clancy she piteously begged Dr. Devoe to give her something that would certainly bring oblivion
for a few hours at least. He good-naturedly complied. When the opiate began to take effect
she was placed on the mattress beside Mrs. Hunter, and was soon in stupor. Clancy had so far
recovered that he was able to sit up, and he felt that he should watch beside the girl who
he believed had been so devoted to him in his unconsciousness.

Dr. Devoe in excuse for Miss Ainsley said, "We can't make too much allowance to-night for every
one. Many strong men are utterly overcome and nauseated by these, shocks. No wonder women cannot
face them."

"I think Miss Ainsley has borne up wonderfully," Clancy replied.

"Oh, yes, as well as the average. It's a question of nerves with the majority."

Clancy sat down and looked with pity at the beautiful face and dishevelled hair. "Poor girl!"
he thought, "she did her best by me. Indeed, I had scarcely thought her capable of such devotion.
By all that's honorable I'm bound to her now. Well, eventually I can give her a truer affection,
for she has ceased to be merely a part of my ambitious scheme. By our own acts Mara and I are
separated, and, however deep our grief may be, it must be hidden from all."

Thus he and Captain Bodine sat on either side of the pallet, each immersed in painful thought,
oblivious of the strange scenes enacted all around them. They did not feel then that they could
speak to each other.

The veteran was perplexed, and his proud spirit also labored under a deep sense of wrong. It
was evident that he had been deceived by Mara, and that all along she had loved the man so
near to him, loved him better than her own life. Why had she concealed the fact? Why had she
been so cold and harsh toward Clancy himself until the awful events of the night and peril
to life had overpowered her reserve and revealed her heart? He could think of no other explanation
than that afforded by the unconscious girl over whom Clancy watched. He had heard of the young
man's devotion to Miss Ainsley, and, from what he had seen, believed that they were affianced.
He was too just and large in his judgment to think Mara's course toward him was due to pique
and wounded pride, and he was not long in arriving at a very fair explanation of her motives
and action. Keenly intelligent and mature in years he was beyond the period of passionate and
inconsiderate resentment. Moreover his love for the orphan girl was so true, and the memory
of her father and mother so dear to him, that he was able to rise nobly above mere self, and
resolve to become the most loyal of friends, a protector against her very self. "Now I think
of it," he mused, "she has never said she loved me, although she permitted me to think she
did. Even when I declared my love she only said, 'Life offers me nothing better than to be
your wife.' That no doubt was true as she meant it, for she then thought this man here was
lost to her. She did not welcome my love when she first recognized it, but soon her spirit
of self-sacrifice came in, and she reasoned that since she could not be happy in herself, she
would make me happy. From the very first I believed that this spirit could lead her to deception
for the sake of others, and I have not been sufficiently on my guard against it. Yet how could
I suspect this Clancy, whom she so repelled and contemned, and who was devoting himself to
another woman? Perhaps she partially deceived herself as well as me. The affection probably
struck root years since when she and Clancy were friends. He outgrew it; she has not, as she
has learned to night, if not before. He went to her aid because he was friendly in spite of
her apparent bitterness toward him, which perhaps he understood better than I. Possibly Mrs.
Hunter may have broken their relations, for there is no doubt about her feelings. Well, time
must unravel the snarl. It would now seem that he is devoted to this girl here, and she to
him as far as she can be to any one. What he will think when he learns that she ran shrieking
away and left him, while Mara, reckless of life itself, stood by him to the last, I cannot
know. If he loves her he will forgive her, for no man can blame a woman for succumbing to the
terror of this night. Possibly at some distant day Mara may still think that life offers her
nothing better than to be my wife; but she shall be free, free as air, and know, too, that
I know all."

Thus Bodine communed with himself after a habit learned long ago in the presence of danger.

Clancy also was confronted by possible results of his action, the fear of which enabled his
cool, resolute nature to rise above all other fear. He resolved to go at once to Aun' Sheba,
and caution her against speaking of the scenes in which she, with Mara, and himself had taken part.

CHAPTER XLIV

HOPE TURNED INTO DREAD

Clancy was guided by the voice of Aun' Sheba, the wailing of Sissy, and the groans and unearthly
sounds to which Uncle Sheba was giving utterance. The adjacent fire was so far subdued that
only a red glow in the sky above marked the spot. The stars shone in calm, mocking serenity
on the wide scene of human distress and fear. "Alas," he thought, "what atoms we are; and what
an atom is this earth itself! It would seem that faith is the simplest, yet mightiest effort
of the mind at such a time," and he paused till Aun' Sheba should be more free to listen to him.

Mr. Birdsall, with his youngest child in his arms, had been exhorting those of his people near
him, but his words had been of little effect in quieting Sissy and Uncle Sheba. The latter
had concluded that he would not wait till the coming winter before again "'speriencin 'ligion,"
and his uncouth appeals to Heaven were but the abject expression of animal fear. Aun' Sheba
had lost her patience with both him and her daughter, and was expostulating vigorously. "I'se
asham on you, Sissy," she said. "Wot good de 'ligion you 'fess do you, I'd like ter know? Ain't
Vilet in Hebin? Ain't you got de bes husban bawn? Ain't de oder chil'n heah? Now ef you'se
'ligion any good 'tall, be quiet an tankful dat you bettah off dan hun'erds. Unc., you kin
pray all you wants, but ef you specs de Lawd ter listen you'se got ter pray like a man an not
like a hog dat wants his dinnah. You'se 'sturbin everybody wuss dan you did wen you got sot
on. I won hab it said my folks made a rumpus in dis time ob trouble. You'se got ter min me,
Mr. Buggone, or I'se hab you took out de squar."

Uncle Sheba was never so far gone in his fears but that he shrunk from facing anything worse,
and so he subsided into low inarticulate groans. Sissy was not so tractable, for her weeping
was largely nervous and hysterical. She had an affectionate emotional nature, but was far from
being gifted with the strength of mind and character possessed by her mother and husband.

"Aun' Sheba," said Clancy kindly, "your daughter needs something to quiet her nerves. I will
bring it to her." He soon returned with medicine from the doctor, and under its influence the
bereaved mother became calmer and wept softly by her dead child.

Clancy drew Aun' Sheba a little apart so that others could not hear, even if any were disposed
to listen at this time of intense preoccupation. "You have been a friend indeed to-night,"
he said. "I must ask another proof of your good-will. The earthquake has brought trouble enough,
but I fear that Mara and I have brought greater trouble upon ourselves. Probably you've seen
enough to explain what I mean."

"I'se seen a heap, Marse Clancy."

"Well, you are Mara's old nurse. She loves and trusts you. She is engaged to Captain Bodine."

"She ain't mar'ed to 'im."

"She feels herself bound, and has said that if I was a true Southern gentleman I would not
interfere. This is bad enough, but there's worse still. I thought she was lost to me--you know
about it, I reckon."

"Yes, I knows now. I was a blin ole fool an tink it was wuckin' so hard dat made her po'ly."

"Oh, we have both made such fatal mistakes! I, like a fool, when I believed she would never
speak to me again, entangled myself also. Now, Aun' Sheba, what I wish is that you say nothing
to any one of what you have seen and heard. We've got to do what's honorable at every cost
to ourselves."

"Dus wot's hon'ble mean dat Missy Mara got ter mar'y Marse Bodine an you de limpsey-slimpsey
one wot say you 'serted her?"

"Nothing else seems to be left for us."

"'Pears ter me, Marse Clancy, you an Missy Mara gittin orful muxed up in wot's hon'ble. I'se
only got wot folks calls hoss-sense, but it's dead agin you bofe. Take you now. Fust you got
ter tell de gal lies, den lies to her fader an de minister wot jines you, and de hull worl.
Missy Mara ud hab ter lie like de debil, too, an you bofe go on lyin 'miscuously. Anyhow, you'se
hab ter act out de lies ef you didn't say 'em. 'Ud dat be hon'ble wen all de time you'se yearnin
fer each oder?"

"Oh, Aun' Sheba, it's hard enough without such words as yours!"

"Ob corse it's hard. It orter be, fer it's agin de Lawd an natur. Marse Clancy, took keer wot
you do, an wot you let Missy Mara do. My 'sperience teach me a heap. S'pose I doan' know de
dif'ence 'tween Unc. dar an a man like Kern? I was young an foolish once, an mar'ed Unc. kase
he was good lookin den, an mo' kase he ax me. Well, I'se made de bes on it, an I'se gwine ter
make de bes on it; but if de yearth crack right open heah, as like 'nuff 'twill 'fo' mawnin,
I'd jump right down in de crack 'fo' I'd do it ober ag'in. You'se on de safe side ob de crack
yit, so be keerful. I knows woman folks soon as I claps my eyes on dem. Miss Mara quar in her
notions 'bout de Norf--she was brung up to 'em--but dere's nuff woman in my honey lam' to make
a tousan ob dis yere limpsey-slimpsey one."

Clancy clinched his hands in mental distress as he listened to the hard sense and unerring
judgment of the sagacious old woman.

"I'm in terrible perplexity," he said, "for there is so much truth in your words. How can I
escape the consequences of my own acts? Think how Miss Ainsley stood by me in my unconsciousness!
When I revived--"

"Dar now, Marse Clancy, you'se been fooled. She stood by hersef. De fac am, she didn't stan
'tall, but run like a deer, hollerin fer all she's wuth. Wen you swoonded, Missy Mara cotch
you in her arms. I eben run away, an lef my honey lam' mysef, but I come back sudden, an dar
she was a hol'n you head in her lap right uner a big bildin dat ud a squashed her. I drag you
pass dat, an den Marse Bodine jes ordered me an Missy to go to de squar. He spoke stern an
strong as if we his sogers. An Missy Mara look 'im in de eyes an say, you--dat's you, Marse
Clancy--may be dead, or you may be dyin, an dat she can't leab you an she won leab you. She
got de grit ob true lub, an dere'll neber be any runin away in her heart. Wot you an Marse
Bodine gwine ter do 'bout sich lub as dat? 'Fo' de Lawd my honey lam' die ef you an Marse Bodine
'sist on bein so orful hon'ble. She ain't one dem kin' dat takes a husban like dey takes a
breakfas kase its ready."

Clancy was so profoundly moved by what he heard that he turned away to hide his emotion. After
a moment he said: "You have been true and faithful, Aun' Sheba. You won't be sorry. Please
do as I have asked." And he hastened away.

"Reckon I put a spoke in dat hon'ble bizness," Aun' Sheba soliloquized. "Like 'nuff I put another
in. Doan cotch me hep'n along any sich foolishness. I gibs no promise, an I'se gwine ter make
my honey lam' happy spite hersef." Then she took one of her grandchildren, and soothed it to sleep.

The slow hours dragged wearily on; the majority of the white people quieted down to patient,
yet fearful waiting; crying children, one after another, dropped off to sleep; parents and
friends watched over them and one another, conversing in low tones or praying silently for
the Divine mercy, never before felt to be so essential. The negroes were more demonstrative,
and their loud prayers and singing of hymns continued without abatement or hindrance. The expressions
of some were so extravagant and uncouth as to grate harshly on all natures possessing any refinement;
but when such men as Mr. Birdsall exhorted or prayed, there were but few among the whites who
did not listen reverently, and in their hearts acknowledge the substantial truth of the words
spoken and their need of the petitions offered.

Clancy went back to his watch. Few men in the city were more troubled and perplexed than he,
for he had not the calmness resulting from a definite purpose as was true of Bodine.

Unmovedly the two men remained at their posts of duty awaiting the day or what might happen
before the dawn. George lay down beside his father, and soon slept from fatigue, while Mr.
Houghton, now so softened and chastened, vowed to make him happy.

Ella watched her father in deep solicitude, feeling vaguely that his trouble was not caused
wholly by the general reasons for distress. At last she stole to his side, and laid her head
upon his shoulder. The act comforted and sustained him more than she knew at the time, for
he was not a demonstrative man. He only kissed her tenderly and bade her return to her cousin,
with whom she kept up a whispered and fragmentary conversation. Mrs. Willoughby sat beside
her husband, her head pillowed against his breast as they waited for the day.

A breeze sprang up, and the freshness of the morning was in it. Would the sun ever rise again?
Was not Nature so out of joint that nothing familiar could be looked for any more? The terrors
of the long night inspired morbid thoughts, which come too readily in darkness.

At the appointed time, however, there was a glow in the east, which steadily deepened in color.
Truly, to the weary, haggard, shivering, half-clad watchers, the sun was an angel of light
that morning; and never did fire-worshippers greet his rise with a deeper feeling of gratitude
and gladness.

There was a general stir in the strange bivouac, an increased murmur of voices. The hymns of
the negroes gradually ceased; and people, singly or in groups, began to leave the square for
their homes, in order to clothe themselves more fully, and to discover what was left to them
in the general wreck.

There had been no shock since the convulsion at half-past two o'clock, the fact inspiring general
confidence that the worst was over. Hope grew stronger with the blessed light, and fear vanished
with the darkness.

Mr. Houghton touched his son, who immediately awoke, meditating deeds of hospitality. "Father,"
he said, "our house is near. Cannot I, with the aid of Jube and Sam, get our friends some breakfast?"

"Yes, George, and extend the invitation from me."

"Oh, father! I'm so grateful that you are giving me this chance to--to--"

"You shall have all the chance you wish. In fact, I'm rather inclined to see what I can do
myself. I may need a good deal of nursing." And the old man's face was lighted up with a kindly
smile, which made his son positively happy.

Approaching Bodine, he asked, "Do you think it will be safe for the invalids to leave the square?"

"I scarcely think so," was the reply. "At least, not until more time passes without disturbance.
From what I've read of earthquakes, our houses may be unsafe for days to come."

"Well, the first thing to be done is to see that you all have some breakfast. Fortunately,
our house is not far; and, although our women-servants have fled, I have two men who will stand
by me. The fact is, my hunting expeditions have made me a fairly good cook myself. My father
cordially extends the invitation that all my friends here breakfast with us."

"I will join in your labors, Houghton," said Clancy, promptly. "Having no home, I gratefully
accept your father's invitation."

"We're all shipwrecked on a desert island," added Mrs. Bodine cheerily to George. "You appear
to be one of the friendly natives, and I put myself under your protection."

"Our custom here is," replied the young fellow in like vein, "that, after we have taken salt
together, we become fast friends."

"Bring on the salt, then," she answered laughing, while Ella's smile seemed to the young fellow
more vivifying than the first level rays of the sun. Mara, Mrs. Hunter, and Miss Ainsley were
still sleeping, as also was Dr. Devoe.

"Houghton," called Mr. Willoughby, "won't you enroll me as one of your cooks or waiters?"

"No," replied George, "I must leave you and Captain Bodine in charge of camp."

"Too many cooks spile de brof," said Aun' Sheba, rising from Mara's side where she had been
watching for the last hour. "Marse Houghton, you bery fine cook fer de woods, I spec, but I
reckon I kin gib a lil extra tech to de doin's."

"Ah, Aun' Sheba, if you'll come, you shall be chief cook, and I, for one, promise to obey.
Mrs. Willoughby, I'm so very glad that I can now return a little of your kindness."

"I take back what I said about absolving you," she whispered.

"You'd better. If I don't make the most of my chance now my name is not George Houghton. Of
course I shan't say anything while these troubles last. You understand, I don't wish anything
to happen which would embarrass her, or make it hard to accept what I can do for her and hers;
but when the right time comes," and he nodded significantly.

"You are on the right tack as you boatmen say," she whispered laughing.

"See here, Houghton," remarked jolly Mr. Willoughby, "earthquakes and secret conferences with
my wife are more than a fellow can stand at one and the same time."

"You shall soon have consolation," said George, hastening away, followed by Clancy, Aun' Sheba,
Jube, and Sam. When the last-named worthy appeared near Mr. Houghton's barn the horses whinnied
and the two dogs barked joyously.

"Mr. Clancy," said George, handing him his pocket-book, "since you have kindly offered to aid,
please take Jube and visit the nearest butcher's shop and bakery. I suggest that you lay in
a large supply, for we don't know what may happen. Please get eggs, canned delicacies, anything
you think best. Don't spare money. Help yourself, if owners are absent. I will honor all your
I.O.U's."

"All right, Houghton; but remember that I'm an active partner in this catering business. Fortunately
I don't need to go to the bank for money."

Aun' Sheba exclaimed over the evidences of disaster along the street, but when she saw what
a wreck Mr. Houghton's massive portico had become she lifted her hands in dismay.

"That don't trouble me," said George, "since I'm not under it. I passed beneath a second or
two before it fell."

"De Lawd be praised! 'Pears ter me He know wot He 'bout, an is gwine ter bring down pride ez
well ez piazzers."

"It looks that way, Aun' Sheba. Here, Sam, make the kitchen fire before you do anything else.
Now we must rummage and see what we can find."

Aun' Sheba took possession of the kitchen, and with broom, mop, and cloths, soon brought order
out of chaos. Sam found that although the chimney had lost its top, it fortunately drew, and
the fire in the range speedily proved all that could be desired. George ravaged the store-closet
until Aun' Sheba said, "Nuff heah already ter feed de squar."

Then he went up and looked about the poor wrecked home, meanwhile setting Sam to dusting chairs
and carrying them to the square. Then a table, crockery, knives, forks, spoons, napkins, etc.,
were despatched.

Clancy and Jube found that the proprietors of some of the shops were plucking up courage to
enter them and resume trade, and so they eventually returned well laden with provisions. Then
Jube was sent with wash-basins, water and towels for ablutions. Meantime George and Clancy
took a hasty bath and exchanged their ruined clothing for clean apparel.

"Houghton, you are a godsend to us all," exclaimed his friend.

"I suppose the whole affair is a godsend," was the reply; "anyway, I'm getting my satisfaction
out of it this morning."

As sprightly Mrs. Willoughby saw the applicances for their comfort following one after another
she said to Ella, "We may as well make believe that it is a picnic."

Ella smiled and replied, "I'm better dressed for breakfast than you are, for I have on a wrapper,
and you are in a low-necked evening costume."

"I feel as if I could eat a breakfast all the same. What creatures these mortals be! A little
while ago I was in the depths of misery, and now I'm hungry and kind of happy."

"Oh, you are," said her husband, "when you may have to take in washing for a living, while
I shovel brick and mortar."

"No, indeed," cried his wife, "I'll join the firm of Wallingford and Bodine, and you can help
Aun' Sheba peddle cakes."

"That's right, children," said Mrs. Bodine, "that's the true brave Southern spirit. We are
all born soldiers, seamen rather, since the land has been as freakish as the waves. Now mind,
I'll send the first one below who shows the white feather."

Mr. Houghton lay apart from this group; and, while he felt his isolation, knew that he was
to blame for it. They also felt the awkwardness of their situation, not knowing how far he
was willing or able to converse with them. Mr. Willoughby was about to break the ice, but Ella
forestalled him. "Mr. Houghton," she said, timidly approaching, "is there anything we can do
for you? We are all so grateful."

"Yes, Miss Bodine. Forget and forgive."

"There seems very little now to forgive, and we do not wish to forget your kindness."

"Good Lor!" whispered Mrs. Bodine to Mrs. Willoughby, "I couldn't have turned a neater sentence
myself."

"Well, Miss Bodine," resumed Mr. Houghton, "I suppose we shall have to let bygones be bygones.
Now that sunshine and brightness have come, we should not recall anything painful. I trust
that the worst is over, but our courage may yet be sorely tried. I will esteem it a very great
favor if you and your friends will accept without reluctance what my son can do for your comfort."

Ella could not repress a little laugh of pleasure as she replied, "It is too late now to affect
any reluctance. We owe him so much that we might as well owe him more." Then, ever practical,
she arranged a screen to shade his face from the sun's rays.

Mr. Willoughby now came up and spoke in a friendly way of the probable effects of the disaster
upon the city, and so the touch of mutual kindness began to make them kin.

Mrs. Hunter commenced to moan and toss, and this awakened Miss Ainsley, who looked around wonderingly.
Mrs. Willoughby in low tones recalled what had happened, and explained the present aspect of
affairs. Mrs. Bodine performed the same office for Mara, who also had been aroused by the voices
near. The girl's habit of self-control served her in good stead, and she immediately rose,
gave her hand to Bodine in greeting, and then knelt beside her aunt. Seeing Mara so near, Miss
Ainsley quickly rose also, and moved away in instinctive antipathy.

Mrs. Hunter was feverish and evidently very ill. She was unable to comprehend what was taking
place, but recognized Mara, whose soothing touch and words alone had the power of quieting her.

Ella bathed Mrs. Bodine's face and hands, and enabled her to make "the ghost of a toilet,"
as the old lady said. Then Ella whispered, "I wish I could do as much for Mr. Houghton."

"I dare you to do it," said Mrs. Bodine, with a mirthful gleam in her eyes.

Ella caught her spirit, and without hesitation, although blushing like a rose, went to Mr.
Houghton, and asked, "Will you please let me bathe your hands and face also?"

"Why, Miss Bodine, I should not expect such kindness from you. I can wait till my son returns."

"He is doing so much that he will be tired. It would give me pleasure if you will permit it.
In waiting on my cousin I've learned to be not a very awkward nurse."

"Well, Miss Bodine, I am learning that even earthquakes can bring pleasant compensations. You
shall have your own way. Yes, you are a good nurse, and a brave and patient one. Your kindness
to that poor creature who died in your arms touched my heart."

"And mine too, Mr. Houghton. She told me a very pitiful story."

"You shall tell it to me some time, my dear."

Her heart thrilled as he gently spoke these words, while George, striding up with a great platter
of steak, almost dropped it as he saw the girl waiting on his father as if filial relations
were already established. The old man enjoyed his look of pleased wonder, and, when he had
a chance, whispered, "I'm getting ahead of you, my boy, I don't want your clumsy hands or Jube's
around me any more." Mrs. Bodine put her head under the blanket and shook with silent laughter.

Ella was very shy of the young man, however. He could not catch her eye, nor get a chance to
speak to her except in the presence of her father, Mrs. Bodine, or some one else. But he possessed
his soul in patience, and did his best to be a genial host. Clancy, Jube, and Sam followed
with the coffee and various comestibles. Miss Ainsley was a little effusive in her greeting
of the man whom she had deserted in the street, and again had left to pass the night as he
could, while she sought oblivion. His response was grave, kind, yet not altogether reassuring.
He certainly indulged in no lover-like glances; and he went direct to Mara, and inquired gently
after Mrs. Hunter. She replied quietly, without looking up. It was evident that the sound of
his voice distressed the injured woman, who was barely conscious enough to have vague memories
of the past.

Weary Dr. Devoe was wakened, while George gave Mrs. Willoughby his arm, and gallantly placed
her behind the coffee-urn. Even Captain Bodine assumed a measure of cheerfulness during breakfast.
When newsboys came galloping up with the morning paper, Mr. Willoughby rose and waved his hat,
joining in the general hurrah which rose from all parts of the square. Every one warmly appreciated
the heroism displayed in gathering news and printing a journal during the past night. Next
to the vivifying light and the apparent cessation of the shocks, nothing did more to restore
confidence than the appearance of the familiar paper.

"Old Charleston is alive yet," cried Mr. Willoughby; "and if the rest of us have half the pluck
shown in that printing-house, we'll soon restore everything."

"Give me a paper," said Mrs. Bodine. "I'd rather have it than my breakfast."

"You shall have both," replied Ella, bringing a little tray to her side.

"Ah, Cousin Hugh, you veterans never did anything braver. Own up."

"I do, most sincerely and heartily."

Clancy read the journal aloud; and the coffee grew cold as all listened breathlessly to a chapter
in the city's history never to be forgotten. Mr. Houghton was so absorbed that he suddenly
became conscious that Ella was beside him with the daintiest of breakfasts. "You are spoiling
me for any other nurse," he said.

"It is a relief at such a time to care for those who are ill and feeble," she replied gently.
"If we have to stay here, I hope you will let me wait on you; but I trust that we can all soon
go to our homes."

"I have my doubts. Now give me the pleasure of seeing you make a good meal."

"Mr. Clancy," cried Mrs. Willoughby, "in the general chaos women may obtain their just pre-eminence.
I shall take the lead by ordering you to lay down that paper, so that you and others may have
a hot breakfast."

Mara could be induced to take nothing beyond a cup of coffee. In spite of the sunshine and
the general reaction into hopefulness and courage, she felt that black chaos was coming into
her life. Her aunt and natural protector was very ill. After the events of the night she shrank
inexpressibly from her former relations to Bodine. Indeed, it seemed impossible to continue
them. Yet she asked herself again and again, "What else is there for me?" He was very kind,
but the expression of his face was inscrutable. Moreover, there was Miss Ainsley acting as
if Clancy were her own natural property, and he unable to dispute her claims. It appeared to
her that poor stricken Mrs. Hunter was her only refuge, and she resolved to remain close by
the invalid's side.

With the coming of the day Uncle Sheba's most poignant fears had gradually subsided. He kept
his eyes on his wife, feeling that any good that he might hope for in this world would come
through her. Indeed the impression was growing that the greatest immediate good to be obtained
from any world was a breakfast; and when Aun' Sheba went with George to his home, Unc. also
followed at a discreet distance. The result was that his wife again had to put him on a "'lowance,"
or little would have been left in Mr. Houghton's kitchen. He surreptitiously stuffed a few
eatables into his pocket, and then went out to smoke his pipe.

Breakfast was at last over at the square. Mr. Willoughby rose and said to his wife, "I will
go to the house, and get more suitable costumes for you and Carrie. Houghton will loan you
a dressing-room at his house, for the streets can be scarcely suitable for you to traverse
yet. I'll bring a carriage for you, however, as soon as it is possible. Serious danger is now
over, I hope."

He had scarcely uttered the words when, as if in mockery, far in the southeast was heard again
the sound which appalled the stoutest hearts. On it came, as if a lightning express-train were
thundering down upon them. They saw the tops of distant trees nod and sway as if agitated by
a gale; men, women, and children rushing again, with loud cries, from their homes; then it
seemed as if some subterranean monster was tearing its way through the earth.

The moment the paralysis of terror passed, Miss Ainsley threw herself shrieking upon Clancy,
who was compelled to support and soothe her. Mara covered her face with her hands, trembled
violently, but uttered no sound. Ella could not repress a cry, as she hid her face upon her
father's breast, a cry echoed by Mrs. Willoughby as she and her husband clung together. George
knelt, holding the hand of his father, who looked at his son with the feeling that, if the
end had come, his boy should be the last object on which his eyes rested. Mrs. Bodine was as
composed as the veteran himself, and simply looked heavenward. There was something so terrific
in the immeasurable power of the convulsion, so suggestive of immediate and awful death, that
few indeed could maintain any degree of fortitude.

There was one, however, a few rods away, who scarcely noticed the shock. Kern Watson, at last
released from duty, sat on the ground, with his face buried in the neck of his dead child.
He did not raise his head, and trembled only as the quivering earth agitated his form.

CHAPTER XLV

A CITY ENCAMPING

The earthquake which occurred at 8:25 Wednesday morning had a disastrous effect, although it
was not so severe as to injure materially the buildings already so shattered. It nipped hope
and growing confidence in the bud. Multitudes had left the square for their homes, a large
proportion with the immediate purpose of obtaining more clothing. Many would have been comparatively
naked were it not for enveloping blankets and the loan of articles of apparel from the more
fortunate. With the confidence which the morning and the continued quiet of the earth inspired
there had been a general movement from the square. Some hastily dressed themselves, snatched
up bedding and food, and returned to the open spaces immediately; others breakfasted at home,
and some had the heart to begin the task of putting their houses in order. The shock drove
them forth again with all their fears renewed and increased, for the homes, which in many cases
had been a refuge for generations, were now looked upon as deathtraps, threatening to mangle
and torture as well as destroy. The love of gain, the instinct to preserve property, was also
obliterated. Merchants deserted their shops and warehouses. Banks were unopened, except for
the gaps rent by the earthquake. The city was full of food, yet people went hungry, not daring
to enter the places where it was stored. After a second and general flight to the square, the
question in all hearts, "What next?" paralyzed with its dread suggestion.

The fear among the educated had become definite and rational. Not that they could explain the
earthquake or its causes, but the sad experiences of other regions were known to them. These
experiences, however, had varied so greatly in their horrors as to leave a wide margin of terrible
possibilities. A tidal wave might roll in, for the city was scarcely more than nine feet above
the sea. The earth might open in great and ingulfing fissures. The tremendous forces beneath
them might seek a volcanic outlet. These were all dire thoughts, and were brought home to the
consciousness the more vividly because the awful phenomena continued in the serene light of
day. The nightmare aspect of what had occurred in darkness passed away, and the coolest and
most learned found themselves confronted by dangers which they could not gauge or explain.
Nor could the end be foreseen. If such considerations weighed down the spirits of the most
intelligent men, imagine the fears of frail, nervous women, of the children, the wild panic
of the superstitious negroes to whom science explained nothing. To their excited minds the
earthquake was due directly either to the action of a malignant, personal devil, or of an angry
God. While many of the poor ignorant creatures inevitably indulged in what were justly termed
"religious orgies," the great majority were well behaved and patient, finding in their simple
faith unspeakable comfort and support.

One fact, however, was clear to all: that the place of immediate and greatest danger was near
or beneath anything which might be prostrated by the recurring shocks.

Another feature in Wednesday's experience was very depressing. The city was completely isolated
from the rest of the world. All telegraph-wires were down, all railroads leading into the city
had been rendered impassable. For many hours those without who had friends and relatives in
Charleston were kept in dreadful suspense. From adjacent cities reports of the catastrophe
were flashed continuously, but in regard to Charleston there was an ominous lack of information,
and the fear was very general that the city by the sea had sunk beneath the waves.

Mr. Ainsley shared in this horrible dread. He telegraphed repeatedly from an inland town, and
took the first train despatched toward the city. His daughter was right in believing that he
would reach her at the earliest possible moment.

She was greatly demoralized by the shock which dissipated her impression of comparative safety;
and when she realized that the city was utterly cut off from the outside world, that it was
impossible to know when her father could arrive, she gave way to selfish fear and the deepest
dejection. With embarrassing pertinacity she insisted that Clancy should remain near her. Even
to the others it was apparent that fear, rather than affection, led her to desire his presence
so earnestly. He had once wondered what kind of a woman was masked by her culture and a reserve
so perfect that it had seemed frankness. The veneer now was stripped off. After her own fashion,
she was almost as abject in her terror as Uncle Sheba, who had run howling back to the square,
leaving the wife who had fed him to her fate. In her lack of honest sympathy for others, and
indisposition to exert herself in their behalf, Miss Ainsley quite equalled the selfish old
negro. The conventional world in which she had shone to such advantage had passed away. Her
very perfection in form and feature made defects in character more glaring, for she was seen
to be a fair yet broken promise.

How sweetly the noble qualities of Ella and Mara were revealed by comparison! They had been
taught in the school of adversity. From childhood they had learned to think of others first
rather than of themselves. Miss Ainsley would have been resplendent and at ease in a royal
drawing-room; these two girls maintained womanly fortitude and gave themselves up to unselfish
devotion in the presence of a mysterious power which would level an emperor's palace as readily
as a negro's cabin.

Clancy saw the difference--no one more clearly--and his very soul recoiled from the woman he
had purposed to marry. He patiently bore with her as long as he could after the shock, and
then joined Mr. Willoughby, George, Bodine, and Dr. Devoe, who were consulting at Mr. Houghton's
bedside. In his shame and distress he did not venture even to glance at Mara.

As the stress of the emergency increased Mr. Houghton's mind had grown clear and decided; his
old resolute, business habits asserted themselves, and from his low couch he practically became
the leader in their council. "From what we know of other and like disturbances," he said, "it
is impossible to foresee when these shocks will end, or how soon a refuge can be sought in
regions exempt from our dangers. Now that I am established in this square near my home I intend
to remain here for the present. I cordially ask you all to share my fortunes. My son will spare
no expense or effort, that can be made in safety, for our general comfort." Then he added before
them all, "Captain Bodine, I have done you much wrong and discourtesy. I apologize. You have
invalid and injured ladies in your charge. Their claims are sacred and imperative. I will esteem
it a favor if you will permit my son to do what he can for their comfort and protection."

Bodine at once came forward, and giving Mr. Houghton his hand, replied, "You and your son are
teaching me that I have done you both much greater wrong. I think I shall have to surrender
as I did once before, but I am glad that it is to kindness rather than to force in this instance."

"Here's the true remedy for our differences," cried Mr. Willoughby. "Let the North and South
get acquainted, and all will be well. But come, we must act, and act promptly."

"Yes," replied George, "for the square is filling up again, and we should keep as much space
here as possible. I have a small tent which I will put up at once for Mrs. Bodine and Mrs.
Hunter. Then I'll rig an awning for my father, and help the rest of you in whatever you decide
upon."

"George," said his father, anxiously, "let your visits to the house be as brief as possible."

Clancy offered to assist George in meeting the immediate need of shelter from the sun, and
Dr. Devoe gave the morning to the care of his many patients. Mr. Willoughby said that he must
first go to his home for clothing and to look after matters, but that he would soon return.
Bodine was asked to mount guard and prevent, as far as possible, the fugitives from encroaching
on the needed space. This proved no easy task. Old Tobe, after having received some breakfast,
maintained his watch over the medical stores, while Aun' Sheba, who had followed her husband
as fast as her limited powers of travelling permitted, cleared away the remnants of the breakfast
for her family, George assuring her that he would soon make all comfortable provision for her
and them.

With Clancy and the two colored men he repaired to his home, as the wrecked venture to a ship
which may break up at any moment, in order to secure what was absolutely essential. A tent
was soon pitched for the invalids; a shelter of quilts suspended over and around his father,
and a large carpet jerked from the floor formed an awning for the ladies. Part of this awning
was partitioned off so as to give them all the privacy possible under the circumstances, and
the remainder was inclosed on three sides, but left open toward the east.

"I'm not going to be sent to the hospital," said Mrs. Bodine. "I'd rather sit up and direct
Ella how to transform this outer habitation into a drawing-room."

Then George brought her and his father easy-chairs. Rugs were spread on the grass, and the
rude shelter became positively inviting. Ella and Mrs. Willoughby made themselves so useful
that at last Miss Ainsley so far recovered from her panic as to assist. She detested Mara,
and Mrs. Hunter's ghastly face and white hair embodied to her mind the terror of which all
were in dread. The bright sunshine and homely work were suggestive of rural pleasures rather
than of dire necessity, and helped, for the time, to retire the spectre of danger to the background.
The coming and going of many acquaintances and friends also helped to rally her spirits, and
incite her to the semblance of courage. Mrs. Willoughby, Mrs. Bodine, and Mara had stanch friends
who sought them out the moment comparative safety had been secured for their nearer dependants.
The demands of our story require nothing more than the brief statement that there was a general
disposition on the part of the people to think of and care for all who had claims upon them.
Even in the dreadful hours immediately following the first shock, much unselfish heroism was
displayed; and during the weary days and nights which followed, men and women vied with each
other in their attentions to those who most needed care.

Mrs. Bodine, Mrs. Willoughby, and the captain had several whispered conferences with those
who felt surprise at associations with Mr. Houghton, and there was a quick, generous response
to the old man's kindness. Some who would not have looked at him the day before now went and
spoke to him gratefully and sympathetically, while for George only cordiality and admiration
were manifested. He was not a little uneasy over the profuse attentions and offers of help
which Ella received from several young men. To his jealous eyes she appeared unnecessarily
gracious, and more ready to talk with them than with him; but he could not discover that she
had an especial favorite among them. Indeed, she managed in their case as in his that Mrs.
Willoughby, Miss Ainsley, or some one else should share in the conversation.

At last Bodine said to George, "I will now go to Mrs. Hunter's rooms and to Mrs. Bodine's residence,
and obtain what is most essential. Can you spare one of your servants to carry what I cannot?"

"Certainly, and I will go with you myself. Clancy and Sam can continue operations here."

"George," said his father, "as soon as the absolute necessity for entering buildings is over,
I wish you to keep away from them."

"Yes, father."

Ella added, "Remember, Mr. Houghton, that is a promise. Please let the words 'absolute necessity'
have their full meaning;" and her face was so full of solicitude that he said, "I promise you
also."

With a smile and flush she turned to her father whispering the tenderest cautions and emphasizing
the truth that but few things were essential, some of which she mentioned. Jube had become
like a faithful spaniel, the spirit of his young master reassuring him so as to feel his only
safety lay in obedience.

As George and Bodine went down the street they were saddened by the evidences of disaster on
every side. Even Meeting Street was still so obstructed as to be almost impassable for vehicles,
and in some places the ruins were still being searched for the dead. When they reached Mrs.
Hunter's home Bodine groaned inwardly, "How the poor girl must have suffered!" He added aloud,
"The mental distress caused by my helplessness during the last few hours, Mr. Houghton, has
been much harder to bear than the wound which cost me my leg and the suffering which followed."

"My dear captain," replied George, "your courage and clear head make you far less helpless
than hundreds who only use their legs to run with. Let me enter this shell of a house alone."

"That would be a sad commentary on your remark."

They speedily obtained what they deemed essential, and turned off the gas, which was still
burning. It was evident that no one had entered the house since its occupants had left it.
Mrs. Bodine's residence was comparatively uninjured, and when leaving it the captain was able
to lock the outer door.

On their way back to the square George stammered:

"Captain Bodine, it may be very bad taste to speak of such a matter now, but we do not know
what an hour will bring forth. I would like to have some understanding with you. Beyond that
there may be no need of anything further being said until all these troubles are over. I--I--well,
can I venture to make my former request? Your daughter has my happiness wholly in her hands.
I do not intend to embarrass her by a word until she is again in her own home, but I wish to
know that my hopes and efforts to win her regard have your sanction."

"How does your father feel about this?" Bodine asked gravely.

"He has given his full and cordial approval. Now that he has seen Miss Bodine she has won him
completely."

"Mr. Houghton, I owe to you her life which I value more than my own. You know we are lacking
in everything except pride and good name."

"My dear sir," interrupted George earnestly, "God has endowed your daughter as man could not.
You know I love and honor her for herself and always shall."

"You are right," said the father proudly, "and you are so truly a man, as well as a gentleman,
that you estimate my penniless daughter at her intrinsic worth. As far as my approval and good
wishes are concerned you have them."

Ella thought that George's face was wonderfully radiant when he appeared. As soon as she could
get a word alone with her father, she asked, "What have you been saying to Mr. Houghton?"

"I have only answered his second request that he might pay you his addresses."

"Oh, papa! what a tantalizing answer! What did he say, and what did you say, word for word?
Surely you didn't tell--"

"I only gave my consent, not yours. You are at perfect liberty to reject him," was the smiling
reply.

"That is well as far as it goes, but I wish to know every word."

Her father's heart was too heavy to permit continuance in a playful vein, and he told her substantially
what had been said. "Well," she concluded, with a complacent little nod, "I think I'll let
him pay his addresses a while longer. The absurd fellow to go and idealize me so! Time will
cure such folly, however. Papa, there's something troubling you besides the earthquake."

"Yes, Ella, and you must help me--you and Cousin Sophy." Then he told her how he thought matters
stood between Mara and Clancy, checked her first indignant words, explained and insisted until
she promised that she and Mrs. Bodine would shield Mara, and act as if she were as free as
she had ever been. "It will all come about yet, papa," Ella whispered, "for Mr. Clancy has
evidently committed himself to Miss Ainsley, although now I reckon he regrets it."

"Well, Ella dear, redouble your kindness and gentleness to Mara, and let matters over which
we have no control take their course."

Clancy had not been idle during the morning, finding in constant occupation, and even in the
incurring of risks, a relief to his perturbed thoughts. He and Sam procured a small cooking-stove,
and also set up the cross-sticks of a gypsy camp before the open side of the awning. Aun' Sheba
was placed in charge of the provisions, a responsibility in which Uncle Sheba wished to share,
but she said severely, "Mr. Buggone, you'se dun git yer lowance wid Sissy an' de chil'n."

Mr. Willoughby at last returned on an express-wagon, well loaded with articles which would
add much comfort in the enforced picnic. His face was sad and troubled as he greeted his wife.

"Oh, Jennie," he said, "our pretty home is such a wreck!"

"No matter, Hal, since you are safe and sound," was her cheery reply. "Come, girls, we can
now dress for dinner. I feel like a fool in this light silk."

They all eventually reappeared in costumes more suitable for camping.

Mrs. Bodine was also enabled to exchange her blanket wrapper for the one she was accustomed
to wear at home. With almost the zest of a girl she appreciated the picturesque elements of
their experiences; and her high spirits and courage were infectious. With the aid of Sam and
Jube, Aunt Sheba entered vigorously on preparations for dinner; a breeze with passing clouds
tempered the sun's hot rays; and hope again began to cheer as time passed without further disturbance.

CHAPTER XLVI

"ON JORDAN'S BANKS WE STAND"

Aunt Sheba had succeeded fairly well with the dinner, considering the materials and the appliances
available. Not one, however, was disposed to epicurean fastidiousness. The situation was gravely
discussed, and the experiences of friends related. Dr. Devoe gave cheering assurances that
injury to life and limb had been far less than might have been expected. "The first shock could
scarcely have come at a better time," he said. "If it had happened when the streets were full
of people, one shudders to think of the number that would have been killed or maimed. The fact
is, the great majority of casualties appear to have occurred as people were leaving their houses."

Mrs. Hunter received much attention from him, and she continued so ill that Mara did not leave
her. Bodine became convinced that a chance to speak with Mara in private might not be obtained
very speedily, and therefore, with kindly consideration for her feelings, resolved to write
that afternoon. He had nothing at hand better than pencil and note-book. He wrote:

"MY DEAR MARA--You have so many sorrows and anxieties now that I cannot wait longer in my effort
to relieve you of one of them. You should have been more frank with me; yet, so far from reproaching
you, I only remember that you are the daughter of my dearest friend, and that you need me as
protector and father rather than as lover. I appreciate your motive to sacrifice yourself for
my sake. Perhaps you will remember that I have warned you against this noble impulse of self-sacrifice--a
tendency, however, which may be carried much too far. You utterly misjudge me if you think
I would consciously accept any such sacrifice on your part. As far as I am concerned you are
free from any obligation whatever, except that of trusting me, and coming to me as Ella does,
as nearly as you can. You need a stanch and faithful protector against yourself, and such will
be HUGH BODINE."

Ella carried this missive into the little tent set apart for Mrs. Hunter. When Mara read the
note she hid it in her bosom, and buried her face in her hands. Ella tried to soothe her, assuring
her that she knew how it had all come about, and that it would make no difference in her love.

"Oh, Ella!" Mara sobbed, "my pride needed humbling, and I am overwhelmed in very truth. I thought
I was superior to you, and that my course was so heroic. The result is I have wronged and made
unhappy your father, the man I honor most in all the world. Oh, I feel now that it would have
been better if I had been buried under the ruins."

"Mara," said Ella firmly, "this is a time when we must make the best of everything--when we
should not waste our strength in grieving over what cannot be helped. Papa has explained everything
to me, and you will only wound him further if you do not comply with his wishes. He is very
resolute; and, in a matter of this kind, you could not move him a hair's-breadth. Please do
just what he asks now, and let time make future duty clearer."

Bodine was not astray in thinking that his note would relieve Mara's mind. Sad and humiliated
as she was, his words had taken her from a false position, and would enable her to give him
the filial love and homage with which her heart overflowed. Even if Clancy escaped from his
entanglement, which she much doubted, she felt that both should pay the penalty of their errors
in long probation.

As the afternoon wore away Mrs. Willoughby and Mrs. Bodine took some much-needed rest. Clancy
went down town to look after his own affairs. Mr. Houghton had a consultation with his confidential
man of business, at which George was present. Then the young fellow busied himself in perfecting
the camp appointments and securing more provisions.

Kern Watson and his family, Aun' Sheba and her husband, with old Tobe and a few friends and
neighbors, knelt around the remains of little Vilet as Mr. Birdsall offered a prayer. Bodine,
Ella, and George, with his two servants, were also present. Then the minister and a few others
helped the stricken father to bury his child. After the brief service the captain told Ella
that she must go and rest till he called her.

George ventured to walk back with the tearful girl and to say, "Miss Bodine, you seem to have
a hand to help and a heart to feel with every one."

"I should be callous indeed," she replied, "if I did not grieve at the death of that little
girl. She aided in my effort to earn a livelihood. I saw her daily, and no one could help becoming
fond of her, she was so good, and gentle, and quiet. Her poor father--how I pity him! The mute
anguish in his face was overpowering. He is the most quiet, but he grieves the most, and will
never get over it."

"I think you are right, Miss Bodine. I don't believe your intuitions would often lead you astray."

"I am very matter-of-fact," Ella replied.

"If I admit that, I must also add that one would have to do his level best to furnish the kind
of facts you would approve of."

"And I must also add, Mr. Houghton, that you are furnishing them in plenty. I can never try
to thank you, for I shouldn't know where to begin, or when to leave off."

"Please leave off now. Oh, Miss Bodine! I am so grateful for your kindness to my father, and
he is just as pleased as I am."

"Ah! I've at last caught you in a bit of selfishness," she said with a piquant smile. "You
would keep the privilege of thanking people while denying it to me;" and she vanished before
he could reply.

"Oh!" he groaned inwardly, "if any of these Southern fellows carry her off, I'm done for."

Miss Ainsley spent a very wretched afternoon. Clancy was away, Mrs. Willoughby worn out, and
she was left chiefly to her own resources, which were meagre indeed under the circumstances.
Instead of forgetting self in behalf of those less fortunate, she brooded over what she deemed
neglect. Mr. Willoughby talked to her for a time after dinner, and then busied himself in helping
others provide shelter against the coming night; loaning here and there some of the articles
which he had brought from his home. Throughout the day multitudes had been making preparations
to spend the night in the squares, vacant lots, and in spacious yards. Few had been so forehanded
as George Houghton, who had the advantage of abundant means, and good, fearless help in his
efforts. By this time, however, the square was well covered by almost every variety of hastily
improvised shelters, and the rays of the late afternoon sun brought out rainbow hues, strange
and picturesque effects, so diverse were the materials employed and the ingenuity in construction
which had been exercised.

Clancy had been almost reckless in his disposition to enter buildings, a risk which few others
would incur on that day. He returned after four o'clock with a large supply of provisions,
which he believed might be difficult to obtain should the shocks continue with greater violence.
So far from observing that he was pale from exhaustion, Miss Ainsley was inclined to be reproachful
that he had remained away so long. He listened wearily for a time, then answered, "I did not
think that I could be especially useful here. Men, like soldiers, must do what must be done.
I have taken pains to learn in your behalf that telegraphic and railroad communication will
soon be re-established, and I have arranged, as soon as a despatch can be sent, to have one
forwarded to your father's last address, assuring him that you are safe."

"My father is not at the place of his last address. If he is alive, he is trying to reach me,
and he will not leave me till he has taken me utterly away from all this horror and danger.
I hope you are ready to leave Charleston now."

"Leave my native city in its present plight! Why, Miss Ainsley, that would be almost like running
away and leaving my mother."

"Are brick and mortar more to you than I am?"

"Bricks and mortar do not make Charleston, but the people with whom I have always lived. I
will certainly take you to a place of safety, if your father cannot; but my duty is here. I
would not only lose the respect of every one, but also my own self-respect, if I did not cast
in my lot with this people until every vestige of ruin has disappeared."

"I'm sure I never wish to see the place again," she replied sullenly.

"It would be unjust for me to expect that you should feel as I do about it; but I am a citizen,
and you yourself would eventually despise me were I not faithful to my obligations."

This method of putting the case silenced her for the time. She knew that he had ascribed to
her a higher conception of duty than she possessed, and she believed that he was also aware
of the fact. Since she had gone so far with him she now wished him to be a blind, unquestioning
lover, wholly devoted and ready to fly with her at the first opportunity. The very qualities
which they had mutually admired were now seen on their seamy side. Her cosmopolitan spirit
which led her to sigh, "Anywhere so it be not Charleston," was now at war with his feeling
of almost passionate commiseration for his stricken birthplace; while she in turn found his
unyielding nature and keen perceptions which had afforded such pleasure in overcoming and meeting
were now not at all to her wishes. She had yielded to him as never before to any one, and was
intensely chagrined that he was not wholly subservient to her. If he should not become so she
could never think of him without humiliation. He had seen her undisguised in all her weakness.
She had thrown herself into his arms and implored his protection almost as unreservedly as
Mrs. Willoughby had clung to her husband. She had also left him when he was helpless, and again
when he was ill and weak. What she required now, therefore, was a blind idolatry; and so many
had offered this that she felt entitled to it, even though there should be no such devotion
on her part. If, in any sense, he should be critic as well as lover, he could make her exceedingly
uncomfortable; and she had a growing perception that he was comparing her with others, that
there was a lack of warmth in his words and manner, which even the circumstances could not
extenuate. She resolved, therefore, to teach him that she would tolerate nothing halfway in
his conduct. She was sitting on a chair while he reclined at her feet, and she determined that
he should be at her feet in a sense which had large meanings to her. So she rose and said coldly,
"Mr. Clancy, you seem to have so many obligations that I scarcely know where I come in."

Then she went toward the awning, intending to withdraw herself from his society until he should
become sufficiently humble. He rose in strong irritation, too weary even to be patient. At
this instant the shock which occurred at 5.16 passed over the city. In a second all her purposes
vanished; her abject terror returned, and she threw herself on his breast, and sobbing, buried
her face on his shoulder. Mrs. Willoughby also fled to her husband. As Mrs. Hunter had seemed
quieter Aun' Sheba had been watching in the place of Mara, who had sought a little rest beneath
the awning. She now came hastily out, but Clancy would not encounter her eyes. Indeed, his
false position overwhelmed him with increasing shame and confusion. He resolved in a sort of
desperation to meet Miss Ainsley's requirements as far as possible until she was safe in her
father's hands, and then to become free. If he had known how Mara's position enabled her to
interpret his own he would have been more resigned.

The shock which occurred so late in the day was a sad preparation for the night, to which all
looked forward with unspeakable dread. Such little confidence or cheerfulness as had been maintained
was dissipated; weariness and deferred relief increased the general dejection; only the bravest
could maintain their fortitude.

Mrs. Bodine's courage was due to a faith and a temperament which did not fail her. The veteran
remained quiet and steady, with soldier-like endurance, but Ella was becoming exhausted. She
had had very little sleep for a long time, and had passed through strong excitement. Indeed,
all her powers had been taxed severely. While she had more physical and moral courage than
most girls of her age possess, she, like the great majority, suffered much from fear at the
recurrence of the shocks. As night came on she yielded to the general depression.

Aun' Sheba also had almost reached the limits of her powers, a fact she could not help showing
as she set about preparations for supper. George instantly noted this. He had secured some
rest the night before, and possessed great capabilities of endurance combined with an unusually
fearless spirit. He also believed that this was his hour and opportunity, and that he could
do more to win Ella's favor that night by brave cheerful effort than by any amount of love-making
afterward. He little dreamed how completely won she was already. Her plan of receiving his
"address" indefinitely had already lost its charms. She now simply longed to lean her weary
head upon his shoulder and be petted and comforted a little. Unaware that the citadel could
be had at any time for the asking, George began his sapping and mining operations with great
vigor. He made Aun' Sheba sit down and give directions for supper, which he and his two colored
men carried out. Mrs. Bodine was the only one who would jest with him, and he had a word of
banter with her; and a cheery word for every one as occasion permitted.

"Bravo, George!" said Dr. Devoe, as they at last sat down to supper. "We vote you the Mark
Tapley of this occasion. I'm so used up that I've only energy enough to drink a cup of coffee."

Ella was about to wait on Mr. Haughton as before, but George intercepted her, saying, "You
are too tired."

"I would rather," she urged with downcast eyes. She bore the tray to the invalid, who looked
at her very kindly, as he said, "You are worn out, my dear."

"Please don't speak that way," she faltered. "I'm just that silly and tired that I can't stand
anything."

"You brave, noble girl! What haven't you stood and endured for the last few hours and weeks!
I have a very guilty conscience, Miss Bodine, and you only can absolve me."

"No one must be kind to me to-night, or I shall break down utterly;" and dashing a tear away,
she hastily withdrew.

George heaped her plate; but when he saw that she would touch nothing but her coffee, he looked
at her with such deep solicitude in his face that she sprang up and fled to the sheltering
awning, leaving him perplexed and troubled indeed. All were too well bred to make any remark
upon this little side scene. At her post of observation by the fire, and although her eyes
were full of tears, tributes to little Vilet, Aun' Sheba shook for a moment with suppressed
laughter. Motherly Mrs. Bodine soon followed Ella, and taking her in her arms, said soothingly,
"There, now, child, have a good cry, and you'll feel better. I wish to the Lord, though, that
all the world had as little to cry about as you, my dear."

"That's what provokes me so, cousin. It's so silly and weak."

"Oh, well, Ella, you're done beat out, as Aun' Sheba says; and that's the only trouble--that
and the blindness of yonder great boy, who expects to court you for months before venturing
to stammer some incoherent nonsense. Now, a Southern man--"

"Cousin Sophy, I won't listen to such words," said Ella, the hot blood coming into her pale
face. "He isn't a great boy; he's the bravest man I ever heard of. Now, when every one is giving
out, he is only the braver and stronger. If he is absurd enough to be afraid of me--Well, you
are the last one to speak so."

"There, there, child; this is my way of feeling your pulse and giving a little tonic," said
Mrs. Bodine, laughing. "You have indications of strong vitality, as the doctor would say. Bless
the big Vandal! If I were a girl, I'd set my cap at him myself."

"Oh, Cousin Sophy! Aren't you ashamed to work me up so? Well, that is the last glimmer of spunk
that I can show to-night."

"If I could only manage to give him a hint of your weak and defenceless condition--"

"Cousin Sophy, if you do anything of the kind--" and she almost sprang to her feet.

The old lady pulled her back, stopped her mouth with kisses, as she said, "I won't tease you
any more to-night." In a few moments she had soothed the girl to sleep.

George and Clancy now took full charge of the camp; for the members of their party, both white
and black, were so exhausted and depressed as to be unequal to much exertion. Clancy seemed
possessed by a sort of feverish restlessness. If he had been soothed and quieted when he returned
in the afternoon, he would have passed the danger point unharmed; but his jaded body and mind
had been stung into renewed action, and now he was fast losing the power to rest. Outraged
Nature was beginning to take her revenge, but no one except Bodine observed the fact. Again
putting self under his feet, he took Clancy aside, and said, "Pardon an old soldier, but experience
in the field has taught me when a man must stop. Dr. Devoe is exhausted and asleep, or I would
send him to you. So take honest advice from me. If you don't quiet your nerves and sleep, you'll
have trouble."

Clancy, in grateful surprise, thanked him warmly, and said he would rest later on. His hope
was that Miss Ainsley would retire, for in his present condition he felt that her voluble expressions
of fear and general dissatisfaction would be intolerable. At this juncture some one came and
said that a friend of his in another part of the square was ill and wished to see him. He explained
and excused himself to Miss Ainsley, who replied only by a cold, reproachful glance.

The light of day faded; the stars shone calmly above the strange scene, where lamps and candles
flickered dim and pale, like the hopes of those who had lighted them. The murmur of conversation
was lost in the loud singing of hymns, prayers and exhortations on the part of the negroes.

Mr. Birdsall had gathered many of his flock about him, and was conducting a religious service
in a fairly orderly manner. Both he and his people yielded somewhat to the intense excitement
of the occasion, but it was his intention that the religious exercises should cease at a reasonable
hour.

Kern, Sissy, and Aun' Sheba were sitting silently near him, and at last the minister said,
"Bruder Watson, you an' your wife will feel bettah if you express you'se feelin's, an' sing
a while. I reckon, if I say you an' you' wife will sing, they will be mo' quiet."

Kern assented to anything like a call of duty, and Mr. Birdsall resumed, "Fren's, in closin'
de meetin' fer dis ebenin', Bruder an' Sista Watson will sing a hymn togeder; an' we, respectin'
dere berebement, will listen. Dey have been greatly offlicted, for de Lawd has taken from dem
de lam' of dere bosoms. I ask you all now to listen to de expression of dere faith in dis night
ob sorrow. Den we mus' remembah dat de sick an' weak are in dis squar, and gib dem a chance
to res'."

Kern lifted up his magnificent voice, charged with the pent-up feeling of his heart, and his
wife joined him with her rich, powerful contralto.

  "On Jordan's banks we stan',
  An Jordan's stream roll by;
  No bridge de watahs span,
  De flood am risin high.
  Heah it foam an' roar, de dark flood tide,
  How shel we cross to de oder side?

  "De riber deep an strong,
  De wabes am bery cole;
  We see it rush along,
  But who can venture bole?
  Heah it foam an' roar, etc.

  "A little chile step down;
  It go in de riber deep.
  Kin little feet touch groun'
  Whar mountain billows sweep?
  Heah dem foam an roar, etc.

  "Dere comes a flash ob light,
  Ober de cole dark wabes;
  Dere come de angels' flight--
  See shinin' bans dat sabe,
  From de watah's foam, de dark flood tide,
  Fer de Lawd hab seen from de oder side.

  "Heah music swellin gran';
  Yes, songs of welcome ring,
  White wings de riber span
  De little chile to bring.
  Den let ole Jordan roar, de dark flood tide;
  We'se borne across to de oder side."

The melodious duet rose and fell in great waves of sound, silencing all other voices. Contrary
to Mr. Birdsall's expectations, religious fervor was only increased, and hoping to control
it he asked Kern and Sissy to lead in several familiar hymns. The negroes throughout the square
promptly responded, while not a few white refugees joined their voices to the mighty diapason
of sound, which often swelled into grand harmonies.

Kern soon afterward went on duty for the night; Mr. Birdsall confined himself to quiet ministrations
to his own people, and the leadership of the religious exercises fell into less judicious hands.

CHAPTER XLVII

LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF A NIGHT

Aun' Sheba, with a devotion which quite equalled that to her own offspring, returned to Mara
with the intention of watching Mrs. Hunter while the girl slept. She found Mrs. Bodine sitting
with Mara, but the old colored woman was received with a warmth of welcome and sympathy which
put her at ease at once. Mrs. Hunter had sunk into a kind of stupor rendering her unconscious
of what was passing, and therefore they conversed in low tones.

"I reckon we need have no secrets from Aun' Sheba," said Mrs. Bodine.

"No," answered Mara, taking her old mammy's hand. "If ever a motherless girl had a true friend
I have one in Aun' Sheba."

"Yes, honey, you'se right dar, an' I hopes you git right on some oder tings. I put a spoke
in de hon'ble business an' I'se ready to put mo' in." She then briefly related her interview
with Clancy and concluded, "Missy Mara, fo' da Lawd, wot kin you do but mar'y Marse Clancy
arter wot happen wen he come fer you an' ole missus?"

Mara made no reply, but sat with her face buried in her hands.

"Aun' Sheba, this matter is all settled and settled honorably, too, as far as it can be. Captain
Bodine has released Mara in words of the utmost kindness."

"Well, now, he am quality!" ejaculated Aun' Sheba in hearty appreciation.

"But," sobbed Mara, "it just breaks my heart--"

"No, honey lam', it won' break you heart, nor his nuther. Doin' what's right an' nat'ral an
'cordin to de Lawd doan break no hearts. It's de oder ting wot dus in de long run, an' mar'in'
gen'ly means a long run. You'd hab ter begin by lyin' 'miscuously, as I tole Marse Clancy,
an no good ud come ob dat."

"Well, it is all settled as far as Mara is concerned," said Mrs. Bodine, with a little laugh,
"and there need be no 'miscuous lying. How Mr. Clancy will get out of his scrape remains to
be seen."

"Well, I tells you how he git out. I'se keep an eye on dat limpsey-slimpsey runaway as well
as on de pots an kittles, an she's gwine ter run away agin from dis yere town jes as soon as
de way open. Dat'll be de las you see ob her."

"She's had a hard time of it, poor thing," said Mrs. Bodine, charitably, "and we can't expect
her to feel about Charleston as we do. The question is, will Mr. Clancy feel obliged to follow
her eventually?"

"I tink he's 'bliged not ter."

"Well, Aun' Sheba, I'm glad you have such strong religious ideas of marriage."

"I'se feerd I ain't bery 'ligious 'bout anyting. I put myself on 'bation while ago, but I kin'er
forgits 'bout dat 'bation, I hab so much to tink ob."

Mrs. Bodine began to laugh as she said, "I thought you were a sensible woman, Aun' Sheba."

"Yes, I know. I did tole Marse Clancy dat I hab hoss-sense."

"Then you were lying 'miscuously."

"How dat, missus?"

"Why, Aun' Sheba, do you think you have been hiding your light under a bushel basket all this
time? Old Hannah--poor old Hannah! I wonder what has become of her--she and Mara have told
me how you do for the sick and poor. Don't you know that the Bible says, 'Inasmuch as ye have
done it unto one of the least of these My brethren ye have done it unto Me'? You've sent me
nice things more than once. I'm 'one of the least of these.' You don't do these things to be
seen of men."

"No, nor I doesn't do it kase I specs ter git anoder string to my harp bime-by. I does it kase
I'se kin'er sorry fer de po' critters."

"Exactly. That is why He fed the hungry and healed the sick. He was sorry for them. Come, Aun'
Sheba, don't be foolish any more."

"I feels it kin'er sumptious ter be so shuah."

"Now, Aun' Sheba, you are doing wrong," said Mrs. Bodine, gravely and earnestly. "The Lord
has been very patient with you--more so than I would be. If I had made you promises and you
kept saying, 'I don't feel sure about them,' I'd give you a piece of my mind."

"Lor, missus, how you puts it! Is it dataway?"

"Certainly."

"Well, den, I jes takes myse'f off 'bation. I'se gwine ter hang onter de promises. Lawd, Lawd,
missus, I s'posed I'd hab ter groan so dey heah me all ober de square fo' I could be 'ligious."

"Oh, dear, hear it now! Such groaning makes every one else groan. The voice that God hears
is the wish of the heart and not a hullabaloo. How shall we get through the night if this keeps
up? If you'll help me to my quarters I'll try to get what rest I can."

When Aun' Sheba returned, Mara insisted on her lying down till she was called. "I shall do
something in this time of trouble except make trouble," said the girl resolutely, and she would
take no denial.

Clancy found that his friend needed much attention, which he gave until warned by his own symptoms
that he must see a physician. He found George lying on a blanket by a small fire, and that
all the others were either sleeping or resting. "I declare I hate to waken Dr. Devoe," he said,
"but I feel as if I were going to be ill."

George felt the hand of his friend, and sprang up, saying, "I'll waken Dr. Devoe with or without
your leave."

After a brief examination the physician said:

"Why did you not come to me before?"

Clancy explained that he had been caring for a sick friend, to which the doctor replied testily:

"I don't believe he was half so ill as you are. Well, you must obey me now as long as you are
rational, and I fear that won't be very long." And he promptly placed Clancy under the open
part of the awning, which was the sleeping-room for the men by night, and general living-room
by day. Having given his patient a remedy, he returned and said, "Here you are, too, Houghton,
up and around. Do you wish to break down also?"

"You forget, doctor, that I had some sleep last night. Feel my pulse."

"Slightly febrile, but then I know what's the matter with you. If I were not so old and bald-headed
I'd cut out a slow coach like you. I'm half a mind to try it as it is."

"Go ahead, doctor. You'll be only one more. How many are there now, do you suppose?"

"I know how many there should be after what I've seen. But bah! you Northern young chaps lay
siege to a girl at such long range that she surrenders to some other fellow before you find
it out."

"Would you have me call her now, shake her awake, and propose?" asked George, irritably.

"No, I'd have you fight shy and give me a chance. There, you are too far gone for a jest. What
are you up for?"

"Because I'm not sleepy, for one thing, and I think some one should be on guard. What's more,
I don't like the way those negroes are performing. They seem to be going wild."

"Yes, and they are doing a lot of harm to the sick and feeble. If they don't stop at midnight
I'll find out whether there's any law in this city. I say, Houghton, since you are going to
sit up, give Clancy this medicine every half hour, and call me at twelve." He then wrapped
himself in a blanket and was asleep in a minute.

If George had been wide awake before, the doctor's raillery so increased his impatience and
worry that for a time he paced up and down before the fire. Was he faint-hearted in wooing
Ella? Suppose some bold Southerner should forestall him? The thought was torture; yet it seemed
ungenerous and unkind to seek her openly while she was in a sense his guest and dependent upon
him. "Well," he growled at last, "I won't do it. When she first spoke to me she said I was
a gentleman, and I'll be hanged if I don't remain one and take my chances."

He threw himself down again by the fire with his back to the awning. Before very long he heard
a light step. Turning hastily he saw Ella's startled face by the light of the fire.

"Oh, Mr. Houghton! is it you? Pardon me for disturbing you," and she was about to retreat.

He was on his feet instantly and said, "You will only disturb me by going away, that is--I
mean if you are not tired and sleepy."

"There is such a dreadful noise I can't sleep any more," she replied, hesitating a moment.

"Suppose--you might help me watch a little while then," he stammered.

"I'll watch if you will rest."

"Certainly;" and he brought her a chair and then reclined near her feet.

"But I meant that you should sleep."

"I only promised to rest."

"But you need sleep if any one does. I've had a good nap and feel much better. How late is it?"

"Nearly eleven, and time for Clancy's medicine." When he returned he told her about Clancy.

"Poor fellow!" she said, sympathetically,

"Clancy seems to have trouble on his mind. We all have enough, but he more than his share."

"I should think you would be worried out of your senses with so many people to think about
and care for. No wonder you can't sleep."

"Thoughts of people do not keep me awake, and I am glad to say my father's resting quietly.
He and your father are born soldiers."

"Your father's to blame for my making a fool of myself at the supper-table. He spoke so kindly
and sympathetically, and I was so tired and silly that I couldn't stand anything. Then you
looked reproachfully at me because I couldn't eat all you sent--enough to make Uncle Sheba ill."

"Now, Miss Bodine, I didn't look at you reproachfully."

"Who's that snoring over there?"

"Dr. Devoe. My facial muscles must have been shaken out of shape to have given you so false
an impression. Anyhow, I seem to have driven you away, and I've been miserable ever since."

"Why, Mr. Houghton! The idea of letting a tired girl's weakness disturb you! You will soon
be as ill as Mr. Clancy."

"I'm only stating a fact."

"Well, facts are very queer nowadays. I suppose we shouldn't be surprised at anything."

"Yet you are a continual surprise to me, Miss Bodine. Do you think I've forgotten anything
since you carried Mrs. Bodine out of her tottering house?"

"Oh, Mr. Houghton! my memory goes further back than that. I can see a tall man leap into a
sinking boat and--and--oh, why did you sink with it? My father's agony over the thought that
you had died for him turned his hair white."

"I couldn't help sinking, Miss Bodine. If it hadn't been for that blasted pole--Well, perhaps
it saved all our lives, for my boat was overloaded as it was. But don't think about that affair.
It might have turned out worse."

"It might indeed. If you knew how we all felt when we thought you were drowned!"

"Well, I thank God that I happened to be near."

"Happened! You seemed to have a presentiment of evil, and kept near."

"I was facing a certainty of evil then, Miss Bodine. I expected to go North in a few days,
and feared I might not see you again. There, I shouldn't speak so now. My memory goes back
further than yours. I remember a blue-eyed stranger who drew near to me when I was facing a
street bully, as if she meditated becoming my protector. I saw a noble woman's soul in those
clear eyes, and she said 'I was a gentleman.' I must remember her words now with might and
main. All that I ask is that you won't let any one else--that you will give me a chance when
in your own home. Your father has--"

"Mr. Houghton, is it not time for Mr. Clancy's medicine?"

"Yes, and past time," he replied, ruefully.

When he returned she said demurely, "I think I can promise what you ask. Now surely, since
your mind is at rest, you can sleep. I will watch."

"I'm too happy to sleep."

"How absurd!"

"Oh, the shock this morning did not disturb me half so much as to see those fellows around
with their devouring eyes."

"Mr. Houghton, don't you think that if we asked them, those colored people would be less loud?
It must be dreadful for those who are sick, and there are so many."

"They will be brutal indeed if they don't yield to you," and he led the way to the nearest
centre of disturbance.

"Oh, see! Mr. Houghton, there's our old Hannah."

He saw an old woman swaying back and forth, her lips moving spasmodically, but uttering no
sound. The crowd watched her in a sort of breathless suspense. Suddenly she burst out with
the hymn, "Oh, Raslin' Jacob! let me go," and the throng joined in the mighty refrain. The
women swayed to and fro violently, all going together in a sort of rhythmic motion, meantime
clapping their hands in an ecstasy of emotion. A man dropped to the earth "converted." He yelled
rather than prayed for mercy, then suddenly swooned and became rigid as a corpse. Others, both
men and women, were prostrated also; and to bring as many as possible into this helpless condition
appeared to be the general object as far as any purpose was manifested. The crowd seemed to
regard poor, demented Hannah as inspired, for a space was kept clear before her. When she began
to sway in her weird fashion, and her face to twitch, she was the priestess and the oracle.
The hymn she began was taken up first by two self-appointed exhorters, then by all.

"Oh, Hannah!" cried Ella, when her voice could be heard, "do stop and come away. You are harming
the sick and the injured."

The old woman started, and on seeing the girl rushed forward, crying, "Down on you knees. Now
you chance. Pray, bruders, pray, sistahs. De quakes neber stop till a white man or woman converted--converted
till dere proud heads in de bery dus'"--and she sought to force Ella on her knees.

In a moment Ella was surrounded by the worshippers, whose groans, shouts, prayers and ejaculations
created Pandemonium. The girl was terrified, but George encircled her with his arm, and thundered,
"Give way. I'll brain the first man who stops us."

Awed for an instant they yielded to George's vigorous push out and away, and then returned
to their former wild indulgence of religious frenzy.

For several paces after their escape he seemed to forget that his arm was still around Ella,
nor did she remind him. Suddenly he removed it, saying, "Pardon me, Miss Bodine, I am that
enraged with those lunatics that I'd like to give them something to howl about."

"Please be calm, Mr. Houghton," said Ella gently. "I'm not afraid now, and should not have
been afraid at all. I know these people better than you do. They wouldn't have harmed us, and
I fear they don't know any better. It's only their looks, tones, and words that seem blasphemous,
that are frightful. It was I who took you there and I should have known better."

"Oh, Ella!--beg pardon--Miss Bodine, what a savage a man would be if you couldn't manage him!"

"Then promise you won't go near those people any more."

"You are too brave a girl to ask that when you learn that Dr. Devoe is going to tackle them
with the police if they don't quiet down by midnight."

They spoke in low tones as he again held her hand, while they picked their way among the extemporized
shelters and uneasy refugees in the square. As they approached their own quarters she faltered,
"I'm not very brave tonight, and I have long since learned that you are only too brave."

He paused, still retaining her hand as he said, "What a strange scene this is! How wild and
unearthly those sounds now seem! How odd it all is--our homes yonder deserted and we here under
the stars. It's stranger than any dream I ever had, yet if it were a dream I would not wish
to wake with you--"

"Mr. Houghton, what's that, that, that?"

Far oft in the southeast there were sounds like faint explosions which grew rapidly louder.
Instinctively he drew her nearer, and saw her face grow white even in the faint radiance of
the stars.

"Oh!" she gasped shuddering as the deep roar of the coming earthquake began. Then his arm drew
her close, and she hid her face on his breast.

"Ella," he said solemnly, "I love you, God knows if these words were my last I would still
say I love you."

The mighty roar gradually deepened, and with it blended the cry of thousands; the earth quivered
and swayed, then the thunder passed on, accompanied by sounds like the distant crash of falling
buildings.

George kissed the bowed head and whispered, "There, it's over and we are safe."

"Oh, thank God! you were with me!" she sobbed.

"May I not be with you always, Ella?"

"God grant it! Oh, George, George, I would have leaped after you into the water if they had
not held me. How could I do without you now?"

"Come, my brave little wife, come with me to my father and reassure him."

"George," cried Mr. Houghton.

"We are here," he answered, drawing aside the screen.

"We?"

"Yes, Ella and I. That last shock has rather hastened matters."

"Ella, my dear child! Truly God is bringing good out of evil;" and he took the girl into his
arms. Then he added, "You'll forgive me and be my own dear daughter?"

"Yes, Mr. Houghton. You'll find I am rich in love if nothing else."

"Ah! Ella dear, the world seems going to pieces, and my wealth with it, but love only grows
more real and more precious."

"My father's calling me;" and kissing him a hasty good-by she vanished.

Miss Ainsley again ran shrieking out, calling upon Clancy, but Dr. Devoe met her and drew her
away from his muttering, half-conscious patient. When she became sufficiently quiet he told
her that Clancy was dangerously ill, and that nothing must be said or done to excite him. This
seemed to her only another proof of general disaster, and, in almost abject tones, she begged,
"Oh, doctor, make me sleep till--my father will surely come to-morrow, and then I can get away."

Her entreaty was so loud that even Mara could not help hearing her. The physician rather contemptuously
thought that it would be better for all if she were quiet, and gave the anodyne. So far from
feeling sympathy for Clancy she was almost vindictive toward him for having failed her.

Fear, uncontrolled, becomes one of the most debasing of the emotions. It can lead to panic
even among soldiers with arms in their hands; sailors will trample on women and children in
their blind rush for the boats; men will even deny their convictions, their faith, and cringe
to brutal power; crimes the most vile are committed from fear, and fear had virtually obliterated
womanhood in Miss Ainsley's soul. She was in a mood to accept any conditions for the assurance
of safety, and she gave not a thought to any one or anything that offered no help. With the
roar of the earthquake still in her ears, and in the dark midnight she knew there was no help,
no way of escape, and so with the impulse of the shipwrecked who break into the spirit room
she besought the opiate which could at least bring oblivion. Her eyes, which could be so beautiful,
had the wild, hunted look of an animal, and her form, usually grace itself, writhed into distortions.
Her demoralization under the long-continued terror was complete, and all were glad when she
became unconscious and could be hidden from sight. As Aun' Sheba made her way to her own household
she grunted, "A lun'tic out ob a 'sylem wouldn' mar'y dat gal if he seed wot I seed."

CHAPTER XLVIII

GOOD BROUGHT OUT OF EVIL

There were brave spirits and Heaven-sustained souls in the little camp which falls under our
immediate observation; and outward calm was soon restored, yet it was long before any one could
sleep again. Although she had trembled like a leaf, Mara had not left her watch by Mrs. Hunter,
nor had Aun' Sheba till some moments after the shock. Then Mrs. Bodine joined the girl with
soothing and reassuring words. She did not tell Mara, however, of Clancy's illness, feeling
that no additional burden should be imposed until it was necessary. Mr. and Mrs. Willoughby
sat together by the fire; so also did Ella, with her head upon her father's breast, as she
told of the great joy which robbed the night of so much of its terror. Old Tobe, with Sam and
Jube, crouched on the opposite side of the low, flickering blaze, which lighted up in odd effect
the white wool and wrinkled visage of the aged negro. In some respects he and Mr. Houghton
were alike. The scenes they were passing through toned down their fiery domineering spirits
into resignation and fortitude.

George was restless, strong and inspired rather than awed by the recent events. He knew that
Ella's eyes followed him as he came and went from his father's bedside, waited on Clancy, and
made himself useful in other ways. A man would be craven indeed who could not be brave under
such circumstances.

Beyond his camp, scenes impossible to describe were taking place. White clergymen were going
from group to group, and from shelter to shelter, speaking words of cheer and hope. Physicians
were busy among those who needed physical aid; husbands soothing wives, and parents their sobbing
children.

On the edge of the square near the street the groans and cries of a woman began to draw the
restless people who always run to any point of disturbance.

"George," shouted Dr. Devoe. The young man responded promptly. "Keep this crowd away--the vulgar
wretches!"

A woman of refinement and wealth, who with her husband had clung to their adjacent home until
the last shock occurred, was in the throes of childbirth.

No one could stand a moment before the young man's words and aspect, and in a few moments he
secured all the privacy possible.

Eventually he bore the almost swooning mother to the inner room under the awning, where a bed
had been made for her, while Mrs. Bodine and Mrs. Willoughby cared for the child. The husband
was so prostrated by anxiety for his wife as to be almost helpless himself.

Among a certain class of the negroes, to religious excitement was added the wild terror of
the earthquake, and they were simply becoming frantic in their actions and expressions. George,
Dr. Devoe, Mr. Willoughby and some others went to the large group of which old Hannah and two
great burly exhorters were the inspiration. They commanded and implored them to be more quiet,
but received only insolent replies.

"We'se savin' de city which de wickedness ob you white folks is 'stroyin'," one of the shepherds
shouted; "an' we'se gwine to cry loud and mighty till mawnin'."

At this moment, George espied Uncle Sheba, who certainly appeared, in the general craze, to
have a sense of his besetting sin; for he was yelling at the top of his lungs, "I'se gwine
ter wuck in de mawnin'."

Suddenly there burst through the crowd an apparition before which he quailed; his jaw dropped
and his howl degenerated into a groan. Aun' Sheba had heard and recognized his voice, and she
went through the throng like a puffing tug through driftwood. "Mister Buggone," she said, with
the sternness of fate, "ef yer doan stop yer noise you'se 'lowance stop heah and now. Yer'll
hab ter wuck shuah or starbe, fer if yer doan come wid me now yer neber come agin."

Uncle Sheba went away with her, meek as a lamb.

The others were too frenzied even to notice this little scene. George, Mr. Willoughby, and
some others were with difficulty restrained by the cooler Dr. Devoe. "Go with me to the station-house,"
he said. "In behalf of my patients I will demand that this nuisance be abated."

The officer on duty returned with them, backed by a resolute body of men. The two exhorters
were told to take their choice between silence and the station-house. There is usually a good
deal of selfish method in such leaders' madness, and they sullenly retired. Poor, demented
Hannah was bundled away, and comparative quiet restored through the square.

The weary hours dragged on; the uneasy earth caused no further alarms that night. At last the
dawn was again greeted with thankfulness beyond words.

There was no paper that morning, for compositors and pressmen could not be induced to work,
and at first there was a feeling of great uncertainty and depression.

Mrs. Bodine's spirit was again like a cork on the surface. At breakfast she remarked, "We had
an awful time last night, but here we are still alive, and able to take some nourishment. I
expect the Northern papers will say that this wicked and rebellious old city is getting its
deserts; but we shall soon have help and cheer from our Southern friends."

"I think you will find yourself mistaken, Mrs. Bodine, about the North," said George.

"Oh. you!" cried the old lady, laughing, "you look at the South through a pair of blue eyes.
I reckon we shall have to send you and Ella North as missionaries."

George in his pride and happiness could not keep his secret, and had been congratulated with
honest heartiness. He therefore responded gayly, "When I take Ella North even earthquakes won't
keep young fellows from coming here to see if any more like her are left."

Again Ella remarked, nodding significantly, "Time will cure him, Cousin Sophy."

Nevertheless the illness of Mrs. Hunter and Clancy, and the precarious condition of the young
mother, cast a gloom over the little party. Clancy's pulse indicated great exhaustion, and
he only recognized people when he was spoken to. Dr. Devoe prohibited any one from going near
him except himself and George. Miss Ainsley uttered no protest at this. She truly felt that
after the events of the night all was over between them. In a sort of sullen shame she said
little and longed only for the hour which would bring her father and escape.

Mr. Ainsley arrived during the morning, and George entertained him hospitably. His daughter
clung to him, imploring him to take her away at the first possible moment. He was much distressed
at Clancy's condition, and offered to take him North also; but Dr. Devoe said authoritatively,
"He is too ill to be moved or even spoken to." Mrs. Willoughby and her husband were determined
that Miss Ainsley should not give her father a false impression, and spoke freely of Clancy's
great exertions. "Yes," added Dr. Devoe, "I feel guilty myself. He should have been taken in
hand yesterday afternoon and compelled to be quiet in mind and body, but I had so many to look
after, and he seemed the embodiment of energy and fearlessness. Well, it's too late now, and
we must do the best we can for him."

That day Mr. Ainsley and his daughter left the city. She gave vivid descriptions of the catastrophe
at the North, but her friends remarked upon her fine reserve and modesty in speaking of her
personal experiences. Her faultless veneer was soon restored, and we suppose she is pursuing
her career of getting the most and best out of life after a fashion which has too many imitators.

Poor Mara's name was significant of her experience of that day and others which followed. In
the morning she learned of Clancy's illness, and it was eventually found that her voice and
touch had a soothing effect possessed by no other.

We have followed our characters through the climax of their experiences, and need only to suggest
what further happened. They, with others, realized more fully the conditions of their lot and
the extent of the disaster.

With an ever-increasing courage and fortitude the people faced the situation, and resolved
to build anew the fortunes of their city. Communication with the outside world permitted messages
of sympathy and far more. In the Sunday morning issue of the "News and Courier" the following
significant editorial appeared: "There is no break in the broad line of brotherly love throughout
the United States. All hearts in this mighty country throb in unison. In the North as in the
South, in the West as in the East, there is a sincere sorrow at the calamity which has befallen
Charleston, and there is shining evidence of a beneficent desire to give the suffering people
the assistance of both act and word."

Boston, the former headquarters of the abolitionists, and the veterans of the Grand Army vied
with Southern cities and ex-Confederates in a spontaneous outpouring of sympathy and help.
The hearts of a proud people were at last subdued, but it was by hands stretched out in fraternal
love and not to strike.

In the city squares and other places of refuge there still continued sad and awful experiences,
one of which was graphically described by the city editor of the journal already quoted.

At nearly midnight on Friday there had been a cessation in the shocks for about twenty-four
hours, and the people were resting quietly. Then came a convulsion second only in severity
to the first one which had wrought such widespread ruin. "It had scarcely died away," to quote
from the account referred to, "before there rose through the still night air in the direction
of the public squares and parks the now familiar but still terrible cries of thousands of wailing
voices, united in one vast chorus, expressive only of the utmost human misery. For a while
this sound was heard above all other sounds, suggesting vividly to the mind what has been told
by survivors of the scene that follows the sinking of a great ship at sea, when its living
freight is left struggling with the waves; and this impression was heightened to the distant
auditor by the gradual diminution in the volume of the cries, as though voice after voice were
being silenced, as life after life were quenched beneath the tossing waves."

Dr. Devoe advised Mr. Houghton to leave the city, but he said, "No, I shall remain with my
children; I shall share in the fortunes of the city which is henceforth to be my home."

Mrs. Hunter did not long survive, but she became quiet and rational before her end. To Mara's
imploring words she replied calmly, "No, my time is near; and I feel that it is best. I belong
to the old order of things, and have lingered too long already. I may have been mistaken in
my feelings, and wrong in my enmities, but I had great provocation. Now I forgive as I hope
to be forgiven. God grant, dear child, that you may have brighter days."

A sad little company followed her to the cemetery, and as they laid her to rest, they also
spread over her memory the mantle of a broad, loving charity.

For a time it seemed as if brighter days could never come to Mara, for Clancy's life flickered
like the light of an expiring candle. At last the fever broke and he became rational, the pure,
open air conducing to his recovery. He was very weak and his convalescence was slow, measuring
the mental and physical strain through which he had passed. Never had a poor mortal more faithful
watchers, never was life wooed back from the dark shore by more devoted love. "Live, live,"
was ever the language of Mara's eyes, and happiness gave him the power to live.

Captain Bodine carried out both the letter and spirit of his note. While he was very gentle,
he was also very firm with Mara, expressing only paternal affection and also exerting paternal
authority. At proper times he told her to go and rest in tones which she obeyed.

One day when Clancy was able to sit up a little, he took her aside and said, "Mara, you and
Mr. Clancy are in one sense comparatively alone in the world, although you have many stanch
friends. His health, almost his life, requires the faithful, watchful care which you can best
give, and which you are entitled to give. It is his wish and mine, also Cousin Sophy's, that
you should be married at once."

Again she gave him that luminous look which he so well remembered--an expression so full of
homage, affection and sympathy that for the first time tears came into his eyes. "There, my
child," he said, "you have repaid me, you have compensated me for everything. There is no need
of words"--and he turned hastily away.

When the sun was near the horizon Mara was married, not in old St. Michael's, as her mother
had been, but in the large tent which of late had sheltered her lover. Her pastor employed
the old sacred words to which her mother had responded; and Captain Bodine, with the impress
of calm, victorious manhood on his brow, gave her away in the presence of the little group
of those who knew her best and loved her most. We may well believe from that time forth her
gentleness and happiness would change the meaning of her name.

At last all ventured back to their homes. Mr. Houghton was so averse to parting with Ella that
he equalled George in his impatience for the marriage. Aun' Sheba, who supervised preparations
for the wedding breakfast, declared, "It am jes jolly ter see old Marse Houghton. As fer Missus
Bodine, it pears as if she'd go off de han'l."

Then father and son took the blue-eyed bride to the North on a visit, in what George characterized
as a "sort of triumphal procession."

The cabins of Aun' Sheba and Kern Watson were restored to a condition better than their former
state, but Uncle Sheba discovered that the good old times of his wife's easy tolerance were
gone. She put the case plainly, "Mr. Buggone, de Bible says dat dem dat doesn't wuck mus'n't
eat, an' I'se gwine ter stick ter de Bible troo tick an' tin. You'se able to wuck as I be,
an' you'se 'lowance now 'pends on you'se wuck."

We have already seen that Uncle Sheba was one of those philosophers who always submit to the
inevitable.

Late one September night the moonbeams shone under the moss-draped branches of a live oak in
a cemetery. They brought out in snowy whiteness a small headstone on which were engraved the
words, "Yes, Vilet." Sitting by the grave and leaning his head against the stone was Kern Watson,
but his calm, strong face was turned heavenward where his little girl waited for him "shuah."

THE END