Christianity has nothing to fear in the great struggle that is being carried on for the truth’s
sake. But it has lost much for want of investigation. Our free school and Sunday-school systems
are making the rising generation better acquainted with both science and the Bible, and a thorough
acquaintance with both is the one thing most needed in order to a better future in religion,
as well as in every other human interest. The time is come when men will no longer be content
to listen to grave errors and keep silence. Every truth is being put to the test of logic,
as well as fact. It is natural to abhor a contradiction, and it is right. All truth is harmonious.
I am glad that harmony is demanded in religious teaching; I often think of pulpit teaching
away back thirty and forty years ago. It used to be very popular in some parts to tell people
that they could do nothing to better their condition in a future state, and, at the same time,
exhort them to do better.

I heard of three brothers, George, William and James. George and William were “Hard-shell Baptist”
preachers; James made no profession. His wife was a member of George’s congregation. She was
a great “scold.” One day James failed to do just as she wished him, and, as a matter of course,
he received quite a lecture; finally the woman told him that it was a great pity that he could
not be a good man, like his brother George or brother William, and fell to exhorting him to
do better. He finally became impatient and said, “Yes! George and William were too lazy to
work, and I called them to preach. They both stood it until the third call, and then put on
their hats and went. You belong to George’s church, and I go there with you to hear him preach.
He tells me that I can do nothing, and you tell me that I can do nothing; and, now, what in
the h—l do you want me to do?” Such inconsistent teaching was always repugnant to common sense
and natural reason. There are many persons yet teaching the old falsehood that man is passive
in his conversion, notwithstanding the fact that men are imperatively commanded to convert—turn,
that their sins may be blotted out. Men are yet found in some Protestant pulpits who spend
a great deal of their time praying the Lord to convert sinners. It is often the case, in their
own estimation, that the Lord gives no heed to their prayers; but this has happened so frequently
that it does not seem to trouble them. It has been a very short time since I heard a minister
advocating what he was pleased to call “miraculous conversion.” I thought, if you are right
in that matter, why did the Heavenly Father command his love, commended in the Savior’s death,
preached to every creature, and still refuse to convert every creature? What difference does
it make to me whether the Lord passed me by before He made Adam, or passed me by on yesterday?
And if He refuses to send His spirit and convert me until the last, and I die in my sins and
am lost, who is to blame? What is the difference between His neglect to convert me and the
old Calvinistic idea that Christ did not die for me? What is the difference between the spirit
of God being partial to communities—going into one and converting a great many persons and
passing others by—and God Himself being partial? And why does the Spirit not convert all the
unwilling sinners in the community where it does convert sinners? These are questions that
have been asked in a great many hearts before they yielded themselves up to skepticism and
infidelity.

In the present stage of critical investigation it is well for all preachers to remember that
there is but one question involving this whole matter of conversion and pardon, and that is
the question coupled with the Judgment; it is not, How much did the Heavenly Father love me?
He loved all men. It is not, How much did Jesus do for me? He tasted death for every man. It
is not, How much has the Spirit done for me? It gave the gospel to all nations, as the power
of God unto salvation to every man that believeth. The one, and only, question in the Judgment
is, What have I done for myself? What are the deeds done in my body? the deeds which I have done.

Christianity is right thinking and doing; all that is to be attained in the religion of Christ
is enjoyed in an upright life. Every theory that conflicts with this grand sentiment is smoked
with the darkness of the dark ages. The Father of Spirits made us with the power of choice—gave
us the liberty to choose—and we all may have, in the future, just such a state as we will.
The Father loved all; the Son died for all; and the Spirit says to all, COME!

The great struggle that is now going on between Christianity and unbelief is accomplishing
two good things: First, it is making it hard for professors of religion to hold their errors,
or cover up hypocrisy; and second, it is making it hard for infidels and skeptics to hold on
to their flimsy objections to the Christian religion. Let the struggle go on!

THE RECORDS RESPECTING THE DEATH OF THOMAS PAINE.

That he bitterly regretted the writing and the publishing of the Age of Reason we have incontestable
proof. During his last illness he asked a pious young woman, Mary Roscoe, a Quakeress, who
frequently visited him, if she had ever read any of his writings, and being told that she had
read very little of them he inquired what she thought of them, adding, “From such a one as
you I expect a true answer.” She told him, when very young she had read his Age of Reason,
but the more she read of it the more dark and distressed she felt, and she threw it into the
fire. “I wish all had done as you,” he replied, “for if the devil ever had an agency in any
work, he has had it in writing that book.”—Journal of Stephen Grellet, 1809.

Dr. Manley, who was with him during his last hours, in a letter to Cheetham, in 1809, writes:
“He could not be left alone night or day. He not only required to have some person with him,
but he must see that he or she was there, and if, as it would sometimes happen, he was left
alone, he would scream and halloo until some person came to him. There was something remarkable
in his conduct about this period, which comprises about two weeks immediately preceding his
death. He would call out during his paroxysms of distress, without intermission, ‘O Lord, help
me! God, help me! Jesus Christ, help me! O Lord, help me!’ etc., repeating the same expressions
without the least variation, in a tone of voice that would alarm the house. It was this conduct
which induced me to think that he abandoned his former opinions, and I was more inclined to
that belief when I understood from his nurse, who is a very serious, and I believe pious woman,
that he would occasionally inquire, when he saw her engaged with a book, what she was reading,
and being answered, and at the same time asked whether she should read aloud, he assented,
and would appear to give particular attention. The doctor asked him if he believed that Jesus
Christ is the Son of God? After a pause of some minutes he replied, ‘I have no wish to believe
on that subject.’ ‘For my own part,’ says the doctor, ‘I believe that had not Thomas Paine
been such a distinguished infidel he would have left less equivocal evidences of a change of
opinion.’ ”

The Roman Catholic Bishop, Fenwick, says: “A short time before Paine died I was sent for by
him.” He was prompted to do this by a poor Catholic woman who went to see him in his sickness,
and who told him if anybody could do him any good it was the Catholic priest. “I was accompanied
by F. Kohlman, an intimate friend. We found him at a house in Greenwich, now Greenwich street,
New York, where he lodged. A decent-looking, elderly woman came to the door, and inquired whether
we were the Catholic priests; ‘for,’ said she, ‘Mr. Paine has been so much annoyed of late
by other denominations calling upon him, that he has left express orders to admit no one but
the clergymen of the Catholic church.’ Upon informing her who we were, she opened the door
and showed us into the parlor. ‘Gentlemen,’ said the lady, ‘I really wish you may succeed with
Mr. Paine, for he is laboring under great distress of mind every since he was told by his physicians
that he can not possibly live, and must die shortly. He is truly to be pitied. His cries, when
left alone, are heart-rending. “O Lord, help me!” he will exclaim during his paroxysms of distress:
“God, help me! Jesus Christ, help me!” Repeating these expressions in a tone of voice that
would alarm the house. Sometimes he will say, “O God, what have I done to suffer so much?”
Then shortly after, “but there is no God,” then again, “yet if there should be, what would
become of me hereafter?” Thus he will continue for some time, when, on a sudden, he will scream
as if in terror and agony, and call for me by name. On one occasion I inquired what he wanted.
“Stay with me,” he replied, “for God’s sake, for I can not bear to be left alone.” I told him
I could not always be in the room. “Then,” said he, “send even a child to stay with me, for
it is a hell to be alone.” I never saw,’ she continued, ‘a more unhappy, a more forsaken man.
It seems he can not reconcile himself to die.’

“Such was the conversation of the woman, who was a Protestant, and who seemed very desirous
that we should afford him some relief in a state bordering on complete despair. Having remained
some time in the parlor, we at length heard a noise in the adjoining room. We proposed to enter,
which was assented to by the woman, who opened the door for us. A more wretched being in appearance
I never beheld. He was lying in a bed sufficiently decent in itself, but at present besmeared
with filth; his look was that of a man greatly tortured in mind, his eyes haggard, his countenance
forbidding, and his whole appearance that of one whose better days had been one continued scene
of debauch. His only nourishment was milk punch, in which he indulged to the full extent of
his weak state. He had partaken very recently of it, as the sides and corners of his mouth
exhibited very unequivocal traces of it, as well as of blood which had also followed in the
track and left its mark on the pillow. Upon their making known the object of their visit, Paine
interrupted the speaker by saying, ‘That’s enough, sir, that’s enough. I see what you would
be about. I wish to hear no more from you, sir; my mind is made up on that subject. I look
upon the whole of the Christian scheme to be a tissue of lies, and Jesus Christ to be nothing
more than a cunning knave and imposter. Away with you, and your God, too! Leave the room instantly!
As a river springs up in the heart of a sandy continent, having its father in the skies; as
the stream rolls on, making in that arid waste a belt of verdure wherever it turns its way;
creating palm groves and fertile plains, where the smoke of the cottage curls up at eventide,
and marble cities send the gleam of their splendor far into die sky—such has been the course
of the bible on earth.”—Theodore Parker.

“I must die—abandoned of God and of men.”—Voltaire.

THREE REASONS FOR REPUDIATING INFIDELITY.

Bishop Whipple says, “I once met a thoughtful scholar who told me that for years he had read
every book which assailed the religion of Jesus Christ. He said he would have been an infidel
if it had not been for three things:

