COLONEL JOHN BROWN

  OF PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS

  THE BRAVE ACCUSER OF

  BENEDICT ARNOLD

  An Address

  DELIVERED BEFORE THE FORT RENSSELAER CHAPTER OF THE
  D.A.R. AND OTHERS

  BY ARCHIBALD M. HOWE

  AT THE

  VILLAGE OF PALATINE BRIDGE, NEW YORK

  SEPTEMBER 29, 1908.

  W. B. CLARKE COMPANY
  26 AND 28 TREMONT STREET
  BOSTON

  1908

GEO. H. ELLIS CO., PRINTERS, 272 CONGRESS ST., BOSTON.

This address was delivered for the purpose of calling attention to the present condition of
the marble monument erected at Stone Arabia, N.Y., to the memory of Colonel Brown in 1836,
now insecure because the cemetery in the rear of Stone Arabia church is not properly maintained.

The form of the address is slightly changed, but the writer will never forget the kindness
of the Canajoharie and Palatine friends who greeted him and the wonderful beauty of Stone Arabia,
a plateau north of the Mohawk at Palatine where our ancestors maintained a strong outpost against
Indians and other adversaries.

THE BRAVE ACCUSER OF BENEDICT ARNOLD.

John Brown, of Pittsfield, Mass., now almost forgotten, was a patriot in our Revolution of
1775 whose career has been described more than once by men in New York and in Berkshire County,
but, as it is now time to give more impartial views of the controversy, perhaps another sketch
of the life of this leader may encourage others to search for clearer views of the ways by
which our ancestors established the institutions which we hope are to endure.

Daniel Brown, the father of Colonel John Brown, came from Haverhill, Mass., to the western
part of the Commonwealth in 1752, when his son John was eight years old. He seems to have been
first in the beautiful town of Sandisfield to take part in its local government, both secular
and ecclesiastical. "Deacon Brown" is called prosperous when this new town on the banks of
the Farmington River, east of the hills of the Housatonic, bade fair to equal Pittsfield as
a trading-place. "The Deacon" was a local magistrate under the king, when laymen served as
judges. John, his youngest son, is described as tall and powerful, an athlete able to kick
a football over the elm-tree on the college green at New Haven when he entered at twenty-three
years of age, older in years than most college students of the year 1767.

It is believed that he prepared for college with some citizen of the neighborhood, and it is
known that he married before graduating in 1771.

While at New Haven, he was fully informed of the peculiarities of Benedict Arnold, then a storekeeper,
already disgraced in the eyes of respectable citizens because of his desertion from the British
army and his reckless disregard for the rights of his creditors; for then the debtor was not
allowed to retain his respectability, if he failed dishonestly. Furthermore, his self-assertion
was recognized as too often a display of arrogance and vanity. Brown's sister Elizabeth had
married Oliver Arnold, attorney-general of Rhode Island, a cousin of Benedict, and it is reasonable
to suppose that he was well informed of Arnold's misdeeds, which thus became known to John Brown.

In 1771, when he was graduated from Yale, only twenty men were of his class. Quite a large
number of Yale graduates took part with the patriots, and Humphreys, one of the class of 1771,
was aide-de-camp to Washington. He, I believe, is the only writer in verse who extolled this
John Brown. How often we are indebted to poets for our heroes! If this John Brown had incited
an insurrection and been hanged for killing his fellow-men contrary to law in time of peace,
"his soul might be marching on." If, when he rode from Ticonderoga on horse at a high rate
of speed to Philadelphia, to inform the Continental Congress that his friend Ethan Allen had
taken possession of the fortress with its guns and materials for war, some poet had described
his ride, as Longfellow portrayed Paul Revere's, the school children would still recall Brown
of Pittsfield; but, my friends, 'tis of little moment that we are soon forgotten, if it be
certain that, while we live, we live with moral courage in the life of every day.

I do not intend to put much emphasis upon military glory. I am trying to show that Brown's
life by reason of its entire sincerity, although at times unsuccessful, was led, so far as
we can know, by "a man every inch a man," holding fast to his ideals, fearless in the assertion
of truth as he saw it, and directed by high principle; that, having all these noble attributes,
his part in public affairs should now and then be rehearsed to show the value of goodness even
amid the horrors of war.

On December 10, 1772, a few months after graduation from Yale College, he was admitted to practise
law in New York in the courts of Tryon County, a part of which is now Montgomery County, bearing
the name of one of our noblest American generals, who led the attack on Quebec in December,
three years later, where Brown served under him as a major of a Berkshire County regiment.
Some writers call Brown king's attorney at Caughnawaga, whether rightly I know not, nor do
I know why he came to the Mohawk Valley from Berkshire, for Pittsfield was a growing frontier
town. Perhaps Sir William Johnson's influence and his busy settlement offered some inducement
to the young attorney, but it did not long have weight with him, for we find him in 1773 at
Pittsfield, where another attorney of Loyalist tendencies had left town under coercion.

Before I attempt to describe the civil and military career of John Brown from 1773 to his thirty-sixth
birthday, when he was killed at Stone Arabia, I wish to call your attention to the peculiarities
of the political situation in Berkshire County and its vicinity. On the north the New Hampshire
Grants (now Vermont) had recently been disputed territory where local partisans, Ethan Allen
and others, used coercion to maintain the claims of settlers against New York men claiming
title. New York Colony on the west, though directed largely by men of high character like Philip
Schuyler, was torn by bitter political differences, the Loyalist element being strong in social
and political affairs. Then, although the Berkshire towns were active from the earliest days
of 1774 in sharing with other towns the plans for resistance to royal authority, they were
very jealous of any continuance of unnecessary power in the Provincial Congress. Pittsfield
by the quill of a cousin of Ethan Allen, the Rev. Thomas Allen, asserted that the town would
remain "in a state of nature" [see Note 1] (i.e., simple democracy without representative government)
unless it obtained new privileges. If the right of nominating to office is not vested in the
people, they said, "we are indifferent who assumes it, whether any particular persons on this
or the other side of the water." They did not want any bosses, but no doubt would have voted
for Governor Hughes. They were of the belief that the government of the respective committees
(County and Town, Committees of Correspondence and Inspection) was lenient and efficacious,
but they hoped for a new Constitution "on such a broad basis of civil and religious liberty
as no length of time will corrupt as long as the sun and moon shall endure." They wished to
elect judges by votes of the people of the county, justices of the peace by the voters of the
towns, and of course allow soldiers to elect their company officers.

Brown was chosen judge of the Common Pleas by the General Court of Massachusetts for 1779,
but never held court, probably because his fellow-citizens were not submissive to the existing
authority of the General Court as exercised before the adoption of the new Constitution of
Massachusetts. In such a state of affairs Berkshire took her part largely in her way when she
sent men to fight the battles of the United Colonies. Her officers and men were often too independent
to submit willingly to proper military authority, and in some trying emergencies the Berkshire
men were insubordinate or were disposed to follow their leaders in attacks not always wisely
chosen. It was Captain Asa Douglas, of Hancock, the man who had done much to promote the capture
of Ticonderoga by skilful recruiting and by pledge of his estate, who in May, 1776, was Chairman
of a convention of Berkshire towns which, deluded by false rumors and influenced by their own
prejudices against the noble General Schuyler, sent to General Washington their doubts concerning
his loyalty, although expressing their hope that his name might be handed down to posterity
as one of the great pillars of the American Cause. Their hope is grandly fulfilled, but the
Berkshire men have left us with some doubt as to their skill in judging of current events.
However, on the twenty-sixth day of May, 1776, Mark Hopkins, as Secretary of this Convention,
wrote to Washington to tell him their fears concerning Philip Schuyler were groundless.

John Brown was twenty-nine years of age when he began his active citizenship at Pittsfield.
He had lived in Berkshire more than one-half his life. His experience on a farm, at college,
near the sea, and for a short time in the Mohawk country among the Indians and white men of
varying views about the king, made him worthy the confidence of Berkshire men; and he always
had their support and their respect. What his literary attainments were we cannot tell. A few
letters to General Lincoln and letters relating to military affairs which appear in the archives
give little opportunity for judging of his literary and professional skill. The inventory of
his estate, giving in detail the names of law books, a surveyor's guide, a theological treatise,
and a Bible, with farm implements and military clothing, show something of the life of his
time, when a man was farmer, surveyor, lawyer, and soldier altogether, and, if as active as
John Brown, not much more able to write well-considered essays and books than if he had never
seen Yale College. Alas! his fate in that regard is not unlike many graduates of our present
time, who, having fine natures, strong traits of character, and ability enough to express themselves,
are driven by commercial or other present activities to and fro from typewriter to telephone,
often to die without using their minds calmly and without imparting to others much that they
might have given to help the world, had they been able to have peace in the midst of their
busy lives.

Pittsfield frequently employed Brown. In January, 1774, he was chosen to instruct the representative
to the General Court in reference to the destruction of the tea at Boston. He was quite discriminating.
While he opposed the useless waste of property by disguised men, he strongly denounced the
British tyrannies. Within six months he was one of the Committee of Correspondence and a delegate
to the County Congress at Stockbridge. In the fall of 1774 he acted as arbitrator with others
to settle disputes following the common law and the Province laws when they did not interfere
with the democracy of Berkshire.

He was chosen Ensign of the Company of Minute Men, and finally delegate to the First Provincial
Congress. This Congress appointed him to a very important Committee on Correspondence with
Canada, and that winter the committee sent him to Canada with full power to get information,
confer with Canadians, whether English or French, and report back the condition of affairs
and whether they would act with the Colonies. This mission was peaceful in its aim. He conferred
with men from Montreal and Quebec, assuring all whom he met that the Colonies desired peace
with Great Britain, but, if war came, they would surely respect the rights of all men to worship
God in their own way and would maintain a democratic form of government.

Mr. Brown showed himself to be diplomatic and faithful. He endured much personal hardship and
risk during the winter, and his report was most valuable. The part of it best known is under
date of March 29, 1775, wherein he recommended that, if war came, Ticonderoga should be taken.
"The people in the New Hampshire Grants," he wrote, "have engaged to do the job." Recently
it has been stated that in February, 1775, he was at Chesterfield, Mass., and that about that
time he led a party of Berkshire and Hampshire men to Deerfield and arrested a Tory or some
Tories who were suspected of being in direct communication with General Gage at Boston. April
27, 1775, there appeared in the Hartford Courant a notice signed "John Brown" by order of the
Committee of Inspection in the towns of Pittsfield, Richmond, and Lenox, in the following words:
"Whereas Major Israel Stoddard and Woodbridge Little Esq., both of Pittsfield in the County
of Berkshire, have fled from their respective homes and are justly esteemed the common pests
of society and incurable enemies of their country and are supposed to be somewhere in New York
Government moving sedition and rebellion against their country, it is hereby recommended to
all friends of American liberty and to all who do not delight in the innocent blood of their
countrymen, to exert themselves that they may be taken into custody and committed to some of
his Majesty's jails till the civil war which has broken out in this Province shall be ended."
Surely, Brown was an active partisan, though not at Lexington in April, 1775. In May he was
at Ticonderoga with Ethan Allen, not holding any military rank. Allen commended him to the
government as fit for military command.

The oft-told tale of how Ethan Allen took the fortress, proclaiming its capture in the name
of "Almighty God and the Continental Congress," need not be rehearsed here. Allen took possession
of Ticonderoga, its garrison, and its valuable military property with the aid of Connecticut
and Berkshire men, and at his request Brown rode his horse rapidly to Philadelphia to announce
to the Continental Congress the capture which was attained without their authority or aid.
At this point Benedict Arnold must be referred to. In April, 1775, he had broken open an arsenal
at New Haven, and with his militia company hurried to Cambridge. As he rode one day from New
Haven towards Cambridge, he met Captain Parsons, who was going to Hartford to plan with some
Connecticut leaders for the capture of Ticonderoga. Hearing Parsons's plan, Arnold pushed on
to Watertown and got a commission from the Massachusetts government as colonel as well as an
order for power to recruit men, for horses and ammunition. Meeting Ethan Allen on his way to
Ticonderoga, Arnold produced his Massachusetts authority, but not his men, on the same day
that Allen was fully prepared for his work. Arnold began his interference with the concerted
plan, hoping for a separate command and the glory of victory. He promised payments of money
to Berkshire men from the southern towns, which he failed to pay from funds given him for that
purpose. This was the beginning of an angry and long-continued dispute between Easton, Brown's
colonel, and Brown, on the one hand, and Arnold, on the other. Unhappily for Easton and Brown,
as for all men who possess the truth about the characters of men who are undoubtedly able to
fight battles, though brutal and even wicked in their lives, the controversy was long and bitter,
but, while war exists, the common law and legal procedure rarely have weight and even martial
law becomes ineffective.

"War is hell," said the great Sherman. Hell is irrational, as is war. Reason fails to have
even its usual part in man's destiny during all wars. Chance has sway, and men often get what
is called glory when others, almost unknown to fame, should win the approval of all men.

Whether Washington had his doubts about Arnold's character may never be known, but more than
once he gave him opportunities to hold high command because he fought battles through. So Lincoln,
when told that Grant drank whiskey, asked for more such whiskey for other generals. Sparks,
the historian, a Unitarian clergyman, when writing Arnold's life, detailed his sins, his youthful
desertion from the British army, his financial dishonor at New Haven, his overbearing self-assertion,
and yet he added, when telling of the attitude of the members of Congress towards Arnold, that
"these stern patriots, regarding virtue as essential to true honor, did not consider great
examples of valor, resource, and energy even of arousing and sustaining the military ardor
of a country as an adequate counterpoise to a dereliction of principle and a compromising integrity."
"How far a judicious policy and a pure patriotism were combined on this occasion," writes Sparks,
"as to what extent party zeal contributed to warp the judgment, we need not now inquire."

And here, my friends, is our solemn warning against war. No inquiry will ever justify war.
War is justified only upon the sad assumption that, as men are "poor weak mortals" and naturally
wicked, they will go to war, and justice fails where might makes right. Who thinks I can here
and now fully justify John Brown as a soldier, if he was too aggressive in attack or too ardent
in his antagonism of a dastardly traitor whom he knew through and through, but whom Washington,
Schuyler, and other generals felt obliged to support? Perhaps not fully justify on the grounds
that seem necessary to the success of war, but I can fully support Brown as a man who fought
nobly for his country and in defence of the unprotected inhabitants of the Mohawk Valley, who
was never false to his aims as an American patriot, who served with distinction under Allen,
Montgomery, Schuyler, Arnold, Lincoln, and Van Rensselaer, and finally died while attempting
to defend the Canajoharie settlements from the hostile attack of a murderous foe and acting
in obedience to the command of his superior officer.

When the Massachusetts government understood the situation at Lake Champlain, Brown was appointed
major of the Berkshire Regiment, and sent again to Canada with four scouts. This time the business
was very dangerous. The French Canadians often helped him, but he might have been treated as
a spy, and a military police chased him for many miles with two parties of fifty men each.
On his return he reached Crown Point within a day of the time General Schuyler had expected
him, after five days on the lake in a canoe. Early in August, 1775, he urged by letter and
every other means in his power the immediate invasion of Canada. Soon he was put in command
of a flotilla on Lake Champlain, and then followed his well-known exploits at St. Johns and
Chamblee, where he co-operated with James Livingston, a brave New Yorker. His capture of Chamblee
on the 19th of October, 1775, just five years before his death, brought promises of reward
from Congress. Then came the reckless expedition of Ethan Allen which led to his capture, and
which has long been believed to be the result of a failure on the part of Brown to co-operate
with Allen when he could have supported him. Here the burden of proof rests on the accusers
of Brown, and they never have had other proof than an implication drawn from the "Allen's narrative"
that he did not make his best effort to help him, although Allen does not make any direct charge.
Furthermore, the narrative is often far from correct; and as Allen was reckless in act and
statement, and as Brown was continued in service under Montgomery, who was friendly to him,
we may infer that Brown's failure was unavoidable. Allen's plan was not approved by Schuyler
or Montgomery. Washington hoped that Allen's misfortune "would teach a lesson of prudence and
subordination to others who may be anxious to outshine their general officers."

It has been intimated that Brown was one of these junior officers who chafed under the limitations
set by his superiors, but he certainly retained his position as a regimental officer, and achieved
such results in this Canadian invasion during the advance to Quebec that he was highly commended
by his associates, promised promotion by Montgomery, and finally given his Lieutenant-colonelcy
by Congress. He took part in the attack of December 31, 1775, on Quebec, and on the death of
Montgomery served under Arnold for months, commanding a detachment of Berkshire and other men
who were willing to re-enlist if he stayed. [See Note 2.] One of his letters written to his
wife, March 15, 1776, when commanding an outpost near Quebec, says he expects to be "another
Uriah because he does not agree very well with Mr. General Arnold." He had been "ordered to
attack with his attachment of two hundred men, one-half of whom were sick in the hospital"
(his brave brother, Captain Jacob Brown, died of small-pox). He himself marched out with his
men, but the enemy retired into their fort too soon for him to attack them. He "expected another
storm from Arnold, or to be punished for disobedience to orders." Truly, he was not easily
subordinate to Arnold, but he was not again "set in the forefront of the battle, that others
might retire from him and that he might be smitten and die," as David planned for Uriah, because
he was truly loyal to the cause he so nobly served, and Arnold did not dare to destroy him.

To fully describe his conduct in denouncing Arnold and Arnold's tergiversation and intrigues
against him would lead me far afield. No doubt his accusations interfered with Arnold's promotion
by Congress,--promotion he earned as a great leader in battle,--but as an officer responsible
for property he was repeatedly unsuccessful. Brown again and again renewed his charges against
the arch-traitor, but was not able to get proper attention from the tribunals that should have
relieved him from Arnold's false charges. [See Note 3.]

Again and again historians declare that Arnold was led to treason because he had been unjustly
treated by the Continental Congress. What a false view this is! He is willing enough to throw
himself into battle for glory and for his country's honor at Saratoga without definite authority,
and again he was ready for a fight or an expedition for the relief of this valley when he could
lead, but he was always in trouble financially. His Philadelphia extravagances and the increase
of his indebtedness did not escape all censure.

Although Washington mildly rebuked him, he gave him new offers of high command. It is clear
to me that any such statements as are indulged in by historians are of no weight or consequence.

I cannot help referring to Colonel Brown's hand-bill of the winter of 1776-77, published and
posted in public places, wherein he attacked Arnold with great severity, concluding with the
words, "Money is this man's God, and to get enough of it he would sacrifice his country." A
prophecy! Unhappily, the same might be said of too many men of to-day. Another incident painful
to recall, but characteristic, was told to my great-uncle in 1834 by Colonel Morgan Lewis,
a friend of Colonel Brown's, and printed elsewhere. At the camp and in the tent where Arnold
sat with other officers at some time during the Saratoga campaign, Brown faced the arch-traitor
and denounced him as a scoundrel, and then, apologizing to those present, left the tent. His
reiterated charges were not regarded as worthy of him as a soldier, although he had resigned
from the Continental service because he could not get justice and because Arnold was not tried
for his crimes. Schuyler deplored Brown's conduct as an accuser though respecting him as a
brave man.

I am unable to account for the record which accredits him with thirteen months' and eighteen
days' service at German Flats, New York. From April 1, 1776, to May 18, 1777, he was Lieutenant-colonel
of Elmore's Connecticut Regiment, which was stationed at Albany and later at Fort Stanwix.
I suppose his resignation from the Continental army was accepted about May 18, 1777, but, whatever
his loyal service in New York may have been, he again marched in September, 1777, in command
of Massachusetts militia under direction of General Lincoln, from Pawlet, Vt., with a separate
detachment to harry the British at Ticonderoga and Lake George. On the 18th of September, 1777,
early in the day he made sudden and successful attacks on the landing-place near Ticonderoga,
Mount Defiance, and that neighborhood, demanding the surrender of the fortress; but this time
General Powel, of the British army, made a manly reply. His captures of men and material were
very valuable. Some American prisoners were released, and a Continental standard of colors
was recaptured and sent to General Lincoln with much delight. All the joy of conquest is expressed
in his report from Pawlet, Vt., October 4, 1777, but in his letter of September 20, written
at eleven o'clock at night to General Lincoln, he said he was censured by officers and men
for not suffering them to make a rash attempt to carry the fortress at Ticonderoga, although
on mature consideration he thought it impossible to take possession without too great loss
of life. Here as late as 1777 appears the tendency of the militia to be insubordinate. He withdrew
from Lake Champlain, and planned the capture of Diamond Island in Lake George, a place where
some German troops were guarding a large amount of supplies. He had manned an armed sloop and
boats, but was thwarted by the escape of a prisoner and a sudden and violent storm on the lake.
The prisoner gave warning to the garrison, and the result of the storm gave time for the preparation
of a defence, so that after two hours' hot engagement he withdrew after destroying some of
his boats. General Lincoln commended him highly for the success of this expedition. He wrote
to General Lincoln September 19, 1777, telling him he had given the men all the plunder to
encourage them before the attack, although "going beyond the letter of the law." This action
General Lincoln approved.

The question of plunder and the martial law governing it must have been a great source of trouble
in this war among Indians and white men in the invasion of Canada and the Tory invasions hereabouts.
[See Note 4.] It seems probable that, when Arnold falsely charged Easton and Brown with plundering
the baggage of British officers at the Sorel, he could easily cast a shadow because of the
uncertainty about the rules of war and the orders given by general officers. Plunder was promised
the men by recruiting officers as early in the war as when the plan was laid by Ethan Allen
to capture Ticonderoga in April or May, 1775. [See Note 5.]

In the early part of the summer of 1780 rumors were received tending to show that Sir John
Johnson might again invade the Mohawk Valley, this time by way of Lake Ontario and Lake Oneida.
Therefore, on the twenty-second day of June, 1780, the General Court of Massachusetts, at the
earnest request of General Washington, directed that 4,726 men should be raised from the militia
by draft, lot or voluntary enlistment, to serve three months in New York territory after they
arrived at Claverack on the Hudson. These levies, by reason of apparent danger to the cause
in Rhode Island, with the exception of 315 or more men raised in Berkshire County, were sent
to General Heath at Tiverton, R.I. Various meagre statements are in print in reference to the
men who served under Brown at this time. I find in the Massachusetts Archives the names of
officers and privates, in all 381 men, who served in the Mohawk Valley probably after August
5, 1780. [See Note 4.] It may be that some of his men were stationed in different forts or
block-houses in other places than Stone Arabia, and that only 217 men of the Berkshire Regiment
were in the battle of October 19, 1780. The killed and wounded are all from three of the five
companies. [See Note 4.] Some writers say that Colonel Brown had New York men with him, and
one statement refers to Captain John Kasselman, of Tryon County Rangers, as being in conference
with Brown on the day he fell. [See Note 4.]

Each soldier was equipped at his own expense with a good fire-arm, with a steel or iron ramrod
and a spring to retain the same, a worm priming wire and brush, and a bayonet fitted to his
gun, a scabbard and belt therefor, and a cutting sword or a tomahawk or hatchet, a pouch containing
a cartridge-box that will hold fifteen rounds of cartridges at least, a one-hundred buckshot,
a jack-knife and tow for wadding, six flints, one pound of powder, forty leaden balls fitted
to his gun, a knapsack and blanket, a canteen or wooden bottle sufficient to hold one quart.

Long after the Stone Arabia fight, claims were presented to the General Court of Massachusetts
for felt hats, coats, vests, linen overalls, shirts, shoes, blankets, canteens, and handkerchiefs,
and of course for muskets,--all lost on the 19th of October, 1780.

Brown's major was Oliver Root, his adjutant James Easton, Jr., son of his old colonel. Dr.
Oliver Brewster was surgeon, and Elias Willard quartermaster. He assumed command July 14, 1780,
at Claverack, and marched probably August 5 to some of the Mohawk settlements or forts. His
mission was to protect various neighborhoods from sudden raids.

September 5 he was sent with two hundred men from Fort Rensselaer to Fort Schuyler to guard
twelve boats with provisions for the relief of the garrison. September 11 he is reported as
one of the officers of Van Rensselaer's force at Fort Rensselaer (part of which--a well preserved
stone house--remains at Canajoharie under the care of young citizens of that town, being the
place where the Tryon County Committee of patriots met). I cannot tell where he was for the
month prior to the 19th of October, when he was in command at Fort Paris, a palisaded enclosure
of stone block-houses fit for a garrison of over two hundred men, built in 1776-77 by Captain
Christian Getman's Rangers on a most commanding position on the beautiful plateau called Stone
Arabia, north of the Mohawk between Garoga Creek and Johnstown, where Sir William Johnson's
baronial hall was. The fort was more than a dozen miles from Johnstown, and was named for Isaac
Paris, who took part in the terrible affair at Oriskany. Sir John Johnson and his career in
Tryon County and elsewhere in New York is well known. To me the whole subject of Indian warfare
in all our wars seems to open every possible avenue to the extremest horrors and brutalities
of war. Philip Schuyler, one of the noblest men who ever lived in New York State, had from
his early youth been friendly to Indians. In fact, before he reached twenty-one years of age,
he was given a chief's name among the Oneidas for his services to that tribe. His skill and
patience made him all important in making treaties and negotiations with "The Six Nations"
and other Indians. The Patriots very early realized that the Indians were to become a stumbling-block
to any attempt at treating with Canada or maintaining what is called civilized warfare (can
any warfare be civilized?). Schuyler, Hawley, Oliver Wolcott, and other distinguished men of
high character attempted in vain to hold the Indians to neutrality. Congress at one time voted
that Indians should not be employed in the service excepting where a whole nation, after full
consideration, decided to act together. At another time Congress asked Schuyler to employ two
thousand Indians for military service. Sir John Johnson's career, his apparent acquiescence
in Schuyler's demands, his conduct when taking and when breaking his parole, his apology being
that the Patriots had no established authority, and his repeated invasions of this country
showed him to be the growth of the treachery which is bred among men who use the sordid and
brutal nature of savages for evil purposes.

It is interesting to me that Lieutenant-colonel Mellen led Massachusetts militia to Fort Schuyler
to aid Gansevoort, and that, when in August, 1777, Arnold set out to the relief of Gansevoort
he led Massachusetts volunteers from Colonel Learned's battalion, and that again in the summer
and fall of 1780 Brown led Massachusetts men to defend this neighborhood from the murderous
invasion of Sir John Johnson. At Oriskany, Herkimer was hurried into action by his inferior
officers in the manner characteristic of the independent and valorous spirit of his time, and
Oriskany in 1777 was one of the most brutal conflicts between Tories and Patriots. Sullivan's
retaliating expedition of July, 1778, was as bad in its character and effects as anything ever
done on behalf of any cause, good or bad. The destruction of many Indian villages by Sullivan
and General James Clinton was no doubt thorough, but of little avail, although it was thought
wise to retaliate for the horrors of Wyoming.

Early in May, 1780, the information came to this neighborhood that Sir John Johnson was moving
from Lake Champlain towards Johnstown with a considerable force, that Brant was marching against
the Canajoharie settlements with a body of savages and that the Tories would join them. Johnson
landed at Bulwagga Bay, near Crown Point, and, pushing through the forest and down the valley
of the Sacandoga, he appeared near Johnstown. On the 21st of May, 1780, his forces divided,
and poured into the lower valley of the Mohawk along a line of ten miles. From Tribes Hill
upward they plundered, murdered, and destroyed. Every man capable of bearing arms was said
to have been killed. Johnson withdrew hastily, as he was pursued by militia. Of course hundreds
of people fled to Albany and Schenectady. Governor Clinton hurried at the head of troops from
Kingston to Fort George, and, ordering others to meet him at Ticonderoga, he pushed on to Crown
Point, but was too late to capture Sir John.

Brant delayed his attack until late in July, 1780, and then made a feigned attack on Fort Schuyler.
General Van Rensselaer, then at Stone Arabia, hastened to the relief of Fort Schuyler, and
Brant in early August fell upon the Canajoharie settlements and destroyed them mercilessly.
Troops were sent from Albany to protect the settlements, but they were not sufficient.

September 7 an extra session of the New York legislature sat at Poughkeepsie, and authorized
Governor Clinton to order out such number of militia as he thought necessary. Brigadier-General
James Clinton was assigned command at Albany and authorized to call for assistance from the
brigades of Generals Ten-Broeck and Van Rensselaer. As I have already said, Colonel Brown on
the 18th of October was in command at Fort Paris, subject to orders of General Robert Van Rensselaer.
Fort Paris was two or three miles north of the Mohawk. In September and early October Sir John
Johnson led his forces by way of the Oswego River, Oneida Lake, and across country to the Susquehanna
Valley. He ravaged the Schoharie Valley, laid siege to Middle Fort unsuccessfully, then, turning
north, raided all the country from Fort Hunter. He let loose his forces for the general purpose
of devastation. He again did his work thoroughly,--brutally, as was customary in Indian warfare
at that time. Major Jelles Fonda, one of the victims of this ruthless destruction, who had
been a confidential officer under Sir William Johnson, was absent, being a State senator. Sir
John's forces burned his homestead, "The Nose," at Palatine, and destroyed, it is said, $60,000
worth of his property. On the night of October 18 Sir John encamped with his forces nearly
opposite or rather above the Nose, and on the 19th he crossed the river to the north at Keder's
Rifts, near Spraker's Basin. A detachment of 150 men proceeded at once against Fort Paris,
but, after marching two miles, the main body joined them.

October 18 General Van Rensselaer found Caughnawaga in flames. He was in camp on a hill near
Stanton Place in Florida, perhaps twenty miles from Fort Paris, when he heard that that fort
was to be attacked the next morning. 'Tis said he sent a messenger with a letter to Colonel
Brown and another to Colonel Dubois at Fort Plain, telling Brown to march out of the fort at
nine o'clock the next morning and hold the enemy in check, while Dubois and he with his force
were to co-operate. Furthermore, it is said, Brown's officers and men advised him to disobey
the order, as that was not the time to leave the fort. However, he marched forth at the head
of his detachment, but, being deceived by the false advice of persons pretending to be patriots,
he was led to turn aside from the road upon which he marched out into a somewhat narrow clearing
in the forest near a small work called Fort Keyser, and was killed nearly two miles from Fort
Paris, being attacked on every side in what amounted to an ambuscade.

Captain John Ziele, of the Second Regiment of Tryon County militia, Colonel Klock's Regiment,
had charge of Fort Keyser that day; and after Brown's defeat George Spraker, John Wafel, Joseph
and Conrad Spraker, William Wafel, and Warner (?) Dygert, with two or three other young men,
were ready to defend the place from attack, but the enemy fled, whereupon William Wafel, Joseph
and Conrad Spraker, and W. Dygert proceeded to where Brown lay and carried his body to Fort
Keyser. His scalp was entirely removed, and he was stripped of all his clothing excepting a
ruffled shirt. After hard fighting, thirty men or more being killed, some of his men got back
to Fort Paris and defended themselves successfully, thus saving the refugees therein from harm.
Major Root was in command, and acted skilfully and bravely. Mr. Grider describes the battle
as a running or moving fight extending from the eastward to the south-west at least across
six farms, and you all know how valuable the evidence is showing that the large boulder with
its inscription was the stone behind which six men found refuge and shelter until surrounded
and killed.

Washington wrote to the Continental Congress: "It is thought, and perhaps not without foundation,
that this invasion [of the Mohawk Valley] was made by Sir John Johnson upon the supposition
that Arnold's treachery was successful."

If Johnson acted upon that supposition, Arnold was in some measure the cause of Brown's death,
but, however that may be, John Brown died honorably after living honorably at Stone Arabia
the 19th of October, 1780,--it is said between nine o'clock and ten o'clock in the morning.

I said that poets had not presented him to popular imagination, but his devoted classmate at
Yale, David Humphreys, aide-de-camp to General Washington in 1780, wrote verses to his memory.
Among his words are these:--

    "And scarce Columbia's arms the fight sustains,
    While her best blood gushed from a thousand veins.
    Then thine, O Brown, that purpled wide the ground,
    Pursued the knife through many a ghastly wound.
    Ah! hapless friend, permit the tender tear
    To flow e'en now, for none flowed on thy bier,
    Where cold and mangled, under northern skies,
    To famished wolves a prey, thy body lies,
    Which erst so fair and tall in youthful grace,
    Strength in thy nerves and beauty in thy face,
    Stood like a tower till, struck by the swift ball,
    Then what availed to ward th' untimely fall,
    The force of limbs, the mind so well informed,
    The taste refined, the breast with friendship warmed
    (That friendship which our earliest years began),
    When the dark bands from thee expiring tore
    Thy long hair, mingled with the spouting gore."

We do not know whether the news of Arnold's flight from West Point September 25 reached Brown's
ears. Perhaps, if it did, he would have appreciated the patriotic and lofty self-control of
Washington when the next day he wrote to Rochambeau: "General Arnold, who has sullied his former
glory by the blackest treason, has escaped to the enemy." "This is an event that occasions
me equal regret and mortification, but traitors are the growth of every country in a revolution
of the present nature. It is more to be wondered at that the catalogue is so small than that
there have been found a few."

Arnold's flight to the enemy was his flight from what all men, excepting Brown and a few others
[see Note 6], supposed was his soul's desire; i.e., to serve the people of America to the death.
For twenty-one years after 1780 he lived, pursuing a checkered career. John Fiske said he often
looked at the sword given him for his valor at Saratoga, and bemoaned the results of his treason.
However that may be, his name is remembered with harshness and disgust, the result of an untruthful
life.

NOTE 1.

"in a state of nature." See "The Struggle for American Independence," Fisher, vol. i, p. 27
et seq. Burlamaqui's "Principles of Natural Law."

NOTE 2.

See "New York in the Revolution," vol. i, p. 61. "The Line, Additional Corps, Green Mountain
Boys, Major Brown's Detachment in General Arnold's Regiment." 244 men.

I take great pleasure in this record. Some writers have intimated that Brown was insubordinate
at Quebec because Montgomery referred to one of his friends as going beyond proper bounds in
objecting to Arnold. If so, why does Arnold permit Brown to remain in command? Some men went
home after the defeat of December 31, 1775, others fled. Fisher says Arnold had only seven
hundred men, of which the Brown detachment is a large part,--no doubt induced to stay because
they trusted him.

NOTE 3.

Smith's History of Pittsfield, 1734-1800, p. 271:--

     To the Honorable Horatio Gates, Esq., Major-General in the Army
     of the United States of America, commanding at Albany.

     Humbly sheweth, that, in the month of February last, Brig.-Gen.
     Arnold transmitted to the honorable Continental Congress, an
     unjustifiable, false, wicked, and malicious accusation against
     me, and my character as an officer in their service, at the time
     when I was under his immediate command; that, had there been the
     least ground for such an accusation, the author thereof had it in
     his power--indeed, it was his duty--to have me brought to a fair
     trial by a general court-martial in the country where the
     pretended crime is said to have originated; that I was left to
     the necessity of applying to Congress, not only for the charge
     against me, but for an order for a court of inquiry on my own
     conduct in respect thereto; that, in consequence of my
     application, I obtained a positive order of Congress to the then
     general commanding the Northern Department for a court of
     inquiry, before whom I might justify my injured character; that
     the said order was transmitted to your Honor at Ticonderoga, in
     the month of August last; and, notwithstanding the most ardent
     solicitations on my part, the order of Congress has not yet been
     complied with; that, upon my renewing my application to your
     Honor for a court of inquiry, you were pleased to refer me to the
     Board of War.

     Thus I have been led an expensive dance, from generals to
     Congress, and from Congress to generals; and I am now referred
     to a Board of War, who, I venture to say, have never yet taken
     cognisance of any such matter; nor do I think it, with great
     submission to your Honor, any part of their duty. I must
     therefore conclude, that this information, from the mode of its
     origin, as well as from the repeated evasions of a fair hearing,
     is now rested upon the author's own shoulders.

     I therefore beg that your Honor will please to order Brig.-Gen.
     Arnold in arrest for the following crimes, which I am ready to
     verify, viz.:--

     1. For endeavoring to asperse your petitioner's personal
     character in the most infamous manner.

     2. For unwarrantably degrading and reducing the rank conferred on
     your petitioner by his (Gen. Arnold's) superior officers, and
     subjecting your petitioner to serve in an inferior rank to that
     to which he had been appointed.

     3. For ungentlemanlike conduct in his letter to Gen. Wooster, of
     the 25th of January last, charging your petitioner with a
     falsehood, and in a private manner, which is justly chargeable on
     himself.

     4. For suffering the small-pox to spread in the camp before
     Quebec, and promoting inoculation there in the Continental army.

     5. For depriving a part of the army under his command of their
     usual allowance of provisions, ordered by Congress.

     6. For interfering with and countermanding the order of his
     superior officer.

     7. For plundering the inhabitants of Montreal, in direct
     violation of a solemn capitulation, or agreement, entered into
     with them by our late brave and worthy Gen. Montgomery, to the
     eternal disgrace of the Continental arms.

     8. For giving unjustifiable, unwarrantable, cruel and bloody
     orders, directing whole villages to be destroyed, and the
     inhabitants thereof put to death by fire & sword, without any
     distinction to friend or foe, age or sex.

     9. For entering into an unwarrantable, unjustifiable & partial
     agreement with Capt. Foster for the exchange of prisoners taken
     at the Cedars, without the knowledge, advice, or consent of any
     officer then there present with him on the spot.

     10. For ordering inoculation of the Continental Army at Sorel,
     without the knowledge of, and contrary to the intentions of the
     general commanding that Northern Department; by which fatal
     consequences ensued.

     11. For great misconduct in his command of the Continental fleet
     on Lake Champlain, which occasioned the loss thereof.

     12. For great misconduct during his command from the camp at
     Cambridge, in the year 1775, until he was superseded by Gen.
     Montgomery, at Point Aux-Tremble, near Quebec.

     13. For disobedience of the orders of his superior officers,
     while acting by a commission from the Provincial Congress of the
     Province of Massachusetts Bay; and for a disobedience of the
     orders of a committee of the same Congress, sent from that State
     to inspect his conduct, and also for insulting, abusing, and
     imprisoning the said committee; as also for a treasonable
     attempt to make his escape with the navigation men, at or near
     Ticonderoga, to the enemy at St. Johns, which oblidged the then
     commanding officer at Ticonderoga and its dependencies to issue a
     positive order to the officers commanding our batteries at Crown
     Point, to stop or sink the vessels attempting to pass that post,
     and by force of arms to make a prisoner of the said Gen. Arnold
     (then a colonel), which was accordingly done.

                               JOHN BROWN, Lieutenant-Colonel.

     ALBANY, 1st Dec., 1776.

                                             PITTSFIELD 9th June 1779

     Sir

     I send you the enclosed hope you will present it to Congress the
     first opportunity not doubting their Disposition to do equal
     Justice to Persons of every Denomination in these united States,
     and that in justice in my instance must be owing rather to
     misinformation than anything else, altho in the present Case it
     is scarcely supposable.

     The very extraordinary trial alluded to in the Petition is truly
     a Matter of Surprize to every Officer and Citizen in this part of
     the World and is of such a dangerous tendency that I think it
     ought to be attended to, what is more extraordinary it is I am
     told the only trial of the kind ever had in Congress.--In the
     Year 1776 I petitioned to Congress for a trial who refused me,
     giving for reason that Congress was not a proper tribunal and
     therefore refered me to the Officer commanding the northern
     Department.

     Genl. Arnold on the First application obtained a hearing and
     determination on that Principle I am a Stranger

     I am with the greatest Respect

                                   Your hons. most obedt most hmbl Sert.

                                                          JNO. BROWN.
     The honle. JNO. JAY ESQ.
         Predt. Congress

       (Continental Congress Papers, no. 42, Petitions, vol. i. 179.)

     THE HONle THE CONGRESS

     The Memorial and Remonstrance of John Brown of Pittsfield in the
     State of the Massachusetts Bay humbly sheweth--

     That in the Month of Novr. 1777 Your Petitioner was passing
     through York Town to the Southord when he waited on the honble
     Charles Thompson Esqr Secy to Congress, who favoured your
     petitioner with a Copy of the very extraordinary Trial of Genl.
     Arnold of which the following is an Extract Viz "In Congress May
     20th 1777--

     A Letter this Day from Genl. Arnold with a printed Paper inclosed
     signed John Brown was read, order'd that the same be refered to
     the Board of War together with such Complaints as have been
     lodged agt. Genl. Arnold." By this your Petitioner would suppose
     that the Board of War were directed not only to take into
     consideration his Complaint, but all others that have been lodged
     agt. Genl. Arnold, particularly those lodged by a General Court
     Martial composed by thirteen of the principle Officers at
     Tycondoroga in the Year 1776 as well as those lodged by Colo.
     Hazen & others altho it does not appear that any other Matter of
     Complaint was determined on, but that contained in the hand Bill
     signed John Brown on which the Board of War Report--

     "That the Genl. laid before them a variety of original Letters
     orders and other papers, which together with the General's own
     account of his Conduct, confirmed by Mr. Carroll one of the late
     Commissioners in Canada now a Member of this Board, have given
     intire Satisfaction to this Board concerning the General's
     Character and Conduct, so cruelly and groundlessly aspersed in
     the Publication."

     Your Petitioner begs leave to affirm that Mr. Carroll whatever he
     might wish knew nothing more or less as a Witness concerning the
     Charges laid agt. Genl. Arnold owing to an unlucky Alieubi, which
     happened with respect to him in regard to all the Charges laid in
     the Complaint. Still how far his evidence might go in assisting
     Genl. Arnold in proving his negatives your Petitioner does not
     pretend to say, as this is an intire new mode of Trial.

     First Because one of the Parties was not notified or present at
     the same, consequently the trial ex parte unconstitutional and
     illegal on every principle.

     Secondly Because there was not one Witness at the Trial who will
     pretend he even had it in his Power to disprove one of the
     Charges in the Complaint.

     Thirdly with the greatest Respect to Congress they had not the
     least Right to take cognizance of the Crimes enumerated in my
     complaint, for the truth of this assertion I beg leave to refer
     them to the military Laws by them compiled and instituted for the
     Regulation of the Army, which are the only security and
     protection of the Officers and Soldiers belonging to the same,
     consequently no other Court or Tribunal would have any Right to
     take cognizance of the Crimes enumerated but that of a Court
     Martial, and therefore the trial of the Genl. above recited was
     strictly a nullety to all intents and purposes it being Coram non
     Judice. However should Congress be of a Different opinion with
     respect to this Matter, and that that the Trial of Genl. Arnold
     was legal & constitutional, he then expects that Congress will
     give him the same indulgence and latitude, and that he may be
     heard by congress on the subject of his Impeachment of Genl.
     Arnold, in which Case the General's presents & witnesses will not
     be necessary. Your Petitioner therefore esteems it as a very
     great grieveance that the Honle. Congress by the trial aforesaid
     have resolved and published and authorised Genl. Arnold to
     publish to the World that he your Petitioner has been guilty of
     making and publishing false and groundless aspertions agt. a
     general Officer, when at the same time every article in the
     Complaint was sacredly true, and would have been proved so had a
     proper tribunal been obtained, of which Genl. Arnold was well
     apprised. 'Tis possible that Genl. Arnold might have suggested to
     Congress that your Petitioner was not an Officer at the time of
     trial afd. as to this Matter your Petitioner has not as yet been
     informed whether his Resignation has been accepted or not, indeed
     he cannot suppose it compatible with the Wisdom Dignity and
     Justice of Congress to descharge any of their Officers for the
     Reason set forth in your Petitioners Letter accompanying his
     Resignation as he then stood impeach'd to Congress by the same
     Genl. Arnold of every high Crimes which if true effected the
     Reputation of the united States and Genl. Arnold's sacred
     Character stood then impeached by your Petitioners of thirteen
     capital Charges, which in the opinion of those most knowing would
     have effected the life of a more honest Man, in consequence of a
     proper trial before a generous Court Martial--on these
     considerations your Petitioner presumes his Resignation was not
     accepted but on Supposition it was, yet your Petitioner conceives
     that to make no material odds, as it can not be presumed that
     congress would try a Citizen without a hearing, whatever they may
     imagine their authority to be. However let this matter be as it
     may Congress are sensible that your Petitioner notwithstanding
     the most flagrant abuses received was not out of Service from the
     commencement of the War untill the reduction of the british Army
     under the Commandg genl. Burgoyne, in which he challenges to
     himself some show [?] of merit since no one else (to his
     knowledge) has been willing to give it him.

     Your Petitioner is sensible that Congress at the time of Genl.
     Arnold's application for a trial were imbarrassed on all
     Quarters, and no doubt laboured under high prejudices with
     Respect to your Petitioners Character owing perhaps to the
     Representations made them by Genl. Gates, who 'tis possible has
     been mistaken to his Sorrow with respect to his Friend--which
     prejudices your Petitioner hopes time and events have eradicated,
     he therefore can assure Congress, that he hopes and wishes for
     nothing more than common justice altho the History of the War and
     his present infirmities received therein, might entitle him to
     something more. But to stand conviction by a Decree of Congress
     of publishing cruel and groundless assertions or Libels without a
     hearing when actually fighting for Liberty is intolerable in a
     free Country and has a direct tendency to check the ambition,
     and even disaffect those Men by whose wisdom Valour and
     perseverance America is to be made free, not to mention the
     dangerous president such trials may afford. Your Petitioner
     therefore implores Congress to reconsider their determination on
     the impeachment of Genl. Arnold, as there cannot at this Day
     remain a possibility of Doubt but that the same was premature,
     and furnished Genl. Arnold with a foundation to establish a
     Character on the Ruins of a Man who to speak moderately has
     rendered his Country as essential [?] Service as that Donquixote
     Genl. whose reasons for evading a trial at a proper tribunal are
     very obvious and fully set forth in my impeachment & which the
     Genl. has had his pretended trial by which impeachment it fully
     appears that Genl. Arnold was resqued from Justice by mere dint
     of unlawfull authority exercised by Genl. Gates.

     Your Petitioner relying on the Wisdom and Justice of Congress
     begs leave to submit [?] himself most Respectfully their very
     obedt. Humble Svt.

                                                      JNO. BROWN.
     Petition [?]
     9th June 1779    Honle JNO. JAY Esq.
                                     Presidt. Congress

NOTE 4.

§1. MILITARY RECORD OF JOHN BROWN.

First. Fourteen (14) days in Ticonderoga expedition, engaged in capture. (See "Connecticut
in Revolution," p. 32.)

Second. Major, Colonel Easton's Regiment, service from May 10, 1775, to December 30, 1775,
in list of men who marched to Canada. (See "Massachusetts Soldiers and Sailors," vol. ii. p. 642.)

Third. Arnold's Regiment." Colonels Ethan Allen and Seth Warner, Quebec, 1776. (See "New York
in the Revolution," vol. i. p. 61.) On list sent Provincial Congress of New York, 4 July, 1775.

Fourth. Lieutenant-colonel. Colonel Samuel Elmore's Regiment, raised for one year from Connecticut
and Massachusetts, appointed by Congress July 29, 1776, resigned March 15, 1777. Regiment took
field July, 1776, under General Schuyler. August 25, marched from Albany into Tryon County.
Posted remainder of term at Fort Stanwix. Broke up in spring of 1777. (See "Connecticut in
Revolution," p. 113.) The Massachusetts roll states that John Brown was among the men who went
to German Flats April 1, 1776, and was discharged May 18, 1777. Service, thirteen months, eighteen
days.

Fifth. Colonel Third Berkshire Regiment. Commissioned April 4, 1777. Services in Northern Department
not stated. April 14, 1780, further appointment as Colonel. Service, three months, five days.
Killed October 19, 1780. (See Massachusetts Rolls.)

The above memoranda are imperfect, but I print them from printed records. I have not searched
the original sources, believing the public officials have done all that could be done.

§2. COLONEL JOHN BROWN'S COMMAND JULY 14, 1780, TO OCTOBER 19, 1780.
  Surgeon, Dr. Oliver Brewster.

  CAPTAIN WILLIAM FOORD'S COMPANY.

  Foord, William, captain.
  Spencer, Alpheus, lieutenant.
  Pearson, Abel, lieutenant.
  Benden, Timothy, sergeant.
  Rothborn, Daniel, sergeant.
  Sloson, Eleazer, sergeant.
  Wheaton, Samuel, sergeant.
  Barber, James, corporal.
  Bond, Bartholomew, corporal.
  Tobie, Nathaniel, corporal.
  Goodrich, Gilbert, of Lenox, private.
  Austin, Shubael, drummer.
  Andrews, Colman, private.
  Alcock, Stephen, private.
  Adams, Aaron, private.
  Burt, Thomas, private.
  Baker, William, private.
  Bell, Henry, private.
  Bateman, Jonathan, private.
  Blen, Solomon, private.
  Balding, Oliver, private.
  Bond, Seth, private.
  Cumington, John, private.
  Case, Ezekiel, private.
  Clarke, David, private.
  Carlton, Peleg, private.
  Carlton, Reuben, private.
  Carter, Elisha, private.
  Cogswell, Levi, private.
  Dean, Joel, private.
  Easton, Calvin, private.
  Ellison, James, private.
  Foot, Asahel, private.
  Gleason, Benoni, private.
  Goodrich, Nathaniel, private.
  Gates, Jonah, private.
  Hatch, William of Nobletown, N.Y., private.
  Harrison, Asahel, private.
  Hewitt, Zadok, private.
  Huet, Jeremiah, private.
  Hull, Warren, private.
  Handy, Joseph, of Stockbridge or Lee, private.
  Hide, Charles, private.
  Ingraham, Nathan, corporal.
  Juhel, Joseph, private.
  Knolton, Thomas, private.
  Ladd, Joel, private.
  Lewis, John, private.
  McKnite, Thomas, fifer.
  Meres, John, private.
  Milliken, William, private.
  McKnight, William, private.
  Mack, Warren, private.
  Noble, John, private.
  North, John, private.
  Newell, Seth, private.
  Phelps, John, private.
  Parks, Nathan, private.
  Porter, Joseph, Jr., private.
  Porter, Joseph, Sr., private.
  Robbins, Jason, private.
  Reed, Joseph, private.
  Reed, James, private.
  Smith, Ezekiel, private.
  Stearns, Zehiel, private.
  Stiles, Josiah, private.
  Stoddard, Philemon, private.
  Sears, David, private.
  Tailor, David, private.
  Tomblin, Moses, private.
  West, William, private.
  Wilson, Shubael, private.
  Woodroof, Amos, private.
  Wollison, Shubael, private.
  Thomas (surname undecipherable), private.
  Dunham, Calvin, private.

  CAPTAIN LEVI ELY'S COMPANY.

  Ely, Levi, captain.
  Smith, Martin, lieutenant.
  Fowler, Bildad, of West Springfield, lieutenant.
  Stiles, Gideon, lieutenant.
  Smith, Jonathan, quartermaster sergeant.
  Kendal, William, sergeant.
  Noble, Jacob, sergeant.
  Ainsworth, Luther, private.
  Ashley, James, of Westfield, private.
  Allen, William, private.
  Anderson, Samuel, Jr., of Blandford, private.
  Bruk, Wainwright, private, killed.
  Bills, William, of Westfield, private.
  Baird, John, private.
  Blackwood, Albright, of Soudon, private.
  Badcock, Nathan, private.
  Blair, Alexander, private.
  Church, John, of Westfield, private.
  Colgrove, Joseph, private.
  Chapin, John, private, killed.
  Crooks, James, private.
  Colhiren, Abner, private.
  Conners, Abraham, private, killed.
  Converse, Isaac, private.
  Crow, John, private.
  Copley, Matthew, private.
  Day, Moses, private.
  Day, Asa, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Dewey, Heman, of Westfield, private.
  Dewey, Oliver, of Westfield, private.
  Dimmouth, John, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Ely, Edmond, private.
  Farmar, Elisha, corporal.
  Francis, Aaron, private.
  Francis, Simeon, private.
  Gleason, Daniel, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Hill, Dan, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Hough, Justus, private.
  Herrick, Ebenezer, private.
  Haley, William, private.
  Hubbard, Jonas, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Hill, Primus, private.
  Ingowol, Stephen, drummer.
  Jones, Judah, corporal, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Jones, Ithamar, private.
  Kent, Ezekiel, private.
  Kellegg, Daniel, private.
  Leonard, Russel, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Loomis, Josiah, private.
  Loyhead, Thomas, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Miller, Abner, corporal.
  Morgan, Simeon, private.
  Moor, William, private.
  Mathew, Nathan I., private.
  Nott, Selden, private.
  Noble, Paul, of Westfield, private.
  Noble, Jared, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Plumm, Jared, private.
  Pepper, William, private.
  Pitts, Gideon, private.
  Rimington, Jonathan, private.
  Rogers, Isaac, private.
  Read, Amos, private.
  Stewert, Jesse, corporal.
  Smith, David, fifer.
  Smith, James, private.
  Stewart, Moses, private.
  Shephard, Elijah ?
  Taylor, Joseph, corporal.
  Taylor, Jonathan, private.
  Taylor, Thomas, private.
  Vanslow, Justus, private.
  Worthington, Seth, sergeant.
  Worriner, Lewis, corporal.
  Worthington, Stephen, private.
  Whitney, David, private.
  Williams, Roswell, private.
  Walker, John, private.
  Woodworth, Roswell, private.
  Woolworth, Samuel, private.
  Walton, Elijah, private.

  CAPTAIN JOHN SPOOR'S COMPANY.

  Spoor, John, captain.
  Brooks, Jonathan, of Lanesborough lieutenant.
  Ball, Isaac, of Stockbridge, lieutenant.
  Fish, John, sergeant.
  Jones, William, sergeant.
  Davis, William, corporal.
  Edmun, Andrew, corporal.
  Edy, Briant, private.
  Foster, Jeremiah, of Williamstown (also given Weston), corporal.
  Lemmon, Moses, sergeant, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Tylor, Russell, corporal.
  Jones, Josiah, fifer.
  Cetcham, Joseph, drummer.
  Adams, Peter, private.
  Abbe, John, private.
  Bennett, Jeremiah, private.
  Babcock, Jonathan, private.
  Bradley, Josiah, of Stockbridge, private.
  Bush, Japhet, private.
  Bondish, Asa, private.
  Bigsbey, Peletiah, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Barry, John, private.
  Moses, Charles, of Stockbridge, private.
  Comstock, Medad, private.
  Curk, John, private.
  Chapman, Gershom, private.
  Calender, Ezekiel, private.
  Charles, Darius, private.
  Campbel, Sam, private.
  Dickerman, Joel, sergeant.
  Davis, Robert, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Dewey, Lalson, of Stockbridge, private.
  Egleston, Elijah, private.
  Fuller, Boswell, private, discharged September 28.
  Fitch, Nat, private.
  Foster, Jeremiah, Jr., of Williamstown (also given Weston), private.
  Gaff, Jacob, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Giles, James, private.
  Gregory, "Isband," private.
  Hubbard, Baley, private.
  Heart, Leveret, private.
  Horsford, Ambrose, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Hatch, Solomon, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Holmes, John, private.
  Ingersole, Moses, private.
  King, George, of Sheffield, private.
  Lorris, Jacob, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Meeken, Oliver, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Mansfield, Josiah, private.
  Mash, Abijah, private.
  Monrsurir, Gabriel, private.
  Noble, Joseph, private, killed Oct. 19, 1780.
  Orton, James, private.
  Pixley, Jonah, private.
  Pior, Abner, private.
  Raymond, John, private.
  Rool, "Hewek," private.
  Ransom, Elias, private.
  Root, Roswell, of Sheffield, private.
  Rool, Stephen, private.
  Standish, Asa, private.
  Starr, Thomas, private.
  Saxton, Jesse, private.
  Sprague, Barnabas, private.
  Shearwood, Jonathan, private.
  Tylor, Bezaleel, private.
  Winchel, David, private.
  Watson, Samuel, private.
  Wright, Miles, private.
  Winchel, Ephraim, private.
  Wood, Amaziah, private.
  Webb, Will, private.

  CAPTAIN SAMUEL WARNER'S COMPANY.

  Warner, Samuel, captain.
  Norton, Jonathan, lieutenant.
  Chadwick, Ebenezer, of Tyringham, lieutenant.
  Tracy, David, sergeant.
  Jackson, Joshua, sergeant.
  Brown, Nathaniel, sergeant.
  Rand, James, sergeant.
  Greppen, Alpheus, sergeant.
  Bush, Caleb, of Sandisfield, corporal.
  Jewet, Joseph, corporal.
  Down, Stephen, corporal.
  Powel, Joseph, of Sheffield, corporal.
  Belton, Stephen, corporal.
  Griffins, Thomas, drummer.
  Pope, Gideon, fifer.
  Noble, Saul, private.
  Allen, Rufus, private.
  Bogworth, Frederick, of Sandisfield, private.
  Bogworth, John, of Sandisfield, private.
  Brooks, Shadrack, private.
  Bradle, Isaac, private.
  Bond, Joseph, private.
  Brown, Reuben, of New Marlboro, private.
  Blackmer, Isaac, private.
  Bird, Amos, of Tyringham, private.
  Benton, David, Jr., of Sheffield, private.
  Brookner, Reuben, private.
  Beckett, William, private, killed Oct. 20, 1780.
  Boods, Joel R., private.
  Bradle, Isaac, private.
  Core, Noah, private.
  Clark, Reuben, of Sheffield, private.
  Clark, Wells, private.
  Cooper, Benjamin, private.
  Carter, Elisha, private.
  Cole, Elisha, private.
  Conch, William, of Sandisfield, private.
  Comstock, Rufus, private.
  Callender, Daniel, private, received bounty at Sheffield.
  Denely, John, private.
  Dunham, Calvin, private.
  French, Ebenezer, private.
  ? French, Elisha, private.
  Graten, Care, private.
  Gichel, Joseph, private.
  Gillet, John, private.
  Glaston, Willard, private.
  Guild, Orrange, private.
  Hodg, Daniel, private.
  Huggins, Joseph, of Sheffield, private.
  Heath, George, private.
  Hines, Ezekiel, private.
  Hoskins, Anthony, private.
  Hyde, Theophilus, of Sheffield, private.
  Higgins, Zenas, private.
  Hatch, Seth, of Bennington, private.
  Jaqua, Seth, private.
  Keyes, Elias, private.
  Kilbernt, Robert, private.
  Kelegg, Joel, private.
  Kingsbury, Nathaniel, private.
  Lummis, Noah, private.
  Marel, Abner, private.
  Marcone, Stephen, private.
  Mack, Warren, private.
  Orten, Roger, private.
  Owen, William, of Sheffield, private.
  Remington, Simeon, private.
  Rhods, Adam, private.
  Root, "Rosel," private.
  Sage, David, private.
  Smith, Henry, of Sandisfield, private.
  Spring, Henry, private.
  Skinner, Samuel, private.
  Shed, Samuel, private.
  Shed, Daniel, private.
  Todge, Elias, private.
  Turner, Uriah, private.
  Tuttle, Benjamin, private.
  Underwood, Silas, private.
  Warner, Levi, of Sandisfield, private.
  Warker, Thomas, private.
  Webster, Daniel, private.
  Wollen, Moses, private.
  Whitne, Silas, private.
  White, Solomon, private.
  Bradle, Isaac, private.
  Wording, John M., private.

  CAPTAIN WILLIAM WHITE'S COMPANY.

  White, William, captain.
  Beckit, Silas, lieutenant.
  Sprague, John, lieutenant.
  Day, Elkanah, sergeant.
  Stearns, Isaac, sergeant.
  Barker, Ezra, of Lanesborough, corporal.
  Allen, Benjamin, corporal.
  Brown, Luther, of Windsor, fifer.
  Allen, John, private.
  Arnold, Jonathan, of Hancock, private.
  Bundee, Elisha, private.
  Barnes, Asa, Jr., private.
  Bryant, John, private.
  Barus, Aaron, private.
  Briggs, Benjamin, private.
  Cleaveland, Jedediah, private.
  Cook, Amasa, private.
  Coree, Josiah, Jr., private.
  Chafee, John, private.
  Coree, Josiah, private.
  Carpenter, Benjamin, of Hancock, private.
  Cole, Solomon, private.
  Cowing, Elisha, private.
  Cole, William, Jr., private.
  Doolan, Patrick, private.
  Eddy, Andrew, private.
  Gallop, William, private.
  Hanks, Levi, private.
  Haringdon, William, private.
  Holt, Titus, private.
  Harris, Joseph, private.
  Hall, Calvin, private.
  Hill, Gardner, of Hancock, private.
  Harringdon, Peter, private.
  McFarling, William, private.
  Jarvis, Joseph, private.
  Keeler, James, private.
  Lewis, Richard, of Lanesborough, private, killed October, 1780.
  Leanord, Soloman, private.
  Lusk, Asa, private.
  McGuire, James, private.
  Morehouse, Matthew, of Hancock, private.
  Narramore, Asa, private.
  Oles, Horace, private.
  Parker, Charles, private.
  Pettabone, Amos, private.
  Pearce, Levi, private.
  Parker, Philip, private.
  Parker, Giles, private.
  Powel, Daniel, of Lanesborough, private.
  Pettabone, Roger, private.
  Richardson, Nehemiah, private.
  Ross, Willard, private.
  Robbins, Jonathan, private.
  Reed, Simeon, private.
  Rice, Daniel, private.
  Smith, Jonathan, private.
  Stevens, John, private.
  Smith, Simeon, private.
  Slater, James, private.
  Tracey, William, private.
  Thrasher, Charles, of New Ashford, private.
  White, William, Jr., private.
  Wollcut, Moses, private.

SUMMARY.

Captain William Foord's Company may have been stationed at Middle Fort, Schoharie Valley, under
command of Major Melancton L. Woolsey. See his report of Sept. 27, 1780. It had

  2 Lieutenants,
  4 Sergeants,
  1 Drummer,
  1 Fifer,
  4 Corporals, and 63 men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

  Captain Levi Ely's Company had
  3 Lieutenants,
  1 Quartermaster Sergeant,
  3 Sergeants,
  6 Corporals,
  1 Drummer,
  1 Fifer and 66 men  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Captain Ely and 15 men were killed Oct. 19, 1780.

  Captain John Spoor's Company.
    2 Lieutenants,
    4 Sergeants,
    4 Corporals,
    1 Drummer,
    1 Fifer, and 59 men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

  One man taken prisoner, 11 killed Oct. 19, 1780,
     2 killed Oct. 20, 1780.

  Captain Samuel Warner's Company may have been left at Fort
  Paris or stationed elsewhere.
    2 Lieutenants,
    5 Sergeants,
    5 Corporals,
    1 Drummer,
    1 Fifer, and 73 men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

  Captain William White's Company.
    2 Lieutenants,
    2 Sergeants,
    2 Corporals,
    1 Fifer, and 56 men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

  1 private killed, 1 private wounded, 1 taken prisoner.
                                                                   ---
    Whole force  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

  Total killed Oct. 19, 1780, 29; wounded, 1; prisoner, 1.

Besides these Berkshire men, perhaps Captain John Kasselman's Tryon Company Rangers were at
Fort Paris, and Captain John Zelley's Company at Fort Keyser.

From "New York in the Revolution":--

  Tryon County Rangers.

  Captain, John Kasselman. Lieutenant, John Empie.
  Ensign, George Gittman.

  Badier, John.
  Bickerd, Adolph.
  Dusler, Jacob.
  Empie, John.
  Ettigh, Conrad.
  Fry, Jacob.
  Gittman, Peter.
  Harth, Daniel.
  Hayne, George.
  Hortigh, Andrew.
  House, Peter.
  Kasselman, John.
  Kutzer, Leonard.
  Kulman, Henry.
  Shnell, John.
  Smith, Henry.
  Smith, William.
  Strater, Nicholas.
  Tillenbach, Christian.
  Vanderwerke, John.
  Walter, Adams.
  Walter, Christian.

Probably at Fort Paris.

Captain John Zelley's Company, Second Regiment, Tryon County, Colonel Jacob Klock.

Also John Wafel, William Wafel, Conrad Spraker, George Spraker, William (?) Dygert.

Probably at Fort Keyser.

NOTE 5.

See "Rules and Articles for better Government of the Troops of the Thirteen United English
Colonies of North America." Printed by William and Thomas Bradford, 1775. John Hancock, President.
Philadelphia, Nov. 7, 1775. (Massachusetts Historical Society Collections.)

Plunder or pillage always incident to war, and, whatever rules exist for restraint, the conflict
usually leads to authorized devastation and plunder, retaliatory to exhaust the enemy. For
instances, in Civil War of 1861-65, Sherman's destruction of property in march through Southern
territory, Sheridan's destroying agents in the Shenandoah Valley.

By Hague rule of 1899, July 29, pillage of a town or place even when taken by assault is prohibited.

How about Allies in Pekin?

See Instructions to United States Army in the field. General Orders, April 24, 1863, War of
Rebellion:--

All wanton violence committed against persons in the invaded country, all destruction of property
not commanded by the authorized officer, all robbing, all pillage and sacking even after taking
a place by main force, all rape, wounding, maiming or killing of such inhabitants are prohibited,
under penalty of death or such other severe punishment as may seem adequate to the gravity
of the offence.

A soldier, officer, or private may be killed by superior officer for such act. See John Bassett
Moore's "Digest of International Law."

NOTE 6.

Brown was more outspoken than General Wayne. See "Major-general Anthony Wayne, and the Pennsylvania
Line," by Charles J. Stillé, President Historical Society of Pennsylvania. J. B. Lippincott
Company, 1893. (Pages 235 et seq.)

                GENERAL ANTHONY WAYNE TO H. A. SHEEL.

                                 HAVERSTRAW NEAR STONEY POINT
                                             2d Oct 1780.

     Dear Sheel

     I am confident that the perfidy of Genl. Arnold will astonish the
     multitude--the high rank he bore--the eclat he had obtained
     (whether honestly or not) justified the world in giving it him.

     But there were a few Gentlemen who at a very early period of this
     war became acquainted with his true character! when you asked my
     opinion of that officer I gave it freely & believe you thought it
     rather strongly shaded.

     I think I informed you that I had the most despicable Idea of him
     both as a Gentleman & a Soldier--& that he had produced a
     conviction on me in 1776 that honor & true Virtue were Strangers
     to his Soul and however Contradictory it might appear--that he
     never possessed either fortitude or personal bravery--he was
     naturally a Coward and never went in the way of Danger but when
     Stimulated by liquor even to Intoxication, consequently
     Incapacitated from Conducting any Command Committed to his
     charge.

     I shall not dwell upon his Military Character or the measures he
     had adopted for the surrender of West Point--that being already
     fully Elucidated but will give you a small specimen of his
     peculate talents.

     What think you of his employing Sutlers to retail the publick
     Liquors for his private Emolument & furnishing his Quarters with
     beds & other furniture by paying for them with Pork, Salt, Flour
     &c. drawn from the Magazine--he has not stopped here, he has
     descended much lower--& defrauded the old Veteran Soldiers who
     have bled for their Country in many a well fought field--for more
     than five Campaigns among others an old Sergeant of mine has felt
     his rapacity by the Industry of this man's wife they had
     accumulated something handsome to support them in their advanced
     age--which coming to the knowledge of this cruel Spoiler--he
     borrowed 4500 dollars from the poor Credulous Woman & left her in
     the lurch.

     The dirty--dirty acts which he has been capable of Committing
     beggar all description--and are of such a nature as would cause
     the Infernals to blush--were they accused with the Invention or
     Execution of them.

     The detached & Debilitated state of the Garrison of West
     Point--Insured success to the assailants--the enemy were all in
     perfect readiness for the Enterprise--& the discovery of the
     treason only prevented an Immediate attempt by open force to
     carry those works which perfidy would have effected the fall
     of, by a slower & less sanguine mode.--Our army was out of
     protecting distance the troops in the possession of the Works a
     spiritless Miserabile Vulgus--in whose hands the fate of America
     seemed suspended in this Situation his Excellency (in imitation
     of Cæsar & his tenth legion) called for his Veterans--the
     summons arrived at one o'clock in the morning & we took up our
     line of March at 2.

                    HUGH A. SHEEL TO GENERAL WAYNE.

                                               PHILA Oct. 22, 1780

     My dear General

     ... the character you gave me in confidence of Arnold several
     months ago made a strong impression on my mind it has been
     verified fully--his villany & machinations never could have been
     carried on but through the medium of his Tory acquaintance in
     this place....

APPENDIX.

A very valuable map of the Province of New York, by Claude Joseph Sauthier, drawn for Major-general
William Tryon in 1779, is found in "The Documentary History of New York," showing the Mohawk
Valley grants, old forts, etc.

Fort Paris, Dec. 19, 1776, Captain Christian Getman's Rangers, Tryon County militia, were stationed
at Stone Arabia, and were ordered, when not ranging, to cut timber for building a fort, under
direction of Isaac Paris, Esq. (Mr. Paris was in Provincial Congress and later in State Senate.)
It was a palisaded enclosure of stone and block-houses for a garrison of from two to three
hundred (200-300) men. Begun in December, 1776, it was completed in the spring of 1777. It
was situated on a most beautiful plain three or four miles north-east of Fort Plain, one-half
a mile north of Stone Arabia churches, twelve (12) rods from the road. North of it water would
run into the Sacondaga, and thence into upper waters of the Hudson; south into Mohawk waters.
It is easily reached from Palatine Bridge, and is nearly one thousand feet above sea-level.
In the fall of 1779, Colonel Fred. Fisher (Visscher), of Third Regiment, Tryon County militia,
was at Fort Paris.

May 12, 1780, Colonel Jacob Klock, Second Regiment of Tryon County men, was there.

June 24, 1780, General Robert Van Rensselaer, of Second Brigade of Albany militia, was ordered
to Fort Paris.

July 26, 1780, he left there (perhaps, however, to return), to assist the Canajoharie men at
Fort Schuyler.

When John Brown took command there I do not know.

The conclusion of the matter of Oct. 19, 1780 was battle of Klock's Field or Fox's Mills. On
that day and the 18th Sir John Johnson laid waste the whole of Stone Arabia district after
burning Caughnawaga.

Brown's defeat in the morning of October 19 did not, however, involve Fort Paris, which was
held by Major Root. Although immediate relief of the fort and pursuit of Johnson were essential,
Van Rensselaer did not cross the Mohawk until afternoon, crossing at Fort Plain. The enemy
was entrenched on the north side of the river, about St. Johnsville, near a stockade or block-house
at Klock's. Fort House, a small block-house, was the exact place where just before night a
"smart brush" occurred between the British and the Americans under Colonel Dubois. Colonel
Dubois took a position above Johnson, on the heights of the north side, to prevent his passage
up the river. Colonel Harper, with the Oneida Indians, was on the south side of the river,
nearly opposite. General Van Rensselaer after all this forward movement and the slight attack,
did not hold his position, but fell back three miles down the river.

The enemy camped on land of the late Judge Jacob G. Klock, I suppose, colonel of Second Regiment,
Tryon County militia, and, "soon after the moon appeared," moved to a fording-place just above
a well-known citizen's (Nathan Christie) residence, and retreated on the south side of the
Mohawk, passing Oneida Castle, and pushing westward for Canaseraga on Chittenango Creek, near
Lake Oneida.

