Another illustration of the importance of proper radii at all changes of section is given in
the case of the Liberty crankshaft. The presence of tool marks or under cuts must be completely
eliminated from an aviation engine crankshaft to secure proper service. During the duration
of the Liberty program, four crankshafts failed from fatigue, failures starting from sharp
corners at bottom of propeller-hub keyway. Two of the shafts that failed showed torsional spirals
running more than completely around the shaft. As soon as this difficulty was removed no further
trouble was experienced.

One of the most important difficulties encountered in connection with the production of Liberty
crankshafts was hair-line seams. The question of hair-line seams has been discussed to greater
length by engineers and metallurgists during the war than any other single question. Hair-line
seams are caused by small non-metallic inclusions in the steel. There is every reason to believe
that these inclusions are in the greater majority of cases manganese sulphide. There is a great
difference of opinion as to the exact effect of hair-line seams on the service of an aviation
engine crankshaft. It is the opinion of many that hair-line seams do not in any way affect
the endurance of a crankshaft in service, provided they are parallel to the grain of the steel
and do not occur on a fillet. Of the 20,000 Liberty engines produced, fully 50 per cent of
the crankshafts used contain hair-line seams but not at the locations mentioned. There has
never been a failure of a Liberty crankshaft which could in any way be traced to hair-line seams.

It was found that hair-line seams occur generally on high nickel-chromium steels. One of the
main reasons why the comparatively mild analysis nickel-chromium steel was used was due to
the very few hair-line seams present in it. It was also determined that the hair lines will
in general be found near the surface of the forgings. For that reason, as much finish as possible
was allowed for machining. A number of tests have been made on forging bars to determine the
depths at which hair-line seams are found, and many cases came up in which hair-line seams
were found 3/8 in. from the surface of the bar. This means that in case a crankshaft does not
show hair-line seams on the ground surface this is no indication that it is free from such
a defect.

One important peculiarity of nickel-chromium steel was brought out from the results obtained
on impact tests. This peculiarity is known as "blue brittleness." Just what the effect of this
is on the service of a finished part depends entirely upon the design of the particular part
in question. There have been no failures of any nickel-chromium steel parts in the automotive
industry which could in any way be traced to this phenomena.

Whether or not nickel-chromium-steel forgings will show "blue brittleness" depends entirely
upon the temperature at which they are tempered and their rate of cooling from this temperature.
The danger range for tempering nickel-chromium steels is between a temperature of from 400
to 1,100°F. From the data so far gathered on this phenomena, it is necessary that the nickel-chromium
steel to show "blue brittleness" be made by the acid process. There has never come to my attention
a single instance in which basic open hearth steel has shown this phenomena. Just why the acid
open hearth steel should be sensitive to "blue brittleness" is not known.

All that is necessary to eliminate the presence of "blue brittleness" is to quench all nickel-chromium-steel
forgings in water from their tempering temperature. The last 20,000 Liberty crankshafts that
were made were quenched in this manner.

PISTON PIN

The piston pin on an aviation engine must possess maximum resistance to wear and to fatigue.
For this reason, the piston pin is considered, from a metallurgical standpoint, the most important
part on the engine to produce in quantities and still possess the above characteristics. The
heat treatment used to obtain the above physical properties consisted in carburizing at a temperature
not to exceed 1,675°F., for a sufficient length of time to secure a case of from 0.02 to 0.04
in. deep. The pins are then allowed to cool slowly from the carbonizing heat, after which the
hole is finish-machined and the pin cut to length. The finish heat treatment of the piston
pin consisted in quenching in oil from a temperature of from 1,525 to 1,575°F. to refine the
grain of core properly and then quenching in oil at a temperature of from 1,340 to 1,380°F.
to refine and harden the grain of the case properly, as well as to secure proper hardness of
core. After this quenching, all piston pins are tempered in oil at a temperature of from 375
to 400°F. A 100 per cent inspection for scleroscope hardness of the case and the core was made,
and no failures were ever recorded when the above material and heat treatment was used.

APPLICATION TO THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY

The information given on the various parts of the Liberty engine applies with equal force to
the corresponding parts in the construction of an automobile, truck or tractor. It is sufficiently
uniform to be used for unimportant carburized parts, as well as for non-heat-treated screw-machine
parts. A number of the large automobile manufacturers are now specifying this material in preference
to the regular bessemer grades.

As second choice for carbon-steel screw-machine parts we recommend ordinary bessemer screw
stock, purchased in accordance with S. A. E. specification No. 1114. The advantage of using
No. 1114 steel lies in the fact that the majority of warehouses carry standard sizes of this
material in stock at all times. The disadvantage of using this material is due to its lack
of uniformity.

The important criterion for transmission gears is resistance to wear. To secure proper resistance
to wear a Brinell hardness of from 512 to 560 must be obtained. The material selected to obtain
this hardness should be one which can be made most nearly uniform, will undergo forging operations
the easiest, will be the hardest to overheat or burn, will machine best and will respond to
a good commercial range of heat treatment.

It is a well-known fact that the element chromium, when in the form of chromium carbide in
alloy steel, offers the greatest resistance to wear of any combination yet developed. It is
also a well-known fact that the element nickel in steel gives excellent shock-resisting properties
as well as resistance to wear but not nearly as great a resistance to wear as chromium. It
has been standard practice for a number of years for many manufacturers to use a high nickel-chromium
steel for transmission gears. However, it is possible to obtain the same quality of service
and at the same time appreciably reduce the cost of the finished part. The gear steel specified
is of the air-hardening type. It is extremely sensitive to secondary pipe, as well as seams,
and is extremely difficult to forge and very easy to overheat. The heat-treatment range is
very wide, but the danger from quenching cracks is very great. In regard to the machineability,
this material is the hardest to machine of any alloy steel known.

COMPOSITION OF TRANSMISSION-GEAR STEEL

If the nickel content of this steel is eliminated, and the percentage of chromium raised slightly,
an ideal transmission-gear material is obtained. Approximately 2,500 sets of transmission gears
are being made daily from material of this analysis and are giving entirely satisfactory results
in service. The heat treatment of the above material for transmission gears is as follows:
"Normalize forgings at a temperature of from 1,5.50 to 1,600°F. Cool from this temperature
to a temperature of 1,100°F. at the rate of 50° per hour. Cool from 1,100°F., either in air
or quench in water."

Forgings so treated will show a Brinell hardness of from 177 to 217, which is the proper range
for the best machineability. The heat treatment of the finished gears consists of quenching
in oil from a temperature of 1,500 to 1,540°F., followed by tempering in oil at a temperature
of from 375 to 425°F. Gears so treated will show a Brinell hardness of from 512 to 560, or
a scleroscope hardness of from 72 to 80. One tractor builder has placed in service 20,000 sets
of gears of this type of material and has never had to replace a gear. Taking into consideration
the fact that a tractor transmission is subjected to the worst possible service conditions,
and that it is under high stress 90 per cent of the time, it seems inconceivable that any appreciable
transmission trouble would be experienced when material of this type is used on an automobile,
where the full load is applied not over 1 per cent of the time, or on trucks where the full
load is applied not over 50 per cent of the time.

The gear hardness specified is necessary to reduce to a minimum the pitting or surface fatigue
of the teeth. If gears having a Brinell hardness of over 560 are used, danger is encountered,
due to low shock-resisting properties. If the Brinell hardness is under 512, trouble is experienced
due to wear and surface fatigue of the teeth. The advantage of using a material of the above
type lies in the fact that it will produce a satisfactory finished part with a very simple
treatment. The heat treatment of ring gears and pinions is as follows: "Carburize at a temperature
of from 1,650 to 1,700°F. for a sufficient length of time to secure a depth of case of from
1/32 to 3/64 in., and quench directly from carburizing heat in oil. Reheat to a temperature
of from 1,430 to 1,460°F. and quench in oil. Temper in oil at a temperature of from 375 to
425°F. The final quenching operation on a ring gear should be made on a fixture similar to
the Gleason press to reduce distortion to a minimum."

One of the largest producers of ring gears and pinions in the automotive industry has been
using this material and treatment for the last 2 years, and is of the opinion that he is now
producing the highest quality product ever turned out by that plant.

On some designs of automobiles a large amount of trouble is experienced with the driving pinion.
The pinions are then quenched in oil from a temperature of 1,500 to 1,525°F. to refine the
grain of the core and quenched in oil from a temperature of from 1,340 to 1,360°F. To refine
and harden the case. The use of this material however, is recommended only in an emergency,
as high-nickel steel is very susceptible to seams, secondary pipe and laminations.

The main criterion on rear-axle and pinion shafts, steering knuckles and arms and parts of
this general type is resistance to fatigue and torsion. The material recommended for parts
of this character is either S. A. E. No. 6135 or No. 3135 steel, which have the chemical composition
given in Tables 9 and 7.

The heat treatment used to secure these physical properties consists in quenching from a temperature
of from 1,520 to 1,540°F. in water and tempering at a temperature of from 975 to 1,025°F. Where
the axle shaft is a forging, and in the case of steering knuckles and arms, this heat treatment
should be preceded by normalizing the forgings at a temperature of from 1,550 to 1,600°F. It
will be noted that these physical properties correspond to those worked out for an ideal aviation
engine crankshaft. If parts of this type are designed with proper sections, so that this range
of physical properties can be used, the part in question will give maximum service.

One of the most important developments during the Liberty engine program was the fact that
it is not necessary to use a high-analysis alloy steel to secure a finished part which will
give proper service. This fact should save the automotive industry millions of dollars on future
production.

If the proper authority be given the metallurgical engineer to govern the handling of the steel
from the time it is purchased until it is assembled into finished product, mild-analysis steels
can be used and the quality of the finished product guaranteed. It was only through the careful
adherence to these fundamental principles that it was possible to produce 20,000 Liberty engines,
which are considered to be the most highly stressed mechanism ever produced, without the failure
of a single engine from defective material or heat treatment.

MAKING STEEL BALLS

Steel balls are made from rods or coils according to size, stock less than 9/16-in. comes in
coils. Stock 5/8-in. and larger comes in rods. Ball stock is designated in thousandths so that
5/8-in. rods are known as 0.625-in. stock.

Steel for making balls of average size is made up of:

  Carbon                         0.95 to 1.05 per cent
  Silicon                        0.20 to 0.35 per cent
  Manganese                      0.30 to 0.45 per cent
  Chromium                       0.35 to 0.45 per cent
  Sulphur and phosphorus not to exceed  0.025 per cent

For the larger sizes a typical analysis is:

  Carbon        1.02  per cent
  Silicon       0.21  per cent
  Manganese     0.40  per cent
  Chromium      0.65  per cent
  Sulphur       0.026 per cent
  Phosphorus    0.014 per cent

Balls 5/8 in. and below are formed cold on upsetting or heading machines, the stock use is
as follows:

 TABLE 14.--SIZES OF STOCK FOR FORMING BALLS ON HEADER
 -------------------------------------------------------
  Diameter of | Diameter of | Diameter of | Diameter of
  ball, inch  | stock inch  | ball, inch  | stock, inch
 -------------|-------------|-------------|-------------
      1/8     |    0.100    |     5/16    |    0.235
      5/32    |    0.120    |     3/8     |    0.275
      3/16    |    0.145    |     7/16    |    0.320
      7/32    |    0.170    |     1/2     |    0.365
      1/4     |    0.190    |     9/16    |    0.395
      9/32    |    0.220    |     5/8     |    0.440
 -------------------------------------------------------

For larger balls the blanks are hot-forged from straight bars. They are usually forged in multiples
of four under a spring hammer and then separated by a suitable punching or shearing die in
a press adjoining the hammer. The dimensions are:

 -----------------------------------------------------------
  Diameter of ball, | Diameter of die, | Diameter of stock,
        inch        |       inch       |       inch
 -------------------|------------------|--------------------
         3/4        |      0.775       |       0.625
         7/8        |      0.905       |       0.729
          1         |      1.035       |       0.823
 -----------------------------------------------------------

Before hardening, the balls are annealed to relieve the stresses of forging and grinding, this
being done by passing them through a revolving retort made of nichrome or other heat-resisting
substance. The annealing temperature is 1,300°F.

The hardening temperature is from 1,425 to 1,475°F. according to size and composition of steel.
Small balls, 5/16 and under, are quenched in oil, the larger sizes in water. In some special
cases brine is used. Quenching small balls in water is too great a shock as the small volume
is cooled clear through almost instantly. The larger balls have metal enough to cool more slowly.

Balls which are cooled in either water or brine are boiled in water for 2 hr. to relieve internal
stresses, after which the balls are finished by dry-grinding and oil-grinding.

The ball makers have an interesting method of testing stock for seams which do not show in
the rod or wire. The Hoover Steel Ball Company cut off pieces of rod or wire 7/16 in. long
and subject them to an end pressure of from 20,000 to 50,000 lb. A pressure of 20,000 lb. compresses
the piece to 3/16 in. and the 50,000 lb. pressure to 3/32 in. This opens any seam which may
exist but a solid bar shows no seam.

Another method which has proved very successful is to pass the bar or rod to be tested through
a solenoid electro-magnet. With suitable instruments it is claimed that this is an almost infallible
test as the instruments show at once when a seam or flaw is present in the bar.

CHAPTER V

THE FORGING OF STEEL

So much depends upon the forging of steel that this operation must be carefully supervised.
This is especially true because of the tendency to place unskilled and ignorant men as furnace-tenders
and hammer men. The main points to be supervised are the slow and careful heating to the proper
temperature; forging must be continued at a proper rate to the correct temperature. The bar
of stock from which a forging was made may have had a fairly good structure, but if the details
of the working are not carefully watched, a seamy, split article of no value may easily result.

HEATING.--Although it is possible to work steels cold, to an extent depending upon their ductility,
and although such operations are commonly performed, "forging" usually means working heated
steel. Heating is therefore a vital part of the process.

Heating should be done slowly in a soaking heat. A soft "lazy" flame with excess carbon is
necessary to avoid burning the corners of the bar or billet, and heavily scaling the surface.
If the temperature is not raised slowly, the outer part of the metal may be at welding heat
while the inner part is several hundred degrees colder and comparatively hard and brittle.

The above refers to muffle furnaces. If the heating is done in a small blacksmith's forge,
the fire should be kept clean, and remade at intervals of about two hours. Ashes and cinders
should be cleaned from the center down to the tuyere and oily waste and wood used to start
a new fire. As this kindles a layer of coke from the old fire is put on top, and another layer
of green coal (screened and dampened blacksmiths' coal) as a cover. When the green coal on
top has been coked the fire is ready for use. As the fuel burns out in the center, the coke
forming around the edge is pushed inward, and its place taken by more green coal. Thus the
fire is made up of three parts; the center where coke is burning and the iron heating; a zone
where coke is forming, and the outside bank of green coal.

STEEL WORKED IN AUSTENITIC STATE.--As a general rule steel should be worked when it is in the
austenitic state. (See page 108.) It is then soft and ductile.

As the steel is heated above the critical temperature the size of the austenite crystals tends
to grow rapidly. When forging starts, however, these grains are broken up. The growth is continually
destroyed by the hammering, which should consequently be continued down to the upper critical
temperature when the austenite crystals break up into ferrite and cementite. The size of the
final grains will be much smaller and hence a more uniform structure will result if the "mother"
austenite was also fine grained. A final steel will be composed of pearlite; ferrite and pearlite;
or cementite and pearlite, according to the carbon content.

The ultimate object is to secure a fine, uniform grain throughout the piece and this can be
secured by uniform heating and by thoroughly rolling it or working it at a temperature just
down to its critical point. If this is correctly done the fracture will be fine and silky.
Steel which has been overheated slightly and the forging stopped at too high a temperature
will show a "granular" fracture. A badly overheated or "burned" steel will have iridescent
colors on a fresh fracture, it will be brittle both hot and cold, and absolutely ruined.

STEEL CAN BE WORKED COLD.--As noted above, steel can be worked cold, as in the case of cold-rolled
steel. Heat treatment of cold-worked steel is a very delicate operation. Cold working hardens
and strengthens steel. It also introduces internal stresses. Heat-treatments are designed to
eliminate the stresses without losing the hardness and strength. This is done by tempering
at a low heat. Avoid the "blue" range (350 to 750°C.). Tempering for a considerable time just
under the critical is liable to cause great brittleness. Annealing (reheating through the critical)
destroys the effect of cold work.

FORGING

HIGH-SPEED STEEL.--Heat very slowly and carefully to from 1,800 to 2,000°F. and forge thoroughly
and uniformly. If the forging operation is prolonged do not continue forging the tool when
the steel begins to stiffen under the hammer. Do not forge below 1,700°F. (a dark lemon or
orange color). Reheat frequently rather than prolong the hammering at the low heats.

After finishing the forging allow the tool to cool as slowly as possible in lime or dry ashes;
avoid placing the tool on the damp ground or in a draught of air. Use a good clean fire for
heating. Do not allow the tool to soak at the forging heat. Do not heat any more of the tool
than is necessary in order to forge it to the desired shape.

CARBON TOOL STEEL.--Heat to a bright red, about 1,500 to 1,550°F. Do not hammer steel when
it cools down to a dark cherry red, or just below its hardening point, as this creates surface
cracks.

OIL-HARDENING STEEL.--Heat slowly and uniformly to 1,450°F. and forge thoroughly. Do not under
any circumstances attempt to harden at the forging heat. After cooling from forging reheat
to about 1,450°F. and cool slowly so as to remove forging strains.

CHROME-NICKEL STEEL.--Forging heat of chrome-nickel steel depends very largely on the percentage
of each element contained in the steel. Steel containing from 1/2 to 1 per cent chromium and
from 1-1/2 to 3-1/2 per cent nickel, with a carbon content equal to the chromium, should be
heated very slowly and uniformly to approximately 1,600° F., or salmon color. After forging,
reheat the steel to about 1,450° and cool slowly so as to remove forging strains. Do not attempt
to harden the steel before such annealing.

A great deal of steel is constantly being spoiled by carelessness in the forging operation.
The billets may be perfectly sound, but even if the steel is heated to a good forging heat,
and is hammered too lightly, a poor forging results. A proper blow will cause the edges and
ends to bulge slightly outwards--the inner-most parts of the steel seem to flow faster than
the surface. Light blows will work the surface out faster; the edges and ends will curve inwards.
This condition in extreme cases leaves a seam in the axis of the forging.

Steel which is heated quickly and forging begun before uniform heat has penetrated to its center
will open up seams because the cooler central portion is not able to flow with the hot metal
surrounding it. Uniform heating is absolutely necessary for the best results.

Figure 16 shows a sound forging. The bars in Fig. 17 were burst by improper forging, while
the die, Fig. 18, burst from a piped center.

Figure 19 shows a piece forged with a hammer too light for the size of the work. This gives
an appearance similar to case-hardening, the refining effect of the blows reaching but a short
distance from the surface.

While it is impossible to accurately rate the capacity of steam hammers with respect to the
size of work they should handle, on account of the greatly varying conditions, a few notes
from the experience of the Bement works of the Niles-Bement-Pond Company will be of service.

For making an occasional forging of a given size, a smaller hammer may be used than if we are
manufacturing this same piece in large quantities. If we have a 6-in. piece to forge, such
as a pinion or a short shaft, a hammer of about 1,100-lb. capacity would answer very nicely.
But should the general work be as large as this, it would be very much better to use a 1,500-lb.
hammer. If, on the other hand, we wish to forge 6-in. axles economically, it would be necessary
to use a 7,000- or 8,000-lb. hammer. The following table will be found convenient for reference
for the proper size of hammer to be used on different classes of general blacksmith work, although
it will be understood that it is necessary to modify these to suit conditions, as has already
been indicated.

  Diameter of stock    Size of hammer
  3-1/2 in.             250 to   350 lb.
  4     in.             350 to   600 lb.
  4-1/2 in.             600 to   800 lb.
  5     in.             800 to 1,000 lb.
  6     in.           1,100 to 1,500 lb.

Steam hammers are always rated by the weight of the ram, and the attached parts, which include
the piston and rod, nothing being added on account of the steam pressure behind the piston.
This makes it a little difficult to compare them with plain drop or tilting hammers, which
are also rated in the same way.

Steam hammers are usually operated at pressures varying from 75 to 100 lb. of steam per square
inch, and may also be operated by compressed air at about the same pressures. It is cheaper,
however, in the case of compressed air to use pressures from 60 to 80 lb. instead of going higher.

Forgings must, however, be made from sound billets if satisfactory results are to be secured.
Figure 20 shows three cross-sections of which A is sound, B is badly piped and C is worthless.

PLANT FOR FORGING RIFLE BARRELS

The forging of rifle barrels in large quantities and heat-treating them to meet the specifications
demanded by some of the foreign governments led Wheelock, Lovejoy & Company to establish a
complete plant for this purpose in connection with their warehouse in Cambridge, Mass. This
plant, designed and constructed by their chief engineer, K. A. Juthe, had many interesting
features. Many features of this plant can be modified for other classes of work.

The stock, which came in bars of mill length, was cut off so as to make a barrel with the proper
allowances for trimming (Fig. 21). They then pass to the forging or upsetting press in the
adjoining room. This press, which is shown in more detail in Fig. 22, handled the barrels from
all the heating furnaces shown. The men changed work at frequent intervals, to avoid excessive
fatigue.

Then the barrels were reheated in the continuous furnace, shown in Fig. 23, and straightened
before being tested.

The barrels were next tested for straightness. After the heat-treating, the ends are ground,
a spot ground on the enlarged end and each barrel tested on a Brinell machine. The pressure
used is 3,000 kg., or 6,614 lb., on a 10-millimeter ball, which is standard. Hardness of 240
was desired.

The heat-treating of the rifle blanks covered four separate operations: (1) Heating and soaking
the steel above the critical temperature and quenching in oil to harden the steel through to
the center; (2) reheating for drawing of temper for the purpose of meeting the physical specifications;
(3) reheating to meet the machine ability test for production purposes; and (4) reheating to
straighten the blanks while hot.

A short explanation of the necessity for the many heats may be interesting. For the first heat,
the blanks were slowly brought to the required heat, which is about 150°F. above the critical
temperature. They are then soaked at a high heat for about 1 hr. before quenching. The purpose
of this treatment is to eliminate any rolling or heat stresses that might be in the bars from
mill operations; also to insure a thorough even heat through a cross-section of the steel.
This heat also causes blanks with seams or slight flaws to open up in quenching, making detection
of defective blanks very easy.

The quenching oil was kept at a constant temperature of 100°F., to avoid subjecting the steel
to shocks, thereby causing surface cracks. The drawing of temper was the most critical operation
and was kept within a 10° fluctuation. The degree of heat necessary depends entirely on the
analysis of the steel, there being a certain variation in the different heats of steel as received
from the mill.

MACHINEABILITY

Reheating for machine ability was done at 100° less than the drawing temperature, but the time
of soaking is more than double. After both drawing and reheating, the blanks were buried in
lime where they remain, out of contact with the air, until their temperature had dropped to
that of the workroom.

For straightening, the barrels were heated to from 900 to 1,000°F. in an automatic furnace
25 ft. long, this operation taking about 2 hr. The purpose of hot straightening was to prevent
any stresses being put into the blanks, so that after rough-turning, drilling or rifling operations
they would not have a tendency to spring back to shape as left by the quenching bath.

A method that produces an even better machining rifle blank, which practically stays straight
through the different machining operations, was to rough-turn the blanks, then subject them
to a heat of practically 1,0000 for 4 hr. Production throughout the different operations is
materially increased, with practically no straightening required after drilling, reaming, finish-turning
or rifling operations.

This method was tested out by one of the largest manufacturers and proved to be the best way
to eliminate a very expensive finished gun-barrel straightening process.

The heat-treating required a large amount of cooling oil, and the problem of keeping this at
the proper temperature required considerable study. The result was the cooling plant on the
roof, as shown in Figs. 24, 25 and 26. The first two illustrations show the plant as it appeared
complete. Figure 26 shows how the oil was handled in what is sometimes called the ebulator
system. The oil was pumped up from the cooling tanks through the pipe A to the tank B. From
here it ran down onto the breakers or separators C, which break the oil up into fine particles
that are caught by the fans D. The spray is blown up into the cooling tower E, which contains
banks of cooling pipes, as can be seen, as well as baffies F. The spray collects on the cool
pipes and forms drops, which fall on the curved plates G and run back to the oil-storage tank
below ground.

The water for this cooling was pumped from 10 artesian wells at the rate of 60 gal. per minute
and cooled 90 gal. of oil per minute, lowering the temperature from 130 or 140 to 100°F. The
water as it came from the wells averaged around 52°F. The motor was of a 7-1/2-hp. variable-speed
type with a range of from 700 to 1,200 r.p.m., which could be varied to suit the amount of
oil to be cooled. The plant handled 300 gal. of oil per minute.

CHAPTER VI

ANNEALING

There is no mystery or secret about the proper annealing of different steels, but in order
to secure the best results it is absolutely necessary for the operator to know the kind of
steel which is to be annealed. The annealing of steel is primarily done for one of three specific
purposes: To soften for machining purposes; to change the physical properties, largely to increase
ductility; or to release strains caused by rolling or forging.

Proper annealing means the heating of the steel slowly and uniformly to the right temperature,
the holding of the temperature for a given period and the gradual cooling to normal temperature.
The proper temperature depends on the kind of steel, and the suggestions of the maker of the
special steel being used should be carefully followed. For carbon steel the temperatures recommended
for annealing vary from 1,450 to 1,600°F. This temperature need not be long continued. The
steel should be cooled in hot sand, lime or ashes. If heated in the open forge the steel should
be buried in the cooling material as quickly as possible, not allowing it to remain in the
open air any longer than absolutely necessary. Best results, however, are secured when the
fire does not come in direct contact with the steel.

Good results are obtained by packing the steel in iron boxes or tubes, much as for case-hardening
or carbonizing, using the same materials. Pieces do not require to be entirely surrounded by
carbon for annealing, however. Do not remove from boxes until cold.

Steel to be annealed may be classified into four different groups, each of which must be treated
according to the elements contained in its particular analysis. Different methods are therefore
necessary to bring about the desired result. The classifications are as follows: High-speed
steel, alloy steel, tool or crucible steel, and high-carbon machinery steel.

ANNEALING OF HIGH-SPEED STEEL

For annealing high-speed steel, some makers recommend using ground mica, charcoal, lime, fine
dry ashes or lake sand as a packing in the annealing boxes. Mixtures of one part charcoal,
one part lime and three parts of sand are also suggested, or two parts of ashes may be substituted
for the one part of lime.

To bring about the softest structure or machine ability of high-speed steel, it should be packed
in charcoal in boxes or pipes, carefully sealed at all points, so that no gases will escape
or air be admitted. It should be heated slowly to not less than 1,450°F. and the steel must
not be removed from its packing until it is cool. Slow heating means that the high heat must
have penetrated to the very core of the steel.

When the steel is heated clear through it has been in the furnace long enough. If the steel
can remain in the furnace and cool down with it, there will be no danger of air blasts or sudden
or uneven cooling. If not, remove the box and cover quickly with dry ashes, sand or lime until
it becomes cold.

Too high a heat or maintaining the heat for too long a period, produces a harsh, coarse grain
and greatly increases the liability to crack in hardening. It also reduces the strength and
toughness of the steel.

Steel which is to be used for making tools with teeth, such as taps, reamers and milling cutters,
should not be annealed too much. When the steel is too soft it is more apt to tear in cutting
and makes it more difficult to cut a smooth thread or other surface. Moderate annealing is
found best for tools of this kind.

TOOL OR CRUCIBLE STEEL

Crucible steel can be annealed either in muffled furnace or by being packed. Packing is by
far the most satisfactory method as it prevents scaling, local hard spots, uneven annealing,
or violent changes in shape. It should be brought up slowly to just above its calescent or
hardening temperature. The operator must know before setting his heats the temperature at which
the different carbon content steels are hardened. The higher the carbon contents the lower
is the hardening heat, but this should in no case be less than 1,450°F.

ANNEALING ALLOY STEEL

The term alloy steel, from the steel maker's point of view, refers largely to nickel and chromium
steel or a combination of both. These steels are manufactured very largely by the open-hearth
process, although chromium steels are also a crucible product. It is next to impossible to
give proper directions for the proper annealing of alloy steel unless the composition is known
to the operator.

Nickel steels may be annealed at lower temperatures than carbon steels, depending upon their
alloy content. For instance, if a pearlitic carbon steel may be annealed at 1,450°C., the same
analysis containing 2-1/2 per cent nickel may be annealed at 1,360°C. and a 5 per cent nickel
steel at 1,270°.

In order that high chromium steels may be readily machined, they must be heated at or slightly
above the critical for a very long time, and cooled through the critical at an extremely slow
rate. For a steel containing 0.9 to 1.1 per cent carbon, under 0.50 per cent manganese, and
about 1.0 per cent chromium, Bullens recommends the following anneal:

  1. Heat to 1,700 or 1,750°F.
  2. Air cool to about 800°F.
  3. Soak at 1,425 to 1,450°F.
  4. Cool slowly in furnace.

HIGH-CARBON MACHINERY STEEL

The carbon content of this steel is above 30 points and is hardly ever above 60 points or 0.60
per cent. Annealing such steel is generally in quantity production and does not require the
care that the other steels need because it is very largely a much cheaper product and a great
deal of material is generally removed from the outside surface.

The purpose for which this steel is annealed is a deciding factor as to what heat to give it.
If it is for machineability only, the steel requires to be brought up slowly to just below
the critical and then slowly cooled in the furnace or ash pit. It must be thoroughly covered
so that there will be no access of cool air. If the annealing is to increase ductility to the
maximum extent it should be slowly heated to slightly over the upper critical temperature and
kept at this heat for a length of time necessary for a thorough penetration to the core, after
which it can be cooled to about 1,200°F., then reheated to about 1,360°F., when it can be removed
and put in an ash pit or covered with lime. If the annealing is just to relieve strains, slow
heating is not necessary, but the steel must be brought up to a temperature not much less than
a forging or rolling heat and gradually cooled. Covering in this case is only necessary in
steel of a carbon content of more than 40 points.

ANNEALING IN BONE

Steel and cast iron may both be annealed in granulated bone. Pack the work the same as for
case-hardening except that it is not necessary to keep the pieces away from each other. Pack
with bone that has been used until it is nearly white. Heat as hot as necessary for the steel
and let the furnace cool down. If the boxes are removed from furnace while still warm, cover
boxes and all in warm ashes or sand, air slaked lime or old, burned bone to retain heat as
long as possible. Do not remove work from boxes until cold.

ANNEALING OF RIFLE COMPONENTS AT SPRINGFIELD ARMORY

In general, all forgings of the components of the arms manufactured at the Armory and all forgings
for other ordnance establishments are packed in charcoal, lime or suitable material and annealed
before being transferred from the forge shop.

Except in special cases, all annealing will be done in annealing pots of appropriate size.
One fire end of a thermo-couple is inserted in the center of the annealing pot nearest the
middle of the furnace and another in the furnace outside of but near the annealing pots.

The temperatures used in annealing carbon steel components of the various classes used at the
Armory vary from 800°C. To 880°C. or 1,475 to 1,615°F.

The fuel is shut off from the annealing furnace gradually as the temperature of the pot approaches
the prescribed annealing temperature so as to prevent heating beyond that temperature.

The forgings of the rifle barrel and the pistol barrel are exceptions to the above general
rule. These forgings will be packed in lime and allowed to cool slowly from the residual heat
after forging.

CHAPTER VII

CASE-HARDENING OR SURFACE-CARBURIZING

Carburizing, commonly called case-hardening, is the art of producing a high-carbon surface,
or case, upon a low carbon steel article. Wrenches, locomotive link motions, gun mechanisms,
balls and ball races, automobile gears and many other devices are thereby given a high-carbon
case capable of assuming extreme hardness, while the interior body of metal, the core, remains
soft and tough.

The simplest method is to heat the piece to be hardened to a bright red, dip it in cyanide
of potassium (or cover it by sprinkling the cyanide over it), keep it hot until the melted
cyanide covers it thoroughly, and quench in water. Carbon and nitrogen enter the outer skin
of the steel and harden this skin but leave the center soft. The hard surface or "case" varies
in thickness according to the size of the piece, the materials used and the length of time
which the piece remains at the carburizing temperature. Cyanide case-hardening is used only
where a light or thin skin is sufficient. It gives a thickness of about 0.002 in.

In some cases of cyanide carburizing, the piece is heated in cyanide to the desired temperature
and then quenched. For a thicker case the steel is packed in carbon materials of various kinds
such as burnt leather scraps, charcoal, granulated bone or some of the many carbonizing compounds.

Machined or forged steel parts are packed with case-hardening material in metal boxes and subjected
to a red heat. Under such conditions, carbon is absorbed by the steel surfaces, and a carburized
case is produced capable of responding to ordinary hardening and tempering operations, the
core meanwhile retaining its original softness and toughness.

Such case-hardened parts are stronger, cheaper, and more serviceable than similar parts made
of tool steel. The tough core resists breakage by shock. The hardened case resists wear from
friction. The low cost of material, the ease of manufacture, and the lessened breakage in quenching
all serve to promote cheap production.

For successful carburizing, the following points should be carefully observed:

The utmost care should be used in the selection of pots for carburizing; they should be as
free as possible from both scaling and warping. These two requirements eliminate the cast iron
pot, although many are used, thus leaving us to select from malleable castings, wrought iron,
cast steel, and special alloys, such as nichrome or silchrome. If first cost is not important,
it will prove cheaper in the end to use pots of some special alloy.

The pots should be standardized to suit the product. Pots should be made as small as possible
in width, and space gained by increasing the height; for it takes about 1-1/2 hr. to heat the
average small pot of 4 in. in width, between 3 and 4 hr. to heat to the center of an 8-in.
box, and 5 to 6 hr. to heat to the center of a 12-in. box; and the longer the time required
to heat to the center, the more uneven the carburizing.

The work is packed in the box surrounded by materials which will give up carbon when heated.
It must be packed so that each piece is separate from the others and does not touch the box,
with a sufficient amount of carburizing material surrounding each. Figures 27 to 31 show the
kind of boxes used and the way the work should be packed. Figure 31 shows a later type of box
in which the edges can be easily luted. Figure 30 shows test wires broken periodically to determine
the depth of case. Figure 28 shows the minimum clearance which should be used in packing and
Fig. 29 the way in which the outer pieces receive the heat first and likewise take up the carbon
before those in the center. This is why a slow, soaking heat is necessary in handling large
quantities of work, so as to allow the heat and carbon to soak in equally.

While it has been claimed that iron below its critical temperature will absorb some carbon,
Giolitti has shown that this absorption is very slow. In order to produce quick and intense
carburization the iron should preferably be above its upper critical temperature or 1,600°F.,--therefore
the carbon absorbed immediately goes into austenite, or solid solution. It is also certain
that the higher the temperature the quicker will carbon be absorbed, and the deeper it will
penetrate into the steel, that is, the deeper the "case." At Sheffield, England, where wrought
iron is packed in charcoal and heated for days to convert it into "blister steel," the temperatures
are from 1,750 to 1,830°F. Charcoal by itself carburizes slowly, consequently commercial compounds
also contain certain "energizers" which give rapid penetration at lower temperatures.

The most important thing in carburizing is the human element. Most careful vigilance should
be kept when packing and unpacking, and the operator should be instructed in the necessity
for clean compound free from scale, moisture, fire clay, sand, floor sweepings, etc. From just
such causes, many a good carburizer has been unjustly condemned. It is essential with most
carburizers to use about 25 to 50 per cent of used material, in order to prevent undue shrinking
during heating; therefore the necessity of properly screening used material and carefully inspecting
it for foreign substances before it is used again. It is right here that the greatest carelessness
is generally encountered.

Don't pack the work to be carburized too closely; leave at least 1 in. from the bottom, 3/4
in. from the sides, and 1 in. from the top of pots, and for a 6-hr. run, have the pieces at
least 1/2 in. apart. This gives the heat a chance to thoroughly permeate the pot, and the carburizing
material a chance to shrink without allowing carburized pieces to touch and cause soft spots.

Good case-hardening pots and annealing tubes can be made from the desired size of wrought iron
pipe. The ends are capped or welded, and a slot is cut in the side of the pot, equal to one
quarter of its circumference, and about 7/8 of its length. Another piece of the same diameter
pipe cut lengthwise into thirds forms a cover for this pot. We then have a cheap, substantial
pot, non-warping, with a minimum tendency to scale, but the pot is difficult to seal tightly.
This idea is especially adaptable when long, narrow pots are desired.

When pots are packed and the carburizer thoroughly tamped down, the covers of the pot are put
on and sealed with fire clay which has a little salt mixed into it. The more perfect the seal
the more we can get out of the carburizer. The rates of penetration depend on temperature and
the presence of proper gas in the required volume. Any pressure we can cause will, of course,
have a tendency to increase the rate of penetration.

If you have a wide furnace, do not load it full at one time. Put one-half your load in first,
in the center of the furnace, and heat until pots show a low red, about 1,325 to 1,350°F. Then
fill the furnace by putting the cold pots on the outside or, the section nearest the source
of heat. This will give the work in the slowest portion of the furnace a chance to come to
heat at the same time as the pots that are nearest the sources of heat.

To obtain an even heating of the pots and lessen their tendency to warp and scale, and to cause
the contents of the furnace to heat up evenly, we should use a reducing fire and fill the heating
chamber with flame. This can be accomplished by partially closing the waste gas vents and reducing
slightly the amount of air used by the burners. A short flame will then be noticed issuing
from the partially closed vents. Thus, while maintaining the temperature of the heating chamber,
we will have a lower temperature in the combustion chamber, which will naturally increase its
longevity.

Sometimes it is advisable to cool the work in the pots. This saves compound, and causes a more
gradual diffusion of the carbon between the case and the core, and is very desirable condition,
inasmuch as abrupt cases are inclined to chip out.

The most satisfactory steel to carburize contains between 0.10 and 0.20 per cent carbon, less
than 0.35 per cent manganese, less than 0.04 per cent phosphorus and sulphur, and low silicon.
But steel of this composition does not seem to satisfy our progressive engineers, and many
alloy steels are now on the market, these, although more or less difficult to machine, give
when carburized the various qualities demanded, such as a very hard case, very tough core,
or very hard case and tough core. However, the additional elements also have a great effect
both on the rate of penetration during the carburizing operation, and on the final treatment,
consequently such alloy steels require very careful supervision during the entire heat treating
operations.

RATE OF ABSORPTION

According to Guillet, the absorption of carbon is favored by those special elements which exist
as double carbides in steel. For example, manganese exists as manganese carbide in combination
with the iron carbide. The elements that favor the absorption of carbon are: manganese, tungsten,
chromium and molybdenum those opposing it, nickel, silicon, and aluminum. Guillet has worked
out the effect of the different elements on the rate of penetration in comparison with steel
that absorbed carbon at a given temperature, at an average rate of 0.035 in. per hour.

His tables show that the following elements require an increased time of exposure to the carburizing
material in order to obtain the same depth of penetration as with simple steel:

   When steel contains    Increased time of exposure
  2.0 per cent nickel            28 per cent
  7.0 per cent nickel            30 per cent
  1.0 per cent titanium          12 per cent
  2.0 per cent titanium          28 per cent
  0.5 per cent silicon           50 per cent
  1.0 per cent silicon           80 per cent
  2.0 per cent silicon          122 per cent
  5.0 per cent silicon         No penetration
  1.0 per cent aluminum         122 per cent
  2.0 per cent aluminum         350 per cent

The following elements seem to assist the rate of penetration of carbon, and the carburizing
time may therefore be reduced as follows:

   When steel contains      Decreased time of exposure
  0.5 per cent manganese           18 per cent
  1.0 per cent manganese           25 per cent
  1.0 per cent chromium            10 per cent
  2.0 per cent chromium            18 per cent
  0.5 per cent tungsten             0
  1.0 per cent tungsten             0
  2.0 per cent tungsten            25 per cent
  1.0 per cent molybdenum           0
  2.0 per cent molybdenum          18 per cent

The temperature at which carburization is accomplished is a very important factor. Hence the
necessity for a reliable pyrometer, located so as to give the temperature just below the tops
of the pots. It must be remembered, however, that the pyrometer gives the temperature of only
one spot, and is therefore only an aid to the operator, who must use his eyes for successful
results.

The carbon content of the case generally is governed by the temperature of the carburization.
It generally proves advisable to have the case contain between 0.90 per cent and 1.10 carbon;
more carbon than this gives rise to excess free cementite or carbide of iron, which is detrimental,
causing the case to be brittle and apt to chip.

T. G. Selleck gives a very useful table of temperatures and the relative carbon contents of
the case of steels carburized between 4 and 6 hrs. using a good charcoal carburizer. This data
is as follows:

   TABLE 15.--CARBON CONTENT OBTAINED AT VARIOUS TEMPERATURES

  At 1,500°F., the surface carbon content will be 0.90 per cent
  At 1,600°F., the surface carbon content will be 1.00 per cent
  At 1,650°F., the surface carbon content will be 1.10 per cent
  At 1,700°F., the surface carbon content will be 1.25 per cent
  At 1,750°F., the surface carbon content will be 1.40 per cent
  At 1,800°F., the surface carbon content will be 1.75 per cent

To this very valuable table, it seems best to add the following data, which we have used for
a number of years. We do not know the name of its author, but it has proved very valuable,
and seems to complete the above information. The table is self-explanatory, giving depth of
penetration of the carbon of the case at different temperatures for different lengths of time:

 ---------------------------------------------------------
                            |         Temperature
        Penetration         |-----------------------------
                            |  1,550  |  1,650  |  1,800
 ---------------------------|---------|---------|---------
  Penetration after 1/2 hr. |  0.008  |  0.012  |  0.030
  Penetration after 1 hr.   |  0.018  |  0.026  |  0.045
  Penetration after 2 hr.   |  0.035  |  0.048  |  0.060
  Penetration after 3 hr.   |  0.045  |  0.055  |  0.075
  Penetration after 4 hr.   |  0.052  |  0.061  |  0.092
  Penetration after 6 hr.   |  0.056  |  0.075  |  0.110
  Penetration after 8 hr.   |  0.062  |  0.083  |  0.130
 ---------------------------------------------------------

From the tables given, we may calculate with a fair degree of certainty the amount of carbon
in the case, and its penetration. These figures vary widely with different carburizers, and
as pointed out immediately above, with different alloy steels.

CARBURIZING MATERIAL

The simplest carburizing substance is charcoal. It is also the slowest, but is often used mixed
with something that will evolve large volumes of carbon monoxide or hydrocarbon gas on being
heated. A great variety of materials is used, a few of them being charcoal (both wood and bone),
charred leather, crushed bone, horn, mixtures of charcoal and barium carbonate, coke and heavy
oils, coke treated with alkaline carbonates, peat, charcoal mixed with common salt, saltpeter,
resin, flour, potassium bichromate, vegetable fibre, limestone, various seed husks, etc. In
general, it is well to avoid complex mixtures.

H. L. Heathcote, on analyzing seventeen different carburizers, found that they contained the
following ingredients:

                          Per cent
  Moisture             2.68 to 26.17
  Oil                  0.17 to 20.76
  Carbon (organic)     6.70 to 54.19
  Calcium phosphate    0.32 to 74.75
  Calcium carbonate    1.20 to 11.57
  Barium carbonate      nil to 42.00
  Zinc oxide            nil to 14.50
  Silica                nil to  8.14
  Sulphates (SO3)     trace to  3.45
  Sodium chloride       nil to  7.88
  Sodium carbonate      nil to 40.00
  Sulphides (S)         nil to  2.80

Carburizing mixtures, though bought by weight, are used by volume, and the weight per cubic
foot is a big factor in making a selection. A good mixture should be porous, so that the evolved
gases, which should be generated at the proper temperature, may move freely around the steel
objects being carburized; should be a good conductor of heat; should possess minimum shrinkage
when used; and should be capable of being tamped down.

Many "secret mixtures" are sold, falsely claimed to be able to convert inferior metal into
crucible tool steel grade. They are generally nothing more than mixtures of carbonaceous and
cyanogen compounds possessing the well-known carburizing properties of those substances.

QUENCHING

It is considered good practice to quench alloy steels from the pot, especially if the case
is of any appreciable depth. The texture of carbon steel will be weakened by the prolonged
high heat of carburizing, so that if we need a tough core, we must reheat it above its critical
range, which is about 1,600°F. for soft steel, but lower for manganese and nickel steels. Quenching
is done in either water, oil, or air, depending upon the results desired. The steel is then
very carefully reheated to refine the case, the temperature varying from 1,350 to 1,450°F.,
depending on whether the material is an alloy or a simple steel, and quenched in either water
or oil.

There are many possibilities yet to be developed with the carburizing of alloy steels, which
can produce a very tough, tenacious austenitic case which becomes hard on cooling in air, and
still retains a soft, pearlitic core. An austenitic case is not necessarily file hard, but
has a very great resistance to abrasive wear.

The more carbon a steel has to begin with the more slowly will it absorb carbon and the lower
the temperature required. Low-carbon steel of from 15 to 20 points is generally used and the
carbon brought up to 80 or 85 points. Tool steels may be carbonized as high as 250 points.

In addition to the carburizing materials given, a mixture of 40 per cent of barium carbonate
and 60 per cent charcoal gives much faster penetration than charcoal, bone or leather. The
penetration of this mixture on ordinary low-carbon steel is shown in Fig. 32, over a range
of from 2 to 12 hr.

EFFECT OF DIFFERENT CARBURIZING MATERIAL

Each of these different packing materials has a different effect upon the work in which it
is heated. Charcoal by itself will give a rather light case. Mixed with raw bone it will carburize
more rapidly, and still more so if mixed with burnt bone. Raw bone and burnt bone, as may be
inferred, are both quicker carbonizers than charcoal, but raw bone must never be used where
the breakage of hardened edges is to be avoided, as it contains phosphorus and tends to make
the piece brittle. Charred leather mixed with charcoal is a still faster material, and horns
and hoofs exceed even this in speed; but these two compounds are restricted by their cost to
use with high-grade articles, usually of tool or high-carbon steel, that are to be hardened
locally--that is, "pack-hardened." Cyanide of potassium or prussiate of potash are also included
in the list of carbonizing materials; but outside of carburizing by dipping into melted baths
of this material, their use is largely confined to local hardening of small surfaces, such
as holes in dies and the like.

Dr. Federico Giolitti has proven that when carbonizing with charcoal, or charcoal plus barium
carbonate, the active agent which introduces carbon into the steel is a gas, carbon monoxide
(CO), derived by combustion of the charcoal in the air trapped in the box, or by decomposition
of the carbonate. This gas diffuses in and out of the hot steel, transporting carbon from the
charcoal to the outer portions of the metal:

If energizers like tar, peat, and vegetable fiber are used, they produce hydrocarbon gases
on being heated--gases principally composed of hydrogen and carbon. These gases are unstable
in the presence of hot iron: it seems to decompose them and sooty carbon is deposited on the
surface of the metal. This diffuses into the metal a little, but it acts principally by being
a ready source of carbon, highly active and waiting to be carried into the metal by the carbon
monoxide--which as before, is the principal transfer agent.

Animal refuse when used to speed up the action of clean charcoal acts somewhat in the same
manner, but in addition the gases given off by the hot substance contain nitrogen compounds.
Nitrogen and cyanides (compounds of carbon and nitrogen) have long been known to give a very
hard thin case very rapidly. It has been discovered only recently that this is due to the steel
absorbing nitrogen as well as carbon, and that nitrogen hardens steel and makes it brittle
just like carbon does. In fact it is very difficult to distinguish between these two hardening
agents when examining a carburized steel under the microscope.

One of the advantages of hardening by carburizing is the fact that you can arrange to leave
part of the work soft and thus retain the toughness and strength of the original material.
Figures 33 to 37 show ways of doing this. The inside of the cup in Fig. 34 is locally hardened,
as illustrated in Fig. 34, "spent" or used bone being packed around the surfaces that are to
be left soft, while cyanide of potassium is put around those which are desired hard. The threads
of the nut in Fig. 35 are kept soft by carburizing the nut while upon a stud. The profile gage,
Fig. 36, is made of high-carbon steel and is hardened on the inside by packing with charred
leather, but kept soft on the outside by surrounding it with fireclay. The rivet stud shown
in Fig. 37 is carburized while of its full diameter and then turned down to the size of the
rivet end, thus cutting away the carburized surface.

After packing the work carefully in the boxes the lids are sealed or luted with fireclay to
keep out any gases from the fire. The size of box should be proportioned to the work. The box
should not be too large especially for light work that is run on a short heat. If it can be
just large enough to allow the proper amount of material around it, the work is apt to be more
satisfactory in every way.

Pieces of this kind are of course not quenched and hardened in the carburizing heat, but are
left in the box to cool, just as in box annealing, being reheated and quenched as a second
operation. In fact, this is a good scheme to use for the majority of carburizing work of small
and moderate size. Material is on the market with which one side of the steel can be treated;
or copper-plating one side of it will answer the same purpose and prevent that side becoming
carburized.

QUENCHING THE WORK

In some operations case-hardened work is quenched from the box by dumping the whole contents
into the quenching tank. It is common practice to leave a sieve or wire basket to catch the
work, allowing the carburizing material to fall to the bottom of the tank where it can be recovered
later and used again as a part of a new mixture. For best results, however, the steel is allowed
to cool down slowly in the box after which it is removed and hardened by heating and quenching
the same as carbon steel of the same grade. It has absorbed sufficient carbon so that, in the
outer portions at least, it is a high-carbon steel.

THE QUENCHING TANK

The quenching tank is an important feature of apparatus in case-hardening--possibly more so
than in ordinary tempering. One reason for this is because of the large quantities of pieces
usually dumped into the tank at a time. One cannot take time to separate the articles themselves
from the case-hardening mixture, and the whole content of the box is droped into the bath in
short order, as exposure to air of the heated work is fatal to results. Unless it is split
up, it is likely to go to the bottom as a solid mass, in which case very few of the pieces
are properly hardened.

A combination cooling tank is shown in Fig. 38. Water inlet and outlet pipes are shown and
also a drain plug that enables the tank to be emptied when it is desired to clean out the spent
carburizing material from the bottom. A wire-bottomed tray, framed with angle iron, is arranged
to slide into this tank from the top and rests upon angle irons screwed to the tank sides.
Its function is to catch the pieces and prevent them from settling to the tank bottom, and
it also makes it easy to remove a batch of work. A bottomless box of sheet steel is shown at
C. This fits into the wire-bottomed tray and has a number of rods or wires running across it,
their purpose being to break up the mass of material as it comes from the carbonizing box.

Below the wire-bottomed tray is a perforated cross-pipe that is connected with a compressed-air
line. This is used when case-hardening for colors. The shop that has no air compressor may
rig up a satisfactory equivalent in the shape of a low-pressure hand-operated air pump and
a receiver tank, for it is not necessary to use high-pressure air for this purpose. When colors
are desired on case-hardened work, the treatment in quenching is exactly the same as that previously
described except that air is pumped through this pipe and keeps the water agitated. The addition
of a slight amount of powdered cyanide of potassium to the packing material used for carburizing
will produce stronger colors, and where this is the sole object, it is best to maintain the
box at a dull-red heat.

The old way of case-hardening was to dump the contents of the box at the end of the carburizing
heat. Later study in the structure of steel thus treated has caused a change in this procedure,
the use of automobiles and alloy steels probably hastening this result. The diagrams reproduced
in Fig. 39 show why the heat treatment of case-hardened work is necessary. Starting at A with
a close-grained and tough stock, such as ordinary machinery steel containing from 15 to 20
points of carbon, if such work is quenched on a carbonizing heat the result will be as shown
at B. This gives a core that is coarse-grained and brittle and an outer case that is fine-grained
and hard, but is likely to flake off, owing to the great difference in structure between it
and the core. Reheating this work beyond the critical temperature of the core refines this
core, closes the grain and makes it tough, but leaves the case very brittle; in fact, more
so than it was before.

REFINING THE GRAIN

This is remedied by reheating the piece to a temperature slightly above the critical temperature
of the case, this temperature corresponding ordinarily to that of steel having a carbon content
of 85 points, When this is again quenched, the temperature, which has not been high enough
to disturb the refined core, will have closed the grain of the case and toughened it. So, instead
of but one heat and one quenching for this class of work, we have three of each, although it
is quite possible and often profitable to omit the quenching after carburizing and allow the
piece or pieces and the case-carburizing box to cool together, as in annealing. Sometimes another
heat treatment is added to the foregoing, for the purpose of letting down the hardness of the
case and giving it additional toughness by heating to a temperature between 300° and 500°.
Usually this is done in an oil bath. After this the piece is allowed to cool.

It is possible to harden the surface of tool steel extremely hard and yet leave its inner core
soft and tough for strength, by a process similar to case-hardening and known as "pack-hardening."
It consists in using tool steel of carbon contents ranging from 60 to 80 points, packing this
in a box with charred leather mixed with wood charcoal and heating at a low-red heat for 2
or 3 hr., thus raising the carbon content of the exterior of the piece. The article when quenched
in an oil bath will have an extremely hard exterior and tough core. It is a good scheme for
tools that must be hard and yet strong enough to stand abuse. Raw bone is never used as a packing
for this class of work, as it makes the cutting edges brittle.

CASE-HARDENING TREATMENTS FOR VARIOUS STEELS

Plain water, salt water and linseed oil are the three most common quenching materials for case-hardening.
Water is used for ordinary work, salt water for work which must be extremely hard on the surface,
and oil for work in which toughness is the main consideration. The higher the carbon of the
case, the less sudden need the quenching action take hold of the piece; in fact, experience
in case-hardening work gives a great many combinations of quenching baths of these three materials,
depending on their temperatures. Thin work, highly carbonized, which would fly to pieces under
the slightest blow if quenched in water or brine, is made strong and tough by properly quenching
in slightly heated oil. It is impossible to give any rules for the temperature of this work,
so much depending on the size and design of the piece; but it is not a difficult matter to
try three or four pieces by different methods and determine what is needed for best results.

The alloy steels are all susceptible of case-hardening treatment; in fact, this is one of the
most important heat treatments for such steels in the automobile industry. Nickel steel carburizes
more slowly than common steel, the nickel seeming to have the effect of slowing down the rate
of penetration. There is no cloud without its silver lining, however, and to offset this retardation,
a single treatment is often sufficient for nickel steel; for the core is not coarsened as much
as low-carbon machinery steel and thus ordinary work may be quenched on the carburizing heat.
Steel containing from 3 to 3.5 per cent of nickel is carburized between 1,650 and 1,750°F.
Nickel steel containing less than 25 points of carbon, with this same percentage of nickel,
may be slightly hardened by cooling in air instead of quenching.

Chrome-nickel steel may be case-hardened similarly to the method just described for nickel
steel, but double treatment gives better results and is used for high-grade work. The carburizing
temperature is the same, between 1,650 and 1,750°F., the second treatment consisting of reheating
to 1,400° and then quenching in boiling salt water, which gives a hard surface and at the same
time prevents distortion of the piece. The core of chrome-nickel case-hardened steel, like
that of nickel steel, is not coarsened excessively by the first heat treatment, and therefore
a single heating and quenching will suffice.

CARBURIZING BY GAS

The process of carburizing by gas, briefly mentioned on page 88, consists of having a slowly
revolving, properly heated, cylindrical retort into which illuminating gas (a mixture of various
hydrocarbons) is continuously injected under pressure. The spent gases are vented to insure
the greatest speed in carbonizing. The work is constantly and uniformly exposed to a clean
carbonizing atmosphere instead of partially spent carbonaceous solids which may give off very
complex compounds of phosphorus, sulphur, carbon and nitrogen.

Originally this process was thought to require a gas generator but it has been discovered that
city gas works all right. The gas consists of vapors derived from petroleum or bituminous coal.
Sometimes the gas supply is diluted by air, to reduce the speed of carburization and increase
the depth.

PREVENTING CARBURIZING BY COPPER-PLATING

Copper-plating has been found effective and must have a thickness of 0.0005 in. Less than this
does not give a continuous coating. The plating bath used has a temperature of 170°F. A voltage
of 4.1 is to be maintained across the terminals. Regions which are to be hardened can be kept
free from copper by coating them with paraffin before they enter the plating tank. The operation
is as follows:

Operation
   No.             Contents of bath                   Purpose
    1      Gasoline                           To remove grease
    2      Sawdust                            To dry
    3      Warm potassium hydroxide solution  To remove grease and dirt
    4      Warm water                         To wash
    5      Warm sulphuric acid solution       To acid clean
    6      Warm water                         To wash
    7      Cold water                         Additional wash
    8      Cold potassium cyanide solution    Cleanser
    9      Cold water                         To wash
   10      Electric cleaner, warm sodium      Cleanser to give good
             hydroxide case-iron anode          plating surface
   11      Copper plating bath of copper      Plating bath
             sulphate and potassium cyanide
             solution warm

There are also other methods of preventing case-hardening, one being to paint the surface with
a special compound prepared for this purpose. In some cases a coating of plastic asbestos is
used while in others thin sheet asbestos is wired around the part to be kept soft.

PREPARING PARTS FOR LOCAL CASE-HARDENING

At the works of the Dayton Engineering Laboratories Company, Dayton, Ohio, they have a large
quantity of small shafts, Fig. 40, that are to be case-hardened at A while the ends B and C
are to be left soft. Formerly, the part A was brush-coated with melted paraffin but, as there
were many shafts, this was tedious and great care was necessary to avoid getting paraffin where
it was not wanted.

To insure uniform coating the device shown in Fig. 41 was made. Melted paraffin is poured in
the well A and kept liquid by setting the device on a hot plate, the paraffin being kept high
enough to touch the bottoms of the rollers. The shaft to be coated is laid between the rollers
with one end against the gage B, when a turn or two of the crank C will cause it to be evenly
coated.

THE PENETRATION OF CARBON

Carburized mild steel is used to a great extent in the manufacture of automobile and other
parts which are likely to be subjected to rough usage. The strength and ability to withstand
hard knocks depend to a very considerable degree on the thoroughness with which the carburizing
process is conducted.

Many automobile manufacturers have at one time or another passed through a period of unfortunate
breakages, or have found that for a certain period the parts turned out of their hardening
shops were not sufficiently hard to enable the rubbing surfaces to stand up against the pressure
to which they were subjected.

So many factors govern the success of hardening that often this succession of bad work has
been actually overcome without those interested realizing what was the weak point in their
system of treatment. As the question is one that can create a bad reputation for the product
of any firm it is well to study the influential factors minutely.

INTRODUCTION OF CARBON

The matter to which these notes are primarily directed is the introduction of carbon into the
case of the article to be hardened. In the first place the chances of success are increased
by selecting as few brands of steel as practicable to cover the requirements of each component
of the mechanism. The hardener is then able to become accustomed to the characteristics of
that particular material, and after determining the most suitable treatment for it no further
experimenting beyond the usual check-test pieces is necessary.

Although a certain make of material may vary in composition from time to time the products
of a manufacturer of good steel can be generally relied upon, and it is better to deal directly
with him than with others.

In most cases the case-hardening steels can be chosen from the following: (1) Case-hardening
mild steel of 0.20 per cent carbon; (2) case-hardening 3-1/2 per cent nickel steel; (3) case-hardening
nickel-chromium steel; (4) case-hardening chromium vanadium. After having chosen a suitable
steel it is best to have the sample analyzed by reliable chemists and also to have test pieces
machined and pulled.

To prepare samples for analysis place a sheet of paper on the table of a drilling machine,
and with a 3/8-in. diameter drill, machine a few holes about 3/8 in. deep in various parts
of the sample bar, collecting about 3 oz. of fine drillings free from dust. This can be placed
in a bottle and dispatched to the laboratory with instructions to search for carbon, silicon,
manganese, sulphur, phosphorus and alloys. The results of the different tests should be carefully
tabulated, and as there would most probably be some variation an average should be made as
a fair basis of each element present, and the following tables may be used with confidence
when deciding if the material is reliable enough to be used.

TABLE 16.--CASE-HARDENING MILD STEEL OF 0.20 PER CENT CARBON

  Carbon          0.15 to 0.25 per cent
  Silicon        Not over 0.20 per cent
  Manganese       0.30 to 0.60 per cent
  Sulphur        Not over 0.04 per cent
  Phosphorus     Not over 0.04 per cent

A tension test should register at least 60,000 lb. per square inch.

USING ILLUMINATING GAS

The choice of a carburizing furnace depends greatly on the facilities available in the locality
where the shop is situated and the nature and quantity of the work to be done. The furnaces
can be heated with producer gas in most cases, but when space is of value illuminating gas
from a separate source of supply has some compensations. When the latter is used it is well
to install a governor if the pressure is likely to fluctuate, particularly where the shop is
at a high altitude or at a long distance from the gas supply.

Many furnaces are coal-fired, and although greater care is required in maintaining a uniform
temperature good results have been obtained. The use of electricity as a means of reaching
the requisite temperature is receiving some attention, and no doubt it would make the control
of temperature comparatively simple. However, the cost when applied to large quantities of
work will, for the present at least, prevent this method from becoming popular. It is believed
that the results obtainable \with the electric furnace would surpass any others; but the apparatus
is expensive, and unless handled with intelligence would not last long.

The most elementary medium of carburization is pure carbon, but the rate of carburization induced
by this material is very low, and other components are necessary to accelerate the process.
Many mixtures have been marketed, each possessing its individual merits, and as the prices
vary considerably it is difficult to decide which is the most advantageous.

Absorption from actual contact with solid carbon is decidedly slow, and it is necessary to
employ a compound from which gases are liberated, and the steel will absorb the carbon from
the gases much more readily.

Both bone and leather charcoal give off more carburizing gases than wood charcoal, and although
the high sulphur content of the leather is objectionable as being injurious to the steel, as
also is the high phosphorus content of the bone charcoal, they are both preferable to the wood
charcoal.

By mixing bone charcoal with barium carbonate in the proportions of 60 per cent of the former
to 40 per cent of the latter a very reliable compound is obtained.

The temperature to which this compound is subjected causes the liberation of carbon monoxide
when in contact with hot charcoal.

Many more elaborate explanations may be given of the actions and reactions taking place, but
the above is a satisfactory guide to indicate that it is not the actual compound which causes
carburization, but the gases released from the compound.

Until the temperature of the muffle reaches about 1,300°F. carburization does not take place
to any useful extent, and consequently it is advisable to avoid the use of any compound from
which the carburizing gases are liberated much before that temperature is reached. In the case
of steel containing nickel slightly higher temperatures may be used and are really necessary
if the same rate of carbon penetration is to be obtained, as the presence of nickel resists
the penetration.

At higher temperatures the rate of penetration is higher, but not exactly in proportion to
the temperature, and the rate is also influenced by the nature of the material and the efficiency
of the compound employed.

The so-called saturation point of mild steel is reached when the case contains 0.90 per cent
of carbon, but this amount is frequently exceeded. Should it be required to ascertain the amount
of carbon in a sample at varying depths below the skin this can be done by turning off a small
amount after carburizing and analyzing the turnings. This can be repeated several times, and
it will probably be found that the proportion of carbon decreases as the test piece is reduced
in diameter unless decarburization has taken place.

The chart, Fig. 42, is also a good guide.

In order to use the chart it is necessary to harden the sample we desire to test as we would
harden a piece of tool steel, and then test by scleroscope. By locating on the chart the point
on the horizontal axis which represents the hardness of the sample the curve enables one to
determine the approximate amount of carbon present in the case.

Should the hardness lack uniformity the soft places can be identified by etching. To accomplish
this the sample should be polished after quenching and then washed with a weak solution of
nitric acid in alcohol, whereupon the harder points will show up darker than the softer areas.

The selection of suitable boxes for carburizing is worthy of a little consideration, and there
can be no doubt that in certain cases results are spoiled and considerable expense caused by
using unsuitable containers.

As far as initial expense goes cast-iron boxes are probably the most expedient, but although
they will withstand the necessary temperatures they are liable to split and crack, and when
they get out of shape there is much difficulty in straightening them.

The most suitable material in most cases is steel boiler plate 3/8 or 1/2 in. thick, which
can be made with welded joints and will last well.

The sizes of the boxes employed depend to a great extent on the nature of the work being done,
but care should be exercised to avoid putting too much in one box, as smaller ones permit the
heat to penetrate more quickly, and one test piece is sufficient to give a good indication
of what has taken place. If it should be necessary to use larger boxes it is advisable to put
in three or four test pieces in different positions to ascertain if the penetration of carbon
has been satisfactory in all parts of the box, as it is quite possible that the temperature
of the muffle is not the same at all points, and a record shown by one test piece would not
then be applicable to all the parts contained in the box. It has been found that the rate of
carbon penetration increases with the gas pressure around the articles being carburized, and
it is therefore necessary to be careful in sealing up the boxes after packing. When the articles
are placed within and each entirely surrounded by compound so that the compound reaches to
within 1 in. of the top of the box a layer of clay should be run around the inside of the box
on top of the compound. The lid, which should be a good fit in the box, is then to be pressed
on top of this, and another layer of clay run just below the rim of the box on top of the cover.

A SATISFACTORY LUTING MIXTURE

A mixture of fireclay and sand will be found very satisfactory for closing up the boxes, and
by observing the appearance of the work when taken out we can gage the suitability of the methods
employed, for unless the boxes are carefully sealed the work is generally covered with dark
scales, while if properly done the articles will be of a light gray.

By observing the above recommendations reliable results can be obtained, and we can expect
uniform results after quenching.

GAS CONSUMPTION FOR CARBURIZING

Although the advantages offered by the gas-fired furnace for carburizing have been generally
recognized in the past from points of view as close temperature regulation, decreased attendance,
and greater convenience, very little information has been published regarding the consumption
of gas for this process. It has therefore been a matter of great difficulty to obtain authentic
information upon this point, either from makers or users of such furnaces.

In view of this, the details of actual consumption of gas on a regular customer's order job
will be of interest. The "Revergen" furnace, manufactured by the Davis Furnace Company, Luton,
Bedford, England, was used on this job, and is provided with regenerators and fired with illuminating
gas at ordinary pressure, the air being introduced to the furnace at a slight pressure of 3
to 4 in. water gage. The material was charged into a cold furnace, raised to 1,652°F., and
maintained at that temperature for 8 hr. to give the necessary depth of case. The work consisted
of automobile gears packed in six boxes, the total weight being 713 lb. The required temperature
of 1,652°F. was obtained in 70 min. from lighting up, and a summary of the data is shown in
the following table:

                                           Cubic Foot      Total
                                           Per Pound     Number of
                                            of Load      Cubic Foot
  Gas to raise furnace and charge from
    cold to 1,652°F., 70 min.                1.29           925
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 1st hour      0.38           275
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 2nd hour      0.42           300
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 3rd hour      0.38           275
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 4th hour      0.42           300
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 5th hour      0.49           350
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 6th hour      0.49           350
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 7th hour      0.45           325
  Gas to maintain 1,652°F. for 8th hour      0.45           325

The overall gas consumption for this run of 9 hr. 10 min. was only 4.8 cu. ft. per pound of load.

THE CARE OF CARBURIZING COMPOUNDS

Of all the opportunities for practicing economy in the heat-treatment department, there is
none that offers greater possibilities for profitable returns than the systematic cleaning,
blending and reworking of artificial carburizers, or compounds.

The question of whether or not it is practical to take up the work depends upon the nature
of the output. If the sole product of the hardening department consists of a 1.10 carbon case
or harder, requiring a strong highly energized material of deep penetrative power such as that
used in the carburizing of ball races, hub-bearings and the like, it would be best to dispose
of the used material to some concern whose product requires a case with from 0.70 to 0.90 carbon,
but where there is a large variety of work the compound may be so handled that there will be
practically no waste.

This is accomplished with one of the most widely known artificial carburizers by giving all
the compound in the plant three distinct classifications: "New," being direct from the maker;
"half and half," being one part of new and one part first run; and "2 to 1," which consists
of two parts of old and one part new.

SEPARATING THE WORK FROM THE COMPOUND

During the pulling of the heat, the pots are dumped upon a cast-iron screen which forms a table
or apron for the furnace. Directly beneath this table is located one of the steel conveyor
carts, shown in Fig. 43, which is provided with two wheels at the rear and a dolly clevis at
the front, which allows it to be hauled away from beneath the furnace apron while filled with
red-hot compound. A steel cover is provided for each box, and the material is allowed to cool
without losing much of the evolved gases which are still being thrown off by the compound.

As this compound comes from the carburizing pots it contains bits of fireclay which represent
a part of the luting used for sealing, and there may be small parts of work or bits of fused
material in it as well. After cooling, the compound is very dusty and disagreeable to handle,
and, before it can be used again, must be sifted, cleaned and blended.

Some time ago the writer was confronted with this proposition for one of the largest consumers
of carburizing compound in the world, and the problem was handled in the following manner:
The cooled compound was dumped from the cooling cars and sprinkled with a low-grade oil which
served the dual purposes of settling the dust and adding a certain percentage of valuable hydrocarbon
to the compound. In Fig. 44 is shown the machine that was designed to do the cleaning and blending.

BLENDING THE COMPOUND

Essentially, this consists of the sturdy, power-driven separator and fanning mill which separates
the foreign matter from the compound and elevates it into a large settling basin which is formed
by the top of the steel housing that incloses the apparatus. After reaching the settling basin,
the compound falls by gravity into a power-driven rotary mixing tub which is directly beneath
the settling basin. Here the blending is done by mixing the proper amount of various grades
of material together. After blending the compound, it is ready to be stored in labeled containers
and delivered to the packing room.

It will be seen that by this simple system there is the least possible loss of energy from
the compound. The saving commences the moment the cooling cart is covered and preserves the
valuable dust which is saved by the oiling and the settling basin of the blending machine.

Then, too, there is the added convenience of the packers who have a thoroughly cleaned, dustless,
and standardized product to work with. Of course, this also tends to insure uniformity in the
case-hardening operation.

With this outfit, one man cleans and blends as much compound in one hour as he formerly did in ten.

CHAPTER VII

HEAT TREATMENT OF STEEL

Heat treatment consists in heating and cooling metal at definite rates in order to change its
physical condition. Many objects may be attained by correct heat treatment, but nothing much
can be expected unless the man who directs the operations knows what is the essential difference
in a piece of steel at room temperature and at a red heat, other than the obvious fact that
it is hot. The science of metallography has been developed in the past 25 years, and aided
by precise methods of measuring temperature, has done much to systematize the information which
we possess on metallic alloys, and steel in particular.

CRITICAL POINTS

One of the most important means of investigating the properties of pure metals and their alloys
is by an examination of their heating and cooling curves. Such curves are constructed by taking
a small piece and observing and recording the temperature of the mass at uniform intervals
of time during a uniform heating or cooling. These observations, when plotted in the form of
a curve will show whether the temperature of the mass rises or falls uniformly.

The heat which a body absorbs serves either to raise the temperature of the mass or change
its physical condition. That portion of the heat which results in an increase in temperature
of the body is called "sensible heat," inasmuch as such a gain in heat is apparent to the physical
senses of the observer. If heat were supplied to the body at a uniform rate, the temperature
would rise continuously, and if the temperature were plotted against time, a smooth rising
curve would result. Or, if sensible heat were abstracted from the body at a uniform rate, a
time-temperature curve would again be a smooth falling curve. Such a curve is called a "cooling
curve."

However, we find that when a body is melting, vaporizing, or otherwise suffering an abrupt
change in physical properties, a quantity of heat is absorbed which disappears without changing
the temperature of the body. This heat absorbed during a change of state is called "latent
heat," because it is transformed into the work necessary to change the configuration and disposition
of the molecules in the body; but it is again liberated in equal amount when the reverse change
takes place.

From these considerations it would seem that should the cooling curve be continuous and smooth,
following closely a regular course, all the heat abstracted during cooling is furnished at
the expense of a fall in temperature of the body; that is to say, it disappears as "sensible
heat." These curves, however, frequently show horizontal portions or "arrests" which denote
that at that temperature all of the heat constantly radiating is being supplied by internal
changes in the alloy itself; that is, it is being supplied by the evolution of a certain amount
of "latent heat."

In addition to the large amount of heat liberated when a metal solidifies, there are other
changes indicated by the thermal analysis of many alloys which occur after the body has become
entirely solidified. These so-called transformation points or ranges may be caused by chemical
reactions taking place within the solid, substances being precipitated from a "solid solution,"
or a sudden change in some physical property of the components, such as in magnetism, hardness,
or specific gravity.

It may be difficult to comprehend that such changes can occur in a body after it has become
entirely solidified, owing to the usual conception that the particles are then rigidly fixed.
However, this rigidity is only comparative. The molecules in the solid state have not the large
mobility they possess as a liquid, but even so, they are still moving in circumscribed orbits,
and have the power, under proper conditions, to rearrange their position or internal configuration.
In general, such rearrangement is accompanied by a sudden change in some physical property
and in the total energy of the molecule, which is evidenced by a spontaneous evolution or absorption
of latent heat.

Cooling curves of the purest iron show at least two well-defined discontinuities at temperatures
more than 1,000°F., below its freezing-point. It seems that the soft, magnetic metal so familiar
as wrought iron, and called "alpha iron" or "ferrite" by the metallurgist, becomes unstable
at about 1,400°F. and changes into the so-called "beta" modification, becoming suddenly harder,
and losing its magnetism. This state in turn persists no higher than 1,706°C., when a softer,
non-magnetic "gamma" iron is the stable modification up to the actual melting-point of the
metal. These various changes occur in electrolytic iron, and therefore cannot be attributed
to any chemical reaction or solution; they are entirely due to the existence of "allotropic
modifications" of the iron in its solid state.

Steels, or iron containing a certain amount of carbon, develop somewhat different cooling curves
from those produced by pure iron. Figure 45 shows, for instance, some data observed on a cooling
piece of 0.38 per cent carbon steel, and the curve constructed therefrom. It will be noted
that the time was noted when the needle on the pyrometer passed each dial marking. If the metal
were not changing in its physical condition, the time between each reading would be nearly
constant; in fact for a time it required about 50 sec. to cool each unit. When the dial read
about 32.5 (corresponding in this instrument to a temperature of 775°C. or 1,427°F.) the cooling
rate shortened materially, 55 sec. then 65, then 100, then 100; showing that some change inside
the metal was furnishing some of the steadily radiating heat. This temperature is the so-called
"upper critical" for this steel. Further down, the "lower critical" is shown by a large heat
evolution at 695°C. or 1,283°F.

Just the reverse effects take place upon heating, except that the temperatures shown are somewhat
higher--there seems to be a lag in the reactions taking place in the steel. This is an important
point to remember, because if it was desired to anneal a piece of 0.38 carbon steel, it is
necessary to heat it up to and beyond 1,476° F. (1,427°F. plus this lag, which may be as much
as 50°).

It may be said immediately that above the upper critical the carbon exists in the iron as a
"solid solution," called "austenite" by metallographers. That is to say, it is uniformly distributed
as atoms throughout the iron; the atoms of carbon are not present in any fixed combination,
in fact any amount of carbon from zero to 1.7 per cent can enter into solid solution above
the upper critical. However, upon cooling this steel, the carbon again enters into combination
with a definite proportion of iron (the carbide "cementite," Fe3C), and accumulates into small
crystals which can be seen under a good microscope. Formation of all the cementite has been
completed by the time the temperature has fallen to the lower critical, and below that temperature
the steel exists as a complex substance of pure iron and the iron carbide.

It is important to note that the critical points or critical range of a plain steel varies
with its carbon content. The following table gives some average figures:

  Carbon Content.  Upper Critical.  Lower Critical.
        0.00           1,706°F.         1,330°F.
        0.20           1,600°F.         1,330°F.
        0.40           1,480°F.         1,330°F.
        0.60           1,400°F.         1,330°F.
        0.80           1,350°F.         1,330°F.
        0.90           1,330°F.         1,330°F.
        1.00           1,470°F.         1,330°F.
        1.20           1,650°F.         1,330°F.
        1.40           1,830°F.         1,330°F.
        1.60           2,000°F.         1,330°F.

It is immediately noted that the critical range narrows with increasing carbon content until
all the heat seems to be liberated at one temperature in a steel of 0.90 per cent carbon. Beyond
that composition the critical range widens rapidly. Note also that the lower critical is constant
in plain carbon steels containing no alloying elements.

This steel of 0.90 carbon content is an important one. It is called "eutectoid" steel. Under
the microscope a properly polished and etched sample shows the structure to consist of thin
sheets of two different substances (Fig. 46). One of these is pure iron, and the other is pure
cementite. This structure of thin sheets has received the name "pearlite," because of its pearly
appearance under sunlight. Pearlite is a constituent found in all annealed carbon steels. Pure
iron, having no carbon, naturally would show no pearlite when examined under a microscope;
only abutting granules of iron are delicately traced. The metallographist calls this pure iron
"ferrite." As soon as a little carbon enters the alloy and a soft steel is formed, small angular
areas of pearlite appear at the boundaries of the ferrite crystals (Fig. 47). With increasing
carbon in the steel the volume of iron crystals becomes less and less, and the relative amount
of pearlite increases, until arriving at 0.90 per cent carbon, the large ferrite crystals have
been suppressed and the structure is all pearlite. Higher carbon steels show films of cementite
outlining grains of pearlite (Fig. 48).

This represents the structure of annealed, slowly cooled steels. It is possible to change the
relative sizes of the ferrite and cementite crystals by heat treatment. Large grains are associated
with brittleness. Consequently one must avoid heat treatments which produce coarse grains.

In general it may be said that the previous crystalline structure of a steel is entirely obliterated
when it passes just through the critical range. At that moment, in fact, the ferrite, cementite
or pearlite which previously existed has lost its identity by everything going into the solid
solution called austenite. If sufficient time is given, the chemical elements comprising a
good steel distribute themselves uniformly through the mass. If the steel be then cooled, the
austenite breaks up into new crystals of ferrite, cementite and pearlite; and in general if
the temperature has not gone far above the critical, and cooling is not excessively slow, a
very fine texture will result. This is called "refining" the grain; or in shop parlance "closing"
the grain. However, if the heating has gone above the critical very far, the austenite crystals
start to grow; a very short time at an extreme temperature will cause a large grain growth.
Subsequent cooling gives a coarse texture, or an arrangement of ferrite, cementite and pearlite
grains which is greatly coarsened, reflecting the condition of the austenite crystals from
which they were born.

It maybe noted in passing that the coarse crystals of cast metal cannot generally be refined
by heat treatment unless some forging or rolling has been done in the meantime. Heat treatment
alone does not seem to be able to break up the crystals of an ingot structure.

HARDENING

Steel is hardened by quenching from above the upper critical. Apparently the quick cooling
prevents the normal change back to definite and sizeable crystals of ferrite and cementite.
Hardness is associated with this suppressed change. If the change is allowed to continue by
a moderate reheating, like a tempering, the hardness decreases.

If a piece of steel could be cooled instantly, doubtless austenite could be preserved and examined.
In the ordinary practice of hardening steels, the quenching is not so drastic, and the transformation
of austenite back to ferrite and cementite is more or less completely effected, giving rise
to certain transitory forms which are known as "martensite," "troostite," "sorbite," and finally,
pearlite.

Austenite has been defined as a solid solution of cementite (Fe3C) in gamma iron. It is stable
at various temperatures dependent upon its carbon content, which may be any amount up to the
saturated solution containing 1.7 per cent. Austenite is not nearly as hard as martensite,
owing to its content of the soft gamma iron. Fig. 49 shows austenite to possess the typical
appearance of any pure, crystallized substance.

In the most quickly quenched high carbon steels, austenite commonly forms the ground mass which
is interspersed with martensite, a large field of which is illustrated in Fig. 50. Martensite
is usually considered to be a solid solution of cementite in beta iron. It represents an unstable
condition in which the metal is caught during rapid cooling. It is very hard, and is the chief
constituent of hardened high-carbon steels, and of medium-carbon nickel-steel and manganese-steel.

Troostite is of doubtful composition, but possibly is an unstable mixture of untransformed
martensite with sorbite. It contains more or less untransformed material, as it is too hard
to be composed entirely of the soft alpha modification, and it can also be tempered more or
less without changing in appearance. Its normal appearance as rounded grains is given in Fig.
51; larger patches show practically no relief in their structure, and a photograph merely shows
a dark, structureless area.

Sorbite is believed to be an early stage in the formation of pearlite, when the iron and iron
carbide originally constituting the solid solution (austenite) have had an opportunity to separate
from each other, and the iron has entirely passed into the alpha modification, but the particles
are yet too small to be distinguishable under the microscope. It also, possibly, contains some
incompletely transformed matter. Sorbite is softer and tougher than troostite, and is habitually
associated with pearlite. Its components are tending to coagulate into pearlite, and will do
so in a fairly short time at temperatures near the lower critical, which heat will furnish
the necessary molecular freedom. The normal appearance, however, is the cloudy mass shown in
Fig. 52.

Pearlite is a definite conglomerate of ferrite and cementite containing about six parts of
the former to one of the latter. When pure, it has a carbon content of about 0.95 per cent.
It represents the complete transformation of the eutectoid austenite accomplished by slow-cooling
of an iron-carbon alloy through the transformation range. (See Fig. 46.)

These observations are competent to explain annealing and toughening practice. A quickly quenched
carbon steel is mostly martensitic which, as noted, is a solid solution of beta iron and cementite,
hard and brittle. Moderate reheating or annealing changes this structure largely into troostite,
which is a partly transformed martensite, possessing much of the hardness of martensite, but
with a largely increased toughness and shock resistance. This toughness is the chief characteristic
of the next material in the transformation series, sorbite, which is merely martensite wholly
transformed into a mixture of ultramicroscopic crystals of ferrite (alpha iron) and cementite
(Fe3C).

"Tempering" or "drawing" should be restricted to mean moderate reheating, up to about 350°
C., forming troostitic steel. "Toughening" represents the practice of reheating hardened carbon
steels from 350° C. up to just below the lower critical, and forms sorbitic steel; while "annealing"
refers to a heating for grain size at or above the transformation ranges, followed by a slow
cooling. Any of these operations not only allows the transformations from austenite to pearlite
to proceed, but also relieves internal stresses in the steel.

Normalizing is a heating like annealing, followed by a moderately rapid quench.

JUDGING THE HEAT OF STEEL

While the use of a pyrometer is of course the only way to have accurate knowledge as to the
heat being used in either forging or hardening steels, a color chart will be of considerable
assistance if carefully studied. These have been prepared by several of the steel companies
as a guide, but it must be remembered that the colors and temperatures given are only approximate,
and can be nothing else.

The Magnet Test.--The critical point can also be determined by an ordinary horse-shoe magnet.
Touch the steel with a magnet during the heating and when it reaches the temperature at which
steel fails to attract the magnet, or in other words, loses its magnetism, the critical point
has been reached.

Figures 53 and 54 show how these are used in practice.

The first (Fig. 53) shows the use of a permanent horse-shoe magnet and the second (Fig. 54)
an electro-magnet consisting of an iron rod with a coil or spool magnet at the outer end. In
either case the magnet should not be allowed to become heated but should be applied quickly.

The work is heated up slowly in the furnace and the magnet applied from time to time. The steel
being heated will attract the magnet until the heat reaches the critical point. The magnet
is applied frequently and when the magnet is no longer attracted, the piece is at the lowest
temperature at which it can be hardened properly. Quenching slightly above this point will
give a tool of satisfactory hardness. The method applies only to carbon steels and will not
work for modern high-speed steels.

HEAT TREATMENT OF GEAR BLANKS

This section is based on a paper read before the American Gear Manufacturers' Association at
White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., Apr. 18, 1918.

Great advancement has been made in the heat treating and hardening of gears. In this advancement
the chemical and metallurgical laboratory have played no small part. During this time, however,
the condition of the blanks as they come to the machine shop to be machined has not received
its share of attention.

There are two distinct types of gears, both types having their champions, namely, carburized
and heat-treated. The difference between the two in the matter of steel composition is entirely
in the carbon content, the carbon never running higher than 25-point in the carburizing type,
while in the heat-treated gears the carbon is seldom lower than 35-point. The difference in
the final gear is the hardness. The carburized gear is file hard on the surface, with a soft,
tough and ductile core to withstand shock, while the heat-treated gear has a surface that can
be touched by a file with a core of the same hardness as the outer surface.

ANNEALING WORK.--With the exception of several of the higher types of alloy steels, where the
percentages of special elements run quite high, which causes a slight air-hardening action,
the carburizing steels are soft enough for machining when air cooled from any temperature,
including the finishing temperature at the hammer. This condition has led many drop-forge and
manufacturing concerns to consider annealing as an unnecessary operation and expense. In many
cases the drop forging has only been heated to a low temperature, often just until the piece
showed color, to relieve the so-called hammer strains. While this has been only a compromise
it has been better than no reheating at all, although it has not properly refined the grain,
which is necessary for good machining conditions.

Annealing is heating to a temperature slightly above the highest critical point and cooling
slowly either in the air or in the furnace. Annealing is done to accomplish two purposes: (1)
to relieve mechanical strains and (2) to soften and produce a maximum refinement of grain.

PROCESS OF CARBURIZING.--Carburizing imparts a shell of high-carbon content to a low-carbon
steel. This produces what might be termed a "dual" steel, allowing for an outer shell which
when hardened would withstand wear, and a soft ductile core to produce ductility and withstand
shock. The operation is carried out by packing the work to be carburized in boxes with a material
rich in carbon and maintaining the box so charged at a temperature in excess of the highest
critical point for a length of time to produce the desired depth of carburized zone. Generally
maintaining the temperature at 1,650 to 1,700° F. for 7 hr. will produce a carburized zone
1/32 in. deep.

Heating to a temperature slightly above the highest critical point and cooling suddenly in
some quenching medium, such as water or oil hardens the steel. This treatment produces a maximum
refinement with the maximum strength.

Drawing to a temperature below the highest critical point (the temperature being governed by
the results required) relieves the hardening strains set up by quenching, as well as the reducing
of the hardness and brittleness of hardened steel.

EFFECTS OF PROPER ANNEALING.--Proper annealing of low-carbon steels causes a complete solution
or combination to take place between the ferrite and pearlite, producing a homogeneous mass
of small grains of each, the grains of the pearlite being surrounded by grains of ferrite.
A steel of this refinement will machine to good advantage, due to the fact that the cutting
tool will at all times be in contact with metal of uniform composition.

While the alternate bands of ferrite and pearlite are microscopically sized, it has been found
that with a Gleason or Fellows gear-cutting machine that rough cutting can be traced to poorly
annealed steels, having either a pronounced banded structure or a coarse granular structure.

TEMPERATURE FOR ANNEALING.--Theoretically, annealing should be accomplished at a temperature
at just slightly above the critical point. However, in practice the temperature is raised to
a higher point in order to allow for the solution of the carbon and iron to be produced more
rapidly, as the time required to produce complete solution is reduced as the temperature increases
past the critical point.

For annealing the simpler types of low-carbon steels the following temperatures have been found
to produce uniform machining conditions on account of producing uniform fine-grain pearlite
structure:

0.15 to 0.25 per cent carbon, straight carbon steel.--Heat to 1,650°F. Hold at this temperature
until the work is uniformly heated; pull from the furnace and cool in air.

CARE IN ANNEALING.--Not only will benefits in machining be found by careful annealing of forgings
but the subsequent troubles in the hardening plant will be greatly reduced. The advantages
in the hardening start with the carburizing operation, as a steel of uniform and fine grain
size will carburize more uniformly, producing a more even hardness and less chances for soft
spots. The holes in the gears will also "close in more uniformly," not causing some gears to
require excessive grinding and others with just enough stock. Also all strains will have been
removed from the forging, eliminating to a great extent distortion and the noisy gears which
are the result.

With the steels used, for the heat-treated gears, always of a higher carbon content, treatment
after forging is necessary for machining, as it would be impossible to get the required production
from untreated forgings, especially in the alloy steels. The treatment is more delicate, due
to the higher percentage of carbon and the natural increase in cementite together with complex
carbides which are present in some of the higher types of alloys.

Where poor machining conditions in heat-treated steels are present they are generally due to
incomplete solution of cementite rather than bands of free ferrite, as in the case of case-hardening
steels. This segregation of carbon, as it is sometimes referred to, causes hard spots which,
in the forming of the tooth, cause the cutter to ride over the hard metal, producing high spots
on the face of the tooth, which are as detrimental to satisfactory gear cutting as the drops
or low spots produced on the face of the teeth when the pearlite is coarse-grained or in a
banded condition.

In the simpler carburized steels it is not necessary to test the forgings for hardness after
annealing, but with the high percentages of alloys in the carburizing steels and the heat-treated
steels a hardness test is essential.

To obtain the best results in machining, the microstructure of the metal should be determined
and a hardness range set that covers the variations in structure that produce good machining
results. By careful control of the heat-treating operation and with the aid of the Brinell
hardness tester and the microscope it is possible to continually give forgings that will machine
uniformly and be soft enough to give desired production. The following gives a few of the hardness
numerals on steel used in gear manufacture that produce good machining qualities:

0.20 per cent carbon, 3 per cent nickel, 1-1/4; per cent chromium--Brinell 156 to 170.

0.50 per cent carbon, 3 per cent nickel, 1 per cent chromium--Brinell 179 to 187.

0.50 per cent carbon chrome-vanadium--Brinell 170 to 179.

THE INFLUENCE OF SIZE

The size of the piece influences the physical properties obtained in steel by heat treatment.
This has been worked out by E. J. Janitzky, metallurgical engineer of the Illinois Steel Company,
as follows:

"With an increase in the mass of steel there is a corresponding decrease in both the minimum
surface hardness and depth hardness, when quenched from the same temperature, under identical
conditions of the quenching medium. In other words, the physical properties obtained are a
function of the surface of the metal quenched for a given mass of steel. Keeping this primary
assumption in mind, it is possible to predict what physical properties may be developed in
heat treating by calculating the surface per unit mass for different shapes and sizes. It may
be pointed out that the figures and chart that follow are not results of actual tests, but
are derived by calculation. They indicate the mathematical relation, which, based on the fact
that the physical properties of steel are determined not alone by the rate which heat is lost
per unit of surface, but by the rate which heat is lost per unit of weight in relation to the
surface exposed for that unit. The unit of weight has for the different shaped bodies and their
sizes a certain surface which determines their physical properties.

"For example, the surface corresponding to 1 lb. of steel has been computed for spheres, rounds
and flats. For the sphere with a unit weight of 1 lb. the portion is a cone with the apex at
the center of the sphere and the base the curved surface of the sphere (surface exposed to
quenching). For rounds, a unit weight of 1 lb. may be taken as a disk or cylinder, the base
and top surfaces naturally do not enter into calculation. For a flat, a prismatic or cylindrical
volume may be taken to represent the unit weight. The surfaces that are considered in this
instance are the top and base of the section, as these surfaces are the ones exposed to cooling."

The results of the calculations are as follows:

TABLE 20.--SPHERE

  Diameter      Surface per
  of sphere    pound of steel
     X            Y
    8 in.       2.648 sq. in.
    6 in.       3.531 sq. in.
    4 in.       5.294 sq. in.
    3 in.       7.062 sq. in.
    2 in.      10.61  sq. in.
XY = 21.185.

TABLE 21.--ROUND

  Diameter      Surface per
  of round     pound of steel
    X             Y
  8.0  in.      1.765 sq. in.
  6.0  in.      2.354 sq. in.
  5.0  in.      2.829 sq. in.
  4.0  in.      3.531 sq. in.
  3.0  in.      4.708 sq. in.
  2.0  in.      7.062 sq. in.
  1.0  in.     14.125 sq. in.
  0.5  in.     28.25  sq. in.
  0.25 in.     56.5   sq. in.
XY = 14.124.

TABLE 22.--FLAT

  Thickness     Surface per
   of flat     pound of steel
     X            Y
  8.0  in.     0.8828 sq. in.
  6.0  in.     1.177  sq. in.
  5.0  in.     1.412  sq. in.
  4.0  in.     1.765  sq. in.
  3.0  in.     2.345  sq. in.
  2.0  in.     3.531  sq. in.
  1.0  in.     7.062  sq. in.
  0.5  in.    14.124  sq. in.
  0.25 in.    28.248 sq. in.
XY = 7.062.

Having once determined the physical qualities of a certain specimen, and found its position
on the curve we have the means to predict the decrease of physical qualities on larger specimens
which receive the same heat treatment.

When the surfaces of the unit weight as outlined in the foregoing tables are plotted as ordinates
and the corresponding diameters as abscissæ, the resulting curve is a hyperbola and follows
the law XY = C. In making these calculations the radii or one-half of the thickness need only
to be taken into consideration as the heat is conducted from the center of the body to the
surface, following the shortest path.

The equations for the different shapes are as follows:

  For flats   XY =  7.062
  For rounds  XY = 14.124
  For spheres XY = 21.185

It will be noted that the constants increase in a ratio of 1, 2, and 3, and the three bodies
in question will increase in hardness on being quenched in the same ratio, it being understood
that the diameter of the sphere and round and thickness of the flat are equal.

Relative to shape, it is interesting to note that rounds, squares, octagons and other three
axial bodies, with two of their axes equal, have the same surface for the unit weight.

For example:

      Size     Length    Surface      Weight    Surface for 1 lb.
  2 in. Sq.    12 in.  96.0 sq. in.  13.60 lb.  7.06 sq. in.
  2 in. Round  12 in.  75.4 sq. in.  10.68 lb.  7.06 sq. in.

Although this discussion is at present based upon mathematical analysis, it is hoped that it
will open up a new field of investigation in which but little work has been done, and may assist
in settling the as yet unsolved question of the effect of size and shape in the heat treatment
of steel.

HEAT-TREATING EQUIPMENT AND METHODS FOR MASS PRODUCTION

The heat-treating department of the Brown-Lipe-Chapin Company, Syracuse, N. Y., runs day and
night, and besides handling all the hardening of tools, parts of jigs, fixtures, special machines
and appliances, carburizes and heat-treats every month between 150,000 and 200,000 gears, pinions,
crosses and other components entering into the construction of differentials for automobiles.

The treatment of the steel really begins in the mill, where the steel is made to conform to
a specific formula. On the arrival of the rough forgings at the Brown-Lipe-Chapin factory,
the first of a long series of inspections begins.

ANNEALING METHOD.--Forgings which are too hard to machine are put in pots with a little charcoal
to cause a reducing atmosphere and to prevent scale. The covers are then luted on and the pots
placed in the furnace. Carbon steel from 15 to 25 points is annealed at 1,600°F. Nickel steel
of the same carbon and containing in addition 3-1/2 per cent nickel is annealed at 1,450°F.
When the pots are heated through, they are rolled to the yard and allowed to cool. This method
of annealing gives the best hardness for quick machining.

The requirements in the machine operations are very rigid and, in spite of great care and probably
the finest equipment of special machines in the world, a small percentage of the product fails
to pass inspection during or at the completion of the machine operations. These pieces, however,
are not a loss, for they play an important part in the hardening process, indicating as they
do the exact depth of penetration of the carburizing material and the condition of both case
and core.

HEAT-TREATING DEPARTMENT.--The heat-treating department occupies an L-shaped building. The
design is very practical, with the furnace and the floor on the same level so that there is
no lifting of heavy pots. Fuel oil is used in all the furnaces and gives highly satisfactory
results. The consumption of fuel oil is about 2 gal. per hour per furnace.

The work is packed in the pots in a room at the entrance to the heat-treatment building. Before
packing, each gear is stamped with a number which is a key to the records of the analysis and
complete heat treatment of that particular gear. Should a question at any time arise regarding
the treatment of a certain gear, all the necessary information is available if the number on
the gear is legible. For instance, date of treatment, furnace, carburizing material, position
of the pot in the furnace, position of gear in pot, temperature of furnace and duration of
treatment are all tabulated and filed for reference.

After marking, all holes and parts which are to remain uncarburized are plugged or luted with
a mixture of kaolin and Mellville gravel clay, and the gear is packed in the carburizing material.
Bohnite, a commercial carburizing compound is used exclusively at this plant. This does excellent
work and is economical. Broadly speaking, the economy of a carburizing compound depends on
its lightness. The space not occupied by work must be filled with compound; therefore) other
things being equal, a compound weighing 25 lb. would be worth more than twice as much as one
weighing 60 lb. per cubic foot. It has been claimed that certain compounds can be used over
and over again, but this is only true in a limited way, if good work is required. There is,
of course, some carbon in the compound after the first use, but for first-class work, new compound
must be used each time.

THE PACKING DEPARTMENT.--In Fig. 56 is shown the packing pots where the work is packed. These
are of malleable cast iron, with an internal vertical flange around the hole A. This fits in
a bell on the end of the cast-iron pipe B, which is luted in position with fireclay before
the packing begins. At C is shown a pot ready for packing. The crown gears average 10 to 12
in. in diameter and weigh about 11 lb. each. When placed in the pots, they surround the central
tube, which allows the heat to circulate. Each pot contains five gears. Two complete scrap
gears are in each furnace (i.e., gears which fail to pass machining inspection), and at the
top of front pot are two or more short segments of scrap gear, used as test pieces to gage
depth of case.

After filling to the top with compound, the lid D is luted on. Ten pots are then placed in
a furnace. It will be noted that the pots to the right are numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, indicating
the position they are to occupy in the furnace.

The cast-iron ball shown at E is small enough to drop through the pipe B, but will not pass
through the hole A in the bottom of the pot. It is used as a valve to plug the bottom of the
pot to prevent the carburizing compound from dropping through when removing the carburized
gears to the quenching bath.

Without detracting from the high quality of the work, the metallurgist in this plant has succeeded
in cutting out one entire operation and reducing the time in the hardening room by about 24 hr.

Formerly, the work was carburized at about 1,700°F. for 9 hr. The pots were then run out into
the yard and allowed to cool slowly. When cool, the work was taken out of the pots, reheated
and quenched at 1,600°F. to refine the core. It was again reheated to 1,425°F. and quenched
to refine the case. Finally, it was drawn to the proper temper.

SHORT METHOD OF TREATMENT.--In the new method, the packed pots are run into the case-hardening
furnaces, which are heated to 1,600°F. On the insertion of the cold pots, the temperature naturally
falls. The amount of this fall is dependent upon a number of variables, but it averages nearly
500°F. as shown in the pyrometer chart, Fig. 61. The work and furnace must be brought to 1,600°F.
Within 2-1/2 hr.; otherwise, a longer time will be necessary to obtain the desired depth of
case. On this work, the depth of case required is designated in thousandths, and on crown gears,
the depth in 0.028 in. Having brought the work to a temperature of 1,600°F. the depth of case
mentioned can be obtained in about 5-1/2 hr. by maintaining this temperature.

As stated before, at the top of each pot are several test pieces consisting of a whole scrap
gear and several sections. After the pots have been heated at 1,600°F. for about 5-1/4 hr.,
they are removed, and a scrap-section test-piece is quenched direct from the pot in mineral
oil at not more than 100°F. The end of a tooth of this is then ground and etched to ascertain
the depth of case. As these test pieces are of exactly the same cross-section as the gears
themselves, the carburizing action is similar. When the depth of case has been found from the
etched test pieces to be satisfactory, the pots are removed. The iron ball then is dropped
into the tube to seal the hole in the bottom of the pot; the cover and the tube are removed,
and the gears quenched direct from the pot in mineral oil, which is kept at a temperature not
higher than 100°F.

THE EFFECT.--The heating at 1,600°F. gives the first heat treatment which refines the core,
which under the former high heat (1,700°F.) was rendered coarsely crystalline. All the gears,
including the scrap gears, are quenched direct from the pot in this manner.

The gears then go to the reheating furnaces, situated in front of a battery of Gleason quenching
machines. These furnaces accommodate from 12 to 16 crown gears. The carbon-steel gears are
heated in a reducing atmosphere to about 1,425°F. (depending on the carbon content) placed
in the dies in the Gleason quenching machine, and quenched between dies in mineral oil at less
than 100°F. The test gear receives exactly the same treatment as the others and is then broken,
giving a record of the condition of both case and core.

AFFINITY OF NICKEL STEEL FOR CARBON.--The carbon- and nickel-steel gears are carburized separately
owing to the difference in time necessary for their carburization. Practically all printed
information on the subject is to the effect that nickel steel takes longer to carburize than
plain carbon steel. This is directly opposed to the conditions found at this plant. For the
same depth of case, other conditions being equal, a nickel-steel gear would require from 20
to 30 min. less than a low carbon-steel gear.

From the quenching machines, the gears go to the sand-blasting machines, situated in the wing
of the heat-treating building, where they are cleaned. From here they are taken to the testing
department. The tests are simple and at the same time most thorough.

TESTING AND INSPECTION OF HEAT TREATMENT.--The hard parts of the gear must be so hard that
a new mill file does not bite in the least. Having passed this file test at several points,
the gears go to the center-punch test. The inspector is equipped with a wooden trough secured
to the top of the bench to support the gear, a number of center punches (made of 3/4-in. hex-steel
having points sharpened to an angle of 120 deg.) and a hammer weighing about 4 oz. With these
simple tools, supplemented by his skill, the inspector can feel the depth and quality of the
case and the condition of the core. The gears are each tested in this way at several points
on the teeth and elsewhere, the scrap gear being also subjected to the test. Finally, the scrap
gear is securely clamped in the straightening press shown in Fig. 57. With a 3-1/2-lb. hammer
and a suitable hollow-ended drift manipulated by one of Sandow's understudies, teeth are broken
out of the scrap gear at various points. These give a record confirming the center-punch tests,
which, if the angle of the center punch is kept at 120 deg. and the weight of the hammer and
blow are uniform, is very accurate.

After passing the center-punch test the ends of the teeth are peened lightly with a hammer.
If they are too hard, small particles fly off. Such gears are drawn in oil at a temperature
of from 300 to 350°F., depending on their hardness. Some builders prefer to have the extreme
outer ends of the teeth drawn somewhat lower than the rest. This drawing is done on gas-heated
red-hot plates, as shown at A in Fig. 58.

Nickel steel, in addition to all the tests given to carbon steel, is subjected to a Brinell
test. For each steel, the temperature and the period of treatment are specific. For some unknown
reason, apparently like material with like treatment will, in isolated cases, not produce like
results. It then remains for the treatment to be repeated or modified, but the results obtained
during inspection form a valuable aid to the metallurgist in determining further treatment.

TEMPERATURE RECORDING AND REGULATION.--Each furnace is equipped with pyrometers, but the reading
and recording of all temperatures are in the hands of one man, who occupies a room with an
opening into the end of the hardening department. The opening is about 15 ft. above the floor
level. On each side of it, easily legible from all of the furnaces, is a board with the numbers
of the various furnaces, as shown in Figs. 59 and 60. Opposite each furnace number is a series
of hooks whereon are hung metal numbers representing the pyrometer readings of the temperature
in that particular furnace. Within the room, as shown in Fig. 60, the indicating instrument
is to the right, and to the left is a switchboard to connect it with the thermo-couples in
the various furnaces. The boards shown to the right and the left swing into the room, which
enables the attendant easily to change the numbers to conform to the pyrometer readings. Readings
of the temperatures of the carburizing furnaces are taken and tabulated every ten minutes.
These, numbered 1 to 10, are shown on the board to the right in Fig. 59. The card shown in
Fig. 61 gives such a record. These records are filed away for possible future reference.

The temperatures of the reheating furnaces, numbered from 1 to 26 and shown on the board to
the left in Fig. 59, are taken every 5 min.

Each furnace has a large metal sign on which is marked the temperature at which the furnace
regulator is required to keep his heat. As soon as any variation from this is posted on the
board outside the pyrometer room, the attendant sees it and adjusts the burners to compensate.

DIES FOR GLEASON TEMPERING MACHINES.--In Fig. 62 is shown a set of dies for the Gleason tempering
machine. These accurately made dies fit and hold the gear true during quenching, thus preventing
distortion.

Referring to Fig. 62, the die A has a surface B which fits the face of the teeth of the gear
C. This surface is perforated by a large number of holes which permit the quenching oil to
circulate freely. The die A is set in the upper end of the plunger A of the tempering machine,
shown in Fig. 63, a few inches above the surface of the quenching oil in the tank N. Inside
the die A are the centering jaws D, Fig. 62, which are an easy fit for the bore of the gear
C. The inner surface of the centering jaws is in the shape of a female cone. The upper die
is shown at E. In the center (separate from it, but a snug sliding fit in it) is the expander
G, which, during quenching, enters the taper in the centering jaws D, expanding them against
the bore of the gear C. The faces F of the upper die E fit two angles at the back of the gear
and are grooved for the passage of the quenching oil. The upper die E is secured to the die
carrier B, shown in Fig. 9, and inside the die is the expander G, which is backed up by compression
springs.

HARDENING OPERATION.--Hardening a gear is accomplished as follows: The gear is taken from the
furnace by the furnaceman and placed in the lower die, surrounding the centering jaws, as shown
at H in Fig. 62 and C in Fig. 63. Air is then turned into the cylinder D, and the piston rod
E, the die carrier B, the top die F and the expander G descend. The pilot H enters a hole in
the center of the lower die, and the expander G enters the centering jaws I, causing them to
expand and center the gear C in the lower die. On further advance of the piston rod E, the
expander G is forced upward against the pressure of the springs J and the upper die F comes
in contact with the upper surface of the gear. Further downward movement of the dies, which
now clamp the work securely, overcomes the resistance of the pressure weight K (which normally
keeps up the plunger A), and the gear is submerged in the oil. The quenching oil is circulated
through a cooling system outside the building and enters the tempering machine through the
inlet pipe L. When the machine is in the position shown, the oil passes out through the ports
M in the lower plunger to the outer reservoir N, passing to the cooling system by way of the
overflow O. When the lower plunger A is forced downward, the ports M are automatically closed
and the cool quenching oil from the inlet pipe L, having no other means of escape, passes through
the holes in the lower die and the grooves in the upper, circulating in contact with the surfaces
of the gear and passes to the overflow. When the air pressure is released, the counterweights
return the parts to the positions shown in Fig. 63, and the operator removes the gear.

The gear comes out uniformly hard all over and of the same degree of hardness as when tempered
in an open tank. The output of the machine depends on the amount of metal to be cooled, but
will average from 8 to 16 per hour. Each machine is served by one man, two furnaces being required
to heat the work. A slight excess of oil is used in the firing of the furnaces to give a reducing
atmosphere and to avoid scale.

CARBURIZING LOW-CARBON SLEEVES.--Low-carbon sleeves are carburized and pushed on malleable-iron
differential-case hubs. Formerly, these sleeves were given two treatments after carburization
in order to refine the case and the core, and then sent to the grinding department, where they
were ground to a push fit for the hubs. After this they were pushed on the hubs. By the method
now employed, the first treatment refines the core, and on the second treatment, the sleeves
are pushed on the hub and at the same time hardened. This method cuts out the internal grinding
time, pressing on hubs, and haulage from one department to another. Also, less work is lost
through splitting of the sleeves.

The machine for pushing the sleeves on is shown in Fig. 64. At A is the stem on which the hot
sleeve B is to be pushed. The carburized sleeves are heated in an automatic furnace, which
takes them cold at the back and feeds them through to the front, by which time they are at
the correct temperature. The loose mandrel C is provided with a spigot on the lower end, which
fits the hole in the differential-case hub. The upper end is tapered as shown and acts as a
pilot for the ram D. The action of pushing on and quenching is similar to the action of the
Gleason tempering machine, with the exception that water instead of oil is used as a quenching
medium. The speed of operation depends on a number of variables, but from 350 to 500 can be
heated and pressed on in 11 hr.

CYANIDE BATH FOR TOOL STEELS.--All high-carbon tool steels are heated in a cyanide bath. With
this bath, the heat can be controlled within 3 deg. The steel is evenly heated without exposure
to the air, resulting in work which is not warped and on which there is no scale. The cyanide
bath is, of course, not available for high-speed steel because of the very high temperatures
necessary.

DROP FORGING DIES

The kind of steel used in the die of course influences the heat treatment it is to receive,
but this also depends on the kind of work the die is to perform. If the die is for a forging
which is machined all over and does not have to be especially close to size, where a variation
of 1/16 in. is not considered excessive, a low grade steel will be perfectly satisfactory.

In cases of fine work, however, where the variation cannot be over 0.005 to 0.01 in. we must
use a fine steel and prevent its going out of shape in the heating and quenching. A high quality
crucible steel is suggested with about the following analysis: Carbon 0.75 per cent, manganese
0.25 per cent, silicon 0.15 per cent, sulphur 0.015 per cent, and phosphorus 0.015 per cent.
Such a steel will have a decalescent point in the neighborhood of 1,355°F. and for the size
used, probably in a die of approximately 8 in., it will harden around 1,450°F.

To secure best results care must be taken at every step. The block should be heated slowly
to about 1,400°F., the furnace closed tight and allowed to cool slowly in the furnace itself.
It should not soak at the high temperature.

After machining, and before it is put in the furnace for hardening, it should be slowly preheated
to 800 or 900°F. This can be done in several ways, some putting the die block in front of the
open door of a hardening furnace and keeping the furnace at about 1,000°F. The main thing is
to heat the die block very slowly and evenly.

The hardening heat should be very slow, 7 hr. being none too long for such a block, bringing
the die up gradually to the quenching temperature of 1,450°. This should be held for 1/2 hr.
or even a little more, when the die can be taken out and quenched. There should be no guess
work about the heating, a good pyrometer being the only safe way of knowing the correct temperature.

The quenching tank should be of good size and have a spray or stream of water coming up near
the surface. Dip the die block about 3 in. deep and let the stream of water get at the face
so as to play on the forms. By leaving the rest of the die out of the water, moving the die
up and down a trifle to prevent a crack at the line of immersion, the back of the block is
left tough while the face is very hard. To overcome the tendency to warp the face it is a good
plan to pour a little water on the back of the die as this tends to even up the cooling. The
depth to which the die is dipped can be easily regulated by placing bars across the tank at
the proper depth.

After the scleroscope shows the die to be properly hardened, which means from 98 to 101, the
temper should be drawn as soon as convenient. A lead pot in which the back of the die can be
suspended so as to heat the back side, makes a good method. Or the die block can be placed
back to the open door of a furnace. On a die of this size it may take several hours to draw
it to the desired temper. This can be tested while warm by the scleroscope method, bearing
in mind that the reading will not be the same as when cold. If the test shows from 76 to 78
while warm, the hardness when cold will be about 83, which is about right for this work.

S. A. E. HEAT TREATMENTS

The Society of Automotive Engineers have adopted certain heat treatments to suit different
steels and varying conditions. These have already been referred to on pages 39 to 41 in connection
with the different steels used in automobile practice. These treatments are designated by letter
and correspond with the designations in the table.

HEAT TREATMENTS

Heat Treatment A

After forging or machining:
  1. Carbonize at a temperature between 1,600°F. and 1,750°F.
     (1,650-1,700°F. desired.)
  2. Cool slowly or quench.
  3. Reheat to 1,450-1,500°F. and quench.

Heat Treatment B

After forging or machining:
  1.
  3. Reheat to 1,550-1,625°F.
  4. Quench.
  5. Reheat to 1,400-1,450°F.
  6. Quench.
  7. Draw in hot oil at 300 to 450°F., depending upon the degree of
     hardness desired.

Heat Treatment D

After forging or machining:
  1. Heat to 1,500-1,600°F.
  2. Quench.
  3. Reheat to 1,450-1,500°F.
  4. Quench.
  5. Reheat to 600-1,200°F. and cool slowly.

Heat Treatment E

After forging or machining:
  1. Heat to 1,500-1,550°F.
  2. Cool slowly. Heat to 1,425-1,475°F.
  2. Quench in oil.
  3. Reheat to 400-900°F., in accordance with temper desired and cool
     slowly. Quench.
  5. Reheat to 1,300-1,400°F.
  6. Quench.
  7. Quench.
  3. Quench.
  3.
  4. Quench.
  5. Reheat to 500-1,250°F. and cool slowly.

Heat Treatment Q

After forging:
  1. Heat to 1,475-1,525°F. (Hold at this temperature one-half hour,
     to insure thorough heating.)
  2. Cool slowly.
  3. Machine.
  4. Reheat to 1,375-1,425°F.
  5. Quench.
  6. Reheat to 250-550°F. and cool slowly.

Heat Treatment R

After forging:
  1. Heat to 1,500-1,550°F.
  2. Quench in oil.
  3. Reheat to 1,200-1,300°F. (Hold at this temperature three hours.)
  4. Cool slowly.
  5. Machine.
  6. Reheat to 1,350-1,450°F.
  7. Quench in oil.
  8. Quench.
  5. Reheat to 1,475-1,550°F.
  6. Quench.
  7. Quench.
  3. Reheat to 500-1,300°F. and cool slowly.

Heat Treatment U

After forging:
  1. Heat to 1,525-1,600°F. (Hold for about one-half hour.)
  2. Cool slowly.
  3. Machine.
  4. Reheat to 1,650-1,700°F.
  5. Quench.
  6.

RESTORING OVERHEATED STEEL

The effect of heat treatment on overheated steel is shown graphically in Fig. 65 to the series
of illustrations on pages 137 to 144. This was prepared by Thos. Firth & Sons, Ltd., Sheffield,
England.

The center piece Fig. 65 represents a block of steel weighing about 25 lb. The central hole
accommodated a thermo-couple which was attached to an autographic recorder. The curve is a
copy of the temperature record during heating and cooling. Into the holes in the side of the
block small pegs of overheated mild steel were inserted. One peg was withdrawn and quenched
at each of the temperatures indicated by the numbered arrows, and after suitable preparation
these pegs were photographed in order to show the changes in structure taking place during
heating and cooling operations. The illustrations here reproduced are selected from those photographs
with the object of presenting pictorially the changes involved in the refining of overheated
steel or steel castings. Figures 66 to 79 with their captions show much that is of value to
steel users.

CHAPTER IX

HARDENING CARBON STEEL FOR TOOLS

For years the toolmaker had full sway in regard to make of steel wanted for shop tools, he
generally made his own designs, hardened, tempered, ground and usually set up the machine where
it was to be used and tested it.

Most of us remember the toolmaker during the sewing machine period when interchangeable tools
were beginning to find their way; rather cautiously at first. The bicycle era was the real
beginning of tool making from a manufacturing standpoint, when interchangeable tools for rapid
production were called for and toolmakers were in great demand. Even then, jigs, and fixtures
were of the toolmaker's own design, who practically built every part of it from start to finish.

The old way, however, had to be changed. Instead of the toolmaker starting his work from cutting
off the stock in the old hack saw, a place for cutting off stock was provided. If, for instance,
a forming tool was wanted, the toolmaker was given the master tool to make while an apprentice
roughed out the cutter. The toolmaker, however, reserved the hardening process for himself.
That was one of the particular operations that the old toolmaker refused to give up. It seemed
preposterous to think for a minute that any one else could possibly do that particular job
without spoiling the tools, or at least warp it out of shape (most of us did not grind holes
in cutters 15 to 20 years ago); or a hundred or more things might happen unless the toolmaker
did his own hardening and tempering.

That so many remarkably good tools were made at that time is still a wonder to many, when we
consider that the large shop had from 30 to 40 different men, all using their own secret compounds,
heating to suit eyesight, no matter if the day was bright or dark, and then tempering to color.
But the day of the old toolmaker has changed. Now a tool is designed by a tool designer, O.K.'d,
and then a print goes to the foreman of the tool department, who specifies the size and gets
the steel from the cutting-off department. After finishing the machine work it goes to the
hardening room, and this is the problem we shall now take up in detail.

THE MODERN HARDENING ROOM.--A hardening room of today means a very different place from the
dirty, dark smithshop in the corner with the open coal forge. There, when we wanted to be somewhat
particular, we sometimes shoveled the coal cinders to one side and piled a great pile of charcoal
on the forge. We now have a complete equipment; a gas- or oil-heating furnace, good running
water, several sizes of lead pots, and an oil tank large enough to hold a barrel of oil. By
running water, we mean a large tank with overflow pipes giving a constant supply. The ordinary
hardening room equipment should consist of:

  Gas or oil muffle furnace for hardening.
  Gas or oil forge furnace.
  A good size gas or oil furnace for annealing and case-hardening.
  A gas or oil furnace to hold lead pots.
  Oil tempering tank, gas- or oil-heated.
  Pressure blower.
  Large oil tank to hold at least a barrel of oil.
  Big water tank with screen trays connected with large pipe from bottom
    with overflow.
  Straightening press.
  The furnace should be connected with pyrometers and tempering tank with
    a thermometer.

Beside all this you need a good man. It does not make much difference how completely the hardening
department is fitted up, if you expect good work, a small percentage of loss and to be able
to tackle anything that comes along, you must have a good man, one who understands the difference
between low- and high-carbon steel, who knows when particular care must be exercised on particular
work. In other words, a man who knows how his work should be done, and has the intelligence
to follow directions on treatments of steel on which he has had no experience.

Jewelers' tools, especially for silversmith's work, probably have to stand the greatest punishment
of any all-steel tools and to make a spoon die so hard that it will not sink under a blow from
an 1,800-lb. hammer with a 4-ft. drop, and still not crack, demands careful treatment.

To harden such dies, first cover the impression on the die with paste made from bone dust or
lampblack and oil. Place face down in an iron box partly filled with crushed charcoal, leaving
back of die uncovered so that the heat can be seen at all times. Heat slowly in furnace to
a good cherry red. The heat depends on the quality and the analysis of steel and the recommended
actions of the steel maker should be carefully followed. When withdrawn from the fire the die
should be quenched as shown in Fig. 80 with the face of die down and the back a short distance
out of the water. When the back is black, immerse all over.

If such a tank is not at hand, it would pay to rig one up at once, although a barrel of brine
may be used, or the back of the die may be first immersed to a depth of about 1/2 in. When
the piece is immersed, hold die on an angle as in Fig. 81.

This is for the purpose of expelling all steam bubbles as they form in contact with hot steel.
We are aware of the fact that a great many toolmakers in jewelry shops still cling to the overhead
bath, as in Fig. 82, but more broken pieces and more dies with soft spots are due to this method
than to all the others combined, as the water strikes one spot in force, contracting the surface
so much faster than the rest of the die that the results are the same as if an uneven heating
had been given the steel.

TAKE TIME FOR HARDENING.--Uneven heating and poor quenching has caused loss of many very valuable
dies, and it certainly seems that when a firm spends from $75 to $450 in cutting a die that
a few hours could be spared for proper hardening. But the usual feeling is that a tool must
be hurried as soon as the hardener gets it, and if a burst die is the result from either uneven
or overheated steel and quenching same without judgment, the steel gets the blame.

Give the steel a chance to heat properly, mix a little common sense with "your 30 years experience
on the other fellows steel." Remember that high-carbon steel hardens at a lower heat than low-carbon
steel, and quench when at the right heat in the two above ways, and 99 per cent of the trouble
will vanish.

When a die flies to pieces in quenching, don't rush to the superintendent with a "poor-steel"
story, but find out first why it broke so that the salesman who sold it will not be able to
harden piece after piece from the same bar satisfactorily. If you find a "cold short," commonly
called "a pipe," you can lay the blame on the steelmaker. If it is a case of overheating and
quenching when too hot, you will find a coarse grain with many bright spots like crystals to
the hardening depth. If uneven heating is the cause, you will find a wider margin of hardening
depth on one side than on the other, or find the coarse grain from over-heating on one side
while on the other you will find a close grain, which may be just right. If you find any other
faults than a "pipe," or are not able to harden deep enough, then take the blame like a man
and send for information. The different steel salesmen are good fellows and most of them know
a thing or two about their own business.

For much work a cooling bath at from 50 to 75°F. is very good both for small hobs, dies, cutter
plates or plungers. Some work will harden best in a barrel of brine, but in running cold water,
splendid results will be obtained. Cutter plates should always be dipped corner first and if
any have stripper holes, they should first be plugged with asbestos or fire clay cement.

In general it may be said that the best hardening temperature for carbon steel is the lowest
temperature at which it will harden properly.

CARBON IN TOOL STEEL

Carbon tool steel, or "tool steel" as it is commonly called, usually contains from 80 to 125
points (or from 0.80 to 1.25 per cent) of carbon, and none of the alloys which go to make up
the high speed steels. This was formerly known also as crucible or "cast" steel, or crucible
cast steel, from the way in which it was made. This was before the days of steel castings.
The advent of these caused so much confusion that the term was soon dropped. When we say "tool
steel," we nearly always refer to carbon-tool steel, high-speed steel being usually designated
by that name.

For many purposes carbon-steel cutters are still found best, although where a large amount
of material is to be removed at a rapid rate, it has given way to high-speed steels.

CARBON STEELS FOR DIFFERENT TOOLS

All users of tool steels should carefully study the different qualities of the steels they
handle. Different uses requires different kinds of steel for best results, and for the purpose
of designating different steels some makers have adopted the two terms "temper," and "quality,"
to distinguish between them.

In this case temper refers to the amount of carbon which is combined with the iron to make
the metal into a steel. The quality means the absence of phosphorous, sulphur and other impurities,
these depending on the ores and the methods of treatment.

Steel makers have various ways of designating carbon steels for different purposes. Some of
these systems involve the use of numbers, that of the Latrobe Steel Company being given herewith.
It will be noted that the numbers are based on 20 points of carbon per unit. The names given
the different tempers are also of interest. Other makers use different numbers.

The temper list follows:

    LATROBE TEMPER LIST OF CARBON TOOL STEELS
  No. 3     temper 0.60 to 0.69 per cent carbon
  No. 3-1/2 temper 0.70 to 0.79 per cent carbon
  No. 4     temper 0.80 to 0.89 per cent carbon
  No. 4-1/2 temper 0.90 to 0.99 pet cent carbon
  No. 5     temper 1.00 to 1.09 per cent carbon
  No. 5-1/2 temper 1.10 to 1.19 per cent carbon
  No. 6     temper 1.20 to 1.29 per cent carbon
  No. 6-1/2 temper 1.30 to 1.39 per cent carbon
  No. 7     temper 1.40 to 1.49 per cent carbon

USES OF THE VARIOUS TEMPERS OF CARBON TOOL STEEL

DIE TEMPER.--No. 3: All kinds of dies for deep stamping, pressing and drop forgings. Mining
drills to harden only. Easily weldable.

SMITHS' TOOL TEMPER.--No. 3-1/2: Large punches, minting and rivet dies, nailmakers' tools,
hammers, hot and cold sets, snaps and boilermakers' tools, various smiths' tools, large shear
blades, double-handed chisels, caulking tools, heading dies, masons' tools and tools for general
welding purposes.

SHEAR BLADE TEMPER.--No. 4: Punches, large taps, screwing dies, shear blades, table cutlery,
circular and long saws, heading dies. Weldable.

GENERAL PURPOSE TEMPER.--No. 4-1/2: Taps, small punches, screwing dies, sawwebs, needles, etc.,
and for all general purposes. Weldable.

AXE TEMPER.--No. 5: Axes, chisels, small taps, miners' drills and jumpers to harden and temper,
plane irons. Weldable with care.

CUTLERY TEMPER.--No. 5-1/2: Large milling cutters, reamers, pocket cutlery, wood tools, short
saws, granite drills, paper and tobacco knives. Weldable with very great care.

TOOL TEMPER.--No. 6: Turning, planing, slotting, and shaping tools, twist drills, mill picks,
scythes, circular cutters, engravers' tools, surgical cutlery, circular saws for cutting metals,
bevel and other sections for turret lathes. Not weldable.

HARD TOOL TEMPER.--No. 6-1/2: Small twist drills, razors, small and intricate engravers' tools,
surgical instruments, knives. Not weldable.

RAZOR TEMPER.--No. 7: Razors, barrel boring bits, special lathe tools for turning chilled rolls.
Not weldable.

STEEL FOR CHISELS AND PUNCHES

The highest grades of carbon or tempering steels are to be recommended for tools which have
to withstand shocks, such as for cold chisels or punches. These steels are, however, particularly
useful where it is necessary to cut tempered or heat-treated steel which is more than ordinarily
hard, for cutting chilled iron, etc. They are useful for boring, for rifle-barrel drilling,
for fine finishing cuts, for drawing dies for brass and copper, for blanking dies for hard
materials, for formed cutters on automatic screw machines and for roll-turning tools.

Steel of this kind, being very dense in structure, should be given more time in heating for
forging and for hardening, than carbon steels of a lower grade. For forging it should be heated
slowly and uniformly to a bright red and only light blows used as the heat dies out. Do not
hammer at all at a black heat. Reheat slowly to a dark red for hardening and quench in warm
water. Grind on a wet grindstone.

Where tools have to withstand shocks and vibration, as in pneumatic hammer work, in severe
punching duty, hot or cold upsetting or similar work, tool steels containing vanadium or chrome-vanadium
give excellent results. These are made particularly for work of this kind.

CHISELS-SHAPES AND HEAT TREATMENT[1]

[Footnote 1: Abstract of paper by HENRY FOWLER, chief mechanical engineer of the Midland Ry.,
England, before the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.]

In the chief mechanical engineer's department of the Midland Ry., after considerable experimenting,
it was decided to order chisel steel to the following specifications: carbon, 0.75 to 0.85
per cent, the other constituents being normal. This gives a complete analysis as follows: carbon,
0.75 to 0.85; manganese, 0.30; silicon, 0.10; sulphur, 0.025; phosphorus, 0.025.

The analysis of a chisel which had given excellent service was as follows: carbon, 0.75; manganese,
0.38; silicon, 0.16; sulphur, 0.028; phosphorus, 0.026. The heat treatment is unknown.

At the same time that chisel steel was standardized, the form of the chisels themselves was
revised, and a standard chart of these as used in the locomotive shops was drawn up. Figure
83 shows the most important forms, which are made to stock orders in the smithy and forwarded
to the heat-treatment room where the hardening and tempering is carried out on batches of fifty.
A standard system of treatment is employed, which to a very large extent does away with the
personal element. Since the chemical composition is more or less constant, the chief variant
is the section which causes the temperatures to be varied slightly. The chisels are carefully
heated in a gas-fired furnace to a temperature of from 730 to 740°C. (1,340 to 1,364°F.) according
to section. In practice, the first chisel, is heated to 730°C.; and the second to 735°C. (1,355°F.);
and a 1 in. half round chisel to 740°C., because of their varying increasing thickness of section
at the points. Upon attaining this steady temperature, the chisels are quenched to a depth
of 3/8 to 1/2 in. from the point in water, and then the whole chisel is immersed and cooled
off in a tank containing linseed oil.

The oil-tank is cooled by being immersed in a cold-water tank through which water is constantly
circulated. After this treatment, the chisels have a dead hard point and a tough or sorbitic
shaft. They are then tempered or the point "let down." This is done by immersing them in another
oil-bath which has been raised to about 215°C. (419°F). The first result is, of course, to
drop the temperature of the oil, which is gradually raised to its initial point. On approaching
this temperature the chisels are taken out about every 2°C. rise and tested with a file, and
at a point between 215 and 220°C. (428°F.), when it is found that the desired temper has been
reached, the chisels are removed, cleaned in sawdust, and allowed to cool in an iron tray.

No comparative tests of these chisels with those bought and treated by the old rule-of-thumb
methods have been made, as no exact method of carrying out such tests mechanically, other than
trying the hardness by the Brinell or scleroscope method, are known; any ordinary test depends
so largely upon the dexterity of the operator. The universal opinion of foremen and those using
the chisels as to the advantages of the ones receiving the standard treatment described is
that a substantial improvement has been made. The chisels were not "normalized." Tests of chisels
normalized at about 900°C. (1,652°F.) showed that they possessed no advantage.

Tools or pieces which have holes or deep depressions should be filled before heating unless
it is necessary to have the holes hard on the inside. In that case the filling would keep the
water away from the surface and no hardening would take place. Where filling is to be done,
various materials are used by different hardeners. Fireclay and common putty seem to be favored
by many.

Every mechanic who has had anything to do with the hardening of tools knows how necessary it
is to take a cut from the surface of the bar that is to be hardened. The reason is that in
the process of making the steel its outer surface has become decarbonized. This change makes
it low-carbon steel, which will of course not harden. It is necessary to remove from 1/16 to
1/4 in. of diameter on bars ranging from 1/2 to 4 in.

This same decarbonization occurs if the steel is placed in the forge in such a way that unburned
oxygen from the blast can get at it. The carbon is oxidized, or burned out, converting the
outside of the steel into low-carbon steel. The way to avoid this is to use a deep fire. Lack
of this precaution is the cause of much spoiled work, not only because of decarbonization of
the outer surface of the metal, but because the cold blast striking the hot steel acts like
boiling hot water poured into an ice-cold glass tumbler. The contraction sets up stresses that
result in cracks when the piece is quenched.

PREVENTING DECARBONIZATION OF TOOL STEEL

It is especially important to prevent decarbonization in such tools as taps and form cutters,
which must keep their shape after hardening and which cannot be ground away on the profile.
For this reason it is well to put taps, reamers and the like into pieces of pipe in heating
them. The pipe need be closed on one end only, as the air will not circulate readily unless
there is an opening at both ends.

Even if used in connection with a blacksmith's forge the lead bath has an advantage for heating
tools of complicated shapes, since it is easier to heat them uniformly and they are submerged
and away from the air. The lead must be stirred frequently or the heat is not uniform in all
parts of the lead bath. Covering the lead with powdered charcoal will largely prevent oxidization
and waste of lead.

Such a bath is good for temperatures between 620 and 1,150°F. At higher temperatures there
is much waste of lead.

ANNEALING TO RELIEVE INTERNAL STRESSES

Work quenched from a high temperature and not afterward tempered will, if complex in shape,
contain many internal stresses which may later cause it to break. They may be eased off by
slight heating without materially lessening the hardness of the piece. One way to do this is
to hold the piece over a fire and test it with a moistened finger. Another way is to dip the
piece in boiling water after it has first been quenched in a cold bath. Such steps are not
necessary with articles which will afterward be tempered and in which the strains are thus reduced.

In annealing steels the operation is similar to hardening, as far as heating is concerned.
The critical temperatures are the proper ones for annealing as well as hardening. From this
point on there is a difference, for annealing consists in cooling as slowly as possible. The
slower the cooling the softer will be the steel.

Annealing may be done in the open air, in furnaces, in hot ashes or lime, in powdered charcoal,
in burnt bone, in charred leather and in water. Open-air annealing will do as a crude measure
in cases where it is desired to take the internal stresses out of a piece. Care must be taken
in using this method that the piece is not exposed to drafts or placed on some cold substance
that will chill it. Furnace annealing is much better and consists in heating the piece in a
furnace to the critical temperature and then allowing the work and the furnace to cool together.

When lime or ashes are used as materials to keep air away from the steel and retain the heat,
they should be first heated to make sure that they are dry. Powdered charcoal is used for high-grade
annealing, the piece being packed in this substance in an iron box and both the work and the
box raised to the critical temperature and then allowed to cool slowly. Machinery steel may
be annealed in spent ground-bone that has been used in casehardening; but tool steel must never
be annealed in this way, as it will be injured by the phosphorus contained in the bone. Charred
leather is the best annealing material for high-carbon steel, because it prevents decarbonizing
taking place.

DOUBLE ANNEALING

Water annealing consists in heating the piece, allowing it to cool in air until it loses its
red heat and becomes black and then immediately quenching it in water. This plan works well
for very low-carbon steel; but for high-carbon steel what is known as the "double annealing
treatment" must be given, provided results are wanted quickly. The process consists in heating
the steel quickly to 200° or more above the upper critical, cooling in air down through the
recalescence point, then reheating it to just above the critical point and again cooling slowly
through the recalescence, then quenching in oil. This process retains in the steel a fine-grained
structure combined with softness.

QUENCHING TOOL STEEL

To secure proper hardness, the cooling of quenching of steel is as important as its heating.
Quenching baths vary in nature, there being a large number of ways to cool a piece of steel
in contrast to the comparatively few ways of heating it.

Plain water, brine and oil are the three most common quenching materials. Of these three the
brine will give the most hardness, and plain water and oil come next. The colder that any of
these baths is when the piece is put into it the harder will be the steel; but this does not
mean that it is a good plan to dip the heated steel into a tank of ice water, for the shock
would be so great that the bar would probably fly to pieces. In fact, the quenching bath must
be sometimes heated a bit to take off the edge of the shock.

Brine solutions will work uniformly, or give the same degree of hardness, until they reach
a temperature of 150°F. above which their grip relaxes and the metals quenched in them become
softer. Plain water holds its grip up to a temperature of approximately 100°F.; but oil baths,
which are used to secure a slower rate of cooling, may be used up to 500° or more. A compromise
is sometimes effected by using a bath consisting of an inch or two of oil floating on the surface
of water. As the hot steel passes through the oil, the shock is not as severe as if it were
to be thrust directly into the water; and in addition, oil adheres to the tool and keeps the
water from direct contact with the metal.

The old idea that mercury will harden steel more than any other quenching material has been
exploded. A bath consisting of melted cyanide of potassium is useful for heating fine engraved
dies and other articles that are required to come out free from scale. One must always be careful
to provide a hood or exhaust system to get rid of the deadly fumes coming from the cyanide pot.

The one main thing to remember in hardening tool steel is to quench on a rising heat. This
does not mean a rapid heating as a slow increase in temperature is much better in every way.

THE THEORY OF TEMPERING.--Steel that has been hardened is generally harder and more brittle
than is necessary, and in order to bring it to the condition that meets our requirements a
treatment called tempering is used. This increases the toughness of the steel, i.e., decrease
the brittleness at the expense of a slight decrease in hardness.

There are several theories to explain this reaction, but generally it is only necessary to
remember that in hardening we quench steel from the austenite phase, and, due to this rapid
cooling, the normal change from austenite to the eutectoid composition does not have time to
take place, and as a consequence the steel exists in a partially transformed, unstable and
very hard condition at atmospheric temperatures. But owing to the internal rigidity which exists
in cold metal the steel is unable to change into its more stable phase until atoms can rearrange
themselves by the application of heat. The higher the heat, the greater the transformation
into the softer phases. As the transformation takes place, a certain amount of heat of reaction,
which under slow cooling would have been released in the critical range, is now released and
helps to cause a further slight reaction.

If a piece of steel is heated to a certain temperature and held there, the tempering color,
instead of remaining unchanged at this temperature, will advance in the tempering-color scale
as it would with increasing temperature. This means that the tempering colors do not absolutely
correspond to the temperatures of steels, but the variations are so slight that we can use
them in actual practice. (See Table 23, page 158.)

TEMPERATURES TO USE.--As soon as the temperature of the steel reaches 100°C. (212°F.) the transformation
begins, increasing in intensity as the temperature is raised, until finally when the lower
critical range is reached, the steel has been all changed into the ordinary constituents of
unhardened steels.

If a piece of polished steel is heated in an ordinary furnace, a thin film of oxides will form
on its surface. The colors of this film change with temperature, and so, in tempering, they
are generally used as an indication of the temperature of the steel. The steel should have
at least one polished face so that this film of oxides may be seen.

An alternative method to the determination of temper by color is to temper by heating in an
oil or salt bath. Oil baths can be used up to temperatures of 500°F.; above this, fused-salt
baths are required. The article to be tempered is put into the bath, brought up to and held
at the required temperature for a certain length of time, and then cooled, either rapidly or
slowly. This takes longer than the color method, but with low temperatures the results are
more satisfactory, because the temperature of the bath can be controlled with a pyrometer.
The tempering temperatures given in the following table are taken from a handbook issued by
the Midvale Steel Company.

TABLE 23.--TEMPERING TEMPERATURES FOR STEELS
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Temperature  |            |  Temperature  |
   for 1 hr.   |            |   for 8 min.  |
---------------|   Color    |---------------|             Uses
Deg. F.|Deg. C.|            |Deg. F.|Deg. C.|
-------|-------|------------|-------|-------|-------------------------------
  370  |  188  |Faint yellow|  460  |  238  |Scrapers, brass-turning tools,
       |       |            |       |       |reamers, taps, milling cutters,
       |       |            |       |       |saw teeth.
  390  |  199  |Light straw |  510  |  265  |Twist drills, lathe tools,
       |       |            |       |       |planer tools, finishing tools
  410  |  210  |Dark straw  |  560  |  293  |Stone tools, hammer faces,
       |       |            |       |       |chisels for hard work, boring
       |       |            |       |       |cutters.
  430  |  221  |Brown       |  610  |  321  |Trephining tools, stamps.
  450  |  232  |Purple      |  640  |  337  |Cold chisels for ordinary work,
       |       |            |       |       |carpenters' tools, picks, cold
       |       |            |       |       |punches, shear blades, slicing
       |       |            |       |       |tools, slotter tools.
  490  |  254  |Dark blue   |  660  |  343  |Hot chisels, tools for hot
       |       |            |       |       |work, springs.
  510  |  265  |Light blue  |  710  |  376  |Springs, screw drivers.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

It will be noted that two sets of temperatures are shown, one being specified for a time interval
of 8 min. and the other for 1 hr. For the finest work the longer time is preferable, while
for ordinary rough work 8 min. is sufficient, after the steel has reached the specified temperature.

The rate of cooling after tempering seems to be immaterial, and the piece can be cooled at
any rate, providing that in large pieces it is sufficiently slow to prevent strains.

KNOWING WHAT TAKES PLACE.--How are we to know if we have given a piece of steel the very best
possible treatment?

The best method is by microscopic examination of polished and etched sections, but this requires
a certain expense for laboratory equipment and upkeep, which may prevent an ordinary commercial
plant from attempting such a refinement. It is highly recommended that any firm that has any
large amount of heat treatment to do, install such an equipment, which can be purchased for
from $250 to $500. Its intelligent use will save its cost in a very short time.

The other method is by examination of fractures of small test bars. Steel heated to its correct
temperatures will show the finest possible grain, whereas underheated steel has not had its
grain structure refined sufficiently, and so will not be at its best. On the other hand, overheated
steel will have a coarser structure, depending on the extent of overheating.

To determine the proper quenching temperature of any particular grade of steel it is only necessary
to heat pieces to various temperatures not more than 20°C. (36°F.) apart, quench in water,
break them, and examine the fractures. The temperature producing the finest grain should be
used for annealing and hardening.

Similarly, to determine tempering temperatures, several pieces should be hardened, then tempered
to various degrees, and cooled in air. Samples, say six, reheated to temperatures varying by
100° from 300 to 800°C. will show a considerable range of properties, and the drawing temperature
of the piece giving the desired results can be used.

For drawing tempers up to 500°F. oil baths of fresh cotton seed oil can be safely and satisfactorily
used. For higher temperature a bath of some kind of fused salt is recommended.

HINTS FOR TOOL STEEL USERS

Do not hesitate to ask for information from the maker as to the best steel to use for a given
purpose, mentioning in as much detail as possible the use for which it is intended.

Do not heat the steel to a higher degree than that fixed in the description of each class.
Never heat the steel to more than a cherry red without forging it or giving it a definite heat
treatment. Heating steel at even moderate temperature is liable to coarsen the grain which
can only be restored by forging or by heat treating.

Let the forging begin as soon as the steel is hot enough and never let tool steel soak in the
fire. Continue the hammering vigorously and constantly, using lighter blows as it cools off,
and stopping when the heat becomes a very dull red or a faint brown.

Should welding be necessary care should be taken not to overheat in order to make an easy weld.
Keep it below the sparkling point as this indicates that the steel is burnt.

Begin to forge as soon as the welds are put together, taking care to use gentle strokes at
first increasing them as the higher heat falls, but not overdoing the hammering when the steel
cools. The hammering should be extended beyond the welding point and should continue until
the dull red or brown heat is reached.

PREVENTING CRACKS IN HARDENING

The blacksmith in the small shop, where equipment is usually very limited, often consisting
of a forge, a small open hard-coal furnace, a barrel of water and a can of oil must have skill
and experience. With this equipment the smith is expected to, and usually can, produce good
results if proper care is taken.

In hardening carbon tool steel in water, too much cannot be said in favor of slow, careful
heating, nor against overheating if cracks are to be avoided.

It is not wise to take the work from the hardening bath and leave it exposed to the air if
there is any heat left in it, because it is more liable to crack than if left in the bath until
cold. In heating, plenty of time is taken for the work to heat evenly clear through, thus avoiding
strains caused by quick and improper heating, In quenching in water, contraction is much more
rapid than was the expansion while heating, and strains begin the moment the work touches the
water. If the piece has any considerable size and is taken from the bath before it is cold
and allowed to come to the air, expansion starts again from the inside so rapidly that the
chilled hardened surface cracks before the strains can be relieved.

Many are most successful with the hardening bath about blood warm. When the work that is being
hardened is nearly cold, it is taken from the water and instantly put into a can of oil, where
it is allowed to finish cooling. The heat in the body of the tool will come to the surface
more slowly, thus relieving the strain and overcoming much of the danger of cracking.

Some contend that the temper should be drawn as soon as possible after hardening: but that
if this cannot be done for some hours, the work should be left in the oil until the tempering
can be done. It is claimed that forming dies and punch-press dies that are difficult to harden
will seldom crack if treated in this way.

Small tools or pieces that are very troublesome because of peculiar shape should be made of
steel which has been thoroughly annealed. It is often well to mill or turn off the outer skin
of the bar, to remove metal which has been cold-worked. Then heat slowly just through the critical
range and cool in the furnace, in order to produce a very fine grain. Tools machined from such
stock, and hardened with the utmost care, will have the best chance to survive without warping,
growth or cracking.

SHRINKING AND ENLARGING WORK

Steel can be shrunk or enlarged by proper heating and cooling. Pins for forced fits can be
enlarged several thousandths of an inch by rapid heating to a dull red and quenching in water.
The theory is that the metal is expanded in heating and that the sudden cooling sets the outer
portion before the core can contract. In dipping the piece is not held under water till cold
but is dipped, held a moment and removed. Then dipped again and again until cold.

Rings and drawing dies are also shrunk in a similar way. The rings are slowly heated to a cherry
red, slipped on a rod and rolled in a shallow pan of water which cools only the outer edge.
This holds the outside while the inner heated portion is forced inward, reducing the hole.
This operation can be repeated a number of times with considerable success.

TEMPERING ROUND DIES

A number of circular dies of carbon tool steel for use in tool holders of turret lathes were
required. No proper tempering oven was available, so the following method was adopted and proved
quite successful.

After the dies had been hardened dead hard in water, they were cleaned up bright. A pair of
ordinary smiths' tongs was made with jaws of heavy material and to fit nicely all around the
outside of the die, leaving a 3/32-in. space when the jaws were closed around the die. The
dies being all ready, the tongs were heated red hot, and the dies were picked up and held by
the tongs. This tempered them from the outside in, left the teeth the temper required and the
outside slightly softer. The dies held up the work successfully and were better than when tempered
in the same bath.

THE EFFECT OF TEMPERING ON WATER-QUENCHED GAGES

The following information has been supplied by Automatic and Electric Furnaces, Ltd., 6, Queenstreet,
London, S. W.:

Two gages of 3/4 in. diameter, 12 threads per inch, were heated in a Wild-Barfield furnace,
using the pyroscopic detector, and were quenched in cold water. They were subsequently tempered
in a salt bath at various increasing temperatures, the effective diameter of each thread and
the scleroscope hardness being measured at each stage. The figures are in 10,000ths of an inch,
and indicate the change + or - with reference to the original effective diameter of the gages.
The results for the two gages have been averaged.

TABLE 24.--CHANGES DUE TO QUENCHING
----------------------------------------------------------------
            |  After  |Tempering temperature, degrees Centigrade
   Thread   |quenching|-----------------------------------------
            |         |  220 |  260 |  300 |  340 |  380 |  420
------------|---------|------|------|------|------|------|------
      1     |   +25   |  +19 |  +17 |  +15 |  +13 |  +11 |  +11
      2     |   +18   |  +12 |  +11 |  + 9 |  + 6 |  + 5 |  + 5
      3     |   +12   |  + 6 |  + 5 |  + 3 |    0 |    0 |    0
      4     |   +10   |  + 4 |  + 4 |  + 2 |  ... |    0 |  - 1
      5     |   + 9   |  + 4 |  + 4 |  + 2 |    0 |    0 |    0
      6     |   + 9   |  + 4 |  + 3 |  + 2 |    0 |    0 |    0
      7     |   +10   |  + 5 |  + 5 |  + 3 |  + 2 |  + 1 |  + 2
      8     |   + 8   |  + 4 |  + 3 |  + 2 |    0 |    0 |  + 1
      9     |   + 9   |  + 4 |  + 3 |  + 2 |  + 1 |  + 1 |  + 1
     10     |   + 9   |  + 5 |  + 5 |  + 3 |  + 2 |  + 2 |  + 2
     11     |   + 7   |  + 4 |  + 4 |  + 2 |  + 1 |  + 1 |  + 1
     12     |   + 9   |  + 5 |  + 5 |  + 5 |  + 4 |  + 4 |  + 3
            |         |      |      |      |      |      |
Scleroscope |   80    |  70  |  70  |  62  |  56  |  53  |  52
----------------------------------------------------------------

Had these gages been formed with a plain cylindrical end projecting in front of the screw,
the first two threads would have been prevented from increasing more than the rest. The gages
would then have been fairly easily corrected by lapping after tempering at 220°C. Practically
no lapping would be required if they were tempered at 340°C. There seems to be no advantage
in going to a higher temperature than this. The same degree of hardness could have been obtained
with considerably less distortion by quenching directly in fused salt. It is interesting to
note that when the swelling after water quenching does not exceed 0.0012 in., practically the
whole of it may be recovered by tempering at a sufficiently high temperature, but when the
swelling exceeds this amount the steel assumes a permanently strained condition, and at the
most only 0.0014 in. can be recovered by tempering.

TEMPERING COLORS ON CARBON STEELS

Opinions differ as to the temperature which is indicated by the various colors, or oxides,
which appear on steel in tempering.

The figures shown are from five different sources and while the variations are not great, it
is safer to take the average temperature shown in the last column.

TABLE 25.--COLORS, TEMPERATURES, DEGREES FAHRENHEIT
----------------------------------------------------------
                  | A | B | C | D | E | Average
------------------|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|---------
 Faint yellow     | 430 | 430 | 430 | 430 | 430 |   430
 Light straw      | 475 | 460 | 450 | ... | 450 |   458
 Dark straw       | 500 | 500 | 470 | 450 | 470 |   478
 Purple (reddish) | 525 | 530 | 520 | 530 | 510 |   523
 Purple (bluish)  | ... | 555 | 550 | 550 | 550 |   551
 Blue             | 575 | 585 | 560 | 580 | 560 |   572
 Gray blue        | ... | 600 | ... | 600 | 610 |   603
 Greenish blue    | ... | 625 | ... | ... | 630 |   627
----------------------------------------------------------

TABLE 26.--ANOTHER COLOR TABLE
----------------------------------------------------------
  Degrees   |
 Fahrenheit | High temperatures judged by color
------------|---------------------------------------------
     430    | Very pale yellow \
     460    | Straw-yellow     |
     480    | Dark yellow      |
     500    | Brown-yellow     > Visible in full daylight
     520    | Brown-purple     |
     540    | Full purple      |
     560    | Full blue        |
     600    | Very dark blue   /
     752    | Red heat, visible in the dark
     885    | Red heat, visible in the twilight
     975    | Red heat, visible in the daylight
   1,292    | Dark red
   1,652    | Cherry-red
   1,832    | Bright cherry-red
   2,012    | Orange-red
   2,192    | Orange-yellow
   2,372    | Yellow-white
   2,552    | White welding heat
   2,732    | Brilliant white
   2,912    | Dazzling white (bluish-white)
----------------------------------------------------------

These differences might easily be due to the difference in the light at the time the colors
were observed. It must also be remembered that even a thin coating of oil will make quite a
difference and cause confusion. It is these possible sources of error, coupled with the ever
present chance of human error, that makes it advisable to draw the temper of tools in an oil
bath heated to the proper temperature as shown by an accurate high-temperature thermometer.

Another table, by Gilbert and Barker, runs to much higher temperatures. Beyond 2,200°, however,
the eye is very uncertain.

TABLE 26.--COLORS FOR TEMPERING TOOLS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Approximate |
   color and  |                   Kind of tool
  temperature |
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
   Yellow     | Thread chasers, hollow mills (solid type) twist drills
 430 to 450°F.| centering tools, forming tools, cut-off tools, profile
              | cutters, milling cutters, reamers, dies, etc.
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
 Straw-yellow | Thread rolling dies, counterbores, countersinks. Shear
    460°F.    | blades, boring tools, engraving tools, etc.
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
 Brown-yellow | Taps, Thread dies, cutters, reamers, etc.
    500°F.    |
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
 Light purple | Taps, dies, rock drills, knives, punches, gages, etc.
    530°F.    |
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
 Dark purple  | Circular saws for metal, augers, dental and surgical
    550°F.    | instruments, cold chisels, axes.
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
  Pale blue   | Bone saws, chisels, needles, cutters, etc.
    580°F.    |
--------------|--------------------------------------------------------
    Blue      | Hack saws, wood saws, springs, etc.
    600°F.    |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER X

HIGH-SPEED STEEL

For centuries the secret art of making tool steel was handed down from father to son. The manufacture
of tool steel is still an art which, by the aid of science, has lost much of its secrecy; yet
tool steel is today made by practical men skilled as melters, hammer-men, and rollers, each
knowing his art. These practical men willingly accept guidance from the chemist and metallurgists.

A knowledge of conditions existing today in the manufacture of high-speed steel is essential
to steel treaters. It is well for the manufacturer to have steel treaters understand some of
his troubles and difficulties, so that they will better comprehend the necessity of certain
trade customs and practices, and, realizing the manufacturer's desire to cooperate with them,
will reciprocate.

The manufacturer of high-speed steel knows and appreciates the troubles and difficulties that
may sometimes arise in the heat-treating of his product. His aim is to make a uniform steel
that will best meet the requirements of the average machine shop on general work, and at the
same time allow the widest variation in heat treatment to give desired results.

High speed steel is one of the most complex alloys known. A representative steel contains approximately
24 per cent of alloying metals, namely, tungsten, chromium, vanadium, silicon, manganese, and
in addition there is often found cobalt, molybdenum, uranium, nickel, tin, copper and arsenic.

STANDARD ANALYSIS

The selection of a standard analysis by the manufacturer is the result of a series of compromises
between various properties imparted to the steel by the addition of different elements and
there is a wide range of chemical analyses of various brands. The steel, to be within the range
of generally accepted analysis, should contain over 16 per cent and under 20 per cent tungsten;
if of lower tungsten content it should carry proportionately more chromium and vanadium.

The combined action of tungsten and chromium in steel gives to it the remarkable property of
maintaining its cutting edge at relatively high temperature. This property is commonly spoken
of as "red-hardness." The percentages of tungsten and chromium present should bear a definite
relationship to each other. Chromium imparts to steel a hardening property similar to that
given by carbon, although to a less degree. The hardness imparted to steel by chromium is accompanied
by brittleness. The chromium content should be between 3.5 and 5 per cent.

Vanadium was first introduced in high-speed steel as a "scavenger," thereby producing a more
homogeneous product, of greater density and physical strength. It soon became evident that
vanadium used in larger quantities than necessary as a scavenger imparted to the steel a much
greater cutting efficiency. Recently, no less an authority than Prof. J. O. Arnold, of the
University of Sheffield, England, stated that "high-speed steels containing vanadium have a
mean efficiency of 108.9, as against a mean efficiency of 61.9 obtained from those without
vanadium content." A wide range of vanadium content in steel, from 0.5 to 1.5 per cent, is
permissible.

An ideal analysis for high-speed steel containing 18 per cent tungsten is a chromium content
of approximately 3.85 per cent; vanadium, 0.85 to 1.10 per cent, and carbon, between 0.62 and
0.77 per cent.

DETRIMENTAL ELEMENTS.--Sulphur and phosphorus are two elements known to be detrimental to all
steels. Sulphur causes "red-shortness" and phosphorus causes "cold-shortness." The detrimental
effects of these two elements counteract each other to some extent but the content should be
not over 0.02 sulphur and 0.025 phosphorus. The serious detrimental effect of small quantities
of sulphur and phosphorus is due to their not being uniformly distributed, owing to their tendency
to segregate.

The manganese and silicon contents are relatively unimportant in the percentages usually found
in high-speed steel.

The detrimental effects of tin, copper and arsenic are not generally realized by the trade.
Small quantities of these impurities are exceedingly harmful. These elements are very seldom
determined in customers' chemical laboratories and it is somewhat difficult for public chemists
to analyze for them.

In justice to the manufacturer, attention should be called to the variations in chemical analyses
among the best of laboratories. Generally speaking, a steel works' laboratory will obtain results
more nearly true and accurate than is possible with a customer's laboratory, or by a public
chemist. This can reasonably be expected, for the steel works' chemist is a specialist, analyzing
the same material for the same elements day in and day out.

The importance of the chemical laboratory to a tool-steel plant cannot be over-estimated. Every
heat of steel is analyzed for each element, and check analyses obtained; also, every substance
used in the mix is analyzed for all impurities. The importance of using pure base materials
is known to all manufacturers despite chemical evidence that certain detrimental elements are
removed in the process of manufacture.

The manufacture of high-speed steel represents the highest art in the making of steel by tool-steel
practice. Some may say, on account of our increased knowledge of chemistry and metallurgy,
that the making of such steel has ceased to be an art, but has become a science. It is, in
fact an art; aided by science. The human element in its manufacture is a decided factor, as
will be brought in the following remarks:

The heat treatment of steel in its broad aspect may be said to commence with the melting furnace
and end with the hardening and tempering of the finished product. High-speed steel is melted
by two general types of furnace, known as crucible and electric. Steel treaters, however, are
more vitally interested in the changes that take place in the steel during the various processes
of manufacture rather than a detailed description of those processes, which are more or less
familiar to all.

In order that good high-speed steel may be furnished in finished bars, it must be of correct
chemical analysis, properly melted and cast into solid ingots, free from blow-holes and surface
defects. Sudden changes of temperature are to be guarded against at every stage of its manufacture
and subsequent treatment. The ingots are relatively weak, and the tendency to crack due to
cooling strains is great. For this reason the hot ingots are not allowed to cool quickly, but
are placed in furnaces which are of about the same temperature and are allowed to cool gradually
before being placed in stock. Good steel can be made only from good ingots.

Steel treaters should be more vitally interested in the important changes which take place
in high-speed steel during the hammering operations than that of any other working the steel
receives in the course of its manufacture.

QUALITY AND STRUCTURE

The quality of high-speed steel is dependent to a very great extent upon its structure. The
making of the structure begins under the hammer, and the beneficial effects produced in this
stage persist through the subsequent operations, provided they are properly carried out. The
massive carbides and tungstides present in the ingot are broken down and uniformly distributed
throughout the billet.

To accomplish this the reduction in area must be sufficient and the hammer blows should be
heavy, so as to carry the compression into the center of the billet; otherwise, undesirable
characteristics such as coarse structure and carbide envelopes will exist and cause the steel
treater much trouble. Surface defects invisible in the ingot may be opened up under the hammering
operation, in which event they are chipped from the hot billet.

Ingots are first hammered into billets. These billets are carefully inspected and all surface
defects ground or chipped. The hammered billets are again slowly heated and receive a second
hammering, known as "cogging." The billet resulting therefrom is known as a "cogged" billet
and is of the proper size for the rolling mill or for the finishing hammer.

Although it is not considered good mill practice, some manufacturers who have a large rolling
mill perform the very important cogging operation in the rolling mill instead of under the
hammer. Cogging in a rolling mill does not break up and distribute the carbides and tungstides
as efficiently as cogging under the hammer; another objection to cogging in the rolling mill
is that there is no opportunity to chip surface defects developed as they can be under the
trained eye of a hammer-man, thereby eliminating such defects in the finished billet.

The rolling of high-speed steel is an art known to very few. The various factors governing
the proper rolling are so numerous that it is necessary for each individual rolling mill to
work out a practice that gives the best results upon the particular analysis of steel it makes.
Important elements entering into the rolling are the heating and finishing temperatures, draft,
and speed of the mill. In all of these the element of time must be considered.

High-speed steel should be delivered from the rolling mill to the annealing department free
from scale, for scale promotes the formation of a decarbonized surface. In preparation of bars
for annealing, they are packed in tubes with a mixture of charcoal, lime, and other material.
The tubes are sealed and placed in the annealing furnace and the temperature is gradually raised
to about 1,650°F., and held there for a sufficient length of time, depending upon the size
of the bars. After very slow cooling the bars are removed from the tubes. They should then
show a Brinnell number of between 235 and 275.

The inspection department ranks with the chemical and metallurgical departments in safeguarding
the quality of the product. It inspects all finished material from the standpoint of surface
defects, hardness, size and fracture. It rejects such steel as is judged not to meet the manufacturer's
standard. The inspection and metallurgical departments work hand in hand, and if any department
is not functioning properly it will soon become evident to the inspectors, enabling the management
to remedy the trouble.

The successful manufacture of high-speed steel can only be obtained by those companies who
have become specialists. The art and skill necessary in the successful working of such steel
can be attained only by a man of natural ability in his chosen trade, and trained under the
supervision of experts. To become an expert operator in any department of its manufacture,
it is necessary that the operator work almost exclusively in the production of such steel.

As to the heat treatment, it is customary for the manufacturer to recommend to the user a procedure
that will give to his steel a high degree of cutting efficiency. The recommendations of the
manufacturer should be conservative, embracing fairly wide limits, as the tendency of the user
is to adhere very closely to the manufacturer's recommendations. Unless one of the manufacturer's
expert service men has made a detailed study of the customer's problem, the manufacturer is
not justified in laying down set rules, for if the customer does a little experimenting he
can probably modify the practice so as to produce results that are particularly well adapted
to his line of work.

The purpose of heat-treating is to produce a tool that will cut so as to give maximum productive
efficiency. This cutting efficiency depends upon the thermal stability of the complex hardenites
existing in the hardened and tempered steel. The writer finds it extremely difficult to convey
the meaning of the word "hardenite" to those that do not have a clear conception of the term.
The complex hardenites in high-speed steel may be described as that form of solid solution
which gives to it its cutting efficiency. The complex hardenites are produced by heating the
steel to a very high temperature, near the melting point, which throws into solution carbides
and tungstides, provided they have been properly broken up in the hammering process and uniformly
distributed throughout the steel. By quenching the steel at correct temperature this solid
solution is retained at atmospheric temperature.

It is not the intention to make any definite recommendations as to heat-treating of high-speed
steel by the users. It is recognized that such steel can be heat-treated to give satisfactory
results by different methods. It is, however, believed that the American practice of hardening
and tempering is becoming more uniform. This is due largely to the exchange of opinions in
meetings and elsewhere. The trend of American practice for hardening is toward the following:

First, slowly and carefully preheat the tool to a temperature of approximately 1,500°F., taking
care to prevent the formation of excessive scale.

Second, transfer to a furnace, the temperature of which is approximately 2,250 to 2,400°F.,
and allow to remain in the furnace until the tool is heated uniformly to the above temperature.

Third, cool rapidly in oil, dry air blast, or lead bath.

Fourth, draw back to a temperature to meet the physical requirements of the tool, and allow
to cool in air.

It was not very long ago that the desirability of drawing hardened high-speed steel to a temperature
of 1,100° was pointed out, and it is indeed encouraging to learn that comparatively few treaters
have failed to make use of this fact. Many treaters at first contended that the steel would
be soft after drawing to this temperature and it is only recently, since numerous actual tests
have demonstrated its value, that the old prejudice has been eliminated.

High-speed steel should be delivered only in the annealed condition because annealing relieves
the internal strains inevitable in the manufacture and puts it in vastly improved physical
condition. The manufacturer's inspection after annealing also discloses defects not visible
in the unannealed state.

The only true test for a brand of high-speed steel is the service that it gives by continued
performance month in and month out under actual shop conditions. The average buyer is not justified
in conducting a test, but can well continue to purchase his requirements from a reputable manufacturer
of a brand that is nationally known. The manufacturer is always willing to cooperate with the
trade in the conducting of a test and is much interested in the information received from a
well conducted test. A test, to be valuable, should be conducted in a manner as nearly approaching
actual working conditions in the plant in which the test is made as is practical. In conducting
a test a few reputable brands should be allowed to enter. All tools entered should be of exactly
the same size and shape. There is much difference of opinion as to the best practical method
of conducting a test, and the decision as to how the test should be conducted should be left
to the customer, who should cooperate with the manufacturers in devising a test which would
give the best basis for conclusions as to how the particular brands would perform under actual
shop conditions.

The value of the file test depends upon the quality of the file and the intelligence and experience
of the person using it. The file test is not reliable, but in the hands of an experienced operator,
gives some valuable information. Almost every steel treater knows of numerous instances where
a lathe tool which could be touched with a file has shown wonderful results as to cutting efficiency.

Modern tool-steel practice has changed from that of the past, not by the use of labor-saving
machinery, but by the use of scientific devices which aid and guide the skilled craftsman in
producing a steel of higher quality and greater uniformity. It is upon the intelligence, experience,
and skill of the individual that quality of tool steel depends.

HARDENING HIGH-SPEED STEELS

We will now take up the matter of hardening high-speed steels. The most ordinary tools used
are for lathes and planers. The forging should be done at carbon-steel heat. Rough-grind while
still hot and preheat to about carbon-steel hardening heat, then heat quickly in high-speed
furnace to white heat, and quench in oil. If a very hard substance is to be cut, the point
of tool may be quenched in kerosene or water and when nearly black, finish cooling in oil.
Tempering must be done to suit the material to be cut. For cutting cast iron, brass castings,
or hard steel, tempering should be done merely to take strains out of steel.

On ordinary machinery steel or nickel steel the temper can be drawn to a dark blue or up to
900°F. If the tool is of a special form or character, the risk of melting or scaling the point
cannot be taken. In these cases the tool should be packed, but if there is no packing equipment,
a tool can be heated to as high heat as is safe without risk to cutting edges, and cyanide
or prussiate of potash can be sprinkled over the face and then quenched in oil.

Some very adverse criticism may be heard on this point, but experience has proved that such
tools will stand up very nicely and be perfectly free from scales or pipes. Where packing cannot
be done, milling cutters, and tools to be hardened all over, can be placed in muffled furnace,
brought to 2,220° and quenched in oil. All such tools, however, must be preheated slowly to
1,400 to 1,500° then placed in a high-speed furnace and brought up quickly. Do not soak high-speed
steel at high heats. Quench in oil.

We must bear in mind that the heating furnace is likely to expand tools, therefore provision
must be made to leave extra stock to take care of such expansion. Tools with shanks such as
counter bores, taps, reamers, drills, etc., should be heated no further than they are wanted
hard, and quench in oil. If a forge is not at hand and heating must be done, use a muffle furnace
and cover small shanks with a paste from fire clay or ground asbestos. Hollow mills, spring
threading dies, and large cutting tools with small shanks should have the holes thoroughly
packed or covered with asbestos cement as far as they are wanted soft.

CUTTING-OFF STEEL FROM BAR

To cut a piece from an annealed bar, cut off with a hack saw, milling cutter or circular saw.
Cut clear through the bar; do not nick or break. To cut a piece from an unannealed bar, cut
right off with an abrasive saw; do not nick or break. If of large cross-section, cut off hot
with a chisel by first slowly and uniformly heating the bar, at the point to be cut, to a good
lemon heat, 1,800 to 1,850°F. and cut right off while hot; do not nick or break. Allow the
tool length and bar to cool before reheating for forging.

LATHE AND PLANER TOOLS

FORGING.--Gently warm the steel to remove any chill, is particularly desirable in the winter,
then heat slowly and carefully to a scaling heat, that is a lemon heat (1,800 to 2,000°F.),
and forge uniformly. Reheat the tool for further forging directly the steel begins to stiffen
under the hammer. Under no circumstances forge the steel when the temperature falls below a
dark lemon to an orange color about 1,700°F. Reheat as often as is necessary to finish forging
the tool to shape. Allow the tool to cool after forging by burying the tool in dry ashes or
lime. Do not place on the damp ground or in a draught of air.

The heating for forging should be done preferably in a pipe or muffle furnace but if this is
not convenient use a good clean fire with plenty of fuel between the blast pipe and the tool.
Never allow the tool to soak after the desired forging heat has been reached. Do not heat the
tool further back than is necessary to shape the tool, but give the tool sufficient heat. See
that the back of the tool is flatly dressed to provide proper support under the nose of the tool.

HARDENING HIGH-SPEED STEEL.--Slowly reheat the cutting edge of the tool to a cherry red, 1,400°F.,
then force the blast so as to raise the temperature quickly to a full white heat, 2,200 to
2,250°F., that is, until the tool starts to sweat at the cutting face. Cool the point of the
tool in a dry air blast or preferably in oil, further cool in oil keeping the tool moving until
the tool has become black hot.

To remove hardening strains reheat the tool to from 500 to 1,100°F. Cool in oil or atmosphere.
This second heat treatment adds to the toughness of the tool and therefore to its life.

GRINDING TOOLS.--Grind tools to remove all scale. Use a quick-cutting, dry, abrasive wheel.
If using a wet wheel, be sure to use plenty of water. Do not under any circumstances force
the tool against the wheel so as to draw the color, as this is likely to set up checks on the
surface of the tool to its detriment.

FOR MILLING CUTTERS AND FORMED TOOLS

FORGING.--Forge as before.--ANNEALING.--Place the steel in a pipe, box or muffle. Arrange the
steel so as to allow at least 1 in. of packing, consisting of dry powder ashes, powdered charcoal,
mica, etc., between the pieces and the walls of the box or pipe. If using a pipe close the
ends. Heat slowly and uniformly to a cherry red, 1,375 to 1,450°F. according to size. Hold
the steel at this temperature until the heat has thoroughly saturated through the metal, then
allow the muffle box and tools to cool very slowly in a dying furnace or remove the muffle
with its charge and bury in hot ashes or lime. The slower the cooling the softer the steel.

The heating requires from 2 to 10 hr. depending upon the size of the piece.

HARDENING AND TEMPERING.--It is preferable to use two furnaces when hardening milling cutters
and special shape tools. One furnace should be maintained at a uniform temperature from 1,375
to 1,450°F. while the other should be maintained at about 2,250°F. Keep the tool to be hardened
in the low temperature furnace until the tool has attained the full heat of this furnace. A
short time should be allowed so as to be assured that the center of the tool is as hot as the
outside. Then quickly remove the tool from this preheating furnace to the full heat furnace.
Keep the tool in this furnace only as long as is necessary for the tool to attain the full
temperature of this furnace. Then quickly remove and quench in oil or in a dry air blast. Remove
before the tool is entirely cold and draw the temper in an oil bath by raising the temperature
of the oil to from 500 to 750°F. and allow this tool to remain, at this temperature, in the
bath for at least 30 min., insuring uniformity of temper; then cool in the bath, atmosphere or oil.

If higher drawing temperatures are desired than those possible with oil, a salt bath can be
used. A very excellent bath is made by mixing two parts by weight of crude potassium nitrate
and three parts crude sodium nitrate. These will melt at about 450°F. and can be used up to
1,000°F. Before heating the steel in the salt bath, slowly preheat, preferably in oil. Reheating
the hardened high-speed steel to 1,000°F. will materially increase the life of lathe tools,
but milling and form cutters, taps, dies, etc., should not be reheated higher than 500 to 650°F.,
unless extreme hardness is required, when 1,100 to 1,000°F., will give the hardest edge.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR WORKING HIGH-SPEED STEEL

Owing to the wide variations in the composition of high-speed steels by various makers, it
is always advisable to follow the directions of each when using his brand of steel. In the
absence of specific directions the following general suggestions from several makers will be
found helpful.

The Firth-Sterling Steel Company say:

INSTEAD OF PRINTING ANY RULES ON THE HARDENING AND TEMPERING OF FIRTH-STERLING STEELS WE WISH
TO SAY TO OUR CUSTOMERS: TRUST THE STEEL TO THE SKILL AND THE JUDGEMENT OF YOUR TOOLSMITH AND
TOOL TEMPERER.

The steel workers of today know by personal experience and by inheritance all the standard
rules and theories on forging, hardening and tempering of all fine tool steels. They know the
importance of slow, uniform heating, and the danger of overheating some steels, and underheating
others.

The tempering of tools and dies is a science taught by heat, muscle and brains.

The tool temperer is the man to hold responsible for results. The tempering of tools has been
his life work. He may find suggestions on the following pages interesting, but we are always
ready to trust the treatment of our steels to the experienced man at the fire.

HEAT TREATMENT OF LATHE, PLANER AND SIMILAR TOOLS

FIRE.--For these tools a good fire is one made of hard foundry coke, broken in small pieces,
in an ordinary blacksmith forge with a few bricks laid over the top to form a hollow fire.
The bricks should be thoroughly heated before tools are heated. Hard coal may be used very
successfully in place of hard coke and will give a higher heat. It is very easy to give Blue
Chip the proper heat if care is used in making up the fire.

FORGING.--Heat slowly and uniformly to a good forging heat. Do not hammer the steel after it
cools below a bright red. Avoid as much as possible heating the body of the tool, so as to
retain the natural toughness in the neck of the tool.

HARDENING.--Heat the point of the tool to an extreme white heat (about 2,200°F.) until the
flux runs. This heat should be the highest possible short of melting the point. Care should
be taken to confine the heat as near to the point as possible so as to leave the annealing
and consequent toughness in the neck of the tool and where the tool is held in the tool post.

COOL in an air blast, the open air or in oil, depending upon the tools or the work they are to do.

For roughing tools temper need not be drawn except for work where the edge tends to crumble
on account of being too hard.

For finishing tools draw the temper to suit the purpose for which they are to be used.

GRIND thoroughly on dry wheel (or wet wheel if care is used to prevent checking).

HEAT TREATMENT OF MILLING CUTTERS, DRILLS, REAMERS, ETC.

THE FIRE.--Gas and electric furnaces designed for high heats are now made for treating high-speed
steels. We recommend them for treating all kinds of Blue Chip tools and particularly the above
class. After tools reach a yellow heat in the forge fire they must not be allowed to touch
the fuel or come in contact with the blast or surrounding air.

HEATING.--Tools of this kind should be heated to a mellow white heat, or as hot as possible
without injuring the cutting edges (2,000 to 2,200°F.). For most work the higher the heat the
better the tool. Where furnaces are used, we recommend preheating the tools to a red heat in
one furnace before putting them in a white hot furnace.

COOLING.--We recommend quenching all of the above tools in oil when taken from the fire. We
have found fish oil, cottonseed oil, Houghton's No. 2 soluble oil and linseed oil satisfactory.
The high heat is the important thing in hardening Blue Chip tools. If a white hot tool is allowed
to cool in the open air it will be hard, but the air scales the tool.

DRAWING THE TEMPER.--Tools of this class should be drawn considerably more than water-hardening
steel for the same purpose.

HEAT TREATMENT OF PUNCHES AND DIES, SHEARS, TAPS, ETC.

HEATING.--The degree to which tools of the above classes should be heated depends upon the
shape, size and use for which they are intended. Generally, they should not be heated to quite
as high a heat as lathe tools or milling cutters. They should have a high heat, but not enough
to make the flux run on the steel (by pyrometer 1,900 to 2,100°F.).

COOLING.--Depending on the tools, some should be dipped in oil all over, some only part way,
and others allowed to cool down in the air naturally, or under air blast. In cooling, the toughness
is retained by allowing some parts to cool slowly and quenching parts that should be hard.

DRAWING THE TEMPER.--As in cooling, some parts of these tools will require more drawing than
others, but, on the whole, they must be drawn more than water hardening tools for the same
purpose or to about 500°F. all over, so that a good file will just "touch" the cutting or working
parts.

BARIUM CHLORIDE PROCESS.--This is a process developed for treating certain classes of tools,
such as taps, forming tools, etc. It is being successfully used in many large plants. Briefly
the treatment is as follows:

In this treatment the tools are first preheated to a red heat, but small tools may be immersed
without preheating. The barium chloride bath is kept at a temperature of from 2,000 to 2,100°F.,
and tools are held in it long enough to reach the same temperature. They are then dipped in
oil. The barium chloride which adheres to the tools is brushed off, leaving the tools as dean
as before heating.

A CHROMIUM-COBALT STEEL

The Latrobe Steel Company make a high-speed steel without tungsten, its red-hardness properties
depending on chromium and cobalt instead of tungsten. It is known as P. R. K-33 steel. It does
not require the high temperature of the tungsten steels, hardening at 1,830 to 1,850°F. instead
of 2,200° or even higher, as with the tungsten.

This steel is forged at 1,900 to 2,000°F. and must not be worked at a lower temperature than
1,600°F. It requires soaking in the fire more than the tungsten steels. It can be normalized
by heating slowly and thoroughly to 1,475°F., holding this for from 10 to 20 min. according
to the size of the piece and cooling in the open air, protected from drafts.

A peculiarity of this steel is that it becomes non-magnetic at or above 1,960°F. and the magnetic
quality is not restored by cooling. Normalizing as above, however, restores the magnetic qualities.
This enables the user to detect any tools which have been overheated, with a horseshoe magnet.

It is sometimes advantageous to dip tools, before heating for hardening, in ordinary fuel or
quenching oil. The oil leaves a thin film of carbon which tends to prevent decarbonization,
giving a very hard surface.

For other makes of high-speed steel used in lathe and planer tools the makers recommend that
the tools be cut from the bar with a hack saw or else heated and cut with a chisel. The heating
should be very slow until the steel reaches a red after which it can be heated more rapidly
and should only be forged at a high heat. It can be forged at very high heats but care should
be taken not to forge at a low heat. The heating should be uniform and penetrate clear to the
center of the bar before forging is begun. Reheat as often as necessary to forge at the proper
heat.

After forging cool in lime before attempting to harden. Do not attempt to harden with the forging
heat as was sometimes done with the carbon tools.

For hardening forged tools, heat slowly up to a bright red and then rapidly until the point
of the tool is almost at a melting heat. Cool in a blast of cold, dry air. For large sizes
of steel, cool in linseed oil or in fish oil as is most convenient. If the tools are to be
used for finishing cuts heat to a bright yellow and quench in oil. Grind for use on a sand
wheel or grindstone in preference to an emery or an artificial abrasive wheel.

For hardening milling and similar cutters, preheat to a bright red, place the cutter on a round
bar of suitable size, and revolve it quickly over a very hot fire. Heat as high as possible
without melting the points of the teeth and cool in a cold blast of dry air or in fish oil.

Light fragile cutters, twist drills, taps and formed cutters may be heated almost white and
then dipped in fish oil for hardening. Where possible it is better to give an even higher heat
and cool in the blast of cold, dry air as previously recommended.

SUGGESTIONS FOR HANDLING HIGH-SPEED STEELS

The following suggestions for handling high-speed steels are given by a maker whose steel is
probably typical of a number of different makes, so that they will be found useful in other
cases as well. These include hints as to forging as well as hardening, together with a list
of "dont's" which are often very useful. This applies to forging, hardening of lathe, slotting,
planing and all similar tools.

HARDENING HIGH-SPEED STEEL

In forging use coke for fuel in the forge. Heat steel slowly and thoroughly to a lemon heat.
Do not forge at a lower heat. Do not let the steel cool below a bright cherry red while forging.
After the tool is dressed, reheat to forging heat to remove the forging strain, and lay on
the floor until cold. Then have the tool rough ground on a dry emery wheel.

For built-up and bent tools special care should be taken that the forging heat does not go
below a bright cherry. For tools 3/4 by 1-1/2 or larger where there is a big strain in forging,
such as bending at angles of about 45 deg. and building the tools up, they should be heated
to at least 1,700°F. Slowly and without much blast. For a 3/4 by 1-1/2 tool it should take
about 10 min. with the correct blast in a coke fire. Larger tools in proportion. They can then
be bent readily, but no attempt should be made to forge the steel further without reheating
to maintain the bright cherry red. This is essential, as otherwise the tools crack in hardening
or while in use.

In hardening place the tool in a coke fire (hollow fire if possible) with a slow blast and
heat gradually up to a white welding heat on the nose of the tool. Then dip the white hot part
only into thin oil or hold in a strong cold air blast. When hardening in oil do not hold the
tool in one place but keep it moving so that it cools as quickly as possible. It is not necessary
to draw the temper after hardening these tools.

In grinding all tools should be ground as lightly as possible on a soft wet sandstone or on
a wet emery wheel, and care should be taken not to create any surface cracks, which are invariably
the result of grinding too forcibly. The foregoing illustrations, Figs. 84 to 91, with their
captions, will be found helpful.

Special points of caution to be observed when hardening high-speed steel.

DON'T use a green coal fire; use coke, or build a hollow fire.

DON'T have the bed of the fire free from coal.

DON'T hurry the heating for forging. The heating has to be done very slowly and the forging
heat has to be kept very high (a full lemon color) heat and the tool has to be continually
brought back into the fire to keep the high heat up. When customers complain about seams and
cracks, in 9 cases out of 10, this has been caused by too low a forging heat, and when the
blacksmith complains about tools cracking, it is necessary to read this paragraph to him.

DON'T try to jam the tool into shape under a steam hammer with one or two blows; take easy
blows and keep the heat high.

DON'T have the tool curved at the bottom; it must lie perfectly flat in the tool post.

DON'T harden from your forging heat; let the tool grow cold or fairly cold. After forging you
can rough grind the tool dry, but not too forcibly.

DON'T, for hardening, get more than the nose white hot.

DON'T get the white heat on the surface only.

DON'T hurry your heating for hardening; let the heat soak thoroughly through the nose of the tool.

DON'T melt the nose of the tool.

DON'T, as a rule, dip the nose into water; this should be done only for extremely hard material.
It is dangerous to put the nose into water for fear of cracking and when you do put the nose
into water put just 1/2 in. only of the extreme white hot part into the water and don't keep
it too long in the water; just a few seconds, and then harden in oil. We do not recommend water
hardening.

DON'T grind too forcibly.

DON'T grind dry after hardening.

DON'T discolor the steel in grinding.

DON'T give too much clearance on tools for cutting cast iron.

DON'T start on cast iron with a razor edge on the tool. Take an oil stone and wipe three or
four times over the razor edge.

DON'T use tool holder steel from bars without hardening the nose of each individual tool bit.

AIR-HARDENING STEELS.--These steels are recommended for boring, turning and planing where the
cost of high-speed seems excessive. They are also recommended for hard wood knives, for roughing
and finishing bronze and brass, and for hot bolt forging dies. This steel cannot be cut or
punched cold but can be shaped and ground on abrasive wheels of various kinds.

It should be heated slowly and evenly for forging and kept as evenly heated at a bright red
as possible. It should not be forged after it cools to a dark red.

After the tool is made, heat it again to a bright red and lay it down to cool in a dry place
or it can be cooled in a cold, dry air blast. Water must be kept away from it while it is hot.

CHAPTER XI

FURNACES

There are so many standard furnaces now on the market that it is not necessary to go into details
of their design and construction and only a few will be illustrated. Oil, gas and coal or coke
are most common but there is a steady growth of the use of electric furnaces.

TYPICAL OIL-FIRED FURNACES.--Several types of standard oil-fired furnaces are shown herewith.
Figure 92 is a lead pot furnace, Fig. 93 is a vertical furnace with a center column. This column
reduces the cubical contents to be heated and also supports the cover.

A small tool furnace is shown in Fig. 94, which gives the construction and heat circulation.
A larger furnace for high-speed steel is given in Fig. 95. The steel is supported above the
heat, the lower flame passing beneath the support.

For hardening broaches and long reamers and taps, the furnace shown in Fig. 96 is used. Twelve
jets are used, these coming in radially to produce a whirling motion.

Oil and gas furnaces may be divided into three types: the open heating chamber in which combustion
takes place in the chamber and directly over the stock; the semimuffle heating chamber in which
combustion takes place beneath the floor of the chamber from which the hot gases pass into
the chamber through suitable openings; and the muffle heating chamber in which the heat entirely
surrounds the chamber but does not enter it. The open furnace is used for forging, tool dressing
and welding. The muffle furnace is used for hardening dies, taps, cutters and similar tools
of either carbon or high-speed steel. The muffle furnace is for spring hardening, enameling,
assaying and work where the gases of combustion may have an injurious effect on the material.

Furnaces of these types of oil-burning furnaces are shown in Figs. 97, 98, and 99; these being
made by the Gilbert & Barker Manufacturing Company. The first has an air curtain formed by
jets from the large pipe just below the opening, to protect the operator from heat.

Oil furnaces are also made for both high- and low-pressure air, each having its advocates.
The same people also make gas-fired furnaces.

Several types of furnaces for various purposes are illustrated in Fig. 100 and 101. The first
is a gas-fired hardening furnace of the surface-combustion type.

A large gas-fired annealing furnace of the Maxon system is shown in Fig. 101. This is large
enough for a flat car to be run into as can be seen. It shows the arrangement of the burners,
the track for the car and the way in which it fits into the furnace. These are from the designs
of the Industrial Furnace Corporation.

Before deciding upon the use of gas or oil, all sides of the problem should be considered.
Gas is perhaps the nearest ideal but is as a rule more expensive. The tables compiled by the
Gilbert & Barker Manufacturing Company and shown herewith, may help in deciding the question.

TABLE 27.--SHOWING COMPARISON OF OIL FUEL WITH VARIOUS GASEOUS FUELS
                                     Heat units
                                    per thousand
                                     cubic feet
  Natural gas                         1,000,000
  Air gas (gas machine) 20 cp           815,500
  Public illuminating gas, average      650,000
  Water gas (from bituminous coal)      377,000
  Water and producer gas, mixed         175,000
  Producer gas                          150,000

Since a gallon of fuel oil (7 lb.) contains 133,000 heat units, the following comparisons may
evidently be made. At 5 cts. a gallon, the equivalent heat units in oil would equal:

                                     Per thousand
                                      cubic feet
  Natural gas                         at $0.375
  Air gas, 20 cp                      at  0.307
  Public illuminating gas, average    at  0.244
  Water gas (from bituminous coal)    at  0.142
  Water and producer gas, mixed       at  0.065
  Producer gas                        at  0.057

Comparing oil and coal is not always simple as it depends on the work to be done and the construction
of the furnaces. The variation rises from 75 to 200 gal. of oil to a ton of coal. For forging
and similar work it is probably safe to consider 100 gal. of oil as equivalent to a ton of coal.

Then there is the saving of labor in handling both coal and ashes, the waiting for fires to
come up, the banking of fires and the dirt and nuisance generally. The continuous operation
possible with oil adds to the output.

When comparing oil and gas it is generally considered that 4-1/2 gal. of fuel oil will give
heat equivalent to 1,000 cu. ft. of coal gas.

The pressure of oil and air used varies with the system installed. The low-pressure system
maintains a pressure of about 8 oz. on the oil and draws in free air for combustion. Others
use a pressure of several pounds, while gas burners use an average of perhaps 1-1/2 lb. of
air to give best results.

The weights and volumes of solid fuels are: Anthracite coal, 55 to 65 lb. per cubic foot or
34 to 41 cubic feet per ton; bituminous coal, 50 to 55 lb. per cubic foot or 41 to 45 cubic
feet per ton; coke, 28 lb. per cubic foot or 80 cubic feet per ton--the ton being calculated
as 2,240 lb. in each case.

A novel carburizing furnace that is being used by a number of people, is built after the plan
of a fireless cooker. The walls of the furnace are extra heavy, and the ports and flues are
so arranged that when the load in the furnace and the furnace is thoroughly heated, the burners
are shut off and all openings are tightly sealed. The carburization then goes on for several
hours before the furnace is cooled below the effective carburizing range, securing an ideal
diffusion of carbon between the case and the core of the steel being carburized. This is particularly
adaptable where simple steel is used.

PROTECTIVE SCREENS FOR FURNACES

Workmen needlessly exposed to the flames, heat and glare from furnaces where high temperatures
are maintained suffer in health as well as in bodily discomfort. This shows several types of
shields designed for the maximum protection of the furnace worker.

Bad conditions are not necessary; in almost every case means of relief can be found by one
earnestly seeking them. The larger forge shops have adopted flame shields for the majority
of their furnaces. Years ago the industrial furnaces (particularly of the oil-burning variety)
were without shields, but the later models are all shield-equipped. These shields are adapted
to all of the more modern, heat-treating furnaces, as well as to those furnaces in use for
working forges; and attention should be paid to their use on the former type since the heat-treating
furnaces are constantly becoming more numerous as manufacturers find need of them in the many
phases of munitions making or similar work.

The heat that the worker about these furnaces must face may be divided in general into two
classes: there is first that heat due to the flame and hot gases that the blast in the furnaces
forces out onto a man's body and face. In the majority of furnaces this is by far the most
discomforting, and care must be taken to fend it and turn it behind a suitable shield. The
second class is the radiant heat, discharged as light from the glowing interior of the furnace.
This is the lesser of the two evils so far as general forging furnaces are concerned, but it
becomes the predominating feature in furnaces of large door area such as in the usual case-hardening
furnaces. Here the amount of heat discharged is often almost unbearable even for a moment.
This heat can be taken care of by interposing suitable, opaque shields that will temporarily
absorb it without being destroyed by it, or becoming incandescent. Should such shields be so
constructed as to close off all of the heat, it might be impossible to work around the furnace
for the removal of its contents, but they can be made movable, and in such a manner as to shield
the major portion of the worker's body.

First taking up the question of flame shields, the illustration, Fig. 102, is a typical installation
that shows the main features for application to a forging machine or drop-hammer, oil-burning
furnace, or for an arched-over, coal furnace where the flame blows out the front. This shield
consists of a frame covered with sheet metal and held by brackets about 6 in. in front of the
furnace. It will be noted that slotted holes make this frame adjustable for height, and it
should be lowered as far as possible when in use, so that the work may just pass under it and
into the furnace openings.

Immediately below the furnace openings, and close to the furnace frame will be noted a blast
pipe carrying air from the forge-shop fan. This has a row of small holes drilled in its upper
side for the entire length, and these direct a curtain of cold air vertically across the furnace
openings, forcing all of the flame, or a greater portion of it, to rise behind the shield.
Since the shield extends above the furnace top there is no escape for this flame until it has
passed high enough to be of no further discomfort to the workman.

In this case fan-blast air is used for cooling, and this is cheaper and more satisfactory because
a great volume may be used. However, where high-pressure air is used for atomizing the oil
at the burner, and nothing else is available, this may be employed--though naturally a comparatively
small pipe will be needed, in which minute holes are drilled, else the volume of air used will
be too great for the compressor economically to supply. Steam may also be employed for like
service.

The latest shields of this type are all made double, as illustrated, with an inner sheet of
metal an inch or two inside of the front. In the illustration, A, Fig. 102, this inner sheet
is smaller, but some are now built the same size as the front and bolted to it with pipe spacers
between. The advantage of the double sheet is that the inner one bears the brunt of the flame,
and, if needs be, burns up before the outer; while, if due to a heavy fire it should be heated
red at any point, the outer sheet will still be much cooler and act as an additional shield
to the furnace man.

HEAVY FORGING PRACTICE.--In heavy forging practice where the metal is being worked at a welding
heat, the amount of flame that will issue from an open-front furnace is so great that a plain,
sheet-steel front will neither afford sufficient protection nor stand up in service. For such
a place a water-cooled front is often used. The general type of this front is illustrated in
Fig. 103, and appears to have found considerable favor, for numbers of its kind are scattered
throughout the country.

In this case the shield is placed at a slight angle from the vertical, and along the top edge
is a water pipe with a row of small holes through which sprays of water are thrown against
it. This water runs down in a thin sheet over the shield, cooling it, and is collected in a
trough connected with a run-off pipe at the bottom. The lower blast-pipe arrangement is similar
to the one first described.

There are several serious objections to this form of shield that should lead to its replacement
by a better type; the first is that with a very hot fire, portions in the center may become
so rapidly heated that the steam generated will part the sheet of water and cause it to flow
from that point in an inverted V, and that section will then quickly become red hot. Another
feature is that after the water and fire are shut down for the night the heat of the furnace
can be great enough to cause serious warping of the surface of the shield so that the water
will no longer cover it in a thin, uniform sheet.

After rigging up a big furnace with a shield of this type several years ago, its most serious
object was found in the increase of the water bill of the plant. This was already of large
proportions, but it had suddenly jumped to the extent of several hundred dollars. Investigation
soon disclosed the fact that this water shield was one of the main causes of the added cost
of water. A little estimating of the amount of water that can flow through a 1/2-in. pipe under
30-lb. pressure, in the course of a day, will show that this amount at 10 cts. per 1,000 gal.,
can count up rather rapidly.

Figure 103 is a section through a portion of the furnace front and shield showing all of the
principal parts. This shield consists essentially of a very thin tank, about 2-1/2 in. between
walls, and filled with water. Like other shields it is fitted with an adjustment, that it may
be raised and lowered as the work demands. The tank having an open top, the water as it absorbs
heat from the flame will simply boil away in steam; and only a small amount will have to be
added to make up for that which has evaporated. The water-feed pipe shown at F ends a short
distance above the top of the tank so that just how much water is running in may readily be seen.

An overflow pipe is provided at O which aids in maintaining the water at the proper height,
as a sufficient quantity can always be permitted to run in, to avoid any possibility of the
shield ever boiling dry; at the same time the small excess can run off without danger of an
overflow. The shield illustrated in Fig. 104 has been in constant use for over two years, giving
greater satisfaction than any other of which the writer has known. It might also be noted that
this shield was made with riveted joints, the shop not having a gas-welding outfit. To flange
over the edges and then weld them with an acetylene torch would be a far more economical procedure,
and would also insure a tight and permanent joint.

The water-cooled front shown in Fig. 105 is an absurd effort to accomplish the design of a
furnace that will provide cool working conditions. This front was on a bolt-heating furnace
using hard coal for fuel; and it may be seen that it takes the place of all of the brickwork
that should be on that side. Had this been nothing more than a very narrow water-cooled frame,
with brickwork below and supporting bricks above, put in like the tuyeres in a foundry cupola,
the case would have been somewhat different, for then it would have absorbed a smaller proportion
of the heat.

A blacksmith who knows how a piece of cold iron laid in a small welding furnace momentarily
lowers the temperature, will appreciate the enormous amount of extra heat that must be maintained
in the central portion of this furnace to make up for the constant chilling effect of the cold
wall. Moreover, since there would have been serious trouble had steam generated in this front,
a steady stream of water had to be run through it constantly to insure against an approach
to the boiling point. This is illustrated because of its absurdity, and as a warning of something
to avoid.

Water-cooled, tuyere openings, as mentioned above, which support brick side-walls of the furnace,
have proved successful for coal furnaces used for forging machine and drop-hammer heating,
since they permit a great amount of work to be handled through their openings without wearing
away as would a brick arch. Great care should be exercised properly to design them so that
a minimum amount of the cold tuyere will be in contact with the interior of the furnace, and
all interior portions possible should be covered by the bricks. However, a discussion of these
points will hardly come in the flame-shield class, although they can be made to do a great
deal toward relieving the excessive heat to be borne by the furnace worker.

FLANGE SHIELDS FOR FURNACES.--Such portable flame shields as the one illustrated in Fig. 106
may prove serviceable before furnaces required for plate work, where the doors are often only
opened for a moment at a time. This shield can be placed far enough in front of the furnace,
that it will be possible to work under it or around it, in removing bulky work from the furnace,
and yet it will afford the furnace tender some relief from the excessive glare that will come
out the wide-opened door. To have this shield of light weight so that it may be readily pushed
aside when not wanted, the frame may be made up of pipe and fittings, and a piece of thin sheet
steel fastened in the panel by rings about the frame.

About the most disagreeable task in a heat-treating shop is the removal of the pots from the
case-hardening furnaces; these must be handled at a bright red heat in order that their contents
may be dumped into the quenching tank with a minimum-time contact with the air, and before
they have cooled sufficiently to require reheating. Facing the heat before the large open doors
of the majority of these furnaces, in a man-killing task even when the weather is moderately
cool. The boxes soon become more or less distorted, and then even the best of lifting devices
will not remove a hot pot without several minutes labor in front of the doors.

In Fig. 107 is shown a method of arranging a shield on one type of charging and removing truck.
This shield cannot afford more than a partial protection to the body of the furnace tender,
because he must be able to see around it, and in some cases even push it partly through the
door of the furnace, but even small as it is it may still afford some welcome protection. The
great advantage in this case of having the shield on the truck instead of stationary in front
of the furnace, is that it still affords protection as long as the hot pot is being handled
through the shop on its way to the quenching tank.

It might be interesting to many engaged in the heat-treating or case hardening of steel parts,
to make a special note of the design of the truck that is illustrated in connection with the
shield; the general form is shown although the actual details for the construction of such
a truck are lacking; these being simple, may be readily worked out by anyone wishing to build
one. This is considered to be one of the quickest and easiest operated devices for the removal
of this class of work from the furnace. To be sure it may only be used where the floor of the
furnace has been built level with the floor of the room, but many of the modern furnaces of
this class are so designed.

The pack-hardening pots are cast with legs, from two to three inches high, to permit the circulation
of the hot gases, and so heat more quickly. Between these legs and under the body of the pot,
the two forward prongs of the truck are pushed, tilting the outer handle to make these prongs
as low as possible. The handle is then lowered and, as it has a good leverage, the pot is easily
raised from the floor, and the truck and its load rolled out.

HEATING OF MANGANESE STEEL.--Another form of heat-treating furnace is that which is used for
the heating of manganese and other alloy steels, which after having been brought to the proper
heat are drawn from the furnace into an immediate quenching tank. With manganese steel in particular,
the parts are so fragile and easily damaged while hot that it is frequent practice to have
a sloping platform immediately in front of the furnace door down which the castings may slide
into a tank below the floor level. Such a furnace with a quenching tank in front of its door
is shown in Fig. 108.

These tanks are covered with plates while charging the furnace and the cold castings are placed
in a moderately cool furnace. Since some of these steels must not be charged into a furnace
where the heat is extreme but should be brought up to their final heat gradually, there is
little discomfort during the charging process. When quenching, however, from a temperature
of 1,800° to 1,900°, it is extremely unpleasant in front of the doors. The swinging shield
is here adapted to give protection for this work. As will be noted it is hung a sufficient
distance in front of the doors, that it may not interfere with the castings as they come from
the furnace, and slide down into the tank.

To facilitate the work, and avoid the necessity of working with the bars outside the edges
of the shield, the slot-like hole is cut in the center of the shield, and through this the
bars or rakes for dragging out the castings are easily inserted and manipulated. The advantage
of such a swinging shield is that it may be readily moved from side to side, or forward and
back as occasion requires.

FURNACE DATA

In order to give definite information concerning furnaces, fuels etc., the following data is
quoted from a paper by Seth A. Moulton and W. H. Lyman before the Steel Heat Treaters Society
in September, 1920.

This considers a factory producing 30,000 lb. of automobile gears per 24 hr. The transmission
gears will be of high-carbon steel and the differential of low-carbon steel, carburized. The
heat-treating equipment required is:

  1. Annealing furnaces      1,400 to 1,600°F.
  2. Carburizing furnaces    1,700 to 1,800°F.
  3. Hardening furnaces      1,450 to 1,550°F.
  4. Drawing furnaces          350 to   950°F.

All of the forging blanks are annealed before machining, about three-quarters of the machined
gears and parts are carburized, all the carburized gears are given a double treatment for core
and case, all gears and parts are hardened and all parts are drawn.

The possible sources of heat supply and their values are as follows:--

  1. Oil                 140,000 B.t.u. per gallon
  2. Natural gas           1,100 B.t.u. per cubic foot
  3. City gas                650 B.t.u. per cubic foot
  4. Water gas               300 B.t.u. per cubic foot
  5. Producer gas            170 B.t.u. per cubic foot
  6. Coal                 12,000 B.t.u. per pound
  7. Electric current      3,412 B.t.u. per kilowatt-hour

For the heat treatment specified only comparatively low temperatures are required. No difficulty
will be experienced in attaining the desired maximum temperature of 1,800°F. with any of the
heating medium above enumerated; but it should be noted that the producer gas with a B.t.u.
content of 170 per cubic foot and the electric current would require specially designed furnaces
to obtain higher temperatures than 1800°F.

TABLE 28.--COMPARATTVE OPERATING COSTS

Assuming
  Cost of oil- and gas-fired furnaces
    installed as                           $100.00 per square foot of hearth
  Cost of coal-fired furnace installed as   150.00 per square foot of hearth
  Cost of electric furnace 100 kw.
    capacity installed as                    90.00 per kilowatt
  Cost of electric furnace 150 kw.
    capacity installed as                    70.00 per kilowatt

Output 3,000 lb. charge, 8 hr. heat carburizing, 2 hr. heating only. Annual service 7,200 hr.
Fixed charges including interest, depreciation, taxes, insurance and maintenance 15 per cent.
Extra operating labor for coal-fired furnace 60 cts. per hour, one man four furnaces.

COST OF VARIOUS TYPES OF FURNACES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 | Class fuel |  Fuel per  | Unit fuel|Installation|Efficiency| Fixed |Cost per
 |            |   charge   |    cost  |    cost    | per cent |charges| charge
-|------------|------------|----------|------------|----------|-------|--------
 |      1     |      2     |     3    |      4     |     5    |   6   |   7
-|------------|------------|----------|------------|----------|-------|--------
Carburizing
-|------------|------------|----------|------------|----------|-------|--------
1|Oil         | 52.0 gal.  |$0.15 gal.| $2,400.00  |   12.6   |  $.40 | $8.20
2|Natural gas |  4.4 M     | 0.50 M   |  2,400.00  |   18.8   |  0.40 |  2.60
3|City gas    |  8.3 M     | 0.80 M   |  2,400.00  |   17.0   |  0.40 |  7.04
4|Water gas   | 18.7 M     | 0.40     |  2,400.00  |   16.4   |  0.40 |  7.88
5|Producer gas| 37.3 M     | 0.10 M   |  2,400.00  |   14.5   |  0.40 |  4.13
6|Coal        |814.0 lb.   | 6.00 ton |  3,600.00  |    9.4   |  0.60 |  3.98
7|Electricity |500.0 kw-hr.| 0.015 kw.|  9,000.00  |   53.0   |  1.50 |  9.00
-|------------|------------|----------|------------|----------|-------|--------
Heating
-|------------|------------|----------|------------|----------|-------|--------
1|Oil         | 30.8 gal.  | 0.15 gal.|  2,400.00  |   21.4   |  0.10 |  4.72
2|Natural gas |  2.61 M    | 0.50 M   |  2,400.00  |   32.0   |  0.10 |  1.40
3|City gas    |  4.9 M     | 0.80 M   |  2,400.00  |   28.8   |  0.10 |  4.02
4|Water gas   | 11.1 M     | 0.40 M   |  2,400.00  |   27.6   |  0.10 |  4.54
5|Producer gas| 22.1 M     | 0.10 M   |  2,400.00  |   24.6   |  0.10 |  2.31
6|Coal        |348.0 lb.   | 6.00 ton |  3,600.00  |   22.0   |  0.15 |  1.38
7|Electricity |329.0 kw-hr.| 0.015 kw.| 10,500.00  |   81.75  |  0.44 |  5.38
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This shows but two of the operations and for a single furnace. The total costs for all operations
on the 30,000 lb. of gears per 24 hr. is shown in Table 29.

TABLE 29.--COMPARATIVE ANNUAL PRODUCTION COSTS FOR 30,000 POUNDS OUTPUT IN 24 HOURS

 ----------------------------------------------------------
  No. |              Equipment              | Installation
      |                                     |     cost
 -----|-------------------------------------|--------------
   1  |                  2                  |       3
      |                                     |
   I  | Oil                                 |  $179,000.00
  II  | Oil and electric                    |   213,000.00
  III | Natural gas                         |   117,000.00
  IV  | (A) Natural gas containing furnaces |   120,000.00
   V  | Natural gas and electric            |   181,000.00
  VI  | City gas                            |   122,000.00
  VII | City gas and electric               |   182,000.00
  VIII| Water gas                           |   214,000.00
  IX  | Water gas and electric              |   238,000.00
   X  | Producer gas                        |   246,000.00
   XI | Producer gas and electric           |   255,000.00
  XII | Coal and electric                   |   194,000.00
  XIII| Electric                            |   257,000.00
 ----------------------------------------------------------

 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
      |        Annual operating expenses       |             |  Cost
  No. |----------------------------------------|    Total    | per lb.
      |    Fixed   |     Heat    |    Labor    |             | metal,
      |   charges  |             |             |             |  cents
 -----|------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|--------
   1  |     4      |      5      |      6      |      7      |    8
      |            |             |             |             |
   I  | $26,850.00 | $156,000.00 | $105,000.00 | $287,850.00 | $3.19
  II  |  31,950.00 |  142,770.00 |   97,000.00 |  271,720.00 |  3.02
  III |  17,550.00 |   44,250.00 |   97,000.00 |  158,800.00 |  1.78
  IV  |  18,000.00 |   41,000.00 |   94,000.00 |  153,000.00 |  1.70
   V  |  27,150.00 |   73,820.00 |   90,000.00 |  190,970.00 |  2.13
   VI |  18,300.00 |  123,200.00 |   94,000.00 |  235,500.00 |  2.62
  VII |  27,300.00 |  128,820.00 |   90,000.00 |  246,020.00 |  2.74
  VIII|  18,600.00 |  104,000.00 |   94,000.00 |  216,600.00 |  2.41
  IX  |  27,450.00 |  117,420.00 |   90,000.00 |  234,870.00 |  2.62
   X  |  18,900.00 |   69,300.00 |   90,000.00 |  178,200.00 |  1.98
   XI |  27,750.00 |   92,520.00 |   90,000.00 |  210,270.00 |  2.34
  XII |  29,100.00 |   87,220.00 |   90,000.00 |  206,320.00 |  2.30
  XIII|  38,550.00 |  135,000.00 |   84,000.00 |  257,550.00 |  2.86
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE.--Producer plant fixed charges are included in the cost of gas and are charged as "heat"
in column 5, so they are omitted from column 4.

CHAPTER XII

PYROMETRY AND PYROMETERS

A knowledge of the fundamental principles of pyrometry, or the measurement of temperatures,
is quite necessary for one engaged in the heat treatment of steel. It is only by careful measurement
and control of the heating of steel that the full benefit of a heat-treating operation is secured.

Before the advent of the thermo-couple, methods of temperature measurement were very crude.
The blacksmith depended on his eyes to tell him when the proper temperature was reached, and
of course the "color" appeared different on light or dark days. "Cherry" to one man was "orange"
to another, and it was therefore almost impossible to formulate any treatment which could be
applied by several men to secure the same results.

One of the early methods of measuring temperatures was the "iron ball" method. In this method,
an iron ball, to which a wire was attached, was placed in the furnace and when it had reached
the temperature of the furnace, it was quickly removed by means of the wire, and suspended
in a can containing a known quantity of water; the volume of water being such that the heat
would not cause it to boil. The rise in temperature of the water was measured by a thermometer,
and, knowing the heat capacity of the iron ball and that of the water, the temperature of the
ball, and therefore the furnace, could be calculated. Usually a set of tables was prepared
to simplify the calculations. The iron ball, however, scaled, and changed in weight with repeated
use, making the determinations less and less accurate. A copper ball was often used to decrease
this change, but even that was subject to error. This method is still sometimes used, but for
uniform results, a platinum ball, which will not scale or change in weight, is necessary, and
the cost of this ball, together with the slowness of the method, have rendered the practice
obsolete, especially in view of modern developments in accurate pyrometry.

PYROMETERS

Armor plate makers sometimes use the copper ball or Siemens' water pyrometer because they can
place a number of the balls or weights on the plate in locations where it is difficult to use
other pyrometers. One of these pyrometers is shown in section in Fig. 109.

SIEMENS' WATER PYROMETER.--It consists of a cylindrical copper vessel provided with a handle
and containing a second smaller copper vessel with double walls. An air space a separates the
two vessels, and a layer of felt the two walls of the inner one, in order to retard the exchange
of temperature with the surroundings. The capacity of the inner vessel is a little more than
one pint. A mercury thermometer b is fixed close to the wall of the inner vessel, its lower
part being protected by a perforated brass tube, whilst the upper projects above the vessel
and is divided as usual on the stem into degrees, Fahrenheit or Centigrade, as desired. At
the side of the thermometer there is a small brass scale c, which slides up and down, and on
which the high temperatures are marked in the same degrees as those in which the mercury thermometer
is divided; on a level with the zero division of the brass scale a small pointer is fixed,
which traverses the scale of the thermometer.

Short cylinders d, of either copper, iron or platinum, are supplied with the pyrometer, which
are so adjusted that their heat capacity at ordinary temperature is equal to one-fiftieth of
that of the copper vessel filled with one pint of water. As, however, the specific heat of
metals increases with the temperature, allowance is made on the brass sliding scales, which
are divided according to the metal used for the pyrometer cylinder d. It will therefore be
understood that a different sliding scale is required for the particular kind of metal of which
a cylinder is composed. In order to obtain accurate measurements, each sliding scale must be
used only in conjunction with its own thermometer, and in case the latter breaks a new scale
must be made and graduated for the new thermometer.

The water pyrometer is used as follows:

Exactly one pint (0.568 liter) of clean water, perfectly distilled or rain water, is poured
into the copper vessel, and the pyrometer is left for a few minutes to allow the thermometer
to attain the temperature of the water.

The brass scale c is then set with its pointer opposite the temperature of the water as shown
by the thermometer. Meanwhile one of the metal cylinders has been exposed to the high temperature
which is to be measured, and after allowing sufficient time for it to acquire that temperature,
it is rapidly removed and dropped into the pyrometer vessel without splashing any of the water out.

The temperature of the water will rise until, after a little while, the mercury of the thermometer
has become stationary. When this is observed the degrees of the thermometer are read off, as
well as those on the brass scale c opposite the top of the mercury. The sum of these two values
together gives the temperature of the flue, furnace or other heated space in which the metal
cylinder had been placed. With cylinders of copper and iron, temperatures up to 1,800°F. (1,000°C.)
can be measured, but with platinum cylinders the limit is 2,700°F. (1,500°C.).

For ordinary furnace work either copper or wrought-iron cylinders may be used. Iron cylinders
possess a higher melting point and have less tendency to scale than those of copper, but the
latter are much less affected by the corrosive action of the furnace gases; platinum is, of
course, not subject to any of these disadvantages.

The weight to which the different metal cylinders are adjusted is as follows:

  Copper          137.0 grams
  Wrought-iron    112.0 grams
  Platinum        402.6 grams

In course of time the cylinders lose weight by scaling; but tables are provided giving multipliers
for the diminished weights, by which the reading on the brass scale should be multiplied.

THE THERMO-COUPLE

With the application of the thermo-couple, the measurement of temperatures, between, say, 700
and 2,500°F., was made more simple and precise. The theory of the thermo-couple is simple;
it is that if two bars, rods, or wires of different metals are joined together at their ends,
when heated so that one junction is hotter than the other, an electromotive force is set up
through the metals, which will increase with the increase of the difference of temperature
between the two junctions. This electromotive force, or voltage, may be measured, and, from
a chart previously prepared, the temperature determined. In most pyrometers, of course, the
temperatures are inscribed directly on the voltmeter, but the fact remains that it is the voltage
of a small electric current, and not heat, that is actually measured.

There are two common types of thermo-couples, the first making use of common, inexpensive metals,
such as iron wire and nichrome wire. This is the so-called "base metal" couple. The other is
composed of expensive metals such as platinum wire, and a wire of an alloy of platinum with
10 per cent of rhodium or iridium. This is called the "rare metal" couple, and because its
component metals are less affected by heat, it lasts longer, and varies less than the base
metal couple.

The cold junction of a thermo-couple may be connected by means of copper wires to the voltmeter,
although in some installations of base metal couples, the wires forming the couple are themselves
extended to the voltmeter, making copper connections unnecessary. From the foregoing, it may
be seen that accurately to measure the temperature of the hot end of a thermo-couple, we must
know the temperature of the cold end, as it is the difference in the temperatures that determines
the voltmeter readings. This is absolutely essential for precision, and its importance cannot
be over-emphasized.

When pyrometers are used in daily operation, they should be checked or calibrated two or three
times a month, or even every week. Where there are many in use, it is good practice to have
a master pyrometer of a rare metal couple, which is used only for checking up the others. The
master pyrometer, after calibrating against the melting points of various substances, will
have a calibration chart which should be used in the checking operation.

It is customary now to send a rare metal couple to the Bureau of Standards at Washington, where
it is very carefully calibrated for a nominal charge, and returned with the voltmeter readings
of a series of temperatures covering practically the whole range of the couple. This couple
is then used only for checking those in daily use.

Pyrometer couples are more or less expensive, and should be cared far when in use. The wires
of the couple should be insulated from each other by fireclay leads or tubes, and it is well
to encase them in a fireclay, porcelain, or quartz tube to keep out the furnace gases, which
in time destroy the hot junction. This tube of fireclay, or porcelain, etc., should be protected
against breakage by an iron or nichrome tube, plugged or welded at the hot end. These simple
precautions will prolong the life of a couple and maintain its precision longer.

Sometimes erroneous temperatures are recorded because the "cold end" of the couple is too near
the furnace and gets hot. This always causes a temperature reading lower than the actual, and
should be guarded against. It is well to keep the cold end cool with water, a wet cloth, or
by placing it where coal air will circulate around it. Best of all, is to have the cold junction
in a box, together with a thermometer, so that its temperature may definitely be known. If
this temperature should rise 20°F. on a hot day, a correction of 20°F. should be added to the
pyrometer reading, and so on. In the most up-to-date installations, this cold junction compensation
is taken care of automatically, a fact which indicates its importance.

Optical pyrometers are often used where it is impracticable to use the thermo-couple, either
because the temperature is so high that it would destroy the couple, or the heat to be measured
is inaccessible to the couple of ordinary length. The temperatures of slag or metal in furnaces
or running through tap-holes or troughs are often measured with optical pyrometers.

In one type of optical pyrometer, the observer focuses it on the metal or slag and moves an
adjustable dial or gage so as to get an exact comparison between the color of the heat measured
with the calor of a lamp or screen in the pyrometer itself. This, of course, requires practice,
and judgment, and brings in the personal equation. With care, however, very reliable temperature
measurements may be made. The temperatures of rails, as they leave the finishing pass of a
rolling mill, are measured in this way.

Another type of optical pyrometer is focused on the body, the temperature of which is to be
measured. The rays converge in the telescope on metal cells, heating them, and thereby generating
a small electric current, the voltage of which is read an a calibrated voltmeter similar to
that used with the thermo-couple. The best precision is obtained when an optical pyrometer
is used each time under similar conditions of light and the same observer.

Where it is impracticable to use either thermo-couples or optical pyrometers, "sentinels" may
be used. There are small cones or cylinders made of salts or other substances of known melting
points and covering a wide range of temperatures.

If six of these "sentinels," melting respectively at 1,300°, 1,350°, 1,400°, 1,450°, 1,500°,
and 1,550°F., were placed in a row in a furnace, together with a piece of steel to be treated,
and the whole heated up uniformly, the sentinels would melt one by one and the observer, by
watching them through an opening in the furnace, could tell when his furnace is at say 1,500°
or between 1,500° and 1,550°, and regulate the heat accordingly.

A very accurate type of pyrometer, but one not so commonly used as those previously described,
is the resistance pyrometer. In this type, the temperature is determined by measuring the resistance
to an electric current of a wire which is at the heat to be measured. This wire is usually
of platinum, wound around a quartz tube, the whole being placed in the furnace. When the wire
is at the temperature of the furnace, it is connected by wires with a Wheatstone Bridge, a
delicate device for measuring electrical resistance, and an electric current is passed through
the wire. This current is balanced by switching in resistances in the Wheatstone Bridge, until
a delicate electrical device shows that no current is flowing. The resistance of the platinum
wire at the heat to be measured is thus determined on the "Bridge," and the temperature read
off on a calibration chart, which shows the resistance at various temperatures.

These are the common methods used to-day for measuring temperatures, but whatever method is
used, the observer should bear in mind that the greatest precision is obtained, and hence the
highest efficiency, by keeping the apparatus in good working order, making sure that conditions
are the same each time, and calibrating or checking against a standard at regular intervals.

THE PYROMETER AND ITS USE

In the heat treatment of steel, it has become absolutely necessary that a measuring instrument
be used which will give the operator an exact reading of heat in furnace. There are a number
of instruments and devices manufactured for this purpose but any instrument that will not give
a direct reading without any guess work should have no place in the heat-treating department.

A pyrometer installation is very simple and any of the leading makers will furnish diagrams
for the correct wiring and give detailed information as to the proper care of, and how best
to use their particular instrument. There are certain general principles, however, that must
be observed by the operators and it cannot be too strongly impressed upon them that the human
factor involved is always the deciding factor in the heat treatment of steel.

A pyrometer is merely an aid in the performance of doing good work, and when carefully observed
will help in giving a uniformity of product and act as a check on careless operators. The operator
must bear in mind that although the reading on the pyrometer scale gives a measure of the temperature
where the junction of the two metals is located, it will not give the temperature at the center
of work in the furnace, unless by previous tests, the heat for penetrating a certain bulk of
material has been decided on, and the time necessary for such penetration is known.

Each analysis of plain carbon or alloy steel is a problem in itself. Its critical temperatures
will be located at slightly different heats than for a steel which has a different proportion
of alloying elements. Furthermore, it takes time for metal to acquire the heat of the furnace.
Even the outer surface lags behind the temperature of the furnace somewhat, and the center
of the piece of steel lags still further. It is apparent, therefore, that temperature, although
important, does not tell the whole story in heat treatment. Time is also a factor.

Time at temperature is also of great importance because it takes time, after the temperature
has been reached, for the various internal changes to take place. Hence the necessity for "soaking,"
when annealing or normalizing. Therefore, a clock is as necessary to the proper pyrometer equipment
as the pyrometer itself.

For the purpose of general work where a wide range of steels or a variable treatment is called
for, it becomes necessary to have the pyrometer calibrated constantly, and when no master instrument
is kept for this purpose the following method can be used to give the desired results:

CALIBRATION OF PYROMETER WITH COMMON SALT

An easy and convenient method for standardization and one which does not necessitate the use
of an expensive laboratory equipment is that based upon determining the melting point of common
table salt (sodium chloride). While theoretically salt that is chemically pure should be used
(and this is neither expensive nor difficult to procure), commercial accuracy may be obtained
by using common table salt such as is sold by every grocer. The salt is melted in a clean crucible
of fireclay, iron or nickel, either in a furnace or over a forge-fire, and then further heated
until a temperature of about 1,600 to 1,650°F. is attained. It is essential that this crucible
be clean because a slight admixture of a foreign substance might noticeably change the melting
point.

The thermo-couple to be calibrated is then removed from its protecting tube and its hot end
is immersed in the salt bath. When this end has reached the temperature of the bath, the crucible
is removed from the source of heat and allowed to cool, and cooling readings are then taken
every 10 sec. on the milli-voltmeter or pyrometer. A curve is then plotted by using time and
temperature as coördinates, and the temperature of the freezing point of salt, as indicated
by this particular thermocouple, is noted, i.e., at the point where the temperature of the
bath remains temporarily constant while the salt is freezing. The length of time during which
the temperature is stationary depends on the size of the bath and the rate of cooling, and
is not a factor in the calibration. The melting point of salt is 1,472°F., and the needed correction
for the instrument under observation can be readily applied.

It should not be understood from the above, however, that the salt-bath calibration cannot
be made without plotting a curve; in actual practice at least a hundred tests are made without
plotting any curve to one in which it is done. The observer, if awake, may reasonably be expected
to have sufficient appreciation of the lapse of time definitely to observe the temperature
at which the falling pointer of the instrument halts. The gradual dropping of the pointer before
freezing, unless there is a large mass of salt, takes place rapidly enough for one to be sure
that the temperature is constantly falling, and the long period of rest during freezing is
quite definite. The procedure of detecting the solidification point of the salt by the hesitation
of the pointer without plotting any curve is suggested because of its simplicity.

COMPLETE CALIBRATION OF PYROMETERS.--For the complete calibration of a thermo-couple of unknown
electromotive force, the new couple may be checked against a standard instrument, placing the
two bare couples side by side in a suitable tube and taking frequent readings over the range
of temperatures desired.

If only one instrument, such as a millivoltmeter, is available, and there is no standard couple
at hand, the new couple may be calibrated over a wide range of temperatures by the use of the
following standards:

  Water, boiling point                        212°F.
  Tin, under charcoal, freezing point         450°F.
  Lead, under charcoal, freezing point        621°F.
  Zinc, under charcoal, freezing point        786°F.
  Sulphur, boiling point                      832°F.
  Aluminum, under charcoal, freezing point  1,216°F.
  Sodium chloride (salt), freezing point    1,474°F.
  Potassium sulphate, freezing point        1,958°F.

A good practice is to make one pyrometer a standard; calibrate it frequently by the melting-point-of-salt
method, and each morning check up every pyrometer in the works with the standard, making the
necessary corrections to be used for the day's work. By pursuing this course systematically,
the improved quality of the product will much more than compensate for the extra work.

The purity of the substance affects its freezing or melting point. The melting point of common
salt is given in one widely used handbook at 1,421°F., although chemically pure sodium chloride
melts at 1,474°F. as shown above. A sufficient quantity for an extended period should be secured.
Test the melting point with a pyrometer of known accuracy. Knowing this temperature it will
be easy to calibrate other pyrometers.

PLACING OF PYROMETERS.--When installing a pyrometer, care should be taken that it reaches directly
to the point desired to be measured, that the cold junction is kept cold, and that the wires
leading to the recording instrument are kept in good shape. The length of these lead wires
have an effect; the longer they are, the lower the apparent temperature.

When pyrometers placed in a number of furnaces are connected up in series, and a multiple switch
is used for control, it becomes apparent that pyrometers could not be interchanged between
furnaces near and far from the instrument without affecting the uniformity of product from
each furnace.

Calibration can best be done without disturbing the working pyrometer, by inserting the master
instrument into each furnace separately, place it alongside the hot junction of the working
pyrometer, and compare the reading given on the indicator connected with the multiple switch.

Protection tubes should be replaced when cracked, as it is important that no foreign substance
is allowed to freeze in the tube, so that the enclosed junction becomes a part of a solid mass
joined in electrical contact with the outside protecting tube. Wires over the furnaces must
be carefully inspected from time to time, as no true reading can be had on an instrument, if
insulation is burned off and short circuits result.

If the standard calibrating instrument used contains a dry battery, it should be examined from
time to time to be sure it is in good condition.

THE LEEDS AND NORTHRUP POTENTIOMETER SYSTEM

The potentiometer pyrometer system is both flexible and substantial in that it is not affected
by the jar and vibration of the factory or the forge shop. Large or small couples, long or
short leads can be used without adjustment. The recording instrument may be placed where it
is most convenient, without regard to the distance from the furnace.

ITS FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE.--The potentiometer is the electrical equivalent of the chemical
balance, or balance arm scales. Measurements are made with balance scales by varying known
weights until they equal the unknown weight. When the two are equal the scales stand at zero,
that is, in the position which they occupy when there is no weight on either pan; the scales
are then said to be balanced. Measurements are made with the potentiometer by varying a known
electromotive force until it equals the unknown; when the two are equal the index of the potentiometer,
the galvanometer needle, stands motionless as it is alternately connected and disconnected.
The variable known weights are units separate from the scales, but the potentiometer provides
its own variable known electromotive force.

The potentiometer provides, first, a means of securing a known variable electromotive force
and, second, suitable electrical connections for bringing that electromotive force to a point
where it may be balanced against the unknown electromotive force of the couple. The two are
connected with opposite polarity, or so that the two e.m.f.s oppose one another. So long as
one is stronger than the other a current will flow through the couple; when the two are equal
no current will flow.

Figure 107 shows the wiring of the potentiometer in its simplest form. The thermo-couple is
at H, with its polarity as shown by the symbols + and -. It is connected with the main circuit
of the potentiometer at the fixed point D and the point G.

A current from the dry cell Ba is constantly flowing through the main, or so-called potentiometer
circuit, ABCDGEF. The section DGE of this circuit is a slide wire, uniform in resistance throughout
its length. The scale is fixed on this slide wire. The current from the cell Ba as it flows
through DGE, undergoes a fall in potential, setting up a difference in voltage, that is, an
electromotive force, between D and E. There will also be electromotive force between D and
all other points on the slide wire. The polarity of this is in opposition to the polarity of
the thermo-couple which connects into the potentiometer at D and at G. By moving G along the
slide wire a point is found where the voltage between D and G in the slide wire is just equal
to the voltage between D and G generated by the thermo-couple. A galvanometer in the thermo-couple
circuit indicates when the balance point is reached, since at this point the galvanometer needle
will stand motionless when its circuit is opened and closed.

The voltage in the slide wire will vary with the current flowing through it from the cell Ba
and a means of standardizing this is provided. SC, Fig. 111, is a cadmium cell whose voltage
is constant. It is connected at two points C and D to the potentiometer circuit whenever the
potentiometer current is to be standardized. At this time the galvanometer is thrown in series
with SC. The variable rheostat R is then adjusted until the current flowing is such that as
it flows through the standard resistance CD, the fall in potential between C and D is just
equal to the voltage of the standard cell SC. At this time the galvanometer will indicate a
balance in the same way as when it was used with a thermo-couple. By this operation the current
in the slide wire DGE has been standardized.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE WIRING SCHEME OF THE COLD-END COMPENSATOR.--The net voltage generated by
a thermo-couple depends upon the temperature of the hot end and the temperature of the cold
end. Therefore, any method adopted for reading temperature by means of thermo-couples must
in some way provide a means of correcting for the temperature of the cold end. The potentiometer
may have either of two very simple devices for this purpose. In one form the operator is required
to set a small index to a point on a scale corresponding to the known cold junction temperature.
In the other form an even more simple automatic compensator is employed. The principle of each
is described in the succeeding paragraphs, in which the assumption is made that the reader
already understands the potentiometer principle as described above.

As previously explained the voltage of the thermo-couple is measured by balancing it against
the voltage drop DG in the potentiometer.

As shown in Fig. 111, the magnitude of the balancing voltage is controlled by the position
of G. Make D movable as shown in Fig. 112 and the magnitude of the voltage DG may be varied
either from the point D or the point G. This gives a means of compensating for cold end changes
by setting the slider D. As the cold end temperature rises the net voltage generated by the
couple decreases, assuming the hot end temperature to be constant. To balance this decreased
voltage the slider D is moved along its scale to a new point nearer G. In other words, the
slider D is moved along its scale until it corresponds to the known temperature of the cold
end and then the potentiometer is balanced by moving the slider G. The readings of G will then
be direct.

The same results will be obtained if a slide wire upon which D bears is in parallel with the
slide wire of G, as shown in Fig. 113.

AUTOMATIC COMPENSATOR.--It should be noted that the effect of moving the contact D, Fig. 113,
is to vary the ratio of the resistances on the two sides of the point D in the secondary slide
wire. In the recording pyrometers, an automatic compensator is employed. This automatic compensator
varies the ratio on the two sides of the point D in the following manner:

The point D, Fig. 114, is mechanically fixed; on one side of D is the constant resistance coil
M, on the other the nickel coil N. N is placed at or near the cold end of the thermo-couple
(or couples). Nickel has a high temperature coefficient and the electrical proportions of M
and N are such that the resistance change of N, as it varies with the temperature of the cold
end, has the same effect upon the balancing voltage between D and G that the movement of the
point D, Fig. 114, has in the hand-operated compensator.

Instruments embodying these principles are shown in Figs. 115 to 117. The captions making their
uses clear.

PLACING THE THERMO-COUPLES

The following illustrations from the Taylor Instrument Company show different applications
of the thermo-couples to furnaces of various kinds. Figure 118 shows an oil-fired furnace with
a simple vertical installation. Figure 119 shows a method of imbedding the thermo-couple in
the floor of a furnace so as to require no space in the heating chamber.

Various methods of applying a pyrometer to common heat-treatment furnaces are shown in Figs.
120 to 122.

LEEDS AND NORTHRUP OPTICAL PYROMETER

The principles of this very popular method of measuring temperature are sketched in Fig. 123.

The instrument is light and portable, and can be sighted as easily as an opera glass. The telescope,
which is held in the hand, weighs only 25 oz.; and the case containing the battery, rheostat
and milliammeter, which is slung from the shoulder, only 10 lb.

A large surface to sight at is not required. So long as the image formed by the objective is
broader than the lamp filament, the temperature can be measured accurately.

Distance does not matter, as the brightness of the image formed by the lens is practically
constant, regardless of the distance of the instrument from the hot object.

The manipulation is simple and rapid, consisting merely in the turning of a knurled knob. The
setting is made with great precision, due to the rapid change in light intensity with change
in temperature and to the sensitiveness of the eye to differences of light intensity. In the
region of temperatures used for hardening steel, for example, different observers using the
instrument will agree within 3°C.

Only brightness, not color, of light is matched, as light of only one color reaches the eye.
Color blindness, therefore, is no hindrance to the use of this method. The use of the instrument
is shown in Fig. 127.

OPTICAL SYSTEM AND ELECTRICAL CIRCUIT OF THE LEEDS & NORTHRUP OPTICAL PYROMETER.--For extremely
high temperature, the optical pyrometer is largely used. This is a comparative method. By means
of the rheostat the current through the lamp is adjusted until the brightness of the filament
is just equal to the brightness of the image produced by the lens L, Fig. 123, whereupon the
filament blends with or becomes indistinguishable in the background formed by the image of
the hot object. This adjustment can be made with great accuracy and certainty, as the effect
of radiation upon the eye varies some twenty times faster than does the temperature at 1,600°F.,
and some fourteen times faster at 3,400°F. When a balance has been obtained, the observer notes
the reading of the milliammeter. The temperature corresponding to the current is then read
from a calibration curve supplied with the instrument.

As the intensity of the light emitted at the higher temperatures becomes dazzling, it is found
desirable to introduce a piece of red glass in the eye piece at R. This also eliminates any
question of matching colors, or of the observer's ability to distinguish colors. It is further
of value in dealing with bodies which do not radiate light of the same composition as that
emitted by a black body, since nevertheless the intensity of radiation of any one color from
such bodies increases progressively in a definite manner as the temperature rises. The intensity
of this one color can therefore be used as a measure of temperature for the body in question.
Figures 124 to 126 show the way it is read.

CORRECTION FOR COLD-JUNCTION ERRORS

The voltage generated by a thermo-couple of an electric pyrometer is dependent on the difference
in temperature between its hot junction, inside the furnace, and the cold junction, or opposite
end of the thermo-couple to which the copper wires are connected. If the temperature or this
cold junction rises and falls, the indications of the instrument will vary, although the hot
junction in the furnace may be at a constant temperature.

A cold-junction temperature of 75°F., or 25°C., is usually adopted in commercial pyrometers,
and the pointer on the pyrometer should stand at this point on the scale when the hot junction
is not heated. If the cold-junction temperature rises about 75°F., where base metal thermo-couples
are used, the pyrometer will read approximately 1° low for every 1° rise in temperature above
75°F. For example, if the instrument is adjusted for a cold-junction temperature of 75°, and
the actual cold-junction temperature is 90°F., the pyrometer will read 15° low. If, however,
the cold-junction temperature falls below 75°F., the pyrometer will read high instead of low,
approximately 1° for every 1° drop in temperature below 75°F.

With platinum thermo-couples, the error is approximately 1/2° for 1° change in temperature.

CORRECTION BY ZERO ADJUSTMENT.--Many pyrometers are supplied with a zero adjuster, by means
of which the pointer can be set to any actual cold-junction temperature. If the cold junction
of the thermo-couple is in a temperature of 100°F., the pointer can be set to this point on
the scale, and the readings of the instrument will be correct.

COMPENSATING LEADS.--By the use of compensating leads, formed of the same material as the thermo-couple,
the cold junction can be removed from the head of the thermo-couple to a point 10, 20 or 50
ft. distant from the furnace, where the temperature is reasonably constant. Where greater accuracy
is desired, a common method is to drive a 2-in. pipe, with a pointed closed end, some 10 to
20 ft. into the ground, as shown in Fig. 128. The compensating leads are joined to the copper
leads, and the junction forced down to the bottom of the pipe. The cold junction is now in
the ground, beneath the building, at a depth at which the temperature is very constant, about
70°F., throughout the year. This method will usually control the cold-junction temperature
within 5°F.

Where the greatest accuracy is desired a compensating box will overcome cold-junction errors
entirely. It consists of a case enclosing a lamp and thermostat, which can be adjusted to maintain
any desired temperature, from 50 to 150°F. The compensating leads enter the box and copper
leads run from the compensating box to the instrument, so that the cold junction is within
the box. Figure 129 shows a Brown compensating box.

If it is desired to maintain the cold junction at 100°: the thermostat is set at this point,
and the lamp, being wired to the 110- or 220-volt lighting circuit, will light and heat the
box until 100° is reached, when the thermostat will open the circuit and the light is extinguished.
The box will now cool down to 98°, when the circuit is again closed, the lamp lights, the box
heats up, and the operation is repeated.

BROWN AUTOMATIC SIGNALING PYROMETER

