THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, No. 282.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHITECTURAL ILLUSTRATIONS.

NO. III.

"The architectural spirit which has arisen in London since the late peace, and ramified from
thence to every city and town of the empire, will present an era in our domestic history."
Such is the opinion of an intelligent writer in a recent number of Brande's "Quarterly Journal;"
and he goes on to describe the new erections in the Regent's Park as the "dawning of a new
and better taste, and in comparison with that which preceded it, a just subject of national
exultation;" in illustration of which fact we have selected the subjoined view of Hanover Terrace,
being the last group on the left of the York-gate entrance, and that next beyond Sussex-place,
distinguishable by its cupola tops.

Hanover Terrace, unlike Cornwall and other terraces of the Regent's Park, is somewhat raised
from the level of the road, and fronted by a shrubbery, through which is a carriage-drive.
The general effect of the terrace is pleasing; and the pediments, supported on an arched rustic
basement by fluted Doric columns, are full of richness and chaste design; the centre representing
an emblematical group of the arts and sciences, the two ends being occupied with antique devices;
and the three surmounted with figures of the Muses. The frieze is also light and simply elegant.
The architect is Mr. Nash, to whose classic taste the Regent's Park is likewise indebted for
other interesting architectural groups.

Altogether, Hanover Terrace may be considered as one of the most splendid works of the neighbourhood,
and it is alike characteristic of British opulence, and of the progressive improvement of national
taste. On the general merits of these erections we shall avail ourselves of the author already
quoted, inasmuch as his remarks are uniformly distinguished by moderation and good taste.

"Regent's Park, and its circumjacent buildings, promise, in few years, to afford something
like an equipoise to the boasted Palace-group of Paris. If the plan already acted upon is steadily
pursued, it will present a union of rural and architectural beauty on a scale of greater magnificence
than can be found in any other place. The variety is here in the detached groups, and not as
formerly in the individual dwellings, by which all unity and grandeur of effect was, of course,
annihilated. These groups, undoubtedly, will not always bear the eye of a severe critic, but
altogether they exhibit, perhaps, as much beauty as can easily be introduced into a collection
of dwelling-houses of moderate size. Great care has been taken to give something of a classical
air to every composition; and with this object, the deformity of door-cases has been in most
cases excluded, and the entrances made from behind. The Doric and Ionic orders have been chiefly
employed; but the Corinthian, and even the Tuscan, are occasionally introduced. One of these
groups is finished with domes; but this is an attempt at magnificence which, on so small a
scale, is not deserving of imitation."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ISLE OF SHEPPEY.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--Under the Arcana of Science, in your last Number, I observed an account of the inroads
made by the sea on the Isle of Sheppey, together with the exhumation there of numerous animal
and vegetable remains. As an additional fact I inform you, that, at about three hundred feet
below the surface of the sand-bank, (of which the island is composed,) there is a vast prostrate
antediluvian forest, masses of which are being continually developed by the influence of marine
agency, and exhibit highly singular appearances. When the workmen were employed some years
back in sinking a well to supply the garrison with water, the aid of gunpowder was required
to blast the fossil timber, it having attained, by elementary action and the repose of ages,
the hard compactness of rock or granite stone. Aquatic productions also appear to observation
in their natural shape and proportion, with the advantage of high preservation, to facilitate
the study of the inquiring philosopher. I have seen entire lobsters, eels, crabs, &c. all transformed
into perfect lapidifications. Many of these interesting bodies have been selected, and at the
present time tend to enrich the elaborate collections of the Museum of London and the Institute
of France. During the winter of 1825, in examining a piece of petrified wood, which I had picked
up on the shore, we discovered a very minute aperture, barely the size of a pin-hole, and on
breaking the substance by means of a large hammer, to our surprise and regret we crushed a
small reptile that was concealed inside, and which, in consequence, we were unfortunately prevented
from restoring to its original shape. The body was of a circular shape and iron coloured; but
from the blood which slightly moistened the face of the instrument, we were satisfied it must
have been animated. I showed the fragments of both to a gentleman in the island, who, like
myself, lamented the accident, as it had, in all likelihood, deprived science of forming some
valuable (perhaps) deductions on this incarcerated, or (if I may be allowed the expression)
compound phenomenon. I have merely related the above incident in order to show the possibility
of there being other creatures accessible to discovery under similar circumstances, and in
their nature, perhaps homogeneous. I left the island next day, and therefore had no further
opportunities of confirming such an opinion; but the place itself abounds with substances which
would authorize such conjectures.

D. A. P.[1]

    [1] We thank our correspondent for the above communication on
    one of the most interesting phenomena of British geology; for,
    as we hinted in our last, the pleasantest hours of our sojourn
    at Margate, about three years since, were passed in the
    watchmaker's museum, nearly opposite the Marine Library, which
    collection contains many Sheppey fossils, especially a prawn,
    said to be the only one in England. We remember the proprietor
    to have been a self-educated man: he had been to the museum at
    Paris twice or thrice, and spoke in high terms of the courteous
    reception he met with from M Cuvier; and we are happy to
    corroborate his representations. With respect to the reptile,
    or, as we should say, insect, alluded to in the preceding
    letter, we suppose it to have been a vermicular insect, similar
    to those inhabiting the cells of corallines, of whose tiny
    labours, in the formation of coral islands, we quoted a spirited
    poetical description in No. 279 of the MIRROR. Corallines much
    resemble fossil or petrified wood; and we recollect to have
    received from the landlady of an inn at Portsmouth a small
    branch of fossil wood, which she asserted to be coral, and
    that upon the authority of scores of her visiters; but the
    fibres, &c. of the wood were too evident to admit of a dispute.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTICIPATED FRENCH MILLENNIUM, OR THE PARISIAN "TRIVIA."

(For The Mirror.)

    "Travellers of that rare tribe, Who've seen the countries
    they describe."
        HANNAH MORE.

  When daudling diligences drag
    Their lumbering length along[2] no more--
  That odd anomaly!--or wag
    Gon call'd, or coach--a misnomer[3]--

  That Cerberus three-bodied! and
    That Cerberus of music!
  Such rattle with their nine-in-hand!
    O, Cerbere, an tu sic?

  When this, (and of Long Acre wits
    To rival this would floor some!)
  When this at last the Frenchman quits.
    Then! then is the age d'or come!

  When coxcomb waiters know their trade,
    Nor mix their sauces[4] with cookey's;
  When John's no longer chamber maid,
    And printed well a book is.

  When sorrel, garlic, dirty knife,
    Et cetera, spoil no dinners--
  (The punishment is after life,
    Are cooks to punish sinners?)

  When bucks are safe, nor streets display
    A sea Mediterranean;[5]
  When Cloacina wends her way
    In streamlet sub-terranean.

  When houses, inside well as out,
    Are clean,[6] and servants civil;[7]
  When dice (if e'er 'twill be I doubt)
    Send fewer--to the devil.

  When riot ends, and comfort reigns,
    Right English comfort[8]--players
  Are fetter'd with no rhythmic[9] chains--
    French priests repeat French prayers.[10]

  When Palais Royal vice subsides,[11]
    (Who plays there's a complete ass--)
  When footpaths grow on highway sides[12]--
    Then! then's the Aurea-Aetas!

  There, France, I leave thee.--Jean Taureau![13]
    What think'st thou of thy neighbours?
  Or (what I own I'd rather know)
    What--think'st thou of MY LABOURS?

A TRAVELLER OF 1827, (W. P.)

Carshalton.

    [2] "Which, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length
    along"--POPE.

    [3] It is, indeed, difficult to avoid one, call it what you
    will, and quite as difficult to find a more absurd name than
    that adopted, unless, indeed, (why the machine goes but five
    miles an hour,) it is called a diligence from not being
    diligent, as the speaker of our House of Commons may be so
    designated from not speaking. It consists of three bodies,
    carries eighteen inside, and is not unfrequently drawn by nine
    horses. A cavalry charge, therefore, could scarcely make more
    noise. Hence, and from the other circumstance, its association
    in the second stanza with the triune sonorous Cerberus. A
    diligence indeed!

    [4] The intrusive garrulity of French waiters at dinner is
    notorious.

    [5] This "sea Mediterranean" is a most filthy, fetid, uncovered
    gutter, running down the middle of the most, even of the best
    streets, and with which every merciless Jehu most liberally
    bespatters the unhappy pedestrian. Truly la belle nation has
    little idea of decency, or there would be subterranean sewers
    like ours.

    [6] French houses are cleaner even than ours externally, being
    all neatly whitewashed! mais le dedans! le dedans!

    [7] The servants are as notorious for their incivility as for
    their intrusive loquacity.

    [8] As Scott well observes in the introduction to Waverley, "the
    word comfortable is peculiar to the English language." The thing
    is certainly peculiar to us, if the word is not.

    [9] All the tragedies are in rhyme, and that of the very worst
    description for elocutionary effect. It is the anapestic, like,
    as Hannah More remarks, "A cobbler there was, and he lived in a
    stall!"

    [10] It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the absurdity
    (exploded in England at the Reformation) of a Latin liturgy
    still obtains in France.

    [11] The Palais Royal! that pandemonium of profligacy! whose
    gaming tables have eternally ruined so many of our countrymen!
    So many, that he who, unwarned by their sad experience, plays at
    them, is--is he not?--"complete ass."

    [12] There are none, even in the leading streets; our
    ambassador's, for instance.

    [13] As the Etoile lately translated John Bull. "When John's
    no longer chamber-maid." Of the propria quae maribus of French
    domestic economy, this is not the least amusing feature. At my
    hotel (in Rue St. Honoré) there was a he bed-maker; and I do
    believe the anomalous animal is not uncommon.

        "When printed well a book is."

    Both paper and types are very inferior to ours. But that I
    respect the editor's modesty, I would say it were not easy to
    find a periodical in Paris, at once so handsomely and
    economically got up as--this MIRROR.

       *       *       *       *       *

CARRYING THE TAR BARRELS AT BROUGH, WESTMORELAND.

(To The Editor Of The Mirror.)

SIR,--In the haste in which I wrote my last account of the carrying of "tar barrels" in Westmoreland,[14]
(owing to the pressure of time,) I omitted some most interesting information, and I think I
cannot do better than supply the deficiency this year.

As I said before, the day is prepared for, about a month previously--the townsmen employ themselves
in hagging furze for the "bon-fire," which is situated in an adjoining field. Another party
go round to the different houses, grotesquely attired, supplicating contributions for the "tar
barrels," and at each house, after receiving a donation, chant a few doggerel verses and huzza!
It is, however, well that people should contribute towards defraying the expense, for if they
do not get enough money they commit sad depredations, and if any one is seen carrying a barrel
they wrest it from him.

For my part, I liked the "watch night" the best, and if it were possible to keep sober, one
might enjoy the fun--sad havoc indeed was then made among the poultry--when ducks and fowls
were crackling before the fire all night; in fact, a few previous days were regular shooting
days, and the little birds were killed by scores. But ere morning broke in upon them, many
of the merry group were lying in a beastly state under the chairs and tables, or others had
gone to bed; but this is what they called spending a merry night. The day arrives, and a whole
troop of temporary soldiers assemble in the town at 10 P.M. with their borrowed instruments
and dresses, and a real Guy,--not a paper one,--but a living one--a regular painted old fellow,
I assure you, with a pair of boots like the Ogre's seven leagued, seated on an ass, with the
mob continually bawling out, "there's a par o'ye!"

Thus they parade the town--one of the head leaders knocks at the door--repeats the customary
verses, while the other holds a silken purse for the cash, which they divide amongst them after
the expenses are paid--and a pretty full purse they get too. In the evening so anxious are
they to fire the stack, that lanterns may be seen glimmering in all parts of the field like
so many will-o'-the-wisps; then follow the tar barrels, and after this boisterous amusement
the scene closes, save the noise throughout the night, and for some nights after of the drunken
people, who very often repent their folly by losing their situations.

Now, respecting the origin of this custom, I merely, by way of hint, submit, that in the time
of Christian martyrdom, as tar barrels were used for the "burning at the stake" to increase
the ravages of the flame:--the custom is derived,--out of rejoicings for the abolition of the
horrid practice, and this they show by carrying them on their heads (as represented at page
296, vol. 8.), but you may treat this suggestion as you please, and perhaps have the kindness
to substitute your own, or inquire into it.

W.H.H.

    [14] See MIRROR, vol. 8, page 296.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUSTOM OF BAKING SOUR CAKES.

(For The Mirror.)

Rutherglen, in the county of Lanarkshire, has long been famous for the singular custom of baking
what are called sour cakes. About eight or ten days before St. Luke's fair (for they are baked
at no other time in the year), a certain quantity of oatmeal is made into dough with warm water,
and laid up in a vessel to ferment. Being brought to a proper degree of fermentation and consistency,
it is rolled up into balls proportionable to the intended largeness of the cakes. With the
dough is commonly mixed a small quantity of sugar, and a little aniseed or cinnamon. The baking
is executed by women only; and they seldom begin their work till after sunset, and a night
or two before the fair. A large space of the house, chosen for the purpose, is marked out by
a line drawn upon it. The area within is considered as consecrated ground, and is not, by any
of the bystanders, to be touched with impunity. The transgression incurs a small fine, which
is always laid out in drink for the use of the company. This hallowed spot, is occupied by
six or eight women, all of whom, except the toaster, seat themselves on the ground, in a circular
form, having their feet turned towards the fire. Each of them is provided with a bakeboard
about two feet square, which they hold on their knees. The woman who toasts the cakes, which
is done on an iron plate suspended over the fire, is called the queen, or bride, and the rest
are called her maidens. These are distinguished from one another by names given them for the
occasion. She who sits next the fire, towards the east, is called the todler; her companion
on the left hand is called the trodler;[15] and the rest have arbitrary names given them by
the bride, as Mrs. Baker, best and worst maids, &c. The operation is begun by the todler, who
takes a ball of the dough, forms it into a cake, and then casts it on the bakeboard of the
trodler, who beats it out a little thinner. This being done, she, in her turn, throws it on
the board of her neighbour; and thus it goes round, from east to west, in the direction of
the course of the sun, until it comes to the toaster, by which time it is as thin and smooth
as a sheet of paper. The first cake that is cast on the girdle is usually named as a gift to
some man who is known to have suffered from the infidelity of his wife, from a superstitious
notion, that thereby the rest will be preserved from mischance. Sometimes the cake is so thin,
as to be carried by the current of the air up into the chimney. As the baking is wholly performed
by the hand, a great deal of noise is the consequence. The beats, however, are not irregular,
nor destitute of an agreeable harmony, especially when they are accompanied with vocal music,
which is frequently the case. Great dexterity is necessary, not only to beat out the cakes
with no other instrument than the hand, so that no part of them shall be thicker than another,
but especially to cast them from one board to another without ruffling or breaking them. The
toasting requires considerable skill; for which reason the most experienced person in the company
is chosen for that part of the work. One cake is sent round in quick succession to another,
so that none of the company is suffered to be idle. The whole is a scene of activity, mirth,
and diversion. As there is no account, even by tradition itself, concerning the origin of this
custom, it must be very ancient. The bread thus baked was, doubtless, never intended for common
use. It is not easy to conceive how mankind, especially in a rude age, would strictly observe
so many ceremonies, and be at so great pains in making a cake, which, when folded together,
makes but a scanty mouthful.[16] Besides, it is always given away in presents to strangers
who frequent the fair. The custom seems to have been originally derived from paganism, and
to contain not a few of the sacred rites peculiar to that impure religion; as the leavened
dough, and the mixing it with sugar and spices, the consecrated ground, &c.; but the particular
deity, for whose honour these cakes were at first made, is not, perhaps, easy to determine.
Probably it was no other than the one known in Scripture (Jer. 7 ch. 18 v.) by the name of
the Queen of Heaven, and to whom cakes were likewise kneaded by women.

J.S.W.

    [15] These names are descriptive of the manner in which the
    women, so called, perform their part of the work, To todle, is
    to walk or move slowly, like a child; to trodle, is to walk or
    move more quickly.

    [16] From our Correspondent's description of these cakes, we
    suppose them to resemble the wafers sold by the confectioners,
    except in the elegant designs on their surface.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

FROM METASTATIO.

(For The Mirror.)

  How in the depth of winter rude
    A lovely flower is prized,
  Which in the month of April view'd,
    Perhaps has been despised.
  How fair amid the shades of night
    Appears the stars' pale ray;
  Behold the sun's more dazzling light,
    It quickly fades away.

E.L.I.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ORIGIN OF PETER'S PENCE.

(For The Mirror.)

The custom of paying "Peter's pence" is of Saxon origin; and they continued to be paid by the
inhabitants of England, till the abolition of the Papal power. The event by which their payment
was enacted is as follows:--Ethelbert, king of the east angles, having reigned single some
time, thought fit to take a wife; for this purpose he came to the court of Offa, king of Mercia,
to desire his daughter in marriage. Queenrid, consort of Offa, a cruel, ambitious, and blood-thirsty
woman, who envied the retinue and splendour of the unsuspicious king, resolved in some manner
to have him murdered, before he left their court, hoping by that to gain his immense riches;
for this purpose she, with her malicious and fascinating arts, overcame the king--her husband,
which she most cunningly effected, and, under deep disguises, laid open to him her portentous
design; a villain was therefore hired, named Gimberd, who was to murder the innocent prince.
The manner in which the heinous crime was effected was as cowardly as it was fatal: under the
chair of state in which Ethelbert sat, a deep pit was dug; at the bottom of it was placed the
murderer; the unfortunate king was then let through a trap-door into the pit; his fear overcame
him so much, that he did not attempt resistance. Three months after this, Queenrid died, when
circumstances convinced Offa of the innocence of Ethelbert; he therefore, to appease his guilt,
built St. Alban's monastery, gave one-tenth part of his goods to the poor, and went in penance
to Rome--where he gave to the Pope a penny for every house in his dominions, which were afterwards
called Rome shot, or Peter's pence, and given by the inhabitants of England, &c. till 1533,
when Henry VIII. shook off the authority of the Pope in this country.

T.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCANA OF SCIENCE.

Black And White Swans.

A few weeks since a black swan was killed by his white companions, in the neighbourhood of
London. Of this extraordinary circumstance, an eye-witness gives the following account:--

I was walking, between four and five o'clock on Saturday afternoon, in the Regent's Park, when
my attention was attracted by an unusual noise on the water, which I soon ascertained to arise
from a furious attack made by two white swans on the solitary black one. The allied couple
pursued with the greatest ferocity the unfortunate rara avis, and one of them succeeded in
getting the neck of his enemy between his bill, and shaking it violently. The poor black with
difficulty extricated himself from this murderous grasp, hurried on shore, tottered a few paces
from the water's edge, and fell. His death appeared to be attended with great agony, stretching
his neck in the air, fluttering his wings, and attempting to rise from the ground. At length,
after about five minutes of suffering, he made a last effort to rise, and fell with outstretched
neck and wings. One of the keepers came up at the moment, and found the poor bird dead. It
is remarkable, that his foes never left the water in pursuit, but continued sailing up and
down to the spot wherein their victim fell, with every feather on end, and apparently proud
of their conquest.

Fascination Of Snakes.

I have often heard stories about the power that snakes have to charm birds and animals, which,
to say the least, I always treated with the coldness of scepticism, nor could I believe them
until convinced by ocular demonstration. A case occurred in Williamsburgh, Massachussets, one
mile south of the house of public worship, by the way-side, in July last. As I was walking
in the road at noon-day, my attention was drawn to the fence by the fluttering and hopping
of a robin red-breast, and a cat-bird, which, upon my approach, flew up, and perched on a sapling
two or three rods distant; at this instant a large black snake reared his head from the ground
near the fence. I immediately stepped back a little, and sat down upon an eminence; the snake
in a few moments slunk again to the earth, with a calm, placid appearance; and the birds soon
after returned, and lighted upon the ground near the snake, first stretching their wings upon
the ground, and spreading their tails, they commenced fluttering round the snake, drawing nearer
at almost every step, until they stepped near or across the snake, which would often move a
little, or throw himself into a different posture, apparently to seize his prey; which movements,
I noticed, seemed to frighten the birds, and they would veer off a few feet, but return again
as soon as the snake was motionless. All that was wanting for the snake to secure the victims
seemed to be, that the birds should pass near his head, which they would probably have soon
done, but at this moment a wagon drove up and stopped. This frightened the snake, and it crawled
across the fence into the grass: notwithstanding, the birds flew over the fence into the grass
also, and appeared to be bewitched, to flutter around their charmer, and it was not until an
attempt was made to kill the snake that the birds would avail themselves of their wings, and
fly into a forest one hundred rods distant. The movements of the birds while around the snake
seemed to be voluntary, and without the least constraint; nor did they utter any distressing
cries, or appear enraged, as I have often seen them when squirrels, hawks, and mischievous
boys attempted to rob their nests, or catch their young ones; but they seemed to be drawn by
some allurement or enticement, and not by any constraining or provoking power; indeed, I thoroughly
searched all the fences and trees in the vicinity, to find some nest or young birds, but could
find none. What this fascinating power is, whether it be the look or effluvium, or the singing
by the vibration of the tail of the snake, or anything else, I will not attempt to determine--possibly
this power may be owing to different causes in different kinds of snakes. But so far as the
black snake is concerned, it seems to be nothing more than an enticement or allurement with
which the snake is endowed to procure his fowl.--Professor Silliman's Journal.

Boring Marine Animals.

The most destructive of these is the Teredo Navalis, a fine specimen of which was exhibited
at a recent meeting of the Portsmouth Philosophical Society. This animal has been said to extend
the whole length of the boring tube; but this assertion is erroneous, since the tubes are formed
by a secretion from the body of the animal, and are often many feet in length, and circuitous
in their course. This was shown to be the fact, by a large piece of wood pierced in all directions.
The manner in which it affects its passage, and the interior of the tubes, were also described.
The assertion that the Teredo does not attack teak timber was disproved; and its destructive
ravages on the bottom of ships exemplified, by a relation of the providential escape of his
majesty's ship Sceptre, which having lost some copper from off her bows, the timbers were pierced
through to such an extent as to render her incapable of pursuing her voyage without repair.

Anthracite, or Stone Coal.

Professor Silliman's last journal contains a very important article, illustrative of the practical
application of this mineral; and the vast quantities of it that may be found in Great Britain
renders the information highly valuable to our manufacturing interests. In no part of the world
is anthracite, so valuable in the arts and for economical purposes, found so abundantly as
in Pennsylvania. For the manufacture of iron this fuel is peculiarly advantageous, as it embraces
little sulphur or other injurious ingredients; produces an intense steady heat; and, for most
operations, it is equal, if not superior to coke. Bar iron, anchors, chains, steamboat machinery,
and wrought-iron of every description, has more tenacity and malleability, with less waste
of metal, when fabricated by anthracite, than by the aid of bituminous coal or charcoal, with
a diminution of fifty per cent. in the expense of labour and fuel. For breweries, distilleries,
and the raising of steam, anthracite coal is decidedly preferable to other fuel, the heat being
more steady and manageable, and the boilers less corroded by sulphureous acid, while no bad
effects are produced by smoke and bitumen. The anthracite of Pennsylvania is located between
the Blue Bridge and Susquehannah; and has not hitherto been found in other parts of the state,
except in the valley of Wyoming.

Holly Hedges.

At Tynningham, the residence of the Earl of Harrington, are holly hedges extending 2,952 yards,
in some cases 13 feet broad and 25 feet high. The age of these hedges is something more than
a century. At the same place are individual trees of a size quite unknown in these southern
districts. One tree measures 5 feet 3 in. in circumference at 3 feet from the ground; the stem
is clear of branches to the height of 14 feet, and the total height of the tree is 54 feet.
At Colinton House, the seat of Sir David Forbes; Hopetown House, and Gordon Castle are also
several large groups of hollies, apparently planted by the hand of Nature.--Trans. Horticultural
Society.

Egg Plants.

In this country, the egg plant, brinjal, or aubergine, is chiefly cultivated as a curiosity;
but in warmer climates, where its growth is attended with less trouble, it is a favourite article
of the kitchen garden. In the form of fritters, or farces, or in soups, it is frequently brought
to table in all the southern parts of Europe, and forms a pleasant variety of esculent.--Ibid.

Vinegar Made From Black Ants.

It is singular enough, that a discovery of modern chemistry should long have been practically
employed in some parts of Norway, for the purpose of making vinegar from a large species of
black ant. The method employed in Norlanden is simply this: they first collect a sufficient
quantity of these little animals, by plunging a bottle partly filled with water up to the neck
in one of the large ant-hills; into which they naturally creep, and are drowned. The contents
are then boiled together, and the acid thus produced is made use of by the inhabitants as vinegar,
being strong and good.

Soil For Fruit Trees.

Low grounds that form the banks of rivers are, of all others, the best adapted for the growth
of fruit trees; the alluvial soil of which they are composed, being an intermixture of the
richest and most soluble parts of the neighbouring lands, with a portion of animal and vegetable
matter, affording an inexhaustible store of nourishment--Trans. Horticultural Society.

Watch Alarum.

A patent has recently been procured for a most useful appendage to a watch, for giving alarm
at any hour during the night. Instead of encumbering a watch designed to be worn in the pocket
with the striking apparatus, (by which it would be increased to double the ordinary thickness),
this ingenious invention has the alarum or striking part detached, and forming a bed on which
the watch is to be laid; a communication being made by a lever, projecting through the watch
case, to connect the works. This appendage is described to be applicable to any watch of the
usual construction, and is by no means expensive.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONTHS.

NOVEMBER.

November is associated with gloom, inasmuch as its days and nights are, for the most part,
sullen and sad. But the transition to this gloom is slow, gradual, and almost imperceptible.
The mornings of the month are generally foggy, and are thus described by a modern poet:--

 "Not pleasureless the morn, when dismal fog
  Rolls o'er the dewy plain, or thin mist drives;
  When the lone timber's saturated branch
  Drips freely."

In the progress of day,

 "Shorn of his glory through the dim profound,
  With melancholy aspect looks the orb
  Of stifled day, and while he strives to pierce
  And dissipate the slow reluctant gloom,
  Seems but a rayless globe, an autumn moon,
  That gilds opaque the purple zone of eve,
  And yet distributes of her thrifty beam.
  Lo! now he conquers; now, subdued awhile,
  Awhile subduing, the departed mist
  Yields in a brighter beam, or darker clouds
  His crimson disk obscure."

The country has now exchanged its refreshing varieties of greens for the hues of saffron, russet,
and dark brown. "The trees," says an amusing observer of nature, "generally lose their leaves
in the following succession:--walnut, mulberry, horse-chestnut, sycamore, lime, ash, then,
after an interval, elm:

  "----'To him who walks
  Now in the sheltered mead, loud roars above,
  Among the naked branches of the elm,
  Still freshening as the hurried cloud departs,
  The strong Atlantic gale.'

"Then beech and oak, then apple and peach trees, sometimes not till the end of November; and
lastly, pollard-oaks and young beeches, which retain their withered leaves till pushed off
by the new ones in spring."

The rural economy of the month is thus described by the same writer:--"The farmer endeavours
to finish his ploughing this month, and then lays up his instruments for the spring. Cattle
are kept in the yard or stable, sheep turned into the turnip-field, or in bad weather fed with
hay, bees moved under shelter, and pigeons fed in the dove-house."

The gardens, for the most part, begin to show the wear of desolation, and but little of their
floral pride remains without doors. Meanwhile, a mimic garden is displayed within, and the
hyacinth, narcissus, &c. are assembled there to gladden us with anticipations of the coming spring.

Though sombre and drear, a November day is a carnival for the reflective observer; the very
falling of the leaves, intercepted in their descent by a little whirl or hurricane, is to him
a feast of meditation, and "the soul, dissolving, as it were, into a spirit of melancholy enthusiasm,
acknowledges that silent pathos, which governs without subduing the heart."--"This season,
so sacred to the enthusiast, has been, in all ages, selected by the poet and the moralist,
as a theme for poetic description and moral reflection;" and we may add that amidst such scenes,
Newton drew the most glorious problem of his philosophy, and Bishop Horne his simple but pathetic
lines on the "Fall of the Leaf,"--lessons of nature which will still find their way to the
hearts of mankind, when the more subtle workings of speculative philosophy shall be forgotten
with their promoters.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

THE ROBBER SPATOLINO.

The history of Spatolino exhibits rather the character of a man bred where men are in a state
of nature, than of one born in the midst of an old European state. This extraordinary character,
furiously irritated against the French, who had invaded Italy, desperately bent himself upon
revenge, and directed his attacks unceasingly upon their battalions. He might perhaps have
become a great general, had he entered the military profession: had he received a competent
education, he might have been a virtuous and eminent citizen. His first crime was an act of
vengeance, and all his following delinquencies flowed from the same source. An enthusiastic
feeling placed the blade in his hand against the invaders of the Roman States, and a superior
sagacity aided his terrible energies. He died stigmatised with the titles of brigand and assassin;
but the French, on whom he had exercised the most striking acts of revenge, were his judges,
his accusers, and executioners. In all his acts the man of courage could be distinguished,
finding resources, in whatever dangers, in his own genius. He never was a traitor himself,
although often betrayed by his most intimate friends. His vindictive exploits were prompt and
terrible. The French greatly dreaded him. His life presents traits truly romantic; sometimes
they may appear exaggerated; but his history is from an authentic source, and from his voluntary
confession.

The reader may wish to know something of the person of Spatolino. He was of low stature, long
visage, fair skin, but his face of an olive pale hue; his eyes of a light blue, and full of
animation; his aspect fierce; hair light; long whiskers; lips pale; broad back; swift of foot;
and particularly animated in his action. He wore a jerkin lined with red, a dark yellow waistcoat,
blue breeches, a breast-pouch with fifty cartridges, four pistols, and a small hanger by his
side. In his breeches-pocket he kept a small stiletto. He also bore a long gun. On his head
he wore continually a net, and upon that his hat. His wife followed him in all his excursions,
and he greatly esteemed and loved her. He remained some time in the mountains near Rome, and
with his associates laid in a store of whatever was necessary for their new avocation. He then
resolved upon proceeding to Sonnino, the common rendezvous of the greater part of the banditti
in the papal states. In Sonnino he found some followers, who, going deeply into his notions,
did not scruple to join him. They swore to entertain an eternal friendship for each other,
implacable hatred against the French, and laid it down as a duty to rob and kill them. Spatolino,
before commencing his career as brigand, repaired to the curate of Sonnino, and requested absolution
for all the crimes he had or might commit; the curate, surprised at this request, observed
to him, that absolution was only given after sins were committed. Spatolino very soon quieted
the scruples of the curate, by making him a present of a very handsome watch; upon which he
immediately raised his hands and gave him the desired absolution. Sonnino may be compared with
Pontus, where Ovid was in exile, and which is thus described by that celebrated author:--"The
men I meet with are not even worthy of the name; they are more fierce than wolves; have no
laws, as with them armed force constitutes justice, and injury rights. They live by rapine,
but seek it not without peril, and sword in hand. Every other way of purveying for their necessities
they view as base and ignominious. It is enough for them to be seen to be hated and dreaded.
The sound of their voice is ferocious; their physiognomy horrible, and their complexion cadaverous."
Just such are the inhabitants of Sonnino and its vicinity at present, and among such Spatolino
came to complete his band, which, when formed in Rome, consisted of seven only.

