From the unwatered drive or tunnel downwards, the method of working as just described may be
characterised as an underground application of the "open-cut system". No elaborate honeycombing
of the country below the water-level will be economically possible as it is when working in
dry rock. But then, again, it is becoming plain to many experts in mining that, in working
downwards from the surface itself, the future of their industry offers a wide field for the
extension of the open-cut system. In proportion as power becomes cheaper, the expense attendant
upon the removal of clay, sand, and rock for the purpose of laying bare the cap of a lode at
a moderate depth becomes less formidable when balanced against the economy introduced by methods
which admit of the miner working in the open air, although at the bottom of a kind of deep
quarry. While the system of close mining will hold its own in a very large number of localities,
still there are other places where the increasing cheapness of power for working an open-cut
and the coincident increase in the scarcity and cost of timber for supporting the ground, will
gradually shift the balance of advantage on to the side of the open method.

At the same time great improvements are now foreshadowed in regard to the modes of working
mines by shafts and drives. Some shafts will in future be worked practically as the vertical
portions of tramways, having endless wire ropes to convey the trucks direct from the face or
the stope to the reduction works, and thus an immense saving will be effected in the costs
incidental to mining. From the neighbourhood of the place at which it has been won, the ore
will be drawn in trucks, attached to the endless wire rope, first along the drive on the horizontal,
and then up an incline increasing in sharpness till the shaft is reached, where the direction
of motion becomes vertical. Near the surface, again, there is an incline, gradually leading
to the level of the ground, or rather of the elevated tramway from which the stuff is to be
tipped into the mill, or, if it be mullock, on to the waste heap. The return of each truck
is effected along the reverse side of the endless wire-rope cable.

Ventilation is an incidental work of much importance which it becomes more practicable to carry
out in a satisfactory manner when an endless system of truck conveyance has been provided,
reaching from the ore-face to the mill, and thence back again. The reason is mainly that the
same routes which have been prepared for this traffic are available for the supply of air and
for the return current which must carry off the accumulated bad gases from the underground
workings. Fans, operated by the cable at various places along the line of communication, keep
up a brisk exchange of air, and the coming and going of the trucks themselves help to maintain
a good, healthy atmosphere, even in the most remote parts of the mine. In very deep mines,
where the heat becomes unbearable after a few minutes unless a strong wind be kept going underground,
the forward and backward courses for traffic and ventilation together are specially advantageous.

Prices during the twentieth century will depend more definitely upon the cost of gold-mining
than they have ever done at any former time in the world's history. In spite of all the opposition
which fanaticism and ignorance could offer to the natural trend of events in the commercial
and financial life of the world, the gold standard now rests on an impregnable base; and every
year witnesses some new triumph for those who accept it as the foundation of the civilised
monetary system. This being the case, it is obvious that the conditions affecting the production
of gold must possess a very peculiar interest even for those who have never lived within hundreds
of miles of any gold mine. To all intents and purposes the habit of every man is to measure
daily and even hourly the value of his efforts at producing what the economist calls "utilities,"
against those of the gold miner.

If, therefore, the latter successfully calls to his aid mechanical giants who render his work
easier and who enable him to throw into the world's markets a larger proportion of gold for
a given amount of effort, the result must be that the price of gold must fall, or, in other
words, the prices of general commodities must rise. If, on the other hand, all other industries
have been subjected to the like improved conditions of working, the effect must be to that
extent to balance the rise and keep prices comparatively steady.

From this point of view it will be seen that the interests of all those who desire to see a
rise in general prices are to a large extent bound up in the improvement of methods for the
extraction of gold. The question of cheap power does not by any means monopolise the data upon
which such a problem can be provisionally decided; and yet it may be broadly stated that in
the main the increased output of gold in the future depends upon the more economical production
and application of power. Measured against other commodities which also depend mainly upon
the same factor, gold will probably remain very steady; while, in contrast with those things
which require for the production taste and skill rather than mere brute force or mechanical
power, gold will fall in value. In other words, the classes of articles and services depending
upon the exercise of man's higher faculties of skill, taste, and mental power will rise in price.

Getting gold practically means, in modern times, crushing stone. This statement is subject
to fewer and fewer exceptions from one decade to another, according as the alluvial deposits
in the various gold-producing countries become more or less completely worked out. A partial
revival of alluvial mining has been brought about through the application of the giant dredger
to cheapening the process of extracting exceedingly small quantities of gold from alluvial
drift and dirt. Yet on the whole it will be found that the gold-mining industry, almost all
the world over, is getting down to the bed-rock of ore-treatment by crushing and by simple
methods of separation. Thus practically we may say that the cost of gold is the cost of power
in those usually secluded localities where the precious metal is found in quantities sufficient
to tempt the investment of capital.

From this it may be inferred that the cheap transmission of power by the electric current will
effect a more profound revolution in the gold-mining industry than in almost any other. The
main deterrent to the investing of money in opening up a new gold mine consists in the fact
that a very large and certain expense is involved in the conveyance of heavy machinery to the
locality, while the results are very largely in the nature of a lottery. When, however, the
power is supplied from a central station, and when economical types of crusher are more fully
introduced, this deterrent will, to a large extent, disappear. The cables which radiate from
the central electric power-house in all directions can be very readily devoted to the furnishing
of power to new mines as soon as it is found that the older ones have been proved unprofitable.

No one will think of carrying ore to the power when it is far more economical and profitable
to carry power to the ore. In this connection the principle of the division of labour becomes
very important. In its bearing upon the mining industry generally, whether in its application
to the precious metals or to those which are termed the baser, and even in the work of raising
coal and other non-metalliferous minerals, the fact that nearly all mines occur in groups will
greatly aid in determining the separation of the work of supplying power, as a distinct industry
from that of mining.

Ore-dressing is an art which was in a very rudimentary state at the middle of the nineteenth
century, when the great discoveries of gold, silver and other metals began to influence the
world's markets in so striking a manner. The ancients used the jigger in the form of a wicker
basket filled with crushed ore and jerked by hand up and down in water for the purpose of causing
the lighter parts to rise to the top, while the more valuable portions made their way to the
bottom. In this way the copper mines of Spain were worked in the days of the Roman Empire,
and probably the system had existed from time immemorial.

Fifty or sixty years ago the miner had got so far as to hitch his jigging basket or sieve on
to some part of his machinery, generally his pumping engine, and thus to avoid the wearing
muscular effort involved in moving it in the water by hand. It was not until the obvious mistake
of using a machine which permitted the finest, and sometimes the richest, parts of the ore
to escape had been for many years ineffectually admitted, that the "vanner," or moving endless
band with a stream of water running on it, was invented with the special object of treating
the finer stuff.

Jiggers and vanners form the staple of the miner's ore-dressing machinery at the present day.
The efficiency of the latter class of separating machines, working on certain kinds of finely
crushed ore, is already so great that it may be said without exaggeration that it could hardly
be much improved upon, so far as percentage of extraction is concerned; and yet the waste of
power which is involved is something outrageous. For the treatment of a thin layer of slimes,
perhaps no thicker than a sixpence, it is necessary to violently agitate, with a reciprocating
movement, a large and heavy framework. Sometimes the quantity of stuff put through as the result
of one horse-power working for an hour is not more than about a hundredweight. The consequence
is that in large mines the nests of vanners comprise scores or even hundreds of machines. When
shaking tables are used, without the addition of the endless moving bands, good work can also
be done; but the waste of power is still excessive.

The vanning spade and shallow washing dish are the prototypes of this kind of ore-dressing
machinery. Let any one place a line of finely-crushed wet ore on a flat spade and draw the
latter quickly through still water, at the same time shaking it, and the result on inspection,
if the speed has not been so great as to sweep all the fine grains off the surface, will be
that the heavier parts of the ore will be found to have ranged themselves on the side towards
which the spade was propelled in its progress through the water. A sheet of glass serves for
the purpose of this experiment even better than a metal implement; but the spade is the time-honoured
appliance among miners for testing some kinds of finely crushed ore by mechanical separation.

It is to be observed that, besides the shaking motion imparted to the apparatus, the only active
agency in the distribution of the particles is the sidelong movement of the spade relatively
to the water. But it makes little or no difference whether the water moves sidelong on the
spade or the latter progresses through the liquid; the ore will range itself accurately all
the same. Consequently, if a circular tank be used, and if the water be set in rotary motion,
the ore on a sheet of glass, held steady, will arrange itself in the same way. If the ore be
fed in small streams of water down the inclined surfaces of sloping glass, or other smooth
shelves set close to and parallel with one another near the periphery of such a vessel of moving
water, the resultant motions of the heavy and of the light particles respectively, in passing
down these shelves, will be found to be so different that the good stuff can be caught by a
receptacle placed at one part, while the tailings fall into another receiver which is differently
situated at the place where the lighter grains fall.

The main essential in this particular application of the art of vanning is simply that the
water should move or drift transversely to lines of ore passing, while held in suspension with
water, down a smooth sloping surface. In dealing with some very light classes of ore, and especially
such as may naturally crush very fine--that is to say, with a large proportion of impalpable
"slimes"--there is a decided advantage in causing the water to drift sidelong on the smooth
shelf by other means than the motion in a circular tank.

Adopting nearly the form of the "side delivery manner," in which the moving band is canted
to the side and the stuff runs off sideways, the sloping smooth shelf can be worked for ore
separation with merely the streams of water holding the fine sand in suspension running down
at fixed intervals. A glass covering is placed very close to this surface on which the streams
run; and between the two is driven laterally a strong current of wind by means of a blast-fan,
which causes each stream of water to drift a little sidewards, carrying with it the lighter
particles, but leaving on its windward side a line of nearly pure ore. These small runlets
can be multiplied, on a shelf measuring six or eight feet in length, to such an extent that
the machine can put through as much ore as a dozen vanners, consuming only a mere fraction
of the power necessary to drive one machine of the older type.

Cyanide solution, instead of water, is very advantageously employed for this kind of operation
in the case of extracting gold from crushed ore. The method is to pump the liquid from the
tanks in which it is stored and to allow it to flow back by way of the vanning apparatus, thus
providing not only for catching the grains of gold by the concentrating machine, but also for
the dissolving of the fine impalpable gold dust, or natural precipitate, by the action of the
cyanide of potassium.

Upon the use of this latter chemical will be based the main improvements in the gold-mining
industry during the twentieth century; and, conversely, the applications of the old system
of amalgamating with mercury, in order to catch the golden particles, will be gradually restricted.
Fine concentrators, worked with cyanide solution, perform three operations at once, namely,
first, the catching of the free gold grains; second, the production of a rich concentrate of
minerals having gold in association and intended for smelting; and, third, the dissolving of
the finest particles by the continual action of the chemical.

In fact it is in the treatment of complex and very refractory ores generally, whether of the
precious or of the baser metals, that the finer applications of the art of the ore-dresser
will receive their first great impetus. The vanner, as well as the jigger, will become an instrument
of precision; and in combination with rushing appliances operated by cheap power in almost
unlimited quantities it will materially assist in multiplying the world's supply of metals.
This again will aid in promoting the further extension of machinery. Gold will be produced
in greater abundance for what is called the machinery of commerce; and the base metals, particularly
the new alloys of steel and also copper and aluminium, will be more largely produced for engineering
and electrical purposes.

The importation--particularly to England and Scotland--of large quantities of highly-concentrated
iron ore will cause one of the first notable developments in the mining and ore-treatment of
the twentieth century so far as the United Kingdom is concerned. The urgent necessity for an
extension in the manufacture of Bessemer steel, and of the new and remarkable alloys in which
very small quantities of other metals are employed in order to impart altogether exceptional
qualities to iron, must accentuate the demand for those kinds of ore which lend themselves
most readily to the special requirements of the works on hand. Hence the question of the transport
of special kinds of iron ore over longer distances will have to be faced (as it has been already
to a limited degree), and not only in reference to ores containing a low percentage of phosphorus
and therefore exceptionally suitable for the Bessemerising process, but also in regard to ores
which are amenable to magnetic separation.

Magnetite, indeed, must bulk more largely in the future as a source of iron, particularly because
it is susceptible of magnetic separation, a process which as yet is only in its infancy. Containing,
as it does, a larger percentage of iron than any other source from which the metal is commercially
extracted, its employment as an ore results in great economy of fuel, as well as a reduction
in the proportionate costs of transport. When ores of iron require to be brought from oversea
places, it is obvious that those which will concentrate to the purest product possible, and
which are in other respects specially applicable to the production of grades of steel of exceptional
tensile strength, will have the preference.

Magnetic concentration, or the separation of an ore from the waste gangue by the attraction
of powerful electro-magnets, must therefore occupy a much more prominent place in the metallurgy
of the future than it has in that of the past. Not only may ironstone containing magnetite
be separated from other material, but several important minerals acquire the property of becoming
magnetic when subjected to the operation of roasting, sometimes through a sulphide being converted
into a magnetic oxide.

By the use of powerful electro-magnets, the poles of which are brought to a point or to a nearly
sharp knife-edge, the intensity of the magnetic field can be so enormously increased that even
minerals which are only feebly magnetic can readily be separated by being lifted away from
the non-magnetic material. In some systems the crushed ore is simply permitted to fall in a
continuous stream through a strong magnetic field, and the magnetic particles are diverted
out of the vertical in their descent by the operation of the magnets.

Nor is it only those minerals that actually become themselves magnetic on being roasted which
can be so differentiated from the material with which they are associated as to be amenable
to magnetic separation. Even differences in hygroscopic properties--that is to say, in the
degree of avidity with which a mineral takes up moisture from the atmosphere--may be made available
for the purpose of effecting a commercially valuable separation. This is especially the case
with some complex ores in which one constituent, on being roasted, acquires a much greater
hygroscopic power than the others, the grains of the crushed and roasted ore becoming damp
and sticky while those of the other minerals remain comparatively dry. By mixing with an ore
of this kind--after it has been allowed to "weather" for a short time--some finely-powdered
magnetite the strongly hygroscopic constituents can be made practically magnetic, because the
magnetic impalpable dust adheres to them, while it remains separate from the grains of the
other minerals.

Hardness--as well as magnetic attraction--is a property of ore which has as yet been made available
to only a very slight extent as the basis of a system of separation. If a quantity of mixed
fragments of glass and plumbago be pounded together in a mortar with only a moderate degree
of pressure, so as to avoid, as far as possible, the breaking of the glass, there will soon
come a stage at which the softer material can be separated from the harder simply by means
of a fine sieve. There are many naturally-existing mineral mixtures in the crushing of which
a similar result occurs in a very marked degree; and, indeed, there are none which do not show
the peculiarity more or less, because the constituents of an ore are never of exactly the same
degree of hardness. When the worthless parts are the softer and therefore have the greater
tendency to "slime," the ore is very readily dressed to a high percentage by means of water.

But when the reverse is the case, and the valuable constituents through their softness get
reduced to a fine pulp long before the other parts, the ordinary operations of the ore-dresser
become much more difficult to carry out. Most elaborate ore-reduction plants are constructed
with the view to causing the crushing surfaces, whether of rolls or of jaws, to merely tap
each piece of stone so as to break it in bits without creating much dust. This operation is
repeated over and over again; but the stuff which is fine enough to go to the concentrator
is removed by sieving after each operation of the kind; and the successive rolls or other crushers
are set to a finer and finer gauge, so that there is a progressive approach to the conditions
of coarse sand, which is that specially desired by the ore-dresser.

Much of this elaboration will be seen to be needless, and, moreover, better commercial results
will be obtained when it is more clearly perceived that the recovery of a valuable ore in the
form of a fine slime may be economically effected by the action of grinders specially constructed
for the purpose of permitting the hard constituents of the ore to remain in comparatively large
grains, while the other and softer minerals are reduced to fine slimes or dust. In other words,
a grinding plant, purposely designed to carry out its work in exactly the opposite way to that
which has been described as the system aimed at in ordinary crushing machinery, has its place
in the future of metallurgy. Light mullers are employed to pound, or to press together, the
crushed grains for a given length of time, and then sieving machinery completes the operation
by taking out the dust from the more palpable grains.

In some cases it will be found that an improvement can be effected by bringing about the separation
of a finer grade of dust than could be taken out by any kind of sieve which is commercially
practicable on the large scale. This is more particularly the case in regard to sulphide ores
containing very friable constituents carrying silver. A fine dry dust-separator may then be
employed constructed on the principle of a vibrating sloping shelf which moves rhythmically,
either in a horizontal circle or with a reciprocal motion, and which at the same time alters
its degree of inclination to the horizontal. When the shelf is nearly level its vibration drives
the coarser particles off; but the very finest dust does not leave it until it assumes nearly
a vertical position. A large nest of similar shelves, set close to, and parallel with, one
another, can separate out a great quantity of well-dried slimes in a very short space of time.

                             CHAPTER IX.

                              DOMESTIC.

The enormous waste involved in the common methods of heating is one of the principal defects
of household economy which will be corrected during the twentieth century. Different authorities
have made varying estimates of the proportion between the heat which goes up the chimney of
an ordinary grate, and that which actually passes out into the room fulfilling its purpose
of maintaining an equable temperature; but it cannot be denied that, at the very least, something
like three-fourths of the heat generated by the domestic fires of even the most advanced and
civilised nations goes absolutely to waste--or rather to worse than waste--because the extra
smoke produced in creating it only serves to pollute the atmosphere. In the cities some degree
of progress has been made in the introduction of heating appliances which really give warmth
to a room without losing at least seventy-five per cent. of their heat; but in the country
districts, where open fireplaces are the rule, it is not unusual to find that more than ninety
per cent. of the heat produced behind the domestic hearth goes up the chimney.

Sentiment has had a great deal to do with retarding progress in the direction of improved house-heating
appliances. For countless ages "the hearth" has been, so to speak, the domestic altar, around
which some of the most sacred associations of mankind have gathered, and popular sentiment
has declared that it is not for the iconoclastic inventor or architect to improve it out of
existence, or even to interfere seriously with either its shape or the position in the living
room from which it sheds its genial warmth and cheerfulness around the family circle. A recognition
of this ineradicable popular feeling was involved in the adoption of the grate, filled with
glowing balls of asbestos composition, by the makers of gas-heating apparatus. The imitation
of the coal-filled grate is in some cases almost perfect; and yet it is in this close approximation
to the real article that some lovers of the domestic fuel-fire find their chief objection,
just as the tricks of anthropoid animals--so strongly reminiscent of human beings and yet distinct--have
the effect of repelling some people far more than the ways of creatures utterly unlike man
in form and feature.

Taking count of the domestic attachment to a real fuel-filled fireplace or grate as one of
the principal factors in the problem of domestic heating, it is plain that one way of obviating
the waste of heat which is at present incurred, without doing violence to that sentiment, is
by making better use of the chimney. The hot-air pipes and coils which are already so largely
used for indoor heating offer in themselves a hint in this direction. Long pipes or coils inserted
in the course taken by the heated air in ascending a chimney become warm, and it is possible,
by taking such a pipe from one part of the room up the passage and back again, to cause, by
means of a small rotating fan or other ventilating apparatus, the whole of the air in the chamber
to circulate up the chimney and back again every few minutes, gathering warmth as it goes.
In this way, and by exposing as much heating surface to the warm air in the chimney as possible,
the warmth derived by an ordinary room from a fuel fire can be more than doubled.

At the same time the risk of spreading "smuts" over the room can be entirely avoided first
by keeping the whole length of pipe perfectly air-tight, and attaching it in such a way as
to be readily removed for inspection; and, secondly, by placing the outward vent in such a
position that the gentle current must mount upwards, and any dust must fall back again into
a wide funnel-shaped orifice, and by covering the latter with fine wire gauze. An apparatus
of this kind acts as a remover of dust from the room instead of adding any to it. One necessity,
however, is the provision of motive power, very small though it be, to work the fan or otherwise
promote a draught.

