Interesting guests came to Tom's house, and I would grow absorbed in their talk.  Not until
we were leaving the table would I realize that my napkin lay neatly folded and squared in the
midst of casually rumpled heaps.

One night, years later, I sat between Jim Hill and Senator Bailey of Texas at a dinner.  Both
men folded their napkins.  I loved them for it.

During that first year Tom made up a little theater party for a classmate who had just married
a Philadelphia girl.  With memories of Ben Franklin, William Penn, Liberty Bell, and all the
grand old characters of the City of brotherly Love, I looked forward eagerly to making a new
friend.

The Philadelphian was even more languid than Tom's mother.  She chopped her words and there
were no r's in her English.  I tried to break the ice by talking of the traditions of her city.
She was bored.  She knew only Philadelphia's social register.  Just to play tit for tat, twice
during the evening I quoted from "Julius Caesar"--and scored!

We had just settled down in old Martin's Restaurant for after-theater supper when two tall
gentlemen entered the room.

"There's Tom Platt and Chauncey Depew," remarked Tom's friend casually.

United States senators are important people in Wisconsin--at least, they were when I was young.
If a senator visited our community, everybody turned out.  I knew much of both these men, and
Tom had often spoken warmly of Depew.  As they approached our table, Tom and his friend both
stood up.  Thrilled, I rose hastily.  My eyes were too busy to see Tom's face, and I did not
realize until afterward that the only other woman had remained coolly seated.

On our way home, Tom told me, in his gentle way, never to rise from a dining table to acknowledge
an introduction even to a woman--or a senator.  That night a tormenting devil with the face
of the other woman kept me awake.  For the first time since my marriage I felt homesick for
the prairies.

And then we were invited to visit Tom's Aunt Elizabeth in Boston and meet the whole family.
I was sick with dread.  I begged Tom to tell me some of the things I should and should not do.

"Be your own sweet self and they 'll love you," he promised, kissing me. He meant it, dear
soul; but I knew better.

From the very first minute, Tom's Aunt Elizabeth made me conscious of her disapproval.  In
after years I won the old lady's affection and real respect, but I never spent a completely
happy hour in her presence.

The night we arrived she gave me a formal dinner.  Some dozen additional guests dropped in
later, and I was bewildered by new faces and strange names.  Later in the evening I noticed
a distinguished-looking middle-aged gentleman standing alone just outside the drawing-room
door. Hurrying out, I invited him to come in.  He inquired courteously if there was anything
he could do for me.

"Yes, indeed," I assured him.  "Come in and talk to me."  He looked shy and surprised.  I insisted.
Then Tom's aunt called me and, drawing me hastily into a corner, demanded why I was inviting
a servant into her drawing-room.

"Servant! He looks like a senator," I protested.  "He's dressed exactly like every other man
at the party and he looks twice as important as most of them."

"Didn't you notice he addressed you as 'Madam'?" pursued Aunt Elizabeth.

"But it 's perfectly proper to call a married woman 'Madam.' Foreigners always do," I defended.

"Can't you tell a servant when you see one?" inquired the old lady icily.

I begged to know how one could.  All Boston was summed up in her answer: "You are supposed
to know the other people."

Tom's wife could have drowned in a thimble.

The third day of our visit, we were at the dinner table, when I saw Aunt Elizabeth's face change--for
the worse.  Her head went up higher and her upper lip drew longer.  Finally she turned to me.

"Why do you cut your meat like a dog's dinner?" she snapped.

Tom's protesting exclamation did not stop her.

I laid my knife and fork on my plate and folded my hands in my lap to hide their trembling.

Time may dim many hurts, but with the last flicker of intelligence I shall remember that scene.
Even then, in a flash, I saw the symbolism of it.

On one side--rare mahogany, shining silver, deft servants, napkins to rumple, leisure for the
niceties of life.  On the other hand--a log cabin, my tired mother with new babies always coming,
father slaving to homestead a claim and push civilization a little farther over our American
continent.

A great tenderness for my parents filled my heart and overflowed in my eyes.  I have, I confess,
had moments of bitterness toward them.  But that was not one of them.

"I think I can tell you," I answered, as quietly as I could.  "It 's very simple.  I was the
first baby, and mother cut up my food for me. After a while she cut up food for two babies.
By the time the third came, I had to do my own cutting.  Naturally, I did it just as mother
had.  Then I began to help cut up food for the other babies.  It 's a baby habit.  And I must
now learn to cut one bite at a time like a civilized grown person."

Even Aunt Elizabeth was silenced.  But Tom rose from the table, swearing.  My father would
not have permitted a cowpuncher to use such language before my mother.  But I loved Tom for it.

However, I did not sleep that night.  Next morning Tom's Aunt Elizabeth apologized, and for
Back Bay was really unbending.

Some days later we returned to New York, and I thought my troubles were over for a time.  But
the first night Tom came home full of excitement. He had been appointed to the diplomatic corps,
and we were to sail for England within a month!

The news struck chill terror to my heart.  With so much still to learn in my native America,
what on earth should I do in English society?

II.

More than two months passed after the night my husband announced his foreign appointment before
we sailed for England.

I planned to study and to have long talks with him about the customs of fashionable and diplomatic
Europe, but alas!  I reckoned without the friends and pretended friends who claim the time
of a man of Tom's importance.  Besides, he and I had so many other things to discuss.

So the sailing time approached, and then he announced that we were to be presented at court!
I was thrilled half with fear and half with joy.

I remembered from my reading of history that some of England's kings had not spoken English
and that French had been the court language.  I visited a bookstore and purchased what was
recommended as an easy road to French, and spent all morning learning to say, "l'orange est
un fruit."  I read the instructions for placing the tongue and puckering the lips and repeated
les and las until I was dizzy.  Then I looked through our bookcases for a life of Benjamin
Franklin.  I knew he had gone to court and "played with queens."

But the great statesman-author-orator gave me no guide to correct form or English social customs.
Instead I grew so interested in the history of his work in England and France and in his inspiring
achievement in obtaining recognition and credit for the United States that dinner time arrived
before I realized I had not discovered what language was spoken at court, nor what one talked
about, nor if one talked at all.

Tom roared when I made my confession.  With his boyish good humor he promised to answer all
my questions on board ship.

So, without a care in those delicious days that followed, I wandered down Sixth Avenue to New
York's then most correct shops, buying clothes and clothes and clothes.  I bought practical
and impractical gifts for the twins back in Wisconsin and for all the family and those good
friends who had helped me through Madison.

The week before we sailed my husband said, out of a clear sky: "Be sure you have the right
clothes, Mary.  The English are a conservative lot." Suddenly I was conscious again that I
did not know the essential things the wife of a diplomat ought to know--what to wear and when,
a million and one tremendous social trifles.

The moment our magnificent liner left the dock I heaved a sigh of relief.  Tom would be mine
for two whole weeks, and all the questions I had saved up would be answered.  That evening
he announced: "We don't dress for dinner the first night out."

"Dress for dinner?" I asked.  "What do you mean?"

And then very gently he gave me my first lesson.  I had never seen anything bigger than a ferry-boat.
How could I guess that even on an ocean liner we did not leave formality behind?  The "party
dresses", so carefully selected, the long, rich velvet cape I had thought outrageously extravagant,
and the satin slippers and the suede--I had packed them all carefully in the trunk and sent
them to the hold of the ship.  But, with the aid of a little cash, the steward finally produced
my treasure trunk, and thereafter I dressed for dinner.

The two weeks I had expected my husband to give me held no quiet hours. There is no such thing,
except when one is seasick, as being alone aboard a ship.  Tom was popular, good at cards and
deck games, always ready to play.  And the fourth day out I was too ill to worry about the
customs at the Court of St. James.

It was not until just before we reached England that I began to feel myself again.  I stood
on deck, thrilled with the tall ships and the steamers, the fishing smacks and the smaller
craft in Southampton harbor.

"What will be the first thing you do in London?" somebody asked me.

"Go to Mayfair to find the home of Becky Sharp," I answered.  Becky Sharp was as much a part
of English history to me as Henry VIII or Anne Boleyn or William the Conqueror.  When my husband
and I were alone he said: "I think they have picked out No. 21 Curzon Street as the house where
Becky Sharp is supposed to have lived.  But what a funny thing for you to want to see first!"

I was quite sure I did not want to drift down the stream with copper kettles.  I only wanted
to be with Tom, to see England with him, to enjoy Dr. Johnson's haunts, to go to the "Cheddar
Cheese" and the Strand, to Waterloo Bridge, and down the road the Romans built before England
was England.

I wanted to see the world without the world seeing me.  In my heart was no desire to be a copper
kettle.  But I had been cast into the stream, and down it I must go, like a little fungus holding
to the biggest copper kettle I knew.

I told my husband this.  It was the first time he had been really irritated with me.  "Why
do you worry about these things?" he protested. "You have a good head and a good education.
You are the loveliest woman in England.  Be your own natural self and the English will love
you." But I remembered another occasion when he had told me to be my own natural sweet self.

"How about what happened to Becky?" I asked.

Tom went into a rage.  "Why do you insist on comparing yourself with that little ------!" The
word he used was an ugly one.  I did not speak to him again until after we had passed the government
inspectors.

I shall never forget my first day in London, the old, quiet city where everybody seemed so
comfortable and easy-going.  There was no show, no pretense.  The people in the shops and on
the street bore the earmarks of thrift.  I understood where New England got its spirit.

The first morning at the Alexandra Hotel, Tom fell naturally into the European habit of having
coffee and fruit and a roll brought to his bed. I wanted to go down to the dining room.  My
husband said it was not done and I would be lonesome.  The days of ranch life had taught me
to get up with the chickens.  But it was not done in London.  The second morning the early
sun was too much for me.  I dressed, left the hotel, and walked for several hours before a
perfect servant brought shining plates and marmalade, fruit and coffee to my big husky football
player's bedside.  I have lived many years in Europe, but I have never grown used to having
breakfast brought to my room.

That second rainy morning Tom left me alone with the promise of being back for luncheon.  I
picked up a London morning paper and glanced at the personal column.  I have read it every
day since when I could get hold of the London Times.  All of human nature and the ups and downs
of man are there, from secondhand lace to the mortgaged jewels of broken-down nobility, from
sporting games and tickets for sale to relatives wanted, and those mysterious, suggestive,
unsigned messages from home or to home.  I read the news of the war.  We in America did not
know there was a war.  But Greece and Crete were at each other's throats, and Turkey was standing
waiting to crowd the little ancient nation into Armenia or off the map.  There was the Indian
famine--We did not talk about it at home, but it had first place in the London paper. And the
Queen's birthday,--it was to be celebrated by feeding the poor of East London and paying the
debts of the hospitals.  There was something so humane, so kindly, so civilized about it all!
"I love England," I said, and that first impression balanced the scale many a time later when
I did not love her.

The third or fourth day brought an invitation to dine at a famous house on Grosvenor Square--with
a duke!

I pestered my husband with questions.  What should I wear?  What should I talk about?  He just
laughed.

The paper had reported a "levee ordered by the queen", describing the gowns and jewels worn
by the ladies.

I had little jewelry--a diamond ring, which Tom gave me before we were married, a bracelet,
two brooches, and a string of gold beads, which were fashionable in America.  I put them all
on with my best bib and tucker.  When we were dressed, Tom gave me one look and said, "Why
do you wear all that junk?"  I took off one of the brooches and the string of gold beads.

When our carriage drew up to the house on Grosvenor Square, liveried servants stood at each
side of the door, liveried servants guided us inside.  There was a gold carpet, paintings of
ladies and gentlemen in gorgeous attire, and murals and tapestries in the marble halls.  But
I quickly forgot all of this grandeur listening to the names of guests being called off as
they entered the drawing-room: Mr. Gladstone and Mrs. Gladstone, Lord Rosebery and the Marquis
of Salisbury, Mrs. Humphry Ward, looking fatter and older than I had expected, officers, colonels,
viscounts, and ladies, and then Tom and Mary--but they were not called off that way.  I wanted
to meet Mr. Gladstone, and hoped I might even be near him at dinner; but I sat between a colonel
and a young captain of the Scots Greys.

Mr. Gladstone was on the other side of the table.  It was a huge table, more than five feet
wide and very long.  My husband was somewhere out of sight at the other end.  Mr. Gladstone
mentioned the fund being raised for the victims of the Paris Opera Comique fire.  It is good
form to be silent in the presence of death, especially when death is colossal, and the English
never fail to follow good form.  There was a sudden lull at our end of the table.

It was I who broke that silence.  I was touched by the generosity of England, and said so.
Since my arrival I had daily noted that England was giving to India, sending relief to Greece
and Armenia, raising a fund for the fire sufferers, and celebrating the Queen's Jubilee by
feeding the poor.  I addressed my look and my admiring words to Mr. Gladstone.

Either my sincerity or the embarrassment he knew would follow my disregard of "the thing that
is done" moved Mr. Gladstone's sympathy. He smiled across the table at me and answered, "I
am so glad you see these good points of England."  It was about the most gracious thing that
was ever done to me in my life.  In England it is bad form to speak across the table.  One
speaks to one's neighbor on the right or to one's neighbor on the left; but the line across
the table is foreign soil and must not be shouted across.

That night my husband said: "I forgot to tell you.  They never talk across the table in England."
I chided him, and with some cause.  I had soon discovered that in England, as in America, it
was not enough to be "my own natural self."  But I came to love Mr. Gladstone.  Long after
that I told him the story of Mrs. Grant, who, when an awkward young man had broken one of her
priceless Sevres after-dinner coffee cups, dropped hers on the floor to meet him on the same
level.  "Any woman who, to put any one at ease, will break a priceless Sevres cup is heroic,"
I said. His answer, though flippant, was pleasant: "Any man who would not smile across the
table at a lovely woman is a fool."

Mr. Gladstone always wore a flower in his button-hole, a big, loose collar that never fitted,
a floppy black necktie, and trousers that needed a valet's attention.  He was the greatest
combination of propriety and utter disregard of conventions I had ever seen.

The event next in importance to a presentation at court was a tea at which the tea planter
Sir Thomas Lipton was one of the guests.  He was not Sir Thomas then, but was very much in
the limelight, having contributed twenty-five thousand pounds to the fund collected by the
Princess of Wales to feed the poor of London in commemoration of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee.

The Earl of Lathom, then the Lord Chamberlain, who looked like Santa Claus and smiled like
Andrew Carnegie, was among the guests; so were Mr. and Mrs. Gladstone.  Since the night he
had talked to me across the table I always felt that Mr. Gladstone was my best friend in England.
He had a sense of humor, so I said: "Is there anything pointed in asking the tea king to a
tea?"  That amused Gladstone.  He could not forgive Lipton parting his hair in the middle.

That night I repeated my joke to Tom.  Instead of smiling, he said: "That's not the way to
get on in England.  It 's too Becky Sharpish."

And then came the day of the queen's salon.  Victoria did not often have audiences, the Prince
of Wales or some other member of the royal family usually holding levees and receiving presentations
in her name.

Tom had warned me that there were certain clothes to be worn at a presentation.  I asked one
of my American friends at the embassy, who directed me to a hairdresser--the most important
thing, it seemed, being one's head.  She told me also to wear full evening dress, with long
white gloves, and to remove the glove of the right hand.

The hairdresser asked about my jewels.  Remembering what Tom had said about "junk", I said
I would wear no jewels.  She was horrified, I would have to wear some, she insisted, if only
a necklace of pearls.  She tactfully suggested that if my jewels had not arrived I could rent
them from Mr. Somebody on the Strand.  It was frequently done, she said, by foreigners.

My friend at the embassy was politely surprised that Tom's wife would think of renting real
or imitation jewels.  In the end I insisted upon going without jewels.  I had the required
plumes in my hair, and the veil that was correct form at court, and my lovely evening gown
and pearl-embroidered slippers, which were to me like Cinderella's at the ball.

Before I left the hotel I asked Tom to look at me critically.  I was still young--very young,
very much in love, and unacquainted with the ways of the world, and so heaven came down into
my heart when Tom took me into his arms and, kissing me, said: "There was never such a lovely
queen."

It was about three o'clock when we reached the Pimlico entrance. Guards were on duty, and men
who looked like princes or very important personages in costume, white stockings, black pumps,
buckles, breeches, and gay coats, stood at the door.  Inside the hall a gold carpet stretched
to the marble stairs.  It was a wonderful place, and I wanted to stop and look.  I was conscious
of being a "rubber-neck."  I might never see another palace again.

We were guided up wonderful stairs and led into a sumptuous room, where, with the other guests,
we waited for the arrival of the queen and the royal family.  No one does anything or says
anything at a salon.  A "drawing-room" is a sacred rite in England.  It is recorded on the
first page of the news, taking precedence over wars, decisions of supreme courts, famines,
and international controversies.  Her Majesty receives. To the Englishman, to be presented
at court is to be set up in England as class, to be worshiped by those who have not been in
the presence of the queen, and to pay a little more to the butcher and milliner.

I should have loved that "drawing-room" if I could have avoided the presentation.  It was an
impressive picture--the queen with a face like a royal coin, a fine, generous forehead and
beautiful nose, her intelligent and kindly eyes, her ample figure, her dignity come from long,
long years of rule.  Back of her the Prince of Wales and the Prime Minister, who in later years
I found myself always comparing to little Mr. Carnegie, the Viscount Curzon with his royal
look, and in the foreground Sir S. Ponsonby-Fane, in white silk stockings, pumps and buckles,
with sword and gold lace, and high-collared swallow-tailed coat.  I admired the queen's black
moire dress, her headdress of priceless lace, her diamonds, her high-necked dress held together
with more diamonds, and her black gloves, in striking contrast to our own.  I was enjoying
the picture.

Then my name was called.

I had been thinking such kindly things of England--Mr. Balfour fighting for general education;
Mr. Gladstone struggling to make England push Turkey back and save Greece; all England raising
money for the fire sufferers of Paris and the Indian famine.  What a humanitarian race they
were!  I felt as pro-England as any of the satellites in that room, and almost as much awed.
But back of it all was a natural United States be-natural-as-you-were-born impulse.  Neither
Back Bay Boston nor Tom's Philadelphia friends had been able to repress it.  When my name was
called and I stepped up, I made the little bow I had practised for hours the day before and
that morning; and then, as I looked into the eyes of the queen, I held out my hand!  It was
the instinctive action of a free-born American.

I have realized in the years since what a real queen she was.  Smiling, she extended her hand--but
not to be touched.  It was a little wave, a little imitation of my own impulsive outstretching
to a friend; then her eyes went to the next person, and I was on my way, having been presented
at court and done what "is not done" in England.

Tom's mission in England was important.  He had friends, and there were distinguished people
in England who regarded him and his family of sufficient value to "take us aboard."  They were
most gracious and kindly.  But Tom's eyes were not smiling.

That night my husband said some very frank things to me.  His position, and even the credit
of our country to some extent, depended upon our conduct.  He did not say he was ashamed of
me, and in my heart I do not think he was; but he regretted that I had not been trained in
the little things upon which England put so much weight.  He suggested my employing a social
secretary.

"What I need, Tom," I said, "is a teacher.  You have told me these customs are not important.
They are important.  I need some one to teach them to me, and I propose to get a teacher."

In the personal columns of the Times I had read this advertisement:

         'A lady of aristocratic birth and social training
          desires to be of service to a good-paying guest.'

I swallowed my pride and answered it.  I was not her paying guest, but I employed this Scotch
lady of aristocratic birth and social experience.

On the first day at luncheon, which we ate privately in my apartment, she said: "In England
a knife is held as you hold a pen, the handle coming up above the thumb and between the thumb
and first finger."  My sense of humor permitted me to ask, after trying it once, "What do you
do when the meat is tough?"  The Scotch aristocrat never smiled.  "It is n't," she answered.

I was humiliated and a little soul-sick before that luncheon ended. I had been told to break
each bite of my bread; a lady never bites a piece of bread.  I had been told to use a knife
to separate my fish, when I had learned, oh, so carefully, in America to eat fish with a fork
and a piece of bread.  I might have laughed about it all had not so much been at stake, even
Tom's respect.

III.

The Scotch lady of aristocratic birth and social experience lived with me one terrible week.
On the seventh day I came home from shopping with presents for the twins back in Wisconsin.
A day or so earlier, while my mentor was out of the room, I had asked the chef waiter of our
floor about himself and his family, and found that his family too included twins.  So with
the present for my family I also brought some for his.

Mr. MacLeod, the member of Parliament from Scotland, and Lord Lansdowne happened to be calling
when I arrived, and Tom and the Scotch lady were there.  The chef waiter was taking the coats
of the gentlemen callers. I received the guests, acknowledged the introductions, and then,
as I removed my own coat, I handed him the little package.

When we were alone the Scotch lady turned to me.  "In England," she said, "ladies never converse
with their servants, particularly in the presence of guests."

Then she sealed her doom.  "Ladies never make gifts to their servants," she added.  "Their
secretaries, housekeepers, or companions disburse their bounty."

I remembered the old U. S. A.  An American chef waiter might hope to be the father of a President.
On the ranch I had cooked for men of less education and much worse manners than this domestic
who brought my athletic husband's breakfast to his bedside and who happened to be the proud
father of twins.

I would learn table manners from an English lady of aristocratic birth and social experience;
but when it came to the human act of a little gift to a faithful servant, I declared my American
independence.

I was homesick for Wisconsin, homesick for real and simple people. I wanted to go home!  That
night Tom and I had our first real quarrel, and it was over my dismissal of the Scotch lady
of aristocratic birth. Life became intolerable for a while.  I dragged through days of bitter
homesickness.  Nothing seemed real.  No one seemed sincere.  Life was a stage.  Everybody seemed
to be acting a part and speaking their pieces with guttural voices.  Even my husband's voice
sounded different--or else I realized for the first time that Boston apes London English. 
Tom had learned his mother tongue in Boston, and now suddenly he seemed like a foreigner to
me simply because he spoke like these other foreigners. The sun went out of my heaven.  I was
dumb with loneliness and sick with the fear of lost faith.  Could it be that my husband was
affecting these English mannerisms?  Certainly he seemed at home in England, while I seemed
to be adrift, alone in an arctic ocean.

I had no friend in England, and more and more my husband's special work was engrossing him.
When we were together I felt tongue-tied.  He had tried to be gentle with me; but I was strange
in this world of his, and lonely and sensitive.  I had dreamed so much of this world, and now
that I was in it, it was false and petty.  I longed for the United States, for my Northwest,
for my hills and wide, far plains.  I wanted to meet somebody from Madison who smiled like
a friend.

One day Tom looked at me searchingly, and said I must be ill.

I confessed to a little homesickness.  Tom became very attentive. He took me sightseeing. 
We lunched at the quaint inn where Dickens found his inspiration for "Pickwick Papers" and
where the literary lights of London foregathered and still foregather for luncheon.  We sat
in one of the cozy little stalls--just Tom and I.

Suddenly it swept over me that life had gone all wrong.  Here was a dream come true, and no
joy in my heart.  Tom asked me for my thoughts. I told him, quite frankly, I was thinking of
home.  I was thinking of mother in her cotton house dress with her knitted shawl around her
shoulders, of father in his jeans and high boots tramping over the range with the men; I saw
the cow and the pigs and the chickens, the smelly corral and the water hole, the twins trying
to rub each other's face in the mud.  And I was thinking--Tom would n't fit into my world,
and I could not belong to his.  That was the second time I heard Tom swear. He wanted to know
what kind of a snob I thought he was.  He'd be as much at home with dad on the ranch as he
was in London.  "The fault is with you," he said.  "You 're not adaptable, and you don't try
to be."

Tom did n't understand.  He never did.  In all the years together, which he made so rich and
happy, Tom never understood how hard and bitter a school was that first year of my married
life.  But Tom did try to give me a good time in London.  He took me to interesting places
and we were entertained by a number of people, mostly ponderous and stupid.  Tom did not suggest
that we entertain in our turn.  I think he felt I was not ready for it, although even in after
years, when we talked frankly about many things, he would never admit this.

I shall never forget my first week-end party in England.  I was not well, and Tom, manlike,
felt sure the change, a trip down to Essex and new people, would do me good.  The thought of
the country and a visit with some good simple country folk appealed to me too, so I packed
the bags and met Tom at Victoria Station at eleven o'clock.  Alas! It is a far cry from a Montana
ranch to a gentleman's estate in England!  My vision of a quiet visit "down on a farm" vanished
the minute we stepped off the train.  Liveried coachmen collected our baggage.  They seemed
to be discussing something; then I heard Tom say: "I guess that 's all. I 'll wire back for
the rest of it."

We were led to a handsome cart drawn by a fine tandem team, and Tom and I were alone for a minute.

"My God, Mary!" he burst out, "didn't you bring any clothes for us?"

"I certainly have," I retorted, sure I was in the right this time. "Your nightshirt and my
nightgown; your toilet articles and mine; a change of underclothes; a clean shirt and two collars
for you, and my new striped silk waist."

I shall never forget Tom's expression.

"Do you know where we are going?" he groaned.  "To one of the grandest houses in England! 
Oh, Lord! I ought to have told you.  You 'll need all the clothes you have down here.  And--and
a valet and maid will unpack the bags--oh, hell!"  After more of the same kind of talk, he
began to cook up some yarn to tell the valet.

Suddenly all that is free-born in me rose to the surface.  "Is it the thing for gentlemen to
be afraid of the valet?" I asked my husband. "Does a servant regulate your life and set your
standards?"

Tom was quiet for several moments; then he took my hand and said very earnestly: "Mary, don't
you ever lose your respect for the real things. It will save both of us."  After a while he
added: "Just the same, I 'll have to lie out of this baggage hole."

He did, in a very casual, laughing way--such a positive set of lies that I marveled and began
to wonder how much of Tom was acting and how much was real.

Tom went back to London on the next train, and reached the "farm" with our baggage before it
was time to dress for the eight-o'clock dinner.

The dinner was long and stupid.  After dinner the women went into the drawing-room and gossiped
about politics and personalities until the men joined them, when they sat down to cards.  I
did not know how to play cards, and so was left with a garrulous old woman who had eaten and
drunk over-much.

It had been a long day for me.  I was ill and tired.  Suddenly sleep began to overpower me.
I batted my eyes to keep them open.  I tried looking at the crystal lights, but my leaden eyes
could not face them. The constant drone of that old woman was putting me to sleep.  I tried
to say a few words now and then to wake myself.  I felt myself slipping. Once my head dropped
and came up with a jerk.  I watched the great French clock.  Its hands did not seem to move.
I looked at Tom.  He was absorbed in his game.  I could not endure it another minute.  I went
over and said good night to my hostess who had spoken to me only once since my arrival.

Drowsy as I was, I noticed she seemed surprised.  "Oh, no," I told her; "I am not ill, only
very sleepy."

How good my pillow felt!

The next morning Tom was cross.  I had made a faux pas.  I had shown I was bored and peeved
and had gone to bed before the hostess indicated it was bedtime.  It "was n't done" in England.

"What do you do if you can't keep awake?" I asked.  "You slip out quietly, go to your room
ask a maid to call you after you have had forty winks, then you go back and pretend you are
having a good time," said Tom.

There were some bitter hours after we got back to London.  But Tom won, and I promised to get
a companion.  Then there came into my life the most wonderful of friends.  She was the widow
of a British Army officer who had been killed in India, and her only child was dead.  She was
a woman of education and heart; she understood my needs, all of them, and I interested her.
She had seen great suffering; she had a deep feeling for humanity and an honest desire to be
of use in the world.  In the English register my companion was listed as the Honorable Evelyn,
but we quickly got down to Mary and Eve.  We loved each other.  Eve went to France with us
a few months later.  She made me talk French with her. My first formal dinner in France was
a pleasant surprise.  It was like a great family party--not dull and quiet like the English
dinner, and ever so much more fun.  Everybody participated.  If there was one lion at the table,
everybody shared him.

There is something in being born on a silken couch.  Nothing surprises you.  You are at ease
anywhere in the world.  Eve fitted into Paris as naturally as in her native London, I began
to feel at home there myself. It was a city of happy people--care free, natural, sympathetic.
There was a lack of restraint which, after the oppressive dignity of London, was a rare treat.
No one was critical.  Every one accepted my halting and faulty French without ridicule or condescension.
The amiability and the friendliness of the French people thawed my heart and began to lift
me out of my slough of homesickness.  Happiness came back to me.

There had been hours in England when only the knowledge that a woman's rarest gift was coming
to me, and that Tom was proud and happy about it, kept me from running away--back to the simple
life of my own United States.

I was homesick for mother.  Babies were a mystery to me, although I had helped mother with
all of hers.  We had buried three of them in homemade coffins--pioneering is a ruthless scythe,
and only the fit survive.  I began to understand my mother and the glory in the character which
never faltered, although she was alone and life had been hard.  How could I whine when I had
Tom and a good friend--and life was like a playground?

I loved the French.  They regard life with a frankness which sometimes shocked my reserved
Boston husband.  He never accepted intimacy.  The restraint of old England was still in his
blood.  The free winds of the prairie had swept it from mine.

My new friends in Paris discovered my happy secret.  It was my all-absorbing thought, and I
was delighted to be able to discuss it frankly.  Motherhood is the great and natural event
in the life of a woman in France, and no one makes a secret of it.  I was very happy in Paris.
And then--Tom had to go to Vienna.

Not even Tom, Eve, and the promised baby could make me happy there.  In all the world I had
seen no place where the line of class distinction was so closely drawn, where social customs
were so rigid and court forms so sacred, as at the Austrian capital.  Learning the social customs
of Vienna seemed as endless as counting the pebbles on the beach--and about as useful.  The
clock regulated our habits in Vienna.  Up to eleven o'clock certain attire was proper.  If
your watch stopped you were sure to break a social law.  I once saw a distinguished diplomat
in distress because he found himself at an official function at eleven-thirty with a black
tie--or without one, I have forgotten which!

At first it offended me to receive an invitation--or a command--to appear at a formal function,
with an accompanying slip telling exactly what to wear.  Then I laughed about it.

Finally I rebelled.  On the plea of ill health, I made Tom do the social honors for me, while
Eve and I did the museums and the galleries and the music fetes.  Years later I went back to
Vienna, and I did not discredit my country.  But I never loved the city.  I enjoyed its art,
its fascinating shops, its picturesque streets and people, and its beautiful women.  But for
me Vienna has the faults of France and England, the poverty and arrogance of London, and the
frivolity of Paris, without their redeeming qualities.

So I was glad to return to England.  The second day in London, Tom took me to an exhibition
important in the art world, or at least in the official life of London.  Everybody who was
somebody was there.  I saw the Princess of Wales and the Marquis of Salisbury, who was then
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.  I saw Mr. Balfour, so handsome and gracious that I
refused to believe there had ever been cause to call him "Bloody Balfour."  There was something
kingly about him--yet he was simply Mr. Balfour.  Years afterward I realized that to know Mr.
Balfour is either to worship him or hate him.  No one takes the middle course. I had begun
to have a beautiful time that afternoon.

I felt happy, acutely conscious of my blessings and of one coming blessing in particular. 
Mr. Gladstone joined us, and Sir Henry Irving came over to speak to Eve.  She told him I had
just said that England had a mold for handsome men.  Irving was interesting and striking, though
certainly not handsome; but he took the compliment to himself, smiled, bowed his thanks, and said:

"And America for beautiful women."

Mr. Gladstone, too, could indulge in small talk.  "You should have seen her rosy cheeks before
she went to the Continent," he said, and added kindly that I looked very tired and should go
down to Hawarden Castle and rest.

