This affair of T. and X., dearest Franz, has become very significant to me. It has shown me
most clearly and definitely that even amongst the best of friends a certain mode of action
may be perverted beyond recognition into its very opposite; and I look with horror upon the
cares of this world, where everything is ruled by confusion and error to the verge of madness.
It was absolutely terrible to me to read your charges against T. What I felt is difficult to
describe; it was like a longing for death. About this young T. I recently wrote to you in a
very unconventional manner. Two things make me overlook all his shortcomings, and attach me
to him to such a degree that I feel inclined to place much confidence in him. One of them is
his boundless love for you, the absolute abandonment of his impertinence as soon as you are
mentioned, his most tender and deep reverence for you; the other, the beautiful warmth and
genuine friendship which he shows at every moment for X. In the present case also he defended
the latter in a really touching manner, and speaks of him always with enthusiastic praise of
his heart and his intellect. Were it not for these two traits I should not know what to think
of this young man, who speaks of God and the world in the most ruthless manner. Curiously enough,
your reproach hit him in this particular point, and when he showed me your letter there was
a peculiar desperate question in his glance. With such experiences the boy will become quickly,
almost too quickly, mature.

My words will show you how deeply this matter has affected me; it is one of the thousand things
which, when they occur to me, estrange me more and more from this world.

Farewell, and write to me again soon.

Always cordially your

R. W.

263.

I cannot understand in what manner I have caused YOU grief, but I feel the painful rebound
of your wounded heart. My admonition to T. proceeded from a pure cause. X. himself knew nothing
of it, and T. would have done well if he had kept silence towards you. "Insinuations" and "diplomacy"
are surely out of the question. I greatly dislike mixing myself up with other people's affairs,
and if I have done so this time, it was certainly not because I was led to it by others (I
give you my word, that not a word has been said or written about the whole matter), but merely
because it had been imposed upon me as a kind of duty to act as guardian to T., and it appeared
only too probable that his conduct had not been very correct. The young Titan sometimes gives
way to an absence of mind and a state of overexcitement, against which those who wish him well
should warn him. His exceptional talent and his genial and prepossessing manner generally incline
me towards being overindulgent with him, and I do not deny my genuine love and partiality for
this remarkable specimen of a "Liszt of the future," as T. has been called at Vienna. But for
that very reason I expect him to be a good and steady fellow in all respects.

Be thanked for the kindly friendship and care you bestow upon him. I hope he will not only
profit by them, but honour them. The rare happiness of living near you, and of being distinguished
by you, should form and mature him as an artist and as a man.

Ever thine,

F. L.

July 18th, 1858.

264.

DEAREST RICHARD,

Before the 18th inst. I cannot get away from here; the centenary celebration of Jena University
will take place on the 15th, 16th, and 17th, and I have promised to take part in it. Apart
from this, I expect in a few days a visit, which is of importance to me.

It was my intention to see you at the beginning of September, but I will gladly undertake the
journey a few weeks sooner. You on your part must delay your journey by a fortnight, and write
to me by return whether I shall find you at Zurich on the 20th instant. I should, of course,
not make this journey unless I could be certain of being a few days with you. Trips of pleasure
or recreation are not my affair any longer, and I could not consent to one. On the other hand,
I shall be genuinely pleased to see you again.

Your

F. LISZT.

August 6th, 1858.

265.

GENEVA, August 20th, 1858.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Kindly make inquiries whether I might stay a short time at Venice which does not belong to
the German confederacy without being claimed, extradited and otherwise molested. The vise of
my passport I got from the Austrian minister without any difficulty. I daresay the Saxon minister
would have given me his vise too (in order to get hold of me).

If there is any danger, kindly let the Grand Duke intercede for me, so that I may stay at Venice
without being bothered.

I should be very thankful to him, for that quiet, interesting city tempts me greatly. I shall
delay my departure till I hear from you; in any case I must wait till the heat is over.

Farewell, and be thanked for all your friendship.

Your

R. W.

MAISON FAZY, 30 ETAGE.

266.

GENEVA, August, 24th, 1858.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Best thanks for your reply. It somewhat startled me, and I made inquiries through a friend
in Berne of the Austrian minister there. I enclose his answer, from which you will see that
for the present I have nothing to fear at Venice. Whether they will allow me to stay there
for any length of time is a different question which is of great importance to me. I feel the
necessity of living in strict seclusion for some considerable period, in order to devote myself
entirely to my work. The country will not, in the long run, do for this, and in an indifferent
town I might, at last, be reduced to making acquaintance with commonplace people-- the worst
of all evils. One of the interesting, large cities of Italy is exactly what I want. In such
surroundings one can most easily keep to oneself, for every walk presents objects of an important
kind, and satisfies the want of men and things. But in large towns the noise of carriages is
absolutely unbearable to me; it drives me wild. Venice is notoriously the quietest, i.e., most
noiseless city in the world, which has decided me in its favour. Apart from this Dr. W. and
K.R. have given me the most attractive accounts of life in Venice; the latter will spend the
winter there. Finally, Venice is more convenient for my frequent communications with Germany
than any other Italian town would be; by way of Vienna my letters, etc., will reach the centre
of Germany in no time. In short, I am obstinately fixed on Venice, and do not want to think
of any other choice, because it is not travelling about, but settling down as soon as possible
that I care for.

Listen, therefore. Kindly ask the Grand Duke in my name, for the special favour of securing
for me, by his intercession in Vienna, an undisturbed sojourn in Venice. This is indispensable
for my future, for such a permission would permanently open to me Venice and Austrian Italy
generally. Let therefore the Grand Duke show himself my well-inclined protector, and do all
in his power to comply with my wish.

It will further be necessary that your friend should graciously take the necessary steps as
soon as possible. If, in the meantime, I should get into difficulties, I should at once claim
his protection.

Therefore, please, please go to court at once! Help me and do what I wish.

From Venice I shall write again; till then continue to love me.

Your

R. W.

VENICE, poste restante.--Depeche telegraphique.

BERNE, Le 24 Aout, Tuesday, 1858.

To RICHARD WAGNER,

Geneva,

Maison Fazy.

Austrian minister thinks you have nothing to fear if your passport has the Austrian vise. He
can guarantee nothing, but is morally certain that you will not be molested.

