“‘When I come again what shall I bring you?’ said Mr. Smith, in most reckless fashion, to the
Egyptian Queen.  ‘Well,’ said she, without a moment’s hesitation, ‘if there is one thing more
than another that I do want, it’s a silk handkercher for my head—a real Bandana.’  The request
was characteristic.  Of the tales we heard one or two were curious, one positively laughable,
and one related to a deed of blood.  Mr. Smith, going into a tent, found an aged Gipsy woman,
to whom he told the object of his visiting the Gipsies, and what he hoped to accomplish for
the children, and she forwith handed him a money gift.  On more than one occasion a well-polished
silver coin of small value, a penny, or a farthing has been quietly put into Mr. Smith’s hands,
in furtherance of his work, by some poor Gipsy woman.  The story which made us laugh was of
a Gipsy marriage.  It is one of the unwritten laws of Gipsy life that the wife works while
the husband idles about the tent.  The wife hawks with the basket or the cart and sells, while
the husband loiters about the encampment or cooks the evening meal.  But one young Gipsy fell
in love with an Irish girl named Kathleen, and from the day of their marriage Tom never had
an idle moment.  In vain did he plead the usages of Gipsy married life.  Kathleen was deaf
to all such modes of argument, and drove her husband forth from tent and encampment, by voice
or by stake, until she completely cured him of his idleness, and she remained mistress of the
field.  Whenever a young Gipsy is supposed to be courting a stranger, the fate of Tom at the
hands of Kathleen is told him as a warning. During the afternoon we were continually exhorted
to see ‘Granny’ before we left.  Every one spoke of her with respect, and when we were about
to leave, Patience offered to show us ‘Granny’s tent.’  Repentance joined her sister, and before
we were up and out of the tent opening, we saw Patience at a tent not far off; she dived head
and shoulders through an opening she made, and then appeared to be pulling vigorously.  Her
activity was soon explained.  We thrust our heads through the opening, and were face to face
with a shrivelled-faced old woman, whose cheeks were like discoloured parchment, and whose
hands and arms appeared to be mere bones.  But her eye was bright, and her tongue proved her
to be in possession of most of her faculties.  She could not stand or walk, nor could she sit
up for many minutes at a time, and the action of Patience was caused by her hastily seizing
the old woman by her arms as she lay on her straw floor, and dragging her into a sitting position.
If the old dame had been asleep, Patience had thoroughly aroused her.  She greeted us with
Gipsy courtesy, and told us she was ‘fourscore and six years of age.’  Her name, in answer
to our query, she said was ‘Sinfire Smith.’ ‘Why, that’s the same as mine,’ said Mr. Smith.
‘O, likely,’ said Sinfire, ‘the Smiths is a long family.’  For four score and six years poor
Sinfire has led a Gipsy life, and though her house now is only a tent, and her bed and bedding
straw, she made no moan, and there was nothing she wished to have.”

    “Farewell, farewell! so rest there, blade!
    Entomb me where our chiefs are laid;
    But, hark, methinks I hear the drum,
    I would that holy man were come.”—HARRIS.

    “What sound is that as of one knocking gently?
    Yet who would enter here at hour so late?
    Arise! draw back the bolt—unclose the portal.
    What figure standeth there before the gate?  The Parliament, like the Times, follows
upon the heels of public opinion in all measures concerning the welfare
of the nation; and it is well it should be so.  An Englishman will be led
by a child; but it requires a strong hand and a sharp whip to drive him.
One hundred and forty years ago the Wesleys and Whitfield caused a
commotion in the religious world.  Upwards of a century ago the first
canal in this country was opened for the conveyance of goods upon our
silent highways, and trade began in earnest to show signs of life and
activity.  A century ago Robert Raikes, of Gloucester, opened his first
Sunday-school—the beginning of a system ever widening and expanding,
carrying with it blessings incomprehensible to finite minds, and only to
be revealed in another world.  Nearly a century ago Raper’s translation
of Grellmann’s “Dissertation on the Gipsies” was published, and which
caused no little stir at the time, being the first work of any kind worth
notice that had appeared.  Seventy years ago an interesting
correspondence took place in the Christian Observer upon the condition
of the Gipsies, and various lines of missionary action were suggested;
but no plan was adopted, and all words blown to the wind.  Then, as now,
people would look at the Gipsies in their pitiable condition, and with a
shrug of the shoulders would say, “Poor things,” and away they would go
to their mansions, doff their warm winter clothing, put on their
needleworked slippers, stretch their legs before a blazing fire in the
drawing-room, and call “John” to bring a box of the best cigars, the
champagne, dry sherry, and crusted port, and then noddle off to sleep.
Sixty-four years ago Hoyland’s “Historical Survey of the Gipsies” made
its appearance, a work that caught the fire and spirit of Grellmann’s,
the object of both being to stir up the missionary zeal of this country
in the cause of the Gipsies.  Fifty years ago James Crabb began his
missionary work among the Gipsies at Southampton, and for a while did
well; but in course of time, owing to the Gipsies moving about, as in the
case of “Our Canal Population,” the work dwindled down and down, till
there is not a vestige of this good man’s efforts to be seen.  About the
same time that Crabb was at work among the Gipsies missionary efforts
were put in motion to improve the canal-boatmen, and mission stations
were established at Newark, Stoke-on-Trent, Aylesbury, Oxford,
Birmingham, and other places, but fared the same fate as the missionary
effort of Crabb and others among the Gipsies.  Fifty years ago railways
were opened, which gave an impetus to trade never experienced before.
Fifty years ago the preaching of Bourne and Clowes was causing
considerable excitement in the country.  Nearly fifty years ago witnessed
the passing of the Reform Bill, and the Factory Act received the Royal
signature.  Forty years have passed away since George Borrow’s missionary
efforts among the Gipsies were prominently before the public, which, sad
to say, shared the fate of Crabb’s, Hoyland’s, Roberts’, and Raper’s.
From that day till now, except the spasmodic efforts of a clergyman here
and there, or some other kind-hearted friend, these 20,000 poor slighted
outcasts have been left to themselves to sink or swim as they thought
well.  The only man, except the dramatist and novelist, who has seemed to
notice them has been the policeman, and his vigilant eye and staff have
been used to drive them from their camping-ground from time to time, and
thus—if possible—made their lives more miserable, and created within them
deeper-seated revenge, owing to the way in which they are carrying out
the Enclosures Act.  All missionary efforts put forth to improve the
condition of the factory operative and canal-boatmen, previous to the
passing of the Factory Act, nearly fifty years since, and the Canal Boats
Act of 1877, were fruitless and unprofitable.  The passing of the Factory
Act has done more for the children in one year than all the missionaries
in the kingdom could have done in their lifetime.  Similar results are
the outcome of the Brickyard Act of 1871, as touching the welfare of the
children.  And so in like manner it will be with the Canal Boats Act when
properly carried out, the canal-boat children of to-day, in fifty years
hence, will be equal to other working classes.  From the days of Hoyland,
and Borrow, and Crabb, down to the present time, but little seems to have
been done for the Gipsies.  With Crabb died all real interest in the
welfare of these poor unfortunate people.  The difficulties he had
encountered seemed to have had a deterrent effect upon others.
Missionary zeal, without moral force of law and the schoolmaster, will
accomplish but little for the Gipsies at our doors; and it may be said
with special emphasis as regards the improvement of the Gipsy children.
From the days of the relentless, cruel, and merciless persecution the
Gipsies received under the reigns of Henry VIII. and Elizabeth, down to
the present time, nothing has been done by law to reclaim these Indian
outcasts and Asiatic emigrants.  The case of the Gipsies shows us plainly
that hunting the women and children with bloodhounds, and dragging the
Gipsy leaders to the gallows, will neither stamp them out nor improve
their character and habits; and, on the other hand, it appears that the
love-like gentleness, child-like simplicity, and religious fervour of the
circumscribed influence of Crabb and others, about this time, did but
little for these poor, little, dark-eyed, wandering brethren of ours from
afar.  The next agents that appeared upon the scene to try to elevate the
Gipsies into something like a respectable position in society were the
dramatists and novelists.  These flickering lights of the night have met
with no better success, in fact, their efforts, in the way they have been
put forth, have, as a rule, exhibited Gipsy life in a variety of false
colours and shades, which exhibition has turned out to be a failure in
accomplishing the object the authors had in view, other than to fill
their coffers and mislead the public as to the real character of a Gipsy
vagabond’s life; and thus it will be seen, I think, that the Gipsies and
their children of to-day present to us the miserable failure, of bitter
persecution in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the efforts of
Christianity alone at the beginning of the nineteenth century, and more
recently the novelist and dramatist as a means in themselves, separately,
to effect a reformation in the habits and character of the Gipsy children
and their parents.

If the Gipsy and other tramping, travelling “rob rats” of to-day are to become honest, industrious,
and useful citizens of the future, it must be by the influence of the schoolmaster and the
sanitary officer, coming to a great extent as they do between the fitful and uncertain efforts
of the missionary, the relentless hands of persecution, the policeman, and the stage.

From the time the Gipsies landed in this country in 1515, down to the time when Raper’s translation
of Grellmann’s work appeared in 1787, a period of 272 years, nothing seems to have been done
to improve the Gipsies, except to pass laws for their extermination.  The earliest notice of
the Gipsies in our own country was published in a quarto volume in the year 1612, the object
of which was to expose the system of fortune-telling, juggling, and legerdemain, and in which
reference is made to the Gipsies as follows:—“This kind of people about a hundred years ago
beganne to gather an head, as the first heere about the southerne parts.  And this, as I am
imformed and can gather, was their beginning: Certain Egyptians banished their country (belike
not for their good conditions) arrived heere in England, who for quaint tricks and devices,
not known heere at that time among us, were esteemed and had in great admiration; insomuch
that many of our English loyterers joined with them, and in time learned their crafty cosening.
The speech which they used was the right Egyptian language, with whom our Englishmen conversing
at least learned their language.  These people continuing about the country and practising
their cosening art, purchased themselves great credit among the country people, and got much
by palmistry and telling of fortunes; insomuch they pitifully cosened poor country girls, both
of money, silver spoons, and the best of their apparalle or other goods they could make.” 
And he goes on to say, “But what numbers were executed on these statutes you would wonder;
yet, notwithstanding, all would not prevaile, but they wandered as before uppe and downe and
meeting once a year at a place appointed; sometimes at the Peake’s Hole in Derbyshire, and
other whiles by Ketbroak at Blackheath.”  The annual gathering of the Gipsies and others of
the same class, who make Leicestershire, Derbyshire, Nottinghamshire, Staffordshire and neighbouring
counties, their head-quarters, takes place at the well-known Bolton Fair, held about Whitsuntide,
on the borders of Leicestershire, a village situated in a kind of triangle, between Leicestershire,
Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire.  Spellman speaks of the Gipsies about this time as follows:—“The
worst kind of wanderers and impostors springing up on the Continent, but yet rapidly spreading
themselves through Britain and other parts of Europe, disfigured by their swarthiness, sun-burnt,
filthy in their clothing and indecent in all their customs.”  Under these circumstances it
is not to be wondered at, in these dark ages, that some steps should be taken to stop these
lawless desperadoes and vagabonds from contaminating our English labourers’ and servant girls
with their loose ideas of labour, cleanliness, honesty, morality, truthfulness, and religion.
It was soon manifest what kind of strange people had begun to flock to our shores to make their
domiciles among us, as will be seen in a description given of them in an Act of Parliament
passed in the twenty-second year of the reign of Henry VIII., being only about seven years
after their landing in Scotland, and to which I have referred before.  It is evident that the
Gipsies had wheedled themselves into the graces and favours of some portion of the aristocracy
by their crafts and deception.  If the Gipsy offences had been committed against the labouring
population it would have been the height of absurdity for Parliament to have inflicted a fine
of some hundreds of pounds upon the working man of the poorer classes.  It has occurred to
me that the question of Popery may have been one of the causes of their persecution; and it
is not unlikely that wealthy Roman Catholics may have had something to do with their importation
into this country.  The fact is, before the Gipsies left the Continent for England they were
Roman Catholic pilgrims, and going about the country doing the work of the Pope to some extent,
and this may have been one of the objects of those who were opposed to the Protestant tendencies
of Henry VIII. in causing them to come over to England.  At this time our own country was in
a very disturbed state, religiously, and no people were so suitable to work in the dark and
carry messages from place to place as the Gipsies, especially if by so doing they could make
plenty of plunder out of it; and this idea I have hinted at before as one of their leading
characteristics.  It should not be overlooked that telegraphs, railways, stagecoaches, and
canals had not been established at this time, consequently for the Gipsies to be moving about
the country from village to village under a cloak, as they appeared to the higher powers, was
sufficient to make them the subjects of bitter persecution.  For the Gipsies to have openly
avowed that they were Roman Catholics before landing upon our shores, would in all probability
have defeated the object of those who induced—if induced—them to come over to Britain.  At
any rate, we may, I think, fairly assume that this feature of their character, an addition
to their fortune-telling proclivities, may have been one of the causes of their persecution,
and in this view I am to some extent supported by circumstances.

During the reign of Henry VIII. a number of Gipsies were sent back to France, and in the book
of receipts and payments of the thirty-fifth of the same reign the following entries are made:—“Nett
payments, 1st Sept., 36 of Henry VIII.  Item, to Tho. Warner, Sergeant of the Admyraltie, 10th
Sept., for victuals prepared for a shippe appointed to convey certaine Egupeians, 58s.  Item,
to the same Tho. Warner, to the use of John Bowles for freight of said shippe, £6 5s.  0d.
Item, to Robt. ap Rice, Esq., Shriff of Huntingdon, for the charge of the Egupeians at a special
gailo delivery, and the bringing of them to be carreied over the sees; over and besides the
sum of £4 5s. 0d. groming of seventeen horses sold at five shillings the peice as apperythe
by a particular book, £17 17s. 7d. Item, to Will. Wever, appointed to have the charge of the
conduct of the said Egupeians to Callis, £5.”

In 1426 a first-rate horse was worth about £1 6s. 8d., and a colt 4s. 6d. Twenty-two years
later the hay of an acre of land was worth about £5.

There were several acts passed relating to the Gipsies during the reign of Philip and Mary,
and fifth of Elizabeth, by which it states—“If any person, being fourteen years old, whether
natural born subject or stranger, who had been seen in the fellowship of such persons, or had
disguised himself like them, or should remain with them one month at once or several times,
it should be felony without the benefit of the clergy.” Wraxall, in his “History of France,”
vol. ii., page 32, in referring to the act of Elizabeth, in 1653, states that in her reign
the Gipsies throughout England were supposed to exceed 10,000.  About the year 1586 complaints
were again made of the increase of vagabonds and loitering persons.

The following order is copied from the Harleian MSS. in the British Museum:—“Orders, rules,
and directions, concluded, appointed, and agreed upon by us the Justices of Peace within the
county of Suffolk, assembled at our general session of peace, holden at Bury, the 22nd daie
of Aprill, in the 31st yeare of the raigne of our Souraigne Lady the Queen’s Majestie, for
the punishing and suppressinge of roags, vacabonds, idle loyterings, and lewde persons, which
doe or shall hereafter wander and goe aboute within the hundreths of Thingo cum Bury, Blackborne,
Thedwardstree, Cosford, Babings, Risbridge, Lackford, and the hundreth of Exninge, in the said
county of Suffolk, contrary to the law in that case made and provided.

“Whereas at the Parliament beganne and holden at Westminster, the 8th daie of Maye, in the
14th yeare of the raigne of the Queen’s Majesty that nowe is, one Acte was made intytuled,
‘An Acte for the punishment of Vacabonds and for releife of the Pooere and Impotent’; and whereas
at a Session of the Parliament, holden by prorogacon at Westminster, the eight daie of February,
in the 28th yeare of Her Majesties raigne, an other Acte was made and intytuled, ‘An Act for
settinge of the Poore to work and for the avoydinge of idleness’; by virtue of which severall
Acts certeyne provisions and remedies have been ordeyned and established, as well for the suppressinge
and punishinge of all roags, vacabonds, sturdy roags, idle and loyteringe persons; as also
for the reliefe and setting on worke of the aged and impotente persons within this realm, and
authoritie gyven to justices of peace, in their several charges and commissions, to see that
the said Acts and Statuts be putte in due execution, to the glorie of Allmightie God and the
benefite of the Common Welth.

“And whereas also yt appeareth by dayly experience that the numbr of idle, vaggraunte, loyteringe
sturdy roags, masterless men, lewde and yll disposed persons are exceedingly encreased and
multiplied, committinge many grevious and outerageous disorders and offences, tendinge to the
great . . . of Allmightie God, the contempt of Her Majesties laws, and to the great charge,
trouble, and disquiet of the Common Welth:

“We, the Justices of Peace above speciefied, assembled and mett together at our general sessions
above-named for remedie of theis and such lyke enormitities which hereafter shall happen to
arrise or growe within the hundreths and lymits aforesaid, doe by theis presents order, decree,
and ordeyne That there shall be builded or provided a convenient house, which shall be called
the House of Correction, and that the same be establishd within the towne of Bury, within the
hundreth of Thingoe aforesaid: And that all persons offendinge or lyvinge contrary to the tenor
of the said twoe Acts, within the hundreths and lymitts aforesaid, shall be, by the warrante
of any Justice of Peace dwellinge in the same hundreths or lymitts, committed thether, and
there be received, punished, sett to worke, and orderd in such sorte and accordinge to the
directions, provisions, and limitations hereafter in theis presents declard and specified.

“Fyrst—That yt maie appeare what persons arre apprehended, committed, and brought to the House
of Correction, it is ordered and appointed, that all and every person and persons which shall
be found and taken within the hundreths and lymitts aforesaid above the age of 14 yeares, and
shall take upon them to be procters or procuraters goinge aboute without sufficiente lycense
from the Queen’s Majestie; all idle persons goinge aboute usinge subtiltie and unlawfull games
or plaie; all such as faynt themselves to have knowledge in physiognomeye, palmestrie, or other
absurd sciences; all tellers of destinies, deaths, or fortunes, and such lyke fantasticall
imaginations.”

In Scotland, the Gipsies, and other vagrants of the same class, were dealt with equally as
severely under Mary Queen of Scots as they were under Henry VIII. and Elizabeth in England.
In an act passed in 1579 I find the following relating to Gipsies and vagabonds:—“That sik
as make themselves fules and ar bairdes, or uther sik like runners about, being apprehended,
sall be put into the Kinge’s Waird, or irones, sa lang as they have ony gudes of their owin
to live on, and fra they have not quhair upon to live of thir owin that their eares be nayled
to the trone or to an uther tree, and thir eares cutted off and banished the countrie; and
gif thereafter they be found againe, that they be hanged.

“And that it may be knowen quwhat maner of persones ar meaned to be idle and strong begares,
and vagabounds, and worthy of the punischment before specified, it is declared: That all idle
persones ganging about in any countrie of this realm, using subtil craftie and unlawful playes,
as juglarie, fast-and-lous, and sik uthers; the idle people calling themselves Egyptians, or
any uther, that feinzies themselves to have a knowledge or charming prophecie, or other abused
sciences, quairby they perswade peopil that they can tell thir weirds, deaths, and fortunes,
and sik uther phantastical imaginations,” &c., &c.

Another law was passed in Scotland in 1609, not less severe than the one passed in 1579, called
Scottish Acts, and in which I find the following:—“Sorcerers, common thieves, commonly called
Egyptians, were directed to pass forth of the kingdom, under pain of death as common, notorious,
and condemned thieves.”  This was persecution with vengeance, and no mistake; and it was under
this kind of treatment, severe as it was, the Gipsies continued to grow and prosper in carrying
out their nefarious practices.  The case of these poor miserable wretches, midnight prowlers,
with eyes and hearts and bending steps determined upon mischief and evil-doing, presents to
us the spectacle of justice untempered with mercy.  The phial filled with revenge, malice,
spite, hatred, extermination and blood—without the milk of human kindness, the honey of love,
water from the crystal fountain, and the tincture of Gethsemane’s garden being added to take
away the nauseousness of it—being handed these poor deluding witches and wretches to drink
to the last dregs, failed to get rid of social and national grievances.  The hanging of thirteen
Gipsies at one of the Suffolk Assizes a few years before the Restoration carried with it none
of the seeds of a reformation in their character and habits, nor did it lessen the number of
these wandering prowlers, for we find that from the landing of a few hundred of Gipsies from
France in 1514, down to the commencement of the eighteenth century, the number had increased
to something like 15,000.  The number who had been hung, died in prison, suffered starvation,
and the fewness of those who were Christians, and gone to heaven, during the period of over
250 years, and prior to the noble efforts of Raper, Sir Joseph Banks, Hoyland, Crabb, Borrow,
and others, is fearful to contemplate.  Hoyland tells us that in his day, “not one Gipsy in
a thousand could read or write.”

Efforts put forth to exterminate these Asiatic heathens, babble-mongers, and bush-ranging thieves,
were not confined to England alone.  King Ferdinand of Spain was the first to set the persecuting
machine at work to grind them to powder, and passed an edict in the year 1492 for their extermination,
which only drove them into hiding-places, to come out, with their mouths watering, in greater
numbers, for fresh acts of violence and plunder.  At the King’s death, the Emperor Charles
V. persecuted them afresh, but with no success, and the consequence was they were left alone
in Spain to pursue their course of robbery and crime for more than 200 years.  In France an
edict was passed by Francis I.  At a Council of the State of Orleans an order was sent to all
Governors to drive the Gipsies out of the country with fire and the sword.  Under this edict
they still increased, and a new order was issued in 1612 for their extermination.  In 1572
they were driven from the territories of Milan and Parma, and earlier than this date they were
driven beyond the Venetian jurisdiction.

    “It is the sound of fetters—sound of work
    Is not so dismal.  Hark! they pass along.
    I know it is those Gipsy prisoners;
    I saw them, heard their chains.  O! terrible
    To be in chains.”

In Denmark they were not allowed to pass about the country unmolested, and every magistrate
was ordered to take them into custody.  A very sharp and severe order came out for their expulsion
from Sweden in the year 1662.  Sixty-one years later a second order was published by the Diet;
and in 1727 additional stringent measures were added to the foregoing edicts.  Under pain of
death they were excluded from the Netherlands by Charles V., and in 1582 by the United Provinces.
Germany seems to have led the van in passing laws for their extermination.  At the Augsburg
Diet in 1500, Maximillian I. had the following edict drawn up:—“Respecting those people who
call themselves Gipsies roving up and down the country.  By public edict to all ranks of the
empire, according to the obligations under which they are bound to us and the Holy Empire,
it is strictly ordered that in future they do not permit the said Gipsies (since there is authentic
evidence of their being spies, scouts, and conveyers of intelligence, betraying the Christians
to the Turks) to pass or remain within their territories, nor to trade or traffic, neither
to grant them protection nor convoy, and that the said Gipsies do withdraw themselves before
Easter next ensuing from the German Dominions, entirely quit them, nor suffer themselves to
be found therein.  As in case they should transgress after this time, and receive injury from
any person, they shall have no redress, nor shall such persons be thought to have committed
any crime.”  Grellmann says the same affair occupied the Diet in 1530, 1544, 1548, and 1551,
and was also enforced in the stringent police regulations of Frankfort in 1577, and he goes
on to say that with the exception of Hungary and Transylvania, they were similarly proscribed
in every civilised state.  I think it will be seen by the foregoing German edict that there
is some foundation for the supposition I have brought forward earlier, viz., that the persecution
of the Gipsies in this country was not so much on account of their thieving deeds, plunder,
and other abominations, as their connection with the emissaries of the Pope of Rome, and in
the secrecy of their movements in going from village to village, undermining the foundation
of the State, law, and order, civil and religious liberty.  The only bright spot and cheerful
tint upon this sorrowful picture of persecution which took place in our own country during
these dark ages was the appearance of the Star of Elstow, John Bunyan, the Bedfordshire tinker,
whose life and death forcibly illustrates the last words of Jesus upon the Cross, “Father,
forgive them, they know not what they do.”

    “’Twere ill to banish hope and let the mind
    Drift like a feather.  I have had my share
    Of what the world calls trial.  Once a fire
    Came in the darkness, when the city lay
    In a still sea of slumber, stretching out
    Great lurid arms which stained the firmament;
    And when I woke the room was full of sparks,
    And red tongues smote the lattice.  Then a hand
    Came through the sulphur, taking hold of mine,
    And the next moment there were shouts of joy.
    Ah! I was but a child and my first care
    Was for my mother.”—HARRIS (the Cornish poet).

Towards the end of the eighteenth century it became evident that edicts and persecutions were
not going to stamp out the Gipsies in this country, for instead of them decreasing in numbers
they kept increasing; at this time there were supposed to be about 18,000 in the country. 
The following sad case, showing the malicious spirits of the Gipsies, and the relentless hand
of the hangman, seemed to have had the effect of bringing the authorities to bay.  They had
begun to put their “considering caps” on, and were in a fix as to the next move, and it was
time they had. They had never thought of tempering justice with mercy.  A century ago, 1780,
a number of young Gipsies were arrested at Northampton, upon what charge it does not appear.
It should be noted that Northamptonshire at this time was a favourite round for the Gipsy fraternity
as well as the adjoining counties.  This, it seems, excited the feelings of the Gipsies in
the county, and they sought to obtain the release of the young Gipsies who were in custody,
but were not successful in their application to the magistrate; the consequence was—true to
their instincts—the spirit of revenge manifested itself to such a degree that the Gipsies threatened
to set fire to the town, and would, in all probability have carried it out had not a number
of them been brought to the gallows for these threats. With this case the hands of persecution
began to hang down, for it was evident that persecution alone would neither improve these Gipsies
nor yet drive them out of the country.  The tide of events now changed.  Law, rigid, stern
justice alone could do no good with them, and consequently handed them over to the minister
of love and mercy.  This step was a bound to the opposite extreme, and as we go along we shall
see that the efforts put forth in this direction alone met with but little more success than
under the former treatment.  Seven years after the foregoing executions Grellmann’s work upon
the Gipsies appeared, which caused a considerable commotion among the religious communities,
following, as it did, the universal feeling aroused in the welfare of the children of this
country by the establishment of Sunday-schools throughout the length and breadth of the land
to teach the children of the working-classes reading and writing and the fundamental principles
of Christianity.  After repeated efforts put forth by a number of Christian gentlemen, and
the interest caused by the publication of Grellmann’s book, the work of reforming the Gipsies
by purely religious and philanthropic action began to lag behind; the result was, as in the
case of persecution, no good was observable, and the Gipsies were allowed to go again on their
way to destruction.  The next step was one in the right direction, viz., that of trying to
improve the Gipsies by the means of the schoolmaster; although humble and feeble in its plan
of operation, yet if we look to the agency put forth and its results, the Sunday-school teacher
must have felt encouraged in his work as he plodded on Sunday after Sunday.

It may be said of Thomas Howard as it was said of the poor widow of old, he “hath done more
than them all.”  The following account of this cheerful, encouraging, and interesting gathering
is taken from Hoyland, in which he says:—“The first account he received of any of them was
from Thomas Howard, proprietor of a glass and china shop, No. 50, Fetter Lane, Fleet Street.
This person, who preached among the Calvinists, said that in the winter of 1811 he had assisted
in the establishment of a Sunday-school in Windwill Street, Acre Lane, near Clapham.  It was
under the patronage of a single gentlewoman, of the name of Wilkinson, and principally intended
for the neglected and forlorn children of brick-makers and the most abject poor.”  At the present
day Gipsies generally locate in the neighbourhood of brick-yards and low, swampy marshes, or
by the side of rivers or canals.  It was begun on a small scale, but increased till the number
of scholars amounted to forty.

“During the winter a family of Gipsies, of the name of Cooper, obtained lodgings at a house
opposite the school.  Trinity Cooper, a daughter of the Gipsy family, who was about thirteen
years of age, applied to be instructed at the school; but in consequence of the obloquy affixed
to that description of persons she was repeatedly refused.  She nevertheless persevered in
her importunity, till she obtained admission for herself and two of her brothers.  Thomas Howard
says, surrounded as he was by ragged children, without shoes and stockings, the first lesson
he taught them was silence and submission.  They acquired habits of subordination and became
tractable and docile; and of all his scholars there were not any more attentive and affectionate
than these; and when the Gipsies broke up in the spring, to make their usual excursions, the
children expressed much regret at leaving school.  This account was confirmed by Thomas Jackson,
of Brixton Row, minister of Stockwell Chapel, who said:—Since the above experiment, several
Gipsies had been admitted to a Sabbath-school under the direction of his congregation.  At
their introduction, he compared them to birds when first put into the cage, which flew against
the sides of it, having no idea of restraint; but by a steady, even care over them, and the
influence of the example of other children, they soon become settled and fell into their ranks.”
The next step taken to let daylight upon the Gipsy and his dark doings in the dark ages was
by means of letters to the Press, and what surprises me is that this step, the most important
of all, was not taken before.

In a letter addressed to the Christian Observer, vol. vii., p. 91, in the year about 1809,
“Nil” writes:—“As the divine spirit of Christianity deems no object, however uncouth or insignificant,
beneath her notice, I venture to apply to you on behalf of a race, the outcasts of society,
of whose pitiable condition, among the many forms of human misery which have engaged your efforts,
I do not recollect to have seen any notice in the pages of your excellent miscellany.  I allude
to the deplorable state of the Gipsies, on whose behalf I beg leave to solicit your good offices
with the public.  Lying at our very doors, they seem to have a peculiar claim on our compassion.
In the midst of a highly refined state of society, they are but little removed from savage
life.  In this happy country, where the light of Christianity shines with its purest lustre,
they are still strangers to its cheering influence.  I have not heard even of any efforts which
have been made either by individuals or societies for their improvement.”  “Fraternicus,” writing
to the same Journal, vol. vii., and in the same year, says:—“It is painful to reflect how many
thousands of these unhappy creatures have, since the light of Christianity has shone on this
island, gone into eternity ignorant of the ways of salvation;” and goes on to say that, “there
is an awful responsibility attached to this neglect,” and recommends the appointment of missionaries
to the work; and finishes his appeal as follows:—“Christians of various denominations, perhaps
may, through the divine providence, be the means of exciting effectual attention to the spiritual
wants of this deplorable set of beings; and the same benevolence which induced you to exert
your talents and influence on behalf of the oppressed negroes may again be successfully employed
in ameliorating the condition of a numerous class of our fellow-creatures.” “H.” wrote to the
Christian Observer, and said he hoped “to see the day when the nation, which has at length
done justice to the poor negroes, will be equally zealous to do their duty in this instance,”
and he offered to subscribe “twenty pounds per annum towards so good an object.” “Minimus,”
another writer to the same paper, with reference to missionary enterprise, says:—“The soil
which it is proposed to cultivate is remarkably barren and unpropitious; of course, a plentiful
harvest must not be soon expected;” and finishes his letter by saying, “Let us arise and build;
let us begin; there is no fear of progress and help.”  “H.,” a clergyman, writes again and
says:—“Surely, when our charity is flowing in so wide a channel, conveying the blessings of
the Gospel to the most distant quarters of the globe, we shall not hesitate to water this one
barren and neglected field in our own land.  My attention was drawn to the state of this miserable
class of human beings by the letter of ‘Fraternicus,’ and looking upon it as a reproach to
our country;” and ends his letter with a short prayer, as follows: “It is my earnest prayer
to God that this may not be one of these projects which are only talked of and never begun;
but that it may tend to the glory of His name and to the bringing back of these poor lost sheep
to the fold of their Redeemer.”  “J. P.” writes to the same Journal, April 28, 1810, in which
he says:—“Circumstances lead to think that were encouragement given to them the Gipsies would
be inclined to live in towns and villages like other people; and would in another generation
become civilised, and with the pains which are now taken to educate the poor, and to diffuse
the Scriptures and the knowledge of Christ, would become a part of the regular fold.  It would
require much patient continuance in well doing in those who attempted it, and they must be
prepared, perhaps, to meet with some untowardness and much disappointment.”  “Fraternicus”
sums up the correspondence by suggesting a plan of taking the school to the Gipsies instead
of taking the Gipsies to the schools:—“If the compulsory education of the Gipsies had taken
place a century ago, and their tents brought under some sort of sanitary inspection, what a
change by this time would have taken place in their habits,” &c.; and he further says:—“By
degrees they might be brought to attend divine worship; and if in the parish of a pious clergyman
he would probably embrace the opportunity of teaching them.  Much might be done by a pious
schoolmaster and schoolmistress, by whom the girls might be taught different kinds of work,
knitting, sewing, &c.  Should these suggestions be deemed worthy of your insertion, they might,
perhaps, awaken the attention of some benevolent persons, whose superior talents and experience
in the ways of beneficence would enable them to perfect and carry into execution a plan for
the effectual benefit of these unhappy portioners of our kind.”

“Junius,” in the Northampton Mercury, under date June 27th, 1814, writes:—“When we consider
the immense sums raised for every probable means of doing good which have hitherto been made
public, we cannot doubt if a proper method should be proposed for the relief and ameliorating
the state of these people it would meet with deserved encouragement.  Suppose that legislature
should think this not unworthy its notice, and as a part of the great family they ought not
to be overlooked.”  Another correspondent to the same Journal, “A Friend of Religion,” writes
under date July 21st, 1815, urging the necessity of some means being adopted for their improvement,
and remarks as follows:—“Thousands of our fellow-creatures would be raised from depravity and
wretchedness to a state of comfort; the private property of individuals be much more secure,
and the public materially benefited.”

Instead of putting into practice measures for their improvement, and the State taking hold
of them by the hand as children belonging to us, and with us, and for whom our first care ought
to have been, we have said in anger—

             “‘Heathen dog!
    Begone, begone! you shall have nothing here.’
    The Indian turned; then facing Collingrew,
    In accents low and musical, he said:
    ‘But I am very hungry; it is long
    Since I have eaten.  Only give me a crust,
    A bone, to cheer me on my weary way.’
    Then answered he, with fury and a frown:
    ‘Go!  Get you gone! you red-skinned heathen hound!
    I’ve nothing for you.  Get you gone, I say!’”

                                               HARRIS, “Wayside Pictures.”

During the summer of 1814, Mr. John Hoyland, of Sheffield, set to work in earnest to try to
improve the condition of the Gipsies, and for that purpose he visited, in conjuction with Mr.
Allen, solicitor at Higham Ferners, many parts of Northamptonshire and neighbouring counties;
and he also sent out a circular to most of the sheriffs in England with a number of questions
upon it relating to their numbers, condition, &c., and the following are a few of the answers
sent in reply:—1. All Gipsies suppose the first of them came from Egypt.  2. They cannot form
any idea of the number in England.  5. The more common names are Smith, Cooper, Draper, Taylor,
Boswell, Lee, Lovell, Leversedge, Allen, Mansfield, Glover, Williams, Carew, Martin, Stanley,
Buckley, Plunkett, and Corrie.  6 and 7. The gangs in different towns have not any connection
or organisation. 8. In the county of Herts it is computed there may be sixty families, having
many children.  Whether they are quite so numerous in Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire, and Northamptonshire
the answers are not sufficiently definite to determine.  In Cambridgeshire, Oxfordshire, Warwickshire,
Wiltshire, and Dorsetshire, greater numbers are calculated upon.  9. More than half their numbers
follow no business; others are dealers in horses and asses, &c., &c.  10. Children are brought
up in the habits of their parents, particular to music and dancing, and are of dissolute conduct.
11. The women mostly carry baskets with trinkets and small wares, and tell fortunes.  13. In
most counties there are particular situations to which they are partial.  15, 16, and 17. Do
not know of any person that can write the language, or of any written specimen of it.  19.
Those who profess any religion represent it to be that of the country in which they reside;
but their description of it seldom goes beyond repeating the Lord’s Prayer, and only a few
of them are capable of that.  20. They marry, for the most part, by pledging to each other,
without any ceremony.  21. They do not teach their children religion.  22 and 23. Not one in
a thousand can read.  Most of these answers were confirmed by Riley Smith, who, during many
years, was accounted the chief of the Gipsies in Northamptonshire.  Mr. John Forster and Mr.
William Carrington, respectable merchants of Biggleswade, and who knew Riley Smith well, corroborated
his statements.  After Hoyland had published his book no one stepped into the breach, with
flag in hand, to take up the cry; and for several years—except the efforts of a clergyman here
and there—the interest in the cause of the Gipsies dwindled down, and became gradually and
miserably less, and the consequence was the Gipsies have not improved an iota during the three
centuries they have been in our midst.  As they were, so they are, and likely to remain unless
brought under State control.

                “On the winds
    A voice came murmuring, ‘We must work and wait’;
    And every echo in the far-off fen
    Took up the utterance: ‘We must work and wait.’
    Her spirit felt it, ‘We must work and wait.’”

                                                                   HARRIS.

No one heeded the warning.  No one listened to the cries of the poor Gipsy children as they
glided into eternity.  No one put out their hands to save them as they kept disappearing from
the gaze of the bystanders, among whom were artificial Christians, statesmen, and philanthropists.
All was as still as death, and the poor black wretches passed away.

Whether His Majesty George III. had ever read Grellmann’s or Hoyland’s works on Gipsies has
not been shown.  The following interesting account will show that royal personages are not
deaf to the cries of suffering humanity, be it in a Gipsy’s wigwam, a cottage, or palace. 
It is taken from a missionary magazine for June, 1823, and in all probability the circumstance
took place not many years prior to this date, and is as follows:—“A king of England of happy
memory, who loved his people and his God better than kings in general are wont to do, occasionally
took the exercise of hunting.  Being out one day for this purpose, the chase lay through the
shrubs of the forest.  The stag had been hard run; and, to escape the dogs, had crossed the
river in a deep part.  As the dogs could not be brought to follow, it became necessary, in
order to come up with it, to make a circuitous route along the banks of the river, through
some thick and troublesome underwood.  The roughness of the ground, the long grass and frequent
thickets, gave opportunity for the sportsmen to separate from each other, each one endeavouring
to make the best and speediest route he could.  Before they had reached the end of the forest
the king’s horse manifested signs of fatigue and uneasiness, so much so that his Majesty resolved
upon yielding the pleasures of the chase to those of compassion for his horse.  With this view
he turned down the first avenue in the forest and determined on riding gently to the oaks,
there to wait for some of his attendants.  His Majesty had only proceeded a few yards when,
instead of the cry of the hounds, he fancied he heard the cry of human distress.  As he rode
forward he heard it more distinctly.  ‘Oh, my mother! my mother!  God pity and bless my poor
mother!’  The curiosity and kindness of the king led him instantly to the spot.  It was a little
green plot on one side of the forest, where was spread on the grass, under a branching oak,
a little pallet, half covered with a kind of tent, and a basket or two, with some packs, lay
on the ground at a few paces distant from the tent.  Near to the root of the tree he observed
a little swarthy girl, about eight years of age, on her knees, praying, while her little black
eyes ran down with tears. Distress of any kind was always relieved by his Majesty, for he had
a heart which melted at ‘human woe’; nor was it unaffected on this occasion.  And now he inquired,
‘What, my child, is the cause of your weeping?  For what do you pray?’  The little creature
at first started, then rose from her knees, and pointing to the tent, said, ‘Oh, sir! my dying
mother!’  ‘What?’ said his Majesty, dismounting, and fastening his horse up to the branches
of the oak, ‘what, my child? tell me all about it.’  The little creature now led the king to
the tent; there lay, partly covered, a middle-aged female Gipsy in the last stages of a decline,
and in the last moments of life.  She turned her dying eyes expressively to the royal visitor,
then looked up to heaven; but not a word did she utter; the organs of speech had ceased their
office! the silver cord was loosed, and the wheel broken at the cistern.  The little girl then
wept aloud, and, stooping down, wiped the dying sweat from her mother’s face.  The king, much
affected, asked the child her name, and of her family; and how long her mother had been ill.
Just at that moment another Gipsy girl, much older, came, out of breath, to the spot.  She
had been at the town of W---, and had brought some medicine for her dying mother.  Observing
a stranger, she modestly curtsied, and, hastening to her mother, knelt down by her side, kissed
her pallid lips, and burst into tears.  ‘What, my dear child,’ said his Majesty, ‘can be done
for you?’  ‘Oh, sir!’ she replied, ‘my dying mother wanted a religious person to teach her
and to pray with her before she died.  I ran all the way before it was light this morning to
W---, and asked for a minister, but no one could I get to come with me to pray with my dear
mother!’  The dying woman seemed sensible of what her daughter was saying, and her countenance
was much agitated.  The air was again rent with the cries of the distressed daughters.  The
king, full of kindness, instantly endeavoured to comfort them.  He said, ‘I am a minister,
and God has sent me to instruct and comfort your mother.’  He then sat down on a pack by the
side of the pallet, and, taking the hand of the dying Gipsy, discoursed on the demerit of sin
and the nature of redemption.  He then pointed her to Christ, the all-sufficient Saviour. 
While the king was doing this the poor creature seemed to gather consolation and hope; her
eyes sparkled with brightness, and her countenance became animated.  She looked up; she smiled;
but it was the last smile; it was the glimmering of expiring nature.  As the expression of
peace, however, remained strong in her countenance, it was not till some little time had elapsed
that they perceived the struggling spirit had left mortality.

“It was at this moment that some of his Majesty’s attendants, who had missed him at the chase,
and who had been riding through the forest in search of him, rode up, and found the king comforting
the afflicted Gipsies.  It was an affecting sight, and worthy of everlasting record in the
annals of kings.

“His Majesty now rose up, put some gold into the hands of the afflicted girls, promised them
his protection, and bade them look to heaven.  He then wiped the tears from his eyes and mounted
his horse.  His attendants, greatly affected, stood in silent admiration.  Lord L--- was now
going to speak, when his Majesty, turning to the Gipsies, and pointing to the breathless corpse,
and to the weeping girls, said, with strong emotion, ‘Who, my lord, who, thinkest thou, was
neighbour unto these?’”

    “Hark!  Don’t you hear the rumbling of its wheels?
    Nearer it comes and nearer!  Oh, what light!
    The tent is full; ’tis glory everywhere!
    Dear Jesus, I am coming!  Then she fell—
    As falls a meteor when the skies are clear.”

After this solemn but interesting event nothing further seems to have been done by either Christian
or philanthropist towards wiping out this national disgrace, and the Gipsies were left to follow
the bent of their evil propensities for several years, till Mr. Crabb’s reading of Hoyland
and witnessing the sentence of death passed upon a Gipsy at Winchester, in 1827, for horse-stealing.

Mr. Crabb happened to enter just as the judge was passing sentence of death on two unhappy
men.  To one he held out the hope of mercy; but to the other, a poor Gipsy, who was convicted
of horse-stealing, he said, no hope could be given.  The young man, for he was but a youth,
immediately fell on his knees, and with uplifted hands and eyes, apparently unconscious of
any persons being present but the judge and himself, addressed him as follows: “Oh, my Lord,
save my life!”  The judge replied, “No; you can have no mercy in this world: I and my brother
judges have come to the determination to execute horse-stealers, especially Gipsies, because
of the increase of the crime.”  The suppliant, still on his knees, entreated—“Do, my Lord Judge,
save my life! do, for God’s sake, for my wife’s sake, for my baby’s sake!”  “No,” replied the
judge, “I cannot; you should have thought of your wife and children before.”  He then ordered
him to be taken away, and the poor fellow was rudely dragged from his earthly judge.  It is
hoped, as a penitent sinner, he obtained the more needful mercy of God, through the abounding
grace of Christ.  After this scene Mr. Crabb could not remain in court.  As he returned he
found the mournful intelligence had been communicated to some Gipsies who had been waiting
without, anxious to learn the fate of their companion.  They seemed distracted.

On the outside of the court, seated on the ground, appeared an old woman and a very young one,
and with them two children, the eldest three years and the other an infant but fourteen days
old.  The former sat by its mother’s side, alike unconscious of her bitter agonies and of her
father’s despair.  The old woman held the infant tenderly in her arms, and endeavoured to comfort
its weeping mother, soon to be a widow under circumstances the most melancholy.  “My dear,
don’t cry,” said she; “remember you have this dear little baby.”  Impelled by the sympathies
of pity and a sense of duty, Mr. Crabb spoke to them on the evil of sin, and expressed his
hope that the melancholy event would prove a warning to them, and to all their people.  The
poor man was executed about a fortnight after his condemnation.

Mr. Crabb being full of fire and zeal, set to work in right good earnest, and succeeded in
forming a committee at Southampton to bring about a reformation among the Gipsies.  He also
enlisted the sympathy of other earnest Christians in the work, and for a time, while the sun
shone, received encouraging signs of success, in fact, according to his little work published
in 1831, his labours were attended with blessed results among the adult portion of the Gipsies.
Owing to the wandering habits of the Gipsies, discouragements, and his own death, the work,
so far as any organisation was concerned, came to an end.  No Elisha came forward to catch
his mantle, the consequence was the Gipsies were left again to work out their own destruction
according to their own inclinations and tastes, as they deemed best, plainly showing that voluntary
efforts are very little better than a shadow, vanishing smoke, and spent steam, to illuminate,
elevate, warm, cheer, and encourage the wandering, dark-eyed vagabonds roving about in our
midst into paths of usefulness, honesty, and sobriety.

Thus far in this part I have feebly endeavoured to show that rigid, stern, inflexible law and
justice on the one hand, and meek, quiet, mild, human love and mercy on the other hand, have
separately failed in the object the promoters had in view.  Justice tried to exterminate the
Gipsy; mercy tried to win them over.  Of the two processes I would much prefer that of mercy.
It is more pleasant to human nature to be under its influence, and more in the character of
an Englishman to deal out mercy.  The next efforts put forth to reform these renegades was
by means of fiction, romance, and poetry.  Some writers, in their praiseworthy endeavours to
make up a medicine to improve the condition of the Gipsies, have neutralised its effects by
adding too much honey and spice to it. Others, who have mistaken the emaciated condition of
the Gipsy, have been dosing him with cordials entirely, to such a degree, that he—Romany chal—imagines
he is right in everything he says and does, and he ought to have perfect liberty to go anywhere
or do anything.  Some have attempted to paint him white, and in doing so have worked up the
blackness from underneath, and presented to us a character which excites a feeling in our notions—a
kind of go-between, akin to sympathy and disgust.  Not a few have thrown round the Gipsy an
enchanting, bewitching halo, which an inspection has proved nothing less than a delusion and
a snare.  Others have tried to improve this field of thistles and sour docks by throwing a
handful of daisy seeds among them.  It requires something more than a phantom life-boat to
rescue the Gipsy and bring him to land.  Scents and perfumes in a death-bed chamber only last
for a short time.  A bottle of rose-water thrown into a room where decomposition is at work
upon a body will not restore life.  Scattering flowers upon a cesspool of iniquity will not
purify it.  A fictitious rope composed of beautiful ideas is not the thing to save drowning
Gipsy children.  To put artificially-coloured feathers upon the head of a Gipsy child dressed
in rags and shreds, with his body literally teeming with vermin and filth, will not make him
presentable at court or a fit subject for a drawing-room.  To dress the Satanic, demon-looking
face of a Gipsy with the violet-powder of imagery only temporally hides from view the repulsive
aspect of his features.  The first storm of persecution brings him out again in his true colour.
The forked light of imagination thrown across the heavens on a dark night is not the best to
reveal the character of a Gipsy and set him upon the highways for usefulness and heaven.  The
dramatist has strutted the Gipsy across the stage in various characters in his endeavour to
improve his condition.  After the fine colours have been doffed, music finished, applause ceased,
curtain dropped, and scene ended, he has been a black, swarthy, idle, thieving, lying, blackguard
of a Gipsy still.  Applause, fine colours, and dazzling lights have not altered his nature.
Bad he is, and bad he will remain, unless we follow out the advice of the good old book, “Train
up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.”

Would to God the voice of the little Gipsy girl would begin to ring in our ears, when she spoke
with finger pointed and tears in her eyes:—

    “There is a cabin half-way down the cliff,
    You see it from this arch-stone; there we live,
    And there you’ll find my mother.  Poverty
    Weeps on the woven rushes, and long grass
    Rent from the hollows is our only bed.
    I have no father here; he ran away;
    Perhaps he’s dead, perhaps he’s living yet,
    And may come back again and kiss his child;
    For every day, and morn, and even star,
    I pray for him with face upturned to heaven,
    ‘O blessed Saviour, send my father home!’”

The word “Gipsy” seems to have a magic thread running through it, beginning at the tip end
of “G” and ending with the tail end of “y.” Geese have tried to gobble it, ducks swallow it,
hens scratched after it, peacocks pecked it, dandy cocks crowed over it, foxes have hid it,
dogs have fought for it, cats have sworn and spit over it, pigs have tried to gulp it as the
daintiest morsel, parrots have chatted about it, hawks, eagles, jackdaws, magpies, ravens,
and crows have tried to carry it away as a precious jewel, and in the end all have put it down
as a thing they could neither carry nor swallow; and after all, when it has been stripped of
its dowdy colours, what has it been?  Only a “scamp,” in many cases, reared and fostered among
thieves, pickpockets, and blackguards, in our back slums and sink gutters.  Strip the 20,000
men, women, and children of the word “Gipsy,” moving about our country under the artificial
and unreal association connected with Gipsy life, so-called, of the “red cloaks,” “silver buttons,”
“pretty little feet,” “small hands,” “bewitching eyes,” “long black hair,” in nine cases out
of ten in name only, and you, at a glance, see the class of people you have been neglecting,
consequently sending to ruin and misery through fear on the one hand and lavishing smiles on
the other.

In all ages there have been people silly enough to be led away by sights, sounds, colours,
and unrealities, to follow a course of life for which they are not suited, either by education,
position, or tastes.  No one acts the part of a butterfly among school-boys better than the
black-eyed Gipsy girl has done among “fast-goers,” swells, and fops.  In ninety-nine cases
out of a hundred she has trotted them out to perfection and then left them in the lurch, and
those, when they have come to their senses, and had their eyes opened to the stern facts of
a Gipsy’s life, have said to themselves, “What fools we have been, to be sure,” and they would
have given any amount to have undone the past.  The praise, flattery, and looks bestowed upon
the “bewitching deceivers,” when they have been labouring under the sense of infatuation and
fascination instead of reason, has made them in the presence of friends hang down their heads
like a willow, and to escape, if possible, the company of their “old chums” by all sorts of
manœuvres.  Hubert Petalengro—a gentleman, and a rich member of a long family—conceived the
idea, after falling madly in love with a dark-eyed beauty, so-called, of turning Gipsy and
tasting for himself—not in fiction and romance—the charms of tent life, as he thought, in reality
passing through the “first,” “second,” and “third degrees.”  At first, it was ideal and fascinating
enough in all conscience; it was a pity Brother Petalengro did not have a foretaste of it by
spending a month in a Gipsy’s tent in the depth of winter, with no balance at his banker’s,
and compelled to wear Gipsy clothing, and make pegs and skewers for his Sunday broth; gather
sticks for the fire, and sleep on damp straw in the midst of slush and snow, and peeping through
the ragged tent roof at the moon as he lay on his back, surrounded by Gipsies of both sexes,
of all ages and sizes, cursing each other under the maddening influence of brandy and disappointment.
To make himself and his damsel comfortable on a Gipsy tour he fills his pocket with gold, flask
with brandy, buys a quantity of rugs upon which are a number of foxes’ heads—and I suppose
tails too—waterproof covering for the tent, and waterproof sheets and a number of blankets
to lay on the damp grass to prevent their tender bodies being overtaken with rheumatics, and
he also lays in a stock of potted meats and other dainties; makes all “square” with Esmeralda
and her two brothers and the donkeys; takes first and second-class tickets for the whole of
them to Hull—the Balaams excepted (it is not on record that they spoke to him on his journey);
provides Esmeralda with dresses and petticoats—not too long to hide her pretty ankles, red
stockings, and her lovely little foot—gold and diamond rings, violin, tambourine, the guitar,
Wellington boots, and starts upon his trip to Norway in the midst of summer beauty.  Many times
he must have said to himself, “Oh! how delightful.”  “As we journeyed onward, how fragrant
the wild flowers—those wild flowers can never be forgotten. Gipsies like flowers, it is part
of their nature.  Esmeralda would pluck them, and forming a charming bouquet, interspersed
with beautiful wild roses, her first thoughts are to pin them in the button-hole of the Romany
Rye (Gipsy gentleman).  As we journeyed quietly through the forest, how delightful its scenes.
Free from all care, we enjoy the anticipation of a long and pleasant ramble in Norway’s happy
land.  We felt contented with all things, and thankful that we should be so permitted to roam
with our tents and wild children of nature in keeping the solitudes we sought.  The rain had
soon ceased, tinkle, tinkle went the hawk-bells on the collar of our Bura Rawnee as she led
the way along the romantic Norwegian road.

       [Picture: A Respectable Gipsy and his Family “on the Road”]

    “‘Give the snakes and toads a twist,
    And banish them for ever,’

sang Zachariah, ever and anon giving similar wild snatches.  Then Esmeralda would rocker about
being the wife of the Romany Rye (Gipsy gentleman) and as she proudly paced along in her heavy
boots, she pictured in imagery the pleasant life she should lead as her Romany Rye’s joovel,
monshi, or somi.  She was full of fun, yet there was nothing in her fanciful delineations which
could offend us.  They were but the foam of a crested wave, soon dissipated in the air.  They
were the evanescent creations of a lively, open-hearted girl—wild notes trilled by the bird
of the forest.  We came again into the open valley.  Down a meadow gushed a small streamlet
which splashed from a wooden spout on to the roadside.” “The spot where we pitched our tents
was near a sort of small natural terrace, at the summit of a steep slope above the road, backed
by a mossy bank, shaded by brushwood and skirting the dense foliage of the dark forest of pine
and fir, above our camp.”  “We gave two of the peasants some brandy and tobacco.”  “Then all
our visitors left, except four interesting young peasant girls, who still lingered.”  “They
had all pleasant voices.”  “We listened to them with much pleasure; there was so much sweetness
and feeling in their melody.  Zachariah made up for his brother’s timidity.  Full of fun, what
dreadful faces the young Gipsy would pull, they were absolutely frightful; then he would twist
and turn his body into all sorts of serpentine contortions.  If spoken to he would suddenly,
with a hop, skip, and a jump alight in his tent as if he had tumbled from the sky, and, sitting
bolt upright, make a hideous face till his mouth nearly stretched from ear to ear, while his
dark eyes sparkled with wild excitement, he would sing—

    “‘Dawdy!  Dawdy! dit a kei
    Rockerony, fake your bosh!’

“At one time a woman brought an exceedingly fat child for us to look at, and she wanted Esmeralda
to suckle it, which was, of course, hastily declined.  We began to ask ourselves if this was
forest seclusion.  Still our visitors were kind, good-humoured people, and some drank our brandy,
and some smoked our English tobacco.  After our tea, at five o’clock, we had a pleasant stroll.
Once more we were with Nature.  There we lingered till the scenes round us, in their vivid
beauty, seemed graven deep in our thought.  How graphic are the lines of Moore:—

    “‘The turf shall be my fragrant shrine,
    My temple, Lord, that arch of Thine,
    My censor’s breath the mountain airs,
    And silent thoughts my only prayers.

    “‘My choir shall be the moonlight waves,
    When murm’ring homeward to their caves,
    Or when the stillness of the sea
    Even more of music breathes of Thee!’

How appropriate were the words of the great poet to our feelings.  We went and sat down.” 
“As we were seated by our camp fire, a tall, old man, looking round our tents, came and stood
contemplating us at our tea. He looked as if he thought we were enjoying a life of happiness.
Nor was he wrong.  He viewed us with a pleased and kindly expression, as he seemed half lost
in contemplation.  We sent for the flask of brandy. Returning to our tents we put on our Napoleon
boots and made some additions to our toilette.”  Of course, kind Mr. Petalengro would assist
lovely Esmeralda with hers.  “Whilst we were engaged some women came to our tents.  The curiosity
of the sex was exemplified, for they were dying to look behind the tent partition which screened
us from observation.  We did not know what they expected to see; one, bolder than the rest,
could not resist the desire to look behind the scenes, and hastily drew back and dropped the
curtain, when we said rather sharply, ‘Nei! nei!’ Esmeralda shortly afterwards appeared in
her blue dress and silver buttons.  Then we all seated ourselves on a mossy bank, on the side
of the terrace, with a charming view across the valley of the Logan.  At eight o’clock the
music commenced.  The sun shone beautifully, and the mosquitoes and midges bit right and left
with hungry determination.  We sat in a line on the soft mossy turf of the grassy slope, sheltered
by foliage.  Esmeralda and Noah with their tambourines, myself with the castanets, and Zachariah
with his violin.  Some peasant women and girls came up after we had played a short time.  It
was a curious scene.  Our tents were pleasantly situated on an open patch of green sward, surrounded
by border thickets, near the sunny bank and the small flat terrace.  The rising hills and rugged
ravines on the other side of the valley all gave a singular and romantic beauty to the lovely
view. Although our Gipsies played with much spirit until nine o’clock, none of the peasants
would dance.  At nine o’clock our music ceased, and we all retired to our tents with the intention
of going to bed.  When we were going into our tents, a peasant and several others with him,
who had just arrived, asked us to play again.  At length, observing several peasant girls were
much disappointed, we decided to play once more.  It was past nine o’clock when we again took
up our position on the mossy bank; so we danced, and the peasant girls, until nearly ten o’clock.
Once we nearly whirled ourself and Esmeralda over the slope into the road below. Esmeralda’s
dark eyes flashed fire and sparkled with merriment and witchery.”

“The bacon and fish at dinner were excellent; we hardly knew which was best.  A peasant boy
brought us a bundle of sticks for our fire.  The sun became exceedingly hot.  Esmeralda and
myself went and sat in some shade near our tents.”  “Noah stood in the shade blacking his boots,
and observed to Esmeralda, ‘I shall not help my wife as Mr. Petalengro does you.’  ‘Well,’
said Esmeralda, ‘what is a wife for?’  ‘For!’ retorted Noah, sharply, giving his boot an extra
brush, ‘why, to wait upon her husband.’  ‘And what,’ said Esmeralda, ‘is a husband for?’  ‘What’s
a husband for!’ exclaimed Noah, with a look of profound pity for his sister’s ignorance, ‘why,
to eat and drink, and look on.’”  Mr. Petalengro goes on to say: “It would seem to us that
the more rude energy a man has in his composition the more a woman will be made to take her
position as helpmate.  It is always a mark of great civilisation and the effeminacy of a people
when women obtain the undue mastery of men.”  And he farther goes on to say: “We were just
having a romp with Esmeralda and her two brothers as we were packing up our things, and a merry
laugh, when some men appeared at the fence near our camping-ground.  We little think,” says
Mr. Petalengro, “how much we can do in this world to lighten a lonely wayfarer’s heart.”

                  [Picture: A Bachelor Gipsy’s Bedroom]

Esmeralda and Mr. Petalengro tell each other their fortunes.  “Esmeralda and myself were sitting
in our tents.  Then the thought occurred to her that we should tell her fortune.  ‘Your fortune
must be a good one,’ said we, laughing; ‘let me see your hand and your lines of life.’  We
shall never forget Esmeralda.  She looked so earnestly as we regarded attentively the line
of her open hand.”  (Mr. Petalengro does not say that tears were to be seen trickling down
those lovely cheeks of Esmeralda while this fortune-telling, nonsensical farce was being played
out.)  “Then we took her step by step through some scenes of her supposed future.  We did not
tell all.  The rest was reserved for another day. There was a serious look on her countenance
as we ended; but, reader, such secrets should not be revealed.  Esmeralda commenced to tell
our fortunes.  We were interested to know what she would say.  We cast ourselves on the waves
of fate.  The Gipsy raised her dark eyes from our hand as she looked earnestly in the face.
You are a young gentleman of good connections.  Many lands you have seen.  But, young man,
something tells me you are of a wavering disposition.’”  And then charming Esmeralda would
strike up “The Little Gipsy”—

    “My father’s the King of the Gipsies, that’s true,
    My mother she learned me some camping to do;
    With a packel on my back, and they all wish me well,
    I started up to London some fortunes for to tell.

    “As I was a walking up fair London streets,
    Two handsome young squires I chanced for to meet,
    They viewed my brown cheeks, and they liked them so well,
    They said ‘My little Gipsy girl, can you my fortune tell?’

    “‘Oh yes! kind Sir, give me hold of your hand,
    For you have got honours, both riches and land;
    Of all the pretty maidens you must lay aside,
    For it is the little Gipsy girl that is to be your bride.’

    “He led me o’er the Mils, through valleys deep I’m sure,
    Where I’d servants for to wait on me, and open me the door;
    A rich bed of down to lay my head upon—
    In less than nine months after I could his fortune tell.

    “Once I was a Gipsy girl, but now a squire’s bride,
    I’ve servants for to wait on me, and in my carriage ride.
    The bells shall ring so merrily, sweet music they shall play,
    And will crown the glad tidings of that lucky, lucky day.”

The drawback to this evening’s whirligig farce was that the mosquitoes determined to come in
for a share.  These little, nipping, biting creatures preferred settling upon young blood,
full of life and activity, existing under artificial circumstances, to the carcase of a dead
horse lying in the knacker’s yard.  To prevent these little stingers drawing the sap of life
from the sweet bodies of these pretty, innocent, lovable creatures, the Gipsies acted a very
cruel part in dressing their faces over with a brown liquid, called the “tincture of cedar.”
It is not stated whether the “tincture of cedar “was made in Shropshire or Lebanon, nor whether
it was extracted from roses, or a decoction of thistles. Alas, alas! how fickle human life
is!  How often we say and do things in jest and fun which turn out to be stern realities in
another form.

“As we looked upon the church and parsonage, surrounded as they were by the modern park, with
the broad silver lake near, the rising mountains on all sides, and the clear blue sky above,
our senses seemed entranced with the passing beauty of the scene.  It was one of those glimpses
of perfect nature which casts the anchor deep in memory, and leaves a lasting impression of
bygone days.”  And then Esmeralda danced as she sang the words of her song; the words not in
English are her own, for I cannot find them even in the slang Romany, and what she meant by
her bosh is only known to herself.

    “Shula gang shaugh gig a magala,
    I’ll set me down on yonder hill;
    And there I’ll cry my fill,
    And every tear shall turn a mill.
    Shula gang shaugh gig a magala
    To my Uskadina slawn slawn.

    “Shula gang shaugh gig a magala,
    I’ll buy me a petticoat and dye it red,
    And round this world I’ll beg my bread;
    The lad I love is far away.

    “Shul shul gang along with me,
    Gang along me, I’ll gang along with you,
    I’ll buy you a petticoat and dye it in the blue,
    Sweet William shall kiss you in the rue.  We contrasted in our semi-consciousness of mind our absence
from a thousand anxious cares which crowd upon the social position of
those who take part in an overwrought state of extreme civilisation.  How
long we should have continued our half-dormant reflections which might
have added a few more notes upon the philosophy of life, we knew not, but
we were roused by the rumble of a stolk-jaerre along the road.”

“For the dance no music can be better than that of a Gipsy band; there is life and animation
in it which carries you away.  If you have danced to it yourself, especially in a czardas,
{176} then to hear the stirring tones without involuntarily springing up is, I assert, an absolute
impossibility.”  Poor, deluded mortals, I am afraid they will find—

    “Nothing but leaves!
    Sad memory weaves
       No veil to hide the past;
    And as we trace our weary way,
    Counting each lost and misspent day,
       Sadly we find at last,
    Nothing but leaves!”

The converse of all this artificial and misleading Gipsy life is to be seen in hard fate and
fact at our own doors—“Look on this picture and then on that.”

    “There is a land, a sunny land,
       Whose skies are ever bright;
    Where evening shadows never fall:
       The Saviour is its light.”

    “There’s a land that is fairer than day,
       And by faith we can see it afar;
    For the Father waits over the way
       To prepare us a dwelling-place there
                In the sweet by-and-bye.”

George Borrow, during his labours among the Gipsies of Spain forty years
ago, did not find much occasion for rollicking fun, merriment, and
boisterous laughter; his path was not one of roses, over mossy banks,
among the honeysuckles and daisies, by the side of running rivulets
warbling over the smooth pebbles; sitting among the primroses, listening
to the enchanting voices of the thousand forest and valley songsters;
gazing at the various and beautiful kinds of foliage on the hill-sides as
the thrilling strains of music pealed forth from the sweet voice of
Esmeralda and her tambourine.  No, no, no!  George Borrow had to face the
hard lot of all those who start on the path of usefulness, honour, and
heaven.  Hard fare, disappointment, opposition, few friends, life in
danger, his path was rough and covered with stones; his flowers were
thistles, his songs attended with tears, and sorrow filled his heart.
But note his object, and mark his end.  There was something very wild in her gestures.  The wind had ceased, but a strong wind
rose and howled at our backs.  We soon entered the town,
which appeared dark and gloomy enough.  He
knocked again, but no answer.  ‘There can be no difficulty,’ said I,
‘with respect to what we have to do.  If your friends are gone out, it is
easy enough to go to a posada.’  ‘You know not what you say,’ replied the
Gipsy.
    Bread of heaven, feed me till I want no more.

       “Open now the crystal fountain
          Whence the healing waters flow;
       Let the fiery, cloudy pillars,
          Lead me all my journey through.
    Hide me, O my Saviour, hide,
       Till the storm of life is past,
    Safe into the haven guide,
       Oh, receive my soul at last.  Two or three lithe, supple
urchins, bounding and dancing along with half-naked bodies, and bright
black eyes shining through knotted elf-locks, form the advanced guard.
Half-a-dozen donkeys seem to carry the whole property of the tribe.  The
main body consists of sinewy, active-looking men, and strikingly handsome
girls, all walking with the free, graceful air and elastic gait peculiar
to those whose lives are passed entirely in active exercise, under no
roof but that of heaven.  Dark-browed women in the very meridian of
beauty bring up the rear, dragging or carrying a race of swarthy progeny,
all alike distinguished for the sparkling eyes and raven hair, which,
with a cunning nothing can overreach, and a nature nothing can tame, seem
to be the peculiar inheritance of the Gipsy.  Their costume is striking,
not to say grotesque.  Some of the girls, and all the matrons, bind their
brows with various coloured handkerchiefs, which form a very picturesque
and not unbecoming head-gear; whilst in a few instances coins even of
gold are strung amongst the jetty locks of the Zingyni beauties.  The men
are not so particular in their attire.  One sinewy fellow wears only a
goatskin shirt and a string of beads round his neck, but the generality
are clad in the coarse cloth of the country, much tattered, and bearing
evident symptoms of weather and wear.  The little mischievous urchins who
are clinging round their mothers’ necks, or dragging back from their
mothers’ hands, and holding on to their mothers’ skirts, are almost
naked.  Small heads and hands and feet, all the marks of what we are
accustomed to term high birth, are hereditary among the Gipsies; and we
doubt if the Queen of the South herself was a more queenly-looking
personage than the dame now marching in the midst of the throng, and
conversing earnestly with her companion, a resolute-looking man scarce
entering upon the prime of life, with a Gipsy complexion, but a bearing
in which it is not difficult to recognise the soldier.  He is talking to
his protectress—for such she is—with a military frankness and vivacity,
which even to that royal personage, accustomed though she be to exact all
the respect due to her rank, appear by no means displeasing.  The lady is
verging on the autumn of her charms (their summer must have been
scorching indeed!), and though a masculine beauty, is a beauty
nevertheless.  Black-browed is she, and deep-coloured, with eyes of fire,
and locks of jet, even now untinged with grey.  Straight and regular are
her features, and the wide mouth, with its strong, even dazzling teeth,
betokens an energy and force of will which would do credit to the other
sex.  She has the face of a woman that would dare much, labour much,
everything but love much.  She ought to be a queen, and she is one,
none the less despotic for ruling over a tribe of Gipsies instead of a
civilised community . . .

“‘Every Gipsy can tell fortunes; mine has been told many a time, but it never came true.’

“She was studying the lines on his palm with earnest attention.  She raised her dark eyes angrily
to his face.

“‘Blind! blind!’ she answered, in a low, eager tone.  ‘The best of you cannot see a yard upon
your way.  Look at that white road, winding and winding many a mile before us upon the plain.
Because it is flat and soft and smooth as far as we can see, will there be no hills on our
journey, no rocks to cut our feet, no thorns to tear our limbs?  Can you see the Danube rolling
on far, far before us?  Can you see the river you will have to cross some day, or can you tell
me where it leads?  I have the map of our journey here in my brain; I have the map of your
career here on your hand.  Once more I say, when the chiefs are in council, and the hosts are
melting like snow before the sun, and the earth quakes, and the heavens are filled with thunder,
and the shower that falls scorches and crushes and blasts—remember me!  I follow the line of
wealth: Man of gold! spoil on; here a horse, there a diamond; hundreds to uphold the right,
thousands to spare the wrong; both hands full, and broad lands near a city of palaces, and
a king’s favour, and a nation of slaves beneath thy foot.  I follow the line of pleasure: costly
amber; rich embroidery; dark eyes melting for the Croat; glances unveiled for the shaven head,
many and loving and beautiful; a garland of roses, all for one—rose by rose plucked and withered
and thrown away; one tender bud remaining; cherish it till it blows, and wear it till it dies.
I follow the line of blood:—it leads towards the rising sun—charging squadrons with lances
in rest, and a wild shout in a strange tongue; and the dead wrapped in grey, with charm and
amulet that were powerless to save; and hosts of many nations gathered by the sea—pestilence,
famine, despair, and victory.  Rising on the whirlwind, chief among chiefs, the honoured of
leaders, the counsellor of princes—remember me!  But ha! the line is crossed.  Beware! trust
not the sons of the adopted land; when the lily is on thy breast, beware of the dusky shadow
on the wall! beware, and remember me!’ . . .

“I proffered my hand readily to the Gipsy, and crossed it with one of the two pieces of silver
which constituted the whole of my worldly wealth. The Gipsy laughed, and began to prophesy
in German.  There are some events a child never forgets; and I remember every word she said
as well as if it had been spoken yesterday.

“‘Over the sea, and again over the sea; thou shalt know grief and hardship and losses, and
the dove shall be driven from its nest.  And the dove’s heart shall become like the eagle’s,
that flies alone, and fleshes her beak in the slain.  Beat on, though the poor wings be bruised
by the tempest, and the breast be sore, and the heart sink; beat on against the wind, and seek
no shelter till thou find thy resting-place at last.  The time will come—only beat on.’

“The woman laughed as she spoke; but there was a kindly tone in her voice and a pitying look
in her bright eyes that went straight to my heart. Many a time since, in life, when the storm
has indeed been boisterous and the wings so weary, have I thought of those words of encouragement,
‘The time will come—beat on.’ . . .

“‘Thou shalt be a “De Rohan,” my darling, and I can promise thee no brighter lot—broad acres,
and blessings from the poor, and horses, and wealth, and honours.  And the sword shall spare
thee, and the battle turn aside to let thee pass.  And thou shalt wed a fair bride with dark
eyes and a queenly brow; but beware of St. Hubert’s Day.  Birth and burial, birth and burial—beware
of St. Hubert’s Day.’”

Disraeli, speaking of the Gipsies in his “Venetia,” says:—“As Cadurcis approached he observed
some low tents, and in a few minutes he was in the centre of an encampment of Gipsies.  He
was for a moment somewhat dismayed, for he had been brought up with the usual terror of these
wild people; nevertheless he was not unequal to the occasion.  He was surrounded in an instant,
but only with women and children, for Gipsy men never immediately appear.  They smiled with
their bright eyes, and the flashes of the watch-fire threw a lurid glare over their dark and
flashing countenances; they held out their practised hands; they uttered unintelligible, but
not unfriendly sounds.”

Matilda Betham Edwards, in her remarks upon Gipsies, says:—“Your pulses are quickened to Gipsy
pitch, you are ready to make love or war, to heal and slay, to wander to the world’s end, to
be outlawed and hunted down, to dare and do anything for the sake of the sweet, untramelled
life of the tent, the bright blue sky, the mountain air, the free savagedom, the joyous dance,
the passionate friendship, the fiery love.”

I come now to notice what a few of the poets have said about these ignorant, nomadic tribes,
who have been skulking and flitting about in our midst, since the days of Borrow, Roberts,
Hoyland, and Crabb—a period of over forty years.

    “He grows, like the young oak, healthy and broad,
    With no home but the forest, no bed but the sward;
    Half-naked he wades in the limpid stream,
    Or dances about in the scorching beam.
    The dazzling glare of the banquet sheen
    Hath never fallen on him I ween,
    But fragments are spread, and the wood pine piled,
    And sweet is the meal of the Gipsy child.”—ELIZA COOK.

    “The Gipsy eye, bright as the star
    That sends its light from heaven afar,
    Wild with the strains of thy guitar,
       This heart with rapture fill.
    Then, maiden fair, beneath this star,
    Come, touch me with the light guitar.
    Thy brow unworked by lines of care,
    Decked with locks of raven hair,
    Seems ever beautiful and fair
       At moonlight’s stilly hour.
    What bliss! beside the leafy maze,
    Illumined by the moon’s pale rays,
    On thy sweet face to sit and gaze,
       Thou wild, uncultured flower.
    Then, maiden fair, beneath this star,
    Come, touch me with the light guitar.”

                                      HUBERT SMITH: “Tent Life in Norway.”

    “From every place condemned to roam,
    In every place we seek a home;
    These branches form our summer roof,
    By thick grown leaves made weather-proof;
    In shelt’ring nooks and hollow ways,
    We cheerily pass our winter days.
    Come circle round the Gipsy’s fire,
    Come circle round the Gipsy’s fire,
    Our songs, our stories never tire,
    Our songs, our stories never tire.”—REEVE.

    “Where is the little Gipsy’s home?
       Under the spreading greenwood tree,
    Wherever she may roam,
       Wherever that tree may be.
    Roaming the world o’er,
       Crossing the deep blue sea,
    She finds on every shore,
       A home among the free,
    A home among the free,
       Ah, voilà la Gitana, voilà la Gitana.”—HALLIDAY.

    “He checked his steed, and sighed to mark
    Her coral lips, her eyes so dark,
    And stately bearing—as she had been
    Bred up in courts, and born a queen.
    Again he came, and again he came,
    Each day with a warmer, a wilder flame,
    And still again—till sleep by night
    For Judith’s sake fled his pillow quite.”—DELTA.

    “A race that lives on prey, as foxes do,
    With stealthy, petty rapine; so despised,
    It is not persecuted, only spurned,
    Crushed under foot, warred on by chance like rats,
    Or swarming flies, or reptiles of the sea,
    Dragged in the net unsought and flung far off,
    To perish as they may.”

                                GEORGE ELIOT: “The Spanish Gipsies,” 1865.

    “Help me wonder, here’s a booke,
    Where I would for ever looke.
    Never did a Gipsy trace
    Smoother lines in hands or face;
    Venus here doth Saturne move
    That you should be the Queene of Love.”

                                                               BEN JONSON.

    “Fond dreamer, pause! why floats the silvery breath
    Of thin, light smoke from yonder bank of heath?
    What forms are those beneath the shaggy trees,
    In tattered tent, scarce sheltered from the breeze;
    The hoary father and the ancient dame,
    The squalid children, cowering o’er the flame?
    Those were not born by English hearths to dwell,
    Or heed the carols of the village bell;
    Those swarthy lineaments, that wild attire,
    Those stranger tones, bespeak an eastern sire;
    Bid us in home’s most favoured precincts trace
    The houseless children of a homeless race;
    And as in warning vision seem to show
    That man’s best joys are drowned by shades of woe.

    “Pilgrims of Earth, who hath not owned the spell
    That ever seems around your tents to dwell;
    Solemn and thrilling as the nameless dread
    That guards the chambers of the silent dead!
    The sportive child, if near your camp he stray,
    Stands tranced with fear, and heeds no more his play;
    To gain your magic aid, the love-sick swain,
    With hasty footsteps threads the dusky lane;
    The passing traveller lingers, half in sport,
    And half in awe beside your savage court,
    While the weird hags explore his palm to spell
    What varied fates these mystic lines foretell.

    “The murmuring streams your minstrel songs supply,
    The moss your couch, the oak your canopy;
    The sun awakes you as with trumpet-call,
    Lightly ye spring from slumber’s gentle thrall;
    Eve draws her curtain o’er the burning west,
    Like forest birds ye sink at once to rest.

    “Free as the winds that through the forest rush,
    Wild as the flowers that by the wayside blush,
    Children of nature wandering to and fro,
    Man knows not whence ye came, nor where ye go;
    Like foreign weeds cast upon Western strands,
    Which stormy waves have borne from unknown lands;
    Like the murmuring shells to fancy’s ears that tell
    The mystic secrets of their ocean cell.

    “Drear was the scene—a dark and troublous time—
    The Heaven all gloom, the wearied Earth all crime;
    Men deemed they saw the unshackled powers of ill
    Rage in that storm, and work their perfect will.
    Then like a traveller, when the wild wind blows,
    And black night flickers with the driving snows,
    A stranger people, ’mid that murky gloom,
    Knocked at the gates of awe-struck Christendom!
    No clang of arms, no din of battle roared
    Round the still march of that mysterious horde;
    Weary and sad arrayed in pilgrim’s guise,
    They stood and prayed, nor raised their suppliant eyes.
    At once to Europe’s hundred shores they came,
    In voice, in feature, and in garb the same.
    Mother and babe and youth, and hoary age,
    The haughty chieftain and the wizard sage;
    At once in every land went up the cry,
    ‘Oh! fear us not—receive us or we die!’”

                           DEAN STANLEY’S PRIZE POEM, 1837: “The Gipsies.”

Part IV. Gipsy Life in a Variety of Aspects.

         [Picture: A Gipsy’s van near Notting Hill, Latimer Road]

In Part III. I have endeavoured, as well as I have been able, to show some of the agencies
that have been set in motion during the last three centuries for and against the Gipsies, with
a view to their extermination, by the hang-man, to their being reclaimed by the religious zeal
and fervour of the minister, and to their improvement by the artificial means of poetry, fiction,
and romance.  First, the persecution dealt out to the Gipsies in this, as well as other countries,
during a period of several centuries, although to a large extent brought upon themselves by
their horrible system of lying and deception, neither exterminated them nor improved their
habits; but, on the contrary, they increased and spread like mushrooms; the oftener they were
trampled upon the more they seemed to thrive; the more they were hated, hunted, and driven
into hiding-places the oftener these sly, fortune-telling, lying foxes would be seen sneaking
across our path, ready to grab our chickens and young turkeys as opportunities presented themselves.
Second, that when stern justice said “it is enough,” persecution hanging down its hands and
revenge drooping her head, a few noble-hearted men, filled with missionary zeal, took up the
cause of the Gipsies for a period of nearly forty years in various forms and ways at the end
of the last and the commencement of the present century.  Except in a few isolated cases, they
also failed in producing any noticeable change in either the moral, social, or religious condition
of the Gipsies, and with the death of Hoyland, Borrow, Crabb, Roberts, and others, died the
last flicker of a flickering light that was to lead these poor, deluded, benighted heathen
wanderers upon a road to usefulness, honesty, uprightness, and industry. Third, that on the
decline of religious zeal, fervour, and philanthropy on behalf of the Gipsies more than forty
years ago the spasmodic efforts of poets, novelists, and dramatists, in a variety of forms
of fiction and romance, came to the front, to lead them to the goal through a lot of questionable
by-lanes, queer places, and artificial lights, the result being that these melodramatic personages
have left the Gipsies in a more pitiable condition than they were before they took up their
cause, although they, in doing so, put “two faces under one hat,” blessing and cursing, smiling
and frowning, all in one breath, praising their faults and sins, and damning their few virtues.
In fact, to such a degree have fiction writers painted the black side of a Gipsy’s life, habits,
and character in glowing colours that, to take another 20,000 men, women, and children out
of our back slums and sink-gutters and write the word “Gipsy” upon their back, instead of “scamp,”
and send them through the country with a few donkeys, some long sticks, old blankets and rags,
dark eyes, dirty faces, filthy bodies, short petticoats, and old scarlet hoods and cloaks,
you would in fifty years make this country not worth living in.  It is my decided conviction
that unless we are careful, and take the “bull by the horns,” and compel them to educate their
children, and to put their habitations, tents, and vans under better sanitary arrangements,
we shall be fostering seeds in these dregs of society that will one day put a stop to the work
of civilisation, and bring to an end the advance in arts, science, laws, and commerce that
have been making such rapid strides in this country of late years.

It is more pleasant to human nature to sit upon a stile on a midsummer eve, down a country
lane, in the twilight, as the shades of evening are gathering around you, the stars twinkling
over head, the little silver stream rippling over the pebbles at your feet in sounds like the
distant warbling of the lark, and the sweet notes of the nightingale ringing in your ears,
than to visit the abodes of misery, filth, and squalor among the Gipsies in their wigwams.
It is more agreeable to the soft parts of our hearts and our finer feelings to listen to the
melody and harmony of lively, lovely damsels as they send forth their enchanting strains than
to hear the cries of the poor little, dirty Gipsy children sending forth their piteous moans
for bread.  It is more delightful to the poetic and sentimental parts of our nature to guide
over the stepping-stones a number of bright, sharp, clean, lively, interesting, little dears,
with their “hoops,” “shuttle-cocks,” and “battle-doors,” than to be seated among a lot of little
ragged, half-starved Gipsy children, who have never known what soap, water, and comb are. 
It is more in harmony with our sensibilities to sit and listen to the drollery, wit, sarcasm,
and fun of Punch than to the horrible tales of blood, revenge, immorality, and murder that
some of the adult Gipsies delight in setting forth.  It is more in accordance with our feelings
to sit and admire the innocent, angelic being, the perfection of the good and beautiful, than
to sit by the hardened, wicked, ugly, old Gipsy woman who has spent a lifetime in sin and debauchery,
cursing the God who made her as she expires. Nevertheless, these things have to be done if
we are to have the angelic beings from the other world ministering to our wants, and wafting
us home as we leave our tenement of clay behind to receive the “Well done.”

I will now, as we pass along, endeavour to show what the actual condition of the Gipsies has
been in the past, and what it is at the present time, which, in some cases, has been touched
upon previously, with reference to the moral, social, and religious traits in their character
that go to the making up of a MAN—the noblest work of God.  The peculiar fascinating charms
about them, conjured up by ethnologists and philologists, I will leave for those learned gentlemen
to deal with as they may think well.  I will, however, say that, as regards their so-called
language, it is neither more nor less than gibberish, not “full of sound and fury signifying
nothing,” but full of “sound and fury” signifying something. They never converse with it openly
among themselves for a good purpose, as the Frenchmen, Germans, Turks, Spaniards, or other
foreigners do. Some of the old Gipsies have a thousand or more leading words made up from various
sources, English, French, German, Spanish, Indian, &c., which they teach their children, and
use in the presence of strangers with a certain amount of pride, and, at the same time, to
throw dust into their eyes while the Gipsies are talking among themselves.  They will in the
same breath bless you in English and curse you in Romany; this I experienced myself lately
while sitting in a tent among a dozen uninteresting-looking Gipsies, while they one and all
were thanking me for taking steps to get the children educated.  There was one among them who
with a smile upon his face, was cursing me in Romany from his heart. Many writers differ in
the spelling and pronunciation of Gipsy words, and what strikes me as remarkable is, the Gipsies
themselves are equally confused upon these points.  No doubt the confusion in the minds of
writers arises principally from the fact that they have had their information from ignorant,
lying, deceiving Gipsies.  Almost all Gipsies have an inveterate hatred and jealousy towards
each other, especially if one sets himself up as knowing more than John Jones in the next yard.
One Gipsy would say paanengro-gújo means sailor, or water gentile, another Gipsy would say
it means an Irishman, or potato gentile; another would say poovengri-gújo meant a sailor; another
would say it means an Irishman.  They glory in contradictions and mystification.  I was at
an encampment a few days ago, and out of the twenty-five men and women and forty children there
were not three that could talk Romany, and there was not one who could spell a single word
of it.  Their language, like themselves, was Indian enough, no doubt, when they started on
their pilgrimage many centuries ago; but, as a consequence of their mixing with the scum of
other nations in their journey westward, the charm in their language and themselves has pretty
nearly by this time vanished.  If I were to attempt to write a book about their language it
would not do the Gipsies one iota of good.  “God bless you” are words the Gipsies very often
use when showing their kindness for favours received, and, as a kind of test, I have tried
to find out lately if there were any Gipsies round London who could tell me what these words
were in Romany, and I have only found one who could perform the task.  They all shake their
heads and say, “Ours is not a language, only slang, which we use when required.”  Taking their
slang generally, according to Grellmann, Hoyland, Borrow, Smart, and Crofton, there is certainly
nothing very elevating about it.  Worldliness, sensuality, and devilism are things helped forward
by their gibberish.  Words dealing with honesty, uprightness, fidelity, industry, religion,
cleanliness, and love are very sparse.

William Stanley, a converted Gipsy, said, some years since, that “God bless you” was in Romany,
Artmee Devillesty; Smart and Crofton say it is, Doòvel, pàrav, pàrik toot, toòti.  In another
place they say it is Doovel jal toosà.  Mrs. Simpson says it is, Mi-Doovel-kom-tooti.  Mrs.
Smith says it is Mi-Doovel Andy-Paratuta.

The following are the whole of the slang words Smart and Crofton have under the letters indicated,
and which words are taken principally from Grellmann, Hoyland, Borrow, and Dr. Paspati:—

I.

I,                          Man, mè, màndi, mànghi.

Ill,                        Nàsfelo, nàffelo doosh.

Illness,                    Nàffelopén.

Ill-tempered,               Kòrni.

Imitation,                  Foshono.

Immediately,                Kenàw sig.

In,                         Adrè, dre, ando, inna.

Indebted,                   Pazerous.

Inflame,                    Katcher.

Injure,                     Dooka.

Inn,                        Kítchema.

Innkeeper,                  Kitchemèngro.

Intestine,                  Vénderi.

Into,                       Andè, adrè, drè.

Ireland,                    Hindo-tem, Hinditemeskro-tem.

Irishman,                   Hindi-temengro, poovengri gaujo.

Irish Gipsy,                Efage.

Iron,                       Sáster, saàsta, saáshta.

Iron,                       Sástera.

Is,                         See.

It,                         Les.

Itch,                       Honj.

J.

Jail,                       Stèripen.

Jews,                       Midùvelesto-maùromèngri.

Jockey,                     Kèstermèngro.

Judgment,                   Bitchama.

Jump,                       Hokter hok òxta.

Jumper,                     Hoxterer.

Just now,                   Kenaw sig.

Justice of the peace,       Chivlo-gaujo, chuvno-gaùjo, pòkenyus,
                            poòkinyus.

K.

Keep,                       Righer, riker.

Kettle,                     Kekàvvi, kavvi.

Key,                        Klèrin klisin.

Kick,                       Del, dé.

Kill,                       Maur.

Kin,                        Simènsa.

Kind,                       Komelo komomuso.

King,                       Kràlis.

Kingdom,                    Kralisom tem.

Kiss,                       Chooma.

Knee,                       Chong, choong.

Knife,                      Choori chivomèngro chinomèngro.

Knock,                      Koor, dè.

Know,                       Jin.

Knowing,                    Yoki, jinomengro, jinomeskro.

Q.

Quarrel,                    Chíngar.

Quarrel,                    Chingariben, gòdli.

Quart,                      Troòshni.

Queen,                      Kralisi krailisi.

Quick,                      Sig.

Quick, Be,                  Sigo toot, rèssi toot kair àbba.

Quietly,                    Shookàr.

The following dozen words will show, in some degree, the fearful amount of ignorance there
is amongst them, even when using the language of their mother country, for England is the mother
country of the present race of Gipsies.  For—

Expensive,           Expencival.

Decide,              Cide.

Advice,              Device.

Dictionary,          Dixen.

Equally,             Ealfully.

Instructed,          Indistructed.

Gentleman,           Gemmen.

Daunted,             Dauntment.

Spitefulness,        Spiteliness.

Habeas Corpus,       Hawcus paccus.

Increase,            Increach.

Submit,              Commist.

I cannot find joy, delight, eternity, innocent, ever, everlasting, endless, hereafter, and
similar words, and, on inquiry, I find that many of the Gipsies do not believe in an eternity,
future punishment, or rewards; this belief, no doubt, has its effects upon their morals in
this life.

The opinion respecting the Gipsy language at the commencement of the present century was, that
it was composed only of cant terms, or of what has been called the slang of beggars; much of
this probably was promoted and strengthened by the dictionary contained in a pamphlet, entitled,
“The Life and Adventures of Bamfylde Moore Carew.”  It consists for the most part of English
words trumped up apparently not so much for the purpose of concealment as a burlesque.  Even
if used by this people at all, the introduction of this cant and slang as the genuine language
of the community of Gipsies is a gross imposition on the public.  Their women also traversed
the city six or eight together, entering the houses of the citizens, and diverting them with
idle talk while one of the party secured whatever she could lay her hands upon.  In the shops
they pretended to buy, but in fact stole.  They were amongst the cleverest thieves that the
world contained.  Be it noted that they were the most hideous crew ever seen in these parts.
They were lean and black, and ate like pigs.  The women wore mantles flung upon one shoulder,
with only a vest underneath.”  Forli, who wrote about them about the same time as the “Chronicle
of Bologna,” does not seem to have liked them, and says they were not “even civilised, and
resembling rather savage and untamed beasts.”

A writer describes a visit to a Gipsy’s tent as follows:—“We were in a wigwam which afforded
us but miserable shelter from the inclemency of the season.  The storm raged without; the tempest
roared in the open country; the wind blew with violence, and whistled through the fissures
of the cabin; the rain fell in torrents, and prevented us from continuing our route.  Our host
was an Indian with sparkling and intelligent eyes, clad with a certain elegance, and wrapped
majestically in a large fur cloak. Seated close to the fire, which cast a reddish gleam through
the interior of the wigwam, he felt himself all at once seized with an irresistible desire
to imitate the convulsion of nature, and to sing his impressions. So taking hold of a drum
which hung near his bed, he beat a slight rolling, resembling the distant sounds of an approaching
storm, then raising his voice to a shrill treble, which he knew how to soften when he pleased,
he imitated the whistling of the air, the creaking of the branches dashing against one another,
and the particular noise produced by dead leaves when accumulated in compact masses on the
ground.  By degrees the rollings of the drum became more frequent and louder, the chants more
sonorous and shrill; and at last our Indian shrieked, howled, and roared in the most frightful
manner; he struggled and struck his instrument with extraordinary rapidity; it was a real tempest,
to which nothing was wanting, not even the distant howling of the dogs, nor the bellowing of
the affrighted buffaloes.”

Mr. Leland, speaking of the Russian Gipsies near Moscow, says that after meeting them in public,
and penetrating to their homes, they were altogether original, deeply interesting, and able
to read and write, and have a wonderful capacity for music, and goes on to say that he speedily
found the Russian Gipsies were as unaffected and childlike as they were gentle in manner, and
that compared with our own prize-fighting, sturdy, begging, and always suspecting Gipsy roughs,
as a delicate greyhound might compare with a very shrewd old bulldog trained by a fly tramp.
Leland, in his article, speaking of one of the Russian Gipsy maidens, says:—“Miss Sarsha, who
had a slight cast in one of her wild black eyes, which added something to the Gipsiness and
roguery of her smiles, and who wore in a ring a large diamond, which seemed as if it might
be the right eye in the wrong place, was what is called an earnest young lady, and with plenty
to say and great energy wherewith to say it.  What with her eyes, her diamond, her smiles,
and her tongue, she constituted altogether a fine specimen of irrepressible fireworks.”

Leland, referring to the musical abilities of the Russian Gipsies, in his article in “Macmillan’s
Magazine,” November, 1879, says:—“These artists, with wonderful tact and untaught skill have
succeeded in all their songs in combining the mysterious and maddening chorus of the true wild
eastern music with that of regular and simple melody intelligible to every western ear.”  “I
listened,” says Leland, “to the strangest, wildest, and sweetest singing I ever had heard—the
singing of Lurleis, of syrens, of witches.  First, one damsel, with an exquisitely clear, firm
voice began to sing a verse of a love ballad, and as it approached the end the chorus stole
in, softly and unperceived, but with exquisite skill, until, in a few seconds, the summer breeze,
murmuring melody over a rippling lake, seemed changed to a midnight tempest roaring over a
stormy sea, in which the basso of the black captain pealed like thunder, and as it died away
a second girl took up the melody, very sweetly, but with a little more excitement—it was like
a gleam of moonlight on the still agitated waters—a strange contralto witch gleam, and then
again the chorus and the storm, and then another solo yet sweeter, sadder, and stranger—the
movement continually increasing, until all was fast, and wild, and mad—a locomotive quick step
and then a sudden silence—sunlight—the storm had blown away;” and adds, “I could only think
of those strange fits of excitement which thrill the Red Indian, and make him burst into song.”

“After the first Gipsy lyric then came another to which the captain especially directed my
attention as being what Sam. Petalengro calls ‘The girl in the red chemise’—as well as I can
recall his words.  A very sweet song, with a simple but spirited chorus, and as the sympathetic
electricity of excitement seized the performers we were all in a minute going down the rapids
in a spring freshet.  ‘Sing, sir, sing!’ cried my handsome neighbour, with her black Gipsy
eyes sparkling fire.”

Some excuse ought to be made for Leland getting into this wild state of excitement, for he
had on his right and on his left, before and behind him, dark-eyed Gipsy beauties—as some would
call them—among whom was one, the belle of the party, dressed in black silk attire, wafting
in his face the enchanting fan of fascination till he was completely mesmerised.  How different
this hour’s excitement to the twenty-three hours’ reality!

The following is the full history of a remarkable case which has recently occurred in Russia,
taken from the London daily papers last November, and it shows the way in which Gipsy witches
and fortune-tellers are held and horribly treated in that country.  It is quite evident that
Gipsies and witches are not esteemed by the Russians like angels:—

    Agrafena Ignatjewa was as a child simple and amiable, neither sharper
    nor more stupid than all the other girls of her native village,
    Wratschewo, in the Government of Novgorod.  But the people of the
    place having, from her early youth, made up their minds that she had
    the “evil eye,” nothing could eradicate that impression.

    Being branded with this reputation, it naturally followed that powers
    of divination and enchantment were attributed to her, including the
    ability to afflict both men and animals with various plagues and
    sicknesses.

    In spite, however, of the supernatural skill with which she was
    credited, she met with no suitor save a poor soldier.  She accepted
    him gladly, and going with him, shortly after her marriage, to St.
    Petersburg, Wratschewo lost sight of her for some twelve years.  She
    was, however, by no means forgotten there, for when, after the death
    of her husband, she again betook herself to the home of her
    childhood, she found that her old reputation still clung to her.  The
    news of her return spread like wild-fire, and general disaster was
    anticipated from her injurious spells.  This, however, was, from
    fear, talked of only behind her back, and dread of her at length
    reached such a pitch that the villagers and their wives sent her
    presents and assisted her in every way, hoping thereby to get into
    her good graces, and so escape being practised upon by her infernal
    arts.  As she was now fifty years of age, somewhat weakly, and
    therefore unable to earn a living, these attentions were by no means
    unwelcome, and she therefore did nothing to disabuse her neighbours’
    minds.  Their superstition enabled her to live comfortably and
    without care, and she knew very well that any assurances she might
    give would not have produced the slightest effect.

    A short time after her return to Wratschewo, several women fell ill.
    This was, of course, laid at the door of Ignatjewa, particularly as
    one of these women, the daughter of a peasant, had been attacked
    immediately after being refused a slight favour by her.  Whenever any
    misfortune whatsoever happened in the village, all fingers pointed to
    Ignatjewa as the source of it.  At the beginning of the present year
    a dismissed soldier, in the interest of the community, actually
    instituted criminal proceedings against her before the local
    urjadnik, the chief of the police of the district, the immediate
    charge preferred being that she had bewitched his wife.

    Meanwhile the feeling in the village against her became so
    intensified that it was resolved by the people, pending the decision
    on the complaint that had been lodged, to take the law into their
    hands so far as to fasten her up in her cottage.

    The execution of this resolve was not delayed a moment.  Led by
    Kauschin, Nikisorow, Starovij, and an old man of seventy, one
    Schipensk, whose wife and daughters were at the time supposed to be
    suffering from her witchcraft, a crowd of villagers set out on the
    way to Ignatjewa’s dwelling.  Nikisorow had provided himself with
    hammer and nails, and Iwanow with some chips of pinewood “to smoke
    out the bad spirits.”  Finding the cottage door locked, they beat it
    in, and while a portion of them nailed up the windows the remainder
    crowded in and announced to the terrified woman that, by unanimous
    decision, she was, for the present, to be kept fastened up in her
    house.  Some of them then proceeded to look through the rooms, where
    they found, unfortunately, several bottles containing medicaments.
    Believing these to be enchanted potions, and therefore conclusive
    proofs of Ignatjewa’s guilt, it was decided, on the suggestion of
    Nikisorow, to burn her and her devilish work there and then.  “We
    must put an end to it,” shouted the peasants in chorus; “if we let
    her off now we shall be bewitched one and all.”

    Kauschin, who held in his hand a lighted chip of pine-wood, which he
    had used “to smoke out the spirits” and to light him about the
    premises, instantly applied it to a bundle of straw lying in a room,
    after which all hastily left.  Ignatjewa attempted in vain to follow
    them.  The agonised woman then tried to get out at the windows, but
    these were already nailed up.  In front of the cottage stood the
    people, blankly staring at the spreading flames, and listening to the
    cries of their victim without moving a muscle.

    At this point Ignatjewa’s brother came on the scene, and ran towards
    the cottage to rescue his sister.  But a dozen arms held him back.
    “Don’t let her out,” shouted the venerable Schipensk, the husband and
    father of the bewitched women.  “I’ll answer for it, that we won’t,
    father; we have put up with her long enough,” replied one of the
    band.  “The Lord be praised!” exclaimed another, “let her burn away;
    she bewitched my daughters too.”

    The little room in which Ignatjewa had taken refuge was not as yet
    reached by the fire.  Appeals were now made to her to confess herself
    a witch, the brother joining, probably in the hope that if she did so
    her life might be spared.  “But I am entirely innocent,” the poor
    woman cried out.  One of the bystanders, apparently the only one in
    possession of his five senses, made another attempt at rescue, but
    was hindered by the mob.  He then, in loud tones, warned them of the
    punishment which would certainly await them, but in vain, no
    attention was paid to him.  On the contrary, the progress of the
    flames not appearing rapid enough, it was endeavoured to accelerate
    it by shoving the snow from the roof and loosening the frame-work.
    The fire now extended rapidly, one beam after another blazed up, and
    at length the roof fell in on the wretched woman.

    The ashes smouldered the whole night; on the following morning
    nothing was found remaining but the charred bones of Ignatjewa.

    The idea now, it would seem, occurred to the murderers that perhaps,
    after all, their action had not been altogether lawful.  They
    accordingly resolved to bribe the local authority, who had already
    viewed the scene of the affair, to hush it up.  For this purpose they
    made a collection, and handed him the proceeds, twenty-one roubles
    ninety copecks.  To their astonishment he did not accept the money,
    but at once reported the horrible deed to his superior officer.
    Sixteen of the villagers were, in consequence, brought up for trial
    at Tichwin before the district court of Novgorod on the charge of
    murdering Agrafena Ignatjewa, in the manner above described.

    After a protracted hearing with jury the following result was arrived
    at:—Kauschin, who had first set fire to the building; Starovij, who
    had assisted in accelerating the burning; and Nikisorow, the prime
    mover in the matter, who had nailed up the windows, were found
    guilty, and sentenced by the judge to some slight ecclesiastical
    penance, while the remaining thirteen, including the aged
    Schipensk—who had used his influence to prevent a rescue—went scot
    free.

The Spanish Gipsies, in Grellmann’s day, would resort to the most wicked and inhuman practices.
Before taking one of their horses to the fair they would make an incision in some secret part
of the skin, through which they would blow the creature up till his flesh looked fat and plump,
and then they would apply a strong sticking plaster to prevent the air escaping.  Wolfgang
Franz says they make use of another device with an eel.  Grellmann says of the Spanish Gipsies
in his day that dancing was another means of getting something; they generally practised dancing
when they were begging, particularly if men were about the streets. Their dances were of the
most disgusting kind that could be conceived; the most lascivious attitudes and gestures, young
girls and married women, travelling with their fathers, would indulge in, to the extent of
frisking about the streets in a state of nudity.

Further inquiries among the Gipsies more than ever satisfy me that my first statement last
August, viz., that five per cent. of them could not read and write, is being more than fully
borne out by facts brought under my notice; in fact, I question if there will be three per
cent. of the Gipsies who can read and write.  The following letter has been sent to me by a
friend to show that there is one Gipsy in the country, at least, who knows how to put a letter
together, and as it is somewhat of a curiosity I give it, as exactly as possible as I received
it, of course leaving out the name, and without note or comment.

                                                            “Newtown Moor,
                                                          “the 22nd, 1877.

    “Dear Sir,—

    “I recivd your last Letter, and proude to say that I shall (if alls
    well) endeavor to cum on the day mentioned.  I shall start from hear
    5.36 a.m., and be in Edinburgh betwen 3 and 4.  I have no more to say
    very particular, only feel proude of having the enviteation (we are
    all well hear) with the exception of my little Daughter.  She still
    keeps about the same.  I shall finish (this little bit) by sending
    all our very kind love and respects to Mrs. --- and yourself.
    Hopeing this will find you boath in good helth (I shall go on with a
    little bit of something else)  (by the way, a little filling up which
    I hope you will parden me for taking up so much of your time.

                                                               “I am yours
                                                        “Very obediently,t
                                                            “WELSH HARPER.

    (Now a little more about what my poor old mother leant me when a
    child) and before I go on any further I want you (if you will be so
    kind) as to perticullery—understand me—that the ch has a curious
    sound—also the LR, as, for instence, chommay, in staid hommay, choy
    in place of hoi.  Chotche yoi instaid of hotche yoi.  Matteva ma
    tot in staid of lat eva ma tot and so on.  I shall now commence
    with the feminine and the musculin gender (but I must mind as I don’t
    put my foot in it) as you know a hundred times more than I do about
    these last words—the same time the maight be a little picket up by
    them.  Well, hear goes to make a start.  (You must not always
    laugh.)

“Singular                  Feminine          M.           F. “Masculine gender.         gender.

Dad                        Dai               Dada         Daia

Chavo                      Chai              Chavay       Chaia

Tieno                      Tienoy            Tickna

Morsh                      Jovel             Morsha       Jovya

Gongeo                     Gangee            Gongea       Gongeya

Racloo                     Raclee

Raclay  or                 Racklay

Pal                        Pen               Palla        Peoya

Pella                      Penya             Cock         Bebey

    (I shall finish this) as you know yourself it will take me to long to
    go on with more of it.  I shall now sho how my poor mother use to
    speak her English.

    “THE WHOL FAMALY CAMPING WITH HORSES, DONKEYS, AND DOGS.

    “On the first weakning in the morning (mother speaking to my Father
    in the Tent)—“Now, man, weak dear Boys up to go and geather some
    sticks to light the fire, and to see whare dem Hoses and Donkeys are.
    I think I shoud some marshas helen a pray the Drom and coving the
    collas out of the pub.  Mother again—Now, boy, go and get some water
    to put in the ole kettle for breakfast.  The Boy—I davda—I must go
    and do every bit a thing.  Why don’t you send dat gel to cer some
    thing some times her crie chee tal only wishing talkay all the
    blessed time.  Mother, I am going to send her to the farm House for
    milk (jack loses mony) when a Bran of fire is flying after him, and
    he (the boy) over a big piece of wood, and hurts his knea.

    “The girl goes for the milk (and she has a river to go threw) when
    presently a Bull is heard roreng.  Mother, dare now, boy, go and meet
    your sister; does de Bull roreing after her.  She will fall down in a
    faint in de middle of de riber.  Boy sar can I gal ear yoi ta ma
    docadom me heroi ta shom quit leam (the old woman), go, man, go, man,
    and stick has dat charey chai is a beling da da say dat dat is a very
    bad after jovyas.  Strenge men brings the Horses and donkeys up to
    the tents, and begins to scould very much.  (The little girl comes
    with the milk.)  The girl said to her brother that she may fall over
    the wooden in the river for what he cared; yet the boy said that when
    she would fall down she would chin a bit, and all the fish would come
    and nibble at her.  Horras and her bull; and then they began the
    scrubble, and begins to scould her brother for not going to meet her,
    when they boath have a scuffel over the fire, and very near knocks
    the jockett over, when the boy hops away upon one leg, and hops upon
    one of the dog’s paws—un-seen—and dog runs away barking, and runs
    himself near one of the Donkeys, and the Donkey gives him a kick,
    until he is briging in the horse.  The old woman: Dare now, dare now,
    ockkie now chorro jocked mardo.  Breakfast is over with a deal of
    boather, and a little laughing and cursing and swaring.

    “They strike the tents.  (The old woman)  Men chovolay nen sig waste
    ja mangay.  I am a faling a vaver drom codires, and you will meet me
    near old Town.  Be shewer and leave a pattern by the side of the
    cross road, if you sal be dare before me.

    “(The old man and the Boys Pitches the Tents) and gets himself ready
    to go to the Town.  The old woman comes up, and one of the girls with
    her—boath very tired and havey, loaded with choben behind her back,
    anugh to frighten waggens and carts of the road with her humpey back.

    “(They intend to stay in this delightfull camping place for a good
    many days.)  To day is soposid to be a very hot day, and a fare day
    in a Town about three miles and ½ from there.  The old woman and one
    of her Daughters goes out as usual.  The old man takes a couple of
    Horses to the Fare to try and sell.  (The boys go a fishing.)  The
    day is very bright and hot.  (The old man soon comes home.)

    “One of the prityist girls takes a strol by herself down to a
    butyfull streem of water to have herself a wash, and she begins
    singing to the sound of a waterfall close by her, when all of a suden
    a very nice looking young gentleman, who got tiard fishing in the
    morning, and the day being very hot, took a bit of a lull on his
    face, his basket on his back, and Fishing-rod by his side (the girl
    did not see him) nor him her) until he was atracted by some strange
    sound, when all of a instant he sprung upon his heels, and to his
    surprise seen a most butyfull creature with her bear bosom and her
    long black hair and butyfull black eyes, white teeth, and a butyfull
    figure.  He stared with all the eyes he had, and he made a advance
    towards her, and when she seen him she stared also at him, and
    aproaching slowly towards her and saying, from whence comest thou
    hear, my butyfull maid (and staring at her butyfull figure) thinking
    that she was some angel as droped down (when she with a pleasant
    smile by showing her ivory and her sparkling eyes)  Oh, my father’s
    tents are not fare off, and seen the day very warm I thought to have
    a little wash.

    “Gentleman Well indeed I have been fishing to day, and cot a few this
    morning; but the day turned out so excesably hot I was obliged to go
    in to a shade and have a sleep, but was alarmed at your sweet voice
    mingling with the murmuring waters.  They boath steer up to the camp,
    when now and then as he is speaking to her on the road going up, a
    loude and shrill laugh is heard many times—the same time he does not
    sho the least sign of vulgaraty by taking any sort of liberty with
    her whatever.  They arrive at the tents, when one or the little boys
    says to his dady Dady, dady, there is a rye a velin a pra.  The
    gentleman sitts himself down and pulls out a big Flask very near full
    of Brandy and toboco, and offers to the old man.

    “By this time that young girl goes in her Tent and pull down the
    front, and presently out she comes butyfully dressed, which bewitched
    the young gentleman, and he said that they were welcome to come there
    to stop as long as they had a mind so as they would not tear the
    Headges.  He goes and leaves them highly delighted towards hime, and
    he should pay them another visit.  This camping ground belonged to
    the young gentleman’s father, and is situated in a butyfull part of
    Derbyshire.  One of the little girls sees two young ladys coming a
    little sideways across the common from a gentleman’s house which is
    very near, which turns out to be the gentleman’s two sisters.  The
    little girl, Mamey, mamey, der is doi Rawngas avelin accai atch a
    pray.  The young ladys comes to the tents and smiles, when the old
    woman says to one of them, Good day, meyam, it’s a very fine day,
    meyam; shall I tell you a few words, meyam?  The old woman takes them
    on one side and tells them something just to please them, now and
    then a word of truth, the rest a good lot of lies.

    “The old man goes off for a stroll with a couple of dogs.

    “One of the young boys asks his mother for some money, and she
    refuses him, or says she has got none.  The boy says, Where is the
    £000 tooteys sold froom those doi Rawngas maw did accai I held now
    from them they pend them not appopolar?  One of the other brothers
    says to him, Hear, Abraham, ile lend you 5s.  Will you, my blessed
    brother.  Yes, I will; hear it is.  Now we will boath of us go to the
    gav togeather.  One gets his fiddle ready and the other the Tamareen.
    The harp is too heavy to carry.  They go to call at the post office
    for a chinginargery—they boath come home rather wary.

    “The next day the Boys go a fishing again and bring home a good lot
    (as the day was not near so hot as the day before) and comes home in
    good time to play the harp and violin (and sometimes the Tambureen)
    for the county gouges [green horns], as a good many comes to have a
    dance on the green—the collection would be the boys pocket money.

    “There is a great deal of amusement found by those that us to follow
    Barns.  The have many country people coming them to hear there music
    and to dance on the green, or sometimes in the barn, but most oftener
    in the house in a big kitchen, and the country people would be
    staring at the collays, Gipsies, with all there eyes, and the Gipsies
    would stare at the people to see them such Dinalays [fools].

    “Those who followed Barns, us to call gentlemen’s houses with the
    Harps, and us to be called in and make a good thing of it.

    “Dear Mr.—With your permission I will leave of now, and let you know
    a little more when I come.  Hoping that I have not trespased on your
    time to read such follishness.  All that I have written has happened.

                                                   “I again beg to remain,
                                                 “Yours very respectfully,
                                           “WELSHANENGAY BORY BOSHAHENGBO.

                                                          [Hedge Fiddler.]

    “I beg to acquaint you that I am the oldest living Welsh Harper in
    the world at the present time.  Mr. Thomas G---, Welsh Harper to the
    Prince of Wales, is next to me.”

It would be perhaps a difficult task to find a score of Gipsies out of the 15,000 to 20,000
there are in this country who can write as well as the foregoing letter.

The following may be considered a fair specimen of the high class or “Gentleman Gipsy,” so
much admired by those who have got the Gipsy spell round their necks, the Gipsy spectacles
before their eyes, the Gipsy charm in their pocket, and who can see nothing but what is lively,
charming, fascinating, and delightful in the Gipsy, from the crown of his head to the sole
of his foot.  To those of my friends I present them with an account of Ryley Bosvil as a man
after their own heart, at the same time I would call their attention to his ending, as related
by Borrow.

Ryley Bosvil was a native of Yorkshire, a county where, as the Gipsies say, “There’s a deadly
sight of Bosvils.”  He was above the middle height, exceedingly strong and active, and one
of the best riders in Yorkshire, which is saying a great deal.  He frequently used to say that
if any of his people became Gorgios he would kill them.  He had a sister of the name of Clara,
a nice, delicate girl, about fourteen years younger than himself, who travelled about with
an aunt; this girl was noticed by a respectable Christian family, who, taking great interest
in her, persuaded her to come and live with them.  She was instructed by them, in the rudiments
of the Christian religion, appeared delighted with her new friends, and promised never to leave
them.  After the lapse of about six weeks there was a knock at the door, and a dark man stood
before it, who said he wanted Clara.  Clara went out trembling, had some discourse with the
man in an unknown tongue, and shortly returned in tears, and said that she must go.  “What
for?” said her friends.  “Did you not promise to stay with us?”  “I did so,” said the girl,
weeping more bitterly; “but that man is my brother, who says I must go with him; and what he
says must be.”  So with her brother she departed, and her Christian friends never saw her again.
What became of her?  Was she made away with?  Many thought she was, but she was not.  Ryley
put her into a light cart, drawn by a “flying pony,” and hurried her across England, even to
distant Norfolk, where he left her with three Gipsy women.  With these women the writer found
her encamped in a dark wood, and had much discourse with her both on Christian and Egyptian
matters.  She was very melancholy, bitterly regretted her having been compelled to quit her
Christian friends, and said that she wished she had never been a Gipsy.  She was exhorted to
keep a firm grip of her Christianity, and was not seen again for a quarter of a century, when
she was met on Epsom Downs on the Derby day, when the terrible horse, “Gladiateur,” beat all
the English steeds. She was then very much changed indeed, appearing as a full-blown Egyptian
matron, with two very handsome daughters flaringly dressed in genuine Gipsy fashion, to whom
she was giving motherly counsels as to the best means to hok and dukker the gentlefolk.  All
her Christianity she appeared to have flung to the dogs, for when the writer spoke to her on
that very important subject she made no answer save by an indescribable Gipsy look.  On other
matters she was communicative enough, telling the writer, amongst other things, that since
he saw her she had been twice married, and both times very well, for that her first husband,
by whom she had the two daughters, whom the writer “kept staring at,” was a man every inch
of him, and her second, who was then on the Downs grinding knives with a machine he had, though
he had not much manhood, being nearly eighty years old, had something much better, namely,
a mint of money, which she hoped shortly to have in her possession.

Ryley, like most of the Bosvils, was a tinker by profession; but though a tinker, he was amazingly
proud and haughty of heart.  His grand ambition was to be a great man among his people, a Gipsy
king (no such individuals as either Gipsy kings or queens ever existed).  To this end he furnished
himself with clothes made after the costliest Gipsy fashion; the two hinder buttons of the
coat, which was of thick blue cloth, were broad gold pieces of Spain, generally called ounces;
the fore-buttons were English “spaded guineas,” the buttons of the waistcoat were half-guineas,
and those of the collar and the wrists of his shirt were seven-shilling gold-pieces.  In this
coat he would frequently make his appearance on a magnificent horse, whose hoofs, like those
of the steed of a Turkish Sultan, were cased in shoes of silver.  How did he support such expense?
it may be asked.  Partly by driving a trade in “wafedo loovo,” counterfeit coin, with which
he was supplied by certain honest tradespeople of Brummagem; partly and principally by large
sums of money which he received from his two wives, and which they obtained by the practice
of certain arts peculiar to Gipsy females.  One of his wives was a truly remarkable woman.
She was of the Petalengro or Smith tribe.  Her Christian name, if Christian name it can be
called, was Xuri or Shuri, and from her exceeding smartness and cleverness she was generally
called by the Gipsies Yocky Shuri—that is, smart or clever Shuri, Yocky being a Gipsy word
signifying “clever.”  She could dukker—that is, tell fortunes—to perfection, by which alone,
during the racing season, she could make a hundred pounds a month.  She was good at the big
hok—that is, at inducing people to put money into her hands in the hope of it being multiplied;
and, oh, dear! how she could caur—that is, filch gold rings and trinkets from jewellers’ cases,
the kind of thing which the Spanish Gipsies call ustibar pastesas—filching with hands.  Frequently
she would disappear and travel about England, and Scotland too, dukkering, hokking, and cauring,
and after the lapse of a month return and deliver to her husband, like a true and faithful
wife, the proceeds of her industry.  So no wonder that the Flying Tinker, as he was called,
was enabled to cut a grand appearance.  He was very fond of hunting, and would frequently join
the field in regular hunting costume, save and except that instead of the leather hunting cap
he wore one of fur, with a gold band round it, to denote that though he mixed with Gorgios
he was still a Romany chal.  Thus equipped, and mounted on a capital hunter, whenever he encountered
a Gipsy encampment he would invariably dash through it, doing all the harm he could, in order,
as he said, to let the juggals know that he was their king, and had a right to do what he pleased
with his own.  Things went on swimmingly for a great many years, but, as prosperity does not
continue for ever, his dark hour came at last.  His wives got into trouble in one or two expeditions,
and his dealings in wafedo loovo to be noised about.  Moreover, by his grand airs and violent
proceedings, he had incurred the hatred of both Gorgios and Gipsies, particularly of the latter,
some of whom he had ridden over and lamed for life.  One day he addressed his two wives—

    “The Gorgios seek to hang me,
    The Gipsies seek to kill me;
    This country we must leave.”

                                    SHURI.

    “I’ll join with you to heaven,
    I’ll fare with you, Yandors,
    But not if Lura goes.”

                                    LURA.

    “I’ll join with you to heaven
    And to the wicked country,
    Though Shuri goeth too.”

                                    RYLEY.

    “Since I must choose betwixt you,
    My choice is Yocky Shuri,
    Though Lura loves me best.”

                                    LURA.

    “My blackest curse on Shuri;
    Oh, Ryley, I’ll not curse you,
    But you will never thrive.”

She then took her departure, with her cart and donkey, and Ryley remained with Shuri.

                                    RYLEY.

    “I’ve chosen now betwixt ye,
    Your wish you now have gotten,
    But for it you shall smart.”

He then struck her with his fist on the cheek and broke her jaw-bone. Shuri uttered no cry
or complaint, only mumbled—

    “Although with broken jaw-bone,
    I’ll follow thee, my Riley,
    Since Lura doesn’t fal.”

Thereupon Ryley and Yocky Shuri left Yorkshire and wended their way to London, where they took
up their abode in the Gipsyry near Shepherd’s Bush.  Shuri went about dukkering and hokking,
but not with the spirit of former times, for she was not quite so young as she had been, and
her jaw, which was never properly cured, pained her very much.  Ryley went about tinkering,
but he was unacquainted with London and its neighbourhood, and did not get much to do.  An
old Gipsy man, who was driving about a little cart filled with skewers, saw him standing in
a state of perplexity at a place where four roads met:—

                                  OLD GIPSY.

    “Methinks I see a brother.
    Who’s your father?  Who’s your mother?
    And what be your name?”

                                    RYLEY.

    “A Bosvil was my father,
    A Bosvil was my mother,
    And Ryley is my name.”

                                  OLD GIPSY.

    “I’m glad to see you, brother;
    I am a kaulo camlo. {218a}
    What service can I do?”

                                    RYLEY.

    “I’m jawing petulengring, {218b}
    But do not know the country;
    Perhaps you’ll show me round.”

                                  OLD GIPSY.

    “I’ll sikker tulle prala!
    Ino bikkening escouyor, {218c}
    And av along with me.”

The old Gipsy showed Ryley about the country for a week or two, and Ryley formed a kind of
connection and did a little business.  He, however, displayed little or no energy, was gloomy
and dissatisfied, and frequently said that his heart was broken since he had left Yorkshire.
Shuri did her best to cheer him, but without effect.  Once when she bade him get up and exert
himself, he said that if he did it would be of no use, and asked her whether she did not remember
the parting prophecy of his other wife, that he would never thrive.  At the end of about two
years he ceased going his rounds, and did nothing but smoke under the arches of the railroad
and loiter about beershops.  At length he became very weak and took to his bed; doctors were
called in by his faithful Shuri, but there is no remedy for a bruised spirit.  A Methodist
came and asked him, “What was his hope?”  “My hope,” said he, “is that when I am dead I shall
be put into the ground, and my wife and children will weep over me,” and such, it may be observed,
is the last hope of every genuine Gipsy.  His hope was gratified.  Shuri and his children,
of whom he had three—two stout young fellows and a girl—gave him a magnificent funeral, and
screamed and shouted and wept over his grave.  They then returned to the “arches,” not to divide
his property among them, and to quarrel about the division, according to Christian practice,
but to destroy it.  They killed his swift pony—still swift though twenty-seven years of age—and
buried it deep in the ground without depriving it of its skin.  Then they broke the caravan
to pieces, making of the fragments a fire, on which they threw his bedding, carpets, curtains,
blankets, and everything which would burn.  Finally, they dashed his mirrors, china, and crockery
to pieces, hacked his metal pots, dishes, and what not to bits, and flung the whole on the
blazing pile. {219}  Such was the life, such the death, and such were the funeral obsequies
of Ryley Bosvil, a Gipsy who will be long remembered amongst the English Romany for his buttons,
his two wives, grand airs, and last not least, for having been the composer of various stanzas
in the Gipsy tongue, which have plenty of force if nothing else to recommend them.  One of
these, addressed to Yocky Shuri, runs as follows:—

    “Beneath the bright sun there is none,
             There is none
    I love like my Yocky Shuri;
    With the greatest delight in blood I would fight
    To the knees for my Yocky Shuri.”

How much better and happier it would have been for this poor, hardened, ignorant, old Gipsy,
if, instead of indulging in such rubbish as he did in the last hours of an idle and wasted
life, he could, after a life spent in doing good to the Gipsies and others over whom he had
influence, as the shades of the evening of life gathered round him, sung, from the bottom of
his heart—fetching tears to his eyes as it did mine a Sunday or two ago—the following verses
to the tune of “Belmont:”—

    “When in the vale of lengthened years
       My feeble feet shall tread,
    And I survey the various scenes
       Through which I have been led,

    “How many mercies will my life
       Before my view unfold!
    What countless dangers will be past!
       What tales of sorrow told!

    “This scene will all my labours end,
       This road conduct on high;
    With comfort I’ll review the past,
       And triumph though I die.”

On the first Sunday in February this year I found myself surrounded by a black, thick London
fog—almost as dense as the blackest midnight, and an overpowering sense of suffocation creeping
over me—in the midst of an encampment of Gipsies at Canning Town, and, acting upon their kind
invitation, I crept into one of their tents, and there found about a dozen Gipsy men of all
sizes, ages, and complexions, squatting upon peg shavings.  Some of their faces looked full
of intelligence and worthy of a better vocation, and others seemed as if they had had the “cropper”
at work round their ears; so short was their hair that any one attempting to “pull it up by
the roots” would have a difficult task, unless he set to it with his teeth.  They looked to
me as if several of them had worn bright steel ornaments round their wrists and had danced
at a county ball, and done more stepping upon the wheel of fortune than many people imagine;
at any rate, they were quite happy in their way, and seemed prepared for another turn round
when needful.  Their first salutation was, “Well, governor, how are you?  Sit you down and
make yourself comfortable, and let’s have a chat.  Never mind if it is Sunday, send for some
‘fourpenny’ for us.”  I partly did as they bid me, but, owing to the darkness of the tent and
the fog, I sat upon a seat that was partly covered with filth, consequently I had an addition
to my trousers more than I bargained for.  I told them my object was not to come to send for
“fourpenny,” but to get a law passed to compel the Gipsy parents to send their children to
school, and to have their tents registered and provided with a kind of school pass book; and,
before I had well finished my remarks, one of the Gipsies, a good-looking fellow, said, “I
say, Bill, that will be a capital thing, won’t it?”  “God bless you, man, for it,” was the
remark of another, and so the thing went the round among them. By this time there were some
score or more Gipsy women and children at the tent door, or, I should rather say, rag coverlet,
who heard what had passed, and they thoroughly fell in with the idea.  The question next turned
upon religion.  They said they had heard that there were half-a-dozen different religions,
and asked me if it was true.  One said he was a Roman Catholic; but did not believe there was
a hell.  Another said he was a Methodist, but could not agree with their singing and praying,
and so it went round till they asked me what religion was.  I told them in a way that seemed
to satisfy them, and I also told them some of its results.  I could not learn that any of these
Gipsies had ever been in a place of worship.

I mentioned to them that I wanted to show, during my inquiries, both sides of the question,
and should be glad if they would point out to me the name of a Gipsy whom they could look up
to and consider as a good pattern for them to follow.  Here they began to scratch their heads,
and said I had put them “a nightcap on.”  “Upon my soul,” said one, “I should not know where
to begin to look for one,” and then related to me the following story:—“The Devil sent word
to some of his agents for them to send him the worst man they could find upon the face of the
earth.  So news went about among various societies everywhere, consultations and meetings were
held, and it was decided that a Gipsy should be sent, as none of the societies or agents could
find one bad enough.  Accordingly a passport was procured, and they started the Gipsy on his
way.  When he came to the door of hell he knocked for admittance.  The Devil shouted out, ‘Who
is there?’  The Gipsy cried out, ‘A Gipsy.’  ‘All right,’ said the Devil; ‘you are just the
man I am wanting.  I have been on the look-out for you some time.  Come in.  I have been told
the Gipsies are the worst folks in all the world.’  The Gipsy had not been long in hell before
the Devil perceived that he was too bad for his place, and the place began to swarm with young
imps to such a degree that the Devil called the Gipsy to him one day, and said, ‘Of all the
people that have ever come to this place you are the worst.  You are too bad for us.  Here
is your passport.  Be off back again!’  The Devil opened the door, and said, as the Gipsy was
going, ‘Make yourself scarce.’  So you see,” said Lee to me, “we are too bad for the Devil.
We’ll go anywhere, fight anybody, or do anything.  Now, lads, drink that ‘fourpenny’ up, and
let’s send for some more.”  This is Gipsy life in England on a Sunday afternoon within the
sound of church bells.

           [Picture: A Fortune-telling Gipsy enjoying her pipe]

The proprietor of the Weekly Times very readily granted permission for one of the principals
of his staff to accompany me to one of the Gipsy encampments a Sunday or two ago on the outskirts
of London.  Those who know the writer would say the article is truthful, and not in the least
overdrawn:—“The lane was full of decent-looking houses, tenanted by labourers in foundries
and gas and waterworks; but there were spaces between the rows of houses, forming yards for
the deposit of garbage, and in these unsavoury spots the Gipsies had drawn up their caravans,
and pitched their smoke-blackened tents.  These yards were separated from each other by rows
of cottages, and each yard contained families related near or distantly, or interested in each
other’s welfare by long associations in the country during summer time, and in such places
as we found them during the winter season.  After spending several hours with these people
in their tents and caravans, and passing from yard to yard, asking the talkative ones questions,
we came to the conclusion that, in the whole bounds of this great metropolis, it would have
been impossible to have found any miscalling themselves Gipsies whose mode of living more urgently
called for the remedial action of the law than the tenants of Lamb-lane.  In the first place,
there was not a true Gipsy amongst them; nor one man, woman, or child who could in any degree
claim relationship with a Gipsy.  They were, all of them, idle loafers, who had adopted the
wandering life of the Gipsy because of the opportunities it afforded of combining a maximum
of idle hours with a minimum of work.  The men exhibited this in their countenances, in the
attitudes they took up, by the whining drawl with which they spoke; the women, by their dirtiness
and inattention to dress; and the children, by their filthy condition. The men and women had
fled from the restraints of house life to escape the daily routine which a home involved; the
men had no higher ambition than to obtain a small sum of money on the Saturday to pay for a
few days’ food.  There was not one man amongst them who could solder a broken kettle; a few,
however, could mend a chair bottom, but there all industrial ability ended; and the others
got their living by shaving skewers from Monday morning to Friday night, which were sold to
butchers at 10d. or 1s. the stone.  These men stayed at home, working over the brazier of burning
coke during the week, while their wives hawked small wool mats or vases, but nothing of their
own manufacture; and the grown-up lads, on market-days, added to the general industry by buying
flowers in Covent-garden, and hawking them in the suburbs of the metropolis.  We were assured
by Mr. Smith that this class of pseudo-Gipsy was largely on the increase, and to check their
spread Mr. Smith suggests that the provisions of an Act of Parliament should be mainly directed.
Only one of all we saw and spoke to on Sunday was ‘a scholar’—that is, could read at all—and
this was a lad of about fourteen, who had spent a few hours occasionally at a Board school.
With all the others the knowledge that comes of reading was an absolute blank.  They knew nothing,
except that the proceeds of the previous week had been below the average; social events of
surpassing interest had not reached them, and the future was limited by ‘to-morrow.’  We questioned
them upon their experiences of the past winter, and the preference they had for their tents
over houses was emphatically marked.  ‘Brick houses,’ said one woman, who was suckling a baby,
‘are so full of draughts.’  Night and day the brazier of burning coke was never allowed to
go low, and under the tent the ground was always dry, however wet it might be outside, because
of the heat from the brazier; besides, they lay upon well-trodden-down straw, six or eight
inches deep, and covered themselves with their clothes, their wraps, their filthy rugs, and
tattered rags, and were as warm as possible.  The tents had many advantages over a brick house.
Besides having no draughts, there was no accumulation of snow upon the tops of the tents; and
so these witless people were content to endure poverty, hunger, cold, and dirt for the sake
of minimising their contribution to the general good of the whole commonwealth.  The poorest
working man in London who does an honest week’s work is a hero compared with such men as these.
It would be impossible to nurture sentiment in any tent in Lamb-lane.  There was no face with
a glimmer of honest self-reliance about it, no face bearing any trace of the strange beauty
we had noticed in other encampments, and no form possessed of any distinguishing grace.  The
whole of the yards were redolent of dirt; and the people, each and all, inexcusably foul in
person.  In several yards little boys or girls sat on the ground in the open air, tending coke
fires over which stood iron pots, and, as the water boiled and raised the lids, it was plain
that the women were taking advantage of the quiet hours of the afternoon for a wash.  Before
we came away from the last yard, lines had been strung across all the yards, and the hastily-washed
linen rags were fluttering in the air.  One tent was closed to visitors. It was then four o’clock,
and a woman told us confidentially her friend was washing a blanket, which she would have to
dry that same afternoon, as it would be ‘wanted’ at night; but ‘the friend’ professed her readiness
to take charge of anything we had to spare for the washerwoman—a mouthful of baccy, a ‘sucker’
for the baby, or ‘three ha’pence for a cup of tea.’  Boys were there of fourteen and sixteen,
with great rents in the knees of their corduroys, who only went out to hawk one day in the
week—Saturday.  They started with a light truck for Covent-garden at four in the morning, and
would have from 4s. to 6s. to lay out in flowers.  When questioned as to what flowers they
had bought on the previous day, one lad said they were ‘tulips, hyacinths, and cyclaments,’
but nobody could give us an intelligible description of the last-named flowers.  Two lads generally
took charge of the flower truck, and the result of the day’s hawking was usually a profit of
half-a-crown to three shillings.  These lads also assisted during the week in shaving skewers,
and accompanied their fathers to market when they had a load to sell.  In one tent we found
a dandy-hen sitting; she had been so occupied one week, and the presence of the children and
adults, who shared her straw bed, in no way discomposed her.  We found that baccy and ‘suckers’
were the most negotiable exchanges with these people.  The women, young and old, small boys
and the men, all smoked, and the day became historic with them because, of the extra smokes
they were able to have.  The ‘suckers’ were the largest specimen of ‘bulls’ eyes’ we could
find—not those dainty specimens sold at the West-end or in the Strand, but real whoppers, almost
the size of pigeons’ eggs; and yet there was no baby whose mouth was not found equal to the
reception and the hiding of the largest; and we noticed as a strange psychological fact that
no baby would consent, though earnestly entreated by its mother, to suffer the ‘sucker’ to
leave its mouth for the mother to look at.  The babies knew better, shaking their wary little
heads at their mothers.  Instinct was stronger than obedience.  We were not sorry to get away
from Lamb-lane, with its filthy habitations, blanket washings, ragged boys and girls, lazy
men and women.  For the genuine Gipsy tribe, and their mysterious promptings to live apart
from their fellows in the lanes and fields of the country, we have a sentimental pity; but
with such as these Lamb-lane people, off-scourings of the lowest form of society, we have no
manner of sympathy; and we hope that a gracious Act of Parliament may soon rid English social
life of such a plague, and teach such people their duty to their children and to society at
large—things they are too ignorant and too idle to learn for themselves.”

My son sends me the following account of a visit he made to a Gipsy encampment near London:—I
visited the camp at Barking Road this afternoon.  Possibly you thought I might not go if you
gave me a correct description of the route, for I certainly went through more muddy streets
and over lock-bridges than your instructions mentioned.  Presuming I was near the camp, I inquired
of a policeman, and was surprised with the reply that there used to be one, but he had not
heard anything of it for a long while.  His mind was evidently wandering, or else he meant
it as a joke, for we were then standing within three hundred yards of the largest encampment
I have yet seen.  It is situated at the back of Barking Road, in what may be termed a field,
but it certainly is not a green one, for the only horse and donkey that I saw were standing
against boxes eating—perhaps corn.

I am surprised that the Gipsies should choose such an exposed, damp place for camping-ground,
as it is always partly under water, and the only shelter afforded being a few houses at the
back and one side; the rest faces, and is consequently exposed to, the bleak winds blowing
over the marsh and the river.

At the entrance I was met by a poor woman taking a child to the doctor, her chief dread being
that if she did not the law would be down upon her. She had put the journey off to the last
minute, for the poor thing looked nearly dead then.

Once in the camp one could not but notice the miserable appearance of the place.  Women and
children, not one of whom could read and write, with scarcely any clothing, the latter without
shoes or stockings.  Twenty to twenty-five old, ragged, and dirty tents—not canvas, but old,
worn-out blankets—separated by the remains of old broken vans, buckets, and rubbish that must
have taken years to accumulate.  Everything betokened age and poverty.  Evidently this field
has been a camping-ground for some years.  Three old vans were all the place could boast of,
and one of those was made out of a two-wheeled cart.

I was for the first ten minutes fully occupied in trying to keep a respectable distance from
a number of dogs of all sizes and breeds, which had the usual appetite for fresh meat and tweed
trowsering, and, at the same time, endeavouring in vain to find solid ground upon which to
stand, for the place at the entrance and all round the tents was one regular mass of deep “slush.”
It soon became known that my pockets were plentifully supplied with half-ounces of tobacco
and sweets.  These I soon disposed off, especially the latter, for there seemed no end to the
little bare-footed children that could walk, and those that couldn’t were brought in turn by
their sisters or brothers.  I was invited to visit all the tents, but I could gain but little
information beyond an account of the severe winter, bad state of trade, your visit in one of
the black, dense fogs, &c.

         [Picture: Inside a Christian Gipsy’s Van—Mrs. Simpson’s]

The men followed the occupation of either tinkers or peg-makers, and all the young women will
pull out their pipe and ask for tobacco as readily as the old ones.

The camp is one of the Lees.  The majority of the men, women, and children are of light complexion,
and, as for a dark-eyed beauty, one was not to be found.  I stayed most of the time under the
“blanket” of the old man, Thomas Lee, who is a jolly old fellow about sixty, and the father
of eleven young children.  He was evidently the life of the camp, for they all flock round
his tent to hear his interesting snatches of song and story.

He had heard that Her Majesty had sent £50 to assist you in getting the children educated,
and just before I left I was pleased to hear him give vent to his feelings with the rough but
patriotic speech that “She was a rare good woman, and a Queen of the right sort.”

It must not be inferred from what I have said, or shall say, that there are no good Gipsies
among them.  Here and there are females to be found ready at all hours and on all occasions
to do good both to the souls and bodies of Gipsies and house-dwellers as they travel with their
basket from door to door hawking their wares; and to illustrate the truth of this I cannot
do better than refer to the case of the good and kind-hearted Mrs. Simpson, who is generally
located with her husband and some grand-children in her van in the neighbourhood near Notting
Hill, on the outskirts of London.  Mrs. Simpson tells me that she is not a thorough Gipsy,
only a half one.  Her father was one of the rare old Gipsy family of Lees, of Norfolk, and
her mother was a Gorgio or Gentile, who preferred following the “witching eye” and “black locks”
to the rag and stick hovel—or, to be more aristocratic, “the tent”—whose roof and sides consisted
of sticks and canvas, with an opening in the roof to serve as a chimney, through which the
smoke arising from the hearth-stick fire could pass, excepting that which settled on the hands
and face. Grass, green, decayed, or otherwise, to serve as a carpet, the brown trampled turf
taking the place of mosaic and encaustic tile pavements, straw instead of a feather-bed, and
a soap-box, tea-chest, and like things doing duty as drawing-room furniture.  Mrs. Simpson,
when quite a child, was always reckoned most clever in the art of deception, telling lies and
fortunes out of a small black Testament, of which she could not read a sentence or tell a letter;
sometimes reading the planets of silly geese, simpletons, and fools out of it when it was upside
down, and when detected she was always ready with a plausible excuse, which they, with open
mouths, always swallowed as Gospel; and for more than twenty-five years she kept herself and
family in this way with sufficient money to keep them in luxury, loose living, and idleness,
till the year of 1859, when, by some unaccountable means, her conscience, which, up to this
time, had been insensible, dull, and without feeling, became awakened, sharp, and alive.  Probably
this quickening took place in consequence of her hearing a good Methodist minister in a mission-room
in the neighbourhood.  The result was that the money she took by telling fortunes began to
burn her fingers, and to make it sit upon her conscience as easy as possible she had a large
pocket made in her dress so that she could drop it in without much handling.  It was no easy
thing to give up such an easy way of getting a living to face the realities of an honest pedlar’s
life, in the midst of “slamming of doors,” “cold-shoulders,” “scowls,” “frowns,” and insults;
and a woman with less determination of character would never have attempted it—or, at least,
if attempted, it would soon have been given up on account of the insurmountable difficulties
surrounding it.  Many times she has sat by the wayside with her basket, after walking and toiling
all day, and not having taken a penny with which to provide the Sunday’s dinner, when at the
last extremity Providence has opened her way and friends have appeared upon the scene, and
she has been enabled to “go on her way rejoicing,” and for the last twenty years she has been
trying to do all the good she can, and to day she is not one penny the loser, but, on the other
hand, a gainer, by following such a course.  Personally, I have received much encouragement
and valuable information at her hands to help me in my work to do the Gipsy children good in
one form or other.  I have frequently called to see the grand old Gipsy woman, sometimes unexpectedly,
and when I have done so I have either found her reading the Bible or else it has been close
to her elbow.  Its stains and soils betoken much wear and constant use.  Very different to
the old woman who put her spectacles into her Bible as she set it upon the clock, and lost
them for more than seven years.  She is a firm believer in prayer; in fact, it seems the very
essence of her life, and she can relate numbers of instances when and where God has answered
her petitions.

    “While I draw this fleeting breath,
    When mine eyes shall close in death,
    When I soar to worlds unknown,
    See Thee on Thy judgment throne;
    Rock of Ages, cleft for me,
    Let me hide myself in Thee.”

                                  * * * * *

    “Just as I am, without one plea,
    But that Thy blood was shed for me,
    And that Thou bidd’st me come to Thee,
    O Lamb of God, I come, I come!

    “I need Thy presence every passing hour;
    What but Thy grace can foil the tempter’s power?
    Who like Thyself my guide and stay can be?
    Through cloud and sunshine, oh, abide with me.”

Upon these promises of help, comfort, warning, encouragement, and consolation, she has many
times rested her wearied body after returning from her day’s trudging and toil, and under these
she has slept peacefully as in the arms of death, ready to answer the Master’s summons, and
to meet with her dear little boy who has crossed the river, when He shall say, “It is enough;
come up hither,” and “sit on My throne.” Although she is a big, powerful woman, and has been
more so in years that are past, when any one begins to talk about Heaven and the happiness
and joy in reserve for those who have a hope of meeting with loved ones again, when the cares
and anxieties of life are ended, it is not long before they see big, scalding, briny tears
rolling down her dark, Gipsy-coloured face, and she will frequently edge in words during the
conversation about her “Dear Saviour” and “Blessed Lord and Master.”  I may mention the names
of other warm-hearted Gipsies who are trying to improve the condition of some of the adult
portion of their brethren and sisters—dwellers upon the turf, and clod scratchers, who feed
many of their poor women and children upon cabbage broth and turnip sauce, and “bed them down,”
after kicks, blows, and ill-usage, upon rotten straw strewn upon the damp ground.  Mrs. Carey,
Mr. and Mrs. Eastwood, Mrs. Hedges, and the three Gipsy brothers Smith, Mrs. Lee, and a few
others, have not laboured without some success, at the same time they are powerless to improve
the condition of the future generations of Gipsy women and children, young mongrels and hut-dwelling
Gorgios, by applying the civilising influences of education and sanitary measures to banish
heathenism worse than that of Africa, idleness, immorality, thieving, lying, and deception
of the deepest dye from our midst, as exhibited in the dwellings of the rag and stick hovels
to be seen flitting about the outskirts, fringe, and scum of our own neglected ragamuffin population,
roaming about under the cognition that the name of a Gipsy is nauseous and disgusting in most
people’s mouths on account of the damning evil practices they have followed and carried out
for centuries upon the honest and industrious artisans, tradesmen, and others they have been
brought in contact with.  A raw-boned Gipsy, with low, slanting forehead, deep-set eyes, large
eyebrows, thick lips, wide mouth, skulkingly slow gait, slouched hat, and a large grizzly-coloured
dog at his heels, in a dark, narrow lane, on a starlight night, is not a pleasant state of
things for a timid and nervous man to grapple with; nevertheless this is one side of a Gipsy’s
life as he goes prowling about in quest of his prey, and as such it is seen by those who know
something of Gipsy life.

    “And they return at evening: they growl like a dog and compass the
    city;
    They—they prowl about for food.
    If (or since) they are not satisfied they spend the night (in the
    search).”

                                                         “Sunday at Home.”

Even my friends, the canal-boatmen, look upon Gipsies as the lowest of the low, and lower down
the social scale than any boatman to be met with. Some of them have gone so far as to try to
shake my nerves by telling me that, now I had taken the Gipsy women and children in hand, they
would not give sixpence for my life.  I could only reply with a smile, and tell them that I
was in safe keeping till the work was done, as in the case of the canal movement.  Frowns,
dogs, sticks, stones, and oaths did not frighten me.  The time had arrived when the vagabondish
life of a Gipsy—so called—should be unmasked and the plain truth made known; and for this the
Gipsies will thank me, if they take into consideration the object I have in view and the end
I am seeking.  My object is to elevate them, through the instrumentality of sanitary officer
and schoolmaster being at work among the children, into respectable citizens of society, earning
an honest livelihood by honourable and legitimate means; far better to do this than to go sneaking
about the country, begging, cadging, lying, and stealing all they can lay their hands upon,
and training their children to put up with the scoffs, sneers, and insults of the Gorgios or
Gentiles for the sake of pocketing a penny at the cost of losing their manhood.  A thousand
times better live a life such as would enable them to look everybody straight in the face than
burrowing and scratching their way into the ground, making skewers at one shilling per stone,
and being considered as outlaws, having the mark of Cain upon their forehead, with their hands
against everybody and everybody against them.  There is no honour in a scamp’s life, credit
in being a thief, glory surrounding a rogue, and halo over the life of a vagabond and a tramp.
To see a half-naked, full grown-man and his wife, with six or eight children, sitting on the
damp ground in rag huts large enough only for a litter of pigs, scratching roasted potatoes
out of the dying embers of a coke fire, as thousands are doing to-day, is enough to freeze
the blood in one’s veins, make one utter a shriek of horror and despair, and to bring down
the wrath of God upon the country that allows such a state of things in her midst.

    “How dark yon dwelling by the solemn grove!”

Part V. The sad Condition of the Gipsies, with Suggestions for their Improvement.

One thing that strikes me in going through the writings of those authors in this country who
have endeavoured to deal with the Gipsy question is, their hesitation to tackle the Gipsy difficulty
at home.  On the surface of the books they have written there appears a disposition to mince
the subject, at all events, that amount of courage has not been put into their works that characterised
Grellmann’s work upon the Gipsies of his own country.  If an account similar to Grellmann’s
had appeared concerning our English Gipsies a century ago, and energetic action had been taken
by our law-makers, instead of publishing an account of the Hungarian and other Continental
Gipsies, it is impossible to calculate the beneficent results that would have accrued long
before this, both to the Gipsies themselves and the country at large.

     [Picture: Inside a Gipsy Fortune-teller’s van near Latimer Road]

One writer deals principally with the Scotch Gipsies, another with the Spanish Gipsies, another
is trying to prove the Egyptian origin of the Gipsies, another is tracing their language, another
treats upon our English Gipsies in a kind of “milk-and-watery” fashion that will neither do
them good nor harm—he pleases his readers, but leaves the Gipsies where he found them, viz.,
in the ditch.  Another went to work on the principle of praying and believing for them; but,
I am sorry to say, in his circumscribed sphere his faith and works fell flat, on account, no
doubt, of this dear, good man and his friends undertaking to do a work which should in that
day have been undertaken by the State, at least, that part of it relating to the education
of the Gipsy children.  They are not in demand as perfect specimens of the human figure from
the crown of the head to the sole of the foot; but few of them, owing to their low, debasing
habits, have arrived at that state of perfection.  I know one real, fine, old Gipsy woman who
sits to artists for the back of her head only, on account of her black, frizzy, raven locks.
One will sit for her eyes, another for the nose, another for the hands and feet, another for
the colour only.  Alfred Smith sits for his feet, and there are others who sit for their legs
and arms.  No class of people, owing to their mixture with other classes, tribes, and nations,
presents a greater variety of models for the artist than the Gipsy.  If an artist wants to
paint a thief he can find a model among the Gipsies.  If he wants to paint a dark highwayman
lurking behind a hedge after his prey he goes to the Gipsy.  If he wants to paint Ajax he goes
to the Gipsy.  If he wants to paint a Grecian, Roman, or Spaniard he goes to the Gipsy.  Of
course there are exceptions, but if an artist wants to paint a large, fine, intellectual-looking
figure, with an open countenance, he keeps away from the Gipsies and seeks his models elsewhere.
Dregs among the Gipsies have produced queens for the artists.

Gipsies with a mixture of English blood in their veins have produced men with pluck, courage,
and stamina, strongly built, with plenty of muscle and bone.  Two “bruisers” of the Gipsy vagabond
class have worn the champion’s belt of the world; and, on the other hand, this mixture of English
and Gipsy blood has produced some fine delicate Grecian forms of female beauty, dove-like,
soft in eye, hand, and heart—the flashy fire in the eye of a Gipsy has been reduced to the
modesty and innocence and simplicity of a child.  Our present race of Gipsies, under the influence
of education, refinement, and religion, will, if properly and wisely taken in hand and dealt
with according to the light of reason and truth, produce a class of men and women well qualified
to take their share, for weal or for woe, in the struggle of life.

Some first-rate songsters and musicians have been produced among the Gipsies, and whose merits
have been acknowledged.  Perhaps the highest compliment ever paid to a singer was paid by Catalini
herself to one of the daughters of a tanned and tawny skin.  No doubt there are many good voices
among our Gipsies; what is required to bring them out is education and culture. Our best Gipsy
songsters and musicians are in Wales.

The following is a specimen of a Gipsy poetic effusion, which my Gipsy admirers will not consider
an extraordinarily high-flown production—the outcome of nearly one million Gipsies who have
wandered up and down Europe for more than three hundred years, as related by Borrow.

TWO GIPSIES.

    “Two Gipsy lads were transported,
    Were sent across the great water;
    Plato was sent for rioting,
    And Louis for stealing the purse
          Of a great lady.

    “And when they came to the other country,
    The country that lies across the water,
    Plato was speedily hung,
    But Louis was taken as a husband
          By a great lady.

    “You wish to know who was the lady:
    ’Twas the lady from whom he stole the purse;
    The Gipsy had a black and witching eye,
    And on account of that she followed him
          Across the great water.”

Smart and Crofton, speaking poetically and romantically of Gipsy life, say as follows:—

“With the first spring sunshine comes the old longing to be off, and soon is seen, issuing
from his winter quarters, a little cavalcade, tilted cart, bag and baggage, donkeys and dogs,
rom, romni, and tickni, chavis, and the happy family is once more under weigh for the open
country.  With dark, restless eye and coarse, black hair fluttered by the breeze, he slouches
along, singing as he goes, in heart, if not in precise words—

    “I loiter down by thorpe and town,
       For any job I’m willing;
    Take here and there a dusty brown,
       And here and there a shilling.

No carpet can please him like the soft green turf, and no curtains compare with the snow-white
blossoming hedgerow thereon.  A child of Nature, he loves to repose on the bare breast of the
great mother.  As the smoke of his evening fire goes up to heaven, and the savoury odour of
roast hotchi witchi or of canengri soup salutes his nostrils, he sits in the deepening twilight
drinking in with unconscious delight all the sights and sounds which the country affords; with
his keen senses alive to every external impression he feels that

    “’Tis sweet to see the evening star appear,
    ’Tis sweet to listen as the night winds creep
          From leaf to leaf.

He dreamily hears the distant bark of the prowling fox, and the melancholy hootings of the
wood owls; he marks the shriek of the night-wandering weasel, and the rustle of the bushes
as some startled forest creature darts into deep coverts; or, perchance, the faint sounds from
a sequestered hamlet of a great city.  Cradled from infancy in such haunts as these ‘places
of nestling green for poets made,’ and surely for Gipsies too, no wonder if, after the fitful
fever of town life, he sleeps well, with the unforgotten and dearly-loved lullabies of his
childhood soothing him to rest.”

The following is in their own Gipsy language to each other, and exhibits a true type of the
feeling of revenge they foster to one another for wrongs done and injuries received, and may
be considered a fair specimen of the disposition of thousands of Gipsies in our midst:—“Just
see, mates, what a blackguard he is.  He has been telling wicked lies about us, the cursed
dog.  I will murder him when I get hold of him.  That creature, his wife, is just as bad. 
She is worse than he.  Let us thrash them both and drive them out of our society, and not let
them come near us, such cut-throats and informers as they are.  They are nothing but murderers.
They are informers.  We shall all come to grief through their misdoings.”  Not much poetry
and romance in language and characters of this description.

    “These Indians ne’er forget
    Nor evermore forgive an injury.”

The following is a wail of their own, taken from Smart and Crofton, and will show that the
Gipsies themselves do not think tent life is so delightful, happy, and free as has been pictured
in the imaginative brain of novel writers, whose knowledge has been gained by visiting the
Gipsies as they have basked on the grassy banks on a hot summer day, surrounded by the warbling
songsters and rippling brooks of water, as clear as crystal, at their feet, sending forth dribbling
sounds of enchantment to fall upon musical ears, touching the cords of poetic affection and
lyric sympathy:—“Now, mates, be quick.  Put your tent up.  Much rain will come down, and snow,
too—we shall all die to-night of cold; and bring something to make a good fire, too.  Put the
tent down well, much wind will come this night.  My children will die of cold.  Put all the
rods in the ground properly to make it stand well.  The poor children cry for food.  My God!
what shall I do to give them food to eat?  I have nothing to give them.  They will die without
food.”

My object in this part will be to deal with the Gipsy question in a hard, matter of fact way,
both as regards their present condition and the only remedy by which they are to be improved.
No one believes in the power of the Gospel more than I do as to its being able to rescue the
very dregs of society from misery and wretchedness; but in the case of the Gipsies and canal-boatmen
they cannot be got together so as to be brought under its influence.  Their darkness, ignorance,
and flitting habits, prevent them either reading about Jesus or being brought within the magic
spell of the Gospel.  When once the Gipsy children have learned to read and write I shall then
have more faith in the power of God’s truth reaching the hearts of the Gipsies and producing
better results.

The following letter has been handed to me by the uncle, to show what a little, dark-eyed Gipsy
girl of twelve years of age can do. Notwithstanding all its faults it is a credit to the little
beauty, especially if it is taken into consideration that she has had no father to teach her,
and she has chiefly been her own schoolmaster and mistress. She is the only one who can read
and write in a large family.  Her books have been sign-boards, guide-posts, and mile-stones,
and her light the red glare of a coke fire.  I give the letter to show two things; first, that
there is a strong desire among the poor Gipsy children for education; second, that there is
that mental calibre about the Gipsy children of the present generation that only requires fostering,
handling, educating, and caring for as other children are to produce in the next generation
a class of people of whom no country need be ashamed. They will be equal to stand shoulder
to shoulder with other labouring classes.

                           (Copy of envelope.)

                               “JOB CLATAN
                              “Char bottomar
                            “at ash be hols in
                              “Darbyshere.”

                            (Copy of letter.)

                                                          “febury 18 1880.

“Dear uncel and Aunt

“I wright these few li to you hoping find you all well.

“Fanny Vickers as sent you a rose father and Mother as sent there best love to you I think
it is very strang you have never wrote it is Twenty year if live till may it is a strang thing
you doant com to see her  She is stark stone blind and lives with son john at gurtain  I hope
and trust you will send us word how you are getting  Fanny mother is not only a very poor crater
somtimes Mother often thinks she should often like to see your bazy and joby you might com
land see us in the summer if we had nothing elce I ca il find them something to eat  if mother
never see you in this world she is hopining to see you in heaven  so no more from your afexenen
brother and sister Vickers  good buy * * * * Kiss all on you * * * *”

In speaking of the Gipsies in Scotland sixty years ago, Mr. Deputy-Sheriff Moor, of Aberdeenshire,
says as follows:—“Occasionally vagrants, both single and in bands, appear in this part of the
country, resorting to fairs, when they commit depredations on the unwary.”  Sir Walter Scott,
Bart., says of the Gipsies:—“A set of people possessing the same erratic habits, and practising
the trade of tinkers, are well known in the Borders, and have often fallen under the cognisance
of the law. They are often called Gipsies, and pass through the country annually in small bands,
with their carts and asses.  The men are tinkers, poachers, and thieves upon a small scale,”
and he goes on to say that “some of the more atrocious families have been extirpated.”  Mr.
Riddell, Justice of Peace for Roxburghshire, says:—“They are thorough desperadoes of the worst
class of vagabonds.  Those who travel through this county give offence chiefly by poaching
and small thefts.  All of them are perfectly ignorant of religion.  They marry and cohabit
amongst each other, and are held in a sort of horror by the common people.”  Mr. William Smith,
the Baillie of Kelso, and a gentlemen of high position, says:—“Some kind of honour peculiar
to themselves seems to prevail in their community.  They reckon it a disgrace to steal near
their homes, or even at a distance if detected.  I must always except that petty theft of feeding
their shilties and asses on the farmers’ grass and corn, which they will do whether at home
or abroad.”  And he further says, “I am sorry to say, however, that when checked in their licentious
appropriations they are much addicted both to threaten and to execute revenge.”  Mr. Smith
always visited the Gipsies upon one of the estates of which he had the charge, consequently
he would be likely to know more about them than most people. A number of other gentleman confirmed
these statements.  By comparing these remarks with the statements of Mr. Harrison in a letter
published in the Standard last August, backing up my case, it will be seen that the Scotch
Gipsies if anything have degenerated.  Mr. Harrison’s letter will be found in Part II.

Much has been said and written with reference to their health and age. For my own part I firmly
believe that the great ages to which they say they live—of course there are many exceptions—are
only myths and delusions, and another of their dodges to excite sympathy.  From the days of
their debauchery, and becoming what are termed under a respectable phrase for Gipsies, “old
hags,” they seem to jump from sixty to between seventy and eighty at a bound.  I was talking
to one I considered an old woman as to her age only a day or two ago, and she said, with a
pitiful tone, “I am a long way over seventy,” and I asked her if she could tell me the year
in which she was born, to which she replied that she “was sixteen when the good Queen was crowned.”

The following case, related to me by the tradesman himself, at Battersea—a sharp, quick, business
gentleman, who boasted to me that he had never been sold before by any one—will show faintly
how clever the Gipsy women are at lying, deception, and cheating:—Three pretty, well-dressed
Gipsy women went into his shop one day last summer, and said that they had arranged to have
a christening on the morrow, and as beer got into the heads of their men, and made them wild,
which they did not like to see on such occasions, they had decided to have a quiet, little,
respectable affair, and in place of beer they were going to have wine, cakes, and biscuits
after their tea; and they ordered some currant cake, several bottles of wine, tea, sugar, and
other things required on such occasions, to the amount of two pounds fourteen shillings.  The
Gipsies asked to have the bill made out and the goods packed in a hamper.  And while this was
being done the Gipsies said to the tradesman: “Now, as we have ordered so much from you, we
think that you ought to buy a mat or two and other things of us.”  Without consulting his wife,
he agreed to buy one or two things, to the amount of eleven shillings, which the tradesman
had thought would have been deducted from their account; but the Gipsies thought differently—and
here was the craft—and said, “We don’t understand figures.  You had better pay us for the mats,
&c., and we will pay you for the wine.”  The tradesman, who was thrown off his guard, paid
them the eleven shillings.  With this they walked out of his shop, saying that they would take
the bill with them, and send a man with the money and a barrow for the wine, cake, &c., in
a few minutes, which they did not, but left the tradesman a wiser but sadder man for spending
eleven shillings in things he did not require; and his remarks to me were, “No more Gipsies
for me, thank you.  I’ve had quite plenty of Gipsies for my lifetime.”

Cases have been known when the Gipsy women have gone among the farmers’ cattle and rubbed their
nostrils with some nastiness to such an extent as to cause the cattle to loathe their food.
The Gipsy in the lane—who of course knows all about the affair—goes to the farmer and tells
him he can cure his cattle.  This is agreed upon.  All the Gipsy does is to visit the cattle
secretly and slyly, and rub off the nastiness he has put on. The cattle immediately begin to
eat their food, and the Gipsy gets his fee.  They kill lambs by sticking pins into their heads.

Tallemant says that near Peye, in Picardy, a Gipsy offered a stolen sheep to a butcher for
one hundred sous, or five francs; but the butcher declined to give more than four francs for
it.  The butcher then went away; whereupon the Gipsy pulled the sheep from a sack into which
he had put it, and substituted for it a child belonging to his tribe.  He then ran after the
butcher, and said, “Give me five francs, and you shall have the sack into the bargain.”  The
butcher paid him the money, and went away.  When he got home he opened the sack, and was much
astonished when he saw a little boy jump out of it, who in an instant caught up the sack and
ran off.  “Never was a poor man so hoaxed as this butcher.”  When they want to leave a place
where they have been stopping they set out in an opposite direction to that in their right
course.  The Gipsies have a thousand other tricks—so says one of the Gipsy fraternity named
Pechou de Ruby.  Paul Lacroix says that when they take up their quarters in any village they
steal very little in its immediate vicinity, but in the neighbouring parishes they rob and
plunder in the most daring manner.  If they find a sum of money they give notice to the captain,
and make a rapid flight from the place.  They make counterfeit money, and put it into circulation.
They play all sorts of games; they buy all sorts of horses, whether sound or unsound, provided
they can manage to pay for them in their own base coin.  When they buy food, they pay for it
in good money the first time, as they are held in such distrust; but when they are about to
leave a neighbourhood they again buy something, for which they tender false coin, receiving
the change in good money.  In harvest time all doors are shut against them, nevertheless they
contrive, by means of picklocks and other instruments, to effect an entrance into houses, when
they steal linen, clocks, silver, and any other movable article which they can lay their hands
upon.  They give a strict account of everything to their captain, who takes his share.  They
are very clever in making a good bargain.  When they know of a rich merchant living in the
place, they disguise themselves, enter into communication with him, and swindle him, after
which they change their clothes, have their horses shod the reverse way, and the shoes covered
with some soft material, lest they should be heard, and gallop away.  Grellmann says:—“The
miserable condition of the Gipsies may be imagined from the following facts: many of them,
and especially the women, have been burned, by their own request, in order to end their miserable
existence; and we can give the case of a Gipsy, who, having been arrested, flogged, and conducted
to the frontier, with the threat that if he re-appeared in the country he would be hanged,
resolutely returned after three successive and similar threats at three different places, and
implored that the capital sentence might be carried out, in order that he might be released
from a life of such misery.”  And he goes on to say that “these unfortunate people were not
even looked upon as human beings, for during a hunting party the huntsmen had no scruple whatever
in killing a Gipsy woman who was suckling her child, just as they would have done any wild
beast which came in their way.”  And he further says that they received “into their ranks all
those whose crime, the fear and punishment of an uneasy conscience, or the charm of a roaming
life continually threw in their path; they made use of them either to find their way into countries
of which they were ignorant, or to commit robberies which would otherwise have been impracticable.
They were not slow to form an alliance with profligate characters, who sometimes worked in
concert with them.”

A century ago it was somewhat romantic, and answered very well as a contrast to civilisation,
to see a number of people moving about the country, dressed in beaver hats and bonnets, scarlet
cloaks and hoods, short petticoats, velvet coats with silver buttons, and a plentiful supply
of gold rings.  The novelty of their person, with dark skin and eyes, black hair, and their
fortune-telling proclivities, and other odd curiosities and eccentricities, answered well for
a time as a kind of eye-blinder to their little thefts and like things; but that day is over.
Their silver buttons are all gone to pot.  Their silk velvet coats, plush waistcoats, and diamond
rings have vanished, never more to return with their present course of life; patched breeches,
torn coats, slouched hats, and washed gold rings have taken their places, and ragged garments
in place of silk dresses for the poor Gipsy women.  The Gipsy men “lollock” about, the women
tell fortunes, and the children gambol on the ditch banks with impunity, nobody caring to interfere
with them in any way.  This kind of thing, as regards dash and show, is to a great extent passed,
and those men who put on a show of work at all, it is as a general thing at tinkering, chair-mending,
peg-splitting, skewer-making, and donkey buying.  The men make the skewers and sell them at
prices varying from one shilling to two shillings per stone; the wood for the skewers they
do not always buy.  A friend of mine told me a couple of months since that the Gipsies had
broken down his fences with impunity, and had taken five hundred young saplings out of his
plantation for this purpose.  Chairs are bottomed at prices ranging from one shilling and upwards.
Some of them do scissor-grinding, for which they charge exorbitant prices.  Sir G. H. Beaumont,
Bart., of Coleorton Hall, told me very recently that one of the Boswell gang had charged him
two shillings for grinding one knife.  Some of the women, who are not good hands at fortune-telling,
sell artificial flowers, combs, brushes, lace, &c.  The women who are good at fortune-telling
can make a good thing out of it, even at this late day, in the midst of so much light and Christianity,
and they carry it out very adroitly and cleverly too.  Two or three months ago I was invited
by some Gipsy friends to have tea with them on the outskirts of London.  They very kindly sent
for twopenny worth of butter for me, and allowed me the honour of using the only cup and saucer,
which they said were over one hundred years old.  The tea for the grown-up sons and daughters
was handed round in mugs, jugs, and basins. The good old man cut my bread and butter with his
dark coloured hands pretty thin, but the bread for his sons and daughters was like pieces of
bricks, which, with pieces of bacon, he pitched at them without any ceremony, and as they caught
it they, although men and women, kept saying “Thank you, pa,” “Thank you, pa,” and down it
went without either knives or forks, or very little grinding.  We were all sitting upon the
floor, my table being an undressed brick out of some old building, and it was with some difficulty
I could keep the pigs that were running loose in the yard from taking a piece off my plate,
but with a pretty free use of my toe I kept sending the little grunters squeaking away.  After
tea I felt a little curious to know what was in the big old Gipsy dame’s basket, for I had
an idea one or two hair-brushes, combs, laces, and other small trifles which lay on the top
of a small piece of oilcloth covering the inside of the basket had, by their greasy appearance,
done duty for many a long day.  I told the old Gipsy dame that I was going home the next day,
and should like to take a little thing or two for my little ones at home, as having been bought
of a Gipsy woman near London.  The sharp old woman was not long in offering me one or two of
her trifles that lay on the top of her basket, but these I said were not so suitable as I should
like.  “Had she nothing more suitable lower down as a small present?” After a little fumbling
and flustering she began to see my motive, and said, “Ah!  I see what you are after.  I will
tell you the truth and show you all.”  She turned the oilcloth off the basket, underneath of
which were “shank ends” of joints, ham-bones, pieces of bacon, and crusts. “These,” she said,
“have been given to me by servant girls and others for telling their fortunes, really lies,
and I have brought them here for my children to live upon, and this is how we live.”

       [Picture: Gipsy Fortune-tellers cooking their evening meal]

Fortune-telling is a soul-crushing and deadly crying evil, and it is far from being stamped
out.  A hawker’s licence, about the size of one of these pages, covers a life-time of sin and
iniquity in this respect.  A basket with half-a-dozen brushes, combs, laces, a piece of oilcloth,
and a pocket Bible, is all the stock-in-trade they require, and it will serve them for a year.
They generally prophecy good.  Knowing the readiest way to deceive, to a young lady they describe
a handsome gentleman as one she may be assured will be her “husband.”  To a youth they promise
a pretty lady with a large fortune.  And thus suiting their deluding speeches to the age, circumstances,
anticipations, and prospects of those who employ them, they seldom fail to please their vanity,
and often gain a rich reward for their fraud.

A young lady in Gloucestershire allowed herself to be deluded by a Gipsy woman, of artful and
insinuating address, to a very great extent.  This lady admired a young gentleman, and the
Gipsy promised that he would return her love.  The lady gave her all the plate in the house,
and a gold chain and locket, with no other security than a vain promise that they should be
restored at a given period.  As might be expected, the wicked woman was soon off with her booty,
and the lady was obliged to expose her folly.  The property being too much to lose, the woman
was pursued and overtaken.  She was found washing her clothes in a Gipsy camp, with the gold
chain about her neck.  She was taken up, but on restoring the articles was allowed to escape.

The same woman afterwards persuaded a gentleman’s groom that she could put him in possession
of a great sum of money if he would first deposit with her all he then had.  He gave her five
pounds and his watch, and borrowed for her ten more of two of his friends.  She engaged to
meet him at midnight in a certain place a mile from the town where he lived, and that he there
should dig up out of the ground a silver pot full of gold covered with a clean napkin.  He
went with his pickaxe and shovel at the appointed time to the supposed lucky spot, having his
confidence strengthened by a dream he happened to have about money, which he considered a favourable
omen of the wealth he was soon to receive.  Of course he met no Gipsy; she had fled another
way with the property she had so wickedly obtained.  While waiting her arrival a hare started
suddenly from its resting-place and so alarmed him that he as suddenly took to his heels and
made no stop till he reached his master’s house, where he awoke his fellow-servants and told
to them his disaster.

This woman, who made so many dupes, rode a good horse, and dressed both gaily and expensively.
One of her saddles cost thirty pounds.  It was literally studded with silver, for she carried
on it the emblems of her profession wrought in that metal—namely, a half moon, seven stars,
and the rising sun.  Poor woman! her sun is set.  Her sins have found her out.  Fortune-tellers
die hard without exception, so I am told by the Gipsies themselves.

Some time ago a gentleman followed several Gipsy families.  Arriving at the place of their
encampment his first object was to gain their confidence.  This was accomplished; after which,
to amuse their unexpected visitant, they showed forth their night diversions in music and dancing;
likewise the means by which they obtained their livelihood, such as tinkering, fortune-telling,
and conjuring.  That the gentleman might be satisfied whether he had obtained their confidence
or not, he represented his dangerous situation, in the midst of which they all with one voice
cried, “Sir, we would kiss your feet rather than hurt you!” After manifesting a confidence
in return, the master of this formidable gang, about forty in number, was challenged by the
gentleman for a conjuring match.  The challenge was instantly accepted.  The Gipsies placed
themselves in a circular form, and both being in the middle commenced with their conjuring
powers to the best advantage.  At last the visitor proposed the making of something out of
nothing.  This proposal was accepted.  A stone which never existed was to be created, and appear
in a certain form in the middle of a circle made on the turf.  The master of the gang commenced,
and after much stamping with his foot, and the gentleman warmly exhorting him to cry aloud,
like the roaring of a lion, he endeavoured to call forth nonentity into existence.  Asking
him if he could do it, he answered, “I am not strong enough.”  They were all asked the same
question, which received the same answer.  The visitor commenced.  Every eye was fixed upon
him, eager to behold this unheard-of exploit; but (and not to be wondered at) he failed! telling
them he possessed no more power to create than themselves.  Perceiving the thought of insufficiency
pervading their minds, he thus spoke: “Now, if you have not power to create a poor little stone,
and if 1 have not power either, what must that power be which made the whole world out of nothing?—men,
women, and children! that power I call God Almighty.”

I have been told that the dislike they have to rule and order has led many of them to maim
themselves by cutting off a finger, that they might not serve in either the army or the navy;
and I believe there is one instance known of some Gipsies murdering a witness who was to appear
against some of their people for horse-stealing; the persons who were guilty of the deed are
dead, and in their last moments exclaimed with horror and despair, “Murder, murder.”  But these
circumstances do not stamp their race without exception as infamous monsters in wickedness.

The following is a remarkable instance of the love of costly attire in a female Gipsy of the
old school.  The woman alluded to obtained a very large sum of money from three maiden ladies,
pledging that it should be doubled by her art in conjuration.  She then decamped to another
district, where she bought a blood-horse, a black beaver hat, a new side-saddle and bridle,
a silver-mounted whip, and figured away in her ill-obtained finery at the fairs.  It is not
easy to imagine the disappointment and resentment of the covetous and credulous ladies, whom
she had so easily duped.  With the present race of our gutter-scum Gipsies the last remnant
of Gipsy pride is nearly dead—poverty, rags, and despair taking the place.

Gipsies of the old type are not strangers to pawnbrokers’ shops; but they do not visit these
places for the same purposes as the vitiated poor of our trading towns.  A pawnshop is their
bank.  When they acquire property illegally, as by stealing, swindling, or fortune-telling,
they purchase valuable plate, and sometimes in the same hour pledge it for safety. Such property
they have in store against days of adversity and trouble, which on account of their dishonest
habits often overtake them.  Should one of their families stand before a judge of his country,
charged with a crime which is likely to cost him his life, or to transport him, every article
of value is sacrificed to save him from death or apprehended banishment.  In such cases they
generally retain a counsel to plead for the brother in adversity.  Their attachment to the
horse, donkey, rings, snuff-box, silver spoons, and all things, except the clothes, of the
deceased relatives is very strong.  With such articles they will never part, except in the
greatest distress, and then they only pledge some of them, which are redeemed as soon as they
possess the means.

It has been stated by some writers, that there is hardly a Gipsy in existence who could not,
if desired, produce his ten or twenty pounds “at a pinch.”  Some of those who work, no doubt,
could; but it is entirely erroneous, as many other statements relating to the Gipsies, to imagine
that the whole of them are as well off as all this.  Smith tells us that there is not one in
twenty who can show one pound, much less twenty.  A Gipsy named Boswell travelled about in
the Midland counties with a large van pretty well stocked with his wares, and everybody, especially
the Gipsies, thought he was a rich man; but in course of time it came to pass that he died,
which event revealed the fact that he was not worth half-a-crown.  No class of men and women
under the sun has been more wicked than the Gipsies, and no class has prospered less.  By their
evil deeds for centuries they have brought themselves under the curse of God and the lash of
the law wherever they have been.

    “To our foes we leave a shame! disgrace can never die;
    Their sons shall blush to hear a name still blackened with a lie.”

Their miserable condition, the persecution, misrepresentation, and the treatment they are receiving
are due entirely to their own evil-doing—lying, cheating, robbing, and murder bring their own
reward. The Gipsies of to-day are drinking the dregs of the cups they had mixed for others.
The sly wink of the eye intended to touch the heart of the innocent and simple has proved to
be the electric spark that has reached heaven, and brought down the vengeance of Jehovah upon
their heads.  The lies proceeding from their bad hearts have turned out to be a swarm of wasps
settling down upon their own pates; their stolen goods have been smitten with God’s wrath;
the horses, mules, and donkeys in their unlawful possession are steeds upon which the Gipsies
are riding to hell; and the fortune-telling cards are burning the fingers of the Gipsy women;
in one word, the curse of God is following them in every footstep on account of their present
sins, and not on account of their past traditions.  Immediately they alter their course of
life, and “cease to do evil and learn to do well”—no matter whether they are Jews or barbarians,
bond or free—the blessing of God will follow, and they will begin to thrive and prosper.

Smoking and eating tobacco adds another leaden weight to those already round their neck, and
it helps to bow them down to the ground—a short black pipe, the ranker and oftener it has been
used the more delicious will be the flavour, and the better they will like it.  When their
“baccy” is getting “run out,” the short pipe is handed round to the company of Gipsies squatting
upon the ground, without any delicacy of feeling, for all of them to “have a pull.”  Spittoons
are things they never use.  White, scented, cambric pocket-handkerchiefs are not often brought
into request upon their “lovely faces.”  They prefer allowing the bottom of the dresses the
honour of appearing before his worship “the nose.”  Nothing pleases the Gipsies better than
to give them some of the weed.  I saw a poor, dying, old Gipsy woman the other day.  Nothing
seemed to please her so much, although she could scarcely speak, as to delight in referring
to the sins of her youth, of a kind before referred to, and no present was so acceptable to
her as “a nounce of baccy.”  She said she “would rather have it than gold,” and I “could not
have pleased her better.”  I doubt whether she lived to smoke it.  I think I am speaking within
the mark when I state that fully three-fourths of the Gipsy women in this country are inveterate
smokers.  It is a black, burning shame for us to have such a state of things in our midst.
In nine cases out of ten the children of drunken, smoking women will turn out to be worthless
scamps and vagabonds, and a glance at the Gipsies will prove my statements.

Eternity will reveal their deeds of darkness—murders, immorality, torturous and heart-rending
treatment to their poor slaves of women, beastly and murderous brutality to their poor children.
There is a terrible reckoning coming for the “Gipsy man,” who can chuckle to his fowls, and
kick, with his iron-soled boot, his poor child to death; who can warm and shelter his blackbird,
and send the offspring of his own body to sleep upon rotten straw and the dung-heap, covered
over with sticks and rags, through which light, hail, wind, rain, sleet, and snow can find
its way without let or hinderance; who can take upon his knees a dog and fondle it in his bosom,
and, at the same time, spit in his wife’s face with oaths and cursing, and send her out in
the snow on a piercing-cold winter’s day, half clad and worse fed, with child on her back and
basket on her arm, to practise the art of double-dyed lying and deception on honest, simple
people, in order to bring back her ill-gotten gains to her semi-clad hovel, on which to fatten
her “lord and master,” by half-cleaned knuckle-bones, ham-shanks, and pieces of bacon that
fall from the “rich man’s table.”

The following is a specimen of house-dwelling Gipsies in the Midlands I have visited.  In the
room downstairs there were a broken-down old squab, two rickety old chairs, and a three-legged
table that had to be propped against the wall, and a rusty old poker, with a smoking fire-place.
The Gipsy father was a strong man, not over fond of work; he had been in prison once; the mother,
a strong Gipsy woman of the old type, marked with small-pox, and plenty of tongue—by the way,
I may say I have not yet seen a dumb and deaf Gipsy.  She turned up her dress sleeves and showed
me how she had “made the blood run out of another Gipsy woman for hitting her child.”  As she
came near to me exhibiting her fisticuffing powers, I might have been a little nervous years
ago; but dealing with men and things in a rough kind of fashion for so many years has taken
some amount of nervousness of this kind out of me.

It may be as well to remark here that the Gipsy women can do their share of fighting, and are
as equally pleased to have a stand-up fight as the Gipsy men are.  One of these Gipsy women
lives with a man who is not a thorough Gipsy, who spends a deal of his time under lock and
key on account of his poaching inclinations; and other members of this large family are on
the same kind of sliding scale, and not one of whom can read or write.

It is not pleasant to say strong things about clergymen, for whom I have the highest respect;
nevertheless, there are times when respect for Christ’s church, duty to country, love for the
children and anxiety for their eternal welfare, compels you to step out of the beaten rut to
expose, though with pain, wrong-doing.  In a day and Sunday school-yard connected with the
Church of England, not one hundred miles from London, there are to be seen—and I am informed
by them, except during the hop-picking season, that it is their camping-ground, and has been
for years—one van, in which there are man, wife, young woman, and a daughter of about fourteen
years of age; the young woman and daughter sleep in a kind of box under the man and his wife.
In another part of the yard is a Gipsy tent, where God’s broad earth answers the purpose of
a table, and a “batten of straw” serves as a bed.  There is a woman, two daughters, one of
whom is of marriageable age and the other far in her teens, and a youth I should think about
sixteen years of age.  I should judge that the mother and her two daughters sleep on one bed
at one end of the tent and the youth at the other; there is no partition between them, and
only about seven feet of space between each bed of litter.  In another tent there is man, wife,
and one child.  When I was there, on the Sunday afternoon, they were expecting the Gipsy “to
come home to his tent drunk and wake the baby.”  In another tent there was a Gipsy with his
lawful wife and three children.  One of the Gipsy women in the yard frequently came home drunk,
and I have seen her smoking with a black pipe in her mouth three parts tipsy.  Now, I ask my
countrymen if this is the way to either improve the habits and morals of the Gipsies themselves,
or to set a good example to day and Sunday scholars.  Drunkenness is one of the evil associations
of Gipsy life.  Brandy and “fourpenny,” or “hell fire,” as it is sometimes called, are their
chief drinks.  A Gipsy of the name of Lee boasted to me only a day or two since that he had
been drunk every night for more than a fortnight, his language being, “Oh! it is delightful
to get drunk, tumble into a row, and smash their peepers. What care we for the bobbies.”  They
seldom if ever use tumblers.  A large jug is filled with this stuff, in colour and thickness
almost like treacle and water, leaving a kind of salty taste behind it as it passes out of
sight; but, I am sorry to say, not out of the body, mind, or brain, leaving a trail upon which
is written—more! more! more!  Under its influence they either turn saints or demons as will
best serve their purpose.  The more drink some of the Gipsy women get the more the red coloured
piety is observable in their faces, and when I have been talking to them, or otherwise, they
have said, “Amen,” “Bless the Lord,” “Oh, it is nice to be ’ligious and Christany,” as they
have closed round me; and with the same breath they have begun to talk of murder, bloodshed,
and revenge, and to say, “How nice it is to get a living by telling lies.” Half an ounce of
tobacco and a few gentle words have a most wonderful effect upon their spirits and nerves under
such circumstances.  I have frequently seen drunken Gipsy women in the streets of London. 
Early this year I met one of my old Gipsy women friends in Garrett Lane, Wandsworth, with evidently
more than she could carry, and a weakness was observable in her knees; and when she saw me
she was not so far gone as not to know who I was.  She tried to make a curtsy, and in doing
so very nearly lost her balance, and it took her some ten yards to recover her perpendicular.
With a little struggling, stuttering, and stumbling, she got right, and pursued her way to
the tent.

In December of last year four Gipsies, of Acton Green, were charged before the magistrates
at Hammersmith with violently assaulting an innkeeper for refusing to allow them to go into
a private part of his house.  A terrible struggle ensued, and a long knife was fetched out
of their tents, and had they not been stopped the consequences might have been fearful.  They
were sent to gaol for two months, which would give them time for reflection.  A few days ago
two Gipsies from the East End of London were sent to gaol for thieving, and are now having
their turn upon the wheel of fortune.

    “Whirl fiery circles, and the moon is full:
    Imps with long tongues are licking at my brow,
    And snakes with eyes of flame crawl up my breast;
    Huge monsters glare upon me, some with horns,
    And some with hoofs that blaze like pitchy brands;
    Great trunks have some, and some are hung with beads.
    Here serpents dash their stings into my face,
    All tipped with fire; and there a wild bird drives
    His red-hot talons in my burning scalp.
    Here bees and beetles buzz about my ears
    Like crackling coals, and frogs strut up and down
    Like hissing cinders; wasps and waterflies
    Scorch deep like melting minerals.  Murther!  Fire!”

Cries the Gipsy, as he rolls about on his bed of filthy litter, in a tent whose only furniture
is an old tin bucket pierced with holes, a soap-box, and a few rags, with a poor-looking, miserable
woman for a wife, and a lot of wretched half-starved, half-naked children crying round him
for bread.  “Give us bread!”  “Give us bread!” is their piteous cry.

The Gipsy in Hungary is a being who has puzzled the wits of the inhabitants for centuries,
and the habits of the Hungarian Gipsies are abominable; their hovels, for they do not all live
in tents and encampments, are sinks of the vilest poverty and filth; their dress is nothing
but rags, and they live on carrion; and it is in this pitiable condition they go singing and
dancing to hell.  Nothing gives them more pleasure than to be told where a dead pig, horse,
or cow may be found, and the Gipsies, young and old, will scamper to fetch it; decomposition
rather sharpens their ravenous appetites; at any rate, they will not “turn their noses up”
at it in disgust; in fact, Grellmann goes so far as to say that human flesh is a dainty morsel,
especially that of children. What applies to the Hungarian Gipsies will to a large extent apply
to the Gipsies in Spain, Germany, France, Russia, and our own country.  There is no proof of
our Gipsies eating children; but if I am to believe their own statements, the dead dogs, cats,
and pigs that happen to be in their way run the risk of being potted for soup, and causing
a “smacking of the lips” as the heathens sit round their kettle—which answers the purpose of
a swill-tub when not needed for cooking—as it hangs over the coke fire, into which they dip
their platters with relish and delight.  What becomes of the dead donkeys, mules, ponies, and
horses that die during their trafficking is best known to themselves.  No longer since than
last winter I was told by some Gipsies on the outskirts of London that some of their fraternity
had been seen on more than one occasion picking up dead cats out of the streets of London to
take home to their dark-eyed beauties and lovely damsels.  Only a few days since I was told
by a lot of Gipsies upon Cherry Island, and in presence of some of the Lees, that some of their
fraternity, and they mentioned some of their names, had often picked up snails, worms, &c.,
and put them alive into a pan over their coke fires, and as the life was being frizzled out
of the creeping things they picked them out of the pan with their fingers and put them into
their months without any further ceremony.  I cannot for the life of me think that human nature
is at such a low ebb among them as to make this kind of life general.  At most I should think
cases of this kind are exceptional.  Their food, whether it be animal or vegetable, is generally
turned into a kind of dirty-looking, thick liquid, which they think good enough to be called
soup.  Their principal meal is about five o’clock, upon the return of the mother after her
hawking and cadging expeditions. Their bread, as a rule, is either bought, stolen, or begged.
When they bake, which is very seldom, they put their lumps of dough among the red embers of
their coke fires.  Sometimes they will eat like pigs, till they have to loose their garments
for more room, and other times they starve themselves to fiddle-strings.  A few weeks since,
when snow was on the ground, I saw in the outskirts of London eight half-starved, poor, little,
dirty, Gipsy children dining off three potatoes, and drinking the potato water as a relish.
They do not always use knife and fork.  Table, plates, and dishes are not universal among them.
Their whole kitchen and table requirements are an earthen pot, an iron pan, which serves as
a dish, a knife, and a spoon.  When the meal is ready the whole family sit round the pot or
pan, and then “fall to it” with their fingers and teeth, Adam’s knives and forks, and the ground
providing the table and plates. Boiled pork is, as a rule, their universal, every-day, central
pot-boiler, and the longer it is boiled the harder it gets, like the Irishman who boiled his
egg for an hour to get it soft, and then had to give it up as a bad job.  Some of these kind-hearted
folks have, on more than one occasion, given me “a feed” of it.  It is sweet and nice, but
awfully satisfying, and I think two meals would last me for a week very comfortably; all I
should require would be to get a good dinner off their knuckle-bones, roll myself up like a
hedgehog, doze off like Hubert Petalengro into a semi-unconscious state, and I should be all
right for three or four days.  “Beggars must not be choosers.”  They have done what they could
to make me comfortable, and for which I have been very thankful.  I have had many a cup of
tea with them, and hope to do so again.

One writer observes:—“Commend me to Gipsy life and hard living.  Robust exercise, out-door
life, and pleasant companions are sure to beget good dispositions both of body and mind, and
would create a stomach under the very ribs of death capable of digesting a bar of pig-iron.”
Their habits of uncleanliness are most disgusting.  Occasionally you will meet with clean people,
and children with clean, red, chubby faces; but in nine cases out of ten they are of parents
who have had a different bringing up than squatting about in the mud and filth.  One woman
I know at Notting Hill, and who was born in an Oxfordshire village, is at the present time
surrounded with filth of the most sickening kind, which she cannot help, and to her credit
manages to keep her children tolerably clean and nice for a woman of her position.  There is
another at Garrett Lane, Wandsworth; another at Sheepcot Lane, Battersea; two at Upton Park;
one at Cherry Island; two at Hackney Wick, and several others in various parts on the outskirts
of London.  At Hackney Wick I saw twenty tents and vans, connected with which there were forty
men and women and about seventy children of all ages, entirely devoid of all sanitary arrangements.
A gentleman who was building some property in the neighbourhood told me that he had seen grown-up
youths and big girls running about entirely nude in the morning, and squatting about the ground
and leaving their filth behind them more like animals than human beings endowed with souls
and reason.  When I was there it was with some difficulty I could put my foot in a clean place.
The same kind of thing occurs in a more or less degree wherever Gipsies are located, and, sad
to relate, house-dwelling Gipsies are very little better in this respect. Grellmann, speaking
of the German and Hungarian Gipsies many years ago, says:—“We may easily account for the colour
of their skin.  The Laplanders, Samoyeds, as well as the Siberians, have bronze, yellow-coloured
skins, in consequence of living from their childhood in smoke and dirt, as the Gipsies do.
These would long ago have got rid of their swarthy complexions if they had discontinued this
Gipsy manner of living.  Observe only a Gipsy from his birth till he comes to man’s estate,
and one must be convinced that their colour is not so much owing to their descent as to the
nastiness of their bodies.  In summer the child is exposed to the scorching sun, in winter
it is shut up in a smoky hut.  Some mothers smear their children over with black ointment,
and leave them to fry in the sun or near the fire.  They seldom trouble themselves about washing
or other modes of cleaning themselves. Experience also shows us that it is more their manner
of life than descent which has propagated this black colour of the Gipsies from generation
to generation.”  I am told, and I verily believe it, that many of the children are not washed
for years together.  I have seen over and over again dirt peeling off the poor children’s bodies
and faces like a skin, and leaving a kind of white patch behind it, presenting a kind of a
piebald spectacle.  Some of the children never take their clothes off till they drop off in
shreds.  Many of the Gipsies, both old and young, have only one suit of clothes.  English delicacy
of feeling and sentiment for female virtue must stand abashed with horror at this kind of civilisation
in the nineteenth century of Christian England.  I have seen washing done on the Sunday afternoon
among them, and while the clothes have been drying on the line the women and children have
been roasting themselves before the fires in nearly a nude state.  A Sunday or two ago a poor
Gipsy woman was washing her only smoky-looking blanket late in the afternoon, and upon which
she would have to lay that night.  It was a cold, wintry, drizzling afternoon, and how it was
to get dry was a puzzle to me.  A Gipsy woman, named Hearn, said to me a few days ago, in answer
to some conversation relating to their dirty habits; “The reason for the Gipsies not washing
themselves oftener was on account of their catching cold after each time they washed.”  She
“only washed herself once in a fortnight, and she was almost sure to catch cold after it.”
In some things the real old Gipsies are very particular, i.e., they will on no account take
their food out of cups, saucers, or basins, that have been washed in the same pansions in which
their linen has been washed; so sensitive are they on this point that if they found out that
by an accident this custom had been transgressed they would immediately break the vessel to
pieces.  This is a custom picked up by the Gipsies among the Jews in their wandering from India
through the Holy Land.  Another practice they adopt in common with the Jews is, swearing or
taking oaths over their dead relations.  The customs, practices, and words picked up by them
during their wanderings have added to their mystification.  While they will respect certain
delicacy observed among the Jews, they will eat pork, the most detestable of all food in the
eyes of the Israelites, and will even pay a greater price for it than for beef or mutton. 
An Englishwoman, who had married a Gipsy named Smith, told me very recently, in presence of
her mother-in-law and another woman, that she had seen her husband eat a small plate of cooked
snails as a dainty.  While the daughter-in-law was telling me this, the old Gipsy mother-in-law,
with one foot in the grave, not far from Mary’s Place, near the Potteries, Notting Hill, was
trying to make me believe what a choice dish there was in store for me if I would allow her
to cook me a hedgehog.  She said I should “find it nicer than the finest rabbit or pheasant
I had ever tasted.”  The fine, old, Gipsy woman, as regards her appearance, although suffering
from congestion of lungs and inflammation, and expecting every moment to be her last, would
joke and make fun as if nothing was the matter with her.  When I questioned her upon the sin
of lying, she said, “If the dear Lord spares me, I shall tell lies again.  I could not get
on without it; how could I?  I could not sell my things without lies.”  She was rather severe,
and this was a pleasing feature in the old woman’s character, upon a Gipsy who was pretending
to “’ligious,” and yet living upon the money gained by his wife in telling fortunes.  She said,
“If I must be ‘’ligious,’ I would be ‘’ligious.’  You might,” said the old woman, “as well
eat the devil as suck his broth.  Ah! I hate the fellow.” After asking her, and getting her
interpretation of “God bless you” in Romany, which is Mi-Doovel-Parik-tooti—and she was the
only Gipsy round London who could put the words in Romany—and some other conversation accompanied
with “coppers and baccy,” &c., and to which she replied, “Amen!” with as much earnestness as
if she was the greatest saint outside heaven, we parted.

Much has been said and written years ago about the chastity, fidelity, and faithfulness of
the Gipsies towards each other.  This may have been the case, and in a few exceptional cases
it holds good now; but if I am to believe these men themselves they are very isolated indeed,
and what I have said upon this point about the brick-yard employés in my “Cry of the Children
from the Brick-yards of England,” and also those living in canal-boats, in “Our Canal Population,”
holds good, but with ten times more force concerning the Gipsies.  Immorality abounds to a
most alarming degree.  Incest, wantonness, lasciviousness, lechery, whoring, bigamy, and every
other abomination low, degrading, carnal appetites, propensity, and lust originate and encourage
they practise openly, without the least blush; in fact, I question if many of them know what
it is to blush at all.

I have heard a deal of disgusting, filthy language in my time among brick-yard and canal-boat
women, but not a tithe so sickening as among some Gipsy women.  I pitied them, and to look
upon them as charitably as possible I set it down to their extreme ignorance of the language
they used.  A Gipsy at Upton Park last week named D--- gloried to my face in the fact that
he was not married.  This same man has a brother not far from Mitcham Common living with two
sisters in an unlawful state. Abraham Smith, a Gipsy at Upton Park, who is over seventy, and
tells me that he is trying to serve God and get to heaven, mentioned a case to me of a Gipsy
and a woman at Hackney Wick.  The man has several children by a woman now living with another
man, and the woman has several children by another man.

This Gipsy, S---, and his woman S---, turned both lots of their former own children adrift
upon the wide, wide world, uncared for, unprotected, and abandoned, while they are living and
indulging in sin to their hearts’ content, without the least shame and remorse.  Inquire of
whoever I may, and look whichever way Providence directs me among the various phases of Gipsy
life, I find the same black array of facts staring me in the face, the same dolorous issues
everywhere.  The words reason, honour, restraint, and fidelity are words not to be found in
their vocabulary. My later inquiries fully confirm my previous statements as to two-thirds
living as husband and wife being unmarried.  I have not found a Gipsy to contradict this statement.
Abraham Smith fully agrees with it.

The marriage ceremony of the Gipsies is a very off-hand affair.  Formerly there used to be
some kind of ceremony performed by a friend.  Now the ceremony is not performed by any one.
Of course there are a few who get married at the church, which, in ninety-nine cases out of
a hundred, is performed by the clergyman gratuitously.  As soon as a boy has arrived in his
teens he begins to think that something more than eating and drinking is necessary to him,
and as the children of Gipsies are under no kind of parental, moral, or social restraint, a
connection is easily formed with girls of twelve, some of them of close relationship.  After
a few hours, in many cases, of courtship, they go together, and the affair so far is over.
They leave their parents’ tents and set up one for themselves, and for a short time this kind
of life lasts.  In course of time children are born, the only attendant being, in many instances,
another Gipsy woman, or it may be members of their own families see to the poor woman in her
hour of need.  If they have no vessel in which to wash the newly-born child, they dig a hole
in the ground, which is filled with cold water, and the Gipsy babe is washed in it.  This being
over, the poor little thing is wrapped in some old rags.  This was the custom years ago, and
I verily believe the Gipsies have gone backwards instead of forwards in matters of this kind.

The following brief account of a visit—one of many I have made to Gipsy encampments at Hackney
Marshes and other places during the present winter—will give some faint idea of what Gipsy
life is in this country, as seen by me during my interviews with the Gipsies.  The morning
was dark; the snow was falling fast; about six inches of snow and slush were upon the ground—my
object being in this case, as in others, viz., to visit them at inclement seasons of the weather
to find as many of the Gipsies in their tents as possible, and as I closed my door I said,
“Lord, direct me,” and off I started, not knowing which way to go. Ultimately I found my way
to Holborn, and took the ’bus, and, as I thought, to Hackney, which turned out to be “a delusion
and a snare,” for at the terminus I found myself some two and a half miles from the Marshes;
however, I was not going to turn back if the day was against me, and after laying in a stock
of sweets for the Gipsy children, and “baccy” for the old folks, I commenced my squashy tramp
till I arrived at the Marshes; the difficulty here was the road leading to the tents being
covered ankle deep with snow and water, but as my feet were pretty well wet I could be no worse
off if I paddled through it.  Consequently, after these little difficulties were overcome,
I found myself in the midst of about a score of tents and vans of all sizes and descriptions,
connected with which there were not less than thirty-five grown-up Gipsies and about sixty
poor little Gipsies.  The first van I came to was a kind of one-horse cart with a cover over
it; inside was a strong, hulking-looking fellow and a poor, sickly-looking woman with five
children.  The woman had only been confined a few days, and looked more fit for “the box” than
to be washing on such a cold, wintry day.  On a bed—at least, some rags—were three poor little
children, one of whom was sick, which the mother tried to prevent by putting her dirty apron
to the child’s mouth. The large, piercing eyes of this poor, death-looking Gipsy child I shall
never forget; they have looked into my innermost soul scores of times since then, and every
time I think about this sight of misery the sickly child’s eyes seem to cry out, “Help me!
Help me!”  The poor woman said it was the marshes that caused the illness, but my firm opinion
is that it was neither more nor less than starvation.  The poor woman seemed to be given up
to despair.  A few questions put to her in the momentary absence of the man elicited the fact
that she was no Gipsy.  She had been brought up as a Sunday-school scholar and teacher, and
had been beguiled away from her home by this “Gipsy man.”  She said she could tell me a lot
if I would come some other time.  She also said, “Gipsy life as it is at present carried out
ought to be put a stop to, and would be if people knew all.”  With a few coppers given to her
and the children we parted. In another tent on the marshes there was a man, woman, and six
children. The tent was about twelve feet long, six feet six inches wide, and an average height
of about three feet, making a total of about two hundred and thirty-four cubic feet of space
for man, wife, and six children. These were of both sexes, grown-up and in their teens.  Their
bed was straw upon the damp ground, and their sheets, rags.  The man was half-drunk, and the
poor children were running about half-naked and half-starved.  The woman had some Gipsy blood
in her veins, but the man was an Englishman, and had, so he said, been a soldier.  With a few
coppers and sweets among the children, and in the midst of “Good-byes!” and “God bless you’s!”
I left them, promising to pay them another visit. Out of these twenty families only three were
properly married, and only two could read and write, and these were the poor woman who had
been a Sunday-school scholar and the man who had been a soldier, and, strange to say, the children
of these two people could not read a sentence or tell a letter.  No minister ever visited them,
and not one ever attended a place of worship.  In a visit to an encampment in another part
of London I came across a poor Irishwoman, who had been allured away from her respectable home
at the age of sixteen by one of the Gipsy gang.  When I saw her she was sitting crying, with
two half-starved children by her side, who, owing to the coke fire, had bad eyes.  Their home
was an old ragged tent, and their bed, rotten straw.  When I saw them, and it was about one
o’clock, they had not tasted food for twenty-four hours.  I sent for a loaf for them, and they
set to work upon it with as much relish as if they had been gnawing at the leg of a Christmas
fat turkey.  The poor Gipsy woman had been a Sunday-school scholar, and could read and write,
but neither her husband nor children could tell a letter.  Her taking to Gipsy life had broken
her father’s heart.  Her eldest child, a fine little girl of about seven years of age, had
been taken from her by her friends, and was being educated and cared for.  A few weeks since
the little daughter was anxious to see her mother, consequently she was taken to her tent;
but, sad to relate, instead of the daughter going to kiss her mother, as she would expect,
she turned away from her with a shudder and a shriek, and for the whole day the child did nothing
but cry.  It would not touch a morsel of anything.  The only pleasant look that came upon its
countenance was as it was leaving.  As the poor child was leaving the tent she would not kiss
her mother or say the usual “Good-bye” as she went away.  This poor woman, as in the case of
the woman at Hackney, said she could tell me a lot of things, which she would some time, and
said, “Gipsy life ought to be put a stop to, for there was something about it more than people
knew,” and I thoroughly believe what this poor woman says.  It is my firm conviction that there
is much more in connection with Gipsy life than many people imagine, or is dreamt of in their
philosophy.  There is a substratum of iniquity lower than any writers have ever touched.  There
are certain things in connection with their dark lives, hidden and veiled by their slang language,
that may not come out in my day, but most surely daylight will be shed upon them some day.
They will kill and murder each other, fight and quarrel like hyenas, but certain things they
will not divulge, and so long as the well-being of society is not in danger I suppose we have
no right to interfere.  A query arises here.  Their past actions back me up in this theory.
Upon Mitcham Common last week there were nearly two hundred tents and vans.  In one tent, which
may be considered a specimen of many others, there were two men and their wives, and about
twelve children of both sexes and of all ages.  In another tent there were nine children of
both sexes and all ages, some of them men and women, and for the life of me I cannot tell how
they are all packed when they sleep—I suppose like herrings in a box, pell-mell, “all of a
heap.”  One of these Gipsy young women was a model, and has her time pretty much occupied during
the day. I have been among house-dwelling Gipsies in the Midland counties, and have found twelve
to fifteen men, women, and children, squatting about on the floor, which they used as a workshop,
sitting-room, drawing-room, and bed-room; although there was a bed-room up-stairs it was not
often used—so I was told by the landlady.

There is much more sickness among the Gipsies than is generally known, especially among the
children.  They have strong faith in herbs; the principal being chicken-weed, groundsel, elder
leaves, rue, wild sage, love-wort, agrimony, buckbean, wood-betony, and others; these they
boil in a saucepan like they would cabbages, and then drink the decoction. They only go to
the chemist or surgeon at the last extremity.  They are very much like the man who tried by
degrees to train his donkey to live and work without food, and just as he succeeded the poor
Balaam died; and so it is with the poor Gipsy children.  It kills them to break them in to
the hardships of Gipsy life.  Occasionally I have heard of Gipsies who act as human beings
should do with their children.  A well-to-do Gipsy whom I know—one of the Lees, a son of Mrs.
Simpson—has spent over £30 in doctors’ bills this winter for his children’s good.  Not one
Gipsy in a thousand would do likewise.

Gipsies die like other folk, although before doing so they may have lived and quarrelled like
the Kilkenny cats among other Gipsies; but at death these things are all forgotten, and a Gipsy
funeral seems to be the means to revive all the good they knew about the person dead and a
burying of all the bad connected with the dead Gipsy’s life.  I am now referring to a few of
the better class of Gipsies.  Gipsies, as a rule, pay special regard to the wishes of a dying
Gipsy, and will sacrifice almost anything to carry them out.  I attended the funeral of a house-dwelling
Gipsy, Mrs. Roberts, at Notting Hill, a few weeks ago.  The editor and proprietor of the Suburban
Press, refers to this funeral in his edition under date February 28th, as follows:—“On Monday
last a noteworthy event took place in the humble locality of the Potteries, Notting Dale. 
In this district are congregated a miscellaneous population of the poorest order, who get what
living they can out of the brick-fields or adjoining streets and lanes, or by costermongering,
tinkering, &c., &c.  They dwell together in the poorest and most melancholy-looking cottages,
some in sheds and outhouses, or in dilapidated vans, for it is the resort and locale of many
of the Gipsies that wander in the western suburbs.  Yet all these make up a kind of community
and live together as friends and neighbours, and every now and again they show themselves amenable
to good influences, and characters of humble mark and power arise among them.  To those who
sympathise with the poet who sings of the

    “‘Short and simple annals of the poor,’

we scarcely know a region that can be studied to greater advantage.  In the present instance
it was the funeral of an old inhabitant of the Gipsy tribe, one of the oldest, most respected,
and loved of all the nomads, and related in some way to many Gipsy families in London and the
neighbouring counties.  She lived for years a widow, but with five grown-up, strong, and thrifty
children—two sons and three daughters and troops of friends—to cheer her latter days.  The
preliminaries—a service of song conducted by Mr. Adams and his sons—were soon over, and the
coffin being lifted through the window was placed on the strong shoulders which had been appointed
to convey it to Brompton Cemetery, a distance of some three miles.  It was a neat coffin, covered
with black cloth, and when the pall had been thrown over it affectionate hands placed upon
it two or three large handsome wreaths of immortals white as snow, and so the procession moved
off followed by weeping sons, daughters, and friends, and a host of sympathising neighbours,
to the strains of the ‘Dead March in Saul.’  Requiescat in pace.  Among those present at this
interesting ceremony standing next to us, and sharing in part our umbrella, was a gentleman
whose name and vocation we were not aware until afterwards.  We were glad, however, to learn
that we were unwittingly conversing with no other than Mr. George Smith, of Coalville, Leicester,
the philanthropic and well-known promoter of the ‘Brick-maker’s’ and ‘Canal Boatman’s’ Acts,
who has specially devoted himself to the improvement of the social condition of these too-neglected
people.  He is now giving his attention to the case of the Gipsies, and specially to the children,
to whom he is anxious to see extended among other things the provisions of the School Board
Act.  The great and good work of Mr. Smith has already attracted the attention of a number
of charitable Christian people, and it has not been overlooked by Her Majesty the Queen, who,
with her accustomed care and kindness, has expressed her special interest therein.”  She was
a good, Christian woman, and I think I am speaking within bounds when I say that there is not
one in five hundred like she was.  Before she died she wished for two things to be carried
out at her funeral—one was that she should be carried on Gipsies’ shoulders all the way to
Brompton Cemetery, a distance of some miles; and the other was that Mr. Adams, a gentleman
in the neighbourhood, should conduct a service of song just before the funeral cortége left
the humble domicile; both requests were carried out, notwithstanding that it was a pouring
wet day.  The service of song was very impressive, surrounded as we were by some two hundred
Gipsies and others of the lowest of the low, living in one of the darkest places in London.
Some stood with their mouths open and appeared as if they had not heard of the name of Jesus
before, and there were others whose features betokened strong emotion, and upon whose cheeks
could be seen the trickling tears as we sung, among others:—

    “Shall we gather at the river,
    Where bright angels’ feet have trod,
    With its crystal tide for ever
    Flowing by the throne of God?
          Yes, we’ll gather at the river,
          The beautiful, the beautiful river,
          That flows by the throne of God.

    “Soon we’ll reach the silvery river,
    Soon our pilgrimage will cease,
    Soon our happy hearts will quiver,
    With the melody of peace.  Clayton, a Gipsy, at Ashby-de-la-Zouch, told me only the
other day that he knew an old Gipsy woman who was living in the Melton
Mowbray Union Workhouse at the present time, and mentioned some others
who had died in the union, a few connected with his own family.  Abraham
Smith, a respectable and an old Christian Gipsy, mentioned the names of a
dozen or more Gipsies of his acquaintance who had died in the union
workhouse, some in the Biggleswade Union, of the name of Shaw.  There was
a time when there was a little repugnance to the union, but this feeling
has died out, thus adding another proof that the Gipsies, in many
respects, are not so good as what they were fifty years or more ago; and
this fact, to my mind, calls loudly for Government interference as
regards the education of the children.  Abraham Smith also further stated
that nearly all the old people belonging to one family of S--- had died
in the workhouse in Bedfordshire.  Another thing has forced itself upon
my attention, viz., that there seems to be a number of poor unfortunate
idiots among them.  I know, for a fact, of one family where there are two
poor creatures, one of whom is in the asylum, and of another family where
there is one, and a number in various parts where they are semi-idiotic,
and only next door to the asylum.  These painful facts will plainly show
to all Christian-thinking men and women, and to others who love their
country and seeks its welfare, that the time has arrived for the Gipsies
to be taken hold of in a plain, practical, common-sense manner by those
at the helm of affairs, and placed in such a position as to help
themselves to some of the blessings we are in possession of ourselves.
During all my inquiries, when the Gipsies have not fallen in with all I
have said with reference to Gipsy life, they have all agreed without
exception to the plan I have sketched out for the education of their
children and the registration of their tents, &c.

In the days of Hoyland and Borrow the Gipsies were very anxious for the education of their
children and struggled hard themselves to bring it about.  Sixty years ago one of the Lovells
sent three of his children to school, at No. 5, George Street, taught by Partak Ivery, and
paid sixpence per week each with them; but the question of religion came up and the children
were sent home.  The schoolmaster, Ivery, said that he had had six Gipsy children sent to his
school, and when placed among the other children they were reduceable to order.  It is a standing
disgrace and a shame to us as a nation professing Christianity that at this time we had in
our midst ten to fifteen thousand poor little heathen children thirsting for knowledge, and
no one to hand it to them or put them in the way to help themselves.  The sin lays at some
one’s door, and I would not like to be in their shoes for something.  While this dense ignorance
was manifest among the poor Gipsy children at our doors we were scattering the Bibles all over
the world, and sending missionaries by hundreds to foreign lands and supporting them by hundreds
of thousands of pounds gladly subscribed by our hard-working artisans and others.  Not that
I am finding fault with those who take an interest in foreign missions in the least—would to
God that more were done for every nation upon the face of the globe—but I do think in matters
relating to the welfare of the children we ought to look more at home.

With reference to missionary effort among the Gipsies, I must confess that I am not a strong
advocate for a strictly sectarian missionary organisation to be formed with headquarters in
London, and a paid staff of officials, to convert the Gipsies.  If the act is passed upon the
basis I have laid down, the result will be that in course of time the Gipsies will be localised.
I am strongly in favour of all sections of Christ’s Church dealing with our floating population,
whether upon land or water, in their own localities, and in a kind of spirit of holy rivalry
among themselves, if I may use the term.  For the life of me I cannot see why temporary wooden
erections, something of the “penny-gaff” style, should not be erected upon race-courses, and
in the market-places during fair time, in which religious services could be held free from
all sectarian bias, and which could be called the Showman’s or Gipsy’s Church.  There are times
when a short interesting service could be held without coming in collision with the steam whistles
of the “round-abouts,” “big drums,” reports from the “rifle galleries,” the screams and shouts
of stall-keepers; and at any rate, I think it would be better to have a number of organisations
at work rather than one, dealing both with our Gipsies and canal-boatmen.  In whatever form
missionary effort is put forth, it must go further than that of a clergyman, who told me one
Sunday afternoon last year, after he had been preaching in the most fashionable church in Kensington,
to the effect that, if any of the large number of Gipsies who encamped in his parish in the
country, and not far from the vicarage, “raised their hats to him as he passed them, he returned
the compliment.”  Poor stuff this to educate their children and to civilise and Christianise
their parents.

