Imagine 2,000 or 3,000 men surrounding a tract of country six or eight miles in circumference,
each one armed with different combustibles and moving fires; in the midst suppose 300 elephants,
being driven towards the centre by the gradual and regular approach of these fires, till at
last they are confined within a circle of about two miles; they are then driven by the same
means into a space made by the erection of immense logs of ebony and other strong wood, bound
together by cane, and of the shape (in miniature) of the longitudinal section of a funnel,
towards which they rush with the greatest fury, amidst the most horrid yells on the approach
of fire, of which they stand in the greatest dread. When enclosed they become outrageous, and
charge on all sides with great fury, but without any effect on the strong barricado; they at
last gain the narrow path of the enclosure, the extreme end of which is just large enough to
admit one elephant, which is immediately prevented breaking out by strong bars laid across.
To express their passion, their desperation, when thus confined, is impossible; and still more
so, to imagine the facility and admirable contrivance by which they are removed and tamed.
Thus it is:--A tame elephant is placed on each side, to whom the wild one is fastened by ropes;
he is then allowed to pass out, and immediately on his making the least resistance, the tame
ones give him a most tremendous squeeze between their sides, and beat him with their trunks
until he submits; they then lead him to a place ready prepared, to which he is strongly fastened,
and return to perform the same civility to the next one.

In this way seventy wild elephants were captured for the purpose of government labour. The
tame elephants daily take each wild one singly to water and to feed, until they become quite
tame and docile. The remaining elephants were shot by the people.

I took possession of a young one, and have got him now tied up near my door; he is quite reconciled,
and eats with the greatest confidence out of my hand; he is, however, too expensive to keep
long, and I fear I must eventually shoot him. Some idea of the expense may be supposed, when
I tell you that in one article alone, milk, his allowance is two gallons per day.

I was at this scene with thirty other officers and their ladies, and we remained in temporary
huts for nearly ten days.--Asiatic Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRAZILIAN SLAVE TRADE.

From the Memoirs of General Miller, Second Edition.

In Brazil the slave trade is seen in some of its most revolting aspects; for there the general
treatment of negro slaves is barbarous in the extreme. About thirty thousand are annually imported
into Rio Janeiro alone, and perhaps an equal number in the other ports of the empire. One of
the many abhorrent circumstances attending this nefarious traffic is, that, upon a vessel's
arriving near the port, such slaves, as appear to be in an irrecoverable state of disease,
are frequently thrown into the sea! This is done merely to evade the payment of the custom-house
duty, which is levied upon every slave brought into port. Instances have occurred of their
being picked up alive by coasting vessels!

Fourteen or fifteen slave ships, with full cargoes, arrived at Rio Janeiro during the six weeks
that Miller remained there. One morning that he happened to breakfast on board a Brazilian
frigate, the commander, Captain Sheppard, kindly lent him a boat to visit a slaver of 320 tons,
which had come into port the preceding night. The master, supposing him to be in the imperial
service, was extremely attentive, and very readily answered every inquiry. He said the homeward-bound
passage had been tolerably fortunate, only seventy-two deaths having occurred in the cargo;
and that, although thirty of the sick were then in an unsaleable plight, the owners might calculate
upon sending into the market four hundred sound and well-grown Africans; a number that would
yield a handsome profit.

After some further conversation, Miller requested permission to see the 'tween decks, upon
which the muster accompanied him below, and pointed out the manner of securing his cargo, which
was by shackling each negro by one leg to an iron bar running a midships from stem to stern,
so as to form a double row, lying feet to feet. The air was so oppressively nauseating, that
Miller could not remain below for more than two minutes. There was hardly a slave in the whole
number who was free from festering sores, produced by constant friction from lying on the hard
and unwashed decks. Some of them were bruised so dreadfully, that it was wonderful that they
continued to exist. Their emaciated appearance might have led to the supposition that they
had been nearly starved during the passage, did not the varied miseries to which they were
subjected, sufficiently account for their fleshless forms. A great number of them were now
upon deck, and clad in long woollen shirts, in order to be sent to the warehouses on shore.
Miller, heartily sick of this disgusting scene, took leave of the master; but, unable to control
the indignation he felt, he inveighed with great bitterness against all wretches concerned
in so iniquitous a traffic, letting him know at the same time that he was not in the service
of the emperor. The master, though at first taken aback by the violence of the general's invectives,
soon recovered himself, and retorted in the most insolent terms of defiance, abusing the English
for meddling in what he styled the legitimate commerce of Brazil. The state of the vessel was
such as cannot be described, and the fetid effluvia, arising from it, offended the senses on
approaching her within fifty yards. Although Miller took a warm bath immediately upon getting
on shore, the stench of the slave ship haunted his nostrils for many days.

There is a long narrow street in Rio Janeiro exclusively appropriated to the negro stores.
It is, in fact, the slave-bazaar. The fronts of the shops are open, and the objects for sale
are seated on benches, where, strange to say, they often pass their time in singing. People
wishing to become purchasers lounge up and down until they see a subject likely to suit their
purpose. Miller one day put on a broad-brimmed straw hat, and walked into several of the stores,
as if with a view of making a purchase. The slave venders came forward with eagerness to show
off their stock, making their bipeds move about in every way best calculated to display their
good points, and in much the same manner that a jockey does in showing off a horse. Those who
appeared to be drowsy were made to bite a piece of ginger, or take a pinch of snuff. If these
excitements did not prove sufficient to give them an air of briskness, they were wakened up
by a pull of the ear, or a slap on the face, which made them look about them. Miller was so
inquisitive, and his observations were so unlike those of a bona fide purchaser, that the dealers
soon began to suspect he did not intend to be a customer. One of them being in consequence
rather pert in his replies, Miller once more allowed his indignation to get the better of his
judgment, and he abused the fellow in terms more violent, if possible, than those he had addressed
to the master of the slave ship. He had some difficulty to avoid getting into a very serious
squabble, as many of the other dealers came out and joined in the yell now raised against him.
As he passed along the street, it was like running the gauntlet; for he was saluted by vituperations
on all sides, and it was perhaps only by preserving a menacing attitude in his retreat that
he prevented something more than a mere war of words. They dwelt with marked emphasis on the
officious English, who, instead of attending to their own affairs, would not, they said, allow
other people to gain an honest livelihood.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD CHARING CROSS.

This is one of the celebrated memorials of the affection of Edward I. for his beloved Elinor,
being the cross erected on the last spot on which the body rested in the way to Westminster
Abbey, the place of sepulture. This and all the other crosses were built after the designs
of Cavilini; and all of them were destroyed by the zeal of the Reformers.

Our illustration is from an engraving copied from a print found in a mutilated genealogy published
in 1602, relative to the Stuart family, in which were portraits of James I. and family, and
a print of Old St. Paul's. Pennant, speaking of Old Charing Cross, says "from a drawing communicated
to me by Dr. Combe, it was octagonal, and in the upper stage had eight figures; but the Gothic
parts were not rich." The above print differs from this drawing, yet it was evidently intended
to represent the same subject, "Charing Cross" being engraved at the bottom.

The site of the cross is now occupied by the Equestrian Statue of Charles I. in which the figure
and symmetry of the horse are beautifully displayed. Indeed, it is said to be the most finished
piece of workmanship of the kind ever produced: that of Marcus Aurelius, or the two horses
on the Monte Cavallo, or Quirino at Rome not excepted.

       *        *        *        *        *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *        *        *        *        *

ODD MISTAKE.

Judge Hall says, "I once travelled through Illinois when the waters were high; and when I was
told that Little Mary would stop me, and that to get by Big Mary was impossible, I supposed
them to be attractive damsels, who, like beauteous Circe of old, amused themselves with playing
tricks upon travellers. But, lo! instead of blushing, blooming, and melodious maids, I found
torrents cold as ice, and boisterous as furies. Mary is too sweet a name to be thus profaned."

       *       *       *       *       *

FIGHT IN A CHURCH.

Among the ecclesiastical anecdotes of the age of the Commonwealth, is a tradition still current
at Bishop's Middleham, concerning their intrusive vicar, John Brabant. He was a soldier in
Cromwell's army; but preferring the drum ecclesiastic to the drum military, he came with a
file of troops to Middleham, to eject the old vicar. The parishioners made a good fight on
the occasion, and succeeded in winning the pulpit, which was the key of the position, for their
proper minister; but Brabant made a soldierly retreat into the chancel, mounted the altar,
and there preached, standing, with a brace of horse-pistols at his side. Right, however, had
little chance when Might ruled; and the old vicar, who had held the living forty years, was
ejected.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPANISH AND ITALIAN REFUGEES.

A pretty little "Garland of Miscellaneous Poems" has just been published by one of our occasional
correspondents,[1] for the Benefit of the Spanish and Italian Refugees. These poems are gracefully
written, independent of the interest they ought to awaken from the profits of the sale being
appropriated to a benevolent purpose. We subjoin an extract--

    [1] Mr. W.H. Brandreth, author of "Field Flowers," &c.

THE FIELD OF BANNOCKBURN.

  A fearful form from Stirling's tower
    Was dimly seen to bend;
  He look'd as though, 'mid fate's far hour,
    Some mighty woe he kenn'd.
  White was his hair, and thin with age,
    One hand was raised on high,
  The other ope'd the mystic page
    Of human destiny.
  And oft, ere shone the moon's pale ray,
    His eyes were seen to turn
  Where, in the gloomy distance, lay
    The plain of Bannockburn.

