JOHN PIERPONT.

Most men of "fourscore and upwards," like Lear, and who, like Lear, have been "mightily abused"
in their day, are found, upon diligent inquiry, to have long outlived themselves, like the
Archbishop of Granada; but here is a man, or was but the other day, in his eighty-second year,
with the temper and edge and "bright blue rippling glitter" of a Damascus blade up to the very
last; or rather, considering how he was last employed, with the temper of that strange tool,
found among the ruins of Thebes, with which they used to smooth and polish their huge monoliths
of granite, until they murmured a song of joy, whenever the morning sunshine fell upon them.

This remarkable man--remarkable under many aspects--died at Medford, Massachusetts, on Monday
morning, August 27th; and it is now said of heart-disease,--that other name for a mysterious
and sudden death, happen how it may, and when it may. He had been perfectly well the day before,
attended church, and called on some of his neighbors; he retired to rest as usual, and nothing
more was heard of him till Monday morning, when he was found asleep in Jesus, prepared, as
we humbly trust, to hear the greeting of "Well done, thou good and faithful servant!" Says
a friend, in a letter now lying before me, of August 27th: "On Saturday afternoon, day before
yesterday, your friend and my friend, Rev. John Pierpont, called upon me, and we had a very
interesting interview of about an hour. I never saw him look better or appear happier. Although
eighty-one years of age the 6th of last April, he seemed to have the elasticity of youth, and
he was perfectly erect. I gave him what he wanted very much,--a copy of his trial before an
ecclesiastical council in this city, several years ago. He gave me his photograph, and, taking
his gold pen, wrote underneath, in a beautiful hand, 'John Pierpont, aged 81.' He said he was
doing some work at Washington, which he hoped to live long enough to complete.... When I published
my last book, I sent him a copy. He acknowledged the receipt of it in a letter of eight or
ten pages, which is now a treasure to me. His name on the photograph was probably the last
time he ever wrote it,"--another treasure, which my friend would not now be likely to part
with for any consideration.

My acquaintance with Mr. Pierpont began in the fall or winter of 1814, just when the war had
assumed such proportions, that men's hearts were failing them for fear, and prodigies and portents
were of daily occurrence. New England too--finding herself defenceless and left to the mercy
of our foe--began to think, not of setting up for herself, not of withdrawing from the copartnership,
without the consent of the whole sisterhood, but of coming together for conference and proposing
to the general government, not to become neutral after the fashion of Kentucky, in our late
misunderstanding, not of playing the part of umpire between the belligerents, like that heroic
embodiment of Southern chivalry, nor of holding the balance of power, but, on being allowed
her just proportion of the public revenues, to undertake for herself, and agree to give a good
account of the enemy, if he should throw himself upon her bulwarks, whether along the seaboard,
or upon her great northern frontier.

He had just escaped from Newburyport, after writing the "Portrait," a severe and truthful picture
of the times, which went far to give him a national reputation--for the day; and opened a law
office at 103 Court Street, Boston, where he found nothing to do, and spent much of his time
in cutting his name on little ivory seals, and engraving ciphers--"J.P."--so beautiful in their
character, and so graceful, that one I have now before me, an impression taken by him in wax,
with a vermilion bed,--for in all such matters he was very particular,--were enough to establish
any man's reputation as a seal engraver. It bears about the same relationship to what are called
ciphers, that Benvenuto Cellini's flower-cups bore to the clumsy goblets of his day.

He was never a great reader, not being able to read more than fifty pages of law and miscellany
in a day, though he managed, for once, while a tutor in Colonel Alston's family at Charleston,
South Carolina, beginning by daylight and continuing as long as he could see, in midsummer,
to get through with one hundred pages of Blackstone; but the "grind" was too much for him,--he
never tried it again. He read Gibbon, and Chateaubriand's "Genius of Christianity," and St.
Pierre, and Jeremy Bentham's "Theory of Rewards and Punishments," but never to my knowledge
a novel, a romance, or a magazine article, except an occasional review; but Joanna Baillie,--that
female Shakespeare of a later age,--and Beattie, and Campbell, and the British poets, and dramatic
writers, were always at hand, when he had nothing better to do, with no seals to cut, no ciphers,
no razor-strops, no stoves, and no clients. Over that field of enchantment and illusion he
wandered with lifted wings, month after month, and year after year.

At this time he was in his thirtieth year, and I in my twenty-second. No two persons were ever
more unlike; and yet we grew to be intimate friends after a while; and at the time of his death
our friendship had lasted more than fifty years, with a single interruption of a twelvemonth
or so while I was abroad, which was put an end to by our letters of reconciliation crossing
each other almost on the same day.

With a young family on his hands, precarious health and a feeble constitution, as we then believed,
which drove him to Saratoga every two or three years, and no property, what had he to look
forward to, unless he could manage to go through a course of starvation at half-price, or diet
with the chameleons?--though great things were expected of him by those who knew him best,
and the late Mr. Justice Story could not bear to think of his abandoning the profession, so
long as there was a decent chance of living through such a course of preparation.

After all that he has done as a poet, as a preacher, as a reformer, and as a lecturer, I must
say that I think he was made for a lawyer. Vigorous and acute, clear-sighted, self-possessed,
and logical to a fault, if he had not married so early, or if a respectable inheritance had
fallen to him, after he had learned to do without help or patronage, as Dr. Samuel Johnson
did, while undergoing Lord Chesterfield, he might have been at the head of the Massachusetts
bar,--a proud position, to be sure, at any time within the last fifty years,--or, at any rate,
in the foremost rank, long before his death.

He had, withal, a great fondness for mechanics, and one at least of his inventions, the "Pierpont
or Doric Stove," was a bit of concrete philosophy,--a miniature temple glowing with perpetual
fire,--a cast-iron syllogism of itself, so classically just in its proportions, and so eminently
characteristic, as to be a type of the author. He had been led through a long course of experiment
in the structure of grates and stoves, and in the consumption of fuel, with the hope of superseding
Saratoga, for himself at least, by making our terrible winters and our east winds a little
more endurable. No man ever suffered more from what people sometimes call, without meaning
to be naughty, damp cold weather.

In addition to the "Portrait," he had written a New-Year's Address or two, and a fine lyric,
which was said or sung--I forget which--at the celebration of Napoleon's retreat from Moscow;
so that after he went off to Baltimore, and the "Airs of Palestine" appeared in 1816, those
who knew him best, instead of being astonished like the rest of the world, regarded it as nothing
more than the fulfilment of a promise, and went about saying, or looking as if they wanted
to say, "Didn't we tell you so?"

And yet, with the exception of two or three outbreaks and flashes, there was really nothing
in his earlier manifestations to prefigure the "unrolling glory" of the "Airs," or to justify
the extravagant expectations people had entertained from the first, if you would believe them.

Robert Treat Paine having disappeared from the stage, there was nobody left but Lucius Manlius
Sargent and John Pierpont for celebrations and sudden emergencies. But Sargent never tried
the heroic, and was generally satisfied with imitations of Walter Scott, and others, who were
given to oddities and quaintness. For example, "I thought," says he, in the longest poem he
ever wrote, which appeared in quarto,--

    "I thought, than as a feather fair
    More light is filmy gossamer,
    So woman's heart is lighter far
    Than lightest breath of summer air,
    Which is so light it scarce can bear
    The filmiest thread of gossamer," etc., etc., etc.

While Mr. Pierpont flung himself abroad--like Handel, over the great organ-keys at Haarlem--as
if he never knew before what legs and arms were good for, after the following fashion:--

    "The misty hall of Odin
      With mirth and music swells,
    Rings with the harps and songs of bards,
      And echoes to their shells.

    "See how amid the cloud-wrapped ghosts
      Great Peter's awful form
        Seems to smile,
        As the while,
      Amid the howling storm,
    He hears his children shout, Hurrah!
      Amid the howling storm," etc., etc.

Few men ever elaborated as he did,--not even Rousseau, when he wrote over whole pages and chapters
of his "Confessions," I forget how many times. Fine thoughts were never spontaneous with him,
never unexpected, never unwaited for,--never, certainly till long after he had got his growth.
In fact, some of the happiest passages we have seem to be engraved, letter by letter, instead
of being written at once, or launched away into the stillness, like a red-hot thunderbolt.
Well do I remember a little incident which occurred in Baltimore, soon after the failure of
Pierpont and Lord--and Neal, when we were all dying of sheer inaction, and almost ready to
hang ourselves--in a metaphorical sense--as the shortest way of scoring off with the world.

We were at breakfast,--it was rather late.

"Where on earth is your good husband?" said I to Mrs. Pierpont.

"In bed, making poetry," said she.

"Indeed!"

"Yes, flat on his back, with his eyes rolled up in his head."

Soon after, the gentleman himself appeared, looking somewhat the worse for the labor he had
gone through with, and all the happier, that the throes were over, and the offspring ready
for exhibition. "Here," said he, "tell me what you think of these two lines,"--handing me a
paper on which was written, with the clearness and beauty of copperplate,

    "Their reverend beards that sweep their bosoms wet
    With the chill dews of shady Olivet."

"Charming," said I. "And what then? What are you driving at?"

"Well, I was thinking of Olivet, and then I wanted a rhyme for Olivet; and rhymes are the rudders,
you know, according to Hudibras; and then uprose the picture of the Apostles before me,--their
reverend beards all dripping with the dews of night."

How little did he or I then foresee what soon followed,--soon, that is, in comparison with
all he had ever done before! The "Airs of Palestine," like the night-blooming cereus,--the
century-plant,--flowering at last, and all at once and most unexpectedly too, after generations
have waited for it, as for the penumbra of something foretold, until both their patience and
their faith have almost failed. But, from the very first, there were signs of growth not to
be mistaken,--of inward growth, too,--and oftentimes an appearance of slowly gathered strength,
as if it had been long husbanded, and for a great purpose. For example,--

    "There the gaunt wolf sits on his rock and howls,
    And there, in painted pomp, the savage Indian prowls."

What a picture of brooding desolation! How concentrated and how unpretending, in its simplicity
and strength!

And again, having had visions, and having begun to breathe a new atmosphere, with Sinai in
view, he says,

    "There blasts of unseen trumpets, long and loud,
    Swelled by the breath of whirlwinds, rent the cloud,"--

two of the grandest lines to be found anywhere, out of the Hebrew.

About this time it was, just before he went off to Baltimore, that we began to have occasional
glimpses of that inward fire shut up in his bones, that subterranean sunshine, that golden
ore, which, smelted as the constellations were, makes what men have agreed to call poetry,--which,
after all, is but another name for inspiration; although the very first outbreak I remember
happened at the celebration already referred to, where men saw

    "The Desolator desolate, the Victor overthrown,
    The Arbiter of others' fate a suppliant for his own,"

and began to breathe freely once more; and the shout of "Glory, glory! Alleluiah!" went up
like the roar of many waters from all the cities of our land, as if they themselves had been
delivered from the new Sennacherib; yet, after a short season of rest, like one of our Western
prairies after having been over-swept with fire, he began to flower anew, and from his innermost
nature, like some great aboriginal plant of our Northern wilderness suddenly transferred to
a tropical region, roots and all, by some convulsion of nature,--by hurricane, or drift, or
shipwreck. And always thereafter, with a very few brief exceptions, instead of echoing and
re-echoing the musical thunders of a buried past,--instead of imitating, oftentimes unconsciously
(the worst kind of imitation, by the way, for what can be hoped of a man whose individuality
has been tampered with, and whose own perceptions mislead him?)--instead of counterfeiting
the mighty minstrels he had most reverenced, and oftentimes ignorantly worshipped, as among
the unknown gods, in his unquestioning, breathless homage, he began to look upward to the Source
of all inspiration, while

    "Princely visions rare
    Went stepping through the air,"

and to walk abroad with all his "singing robes about him," as he had never done before. Hitherto
it had been otherwise. Campbell had opened the "Pleasures of Hope" with

    "Why to yon mountains turns the musing eye,
    Whose sunbright summits mingle with the sky?"

and therefore Pierpont began his "Portrait" with

    "Why does the eye with greater pleasure rest
    On the proud oak with vernal honors drest?"

But now, instead of diluting Beattie, with all his "pomp of groves and long resounding shore,"
and recasting portions of Akenside or Pope, and rehashing "Ye Mariners of England," for public
celebrations, or converting Moore himself into "Your glass may be purple and mine may be blue,"
while urging the claims of what is called Liberal Christianity in a hymn written for the new
Unitarian church of Baltimore, he would break forth now and then with something which really
seemed unpremeditated,--something he had been surprised into saying in spite of himself, as
where he finishes a picture of Moses on Mount Nebo, after a fashion both startling and effective
in its abruptness, and yet altogether his own:--

    "His sunny mantle and his hoary locks
    Shone like the robe of Winter on the rocks.
    Where is that mantle? Melted into air.
    Where is the Prophet? God can tell thee where."

And yet in the day of his strength he was sometimes capable of strange self-forgetfulness,
and once wrote, in his reverence for the classic, what, if it were not blasphemy, would be
meaningless:--

    "O thou dread Spirit! being's End and Source!
    O check thy chariot in its fervid course;
    Bend from thy throne of darkness and of fire,
    And with one smile immortalize oar lyre!"

Think of a Christian poet apostrophizing the Ancient of Days--Jehovah himself--in the language
of idolatrous and pagan Rome!

At another time,--but these are among the last of his transgressions, and they happened nearly
fifty years before his death,--having in view that epitaph on an infant where a father says
of his child,

              "Like a dewdrop on the early morn
    She sparkled, was exhaled, and went to heaven,"

Mr. Pierpont says of the frozen heart, when religion's "mild and genial ray" falls upon it,
with music,

    "The fire is kindled and the flame is bright;
    And that cold mass, with either power assailed,
    Is warmed, made liquid, and to heaven exhaled."

And this by a man who talks about "the glow-worm burning greenly on the wall," and the "unrolling
glory" of the empyrean, as if he understood what both meant.

Nevertheless, and notwithstanding these aberrations, my friend--the truest friend I ever had
in my life, on some accounts, for he was not afraid to tell me of my faults when he saw them,
and the man after all, to whom I am under greater obligations than to any other, living or
dead, for bringing me acquainted with myself--held on his upward course for the last thirty
years of his life without faltering, and without any visible perturbation, like the planets,
if not like the stars, along their appointed path, never so as to astonish perhaps, but almost
always so as to convince, whatever might be the manner of his approach, and whether in prose
or poetry.

But we are anticipating. At the time of our first acquaintance, he certainly entertained very
different views upon the subjects which have made him so conspicuous within the last twenty-five
years.

Instead of being an Abolitionist, or a Garrisonian, and insisting upon immediate, universal,
and unconditional emancipation, he was a colonizationist, rather tolerant of the evil, as it
existed in the South, and very patient under the wrongs of our black brethren; and so was I.

Instead of being a teetotaler, he was hardly what the temperance men of our day would call
a temperance man; for he had wine upon his table when he gave dinners, and never shrank from
the interchange of courtesies, nor refused a pledge,--though I did, even then. Yet more, as
brandy had been prescribed for Mrs. Pierpont by the family physician, Dr. Randall, her husband
used to take his brandy and water with her sometimes, just before dinner, by way of a "whet."

Again: he had been brought up, like St. Paul, at the very feet of Gamaliel. He was born Orthodox,--he
lived Orthodox,--he sat for years under the preaching of Dr. Lyman Beecher, whom he looked
upon as a "giant among pygmies,"--and well he might, as a metaphysician and as a controversialist,
if not as a theologian,--and was, I have lately been told, a member of Dr. Spring's Orthodox
church at Newburyport, before his removal to Boston. But once there, in that overcharged atmosphere,
he took a pew in the Brattle Street Unitarian church,--without being then a Unitarian, or dreaming
of the great change that was to follow within two or three years,--and was a regular attendant
under the preaching of Mr. Everett up to the last. On his removal to Baltimore, he swung round
again toward Orthodoxy,--that Orthodoxy which has been so wittily defined as my doxy, while
heterodoxy is your doxy,--and sat for three years under the preaching of Dr. Ingals, the highly
gifted gentleman to whom he dedicated his poem--in blank--when it first appeared, being perhaps
a little afraid of committing himself in advance; and then, at the very first gathering of
the Baltimore Unitarians in a large auction-room, which led to the organization of a church
within a few months, the erection of a beautiful building, and to the settlement of our friend,
the late Dr. Jared Sparks, he came out fair and square upon the great question, and led, or
helped lead, the exercises. The result of which was, that in due time, after his failure in
business, he became a student of theology at Cambridge, and within a year was called to the
ministry of reconciliation over Hollis Street Church, as a successor to Mr. Holly, at that
time a most captivating preacher, with a congregation and church eminently fastidious and exacting,
and not easily satisfied; yet Mr. Pierpont labored with them and for them over twenty-five
years, with an earnestness, a comprehensiveness, and a faithfulness, for which some of them
have not forgiven him to this day. He entered upon the ministry there in April, 1819, and resigned
in 1845; when he became the first pastor of a Unitarian church in Troy, remained there four
years, and then took charge of a church in Medford; where he was living when the Rebellion
broke out, and he entered the army as chaplain, under an express stipulation that the regiment
was not to go round Baltimore.

But I am fully justified in saying that, when I first knew him in Boston, he did not know himself.
He had entirely mistaken his vocation, and was about the last man in the world to enter into
trade, though pre-eminently fitted for business, if he had been properly encouraged,--the business
of law certainly, and the business of statesmanship. He saw nothing of what was before him,--nothing
of the field he was to occupy till the Master came,--nothing of the influence, nothing of the
authority, he was to exercise over the minds and hearts of men,--and nothing of that huge oriflamme
which was coming up slowly, to be sure, but certainly, over the distant verge of an ever-widening
horizon. He was utterly discouraged as a lawyer; he knew nothing of business; he had no capital;
and what on earth was he good for? Whither should he go? What undertake?

And yet he bore up manfully through all this discouragement, and no word of complaint or murmuring
ever escaped his lips. On the whole, he was one of the most truly conscientious men I ever
knew,--and why not one of the most truly religious, notwithstanding his obnoxious faith?--so
even-tempered that I never saw him disturbed more than once or twice in all my life, and so
patient under wrong that one could hardly believe in his withering sarcasm, and scorching indignation
when he took the field as a reformer, "in golden panoply complete."

Let me now describe his personal appearance, for the help of those who have only heard of the
man. He was tall, straight, and spare,--six feet, I should say, and rather ungraceful in fact,
though called by the women of his parish, not only the most graceful, but the most finished
of gentlemen. That he was dignified, courteous, and prepossessing, very pleasant in conversation,
a capital story-teller, and a tolerable--no, intolerable--punster, exceedingly impressive both
in the pulpit and elsewhere, when much in earnest, and in after life a great lecturer and platform
speaker, I am ready to acknowledge; but he wanted ease of manner--the readiness and quiet self-possession
of a high-bred man, who cannot be taken by surprise, and is neither afraid of being misunderstood
nor afraid of letting himself down--till after he had passed the age of threescore.

The first impression he made on me was that of a country schoolmaster, or of a professor, on
his good behavior, who had got his notions of the polite world from Chesterfield; though, when
I knew him better, and learned that he had been a tutor in the Alston family of South Carolina,
I detected the original type of his perpendicularity, serious composure, and stateliness,--the
archetype. I was constantly reminded of John C. Calhoun, a fellow-student with him at Yale,
and a man he always mentioned, with a strange mixture of admiration and awe, as if he thought
him an offshoot from the Archfiend himself, "skilled to make the worse appear the better reason."
His tall figure, his erect, positive bearing, and somewhat uncompromising, severe expression
of countenance, when much in earnest, with black, heavy eyebrows, clear blue eyes which passed
for black, and stiff black hair, were all of that Huguenot Southern type, which, like the signs
of the Scotch Covenanter or of the old English Puritan, are as unlikely to die out as the Canada
thistle, where they who sow the wind are content to reap the whirlwind. In their steadfast
pertinacity, whether right or wrong, in their adamantine logic, as unyielding as death, and
calm, serious energy of action, and in a part of their transcendental theories, they were alike;
and alike, too, in their tried honesty. The great Nullifier and the great Reformer were both
Titanic, in the vastness and comprehensiveness of their views, in their unrelenting self-assertion,
in their metaphysics, and in their theories of government. If the dark Southron made open war
upon his country till it grew to be unsafe, the dark Northerner would tear the Constitution
of that country to tatters, and trample it under foot, as he did upon one occasion, without
remorse or compunction, because it was held by others to give property in man, though for himself
he denied that it did so, or that it sanctioned slavery in any shape,--as he did, I say, though
I was not an eyewitness of the outrage, and have only the report from others who were. If it
was only a flourish, like that of Edmund Burke, when he suddenly lugged out the dagger before
the upturned smiling eyes of his patient compeers, and Sheridan--or was it Fox?--begged the
gentleman to tell him where the fork was to be had which belonged to the knife, why, even that
were not only unworthy of the man, but so utterly unlike him, for he never indulged in rhetoric
or rhodomontade or claptrap, that one would be inclined to think he was beside himself, or
had been dining out, like Daniel Webster when he proposed, in the Senate Chamber, to plant
our starry banner on the outermost verge, the Ultima Thule, of our disputed territory, heedless
of consequences. Both Pierpont and Calhoun certainly forgot the injunction to be "temperate
in all things"; and allow me to add, that, in my judgment, it mattered little who was with,
or who against them, after they had once set the lance in rest, with a windmill in view,--they
only spurred the harder for opposition, and lashed out all the more vehemently for being cheered,
even by the lowliest. Encouragement and opposition were alike to both, after the rowels were
set, and their beavers closed.

At the time I speak of, Mr. Pierpont and his brother-in-law, Mr. Joseph L. Lord, kept house
together on a street running down hill back of the State-House,--Hancock Street, if I do not
mistake. They had always two or three boarders, and sometimes more, and among them Erastus
A. Lord, a brother of Joseph, and myself. With these, and with the neighbors,--the whole neighborhood,
I might say, and with all their visiting-list,--our friend Pierpont was an oracle from the
first, and in the church and parish, after he had been set up in the pulpit, an idol. It was
thought presumptuous for anybody to differ with him upon any subject. Whatever he said, or
thought, or did, was never to be questioned,--never! His opinions were maxims, his utterances
apothegms, his lightest word authority. And the worst of it all, and the hardest thing for
me to stomach, was, that in all our controversies, for a long time, if he was not always right,
and I always wrong, I was quite sure to come out second best, in the judgment of his friends
and worshippers, who had no sympathy for anybody who ventured to tilt with their champion.
Nevertheless I persisted, and, not standing much in awe of the pedant and the pedagogue, however
much I admired the logician and the poet or the lawyer, I lost no opportunity of asserting
my independence, and took, I am afraid, a sort of malicious pleasure in showing that I had
views and opinions of my own, and was determined to do my own thinking, come what might. For
a while this operated against me,--if not always with Mr. Pierpont, certainly with all his
immediate personal friends and family; but in time, I believe, he began to like me the better
for my presumption, or foolhardiness, in battling the watch with him, whenever he laid down
a proposition, with a calm, dictatorial air, which did not strike me at first either as clearly
self-evident, or, after a thorough investigation, as indisputably true, so that I do on my
conscience believe that I was fast growing, not only unmanageable, but unbearable.

Mr. Pierpont was no judge of painting, though he relished a good picture, and had no taste
for drawing, or rather no talent for drawing, though he saw readily enough certain errors of
exaggeration that abounded in the engravings of the day; and I well remember his calling my
attention to the preposterously small feet of the female figures for which Messrs. Draper and
Company, the bank-note engravers of that day, were so famous; and yet his handwriting was very
beautiful, and the ciphers I have mentioned were neither more nor less than exquisite drawings.
Nor had he any ear for music, to borrow the language we hear at every turn,--as if all persons
who are not deaf by nature had not ears for music, so far as they can hear at all,--or as if
he who can distinguish voices, or learn a language, so far as to be understood when he talks
it, had not necessarily an ear for music, in other words, an ear for sounds and for the rhythm
of speech; but he was deficient in the organ of tune, phrenologically speaking, though I have
heard him warble a Scotch air on the flute with uncommon sweetness--and feebleness--without
tonguing, and play two or three other tunes, which had been adapted in the choir of his church,
upon glass goblets, partly filled with water and set upon a table before him, as if he enjoyed
every touch and thrill,--his long, thin fingers travelling over the damp edges of the glass,
and bringing forth "Bonnie Doon," or "There's nothing true but Heaven,"--with his cuffs rolled
up as if he were driving a lathe, and turning off some of the little thin boxes and other exquisite
toys, in wood or ivory, which he was addicted to, about fifteen years ago, in what he called
his workshop. Like Johnson, however, and Alexander Pope, who, according to Leigh Hunt,

                "Spoiled the ears of the town
    With his cuckoo-song verses, two up and two down,"

he must have had "time" large; for the music of his rhythm was absolutely faultless,--cloying
indeed, so that he introduced the double rhymes to roughen it, just as he indulged in alliteration,
where the "lordly lion leaves his lonely lair," that he might not be supposed incapable of
running off upon another track, or into another channel.

But I never heard him sing or try to sing, though he had a deep, manly voice, read as very
few are able to read, and his modulation was rich and varied, and very agreeable, both to the
understanding and the ear.

His pronunciation was a marvel for correctness. In all our intercourse I never knew him to
give a word otherwise than "according to Walker," so long as Walker was the standard with him,--or
never but once, when he said cli-mac'ter-ic, instead of cli-mac-ter'ic; and when I remonstrated
with him, he lugged out Webster, whom he adhered to forever after. So exceedingly fastidious
and sensitive was he, about the time he left Baltimore for Cambridge, that in his desire to
give the pure sound of e, as in met, instead of the sound of u, which is so common as to be
almost universal where e is followed by r and another consonant, so that person is pronounced
purson, he gave a sound which most people misunderstood for pairson, and went away and laughed
at, for pedantry and affectation.

So, too, when I first knew him, and for a long time after, he was incapable of making a speech.
Even a few sentences were too much for him; and though he argued at least one case to the court,
while in business at Newburyport, I am persuaded, from what I afterward knew of him, that he
must have done what he did by jerks, or have committed the whole to memory. And this, strange
as it may now appear to those who knew him only as a lecturer and platform-speaker, continued
long after he had entered upon the ministry; but of this more hereafter. Even his prayers were
written out, and learned by heart, years after he took charge of the Hollis Street Church,
though I dare say it was not known by his people. Perhaps, too, I may as well say here, lest
I may forget to say it hereafter, that, at the time I speak of, he was neither a phrenologist,
nor a spiritualist, nor a conscientious believer in witchcraft, or rather in the phenomena
that used to be called witchcraft, in the days of Cotton Mather.

Soon after the beginning of our acquaintance, Mr. Joseph L. Lord, the brother of his first
wife,--and he too has just passed away,--seeing what the prospect was for the brother-in-law
he was so proud of, persuaded him to abandon the law at once, and forever, and go into the
jobbing and retail dry-goods business with him, on the corner of Court and Marlborough, now
Washington Street. He had no capital, to be sure, but then he wrote a beautiful hand, was very
methodical, and had made himself acquainted with bookkeeping, after the Italian method, from
Rees's Cyclopædia. I took the chamber which Mr. Pierpont left, and went into the jobbing business
also, with a capital of between two and three hundred--dollars, and a credit amounting to perhaps
five hundred more, which enterprise terminated after a few months, not in my failure, but in
my taking a trip to New York with a large quantity of smuggled goods, belonging to Messrs.
Pierpont and Lord, where I disposed of them to such advantage, that, on my return, I was persuaded
to go into the retail haberdashery line, at 103 Court Street, next door to Pierpont and Lord,
and just underneath the chamber, not chambers, which I had occupied at first with my wholesale
establishment. I had for a partner, at first, Erastus, a brother of "Joe's," whom I had known
as a bookbinder in Portland two or three years before. He was now manufacturing pocket-books,
and appeared to be doing, not only a large and profitable, but safe business,--selling for
cash, running a horse and gig, and paying the bills of all the "dear five hundred friends"
who rode with him.

Our copartnership did not last long. His brother "Joe," being a shrewd man of business, of
uncommon foresight and comprehensiveness, though rather adventurous, gave me a hint, and soon
provided me with another partner, a graduate of Cambridge, named Fisher, with whom I was associated
a few months longer. Then came the peace of 1815, which threw the whole country into a paroxysm
of joy, unsettling business everywhere, at home and abroad, and setting people together by
the ears upon all the great questions of the day.

And here began the new and very brief career of Mr. Pierpont as a man of business. Wholly unfitted
as he was for even the regular course of trade, he was the last man in the world for the great
emergencies of the hour. The whole business of the country was little better than gambling.
Our largest importing houses were lotteries or faro-banks; and we had no manufactures worth
mentioning. We made no woollen goods, and our few cottons, if sold at all, were sold for British,
and stood no chance with the trash that came from beyond the Cape of Good Hope, "warped with
hoop-poles, and filled with oven-wood." Our foreign merchandise came tumbling down so fast,
that no prospective calculations could be made upon their value. Not having manufactured ourselves,
we knew nothing about the cost of production, and had no idea how much our friends over sea
could afford to fall, even from the lowest prices ever heard of. British calicoes, or prints,
for example, which I sold by the case for eighty-five cents cash, at auction, were in every
way inferior to our own, which were retailed before the Rebellion broke out for ten cents a
yard. In fact, if we had known the real cost of production, it would have made but little difference;
for long after all our foreign merchandise had fallen from thirty-three and a third to fifty
per cent, some of our shrewdest calculators were utterly ruined by purchasing at much lower
prices, on what they believed to be a rising market.

Under such circumstances, what was a poet, a scholar, and a lawyer, without any knowledge of
business, to do? Pierpont and Lord were large dealers, and had a heavy stock on hand, not paid
for. Their notes were maturing with frightful rapidity, and Mr. Lord wanted all his available
funds for "transactions" in gold, and other perilous "operations" along the Canada frontier.
Specie was twenty-five per cent above par, or rather banknotes, everywhere but in a part of
New England, where they continued to pay specie to the last, were at twenty-five per cent discount;
and "Boston money," upon the average, about one per cent above gold and silver, so as to cover
the cost and risk of transportation.

But something had to be done. A consultation was held between the members of "our house," and
it was finally arranged that Mr. Pierpont, as the man we could best spare from the salesroom
and the shop, and the partner who would best represent what was called, with singular propriety,
"our concern," should go to Baltimore with the best of letters, and open a way for me in that
city, which I had visited once, and once only, for the purpose of buying exchange on England,--though
for a time it was thought I had run away with all the funds intrusted to me. I had taken a
prodigious liking to Baltimore from the first, though I had no idea of going there to live,
and was not easily persuaded to give up my little establishment in Boston. I was doing very
well, and did not care to do better, till business got settled; but we were three, and I was
always in the minority,--Mr. Lord being a shrewd "operator," and Mr. Pierpont, of course, deferring
to him. They were my partners, to be sure; but I never had anything to do with their business,
apart from my own.

Nevertheless, when Mr. Pierpont returned, and gave an account of his doings there, and of the
opening there was for just such a man as I had proved myself to be, I consented to pull up
stakes, and transplant myself to that beautiful city.

I went with no large expectations, intending to open a retail shop, such as I had left; but
within a week, finding that I could sell even my cut goods for prices much beyond what I had
been retailing them for over and above the exchange, I went into the wholesale business, and
with one clerk, Mr. Jenkins Howland, greatly distinguished in after life as a man of enterprise
at Charleston, S.C., sold more goods, and for cash too, than perhaps any three or four of what
were called the large dealers about me, with two or three clerks apiece, and at prices which
fairly took away my breath at first;--Irish linens, for example, by the case at two dollars
and fifty cents all round, worth not over eighty cents before the war; and assorted broadcloths
by the bale at fourteen dollars a yard all round, which, within a twelvemonth, would have hung
fire at three dollars and fifty cents. And this, it will be remembered, was after goods had
been falling--falling--falling--for six months.

No wonder people's heads were turned--those of Pierpont and Lord among the rest. We, who had
large stocks on hand, were growing rich too fast. I remember selling fourteen thousand dollars'
worth of goods one day for a clear profit of more than forty per cent, and this while my poor
friends at Boston were gasping for breath in that exhausted receiver; but they were kept alive
by the remittances I made from Baltimore, which not only furnished them with funds for immediate
use, but gave them for a few months almost unbounded credit.

This was in the fall and winter of 1815, only a few months after the Bramble arrived with the
news from Ghent that our last negotiations had been successful, and that the war was over most
gloriously for us, the United States. We were almost ready, in our thankfulness and joy, to
canonize the ship and crew, and cut her up into snuffboxes and toothpicks.

And now--what next? "as the tadpole said, when he his tail dropped off." Weary of the growing
distrust they saw, after my remittances began to fall off, and heartily sick of the Gerrymandering
about them, of the usurers and money-changers and Shylocks, who were bleeding them to death,
by lending them money upon pledges of merchandise, the two elder partners, Pierpont and Lord,
lost no time in following their junior. He had opened on South Calvert Street; they took the
whole of a large building opposite, opened below their wholesale business, and after a few
months went to housekeeping overhead, both families living together. Then, to get rid of our
stock, Mr. Pierpont went off to Charleston, S.C., where he had served his time as a tutor,
and there set up a retail establishment, under the charge of a former clerk in their service,
and of another man, a heartless vagabond, whom they had happened to get acquainted with at
a boarding-house on their first arrival, and took a fancy to, nobody ever knew why. He was
an Englishman, had probably been upon the stage, and lived from hand to mouth, nobody knew
how, until we took him up, and he took us in most pitiably.

After a brief struggle, and the establishment of another retail store in Calvert Street, which
I took charge of, with what there was left of the Charleston adventure, we failed outright,
and all this within six or eight months after we had called our creditors together and obtained
an extension of twelve months and testimonials in our favor of the most gratifying character,
and within little more than a year after leaving Boston.

And then, for want of anything better to do, I began writing for the papers, for the "Portico,"
and at last for the public, as an editor and as an author, mainly at the instigation of Mr.
Pierpont, for whom I wrote both "Niagara"[1] and "Guldau," and a part of "Allen's" American
Revolution, studying law, and languages by the half-dozen at the same time, and laboring upon
the average about sixteen hours a day, while Mr. Pierpont struck out boldly for a far-off perilous
and rocky shore, with a lighthouse, in the shape of a pulpit, before him, and achieved the
"Airs of Palestine" while undergoing the process of regeneration, and starving by inches upon
what there were left of his wife's teaspoons, which were sold one by one to pay the rent of
a cheap room in Howard Street. So poor indeed were we at one time, that we could hardly muster
enough between us to pay our bootblack.

I have already said that Mr. Pierpont had no aptitude for extemporaneous speaking; and what
was even worse, he had no hope of being able to overcome the difficulty. Once, and once only,
did I ever hear him try his hand in that way, until many years after he had entered upon the
ministry. A club had been organized among us for literary purposes. We were both members, and
he the Vice-President. We called ourselves the Delphians, and passed among our contemporaries
for the male Muses, our number being limited to nine,--not seven, as I see it stated in the
Boston Advertiser, on the authority of our friend Paul Allen. The rest of the story is near
enough to the truth, although the verses therein mentioned were written by Mr. Pierpont as
a volunteer offering, after the Della-Cruscan school, or manner of "Laura Matilda," and not
upon the spur of the occasion, as there related, nor as a trial of wit; and the last line should
be, "Pulls where'er the zephyr roves"--not, as given there, "Pulls where'er the zephyr moves."

It was in this club that Mr. Pierpont first tried himself--and the brethren--with extemporaneous
speaking. It was a pitiable failure, worse if possible than my own, and I never made another
attempt. Even General Winder, who was a fine advocate, and a capital speaker before a jury,
boggled wretchedly before the club, and our President, Watkins, who was said to be exceedingly
eloquent before the great Masonic lodges, where he occupied the highest position, could not
be persuaded to open his mouth, and all the rest of the brethren were mutes. True, it was like
apostrophizing your own grandmother, in the hope of raising a laugh or of bringing tears into
her eyes, to make speeches at one another across the table, whatever Molière might be able
to do, when alone with his aged servant. Nor did it much help the matter, when, with a view
to the treasury, which began to threaten a collapse, we made a law, like that of the Medes
and Persians which altereth not, whereby it was provided, among other things, that no member
should ever talk over five minutes, nor stop short of three, under any circumstances,--the
President being timekeeper, and the sufferer not being allowed to look at a watch. Fines of
course were inevitable, and we were once more able to luxuriate on bread and cheese, with an
occasional pot of beer,--nothing better or stronger being tolerated among us under any pretence,
except on our anniversaries, when the President, or sometimes a member, stood treat, and gave
us a comfortable, though not often a costly or showy supper.

Among that strange, whimsical brotherhood--consisting of Dr. Tobias Watkins, editor of the
"Portico"; General Winder (William H.), who had been "captivated" by the British, along with
General Chandler, at the first invasion of Canada; William Gwin, editor of the "Federal Gazette";
Paul Allen, editor of the "Federal Republican," and of Lewis and Clarke's "Tour," and author
of "Noah"; Dr. Readel, "a fellow of infinite jest"; Brackenridge, author of "Views in Louisiana,"
and "History of the War"; Dennison, an Englishman, who wrote clever doggerel; and, at different
times, two or three more, not worth mentioning, even if I remembered their names--we passed
every Saturday evening, after the club was established, until it was broken up by President
Watkins's going to Washington, Vice-President Pierpont to the Divinity School at Cambridge,
and Jehu O'Cataract abroad. All the members bore "clubicular" names, by which they were always
to be addressed or spoken to, under another penalty; and most of them held "clubicular" offices
and professorships,--Dr. Readel being Professor of Crambography, and somebody else--Gwin perhaps--Professor
of Impromptology. The name given to Mr. Pierpont was Hiero Heptaglott, under an idea that he
was a prodigious linguist,--another Sir William Jones, at least, if not another Learned Blacksmith;
and the President himself went so far as to say so in the "Portico," where he pretended to
give an account of the Delphians. Nothing could well be further from the truth, however; for,
instead of being a great Hebrew scholar, and learned in the Chaldee, Coptic, and other Eastern
languages, he knew very little of Hebrew, and absolutely nothing of the rest. With "a little
Latin and less Greek," he was a pretty fair Latin and Greek scholar in the judgment of those
who are satisfied with what we are doing in our colleges; and he was sufficiently acquainted
with French to enjoy Chateaubriand, St. Pierre, Rousseau, and Lamartine, and to write the language
with correctness, though not idiomatically; but he was never able to make himself understood
in conversation, beyond a few phrases, uttered with a deplorable accent,--not being able to
carry the flavor in his mouth,--and, though free and sprightly enough in talking English, having
no idea of what passes for freedom and sprightliness with the French. He knew nothing of Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, German, or Dutch, nor indeed of any other modern language.

And now let me say how he came to be an extemporaneous speaker, and sometimes not only logical
and convincing, but truly eloquent. On my return from abroad, in 1826, I passed through Boston,
on my way to Portland, for a visit to my family, and was taken possession of by him, and went
to Hollis Street Church, where I heard my friend, for the second time, in the pulpit. He was
exceedingly impressive, and the sermon itself was one of the best I ever heard,--calm, serious,
and satisfying; not encumbered with illustration, but full of significance. Although the discourse
was carefully written out, word for word, and almost committed to memory, yet he ventured to
introduce a paragraph--one paragraph only--which had not been prepared beforehand. My eyes
were upon him, and he told me at dinner that he saw by my look how well I understood his departure,
and how soon I detected it. "And now," said he, "I hope you are satisfied. You see now that
I shall never be able to extemporize. I put that paragraph into my sermon this morning to see
how you would take it, after having urged me, year after year, to extemporize at least occasionally.
No, no, John; though writing two sermons a week is no trifling labor, I must continue writing
to the end; for, if I cannot extemporize a single paragraph, how can I hope to extemporize
a whole sermon?"

"Suffer me to say that I think you misunderstand the whole question," said I. "The difficulty
is in beginning. After you are well under way, if you can talk sitting, you may talk standing.
Better take with you into the pulpit the merest outline of the discourse, and then trust to
the inspiration of the subject, or to the feeling of the hour, when you have the audience before
you, and can look into their eyes, than to have a discourse partly written, with blanks to
be filled up as you go along; for then you are always beginning afresh, and by the time you
have got easy in your spontaneous effort, you are obliged to go back to what you have written,
and of course can never get warmed up with your subject, nor try any new adaptations, whatever
may be the character of your hearers."

He shook his head. "No, no," said he, "you will never be able to persuade me that it is easier
to say over the whole alphabet than to say only a part."

I persisted, urging the great advantage of spontaneous adaptation to the people. He agreed
with me altogether, provided it were possible for him to do it, which he denied, though he
promised to take the subject into serious consideration once more, to oblige me.

From Boston I went to Portland, where I had a similar talk with that most amiable and excellent
man, the late Dr. Nichols, who labored under a similar disqualification, owing to a similar
misapprehension of what was required for extemporaneous speaking, either on the platform or
in the pulpit. I told him the story, and urged the same considerations; but he, like Mr. Pierpont,
only smiled,--compassionately, as I thought, and rather as if he pitied the delusion I was
laboring under. Yet within two years both of these remarkable men became free and natural spontaneous
speakers, and both acknowledged to me that they had always misunderstood the difficulty. Dr.
Nichols began afar off, as I suggested, in the Sabbath school; and Mr. Pierpont, after making
two or three attempts in a small way, which were anything but satisfactory to himself,--as
I told him they would be for a while, if he had the true stuff in him,--was at last surprised
into doing what he believed to be impossible, by the merest accident in the world; after which
he had no further trouble. It seems that he had engaged to supply a neighboring pulpit,--perhaps
that of his son John, who was newly settled at Lynn. He thought he had his sermon in his pocket;
but, on entering the pulpit, found that he had either left it at home or lost it on the way.
What was to be done? Luckily, he had just read it over the night before, and was full of the
subject therein treated. Remembering what I said, as he told me himself, he determined to go
to work, hit or miss, and either make a spoon or spoil a horn.

The result was, that, after a little hesitation and floundering, he got fairly in earnest,
and threw off a discourse which so delighted those who were best acquainted with him, that
they stopped round the door to shake hands and congratulate him. He had never preached so well
in all his life, they said. This settled the question forever; and from that day forward he
began to believe that anybody who can talk in his chair can talk standing up, after he has
got over his first impressions, and all the better for having a large auditory, with upturned
faces, before him; so that he became at last, and within a few years, one of the finest pulpit
orators of the day, and one of the best platform speakers, though not, perhaps, what the multitude
consider eloquent; for, at the best, he was only argumentative and earnest and clear and convincing,
in his highest manifestations.

Of his career after this, I cannot say anything as I wish, without the risk of saying too much.
He had one of the wealthiest and most liberal congregations of New England. He was their idol.
He was in every way most agreeably situated, with a large family flowering into usefulness
about him, and hosts of friends, enthusiastic and devoted. Nevertheless, believing that, as
a servant of God, he had no right to preach smooth things where rough things were needed, and
that acknowledging other people's transgressions would not satisfy the law, he came out boldly,
with helm and spear, against two of the worst forms of human slavery,--the slavery of the body
and the slavery of the soul, the slavery of the wine-cup, and the slavery of bondage to a master.
Whether his beloved people would hear or whether they would forbear, being all the more beloved
because of their danger, he must preach what he believed to be the truth, and the whole truth.
It was like a fire shut up in his bones. He persisted, and they remonstrated, or rather a part
of them did so; and the result was a speedy and hopeless alienation, followed by years of strife
and bitter controversy at law, and a final separation; though by far the larger part of the
church and congregation, if I do not mistake, upheld him to the last, and adhered to him through
good report and through evil report,--Deacon Samuel May, a host in himself, being of their number.

During this protracted and sorrowful controversy, he became a phrenologist,--a believer in
phrenology,--at any rate, following the lead of Spurzheim; and after many years, a Spiritualist,--in
which faith he died,--one of his last, if not the very last, of his appearances before the
public being as President of a convention held by the leading Spiritualists of the land at
Philadelphia.

He could not be a materialist; and having faith in the evidence of his own senses, and being
as truly conscientious a man as ever breathed, and accustomed to the closest reasoning, what
was he to do? There were the facts. They were not to be controverted; they could not be explained;
they could not be reconciled to any hypothesis in physics. If he was given over to delusion,
to be buffeted by Satan, whose fault was it? That he was by nature somewhat credulous, and,
though patient enough in his investigations, rather too fond of the marvellous, may be acknowledged;
but what then? His conclusions might be wrong, his inferences faulty, though honest; but how
were they to be counteracted? That he sometimes took too much for granted, I believe, nay,
more, I know; because I myself have seen him grossly imposed on by a woman he took me to see,
whose impersonations were thought most wonderful. But then he was a devout man, a close observer,
an admirable logician, accustomed to the "competition of opposite analogies" and to weighing
evidence; and if he misunderstood the facts, or misinterpreted them, or inferred the supernatural
from false premises, why then let us grieve for his delusion, and wait patiently for the phenomena
which led him astray to be explained.

He went abroad for a time, while pastor of the Hollis Street Church, and visited the Holy Land,
in devout pilgrimage; and though he lost his first wife, the mother of all his children, and
a most worthy gentlewoman, but the other day, and married another superior woman after a brief
widowhood, his last days have been, I should say, most emphatically his best days; for he has
lectured through the length and breadth of the land on Temperance, and, after enduring all
sorts of persecution as one of the anti-slavery leaders, he lived to see the whole system against
which they had been warring so long, and with so little apparent effect, utterly overthrown
throughout the land, and the great God of heaven and earth acknowledged as the God of the black
man. Thousands and thousands of miles he travelled, not only after having passed the meridian
of his life, but after he had reached the allotted term, when life begins to be a heaviness
for most, as a laborer in the cause of truth,--often of unacknowledged truth; and if mistaken,
as a theologian, or as a Spiritualist, or as a man,--being what he was,--let us remember that
he was never false to his convictions, never a hypocrite nor a deceiver, and that he died with
his harness on, having been occupied for the last five years of his life in digesting the treasury
decisions, often contradictory, and always inaccessible, for there was no index, until he took
them in hand, going back thirty years, I believe, and reducing the whole to a system which
need be no longer unintelligible to the Department.

One word more. Among the scores of letters I had from him in the day of his bitterest trials
and sorest temptations, there was one which he sent off in the midst of his first great triumph,--with
no date now, although I find a mark upon it which leads me to suppose it was written November
16, 1818, and from which I must venture to take a single paragraph.

"My God!" he says,--"my God! I do most devoutly thank Thee. My prayer has reached Thee, and
been accepted. My dear friend, join with me in thanking Him in whom I put my trust,--to whom
alone I look, or to whom I have looked, for a smile. He has blessed me. I have been heard by
man, and have not been forsaken by God. Though I have not done perfectly, I have done as well
as I could rationally wish, and better than my most sanguine hopes. At Brattle Square this
morning, and at the New South (late Mr. Thacher's) this afternoon. Lord! now let thy servant
depart in peace; for thou hast lifted the cloud under which he has so long moved, and he may
now die in thy light."

Can such a temper as this be misunderstood? Was he not a man fearing God in 1818,--forty-eight
years ago?--or, rather, loving God with that perfect love which casteth out all fear?

But we need not stop here. After he had become a Spiritualist, that is, on the 5th of April,
1862, the evening before his seventy-seventh birthday, he wrote a poem of one hundred and sixty
lines, entitled "Meditations of a Birthday Eve," a copy of which he sent me on the 10th of
November following, upon the express condition that nobody but myself was to see it, until
it should be all over with him. It must have been written without labor, as one would breathe
a prayer upon a death-bed. The following extracts--I wish we had room for more--will show what
were his feelings and what his aspirations at this time.

    "Spirit, my spirit, hath each stage
       That brought thee up from youth
     To thy now venerable age
       Seen thee in search of Truth?

    "Hast thou in search of Truth been true,--
       True to thyself and her,--
     And been with many or with few
       Her honest worshipper?

           *       *       *       *       *

    "Spirit, thy race is nearly run;
       Say, hast thou run it well?
     Thy work on earth is almost done;
       How done, no man can tell.

    "Spirit, toil on! thy house, that stands
       Seventy years old and seven,
     Will fall; but one 'not made with hands'
       Awaiteth thee in heaven.

    "WASHINGTON, D.C., 5 April, 1862."

With the foregoing came another poem, "In Commemoration of a Silver Wedding," October 2, 1863,
full of tenderness and pleasantry,--the wedding of Mr. and Mrs. J. Pierpont Lord.

And on his eighty-first birthday, called by a strange mistake his eightieth, there was another
celebration, yet more solemn and affecting, where the greetings and congratulations of his
brother-poets, all over the land, were sent to him and published in the newspapers of the day.

Among his later poems, the "E Pluribus Unum" appears to me most worthy of his reputation, and
least like the doings of his early manhood.

And now, though we had little reason to look for the prolongation of such a life;--a continued
miracle from the age of thirty or thirty-five, after which he built himself up anew, by living
as well in cold water as in hot, and luxuriating in cold baths, and working hard,--harder,
perhaps, on the whole, at downright drudgery, than any other man of his age, like Rousseau
in copying music, as a relief from writing poetry,--yet when death happens we are all taken
by surprise, just as if we thought God had overlooked his aged servant, or made him an exception
to the great, inflexible law of our being; or as if a whisper had reached us, saying, "If I
will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?"

But enough; a volume of such memoranda would be far short of what such a man deserves when
he is finally translated. Faithful among the faithless, may we not hope that his grandeur and
strength of purpose, and downright, fearless honesty, will have their appropriate reward, both
here and hereafter?

FOOTNOTES:

[1] And here I may as well mention a curious incident. When I wrote my poem, I had never seen
Niagara; but we agreed to go together on a pilgrimage at our earliest convenience. One thing
and another happened, until I had been abroad and returned, without our seeing it together.
At last, being about to go to the South of Europe, I made a new arrangement with him; but just
as we--my wife and I--were ready to go, he was called away to consecrate some church in the
West, and we started on a journey of two thousand miles through portions of our country I had
never seen, and was ashamed to go abroad again without seeing. On my way back we stopped in
Buffalo, and as I stood in the piazza I saw a little card on one of the pillars saying that
the Rev. Mr. Pierpont would preach in the evening somewhere. I found him, and we went together
at last, and saw Niagara together, as we had agreed to do forty years before. And that night
the heavens rained fire upon us, and the great November star-shooting occurred, and our landlord,
being no poet, was unwilling to disturb us, so that we missed the show altogether.

       *       *       *       *       *

BORNEO AND RAJAH BROOKE.

Off the southeastern extremity of Asia, and separated from it by the Chinese Sea, lies a cluster
of great islands, comprising that portion of Oceanica commonly called Malaysia. Of these islands
Borneo is the most extensive, and, if you call Australia a continent, it is by far the largest
island in the world. Situated on the equator, stretching from 7° of north to 4° of south latitude,
and from 108° to 119° of east longitude, its extreme length is 800 miles, its breadth 700,
and it contains 320,000 square miles,--an area seven times as great as that of the populous
State of New York.

But though its size and importance are so great, though it was discovered by the Portuguese
as early as 1518, though several European nations have at various times had settlements on
its coasts, though it is rich in all the products of a tropical clime, and in base and precious
metals, diamonds and stones, and though its climate, contrary to what might have been expected,
is in many localities salubrious even to an American or European constitution, yet until recently
almost nothing was known by the world of its surface, its products, or its inhabitants.

The causes of this ignorance are obvious. The very shape of Borneo is unfavorable to discovery.
A lumpish mass, like Africa and Australia, the ocean has nowhere pierced it with those deep
bays and gulfs in which commerce delights to find a shelter and a home. And though it has navigable
rivers, their course is through the almost impenetrable verdure of the tropics, and they reach
the sea amid unwholesome jungles. The coast, moreover, is in most places marshy and unhealthy,
for the distance of twenty or thirty miles inland; while the interior is filled with vast forests
and great mountain ranges, almost trackless to any but native feet. Besides, the absence of
all just and stable government has reduced society to a state of chaos. And to all this must
be added piracy, from time immemorial sweeping the sea and ravaging the land. Under such circumstances,
if there were little opportunity for commerce, there was none for scientific investigations;
and only by the enterprises of commerce or the researches of science do we know of new and
distant countries.

Many races inhabit Borneo; but the Malays and Sea and Land Dyaks greatly preponderate. The
Malays, who came from continental Asia, are the conquering and governing race. In their native
condition they are indolent, treacherous, and given to piracy. The very name Malay has come
to stand for cruelty and revenge. But well governed, they prove to be much like other people,
susceptible to kindness, capable of affection, amiable, fond to excess of their children, and
courteous to strangers. The Sea Dyaks are piratical tribes, dwelling on the coasts or borders
of rivers, and subsisting by rapine and violence. The Land Dyaks are the descendants of the
primitive inhabitants. They are a mild, industrious race, and remarkably honest. One hideous
custom, that of preserving the heads of their fallen enemies as ghastly tokens of victory,
has invested the name of Dyak with a reputation of cruelty which is not deserved. This singular
practice, originating, it is said, in a superstitious desire to propitiate the Evil Spirit
by bloody offerings, has in process of time become connected with all their ideas of manly
prowess. The young girl receives with proud satisfaction from her lover the gift of a gory
head, as the noblest proof both of his affection and his heroism. This custom is woven, too,
into the early traditions of the race. The Sakarrans tell us that their first mother, who dwells
now in heaven near the evening star, asked of her wooer a worthy gift; and that when he presented
her a deer she rejected it with contempt; when he offered her a mias, the great orang-outang
of Borneo, she turned her back upon it; but when in desperation he went out and slew a man,
brought back his head, and threw it at her feet, she smiled upon him, and said that was indeed
a gift worthy of her. This legend shows, at any rate, how fixed is this habit, not alone in
the passions of the people, but also in their traditional regard. Yet, strange as it may seem,
they are an attractive race. A missionary's wife who has known them well declares that they
are gentle and kindly, simple as children, disposed to love and reverence all who are wiser
and more civilized than themselves. Ida Pfeiffer concludes that the Dyaks pleased her best,
not only among the races of Borneo, but among all the races of the earth with which she has
come in contact. And a cultivated Englishman, with wealth and social position at command, has
been so attracted to them, that he has lavished both his fortune and his best years in the
work of their elevation. The social condition of the Dyaks has been sufficiently wretched.
Subjected to the Malays, they have been forced to work in the mines without pay, while they
were liable at any moment to be robbed of their homes, and even of their wives and children.
"We do not live like men," said one of them, with great pathos. "We are like monkeys, hunted
from place to place. We have no houses, and we dare not light a fire lest the smoke draw our
enemies upon us."

Running along the whole northern coast of Borneo, eight hundred miles, and inland perhaps two
hundred, is found Borneo Proper, one of the three great Mohammedan kingdoms into which the
island was divided as early as the sixteenth century. This state is governed, or rather misgoverned,
by a sultan, and, under him, by rajahs and pangerans,--officials who give to the commands of
their nominal superior but a scanty obedience. For two centuries Borneo Proper has been steadily
settling into anarchy and barbarism. With a government both feeble and despotic, it was torn
by intestine wars, crushed within by oppression and ravaged without by piracy, until commerce
and agriculture, the twin pillars of the state, were equally threatened, and not one element
of ruin seemed to be wanting. What evidence of decay could be more striking than the simple
fact that Bruni, its capital, which in the sixteenth century was crowded with a population
of more than two hundred thousand souls, had in 1840 scarcely fourteen thousand inhabitants?

       *       *       *       *       *

To one corner of this wasting empire came, twenty-five years ago, a young Englishman. Simply
a gentleman, he had no governmental alliances to help him, and no advantages of any sort for
founding empire, except such as sprang from the possession of a sagacious mind, an undaunted
temper, and a heart thoroughly in sympathy with the oppressed. Alone he has built up a flourishing
state, introducing commercial activity and the habits of civilized life where only oppression
and misery were, and has achieved an enterprise which seems to belong rather to the days of
chivalry than to a plodding, utilitarian age,--an enterprise which, in romance and success,
but not in carnage, calls to mind the deeds of the great Spanish captains in the New World.

James Brooke, the second and only surviving son of Thomas Brooke, a gentleman who had acquired
a fortune in the service of the East India Company, was born in India, April 29, 1803. At an
early age he entered the employ of the same company to whose interests his father had given
his best days. In 1826, as a cadet, he accompanied the British army to the Burmese war, was
dangerously wounded, received a furlough, and came to England. To restore his health and gratify
his curiosity he spent the year 1827 in travelling on the Continent. His furlough having nearly
expired, he embarked for India, but was wrecked on the voyage, and could not report for duty
in proper season. This was one of those apparently fortuitous circumstances which so often
change the whole aspect of a man's life. At any rate, it was the turning-point in Mr. Brooke's
career. Finding that his misfortune had cost him his position, and that he could not recover
it without tedious formalities, he left the service. Uncontrolled master of himself, and endowed
with sagacity and courage of no ordinary stamp, he was ready for any undertaking which his
adventurous spirit or his love of research might dictate. In fact, it was during this interval
of leisure that he embarked for China, and on his passage saw for the first time the Eastern
Archipelago. He was painfully interested in the condition of Borneo and Celebes, those great
islands, sinking apparently into hopeless decay. His sympathies were awakened by the sufferings
of the helpless natives, and his indignation was aroused by the outrages of an unbridled piracy.
His feelings can be best gathered from his own language. "These unhappy countries afford a
striking proof how the fairest and richest lands under the sun may become degraded by a continuous
course of oppression and misrule. Whilst extravagant dreams of the progressive advancement
of the human race are entertained, a large tract of the globe has been gradually relapsing
into barbarism. Whilst the folly of fashion requires an acquaintance with the deserts of Africa,
and a most ardent thirst for a knowledge of the customs of Timbuctoo,--whilst the trumpet tongue
of many an orator excites thousands to the rational and charitable object of converting the
Jews or of reclaiming the Gypsies,--not a single prospectus is spread abroad, not a single
voice is raised in Exeter Hall, to relieve the darkness of this paganism and the horrors of
this slave-trade. Under these circumstances I have considered that individual exertions may
be usefully applied to rouse the zeal of slumbering philanthropy."

The feelings thus awakened were not of a transient character. His dreams henceforth were to
visit these islands, see them for himself, study their natural history, understand their social
condition, and ascertain what avenues could be opened for trade, and what steps taken to redeem
the oppressed native races.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1835 the death of his father, leaving him master of an independent fortune, enabled him
to realize his dreams. He was a member of the Royal Yacht Club, as well as owner and commander
of a yacht,--a position which admitted him in foreign ports to all the privileges of an English
naval officer. In this little vessel he resolved to undertake an adventurous voyage of discovery.
He approached his enterprise with a wary forethought. "I was convinced," he says, "that it
was necessary to form men to my purpose, and by a line of steady and kind conduct to raise
up a personal regard for myself and an attachment to the vessel." He cruised three years in
the Mediterranean, carefully selecting and training his crew. He studied thoroughly the whole
subject of the Eastern Archipelago, and acquainted himself as perfectly as possible with the
minutiæ of seamanship and with every useful art. And when his preparations were all complete,
on the 16th of December, 1838, he set sail for Singapore, in the yacht Royalist, a vessel of
one hundred and forty-two tons, manned by twenty men and officers, with an armament of six
six-pounders and a full supply of small arms of all sorts. Such were the mighty resources wherewith
he began an enterprise which has ended in raising him to the government of a petty kingdom,
and to almost sovereign influence over the whole empire of Borneo Proper.

The reader has already had glimpses of the feelings which prompted this expedition. In a communication
to the "Geographical Register" he more fully unfolds his views; and from this and from his
familiar letters it is not difficult to gain a clear idea of the character and motives of the
man. That his ardent mind had been fired by a study of the career of his great predecessor,
Stamford Raffles, is evident. That he was himself one of those energetic, restless natures,
to which idleness or mere routine-work is the severest of penalties, is equally evident. He
had, moreover, a large share of that kind of enthusiasm which the cool, sagacious men of this
world call romance, and which delights to fasten on objects seemingly impossible. He was like
the old knights, rejoicing most when the field of their devoir was distant and dangerous. Yet
not altogether like them. He was rather a man of the twelfth century, disciplined and invigorated
by the hard common-sense and sharp utilitarianism of the nineteenth century. And we must not
forget that he honestly wished to benefit the native races. Every page, nay, almost every line,
in his journals and letters, bears witness to his profound compassion for the despised and
downtrodden Dyaks. Aside from this, when we remember that he was a genuine Englishman, proud
of his native land and thoughtful always of her aggrandizement, we need be at no loss to understand
his motives. He went forth to gratify a love of adventure, "to see something of the world and
come back again," to extend a little the realms of scientific knowledge, to suggest, perhaps,
some plans for the improvement of native character, and last, but not least, to learn whether
there might not be opened new avenues for the extension of British trade and British power.

That the methods by which these objects were to be attained were not very well defined even
to his own mind is clear. He himself said, "I cast myself upon the waters, like Southey's little
book; but whether the world will know me after many days, is a question I cannot answer." And
some years after, alluding to a charge of inconsistency, he said, "I did not embrace my position
at once; and indeed the position itself altered very rapidly; and I am free to confess before
the world that my views of duty and responsibility were not so high at first as they have since
been." Without doubt his direct and primary purpose was investigation. He took with him men
of some scientific knowledge, himself being no mean observer; and he proposed to prosecute,
wherever opportunity occurred, researches into the geography, natural history, and commercial
resources of these islands. If he had ulterior ends, as yet they existed in his mind as fascinating
dreams, rather than well-defined plans.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a tedious voyage of nearly six months, the Royalist reached Singapore, June 1, 1839.
While Mr. Brooke was engaged in refitting his yacht, and anxiously revolving in his mind how
he should obtain permission to penetrate into the neighboring kingdom of Borneo, he learned
that Muda Hassim, uncle of the Sultan, and Rajah of Sarawak, the northwestern province of Borneo,
had displayed great humanity towards a crew of shipwrecked Englishmen. On receiving this information
he started at once for Sarawak, hoping to get some hold upon the Rajah, and by such help to
pursue his researches. But the time of his visit was most unfortunate. The whole province was
in a state of open rebellion; so that, while he was received courteously, and permitted to
make some local surveys, nothing of importance could be accomplished. Baffled and wearied by
delay, he sailed back to Singapore, and from thence to Celebes, where he remained several months,
engaged in extensive explorations, and in collecting specimens to illustrate the natural history
of that island.

Mr. Brooke returned from Celebes worn out and sick, and was obliged to remain at Singapore
several months to recruit his strength. In August, 1840, he made a second visit to Sarawak,
intending to tarry there a few days, and then proceed homeward by the way of Manilla and China.
"I have done fully as much as I promised the public," he writes. He found things in much the
same state as when he left. No progress had been made in the suppression of the rebellion.
Few lives indeed had been lost, but the most bloody war could hardly have produced worse results.
The country was filled with combatants. Every straggler was cut off. Violence and rapine were
the law. Trade and agriculture languished. A rich province was fast relapsing into a wilderness;
and all its people were beginning to suffer alike for shelter and sustenance. As our hero was
about to set sail, the Rajah opened his whole heart to him. His prospects were anything but
flattering. He found himself unequal to the reduction of the rebels. He was surrounded by traitors.
At the court of the Sultan, a hostile cabal, taking advantage of his ill-fortune, threatened
his power and his life. In this strait, he besought his visitor to remain and give him aid,
promising in event of success to confer upon him the government of the province. After a few
days' reflection, Mr. Brooke, believing, as he declares, that the cause of the Sultan was just,
believing also that what the whole people needed most was peace, and that peace would place
him in a position to render them the greatest service, acceded to this request, without, however,
be it observed, binding Muda Hassim to any precise stipulations concerning the government.

Many pages of his journal are devoted to an account of this war; and a most curious story it
is of cowardice, bravado, and inefficiency. It was advance and retreat, boastful challenge
and as boastful reply, marching and countermarching, day after day, and month after month.
"Like the heroes of old, the adverse parties spoke to each other: 'We are coming, we are coming;
lay aside your muskets and fight us with your swords'; and so the heroes ceased not to talk,
but always forgot to fight";--the sum of all their achievements being to lay waste the country,
to interrupt honest industry, and to put in peril the lives of the unoffending. Mr. Brooke
soon tired of this farce. Gathering a motley force, consisting of Malays, Dyaks, Chinese, and
his own crew, he prepared for an assault. Then, planting his cannon where they commanded the
stronghold of the enemy, with a few well-directed volleys he brought its walls tumbling about
their ears. The insurgents, driven to the open country, and altogether amazed by this specimen
of Saxon energy, surrendered at discretion. At one blow a desolating war was ended.

       *       *       *       *       *

Peace being restored, Mr. Brooke did not insist on the literal fulfilment of the terms which
Muda Hassim had in his extremity been so ready to proffer. He chose to occupy a position of
influence, rather than one of outward authority. A contract was entered into by which he became
Resident of Sarawak. The conditions of the agreement were, that the Rajah on his part should
repress piracy, protect legitimate commerce, and as far as possible remove from the Dyaks unjust
burdens; while his ally, in return for these concessions, should open trade, sending a vessel
to and fro between Singapore and Sarawak, exchanging foreign luxuries for native products,
and more especially for antimony, of which article the Rajah had the monopoly. In fulfilment
of his part of the treaty, Mr. Brooke proceeded to Singapore, purchased a schooner, loaded
her with an assorted cargo, returned to Sarawak, and at the earnest request of Muda Hassim
landed and distributed his goods.

But auspicious as was the commencement of this alliance, soon grave causes of complaint arose.
On every point the deceitful Malay came short of his agreement. Having obtained valuable property,
he showed no alacrity in paying for it; weeks and months passed without bringing him apparently
any nearer to a pecuniary settlement. So far from repressing piracy, he encouraged it; and
a fleet of one hundred and twenty prahus, with his tacit consent, actually put to sea. When
a crew of English seamen were enslaved and carried to Bruni, under the most frivolous pretexts
he refused to intercede with the Sultan for these unfortunate men. And so this strange friendship
cooled. It was no slight proof either of his courage or his humanity to despatch at this very
time, as Mr. Brooke did, his yacht to Bruni, to attempt something in behalf of his enslaved
countrymen, and to remain himself with only three men at Sarawak. The yacht came back, however,
having effected nothing.

By this time the patience of the creditor was exhausted. Despoiled of his goods, finding that,
despite his remonstrances, the Dyaks were cruelly oppressed, and that piracy was encouraged,
he resolved to try the effect of threats. He repaired on board his yacht, loaded her guns with
grape and canister, and brought her broadside to bear upon the Rajah's palace. Then taking
a small, but well-armed guard, he sought an interview with Muda Hassim. The terror of that
functionary was extreme. The native tribes openly sided with their English friend. The Chinese
residents remained obstinately neutral. The Malays, between cowardice and treachery, afforded
him no efficient support. To crown all, his resolute and incensed ally had only to wave his
hand to bring down upon him swift destruction. "After this demonstration, things went cheerily
to a conclusion." Muda Hassim, finding that his creditor was inflexible, and being unable or
unwilling to pay for the goods which he had fraudulently obtained, offered in payment of all
debts to surrender the government. The offer was accepted, the agreement drawn up, signed,
sealed, guns fired and flags waved, and on September 24, 1841, Mr. Brooke became Rajah of Sarawak.
In August of the following year the Sultan solemnly confirmed the agreement.

The territory thus strangely passing into the hands of a private English gentleman was a tract
of country bordering upon the sea sixty miles, and extending inland from seventy to eighty
miles. Situated at the northeastern extremity of Borneo, pierced by two small, but navigable
rivers, its position is most favorable for commerce. Its soil is deep and rich, yielding under
any proper culture large crops of all tropical products. Its forests are filled with trees
fit for shipbuilding, and abound in that variety from which is obtained the gutta percha of
commerce. The hills are rich in iron and tin of the best quality. The mountain streams wash
down gold. In the beds of smaller rivers are found diamonds, in such profusion that most of
the Malays wear them set in rings and other ornaments. From this single province comes nearly
the whole supply of antimony in the world. "I do not believe," says a resident, "that in the
same given space there can be found so great mineral and vegetable wealth in any land in the
whole world."

       *       *       *       *       *

With what sentiments the new Rajah entered upon his duties can be best understood by a perusal
of his familiar letters. He writes to his mother: "Do not start when I say that I am going
to settle in Borneo, that I am about to endeavor to plant there a mixed colony amid a wild
but not unvirtuous race, and to become the pioneer of European knowledge and improvement. The
diffusion of civilization, commerce, and religion through so vast an island as Borneo, I call
a grand object,--so grand that self is quite lost when I consider it; and even failure would
be much better than the non-attempt." "A few days ago I was up a high mountain and looked over
the country. It is a prospect which I have rarely seen equalled; and sitting there, lazily
smoking a cigar, I called into existence the coffee plantations, the sugar plantations, the
nutmeg plantations, and pretty white villages and tiny steeples, and dreamed that I heard the
buzz of life and the clang of industry amid the jungles, and that the China Colins whistled
as they went, for want of thought, as they homeward bent."

The first duty which claimed attention was the relief of the native Dyaks. A shrewd Dyak once
defined the Malay government as "a plantain in the mouth and a thorn in the back." A plantain
giving to their poor subjects a little to keep life in them; a thorn stripping them to the
skin and piercing them to the bone. The description is pithy, and it is true. The exactions
of the Malay chiefs were almost beyond belief. Seizing and monopolizing some article of prime
necessity,--salt perhaps,--they would force the natives to buy at the rate of fifty dollars'
worth of rice for a teacup of salt; until the wretched cultivator, who had raised a plentiful
crop, was brought to the verge of starvation. They reserved to themselves the right of purchasing
the articles which the Dyaks had to sell, and then affixed to those articles an arbitrary price,
perhaps less than a five-hundredth of their real value. They would send a bar of iron two or
three feet long, and having an intrinsic worth of a few cents, to the head mart of a tribe,
demanding that his village should give for it a sum equal to five, ten, or twenty dollars.
Another was sent in the same way, and another, and another, until the rapacity of the chiefs
was satisfied, or the wretched natives had no more to give. Often, when the latter had been
robbed of everything, the Malays would seize and sell their wives and children. It is recorded
of one tribe, that there was not so much as one woman or child to be found in it. All had been
swept off by these remorseless slave-hunters. Nor did their wrongs end here. If a Dyak killed
a Malay "under any circumstances of aggression," he was put to death, often with every possible
addition of torture. If he accidentally injured one of the ruling caste, he was fortunate to
escape with the loss of half or two thirds of his little savings. On the other hand, a Malay
might kill as many Dyaks as he pleased, and if perchance justice were a little sterner than
usual, he might be fined a few cents or a few dollars. Volumes are contained in this one statement,
that in the ten years from 1830 to 1840, the Dyaks in the province of Sarawak dwindled from
14,000 to 6,000 souls.

A blow was immediately struck at the root of this black oppression. As soon as the new government
was fairly established, a few simple enactments were published. They declared that every man,
Dyak as well as Malay, should enjoy unmolested all the gains of his toil; that all exactions
of every name and nature should cease, and that only a small tax, evenly distributed, should
be levied for the support of government; that all roads and rivers should be free to all; that
all molestation of the Dyaks should be punished with severity. The proclamation which contains
these laws concludes with exhorting all persons who are disposed to disturb the public peace
to take flight speedily to some other country, where they can break with impunity the laws
of God and man. These enactments were firmly executed, without fear and without partiality.
Wonderful were the results! Internal violence ceased. The confidence of the natives was awakened.
Industry and enterprise sprang up on every hand as by magic. Sarawak became a city of refuge.
Sometimes as many as fifty fled thither in a day. In 1844, in the short space of two months,
five hundred families took shelter in the province. In 1850, three thousand Chinese fled from
Sambas to Sarawak. The Dyaks returned the good-will of their Rajah with love and reverence.
During one of his tours in the interior, delegations from tribes numbering six thousand souls
came to seek his protection. "We have heard," said they, in simple but touching language, "that
a son of Europe has arrived, who is a friend of the Dyaks." When he visited the native hamlets,
the women would throw themselves on the ground and clasp his feet, and the whole tribe would
spend the night in joyful feasting and merriment. It is soberly affirmed by a credible witness,
that on one occasion messengers came fifteen days' journey from a distant province to see if
there were such a phenomenon as Dyaks living in comfort.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Brooke soon found that all his efforts for internal reform must be in a comparative sense
futile so long as piracy, that curse of Borneo, was permitted to ravage unchecked. No person
who has not investigated the subject can appreciate how wide-spread and deep-seated this plague
of piracy is. The mere statistics are appalling. It was estimated, in 1840, that one hundred
thousand men made freebooting their trade. One single chief had under control seven hundred
prahus. Whole tribes, whole groups of islands, almost whole races, despising even the semblance
of honest industry, depended upon rapine for a livelihood. "It is difficult to catch fish,
but it is easy to catch Borneans," said the Soloo pirates scornfully; and, acting upon that
principle, they fitted out their fleets and planned their voyages with all the method of honest
tradesmen.

This piracy was divided into two branches,--coastwise piracy and piracy on the broad seas.
The Sea Dyaks built boats called bangkongs, sixty to a hundred feet long, narrow and sharp,
propelled by thirty to fifty oars, and so swift that nothing but a steamer could overtake them.
These freebooters were the terror of all honest laborers and tradesmen. Skulking along the
coast, pushing up rivers and creeks, landing anywhere and every where without warning, they
mercilessly destroyed the native villages and swept the inhabitants into captivity. Or else,
impelling with the force of fifty men their snaky craft, which were swift as race-boats and
noiseless as beasts of prey, they would surprise at dead of night some defenceless merchantman,
overwhelm their victims with showers of spears, and with morning light a plundered boat, a
few dead bodies, were the silent witnesses of their ferocity. On the other hand, the Illanum
and Balanini tribes, infesting the islands to the northeast of Borneo, undertook far grander
enterprises. Putting to sea, prepared for a long voyage, in fleets of two or three hundred
prahus, propelled by wind and oars, armed with brass cannon, and manned by ten thousand bold
buccaneers, they swept through the whole length of the Chinese Sea, and, turning the southernmost
point of Borneo, penetrated the straits and sounds between Java and Celebes, never stopping
in their ruthless course until they came face to face with the sturdy pirates of New Guinea,
and returned, after a voyage of ten thousand miles and an absence of two years, laden with
spoils and captives. How hapless was the fate of the poor Dyak! If he stayed at home, cultivating
his fields, his Malay lord fleeced him to the skin. If, thinking to engage in gainful traffic,
he hugged the shore with his little bark, the river-pirate snatched him up. If he stood out
upon the broad waters, he could scarcely hope to escape the Northern hordes who swarmed in
every sea.

Mr. Brooke's most terrible assailants were the Sakarran and Sarebus pirates, two tribes of
freebooters whose seats of power were on the Sarebus and Batang Lupar rivers, two streams fifty
or sixty miles east of Sarawak. These tribes were encouraged and secretly helped by his own
Malay chiefs, and insolently defied his power, continuing their depredations, capturing every
vessel which ventured out, and ravaging all the adjacent coasts. The strength of these confederacies
was so great, that it was no unusual thing for them to muster a hundred war-boats; and they
had built, on the banks of the rivers which they infested, strong forts at every point which
commanded the channel. That the new Rajah was not able with his slender resources to curb these
sea-robbers is not surprising. The only wonder is, that he was able to protect his own capital
from the assaults which they often threatened but never dared to attempt.

But efficient aid was at hand. In the summer of 1843 the British ship Dido anchored off the
entrance of Sarawak River. She was commissioned to suppress piracy in and about the Chinese
Sea. Her commander readily entered into the views of the English Rajah. A boat expedition against
the strongholds of the Sarebus pirates was projected. Mr. Brooke assisted with seven hundred
Dyaks. A curious incident occurred, showing how clearly the natives appreciated their dependence
on their English friend. When he asked their chiefs if they would aid him, they besought him
not to risk his life in so desperate an enterprise. But when he assured them that his purpose
was fixed, that he should go, alone if necessary, they replied: "What is the use of our remaining
behind? You die, we die; you live, we live. We will go too." The expedition was perfectly successful.
Three fortified villages were stormed, many guns spiked, many boats destroyed, and their defenders
driven to the jungles. This chastisement not sufficing, in the following year another expedition
from the same vessel attacked the Sakarran pirates and inflicted upon them a punishment even
more severe than that which had fallen to the lot of their Sarebus brethren. Six forts, one
mounting fifty-six guns, scores of war-boats, and more than a thousand huts, were burned. These
lessons, though sharp, did not permanently subdue.

The blow which broke the power of these confederacies was inflicted in 1849. News came to Sarawak
that the pirates had put to sea, marking their course by fearful atrocities. At once Mr. Brooke
applied to the English Admiral for assistance, and the steamer Nemesis was despatched to the
scene of action. The Rajah joined her with eighteen war-boats, to which were afterwards added
eleven hundred Dyaks, in their bangkongs. On the 31st of July, at night, they encountered the
great war-fleet of the Sarebus and Sakarran pirates, numbering one hundred and fifty bangkongs,
returning home laden with plunder. In the dead of the night there ensued a terrible scene.
The pirates fought bravely, but they could not withstand the superior forces of their enemy.
The English officers would have gladly saved life; but the pirates would take no quarter, and
the prisoners were few. It was a striking fact, that one of the war-boats under Mr. Brooke
was manned by some thirty Malays, every one of whom had lost during the year a near relative,
killed by these same pirates. The confederacy has never risen from this defeat, and for years
the tribes composing it have returned to the labors of peaceful life. Writing twelve months
afterwards to a friend, Rajah Brooke says: "Pray keep the 31st of July apart for a special
bumper, for during the last year not a single innocent life has been taken by these pirates,
nor a single prahu fallen into their hands." Many a victory, famous in story, has accomplished
less.

The next year a fleet of sixty-four prahus, manned by northern pirates, and carrying 1224 guns,
was destroyed by British gunboats in the Gulf of Tonquin. This was followed by an attack of
the Spaniards upon the haunts of the Soloo pirates. A lull ensued. For three or four years
almost nothing was heard of freebooting; but it was a deceitful calm, not a final cessation
of the storm. The freebooting spirit was not taken out of the blood of the Malay. Now piracy
is said to be on the increase again. Only three years since six Balanini pirates had the audacity
to sail into Sarawak Bay and commence depredations along its coasts. But not one returned to
tell the tale. The whole six were captured or destroyed, and their crews killed or taken prisoners.
The only permanent remedy for the evil is just, settled, and efficient government, such as
has been established at Sarawak, destroying not simply the fleets, but breaking up the piratical
haunts, and with firm hand forcing their people back into the habits and pursuits of civilized
life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Being delivered for a time at least from these perils, the new Rajah was at liberty to devote
himself to the welfare of his subjects. It is not possible, in a brief notice, even to hint
at all the events and efforts of the next fifteen years of his government,--to say how he repressed
the cupidity and lawlessness of the Malay chiefs; how he encouraged and protected the poor
Dyaks; how he opened new channels for trade; how, from year to year, he resisted the fierce
pirates, who, coming from the neighboring islands with strong fleets, sought to sweep the adjacent
seas. Of course the prime need was to restore confidence, and to assure to all honest workers,
of every race, the gains of their industry. The first question, indeed, of the Chinese emigrant
was, "Will you protect us, or will our plantations, so soon as they are worth anything, be
stripped by your chiefs?" It has been beautiful to behold order coming out of chaos, peace
out of violence, whole districts redeemed from anarchy, simply by giving efficient support
to the orderly part of the population. Another object of not less importance was to create
in this people something of the feeling of nationality, and to make them comprehend that they
were citizens, with the duties of citizens. It certainly was no easy task to awaken much of
the sentiment of lofty patriotism in the minds of those whose only common memories were of
lawless misrule and oppression. Every possible effort has been made in this direction. The
struggle has been, not to plant an English colony, but to create a Bornean state. The laws
are not English, nor built upon English precedents. They are simply the old Bornean statutes,
made conformable to the principles of equity, and administered with just regard to the customs
and traditions of the people. The offices of government are filled to the least possible degree
with foreigners; while native chiefs and even reclaimed pirates are associated with them, and
thus habituated to all the forms of a civilized state. Mr. Brooke, with a rare courage and
wisdom, has always trusted for his safety to the good-will of his native subjects. He has never
been sustained by mercenary bands. At a time when piratical violence was most threatening,
when disorders were yet rife in his own state, and when his subjects but poorly appreciated
his benevolent purposes towards them, his whole English force was twenty-four men. It is pleasant
to add, that this confidence was not misplaced. A younger generation is now springing up, with
larger views of life, and with a better appreciation of the workings and value of equitable
government. To sum up all in a brief sentence, it may be said with truth that the administration
has been marked by rare sagacity, firmness, and comprehensiveness of view, and that it has
been crowned with success.

In 1845, Mr. Brooke came for the first time into official relations with the British government,
by accepting the office of confidential agent in Borneo. We have already alluded to his warm
love of his native country. As early as 1841, he had expressed a willingness to sacrifice his
large outlays, and to relinquish all his rights and interests to the crown, if a guaranty could
be given that piracy would be checked and the native races protected in all their proper rights
and privileges. He accepted gladly, therefore, a post which promised to increase his power
to benefit his people, and entered upon its duties with vigor. Immediately upon his appointment,
he was requested to make investigations as to the existence of a harbor fit for the shelter
and victualling of ships bound from Hong-Kong to Singapore. He reported that Labuan, a small
island north of Borneo, was in every way suitable; that it was about equidistant from the two
parts; that it had a fine harbor, or rather roadstead; that it was healthy; that it abounded
in coal of the best quality; that, finally, the Sultan stood pledged to convey it upon reasonable
terms.

But before legal papers could be drawn, the whole policy of the court of Bruni had changed.
The Sultan was a monarch with "the head of an idiot and the heart of a pirate." All his sympathies
were with violence and robbery. Under the influence of others, he had agreed to use his power
against piracy, and had even been brought to say, in fawning phrase, that "he wanted the English
near to him." But he suddenly repented of his good purposes. In a fit of Oriental fickleness
he caused Muda Hassim and all who favored the English alliance to be put to death, despatched
a messenger secretly to administer poison to Mr. Brooke, and entered into even closer friendship
than before with the piratical tribes. A confidential servant of Pangeran Budrudeen, the brother
of Muda Hassim, with difficulty escaped, and fled to Sarawak. He related that his master had
bravely resisted, but, overpowered by numbers and desperately wounded, had committed to his
charge a ring, bidding him deliver it to Rajah Brooke as a dying memento, and to tell him that
he died faithful to his pledges to the Queen; then, setting fire to a keg of powder, he blew
himself with his family into the air.

These tidings filled Mr. Brooke with grief and indignation. Every passion of his fiery and
energetic nature was aroused. He repaired on board the British fleet, which, upon receipt of
this news, had put into Sarawak. Without delay the fleet sailed for Bruni. An immediate explanation
was demanded of the Sultan. The reply was a volley from the forts which commanded the river.
Without ceremony the ships returned the fire. In a brief time these strongholds were stormed,
and Bruni itself was at the mercy of the enemy. The Sultan fled to the swamps. Sailing out
of Borneo River, the fleet swept along the whole northern coast, taking in rapid succession
the forts of the Illanum pirates who had instigated the murders at Bruni, and inflicting upon
them a signal chastisement.

By this time the Sultan wearied of jungles and sighed for his palace. He wrote a cringing letter,
promising amendment, agreeing to ratify all his former engagements, and as a sign of his true
penitence was ready even to pay royal honors to the memory of the men whom he had slain. There
was no further difficulty in respect to the cession of Labuan, and it was taken possession
of December 24, 1846,--Mr. Brooke being appointed governor. It is said that the possession
of this island goes far to make England mistress of the Chinese Sea,--a statement easily to
be credited by any one conversant with English policy. At any rate, he who observes how, at
apparently insignificant stations,--on little islands, on a marshy peninsula,--mere dots on
the map,--England has established her commercial depots,--at Hong-Kong in the north, at Labuan
in the centre, and at Singapore in the south,--will gain new respect for the sagacity which
in the councils of the mother country always lurks behind the red-tapism of which we hear so much.

       *       *       *       *       *

After an absence of nine years, Rajah Brooke revisited England in the year 1847. He was the
hero of the hour. Every honor was showered upon him. He was invited to visit Windsor Castle,
received the freedom of London, and then or soon after was knighted. Owing to his representations
of the readiness of the Dyaks to receive instruction, a meeting was held in London, at which
funds were obtained to build a church and school-houses. Two missionaries and their families
were sent to Sarawak. The buildings were erected long since, and these Christian means are
in full activity. Brooke's language upon the proper qualifications of a missionary exhibits
in a striking light his straightforward resolution and enlarged liberality. "Above all things,
I beg of you to save us from such a one as some of the committee desire to see at Sarawak.
Zealots, and intolerants, and enthusiasts, who begin the task of tuition by a torrent of abuse
against all that their pupils hold sacred, shall not come to Sarawak. Whilst our endeavors
to convert the natives are conducted with charity, I am a warm friend of the mission. But whenever
there is a departure from the only visible means God has placed at our disposal,--time, reason,
patience,--and the Christian faith is to be heralded in its introduction by disturbances and
heart-burnings and bloodshed, I want it not; and you are quite at liberty to say, that I would
rather that the mission were withdrawn."

       *       *       *       *       *

About the year 1850, Mr. Brooke became the object of a virulent attack, continued several years,
both in the public prints and in Parliament. Prompted originally by the petty malice of those
whose tool for the advancement of their personal schemes he had refused to become, this attack
was taken up by a few persons of influence, who seem to have misunderstood utterly both his
character and work. He has been termed a mere adventurer. He has been accused of avarice, of
wringing from the natives great sums, and receiving from England large salaries as Consul at
Borneo and as Governor of Labuan. It has been asserted that he has been guilty of wholesale
slaughter of the innocent, interfering with tribal wars under the pretence of extirpating piracy.
None of these charges have been sustained. On the contrary, it has been conclusively shown
that he has sunk more than £20,000 of his private fortune in this enterprise. The piracy, so
mildly called intertribal war, is undoubtedly robbery, both on the sea and on the land, and
conducted with all fitting accompaniments of cruelty and bloodshed. This persecution has not
been borne by its object with much patience, and, indeed, like Rob Roy's Highlander, "he does
not seem to be famous for that gude gift." "I am no tame lion to be cowed by a pack of hounds.
These intertribal wars are such as the wolf wages against the lamb. I should like to ask the
most peaceable man in England what he would do if a horde of bandits frequently burst forth
from Brest and Cherbourg, ravaging the shores of the Channel, and carrying women and children
into captivity, with the heads of their decapitated husbands and fathers? Would he preach?
Would he preach when he saw his daughter dishonored and his son murdered? And then would he
proclaim his shame and cowardice among men? What do some gentlemen expect? They particularly
desire to suppress piracy. Do they really imagine that piracy is to be suppressed by argument
and preaching?"

Mr. Brooke's enemies have three times pressed their accusations before the House of Commons,
and three times have been defeated by overwhelming majorities,--the last vote being 230 to
19. Finally, to end the controversy, a royal commission was appointed to visit the scene of
these transactions, and upon the spot to decide their merits. The report of this commission
has not reached us, if indeed it has ever been made public; but the practical results of it
are certain. Mr. Brooke has severed his official connection with the British government by
a resignation of the offices which he held under it; while he retains his sovereignty at Sarawak,
with the undiminished love of his subjects and an unimpaired influence over the native tribes.
There seems to be no doubt that the intelligent public opinion of England fully sustains him.
And it is safe to predict that with that opinion the final verdict of history will coincide.
That, placed in circumstances of great difficulty, he may have taken steps not to be squared
with the nicest morality, is possible; for that is what must be said of every man who has borne
the burden of great public responsibility. Neither is it surprising that a man of such boldness
of speech and such almost Cromwellian vigor in action should have enemies; that is a necessity.
But that he has been a true and sagacious friend of the natives, and that his career has been
for the increase of human happiness, are facts as certain as any can be.

His best defence is his works. In 1842, when he took the government of Sarawak, it was a feeble
province, torn by dissension, crushed by slavery, and ravaged by lawless violence. Now it is
a peaceful, prosperous commonwealth. In 1842, its capital, Kuching, was a wretched village,
whose houses were miserable mud huts or tents of leaves, and containing but fifteen hundred
inhabitants. Now it numbers fifteen thousand,--an increase almost rivalling that of our Western
cities. In 1842, no boat put to sea without terror. As a result, the amount of trade was contemptible.
Now Sarawak has enterprising native merchants, owning vessels of two hundred tons, having regular
transactions with Singapore and all the neighboring ports. This trade, as early as 1853, employed
twenty-five thousand tons of shipping, and the exports for the year were valued at more than
a million of dollars. In 1842, deaths by violence were of almost daily occurrence. Twelve years
later, a resident could boast that for three years only one person had lost his life by other
than natural causes. How would American cities appear in comparison with this poor Dyak and
heathen metropolis? Well does Rajah Brooke proudly ask, "Could such success spring from a narrow
and sordid policy?" Mrs. McDougall, the missionary's wife, says: "We have now a beautiful church
at Sarawak, and the bell calls us there to worship every morning at six, and at five every
evening. Neither is there anything in this quiet, happy place to prevent our thus living in
God's presence."

Mrs. McDougall adds a story which shows the estimation in which the natives hold their Rajah.
"Pa Jenna paid me a visit at Sarawak. The Rajah was then in England. But Pa Jenna, coming into
my sitting-room, immediately espied his picture hanging against the wall. I was much struck
with the expression of respect which both the face and attitude of this untutored savage assumed
as he stood before the picture. He raised his handkerchief from his head, and, saluting the
picture with a bow, such as a Roman Catholic would make to his patron saint's altar, whispered
to himself, 'Our great Rajah.'" And this man was a reclaimed pirate.

This reverential love of the natives is the one thing which does not admit of a doubt. The
proofs are constant and irresistible. Some years since a lady with a few attendants was pushing
her boat up a Bornean river, many leagues away from Sarawak, when she encountered a wild Dyak
tribe on a warlike expedition. The sight of more than a hundred half-naked savages, crowning
a little knoll which jutted into the river a half-dozen rods in advance of her boat, dancing
frantically like maniacs, brandishing their long knives, and yelling all the while like demons,
was not cheering. Yet at the sight of the Sarawak flag raised at the bow of the boat, every
demonstration of hostility ceased. She was overpowered by their noisy welcome, and received
from them the kindest attention. A dozen years ago, at the very time that the accusations of
cruelty and wholesale slaughter of innocent people were most recklessly made, a party of Englishmen,
and among them the adopted son of the Rajah, went on an exploring expedition to the extreme
northeast corner of Borneo, more than six hundred miles from Sarawak. While they were seated
one evening around their fire, the whole air resounded with the cries, "Tuan Brooke! Tuan Brooke!"
and presently the natives drew near and expressed their joy at seeing a son of the great Rajah,
and wondering that he who had so blessed the southern Dyaks did not extend his protection to
their northern brethren. One anecdote more. During the Chinese insurrection, of which we shall
soon speak, a Malay chief, fighting desperately against the insurgents, was mortally wounded,
only lingering long enough to be assured of the Rajah's victory, and to exclaim with his dying
breath, "I would rather be in hell with the English, than in heaven with my own countrymen."

       *       *       *       *       *

The loyalty of the native population was thoroughly tested in the year 1857. It was the time
of the second British war against China. Now the Chinese are in one sense the most cosmopolitan
of races. Wherever bread is to be won, or gold amassed, there they go, thus becoming scattered
all through Southeastern Asia and the adjoining islands. In one aspect they are a great blessing.
They are a most laborious and thrifty race, of almost incalculable benefit in the development
of the material resources of a country. But in some respects they are also an element of danger.
They never identify themselves with the country in which they dwell. They simply come to get
a living out of it. They band themselves in secret societies or other exclusive organizations,
and seem to get no real love for the land which gives them bread, or the people among whom
they live. Under a peaceful rule, this race had greatly multiplied at Sarawak. Some branches
of industry had indeed almost fallen into their hands. Especially in all mining operations
was their help a positive necessity. For the Dyak, though industrious enough on his little
plantation, will not work, except on compulsion, in the mines. These places are bitter to him
with the memory of forced labor and unrequited misery. Besides, he believes that the bowels
of the earth are filled with demons, and no amount of pay gives him courage to face these.
As a result, the conduct of the mines was left to the Chinese, and they were unwisely permitted
to work them in large companies of several hundred, under their own overseers. This gave them
the advantages of a compact organization: to a dangerous degree they became a state within
the state.

When the war in China broke out, the Chinese residents at Sarawak, sympathizing with their
countrymen, were naturally greatly excited; and when tidings came that the English fleet had
been repulsed from before the Canton forts, they were emboldened to take the desperate step
of attempting to put to death or to drive out of the country Rajah Brooke and the rest of the
English people, that they themselves might take possession of it. About dusk on a February
night, six hundred of them gathered under their chiefs, armed themselves, went on board cargo-boats,
and began to float down the river towards the capital. At midnight they attacked the Rajah's
house. Its inmates were forced to flee to the jungles. The Rajah rose from a sick-bed, ran
to the banks of the stream, dove under one of the Chinese boats, swam the river, and took refuge
with the Malays. Several of his countrymen were murdered. His own house, filled with the priceless
collections of a lifetime, together with a costly library, was burned.

It was a gloomy morning which succeeded the night of this catastrophe. Though he did not doubt
for a moment the ultimate suppression of the rebellion, what ruin might not be wrought in the
few days or weeks which should elapse before that event! And where, now that he had been driven
from his capital, he should find a base of operations to which he might gather the scattered
native forces, was the perplexing question of the hour,--when, joyful sight, he beheld a merchant
steamer sailing up the river! He hailed her, went on board, and with a sufficient force steamed
up to Sarawak. With his appearance the last vestige of hope for the insurrection disappeared.

Meanwhile stirring events had taken place. At first the natives were stunned. They were roused
at dead of night, to find the Chinese in possession of the town, their Rajah's house in flames,
the Rajah missing, while the rumor was that he had been killed. For a time they wandered about
listlessly, vacantly staring each other in the face, and it seemed as though they were about
to submit without a struggle. In the midst of this gloom and uncertainty, up spoke a Malay
trader, whose veins, despite his peaceful occupation, were full of the old pirate blood: "Are
we going to submit to be governed by these Chinese, or are we going to be faithful to our Rajah?
I am no talker, but I will never be governed by any but him, and to-night I commence war to
the knife with his enemies." This broke the spell. Both Malays and Dyaks, in city and country
alike, rose en masse, and after a severe fight, prolonged till the reappearance of Mr. Brooke,
drove the Chinese to the forests, and pursued them with unrelenting fury. Many of the insurgents
perished by the sword. Many more wandered about till they died of starvation. Some threw themselves
down in their tracks, expiring from fatigue and utter wretchedness. Some hung themselves to
escape their misery. In despair and exasperation, they even turned their arms against each
other. Of the six hundred who made the original attack, sixty escaped. Of the four thousand
who composed the Chinese population, a forlorn and wearied remnant of two thousand took refuge
in the Dutch part of the island. This lamentable destruction was the result neither of the
order nor the permission of the Rajah. It was accomplished by the unreasoning fury of an outraged
people. In a few days the formidable insurrection was ended. The places of the insurgents were
filled as rapidly as they had been vacated. Scarcely a trace was left of the ravages of the
rebellion; and it accomplished nothing, save to convince all doubters that the government of
the province rested, as all stable government must rest, on the good-will of the subject.

At the height of the insurrection a striking incident occurred. While their brethren were being
hurled in utter confusion across the Dutch borders, several hundred Chinese fled from those
very Dutch territories and sought refuge in Sarawak. Though harassed by care, the Rajah did
not neglect their appeal, but sent trustworthy men, who piloted them safely through the incensed
Dyaks, who on their part by no means appreciated the virtue of such a step, but thought rather
that every man "who wore a tail" ought to be put to death, though they bowed to the better
judgment of their chief.

       *       *       *       *       *

The latest accounts represent the province as continuing in a state of unabated prosperity.
Its bounds, by more recent cessions, have been so largely increased, that its shore line is
now three hundred miles long, and the whole population of the state two hundred and fifty thousand.
The haunts of the Sarebus and Sakarran pirates are included in the new limits; and these once-dreaded
freebooters have learned the habits of honest industry. Indeed, during the days of the insurrection
the state found no more faithful or courageous defenders than they, although their old corsair
blood was visible in the relentless tenacity with which they tracked the flying foe. Sir James
Brooke, with increasing years, has retired somewhat from the active care of the government,
leaving the conduct of affairs very much to his nephew, Captain Brooke, whom he has designated
as his heir and successor, and who is represented as being also heir in a large degree to his
uncle's principles, courage, and sagacity.

Rajah Brooke sought persistently for many years to give perpetuity to his life's work by placing
Sarawak under British protection. He made repeated offers to surrender to the Queen all right
and title which he had acquired, on any terms which would secure the welfare of the natives.
But these offers have been definitely rejected; the seeming protection which Sarawak enjoyed
through the position of its ruler as Governor of Labuan has been withdrawn, and the little
state left to work out unaided its destiny. What shall be the final fate of this interesting
experiment, whether there shall arise successors to the founder wise enough to maintain the
government so bravely established, or whether the infant state shall perish with the man who
called it into existence, and become only a memory, it is impossible to foretell; but, living
or dead, its annals will always be a noble monument to him whose force of character and undaunted
persistency created it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The earlier portraits we have of Rajah Brooke depict him as a man of a peculiarly frank, open,
and pleasing exterior, yet with a countenance marked by intelligence, thought, and energy;
but underneath all a certain dreaminess of expression, found often in the faces of those born
for adventure and to seek for the enterprise of their age fresh fields, new El Dorados hidden
in strange lands and unfamiliar seas.

The later portraits give us a face, plain, sagacious, yet full of an expression of kindly benevolence.
The exigencies of a busy life have transformed romance into reality and common-sense; the adventurer
and knight-errant has but obeyed the law of his age, and become a noble example of the power
of the Anglo-Saxon mind to organize in the face of adverse circumstances a state, and to construct
out of most unpromising elements the good fabric of orderly social life.

       *       *       *       *       *

PASSAGES FROM HAWTHORNE'S NOTE-BOOKS.

XII.

March, 1845.--Nature sometimes displays a little tenderness for our vanity, but is never careful
for our pride. She is willing that we should look foolish in the eyes of others, but keeps
our little nonsensicalnesses from ourselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps there are higher intelligences that look upon all the manifestations of the human mind--metaphysics,
ethics, histories, politics, poems, stories, etc., etc.--with the same interest that we look
upon flowers, or any other humble production of nature,--finding a beauty and fitness even
in the poorest of them, which we cannot see in the best.

       *       *       *       *       *

A child or a young girl so sweet and beautiful, that God made new flowers on purpose for her.

May 4.--On the river-side, by the Promontory of Columbines. The river here makes a bend, nearly
at a right angle. On the opposite side, a high bank descends precipitately to the water; a
few apple-trees are scattered along the declivity. A small cottage, with a barn, peeps over
the top of the bank; and at its foot, with their roots in the water, is a picturesque clump
of several maple-trees, their trunks all in a cluster, and their tops forming a united mass
of new fast-budding foliage. At the foot of this clump of trees lies a boat, half in the water,
half drawn up on the bank. A tract of flags and water-weeds extends along the base of the bank,
outside of which, at a late period, will grow the flat, broad leaves of the yellow water-lily,
and the pond-lily. A southwestern breeze is ruffling the river, and drives the little wavelets
in the same direction as the current. Most of the course of the river in this vicinity is through
marshy and meadowy ground, as yet scarcely redeemed from the spring-time overflow, and which
at all seasons is plashy and unfit for walking. At my feet the water overbrims the shore, and
kisses the new green grass, which sprouts even beneath it.

The Promontory of Columbines rises rugged and rocky from amidst surrounding lowlands, (in a
field next to that where the monument is erected, near the Old Manse,) and it forms the forth-putting
angle at the bend of the river. In earlier spring the river embraces it all round, and converts
it into an island. Rocks, with flakes of dry moss covering them, peep out everywhere; and abundant
columbines grow in the interstices of these rocks, and wherever else the soil is scanty and
difficult enough to suit their fancy,--avoiding the smoother and better sites, which they might
just as well have chosen, close at hand. They are earlier on this spot than anywhere else,
and are therefore doubly valuable, though not nearly so large, nor of so rich a scarlet and
gold, as some that we shall gather from the eastern slope of a hill, two or three weeks hence.
The promontory is exposed to all winds, and there seems no reason why it should produce the
earliest flowers, unless that this is a peculiar race of columbines, which has the precious
gift of earlier birth assigned to them in lieu of rich beauty. This is the first day of the
present spring that I have found any quite blown; but last year, I believe, they came considerably
earlier. Here and there appeared a blue violet, nestling close to the ground, pretty, but inconvenient
to gather and carry home, on account of its short stalk. Houstonias are scattered about by
handfuls. Anemones have been in bloom for several days on the edge of the woods, but none ever
grow on the Promontory of Columbines.

The grass is a glad green in spots; but this verdure is very partial, and over the general
extent the old, withered stalks of last year's grass are found to predominate. The verdure
appears rich, between the beholder and the sun; in the opposite direction, it is much less
so. Old mullein-stalks rise tall and desolate, and cling tenaciously to the soil when we try
to uproot them. The promontory is broken into two or three heads. Its only shadow is from a
moderately-sized elm, which, from year to year, has flung down its dead branches, all within
its circumference, where they lie in various stages of decay. There are likewise rotten and
charred stumps of several other trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fence of our avenue is covered with moss on the side fronting towards the north, while
the opposite side is quite free from it,--the reason being, that there is never any sunshine
on the north side to dry the moisture caused by rains from the northeast. The moss is very
luxuriant, sprouting from the half-decayed wood, and clinging to it as if partially incorporated
therewith.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towards the dimness of evening a half-length figure appearing at a window,--the blackness of
the background, and the light upon the face, cause it to appear like a Rembrandt picture.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the top of Wachusett, butterflies, large and splendid; also bees in considerable numbers,
sucking honey from the alpine flowers. There is a certain flower, a species of Potentilla,
I think, which is found on mountains at a certain elevation, and inhabits a belt, being found
neither above nor below it. On the highest top of Wachusett there is a circular foundation,
built evidently with great labor, of large, rough stones, and rising perhaps fifteen feet.
On this basis formerly rose a wooden tower, the fragments of which, a few of the timbers, now
lie scattered about. The immediate summit of the mountain is nearly bare and rocky, although
interspersed with bushes; but at a very short distance below there are trees, though slender,
forming a tangled confusion, and among them grows the wild honeysuckle pretty abundantly, which
was in bloom when we were there (Sunday, June 17th). A flight of rude stone steps ascends the
circular stone foundation of the round tower. By the by, it cannot be more than ten feet high,
at the utmost, instead of fifteen.

The prospect from the top of Wachusett is the finest that I have seen,--the elevation being
not so great as to snatch the beholder from all sympathy with earth. The roads that wind along
at the foot of the mountain are discernible; and the villages, lying separate and unconscious
of one another, each with their little knot of peculiar interests, but all gathered into one
category by the observer above them. White spires, and the white glimmer of hamlets, perhaps
a dozen miles off. The gleam of lakes afar, giving life to the whole landscape. Much wood,
shagging hills and plains. On the west, a hill-country, swelling like waves, with these villages
sometimes discovered among them. On the east it looks dim and blue, and affects the beholder
like the sea, as the eye stretches far away. On the north (?) appears Monadnock, in his whole
person, discernible from the feet upwards, rising boldly and tangibly to the sense, so that
you have the figure wholly before you, fair and blue, but not dim and cloudlike.

On the road from Princeton to Fitchburg we passed fields which were entirely covered with the
mountain-laurel in full bloom,--as splendid a spectacle, in its way, as could be imagined.
Princeton is a little town, lying on a high ridge, exposed to all the stirrings of the upper
air, and with a prospect of a score of miles round about. The great family of this place is
that of the Boylstons, who own Wachusett, and have a mansion, with good pretensions to architecture,
in Princeton.

Notables: Old Gregory, the dweller of the mountain-side; his high-spirited wife; the son, speaking
gruffly from behind the scenes, in answer to his father's inquiries as to the expediency of
lodging us. The brisk little landlord at Princeton, recently married, intelligent, honest,
lively, agreeable; his wife, with her young-ladyish manners still about her; the second class
of annuals, and other popular literature, in the parlors of the house; colored engraving of
the explosion of the Princeton's gun, with the principal characters in that scene, designated
by name; also Death of Napoleon, &c. A young Mr. Boylston boarding at the inn, and driving
out in a beautiful, city-built phaeton, of exquisite lightness. We met him and a lady in the
phaeton, and two other ladies on horseback, in a narrow path, densely wooded, on the ascent
of a hill. It was quite romantic. Likewise old Mr. Boylston, frequenting the tavern, coming
in after church, and smoking a cigar,... entering into conversation with strangers about the
ascent of the mountain. The tailor of the place, with his queer advertisement pasted on the
wall of the barroom, comprising certificates from tailors in New York City, and various recommendations,
from clergymen and others, of his moral and religious character. Two Shakers in the cars,--both,
if I mistake not, with thread gloves on. The foundation of the old meeting-house of Princeton,
standing on a height above the village, as bleak and windy as the top of Mount Ararat; also
the old deserted town-house. The edifices were probably thus located in order to be more exactly
in the centre of the township.

       *       *       *       *       *

From July 25 to August 9, 1845, at Portsmouth Navy Yard. Remarkables: the free and social mode
of life among the officers and their families, meeting at evening on the door-steps or in front
of their houses, or stepping in familiarly; the rough-hewn first lieutenant, with no ideas
beyond the service; the doctor, priding himself on his cultivation and refinement, pretending
to elegance, sensitive, touchy; the sailing-master, an old salt, of the somewhat modernized
Tom Bowline pattern, tossed about by fifty years of stormy surges, and at last swept into this
quiet nook, where he tells yarns of his cruises and duels, repeats his own epitaph, drinks
a reasonable quantity of grog, and complains of dyspepsia; the old fat major of marines, with
a brown wig not pretending to imitate natural hair, but only to cover his baldness and grayness
with something that he imagines will be less unsightly: he has a potent odor of snuff, but
has left off wine and strong drink for the last twenty-seven years. A Southerner, all astray
among our New England manners, but reconciling himself to them, like a long practised man of
the world, only somewhat tremulous at the idea of a New England winter. The lieutenant of marines,
a tall, red-haired man, between thirty and forty, stiff in his motions from the effect of a
palsy contracted in Florida,--a man of thought, both as to his profession and other matters,
particularly matters spiritual,--a convert, within a few years, to Papistry,--a seer of ghosts,--a
dry joker, yet sad and earnest in his nature,--a scientific soldier, criticising Jackson's
military talent,--fond of discussion, with much more intellect than he finds employment for,--withal,
somewhat simple. Then the commandant of the yard, Captain S----, a man without brilliancy,
of plain aspect and simple manners, but just, upright, kindly, with an excellent practical
intellect; his next in rank, Commander P----, an officer-like, middle-aged man, with such cultivation
as a sensible man picks up about the world; and with what little tincture he imbibes from a
bluish wife. In the vicinity of the Navy Yard, an engineer-officer, stationed for a year or
two past on a secluded point of the coast, making a map, minutely finished, on a very extensive
scale, of country and coast near Portsmouth; he is red-nosed, and has the aspect of a free
liver; his companion, a civil engineer, with much more appearance of intellectual activity.
Their map is spread out in a room that looks forth upon the sea and islands, and has all the
advantages of sea-air,--very desirable for summer, but gloomy as a winter residence.

At Fort Constitution are many officers,--a major and two lieutenants, the former living in
a house within the walls of the fort, the latter occupying small residences outside. They are
coarse men, apparently of few ideas, and not what one can call gentlemen. They are likewise
less frank and hospitable than the navy officers. Their quarters have not the aspect of homes,
although they continue for a term of years, five or more, on one station, whereas the navy
officers are limited to two or three. But then the former migrate with their families to new
stations, whereas the wives of the naval officers, though ejected from the navy-yard houses,
yet, not accompanying their husbands on service, remain to form a nucleus of home.

Two or three miles from the Navy Yard, on Kittery Point, stands the former residence of Sir
William Pepperell. It is a gambrel-roofed house, very long and spacious, and looks venerable
and imposing from its dimensions. A decent, respectable, intelligent woman admitted us, and
showed us from bottom to top of her part of the house; she being a tenant of one half. The
rooms were not remarkable for size, but were panelled on every side. The staircase is the best
feature, ascending gradually, broad and square, and with an elaborate balustrade; and over
the front door there is a wide window and a spacious breadth, where the old baronet and his
guests, after dinner, might sit and look out upon the water and his ships at anchor. The garret
is one apartment, extending over the whole house. The kitchen is very small,--much too small
for the credit of the house, were it not redeemed by the size of the fireplace, which originally
could not have been less than fourteen feet, though now abridged by an oven, which has been
built within it. The hearth extends half-way across the floor of the kitchen. On one side,
the road passes close by the house; on the other, it stands within fifty yards of the shore.
I recollect no outhouses. At a short distance, across the road, is a marble tomb, on the level
slab of which is the Pepperell coat of arms, and an inscription in memory of Sir William's
father, to whom the son seems to have erected it,--although it is the family tomb. We saw no
other trace of Sir William or his family. Precisely a hundred years since he was in his glory.
None of the name now exist here,--or elsewhere, as far as I know. A descendant of the Sparhawks,
one of whom married Pepperell's daughter, is now keeper of a fort in the vicinity,--a poor
man. Lieutenant Baker tells me that he has recently discovered a barrel full of the old family
papers.

The house in Portsmouth now owned and occupied by the Rev. Mr. Burroughs was formerly the mansion
of Governor Langdon. It contains noble and spacious rooms. The Doctor's library is a fine apartment,
extending, I think, the whole breadth of the house, forty or fifty feet, with elaborate cornices,
a carved fireplace, and other antiquated magnificences. It was, I suppose, the reception-room,
and occasionally the dining-hall. The opposite parlor is likewise large, and finished in excellent
style, the mantelpiece being really a fine architectural specimen.... Doctor Burroughs is a
scholar, rejoicing in the possession of an old, illuminated missal, which he showed us, adorned
with brilliant miniatures and other pictures by some monkish hand. It was given him by a commodore
in the navy, who picked it up in Italy, without knowing what it was, nor could the learned
professors of at least one college inform him, until he finally offered it to Dr. Burroughs,
on condition that he should tell him what it was. We likewise saw a copy of the famous "Breeches
Bible," and other knicknacks and curiosities which people have taken pleasure in giving to
one who appreciated such things, and whose kindly disposition makes it a happiness to oblige
him. His house has entertained famous guests in the time of the old Governor,--among them Louis
Philippe, Talleyrand, Lafayette, and Washington, all of whom occupied successively the same
chamber; besides, no doubt, a host of less world-wide distinguished persons.

       *       *       *       *       *

A battery of thirty-two pound periods.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the eyes of a young child or other innocent person, the image of a cherub or an angel to
be seen peeping out,--in those of a vicious person, a devil.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 11. In Boston, a man passing along Colonnade Row, grinding a barrel-organ, and attended
by a monkey, dressed in frock and pantaloons, and with a tremendously thick tail appearing
behind. While his master played on the organ, the monkey kept pulling off his hat, bowing and
scraping to the spectators, round about,--sometimes, too, making a direct application to an
individual,--by all this dumb show, beseeching them to remunerate the organ-player. Whenever
a coin was thrown on the ground, the monkey picked it up, clambered on his master's shoulder,
and gave it into his keeping, then descended, and repeated his pantomimic entreaties for more.
His little, old, ugly, wrinkled face had an earnestness that looked just as if it came from
the love of money deep within his soul. He peered round, searching for filthy lucre on all
sides. With his tail and all, he might be taken for the Mammon of copper coin,--a symbol of
covetousness of small gains,--the lowest form of the love of money.

Baby was with us, holding by my forefinger, and walking decorously along the pavement. She
stopped to contemplate the monkey, and after a while, shocked by his horrible ugliness, began
to cry.

       *       *       *       *       *

A disquisition or a discussion between two or more persons, on the manner in which the Wandering
Jew has spent his life. One period, perhaps, trying over and over again to grasp domestic happiness;
then a soldier, then a statesman, &c., at last realizing some truth.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most graceful way in which a man can signify that he feels that he is growing old, and
acquiesces in it, is by adhering to the fashion of dress which chances to be in vogue when
the conviction comes upon him. Thus, in a few years, he will find himself quietly apart from
the crowd of young men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our most intimate friend is not he to whom we show the worst, but the best of our nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing comes amiss to Nature,--all is fish that comes to her net. If there be a living form
of perfect beauty, instinct with soul,--why, it is all very well, and suits Nature well enough.
But she would just as lief have that beautiful, soul-illumined body for worms' meat and earth's
manure!

       *       *       *       *       *

Instances of two ladies, who vowed never again to see the light of the sun, on account of disappointments
in love. Each of them kept her vow, living thenceforth, and dying after many years, in apartments
closely shut up, and lighted by candles. One appears to have lived in total darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The infirmities that come with old age may be the interest on the debt of nature, which should
have been more seasonably paid. Often the interest will be a heavier payment than the principal.

       *       *       *       *       *

By a Lord of the Admiralty, (in a speech in Parliament during our Revolution,) the number of
American sailors employed in the British navy previous to the Revolution was estimated at eighteen
thousand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some men have no right to perform great deeds, or think high thoughts; and when they do so,
it is a kind of humbug. They had better keep within their own propriety.

       *       *       *       *       *

In England, in 1761, a man and his wife, formerly in good circumstances, died very poor, and
were buried at the expense of the parish. This coming to the ears of the friends of their better
days, they had the corpses taken out of the ground and buried in a more genteel manner!

       *       *       *       *       *

In the "Annual Register," Vol. IV., for 1761, there is a letter from Cromwell to Fleetwood,
dated August 22, 1653, which Carlyle appears not to have given. Also one, without date, to
the Speaker of the House of Commons, narrating the taking of Basing House.

       *       *       *       *       *

Recently, in an old house which has been taken down at the corner of Bulfinch Street and Bowdoin
Square, a perfect and full-grown skeleton was discovered, concealed between the ceiling and
the floor of a room in the upper story. Another skeleton was not long since found in similar
circumstances.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a garden, a pool of perfectly transparent water, the bed of which should be paved with marble,
or perhaps with mosaic work in images and various figures, which through the clear water would
look wondrously beautiful.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 20, 1847.--A walk in a warm and pleasant afternoon to Browne's Hill, not uncommonly
called Browne's Folly, from the mansion which one of that family, before the Revolution, erected
on its summit. (On October 14, 1837, I recorded a walk thither.) In a line with the length
of the ridge, the ascent is gradual and easy, but straight up the sides it is steep. There
is a large and well-kept orchard at the foot, through which I passed, gradually ascending;
then, surmounting a stone wall, beneath chestnut-trees which had thrown their dry leaves down,
I climbed the remainder of the hill. There were still the frequent barberry-bushes; and the
wood-wax has begun to tuft itself over the sides and summit, which seem to be devoted to pasture.
On the very highest part are still the traces of the foundation of the old mansion. The hall
had a gallery running round it beneath the ceiling, and was a famous place for dancing. The
house stood, I believe, till some years subsequent to the Revolution, and was then removed
in three portions, each of which became a house somewhere on the plain, and perhaps they are
standing now. The proprietor, being a royalist, became an exile when the Revolution broke out,
and I suppose died abroad. I know not whether the house was intended as a permanent family-residence
or merely as a pleasure-place for the summer; but from its extent I should conceive the former
to have been its purpose. Be that as it may, it has perpetuated an imputation of folly upon
the poor man who erected it, which still keeps his memory disagreeably alive after a hundred
years. The house must have made a splendid appearance for many miles around; and the glare
of the old-fashioned festivities would be visible, doubtless, in the streets of Salem, when
he illuminated his windows to celebrate a king's birthday, or some other loyal occasion. The
barberry-bushes, clustering within the cellars, offer the harsh acidity of their fruit to-day,
instead of the ripe wines which used to be stored there.

Descending the hill, I entered a green, seldom-trodden lane, which runs along at a hundred
yards or two from its base, and parallel with its ridge. It was overshadowed by chestnut-trees,
and bordered with the prevalent barberry-bush, and between ran the track,--the beaten path
of the horses' feet, and the even way of either wheel, with green strips between. It was a
very lonely lane, and very pleasant in the warm, declining sun; and, following it a third of
a mile, I came to a place that was familiar to me when I was a child, as the residence of a
country cousin whom I used to be brought to see. There was his old house still standing, but
deserted, with all the windows boarded up, and the door likewise, and the chimneys removed,--a
most desolate-looking place. A young dog came barking towards me as I approached,--barking,
but frisking, between play and watchfulness. Within fifty yards of the old house, farther back
from the road, stands a stone house, of some dozen or twenty years' endurance,--an ugly affair,
so plain is it,--which was built by the old man in his latter days. The well of the old house,
out of which I have often drunk, and over the curb of which I have peeped to see my own boy-visage
closing the far vista below, seems to be still in use for the new edifice. Passing on a little
farther, I came to a brook, which, I remember, the old man's son and I dammed up, so that it
almost overflowed the road. The stream has strangely shrunken now; it is a mere ditch, indeed,
and almost a dry one. Going a little farther, I came to a graveyard by the roadside,--not apparently
a public graveyard, but the resting-place of a family or two, with half a dozen gravestones.
On two marble stones, standing side by side, I read the names of Benjamin Foster and Anstiss
Foster, the people whom I used to be brought to visit. He had died in 1824, aged seventy-five;
she in 1837, aged seventy.

       *       *       *       *       *

A young woman in England, poisoned by an East Indian barbed dart, which her brother had brought
home as a curiosity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The old house on Browne's Hill was removed from the summit to the plain, at a short distance
from the foot of the hill. Colonel Putnam, of the Custom-House, recollects it there, standing
unoccupied, but with the furniture still in it. It seems to have been accessible to all who
wished to enter. It was at that time under the care of Richard Derby, an ancestor of the present
Derbys, who had a claim to the property through his wife, who was a Browne. The owner of the
house had fled during the Revolution, and Richard Derby seems to have held the estate as it
was when the refugee left it, in expectation of his eventual return. There was one closet in
the house which everybody was afraid to open, it being supposed that the Devil was in it. One
day, above fifty years ago, or threescore it may have been, Putnam and other boys were playing
in the house, and took it into their heads to peep into this closet. It was locked, but Putnam
pried open the door, with great difficulty and much tremor. At last it flew open, and out fell
a great pile of family portraits, faces of gentlemen in wigs, and ladies in quaint head-dresses,
displaying themselves on the floor, startling the urchins out of their wits. They all fled,
but returned after a while, piled up the pictures again, and nailed up the door of the closet.

The house, according to the same authority, was not tenanted after the earthquake of 1775;
at least, it was removed from the summit of the hill on that occasion, it having been greatly
shaken by the earthquake.

The house formerly inhabited by Rev. Mr. Paris, and in which the witchcraft business of 1692
had its origin, is still standing in the north parish of Danvers. It has been long since removed
from its original site. The workmen at first found great difficulty in removing it; and an
old man assured them that the house was still under the influence of the Devil, and would remain
so unless they took off the roof. Finally they did take off the roof, and then succeeded in
moving the house. Putnam was personally cognizant of this fact.

       *       *       *       *       *

November 17.--A story of the effects of revenge in diabolizing him who indulges in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Committee of Vigilance, instituted to promote the discovery of old Mr. White's murderers,--good
as the machinery of a sketch or story.

       *       *       *       *       *

A story of the life, domestic and external, of a family of birds in a marten-house, for children.

       *       *       *       *       *

The people believed that John Hancock's uncle had bought an immense diamond at a low price,
and sold it for its value,--he having grown rich with a rapidity inexplicable to them. The
fact was, however, according to Hutchinson, that he made his fortune by smuggling tea in molasses
hogsheads from St. Eustatia.

       *       *       *       *       *

An old French Governor of Acadie, the predecessor of D'Aulnay, paid for some merchandise, which
he bought of the captain of an English vessel, with six or seven hundred buttons of massive
gold, taken from one of his suits. (Mass. Hist. Coll.)

       *       *       *       *       *

An apparition haunts the front yard. I have often, while sitting in the parlor, in the daytime,
had a perception that somebody was passing the windows; but, looking towards them, nobody is
there. The appearance is never observable when looking directly towards the window, but only
by such a sidelong or indirect glance as one gets while reading, or when intent on something
else. But I know not how many times I have raised my head or turned with the certainty that
somebody were passing. The other day I found that my wife was equally aware of the spectacle,
and that, as likewise agrees with my own observation, it always appears to be entering the
yard from the street, never going out.

       *       *       *       *       *

The immortal flowers,--a child's story.

       *       *       *       *       *

"He looked as if he had been standing up thirty years against a northeast storm." Description
of an old mate of a vessel, by Pike.

       *       *       *       *       *

Death possesses a good deal of real estate, namely, the graveyards in every town. Of late years,
too, he has pleasure-grounds, as at Mount Auburn and elsewhere.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corwin is going to Lynn; Oliver proposes to walk thither with him. "No," says Corwin, "I don't
want you. You take great, long steps; or, if you take short ones, 'tis all hypocrisy. And,
besides, you keep humming all the time."

       *       *       *       *       *

May 18, 1848.--Decay of the year has already commenced. I saw a dandelion gone to seed, this
afternoon, in the Great Pasture.

       *       *       *       *       *

Words, so innocent and powerless as they are, as standing in a dictionary, how potent for good
and evil they become, in the hands of one who knows how to combine them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain B---- tells a story of an immense turtle which he saw at sea, on a voyage to Batavia,--so
long, that the look-out at the mast-head mistook it for a rock. The ship passed close to it,
and it was apparently longer than the long-boat, "with a head bigger than any dog's head you
ever see," and great prickles on his back a foot long. Arriving at Batavia, he told the story,
and an old pilot exclaimed, "What! have you seen Bellysore Tom?" It seems that the pilots had
been acquainted with this turtle as many as twelve years, and always found him in the same
latitude. They never did him any injury, but were accustomed to throw him pieces of meat, which
he received in good part, so that there was a mutual friendship between him and the pilots.
Old Mr. L----, in confirmation of the story, asserted that he had often heard other shipmasters
speak of the same, monster; but he being a notorious liar, and Captain B---- an unconscionable
spinner of long yarns and travellers' tales, the evidence is by no means perfect. The pilots
estimated his length at not less than twenty feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Grey Property Case. Mrs. Grey and her child three years old were carried off by the Indians
in 1756 from the Tuscarora valley in Pennsylvania. The father, going on a campaign in search
of them, was exhausted by fatigue, and came home only to die, bequeathing half his property
to his child, if living. The mother, his wife, being redeemed, and there being several children
who had been captive to the Indians to be seen at Philadelphia, went thither to see and recognize
her little three years' old daughter, from whom, in her captivity, she had been separated.
Her child proved not to be among the little captives; but, in order to get possession of her
husband's property, she claimed another child, of about the same age. This child grew up gross,
ugly, awkward, a "big, black, uncomely Dutch lump, not to be compared to the beautiful Fanny
Grey," and moreover turned out morally bad. The real daughter was said to have been married,
and settled in New York, "a fine woman, with a fair house and fair children." At all events,
she was never recovered by her relatives, and her existence seems to have been doubtful. In
1789, the heirs of John Grey, the father, became aware that the claimed and recovered child
was not the child that had been lost. They commenced a lawsuit for the recovery of John Grey's
property, consisting of a farm of three or four hundred acres. This lawsuit lasted till 1834,
when it was decided against the identity of the recovered child. (Sherman Day's Hist. Coll.
of Penn.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Bethuel Vincent, carried by the Indians to Canada, being then recently married. A few years
after, a rough-looking man fell in with a sleighing party at a tavern, and inquired if they
knew anything of Mrs. Vincent. She was pointed out to him. He gave her news of her husband,
and, joining the sleighing party, began to grow familiar with Mrs. Vincent, and wished to take
her upon his lap. She resisted,--but behold! the rough-looking stranger was her long-lost husband.
There are good points in this story. (Ibid.)

       *       *       *       *       *

Among the survivors of a wreck are two bitter enemies. The parties, having remained many days
without food, cast lots to see who shall be killed as food for the rest. The lot falls on one
of the enemies. The other may literally eat his heart!

       *       *       *       *       *

October 13.--During this moon, I have two or three evenings sat for some time in our dining-room
without light except from the coal fire and the moon. There are all the familiar things, every
chair, the tables, the couch, the bookcase, all that we are accustomed to see in the daytime;
but now it seems as if we were remembering them through a lapse of years, rather than seeing
them with the immediate eye. A child's shoe, the doll, sitting in her little wicker-carriage,
all objects that have been used or played with during the day, though still as familiar as
ever, are invested with something like strangeness and remoteness. I cannot in any measure
express it. Then the somewhat dim coal fire throws its unobtrusive tinge through the room,--a
faint ruddiness upon the wall,--which has a not unpleasant effect in taking from the colder
spirituality of the moonbeams. Between both these lights such a medium is created that the
room seems just fit for the ghosts of persons very dear, who have lived in the room with us,
to glide noiselessly in and sit quietly down, without affrighting us. It would be like a matter
of course to look round and find some familiar form in one of the chairs. If one of the white
curtains happen to be drawn before the windows, the moonlight makes a delicate tracery with
the branches of the trees, the leaves somewhat thinned by the progress of autumn, but still
pretty abundant. It is strange how utterly I have failed to give anything of the effect of
moonlight in a room.

The firelight diffuses a mild, heart-warm influence through the parlor, but is scarcely visible,
unless you particularly look for it; and then you become conscious of a faint tinge upon the
ceiling, of a reflected gleam from the mahogany furniture, and, if your eyes happen to fall
on the looking-glass, deep within it you perceive the glow of the burning anthracite. I hate
to leave such a scene; and when retiring to bed, after closing the door, I reopen it again
and again, to peep back at the warm, cheerful, solemn repose, the white light, the faint ruddiness,
the dimness,--all like a vision, and which makes me feel as if I were in a conscious dream.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first manufacture of the kind of candy called Gibraltar rock, for a child's story; to be
told in a romantic, mystic, marvellous style.

       *       *       *       *       *

An angel comes from heaven, commissioned to gather up, put into a basket, and carry away everything
good that is not improved by mankind, for whose benefit it was intended. The angel distributes
these good things where they will be appreciated.

       *       *       *       *       *

Annals of a kitchen.

       *       *       *       *       *

A benevolent person going about the world and endeavoring to do good to everybody; in pursuance
of which object, for instance, he gives, a pair of spectacles to a blind man, and does all
such ill-suited things.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beautiful positions of statues to one intellectually blind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little gnomes, dwelling in hollow teeth. They find a tooth that has been plugged with gold,
and it serves them as a gold mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wizard, Michael Scott, used to give a feast to his friends, the dishes of which were brought
from the kitchens of various princes in Europe, by devils at his command. "Now we will try
a dish from the King of France's kitchen," etc. A modern sketch might take a hint from this,
and the dishes be brought from various restaurants.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Pixilated,"--a Marblehead word, meaning bewildered, wild about any matter. Probably derived
from Pixy, a fairy.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a child's story,--imagine all sorts of wonderful playthings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Walter Raleigh, Sir Thomas More, Algernon Sidney, or some other great man, on the eve of
execution, to make reflections on his own head,--considering and addressing it in a looking-glass.

       *       *       *       *       *

March 16, 1849.--J---- ... speaking of little B. P----: "I will hug him, so that not any storm
can come to him."

       *       *       *       *       *

A story, the principal personage of which shall seem always on the point of entering upon the
scene, but never shall appear.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the "New Statistical Account of Scotland," (Vol. I.,) it is stated that a person had observed,
in his own dairy, that the milk of several cows, when mixed together and churned, produced
much less butter proportionably than the milk of a single cow; and that the greater the number
of cows which contributed their milk, the smaller was the comparative product. Hence, this
person was accustomed to have the milk of each cow churned separately.

       *       *       *       *       *

A modern magician to make the semblance of a human being, with two laths for legs, a pumpkin
for a head, etc., of the rudest and most meagre materials. Then a tailor helps him to finish
his work, and transforms this scarecrow into quite a fashionable figure. At the end of the
story, after deceiving the world for a long time, the spell should be broken, and the gray
dandy be discovered to be nothing but a suit of clothes, with a few sticks inside of them.
All through his seeming existence as a human being there shall be some characteristics, some
tokens, that to the man of close observation and insight betray him to be a thing of mere talk
and clothes, without heart, soul, or intellect. And so this wretched old creature shall become
the symbol of a large class.

       *       *       *       *       *

The golden sands that may sometimes be gathered (always, perhaps, if we know how to seek for
them) along the dry bed of a torrent adown which passion and feeling have foamed, and passed
away. It is good, therefore, in mature life, to trace back such torrents to their source.

       *       *       *       *       *

The same children who make the little snow image shall plant dry sticks, etc., and they shall
take root and grow in mortal flowers, etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

Monday, September 17.--Set out on a journey to Temple, N.H., with E.F. M----, to visit his
father. Started by way of Boston, in the half past ten train, and took the Lowell and Nashua
Railroad at twelve, as far as Danforth's Corner, about fifty miles, and thence in stage-coach
to Milford, four miles farther, and in a light wagon to Temple, perhaps twelve miles farther.
During the latter drive, the road gradually ascended, with tracts of forest land alongside,
and latterly a brook, which we followed for several miles, and finally found it flowing through
General M----'s farm. The house is an old country dwelling, in good condition, standing beside
the road, in a valley surrounded by a wide amphitheatre of high hills. There is a good deal
of copse and forest on the estate, high hills of pasture land, old, cultivated fields, and
all such pleasant matters. The General sat in an easy-chair in the common room of the family,
looking better than when in Salem, with an air of quiet, vegetative enjoyment about him, scarcely
alive to outward objects. He did his best to express a hospitable pleasure at seeing me; but
did not succeed, so that I could distinguish his words. He loves to sit amidst the bustle of
his family, and is dimly amused by what is going forward; is pleased, also, to look out of
the open window and see the poultry--a guinea-hen, turkeys, a peacock, a tame deer, etc.--which
feed there. His mind sometimes wanders, and he hardly knows where he is; will not be convinced
that he is anywhere but at Salem, until they drag his chair to a window from which he can see
a great elm-tree of which he is very fond, standing in front of the house. Then he acknowledges
that he must be at the farm, because, he says, they never could have transplanted that tree.
He is pleased with flowers, which they bring him,--a kind-hearted old man. The other day a
live partridge was sent him, and he ordered it to be let go, because he would not suffer a
life to be taken to supply him with a single meal. This tenderness has always been characteristic
of the old soldier. His birthplace was within a few miles of this spot,--the son and descendant
of husbandmen,--and character and fortune together have made him a man of history.

This is a most hospitable family, and they live in a style of plain abundance, rural, but with
traits of more refined modes. Many domestics, both for farm and household work. Two unmarried
daughters; an old maiden aunt; an elderly lady, Mrs. C. of Newburyport, visiting; a young girl
of fifteen, a connection of the family, also visiting, and now confined to her chamber by illness.
Ney, a spaniel of easy and affable address, is a prominent personage, and generally lies in
the parlor or sits beside the General's chair; always ready, too, to walk out with anybody
so inclined. Flora, a little black pony, is another four-footed favorite. In the warm weather,
the family dine in a large room on one side of the house, rough and rustic looking, with rude
beams overhead. There were evergreens hanging on the walls, and the figures 1776, also in evergreen,
and a national flag suspended in one corner,--the blue being made out of old homespun garments,
the red stripes out of some of the General's flannel wrappings, and the eagle copied from the
figure on a half-dollar,--all being the handiwork of the ladies, on occasion of the last Fourth
of July. It is quite a pleasant dining-hall; and while we were eating fruit, the deer, which
is of a small and peculiar breed from the South, came and thrust its head into the open window,
looking at us with beautiful and intelligent eyes. It had smelt the fruit, and wished to put
in its claim for a share.

Tuesday morning, before breakfast, E---- and I drove three or four miles, to the summit of
an intervening ridge, from which we had a wide prospect of hill and dale, with Monadnock in
the midst. It was a good sight, although the atmosphere did not give the hills that aspect
of bulk and boldness which it sometimes does. This part of the country is but thinly inhabited,
and the dwellings are generally small. It is said that, in the town of Temple, there are more
old cellars, where dwellings have formerly stood, than there are houses now inhabited. The
town is not far from a hundred years old, but contains now only five or six hundred inhabitants.
The enterprising young men emigrate elsewhere, leaving only the least energetic portions to
carry on business at home. There appear to be but few improvements, the cultivated fields being
of old date, smooth with long cultivation. Here and there, however, a tract newly burned over,
or a few acres with the stumps still extant. The farm-houses all looked very lonesome and deserted
to-day, the inhabitants having gone to the regimental muster at New Ipswich.

As we drove home, E---- told a story of a child who was lost, seventy or eighty years ago,
among the woods and hills. He was about five years old, and had gone with some work-people
to a clearing in the forest, where there was a rye-field, at a considerable distance from the
farm-house. Getting tired, he started for home alone, but did not arrive. They made what search
for him they could that night, and the next day the whole town turned out, but without success.
The day following, many people from the neighboring towns took up the search, and on this day,
I believe, they found the child's shoes and stockings, but nothing else. After a while, they
gave up the search in despair; but for a long time, a fortnight or three weeks or more, his
mother fancied that she heard the boy's voice in the night, crying, "Father! father!" One of
his little sisters also heard this voice; but people supposed that the sounds must be those
of some wild animal. No more search was made, and the boy never was found.

But it is not known whether it was the next autumn, or a year or two after, some hunters came
upon traces of the child's wanderings among the hills, in a different direction from the previous
search, and farther than it was supposed he could have gone. They found some little houses,
such as children build of twigs and sticks of wood, and these the little fellow had probably
built for amusement in his lonesome hours. Nothing, it seems to me, was ever more strangely
touching than this incident,--his finding time for childish play, while wandering to his death
in these desolate woods,--and then pursuing his way again, till at last he lay down to die
on the dark mountain-side. Finally, on a hill which E---- pointed out to me, they found a portion
of the child's hair adhering to the overthrown trunk of a tree; and this is all that was ever
found of him. But it was supposed that the child had subsisted, perhaps for weeks, on the berries
and other sustenance such as a forest-child knew how to find in the woods. I forgot to say,
above, that a piece of birch or other bark was found, which he appeared to have gnawed. It
was thought that the cry of "Father! father!" which the mother and little sister heard in the
night-time, was really the little fellow's voice, then within hearing of his home; but he wandered
away again, and at last sank down, and Death found him and carried him up to God. His bones
were never found; and it was thought that the foxes or other wild animals had taken his little
corpse, and scattered the bones, and that, dragging the body along, one lock of his flaxen
hair had adhered to a tree.

I asked a physician whether it were possible that a child could live so long in the woods;
and he thought it was, and said that children often show themselves more tenacious of life
than grown people, and live longer in a famine. This is to me a very affecting story; and it
seems to be felt as such by the people of the country. The little boy's parents, and his brothers
and sisters, who probably lived to maturity or old age, are all forgotten; but he lives in
tradition, and still causes wet eyes to strangers, as he did to me.

To account for the singularity of his not having been found by such numbers as took up the
search, it is suggested that he was perhaps frightened, and perhaps concealed himself when
he heard the noise of people making their way through the forest, people being apt to do so,
when they get mazed with wandering in the woods. But it is strange that old hunters, with dogs,
should have failed to find him. However, there is the fact.

After breakfast (a broiled chicken and excellent coffee) I walked out by myself. The brook
would be a beautiful plaything for my children, and I wish I had such a one for them. As I
looked down into it from the bridge, I saw little fish, minnows, small chubs, and perch sporting
about and rising eagerly to anything that was thrown in. Returning towards the house, I encountered
an ass, who seemed glad to see me, in its donkeyish way. Afterwards, E---- and I took a ramble
among some of his old haunts, which took up pretty much all the remainder of the forenoon.
After dinner we drove to New Ipswich, expecting to see the closing scenes of the muster, but
found the regiment dismissed, and the spectators taking their departure. We visited a cousin
of E----, and took tea; borrowed two great-coats (it having grown from summer to autumn very
rapidly since nightfall), and drove home, six miles or thereabouts. A new moon and the long
twilight gleamed over the first portion of our drive, and then the northern lights kindled
up and shot flashes towards the zenith as we drove along, up hill and down dale, and most of
the way through dense woods.

The next morning, after breakfast, we got into our wagon and returned to Milford, thence by
stage to Danforth's Corner, thence to Boston by rail. Nothing noteworthy occurred, except that
we called on Mr. Atherton and lady at Nashua. We reached Boston at three o'clock. I visited
the Town and Country Club, and read the papers and journals, took the three quarters past five
train and reached home at half past six.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the new statistical account of Scotland, in the volume about the Hebrides, it is stated
that a child was born, and lived to the age of, I think, two years, with an eye in the back
of its head, in addition to the usual complement in front. It could evidently see with this
eye; for when its cap was drawn down over it, it would thrust it upward.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 27.--Mrs.---- gave a black woman six dollars for a dress of pine-apple cloth, sixteen
yards, perhaps worth ten times as much,--the owner being ignorant of the value.

       *       *       *       *       *

To inherit a great fortune.--To inherit a great misfortune.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reflections in a mud-puddle;--they might be pictures of life in a mean street of a city.

       *       *       *       *       *

February 16, 1850.--The sunbeam that comes through a round hole in the shutter of a darkened
room, where a dead man sits in solitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hoary periwig of a dandelion gone to seed. Afternoon drove with him to Pittsfield, and
called on Dr. Holmes. September 1st, he called with Mrs. Lowell in the forenoon, on their way
to Stockbridge or Lebanon, to meet Miss Bremer.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 28.--On a walk yesterday forenoon, my wife and children gathered Houstonias. Before
night there was snow, mingled with rain. The trees are now generally bare.

       *       *       *       *       *

December 1.--I saw a dandelion in bloom near the lake, in a pasture by the brookside. At night,
dreamed of seeing Pike.

       *       *       *       *       *

KATHARINE MORNE.

PART II.

CHAPTER IV.

Soon after Fanny's funeral, Miss Mehitable told me she had found out who the lady was that
wished for my painting at the fair. Her niece had pointed her out as she drove by in a barouche;
and it was Miss Dudley.

My second copy was begun in the last fortnight of Fanny's life, as she slept and I sat beside
her. I had not then had time, nor since had heart, to go on with it. But now, seeing an opportunity
to do something more to fulfil her wishes and to "do anything for Miss Dudley," I took up my
task again, and quickly finished it. Then, still unsatisfied, I roamed through the woods, and
along the shore, to gather specimens of the native plants, insects, and shells that seemed
to me most like the foreign ones that I had copied, and grouped and painted and framed them
like the first. The Doctor left both for me at Miss Dudley's gate, with this inscription on
the envelope: "A little offering of great gratitude, from a sister of Fanny Morne." I suppose,
by the way, this is one source of the satisfaction that some real mourners find in wearing
mourning, as they say, "for the dead,"--a vague longing, like mine, after they have passed
beyond human care, to do or sacrifice still something more for them.

After that, there seemed to be nothing more that I could do for Fanny, nor anything that, for
myself, I cared to do. From habit only, I employed myself. Julia, as she begged that I would
call her, had a large basket of baby-clothes cut out. At that I seated myself after breakfast;
and at that I often worked till bedtime, like a machine,--startled sometimes from my revery,
indeed, by seeing how much was done, but saying nothing, hearing little, and shedding not a tear.

Julia would have remonstrated; but the Doctor said to her: "Let her alone for the present,
my dear; she has had a great shock. Trust to nature. This cannot last long with a girl like
Katy. It is half of it over-fatigue, carried on from her school-keeping to add to the present
account." To me he said: "Katy, you may sew, if you like, but not in-doors, I will carry your
basket out for you into the arbor; and in the afternoon I am going to take you to ride in the
woods."

Our past selves are often a riddle that our present selves cannot read; but I suspect the real
state of the case was, partly that, as the Doctor believed, I was for the time being exhausted
in body and stunned in mind, and partly that, in those young, impetuous days, grief was such
an all-convulsing passion with me, when I yielded to it, that to the utmost of my strength
I resisted it at the outset, and seldom dared suffer myself to suffer at all. But, as he also
believed, "this could not last long"; and it did not.

One afternoon, as I sewed in the arbor, a sweet little girl, who had been in Fanny's class
in her Sunday school, stole into the garden and up to me, looked wistfully into my face as
if seeking some likeness there, kissed my cheek timidly, laid a large nosegay of delicate flowers
upon my knee, and crept away as gently as she came. The flowers were all white; and I saw at
once that they were meant for Fanny's grave. I might go there for the first time now, as well
as at any other time. The Doctor and his wife were out together, and no one was at home to
question me.

Fanny had been laid, I need scarcely say, just where she wished. My guardian had driven me
there early one morning to point out the place; and we found the withered clovers in the grass.
It had rained often since. The swollen turf was nearly healed. I untied the flowers, and slowly,
and with minute precision, arranged them in a cross above her breast. At last, when there was
no blossom more to add or alter, I sat down again in my solitude where I sat with her so lately,
with the same leaves fluttering on the same trees, the same grass waving on the same graves,
and her beneath instead of upon it.

At first I could not think,--I could only cry. For now at length I had to cry; and cry I did,
in a tornado and deluge of grief that by degrees swept and washed away the accumulated vapors
from my mind, and brought it to a clearer, healthier calm. I believe God in His mercy has appointed
that those who are capable of the strongest, shall not in general be capable of the longest
anguish. At least, I am sure that it is so, not only with myself, but with one better and dearer
than myself; so that the experience of life has taught me to see in the sharpest of pangs the
happiest augury of their brevity.

Thus it could not have been very long before I was able to raise my head, and wipe my eyes,
and look once more upon my two dear graves. The setting sun glowed over them. They looked soft
and bright. From one of them the echo of an angel's voice seemed still to say, "Here, by mamma,
is where I like to lie"; from both in unison I heard, "It is good and brave to look things
in the face and on all sides; but then among the sides, never forget the bright side, little Katy."

Could I refuse? I looked for the bright side. It was not far to seek. In the first place, the
worst was over. Never again could I lose what I had lost, nor--so at least I thought then--could
I feel what I had felt. Secondly, my sorrow was only mine, and no one's else. Those whom I
loved were happy, every one of them;--mamma and Fanny,--I could not doubt it,--happier far
than I ever could have made them, even if I had always tried as hard as I did after they began
to leave me,--safer than they could ever have been in this world, and safe forever; and Jim,--I
would not begin now to think about him again, but just so much I must,--he was happy with Emma.
Even thus much brought a fresh gush of tears, though not for him,--I could still truly say
that I had never shed one for him, and that was some comfort to my pride at least;--but for
Fanny; because I had sometimes thought that, when she was well and I had time to think of anything
besides her, if I ever did tell anybody of the mistake and trouble I had fallen into, I would
tell her,--and now, however much I might need advice and assistance, that could never be. My
guardian and his wife were happy in each other, and would be happier still after I roused myself,
as I must and ought, and ceased to sadden their home. The world in which I still must live
was, whatever people might say of it, not all sin, sickness, or sorrow. Even where I sat, in
one of those spots which most persons accounted the dreariest in it, I could hear the laughter
of light-hearted children at their play, the soft lowing of cattle grazing in the pleasant
fields, and shouts of strong men at their wholesome, useful work. I knew there must be sickness,
sin, and sorrow in it; but could not I do some little to help them, with my free hands and
the health and strength which were almost always mine? Very good I was not myself, but I had
been watchfully brought up in an innocent home; there was no crime upon my conscience, and,
even as I cast a rueful glance upon its blemishes, I heard a well-remembered voice say from
a grave once more: "Have patience with my little daughter. Some of the richest fruits and souls
are not the first to ripen. The chief thing that she wants is time to mellow."

And one of the brightest points in all the bright side was, that, in living so constantly through
her illness with Fanny, who lived with God, I had been perforce brought nearer to Him, and
therefore naturally learned to dread Him less and love Him more than I had done; so that I
hoped, as I know my mother did, that the sunshine of His grace would help to mellow me.

Another bright point was, that I need not go back to Greenville. The present mistress was glad
to keep the school, and the committee willing to keep her.

My desultory thoughts still growing calmer, I began to form plans for my way of living, as
I used to do aloud, when I could talk them over with my mother and Fanny. I did not plan anything
great, however, because I was conscious of no great powers.--I already, I think, began to divine
the truth of what a wise woman afterwards said to me, "Your own nature must settle your work,"
or rather of what she implied, though she did not say it: In laying out your work, you should
do your best to take the diagonal between your nature and your circumstances.--But I resolved,
such as I was, to try to make the most of myself in every way, for myself, my neighbors, and
my God.

I was to stay at my guardian's for the present. He forbade my trying to teach again, for some
months at least. It was my duty, as well as my pleasure, to obey him. In the mean time, I could
prepare myself to teach better when I began again. I would draw and paint at odd times. Two
hours a day I would try to divide between history and the English classic poets, of both of
which I knew sadly little. Julia often drove out with her husband; and then I could study by
myself. When she was at home, if I could not always chat with her as formerly, I could read
to her in French, which she liked to hear; and that would be much more sociable and cheerful
for her than my sitting mute. I would now exert myself to walk out every day for exercise,
so that there would be no reason for her giving up her place in the Doctor's chaise to me.
I blushed to think how often I had suffered myself to be foisted into it by her already. By
my walks, I would earn leave to sit with her in-doors; and then I could save her many steps
and little household cares. Then what should I do for her husband? Sing to him in the evening,
and begin, if he liked it, to-night. It might be a little hard the first time; but if so, there
was all the more reason for having the first time over. There was no need of my choosing sad
songs, or any that Fanny was fond of.

But it was growing late. They would be anxious. I must get up and go home. Go home!--without
my home-mates?--leave them here?--with no kiss,--no good-night? I stood up, and sat down again.
The blinding, choking passion, that had seemed over, swelled up into my eyes and throat once
more. O that lonely, empty life! Must I go back to it? How long would it last? This was my
only real home. When might I come here to sleep?

In an instant it would have been all over again with my hardly-won calm; but in that instant
a white and gray fluttering between the green graves caught my tear-blurred sight. I thought
it that of a living dove, but, going nearer, found only a piece of torn newspaper, which had
been wrapped around the stems of the flowers, playing in the wind; and on it my attention was
caught by these quaint and pithy lines, printed in one corner in double columns:--

    "THE CONDITIONS.

    "Sad soul, long harboring fears and woes
      Within a haunted breast.
    Haste but to meet your lowly Lord,
      And he shall give you rest.

    "Into his commonwealth alike
      Are ills and blessings thrown.
    Bear you your neighbors' loads; and

           *       *       *       *       *

    "Yield only up His price, your heart,
      Into God's loving hold,--
    He turns with heavenly alchemy
      Your lead of life to gold.

    "Some needful pangs endure in peace,
      Nor yet for freedom pant,--
    He cuts the bane you cleave to off,
      Then ..."

The rest was torn away. "'And,'" repeated I, impatiently,--"'Then'! 'And--then'--what?" There
was no answer, or at least I heard none; but the verses, so far as they went, struck my excited
fancy as a kind of preternatural confirmation of the faint outline of life and duty which I
had been sketching. I marked the date of the day upon the white margin with my pencil, and
took the paper with me as a memento of the time and place, trimmed its torn edges carefully,
and laid it in Fanny's little Bible.

CHAPTER V.

The next morning, at breakfast, Dr. Physick said: "You did me a good office, Katy, by singing
me to sleepiness last night. I was as tired as a dog,--no, as a whole pack of Esquimaux dogs,--and,
instead of lying awake and saying to myself, every time I turned over, 'What in this wide world
am I ever going to do with that poor little Nelly Fader?' I only repeated, whenever I came
to myself a little, 'Nelly Bligh shuts her eye when she goes to sleep'; and then I followed
her example."

"I only wish," said I, "that there was any good office beside that I could do you."

"Well, now I think of it, there is one that I should be very much obliged to you to do, to
me and Nelly Fader besides. I've got to hurry off in the direction opposite to her Uncle Wardour's;
and you talked of walking. Take this paper. Empty it into a wine-bottle. Fill it up with spring-water.
Cork it. Gum these directions on it. Take them to Nelly. Read them to her, and make her understand
them if you can, and follow them, which I can't. I happen to have a better sample of the drug
than is often in the market; and she may as well have the benefit of it. Her aunt's a goose,
and she's a baby. But, as she's likely to be a suffering baby for some time to come, we must
try to have patience, and take extra pains with her."

"Is she going to die?" asked I, anxiously.

"No, no! I've no idea she is. No such good luck, poor little victim! 'Only nervous,' as people
say. I can't find out that there's much else the matter. I utterly hate these cases. She ought
to be under the care of a sensible woman; and if there only was such a one in the profession,
I'd guarantee her her hands full of patients out of my practice alone."

"A female physician!" cried I, in horror.

"O Phil! what will you say next?" exclaimed his wife, laughing.

"Well, only wait till you're a male physician, then, and see," returned he, jumping into his
chaise, and relieving his own nerves with a crack of the whip, which put new vivacity into
those of De Quincey.

I made ready at once, for the day was sulky. It had been weeping, and had not yet begun to smile.

Nelly lived with her uncle, the apothecary, Mr. Wardour, and his widowed sister, Mrs. Cumberland.
As I neared the door, I heard her voice, which was not dulcet, from the parlor-kitchen: "What's
this here winder open for?"

"It felt so close in here," was the plaintive little answer; "and the Doctor said I ought to
have the air."

"Does he think we can afford wood enough to warm all out-doors with?"

I knocked; but Mrs. Cumberland was deaf, and went on: "My sakes alive, child! what's all this?"

"The stewed damsons."

"'Stewed damsons,' indeed!--Stewed stalks and stewed leaves and stewed creaturs! Didn't you
have faculty of yourself enough to know that they'd got to be picked over before they went
into the pot? There, there, child! don't you go to cryin', whatever you do."

I knocked louder.

"There's somebody to the door; mebbe it's the Doctor. You go and see what's wanted, an' don't
take no more concern about these. I'll see to 'em."

After a little delay, occasioned perhaps by the need of rubbing the eyelids, which were red,
a little pallid lass, apparently about sixteen years old, shyly opened the door, and looked
relieved, I thought, to find only me at it. She had a small and pretty nose and mouth, large,
heavy blue eyes, flaxen hair drawn neatly, but unbecomingly, away from her face, looked modest
and refined, but sadly moped, and was dressed in dark green, which set her off much as spinach
does a dropped egg.

"Miss Nelly?" said I.

"Yes, Miss Morne," said she.

I had never seen her before; but it afterwards came out that she had peeped at me through the
blinds of her chamber.

"I have brought you a little treat from Dr. Physick."

"O," said she, looking rather pleased; "then isn't he coming to-day?"

"No; he sent me instead."

"I am glad to see you," said she, timidly, but beginning to look really pretty, as her countenance
went on brightening. "Won't you walk in?"

I did so, sat down opposite to her in the cold, shaded "best parlor," and went over the directions
to her aloud. She kept her face civilly turned towards me; but it grew utterly blank again,
and I saw she was not paying the least attention. So I played her a genuine teacher's trick,
which I had learned in my school-room. "Now," continued I, "will you be so good as to repeat
to me what I have been saying, so that I may be able to tell Dr. Physick that I explained it
to you perfectly? He was rather particular about it."

Of course she could not; but this obliged her, in common courtesy, to listen the second time,
which was all I wanted. Then I rose.

She went with me to the door, saying, "I am sorry to give so much trouble. You are very kind
to take so much for me."

"It will be a 'joyful trouble,' if it does you good."

"You are very kind to me. Do you like roses?"

"Indeed I do. Do not you?"

"I don't know. I used to."

There were three blossoms and one bud on a monthly rose-bush, which stood in an earthen pot
by the front door. In an instant she had gathered them all, in spite of my protestations. She
added two or three from a heliotrope, and the freshest sprigs from a diosma, a myrtle, and
a geranium, all somewhat languishing, and tied them together for me with a long blade of grass.

"It is plain," said I, as I thanked her, "that you still care enough about flowers to arrange
them most sweetly. These look as if they were sitting for their picture. I should like to paint
them just as they are."

"Can you paint?"

"A little. Cannot you?"

"No; I can't do anything."

"Shall we make a bargain, then?" I ventured to say, as she looked and seemed so much like the
poor baby the Doctor had called her. "We will each of us try to do something for the other.
If I succeed in painting your flowers, and you succeed in following your directions, you shall
have the picture."

She blushed deeply, looked half ashamed and half gratified, but altogether more alive than
she had done till now, and finally managed to stammer out: "It's too good an offer--too kind--to
refuse; but it's more than I deserve, a great deal. So I'll try to mind Dr. Physick, to please
you; and then--if you liked to give me the picture, I should prize it very much."

I nodded, laughed, went home, put the flowers in water on Julia's work-table, read to her,
and went into the heart of the town to do some shopping for her. After our early dinner, I
said I was a little tired; and she drove with her husband. I took out my paper, brushes, and
palette, set Nelly's nosegay in a becoming light, and began to rub my paints; when wheels and
hoofs came near and stopped, and presently the door-bell rang.

"Are the ladies at home?" asked a smooth, silvery, feminine voice, with a peculiarly neat,
but unaffected enunciation.

"No'm, he ain't," returned the portress, mechanically; "an' he's druv Missis out, too. Here's
the slate; or Miss Kitty could take a message, I s'pose, without she's went out lately ago."

"Take this card," resumed the first voice, "if you please, to Miss Morne, and say that, if
she is not engaged, I should be glad to see her."

I rose in some confusion, pushed my little table into the darkest corner of the room, received
the white card from Rosanna's pink paw, in which it lay like cream amidst five half-ripe Hovey's
seedlings, read "Miss Dudley" upon it, told Rosanna to ask her to please to walk in, and took
up my position just within the door, in a state of some palpitation.

In another minute a gray-haired, rather tall and slight, and very well-made lady, with delicate,
regular, spirited features, was before me, telling me with a peculiar kind of earnest cordiality,
and a sympathy that expressed itself fully in tones, though not in words, that she could not
content herself with writing her acknowledgments to me; she must come and see me herself, to
tell me how pleased and gratified and touched she was by the offering that I had sent her.

I felt myself too much moved by the associations connected with it, and called up by her, to
answer readily; and she, as if conjecturing this, led the conversation gently off, at first
to painting in general, and afterwards, as I grew more at my ease with her, back again, with
an appearance of genuine interest, to mine.

"There was one little shell," said she, "in your native group, which was quite new to me, and--which
is more remarkable--to my brother."

"Was it like this?" asked I, taking a specimen from my paint-box.

"Precisely. We felt sure the portrait must be true to life, because all its companions were
such faithful likenesses; and then it had itself such an honest, genuine, individual look.
But is it to be found on this coast?"

"Yes. If Mr. Dudley has not met with it, it must no doubt be very rare; but, near the same
spot always, just beyond Cedar Point, under the rocks in the little cove that lies farthest
to the south, I have found it more than once."

"You must be quite an enthusiast in natural history. Have you studied it long?"

"No, ma'am, never. I mean," continued I, answering her look of surprise, "never from books.
I believe I should enjoy it more than any other study; but I know so little yet of other things,
and there are so many other things that one needs more to know." I felt my cheeks burn; for
no sooner was I helplessly launched into this speech, than I perceived what an awkward one
it was to make to the sister of an eminent naturalist. Notwithstanding, as I thought it was
true, I could not take it back.

"I agree with you entirely," said she with a reassuring smile. "Such studies are fitted much
more for the coping-stones than the foundation-stones of a good education. But then, if you
will not think me too inquisitive, pray let me ask you one thing more; and that is, where and
how you came by all the information that that group showed."

"Only by playing on the beaches and in the woods when I was a child. My mother did not like
to keep me in, because she thought that that had impaired my sister"--here my voice would break,
but I would go on,--Fanny's dear name should not die out of memory while I lived--"my sister
Fanny's health; but they were afraid to let me run quite wild, and so she--my sister--led me
out often wherever I wished to go, and helped me fill a little pasteboard museum which she
made for me."

Miss Dudley's large, soft, trusty brown eyes met mine tenderly, as she said: "These things
must indeed possess a more than common interest for you then. Have you that museum now?"

"No, ma'am; I sometimes wish I had. I gave it away when I went to Greenville to keep school,"
I added; not that I supposed it would matter anything to her, but that I thought it just as
well to make sure of her understanding my position in life.

"That is so natural to us all,--to part with these little relics when we are still very young,
and then to wish them back again before we are much older! You would smile to see a little
museum that I keep for my brother,--not his scientific collection, which I hope some day to
have the pleasure of showing you,--but 'an olla podrida in an ancestral wardrobe,' as my little
Paul calls it, of his and my two little nieces' first baby-shoes, rattles, corals, and bells,
wooden horses, primers, picture-books, and so forth, down to the cups and balls, and copy-books,
which they have cast off within a month or two, each labelled with the owner's name, and the
date of deposit. No year goes by without leaving behind some memento of each of them, or even
without my laying aside there some trifling articles of dress that they have worn. It is a
fancy of my brother's. He says that others may claim their after-years, but their childhood
is his own,--all of it that is not mine,--and he must keep it for himself, and for them when
they come back to visit him in his old age. It is a birthday treat to them already to take
the key from my split-ring, and look together over the half-forgotten things. But there is
one thing there--a manuscript on the topmost shelf--which they do not know about, but which
we take out and laugh over sometimes when they are all in bed,--a record that I have kept of
all the most diverting things which we have heard them say, ever since they began to learn
to talk." She checked herself,--I fancied because she remembered that, in her enthusiasm about
the children, she had forgotten to what a new acquaintance she was speaking. She rose to take
leave, and resumed, shaking hands with me cordially,--she had, I observed, a remarkably cordial
and pleasant, earnest way of shaking hands,--"But upon the subject of my museum, Miss Morne,
I need hardly beg you to be more discreet than I, and not to mention a domestic trifle of so
little general interest."

I could only bow, but longed, as I attended her to the door, to assure her of the particular
interest which I had already begun to feel in every trifle which belonged to her.

Her little barouche, and long-tailed, dark-gray ponies, vanished with her down the road; and
I was left walking up and down the room. The "kind o' poor-lookin', pale-lookin', queer-lookin'
lady," that Miss Mehitable had described,--was this she? How are we ever to know people by
descriptions, when the same person produces one impression on one mind and quite another on
another,--nay, may have one set of inherent qualities brought out by contact with one character,
and quite another set by contact with another character? Have I described Miss Dudley? No,--and
I cannot. She was both unique and indescribable.

Most people impress us more, perhaps, by their outward and physical, than by their inward and
psychical life. On a first interview with them, especially, we receive an impression of clothes,
good or otherwise, of beauty or plainness or ugliness of feature, and of correctness or uncouthness
of manner. These are the common people, whether ladies and gentlemen, or simple men and women.
There are, however, others, in all ranks and conditions, so instinct and replete with spirit,
that we chiefly feel, when they have come in our way, that a spirit has passed by,--that a
new life has been brought in contact with our own life.

Of these was Miss Dudley. But because, ever since the day I write of, I have loved to think
of her, and because I know that, when I rejoin her, I shall leave some behind me who will still
love, and have a right to hear of her, I will indulge myself in saying something more. That
something shall be what I said to myself then, as I promenaded to and fro,--that bodily exercise
was one of my safety-valves in those times,--in the endeavor to work off so much of my superfluous
animation as to be in a state to sit down and paint again; and thus I spake: "I must have had
before me an uncommonly fine specimen of a class whose existence I have conjectured before,
but by no means including all the wealthy, who wear their purple and fine linen both gracefully
and graciously, fare not more sumptuously than temperately every day, and do a great deal,
not only directly by their ready beneficence, but indirectly by their sunny benignity, to light
up the gloomy world of Lazarus." And though I was but a budding theorist in human nature, and
often made mistakes before and afterwards, I never found myself mistaken there.

When Julia came in an hour after, she said to me, as I looked up from my roses and my rose-colored
revery, "Katy, you look like an inspired sibyl! What has come over you?"

"Miss Dudley," said I.

"What! has she really--been here? How I wish I had seen her! What did she wear?"

"I'm afraid I can't tell you. Wait, I will try. O yes! it comes back to me;--a silver-gray
shot poplin, or silk, made full, but, I think, quite plain; a large red Cashmere shawl, rather
more crimson and less scarlet than they usually are,--it glowed gloriously out from the gray;--then
some kind of a thin, gray bonnet, with large gray and crimson crape and velvet flowers in it,--hibiscus
or passion-flowers, or really I don't know what,--that seemed just to marry the dress to the
shawl."

"Pretty well for you, Katy! Rather heavy for the season; but I suppose she was afraid of this
east wind. You liked her, then?"

"Very much."

"So does the Doctor, always. Some people call her proud; but he says, that is only their way
of expressing their view of the fact that she has a good deal to make her so, and more than
enough to make them so, if they had it instead of her."

"I dare say. I should not think she was a person to take liberties with; but she was very sweet
and kind to me."

"You are not a person to take liberties with anybody, nor to have any taken with you; and so
I dare say she recognized a kindred spirit."

"Now, Julia, by your paying me such a compliment as that, I am certain you must want to have
your bonnet taken up stairs for you; and so you shall."

"Ah! now I shall always know what string to pull when I wish to put a skilful attendant in
motion. Phil would take my bonnet up stairs for me in a moment, if I bade him; but when I went
up myself after it, it would be sure to stare me in the face, topsy-turvy, dumped bolt upright
on the feather."

CHAPTER VI.

In another fortnight we had another Physick in the family. His papa called him "a little dose,"
and his mamma a "pill," in contradistinction to her previous "Phil." Proving peaceful and reflective,
he also soon earned for himself the title of "the infant Philosopher."

Mrs. Physick did not like the society of Mrs. Rocket, the nurse, whom the Doctor had chosen
"on account of the absence of her conversational powers." Mrs. Physick was accordingly always
trying to get me into her chamber to sit with her. Mrs. Rocket accordingly did not like me,
and was always trying to get me out. Between these two contending powers above, and the butcher,
the baker, and candlestick-maker below, I was neither solitary nor idle.

There was much to do, moreover, in answering the kind inquiries, and receiving and disposing
of the whips, jellies, blanc-mangers, and other indigestible delicacies, sent in by anxious
friends. These the grateful Doctor pronounced, in the privacy of domestic life, "poison for
the patient, but not quite so bad for the attendants." Accordingly, we ate them together sociably,
at almost every meal; after which we went up stairs and told "the patient" how good they were,
while I presented her gruel, and he would ask her, with an earnest air of judicial and dispassionate
investigation, whether that was not "nice." This conduct she declared most unfeeling and ungrateful
in us both, and bound herself by many a vow to make us pay for it as soon as she had the ordering
of our dinners again. So we all made merry together over the little cradle that was called
"the pill-box." Its small tenant was from the first, as I have hinted, a virtuous child, cried
little, slept much, and when awake rewarded our attentions by making such preposterous faces
as rendered it a most grateful task to watch him. I soon, therefore, became much attached to
him; and I enjoyed one at least of the chief elements of the happiness of the individual,--the
happiness of those among whom the individual lives.

In the mean time my guardian sometimes discussed with me some other things besides the jellies.
For instance, "Katy," said he at one of our tête-à-tête dinners, "you walk out every day, I
suppose; or, at least, you ought. I wish you would call now and then, and take Nelly Fader
with you. She can hardly be a very entertaining companion to you, I own, but it would be a
charity; and, for your mother's daughter, that's enough."

"Certainly I will. By the way, speaking of her, what did you mean by what you said that day
about female physicians?"

"I meant what I said," returned he, bluntly. "I meant just what I said. We need them, and we
shall have them. It is an experiment that has got to be tried, and will be probably, within
your lifetime, if not in mine. I don't want you to be one of them, though. You ought to be
as much cleverer than yourself as you are now than Nelly Fader, in order to carry it through;
and even then it might be the carrying of a cross through life,--a grievous, in the view of
most men perhaps an ignominious cross, to the pioneers. Especially it will be so, if other
good but uninformed and thoughtless women are going to cry out upon it, as you and Julia did
the other day. Whether the experiment is to succeed or not depends, under Providence, very
much on you and such as you. But if that sort of outcry is to be raised, it will probably have
the effect of keeping out of the profession such women as, from their integrity, ability, culture,
and breeding, could be ornaments to it, and leave us shallow and low-minded smatterers, that
I wouldn't trust with the life of a canary-bird,--who will ask which is likely to be the most
lucrative calling, medicine or millinery, and take their choice accordingly,--and, for want
of better, poor dupes will employ them. If you can't bear female practitioners, you'll have
to bear female quacktitioners." He paused and looked at me.

I knew how jealous he always was for the honor of his craft. He did not often come so near
giving me a scolding; and I began to be afraid I might deserve one, though I could not see
how. "I am sorry," said I; "I did not mean--I did not think--I did not know--"

"Precisely, kitten on the hearth," returned he, good-humoredly; "and as you are sorry, and
as you are besides usually rather less unmeaning and unthinking and unknowing than most other
chits of your age, I forgive you. Learn to think and know before you hiss or purr, and you
will be wiser than most chits of any age or sex. But now, consider: you, such as you are, yourself
little more than a child, have, in two or three short visits, roused, interested, and done
that other poor child more good, and, I strongly suspect, inspired her with more confidence,
than I--I trust as upright a person and as sincere a well-wisher--have been able to do in a
score. And this you have been able to do, in great part, simply by virtue of your womanhood.
It comes more natural to her, no doubt, to talk with you. Nelly's is a case in point, though
by no manner of means so strong a case as others that I have in my mind. Now imagine another
woman with your good-will and natural tact, vivacity, and sympathy; multiply these by double
your age and intellect, and again by triple your experience and information; calculate from
these data her powers of doing good in such cases, and then see whether, in helping to brand
her and fetter her in the exercise of such powers, you may not 'haply be found to fight against
God.'"

"I will not speak so again,--at least before I think and know. You have forgiven me. Now appoint
me my penance."

"Do what more you can for Nelly, then. I can do little or nothing. In fact, my visits seem
to embarrass and agitate her so much, that I am sometimes afraid they hurt her more than they
help her. She suffers more in mind than body, I suspect. How, she will not tell me, and perhaps
she cannot. It may be that she is sick from sorrow; or, on the other hand, her sorrow may be
only an illusion of her sickness. It is all, from first to last, a mere miserable groping and
working in the dark. In the mean time her constitution and character are forming for life.
It is enough to make one's heart ache to look at the poor baby, and think what an unsatisfactory,
profitless, miserable life that may be. I need not remind you, Katy, that all this is a little
piece of Freemasonry between ourselves. You are one of the exceptional and abnormal human people
before whom one can safely think aloud."

I went to Nelly that very afternoon, with some curiosity and with no unwillingness. I had already
begun to like her better than the Doctor did, as I began to know her better. At first I had
been somewhat at a loss as to her real disposition, between the constant civility of her manners,
and the occasional sullenness of her manner. I was fast making up my mind that the civility
was genuine; the sullenness, apparent only, the result of extreme shyness, despondency, and
languor. As fast as she became more and more at her ease with me, just so fast did she become
more and more engaging. She was chaotic enough, and like a different creature on different
days; but I found her, though sometimes very childish, often sweet and never sour, unvaryingly
patient towards her very trying aunt, and only too subservient to her.

On this particular afternoon, I spied her through the best-parlor window, sobbing dismally.
When she heard and saw me, she tried to compose herself in vain; but the only account she had
to give of her grief was, that "the mocking-bird sang so dreadfully, and the Doctor told Aunt
Cumberland she [Nelly] was not going to die. There," added she, under her breath, "I didn't
mean to say that!"

We had no chance to say more; for Mrs. Cumberland came in from her shopping, and inquired for
some cap-ruffles, which she had given Nelly to make up for her. "She said she didn't feel well
enough to go down town with me," said Mrs. Cumberland; "an' so I left her them to hem, 'cause
the Doctor says she needs cheerful occupation; an' them are just the pootiest kind o' work
for young ladies, an' ruther tryin' to old eyes."

This was unanswerable; and as I was obliged myself to go to some shops, and Nelly could not,
with her swollen lids, I bade Mrs. Cumberland good by; but told her niece that I meant to call
for her soon again, for the Doctor thought it would do both of us good to take a walk every
day. She looked somewhat encouraged by this; and I hoped that the plan would have the twofold
effect of making her think it would be ungracious to refuse to accompany me a second time,
and of keeping her from crying lest she should again be caught at it.

When I reached home, I found it a home of strife. The pill was soon to be labelled. Dr. Physick
wished to call it Julius; but nothing would do for his tyrannical wife but to have it bear
his name.

"Thank you," said the Doctor, as I entered. "Aren't the sufferings of one generation under
that dispensation enough for you? Do as you would be done by, Julia. How would you like yourself
to be called Philemon?"

"I can't help that," persisted Mrs. Julia. "The name of Phil is a philter to me. Unless he
bears it, I shall hate him."

"A likely story! What should you have done if he had been a girl?"

"Called him Phillis," answered the ready Julia, sturdily.

"Then what should you say to Philip, now?" interposed I in behalf of the helpless innocent,--(an
interposition in return for which, ever after we have finished his medical education with a
year in Paris, he ought in common gratitude to prescribe for me gratis, if I live to be as
old and ill as Joyce Heth;--for Philip he was and is, and will be, I trust, for many a fine
day,--the fine, honest, clever, useful fellow!)

"Here's your fee, Katy, for restoring my domestic supremacy--ahem! I hope Mrs. Physick did
not hear," said the Doctor;--"domestic balance of power shall I say, my love,--or system of
compromises?"

What "my love" desired him to say I cannot say, for I was deep in the note which he had disgorged
for me from his not only omnivorous, but, alas! too often oblivious pocket. It was written
on small-sized French paper, in a beautiful English hand, bore date, to my consternation, some
days back, and ran as follows:--

                    "BARBERRY BEACH, Monday, Sept.--th, 18--.

"DEAR MISS MORNE:--

"I have been wishing to see you again, all through this month, but scarcely expecting it till
now; because I knew how full your heart and hands must be at home. Now, however, since I have
had the pleasure of hearing from the Doctor that Mrs. Physick is nearly well, perhaps it will
not be too much to hope that you will find an hour to spare for me some day this week. I have
no engagements made; and if you can appoint a time to come to me, I shall be here and deny
myself to other visitors. I should send my barouche for you; but one of the ponies has hurt
its hoof, and the Doctor says that you confine yourself too closely to your household cares,
and that you would be all the better for a walk.

"Another indulgence which I have been promising myself,--that of painting some illustrations
for my brother's next work,--I find I must not only put off, but forego. It would be some consolation
to me to be able to make it over to you, and believe that you found half as much enjoyment
in it as I have, on former occasions. The usual terms, when he has paid for such work, have
been ... [here she named a liberal sum]; but of course, if you like to undertake it, you will
feel at liberty to name your own; and I shall be, as I am,

                                "Very gratefully yours,

                                    "ELIZABETH DUDLEY.

   "MISS MORNE."

Between surprise, pleasure, and dismay at my apparent neglect, I exclaimed simply, "What shall
I do!"

"In all dilemmas, consult your guardian," answered he; and I handed him the note by way of
a Nemesis.

He read it aloud very honestly, date and all; and I had the satisfaction to hear his wife,
who was fast getting him well in hand again, rebuke him.

"Whew!" whistled he with most appropriate contrition; "'Monday'! and it's Thursday now, and
too late for to-day! I wish I mayn't have lost you the job, Katy. While the heart holds out,
however, never give up the case! Put on your best bib and tucker when you get up to-morrow
morning; and, as soon as you have got through ordering me an apple-dumpling, I will take you
over there, and tell Miss Dudley who was to blame, and promise her, if she will forgive us,
never to give her any assafoetida."

CHAPTER VII.

I could scarcely sleep that night for eagerness and anticipation. Ever since the afternoon
when the vision of Miss Dudley appeared, to startle me from my painting, in the little south
parlor, she had been the foremost figure in my brightest day-dreams, as often as, with little
Philip warm and slumberous on my knees, I could find time for day-dreams. Accordingly, I had
been more than wishing--longing--to see her again; though I put off returning her visit, partly
from real want of time, partly from uncertainty about what was the proper etiquette for me,
and partly from the dread of dispelling some pleasant illusions, and finding that the Miss
Dudley of my reveries belonged to the realm of my imagination rather than to that of my memory.
I dreamed of her all that night, when I was not lying awake to think of her; and when, in the
morning, I arose early to brush and brighten my somewhat faded black, the keen autumn air,
instead of chilling me, seemed but to whet and sharpen my zest for my expedition.

Julia's toilet was not made when I heard the clatter of the recalcitrant De Quincey backing
the chaise out of his beloved, but little be-lived in, stable. She sat up in bed, however,
when I went in to kiss her, in spite of Mrs. Rocket, turned me round to the window to see whether
I was looking my best, or, as she equivocally phrased it, "the best of which I was capable,"
told me, that I had got a little rouge the last time I was out, and must ask Miss Dudley whether
it was not becoming, and hooked her forefingers into my naturally gekräuseltes hair, to pull
it into what she always maintained to be the proper pose above my eyebrows.

Then down I ran, and off I went, through the town and along the road, between rocks and evergreens
with here and there a gate among them that marked the entrance to the earthly paradise of some
lucky gentleman.

"Sha'n't we be too early?" asked I, fidgeting, for my prosperity appeared to me, just now,
too perfect to be permanent.

"No," said the Doctor. "They are early people at Barberry Beach,--not Sybarites in anything,
so far as I can judge. It is near nine. Miss Dudley tells me I shall almost always find her
visible by that time. If, not hearing from you, she has made other engagements, you know she
is more likely to be at leisure now than later."

"She does not look well yet. What was the matter with her?"

"Angina pectoris. That is Greek to you, Katy. Pain in the heart, then."

"What made her have it?"

"That is a deep question in the most interesting of sciences,--that of the metamorphoses of
diseases. Many men would answer it according to their many minds. To the best of my belief,
the cause of Miss Dudley's having a pain in her heart lay in her great-grandfather's toe."

"O Doctor! what do you mean?"

"The gout."

"Well, that sounds very aristocratic and imposing; but, notwithstanding, I know you are laughing
at me."

"No, I am not. It is no laughing matter."

"Why, is it dangerous?"

"Dangerous!" said he. "It is deadly. Why, Katy, I never shall dare to tell you anything again,
if you are going to look so frightened! She did not when I told her."

"Does she know?"

"Yes, and makes no secret of it, and is not unlikely to mention it before you; so that you
must accustom yourself to the idea, and be prepared to face it as she does."

"How came she to know?"

"She asked me. I gave up very early in my practice, for several reasons, the habit of lying
to my patients. If they are cowards, or if, for any reason, I think the truth and the whole
truth would shorten their days, I often tell them little or nothing; but I tell them nothing
but the truth. She is not a person to be put off from knowing what she has a right to know."

"How did she take it?"

"Nobly and simply, without any affectation of indifference. As she put the question, I laid
my hand on her pulse; and, as it went on pretty firmly, I went on too. When I had said all
there was to say, she thanked me earnestly, and said, as sweetly as anything could possibly
be said, that the information would add double weight to the cautions and other counsels I
had given her, and told me that, if I ever came to be in a situation like hers, she trusted
that I should find the comfort of being dealt with with candor and kindness like mine. After
all, Katy, she may live yet many years, and die at last of something else; and that is about
the best that can be prognosticated of you and me, my dear."

"'Tis true the young may die, but the old must," thought I. I was half comforted, and only
half. Yet the pensive shadow of coming doom--or shall I not rather say the solemn dawn of approaching
eternity?--seemed to lend a new and more unearthly charm to the lovely spiritual vision I cherished
in my mind.

Presently, instead of passing a gate, the Doctor turned in at it, and drove smoothly up the
gentle slope of a hard-rolled winding avenue lined with hemlocks. "Pretty, isn't it?" cried
he. "O for the time when I shall retire upon my fortune, and leave my office to Phil the second!
There, Katy! What do you think of that?"

What did I think? O, too much to be told, either then or now! From the dark trees one forward
step of each of De Quincey's forefeet brought us out into a high amphitheatre, at the instant
flooded with sunshine. A higher hill, wooded with evergreens and bossed with boulders, made
a background behind it, on the right, for a large, low cottage of clear gray granite, with
broad piazzas curtained with Virginia creepers and monthly honeysuckles, and cloistered on
the south. In front of the cottage was a shaven lawn, rimmed with a hedge of graceful barberries,
and lighted up by small circular spots of brown earth, teeming with salvia and other splendid
autumn flowers. Beyond and on the left ran a long reach of rocky headlands, burning with golden-rod
and wild-rose berries mingled with purple asters and white spiræa, and all along from below,
but very near, spread out far and wide the inexpressible ocean. It was a rough, ridgy, sage-greenish,
gray ocean, I remember, that morning, full of tumble and toss and long scalloped lines of spent
foam, covered over with a dim, low half-dome of sky,--with seagulls flickering, and here and
there a small, wild, ragged gypsy of a cloud, of a little darker gray, scudding lawlessly under,--and
threw out in the strongest contrast the brilliant hues and sharp, clear outlines of the shore.

The Doctor sprang from the chaise, left me in it, and threw me the reins. I always wished he
wouldn't, but he always would. The most I had to gain by pulling them, if De Quincey grew restless,
was to make him back; and this was precisely what I least desired. My reasonable expostulations,
however, could never obtain any more grace from him who should have been my guardian than a
promise, if I would "make no fuss, and broken bones" came of it, that he would "mend me softly."
Therefore I thought it most prudent not to expostulate; but my penance was this time a brief
one. He had hardly entered the door when the tall, striking figure I recollected so well came
dimly in view in one of the nearest bay-windows, tapped on the glass with one slender white-frilled
hand, and nodded with a bright, glad smile; and back came the Doctor to help me out.

"It is all right, Katy. Miss Dudley wants you, and does not want me. If it rains, you can stay
till I call for you. Otherwise, come back when you like. The first door to your left in the hall."

Miss Dudley met me in the parlor-door, laughing. "I should have come out to make prize of you,"
said she, "but they say it is rather bleak this morning, and I am still under orders. I had
almost given you up for this week; but the Doctor assures me that he has already been suitably
dealt with and brought to repentance, and so there is no more to be said on that point, especially
as you have happened to hit on the very time when I am most alone, and when, as I have been
accustomed to be the busiest, I feel my present idleness the most. You drove here, after all.
You are not tired? What should you say, first, to a walk with me?"

A staid-looking, exquisitely neat, elderly woman brought her bonnet, umbrella, gloves, and
a large Scotch plaid shawl, in which she wrapped Miss Dudley, with much solicitude, and was
so prettily thanked for her pains that I longed to have the wrapping up to do myself.

"I really do not think I needed to be muffled up quite so closely to-day," said my hostess,
as she stepped lightly from the piazza to the sunlit gravel-walk; "but Bonner is ten years
older than I, and feels the cold a good deal herself, and I do not like to make her anxious
about me. She had a great fright, poor thing! when I was ill. Where shall we go, Miss Morne?--to
the garden or the shore? I am not certain that those clouds mean to give us time for both."

Not knowing which she would prefer, I answered that I could hardly choose, unless she would
be so kind as to tell me which was the most beautiful. To my joy, she said the shore. The path
ran close to the edge of the cliffs; and below our very feet were the beach and the breakers.
We both forgot ourselves at first, I think, in the sight and sound.

At length she turned, with a sudden movement, and looked me in the face. "I do believe, Miss
Morne," said she, "that you are one of the fortunate people who have the power to enjoy this
to the full. I trust that we may often still enjoy it here together."

"Shall I tell you how I enjoy it, ma'am?" I exclaimed, carried out of myself at sight of the
enthusiasm that was tinging her delicate cheek and lighting up her eyes. "As we enjoy those
things that it never comes into our heads to ask ourselves whether we like or not. Some things
we have to ask ourselves, whether we like or not, before we know, and even after we are scarcely
sure; and some things, such as the poor little 'Marchioness's' orange-peel and water, we have
to 'make believe very hard' in order to like at all. But home when we have been away, and friends
when we have been lonely, and water when we are thirsty, and the sea always!--we never ask
ourselves if those are good,--we know." Then my face burnt. How it would burn in those girlish
days!

And how foolish I felt, or had begun to feel, when Miss Dudley slowly answered, looking mercifully
away from me and at the waves: "Very true, Miss Morne! You speak from your heart, and to mine."

The clouds were forbearing, and allowed us time afterwards for a visit to the gorgeous garden.
We walked to the summer-house at the very end, from which a winding path began to climb the
hill. There Miss Dudley paused. "My chamois days are over, for the present, at least," said
she. "We must wait for my little nieces or nephew to escort you up there. Shall we go in?"

When we did so, I thought that the interior of the cottage was not much less grand, scarcely
less beautiful, than what we had seen without. At that period most housekeepers held the hardly
yet exploded heresy, not only that fresh air was a dangerous and unwholesome luxury, to be
denied, as far as might be, to any but the strongest constitutions,[2] but that even sunshine
within the doors was an inadmissible intrusion, alike untidy and superfluous. On these points
this house set public opinion at defiance. It was set, of set purpose, at wrong angles to the
points of the compass. Every wind of heaven could sweep it, at the pleasure of the inmates,
through and through, and the piazzas were so arranged that there was not a single apartment
in it into which the sun could not look, through one window or another, once at least in the
twenty-four hours. The floors were tiled, ingrained, oiled, matted,--everything but carpeted,
except that of the state drawing-room; and there the Wilton had a covering over it, removed,
as I afterwards found, only on occasions of state. The whole atmosphere seemed full of health,
purity, cheerfulness, warmth, and brightness. Brilliant flowers peeped in at the windows, and
were set on the tables in vases, or hung in them from the walls. And there were pictures, and
there were statues, but there too was Miss Dudley, paring a peach for me, for sociability's
sake,--for she could not eat one herself, so soon after her breakfast; and, as I knew the time
must be running away very fast,--hard that it will always run fastest when we are the happiest!--I
seized my first opportunity to say that few things would give me greater pleasure than to furnish
the illustrations she had mentioned, if I could but succeed in executing them as I ought.

"As to that, I will be your sponsor," returned she, gayly, "if you would like to begin them
here. Your touch is very firm and true; and I will show you all our tricks of color. Here is
my paint-box. Have you time to-day?"

I had time, and no excuse; though, in falling so suddenly into the midst of painting-lessons
from Miss Dudley, I really felt as if I was having greatness thrust upon me in a manner to
take my breath away. If I had only had a little more time to think about it, my touch might
have been truer for the nonce. Her paint-box was so handsomely furnished, too, and so daintily
ordered, that I scarcely dared touch it. She gave me a little respite, however, by rubbing
the colors for me,--colors, some of them, that, for their costliness, I could not allow myself
at all at home,--and selected for me two such exquisite brushes from her store! Then she lay
down beside me on a "couch of Ind," smiled as I laid her plaid over her feet, and watched me
at the work. How that brought my poor Fanny back to me! But my new mistress went on unwearyingly,
teaching and encouraging me, and, if I was more than satisfied with her, did not on her part
show that she was less than satisfied with me. The clock struck twelve before I dreamed of
its taking upon itself to offer such an untimely interruption.

"Now I am nicely rested," said she, soon after; "and I am afraid you must begin to be nicely
tired. Do you not?"

"No, indeed; I seldom do till nine o'clock at night."

"Then we will indulge ourselves here still a little longer. But hark! Are not there my little
people back from school?"

The expression common to those who love children stole into her face. Young voices were drawing
nearer.

"Come to my arms, O lovely cherub!" said one that had a boyish sound in it, paternally.

"Look out and see them," whispered Miss Dudley to me.

I peeped through the blinds. A handsome and very graceful olive-hued boy, apparently about
fourteen years old, with a form like that of the Mercury upborne by a zephyr, eyes like stars,
lashes like star-beams, and an expression that would have made him a good study for a picture
of Puck, half leaning, half sitting, on the stone balustrade, was tenderly dandling in his
arms a huge, vulgar-looking, gray, striped stable-cat, that rolled and writhed therein in transports
of comfort and affection.

"But, indeed, Paul," remonstrated another voice, tout comme un serin, "Pet ought to be whipped
instead of hugged! Lily says so."

"Tiger Lily? What a cruel girl! O, my Pettitoes! how can she say so?"

"Why," answered another girlish voice, a little firmer, but hardly less sweet, than the first,
"only think! While we were all in school, he watched his opportunity and killed the robin that
lives in the crab-apple-tree. The gardener says he heard it cry, and ran with his hoe; and
there was this wicked, horrid, grim, great Pet galloping as fast as he could gallop to the
stable, with its poor little beak sticking out at one side of his grinning mouth, and its tail
at the other!"

"Why, Pettitoes! how very inconsiderate! You won't serve it so another time, will you? Though
how a robin can have the face to squeak when he catches it himself at noon, after cramming
himself with worms the whole morning, is more than I can see!"

"O no, Paul! He was singing most sweetly! I heard him; and so did Rose."

"And so did I. He was singing through his nose as bad as Deacon Piper, because he had a worm
in his mouth. He couldn't leave off gobbling one single minute,--not even to practise his music."

"Let us go out," said Miss Dudley.

We did so. Paul's retreating back was all that was to be seen of the boy, with Pet's peaceful
chin pillowed upon his shoulder, as, borne off in triumph, he looked calmly back at Lily, who
stood shaking her small, chiselled ivory finger at him. Rose was still beside her, with her
arm around her waist, as if in propitiation.

Two twelve-year-old twins, in twin blue gingham frocks,--they were much addicted to blue and
pink ginghams,--they had that indefinable look of blood which belonged to their kin, which
is sometimes, to be sure, to be found in families that have no great-grandfathers, after they
have been well-fed, well-read, and well-bred for a generation or two, but to which they had
an uncommonly good right, as their pedigree--so I afterwards found--ran straight back to the
Norman Conquest, without a single "probably" in it. They were, for their age, tall and slender,
with yet more springy buoyancy than their aunt in pose and movement. Strangers were always
mistaking them for each other. That day I could scarcely tell them apart, though afterwards
I wondered at it. Rose was the very prettiest child I ever saw, and Lily pretty nearly the
most beautiful person.

Lily was already the tallest. Her thick and wavy hair was blonde cendrée, and all her features
were perfectly Grecian. Her eyes were of a very dark blue, that turned into nothing but clear
radiance when she was opposed or in any way excited. Her complexion was healthful, but would
be described as soft and warm, rather than brilliant. Her whole fair little face was about
as firm and spirited as a fair girlish face could be.

Rose's larger eyes were of a pure, deep hazel. Her hair, as thick and curly as Lily's, was
far more glossy and flossy, and of the yellowest, brightest gold-color. Her nose--a most perfect
little nose--was more aquiline than her sister's. Her skin was of the tints of the finest rare-ripe
peaches,--pure white and deepening pink; and all around her mouth were dimples lying in wait
for her to laugh.

As they met Miss Dudley, with the many-colored Virginia creepers behind them and the flowers
behind her, a better tableau vivant of "first youth" and first age could scarcely have been
put together than they made. It made me wish that I had been more than a painter of specimens.
The elder lady presented me to the younger ones; and they greeted me with that pretty courtesy
that always charms us twofold when we meet with it in children, because we scarcely expect
it of them. Rose's radiant little countenance, especially, seemed to say, "I have heard of
you before, and wished to know you"; and that is one of the most winning expressions that a
new countenance can wear. Then they put their arms round "dear Aunt Lizzy," coaxed her for
peaches, and obtained the remainder of our basketful without much difficulty; and then I had
to depart, but not quite without solace, for Rose ran after me to say, "Aunt Lizzy hopes, if
you are not otherwise engaged, to see you again Monday morning at nine; and she sends you this
book that she forgot to give you. It made her think of you, she says, when she was reading it."

It was Greenwood's "Sermons of Consolation"; and, written in her hand on the fly-leaf, I found
my name.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] The old philosophy held, that "Nature abhors a vacuum"; but modern observation shows that
the natural Yankee abhors the air.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SWORD OF BOLIVAR.

    With the steadfast stars above us,
      And the molten stars below,
    We sailed through the Southern midnight,
      By the coast of Mexico.

    Alone, on the desolate, dark-ringed,
      Rolling and flashing sea,
    A grim old Venezuelan
      Kept the deck with me,
    And talked to me of his country,
      And the long Spanish war,
    And told how a young Republic
      Forged the sword of Bolivar.

    Of no base mundane metal
      Was the wondrous weapon made,
    And in no earth-born fire
      Was fashioned the sacred blade.

    But that it might shine the symbol
      Of law and light in the land,
    Dropped down as a star from heaven,
      To flame in a hero's hand.

    And be to the world a portent
      Of eternal might and right,
    They chose for the steel a splinter
      From a fallen aerolite.

    Then a virgin forge they builded
      By the city, and kindled it
    With flame from a shattered palm-tree,
      Which the lightning's torch had lit,--

    That no fire of earthly passion
      Might taint the holy sword,
    And no ancient error tarnish
      The falchion of the Lord.

    For Quito and New Granada
      And Venezuela they pour
    From three crucibles the dazzling
      White meteoric ore.

    In three ingots it is moulded,
      And welded into one,
    For an emblem of Colombia,
      Bright daughter of the sun!

    It is drawn on a virgin anvil,
      It is heated and hammered and rolled,
    It is shaped and tempered and burnished,
      And set in a hilt of gold;

    For thus by the fire and the hammer
      Of war a nation is built,
    And ever the sword of its power
      Is swayed by a golden hilt.

    Then with pomp and oratory
      The mustachioed señores brought
    To the house of the Liberator
      The weapon they had wrought;
    And they said, in their stately phrases,
      "O mighty in peace and war!
    No mortal blade we bring you,
      But a flaming meteor.

    "The sword of the Spaniard is broken,
      And to you in its stead is given,
    To lead and redeem a nation,
      This ray of light from heaven."

    The gaunt-faced Liberator
      From their hands the symbol took,
    And waved it aloft in the sunlight,
      With a high, heroic look;

    And he called the saints to witness:
      "May these lips turn into dust,
    And this right hand fail, if ever
      It prove recreant to its trust!

    "Never the sigh of a bondman
      Shall cloud this gleaming steel,
    But only the foe and the traitor
      Its vengeful edge shall feel.

    "Never a tear of my country
      Its purity shall stain,
    Till into your hands, who gave it,
      I render it again."

    Now if ever a chief was chosen
      To cover a cause with shame,
    And if ever there breathed a caitiff,
      Bolivar was his name.

    From his place among the people
      To the highest seat he went,
    By the winding paths of party
      And the stair of accident.

    A restless, weak usurper,
      Striving to rear a throne,
    Filling his fame with counsels
      And conquests not his own;--

    Now seeming to put from him
      The sceptre of command,
    Only that he might grasp it
      With yet a firmer hand;--

    His country's trusted leader,
      In league with his country's foes,
    Stabbing the cause that nursed him,
      And openly serving those;--

    The chief of a great republic
      Plotting rebellion still,--
    An apostate faithful only
      To his own ambitious will.

    Drunk with a vain ambition,
      In his feeble, reckless hand,
    The sword of Eternal Justice
      Became but a brawler's brand.

    And Colombia was dissevered,
      Rent by factions, till at last
    Her name among the nations
      Is a memory of the past.

    Here the grim old Venezuelan
      Puffed fiercely his red cigar
    A brief moment, then in the ocean
      It vanished like a star;

    And he slumbered in his hammock;
      And only the ceaseless rush
    Of the reeling and sparkling waters
      Filled the solemn midnight hush,

    As I leaned by the swinging gunwale
      Of the good ship, sailing slow,
    With the steadfast heavens above her,
      And the molten heavens below.

    Then I thought with sorrow and yearning
      Of my own distracted land,
    And the sword let down from heaven
      To flame in her ruler's hand,--

    The sword of Freedom, resplendent
      As a beam of the morning star,
    Received, reviled, and dishonored
      By another than Bolivar!

    And my prayers flew home to my country:
      O ye tried and fearless crew!
    O ye pilots of the nation!
      Now her safety is with you.

    Beware the traitorous captain,
      And the wreckers on the shore;
    Guard well the noble vessel;
      And steadily evermore,

    As ye steer through the perilous midnight,
      Let your faithful glances go
    To the steadfast stars above her,
      From their fickle gleams below.

       *       *       *       *       *

THROUGH BROADWAY.

The incessant demolition of which Broadway is the scene denotes to the most careless eye that
devotion to the immediate which De Tocqueville maintains to be a democratic characteristic.
The huge piles of old bricks which block the way--with their array of placards heralding every
grade of popular amusement, from a tragedy of Shakespeare to a negro melody, and from a menagerie
to a clairvoyant exhibition, and vaunting every kind of experimental charlatanism, from quack
medicine to flash literature--are mounds of less mystery, but more human meaning, than those
which puzzle archæologists on the Mississippi and the Ohio; for they are the débris of mansions
only half a century ago the aristocratic homes of families whose descendants are long since
scattered, and whose social prominence and local identity are forgotten, while trade has obliterated
every vestige of their roof-tree and association of their hearth-stone. Such is the constant
process. As private residences give way to stores and offices, the upper portion of the island
is crowded with their enlarged dimensions and elaborate luxury; churches are in the same manner
sacrificed, until St. Paul's and Trinity alone remain of the old sacred landmarks; and the
suburban feature--those "fields" where burgomasters foregathered, the militia drilled, and
Hamilton's youthful eloquence roused the people to arms--is transferred to the other and distant
end of Manhattan, and expanded into a vast, variegated, and beautiful rural domain,--that "the
Park" may coincide in extent and attraction with the increase of the population and growth
of the city's area. Thus a perpetual tide of emigration, and the pressure of the business on
the resident section,--involving change of domicile, substitution of uses, the alternate destruction
and erection of buildings, each being larger and more costly in material than its predecessor,--make
the metropolis of the New World appear, to the visitor from the Old, a shifting bivouac rather
than a stable city, where hereditary homes are impossible, and nomadic instincts prevalent,
and where local associations, such as endear or identify the streets abroad, seem as incongruous
as in the Eastern desert or Western woods, whose dwellers "fold their tents like the Arabs,
and as silently steal away." The absence of the law of primogeniture necessitates the breaking
up of estates, and thus facilitates the methods whereby the elegant homestead becomes, in the
second or third generation, a dry-goods store, a boarding or club house, a milliner's show-room
or a dentist's office. Here and there some venerable gossip will rehearse the triumphs of refined
hospitality, or describe the success of a belle or the brilliancy of a genial leader in politics
or social pastime, which, years ago, consecrated a mansion or endeared a neighborhood,--whereof
not a visible relic is now discoverable, save in a portrait or reminiscent paper conserved
in the archives of the Historical Society. And in this speedy oblivion of domestic and social
landmarks, how easily we find a reason for the national irreverence, and the exclusive interest
in the future, which make the life of America, like the streets of her cities, a scene of transition
unhallowed by memorials.

Yet, despite its dead horses and vehicular entanglements, its vile concert saloons, the alternate
meanness and magnificence of its architecture, the fragile character of its theatrical structures,
and their limited and hazardous means of exit,--despite falling walls and the necessity of
police guardianship at the crossings, the reckless driving of butcher-boys and the dexterity
of pickpockets,--despite the slippery pavement, and the chronic cry for "relief,"--Broadway
is a spectacle and an experience worth patient study, and wonderfully prolific of life-pictures.
With a fountain at one end, like a French town, and a chime of bells at the other, like a German
city, the intermediate space is as representative a rendezvous as can be found in the world.

The first thing that strikes an experienced eye in New York's great thoroughfare is the paucity
of loiterers: he sees, at a glance, that the flâneur is an exotic here. There is that in the
gait and look of every one that shows a settled and an eager purpose,--a goal sought under
pressure. A counting-room, office, court, mart, or mansion is to be reached punctually, and
therefore the eye and step are straightforward, intent, preoccupied. But this peculiarity is
chiefly obvious early and late in the day, when business and professional men are on their
way to and from the place of their daily vocations. Later, and especially about two hours after
noon, it is the dress and number of the other sex that win attention; and to one fresh from
London, the street attire of ladies--or those who aspire, with more or less justice, to that
title--is a startling incongruity; for the showy colors and fine textures reserved across the
sea for the opera, the salon, and the fashionable drive, are here displayed on shopping expeditions,
for which an English lady dresses in neutral tints and substantial fabrics,--avoiding rather
than courting observation. The vulgar impression derived in Broadway from an opposite habit
is vastly increased by modern fashions; for the apology for a bonnet that leaves brow, cheek,
and head fully exposed,--the rustle and dimensions of crinoline,--the heavy masses of unctuous
false hair attached to the back of the head, deforming its shape and often giving a coarse
monstrosity to its naturally graceful poise and proportions,--the inappropriate display of
jewelry and the long silk trains of the expensive robes trailing on the dirty walk, and continually
caught beneath the feet of careless pedestrians,--all unite to render the exhibition repulsive
to taste, good sense, and that chivalric sympathy inspired by the sight of female beauty and
grace, so often co-existent with these anomalies. Broadway has often been compared to a kaleidoscope,--an
appellation suggested by the variety of shifting tints, from those of female dress to those
of innumerable commodities, from dazzling effects of sunshine to the radiance of equipage,
vivid paint, gilded signs, and dazzling wares. And blent with this pervading language of colors
are the local associations which the articles of merchandise hint. Consider how extensive is
their scope,--Persian carpets, Lyons silks, Genoa velvets, ribbons from Coventry and laces
from Brussels, the furs of the Northwest, glass of Bohemia, ware of China, nuts from Brazil,
silver of Nevada mines, Sicily lemons, Turkey figs, metallic coffins and fresh violets, Arabian
dates, French chocolate, pine-apples from the West Indies, venison from the Adirondacs, brilliant
chemicals, gilded frames, Manchester cloth, Sheffield cutlery, Irish linens, ruddy fruit, salmon
from the Thousand Isles, sables from Russia, watches from Geneva, carvings from Switzerland,
caricatures and India-rubber garments, saccharine temples, books in tinted covers, toys, wines,
perfumes, drugs, dainties, art, luxury, science, all lavishing their products to allure the
throng,--phenomena common, indeed, to all streets devoted to trade, but here uniquely combined
with a fashionable promenade, and affording the still-life of a variegated moving panorama.
It is characteristic, also, that the only palatial buildings along the crowded avenue are stores
and hotels. Architecture thus glorifies the gregarious extravagance of the people. The effect
of the whole is indefinitely prolonged, to an imaginative mind, by the vistas at the lower
extremity, which reveal the river, and, at sunset, the dark tracery of the shipping against
the far and flushed horizon; while, if one lifts his eye to the telegraph wire, or lowers it
to some excavation which betrays the Croton pipes, a sublime consciousness is awakened of the
relation of this swift and populous eddy of life's great ocean to its distant rural streams,
and the ebb and flow of humanity's eternal tide. Consider, too, the representative economics
and delectations around, available to taste, necessity, and cash,--how wonderful their contrast!
Not long since, an Egyptian museum, with relics dating from the Pharaohs, was accessible to
the Broadway philosopher, and a Turkish khan to the sybarite; one has but to mount a staircase,
and find himself in the presence of authentic effigies of all the prominent men of the nation,
sun-painted for the million. This pharmacist will exorcise his pain-demon; that electrician
place him en rapport with kindred hundreds of miles away, or fortify his jaded nerves. Down
this street he may enjoy a Russian or Turkish bath; down that, a water-cure. Here, with skill
undreamed of by civilized antiquity, fine gold can be made to replace the decayed segment of
a tooth; there, he has but to stretch out his foot, and a chiropodist removes the throbbing
bunion, or a boy kneels to polish his boots. A hackman is at hand to drive him to the Park,
a telescope to show him the stars; he has but to pause at a corner and buy a journal which
will place him au courant with the events of the world, or listen to an organ-grinder, and
think himself at the opera. This temple is free for him to enter and "muse till the fire burns";
on yonder bookseller's counter is an epitome of the wisdom of ages; there he may buy a nosegay
to propitiate his lady-love, or a sewing-machine to beguile his womankind, and here a crimson
balloon or spring rocking-horse, to delight his little boy, and rare gems or a silver service
for a bridal gift. This English tailor will provide him with a "capital fit," that German tobacconist
with a creamy meerschaum. At the artificial Spa he may recuperate with Vichy or Kissingen,
and at the phrenologist's have his mental and moral aptitudes defined; now a "medium" invites
him to a spiritual séance, and now an antiquarian to a "curiosity shop." In one saloon is lager
such as he drank in Bavaria, and in another, the best bivalves in the world. Here is a fine
billiard-table, there a gymnasium;--food for mind and body, gratification to taste;--all the
external resources of civilization are at hand,--not always with the substantial superiority
of those of London or the elegant variety of Paris, but with enough of both to make them available
to the eclectic cosmopolite.

The historical epochs of New York are adequately traceable by the successive pictures of her
main thoroughfare,--beginning with the Indian village and the primeval forest which Henry Hudson
found on the island of Manhattan in 1609, and advancing to the stockade fort of New Amsterdam,
built where the Battery now is, by Wouter Van Twiller, the second Dutch governor, and thence
to the era when the fur trade, tobacco-growing, and slavery were enriching the India Company,
when the Wall was built on the site of the so-called financial rendezvous, to protect the settlement
from savage invasion, and a deep valley marked the present junction of Canal Street and Broadway.
The advent of a new class of artisans signalizes the arrival of Huguenot emigrants; the rebellion
of Leisler marks the encroachment of new political agencies, and the substitution of Pitt's
statue for that of George III. on the Bowling Green in 1770, the dawn of Independence, so sturdily
ushered in and cherished by the Liberty Boys, and culminating in the evacuation of the British
in 1783, the entrance of Washington with the American army, and, two years after, in the meeting
of the first Congress. These vicissitudes left their impress on the street. Every church but
the Episcopal was turned by the English into a riding-school, prison, or stable; each successive
charter was more liberal in its municipal privileges. The Boston stage long went from the Fort
to the Park, and so on by the old post-road, and was fourteen days en route; pestilence, imported
from the West India islands, depopulated the adjacent houses; water was sold from carts; and
dimly lighted was the pedestrian on his midnight way, while old-fashioned watchmen cried the
hour; and when, in 1807, Robert Fulton initiated steam navigation, the vast system of ferriage
was established which inundated the main avenue of the city with a perpetual tributary stream
of floating population from all the outlying shores of the Hudson and East Rivers, Staten and
Long Islands, and the villages above Manhattan. A lady who lived in New York forty years ago,
and returned this season, expressed her surprise that the matutinal procession of rustics she
used to watch from the window of her fashionable domicile in the lower part of Broadway had
ceased, so completely had suburban citizens usurped the farmers' old homes. The beautiful pigeons
that used to coo and cluster on the cobble stones had no resting-place for their coral feet
on the Russ pavement, so thickly moved the drays, and so unremitted was the rush of man and
beast. In fact, the one conservative feature eloquent of the past is the churchyard,--the old,
moss-grown, sloping gravestones,--landmarks of finished life-journeys, mutely invoking the
hurrying crowd through the tall iron railings of Trinity and St. Paul's. It is a striking evidence
of a "new country," that a youth from the Far West, on arriving in New York by sea, was so
attracted by these ancient cemeteries that he lingered amid them all day,--saying it was the
first time he had ever seen a human memorial more than twenty years old, except a tree! And
memorable was the ceremony whereby, a few years since, the Historical Society celebrated the
bicentennial birthday of Bradford, the old colonial printer, by renewing his headstone. At
noonday, when the life-tide was at flood, in lovely May weather, a barrier was stretched across
Broadway; and there, at the head of eager gold-worshipping Wall Street, in the heart of the
bustling, trafficking crowd, a vacant place was secured in front of the grand and holy temple
of Trinity. The pensive chant arose; a white band of choristers and priests came forth; and
eminent citizens gathered around to reconsecrate the tablet over the dust of one who, two hundred
years ago, had practised a civilizing art in this fresh land, and disseminated messages of
religion and wisdom. It was a singular picture, beautiful to the eye, solemn to the feelings,
and a rare tribute to the past, where the present sways with such absolute rule. Few Broadway
tableaux are so worthy of artistic preservation. Before, the vista of a money-changers' mart;
above and below, a long, crowded avenue of metropolitan life; behind, the lofty spire, gothic
windows, and archways of the church, and the central group as picturesquely and piously suggestive
as a mediæval rite.

Vainly would the most self-possessed reminiscent breast the living tide of the surging thoroughfare,
on a weekday, to realize in his mind's eye its ancient aspect; but if it chance to him to land
at the Battery on a clear and still Sabbath morning, and before the bells summon forth the
worshippers, and to walk thence to Union Square in company with an octogenarian Knickerbocker
of good memory, local pride, and fluent speech, he will obtain a mental photograph of the past
that transmutes the familiar scene by a quaint and vivid aerial perspective. Then the "Middle
Road" of the beginning of this century will reappear,--the traces of a wheat-field on the site
of St. Paul's, still a fresh tradition; Oswego Market, opposite Liberty Street, is alive with
early customers; the reminiscent beholds the apparition of Rutgers's orchard, whose remaining
noble elms yet shade the green vista of the City Hospital, and which was a place for rifling
bird's-nests in the boyhood of his pensive companion, whose father played at skittles on the
Bowling Green, hard by the Governor's house, while the Dutch householders sat smoking long
pipes in their broad porticos, cosily discussing the last news from Antwerp or Delft, their
stout rosy daughters meanwhile taking a twilight ramble, with their stalwart beaux, to the
utmost suburban limit of Manhattan, where Canal Street now intersects Broadway,--then an unpaved
lane with scattered domiciles, only grouped into civic contiguity around the Battery, and with
many gardens enhancing its rural aspect. Somewhat later, and Munn's Land Office, at the corner
of what is now Grand Street, was suggestive of a growing settlement and the era of speculation;
an isolated coach-factory marked the site of the St. Nicholas Hotel; people flocked along,
in domestic instalments, to Vauxhall, where now stands the Astor Library, to drink mead and
see the Flying Horses; and capitalists invested in "lots" on Bayard's Farm, where Niblo's and
the Metropolitan now flourish; the one-story building at the present angle of Prince Street
was occupied by Grant Thorburn's father; beyond lay the old road leading to Governor Stuyvesant's
Bowerie, with Sandy Hill at the upper end. In 1664, Heere Stras was changed to Broadway. At
the King's Arms and Burr's Coffee-House, near the Battery, the traitor Arnold was wont to lounge,
and in the neighborhood dwelt the Earl of Stirling's mother. At the corner of Rector Street
was the old Lutheran church frequented by the Palatine refugees. Beyond or within the Park
stood the old Brewery, Pottery, Bridewell, and Poor-house; relics of an Indian village were
often found; the Drover's Inn, cattle-walk, and pastures marked the straggling precincts of
the town; and on the commons oxen were roasted whole on holidays, and obnoxious officials hung
in effigy. Anon rose the brick mansions of the Rapelyes, Rhinelanders, Kingslands, Cuttings,
Jays, Bogarts, Depeysters, Duers, Livingstons, Verplancks, Van Rensselaers, De Lanceys, Van
Cortlands, etc.; at first along the "Middle Road," and then in bystreets from the main thoroughfare
down to the rivers; and so, gradually, the trees and shrubs that made a rus in urbe of the
embryo city, and the gables and tiles, porches and pipes, that marked the dynasty chronicled
by old Diedrich, gave way to palatial warehouses, magnificent taverns, and brown stone fronts.

The notes of old travellers best revive the scene ere it was lost in modern improvements. Mrs.
Knight, who visited New York in 1704, having performed the journey from Boston all the way
on horseback, enjoyed the "vendues" at Manhattan, where "they gave drinks"; was surprised to
see "fireplaces that had no jambs" and "bricks of divers colors and laid in checkers, being
glazed and looking very agreeable." The diversion in vogue was "riding in sleighs about four
miles out of town, where they have a house of entertainment at a place called the Bowery."
In 1769 Dr. Burnaby recognized but two churches, Trinity and St. George, and "went in an Italian
chaise to a turtle feast on the East River." It is curious to find the French radical of eighty
years ago drawing from the life of Broadway inferences similar to those of the even more emphatic
economical moralist of to-day. In 1794, Wansey, a commercial traveller, found the "Tontine
near the Battery" the most eligible hotel, and met there Dr. Priestley, breakfasted with Gates,
and had a call from Livingston; saw "some good paintings by Trumbull, at the Federal Hall,"
and Hodgkinson, at the theatre, in "A Bold Stroke for a Husband"; dined with Comfort Sands;
and Mr. Jay, "brother to the Ambassador," took him to tea at the "Indian Queen";--items of
information that mark the social and political transition since the days of Dutch rule, though
the Battery still remained the court end and nucleus of Manhattan.

But it is not local memory alone that the solitude of Broadway awakens in our aged guide; the
vacant walk is peopled, to his fancy, with the celebrities of the past whom he has there gazed
at or greeted,--Franklin, Jay, Tom Paine, Schuyler, Cobbett, Freneau, and Colonel Trumbull,
with their Revolutionary prestige; Volney and Genet, with the memory of French radicalism;
Da Ponte and the old Italian opera; Colles and Clinton and the Erie Canal days; Red Jacket
and the aborigines; Dunlap and Dennie, the literary pioneers; Cooke, Kemble, Kean, Matthews,
and Macready, followed so eagerly by urchin eyes,--the immortal heroes of the stage; Hamilton,
Clinton, Morris, Burr, Gallatin, and a score of political and civic luminaries whose names
have passed into history; Decatur, Hull, Perry, and the brilliant throng of victorious naval
officers grouped near the old City Hotel; Moreau, Louis Philippe, Talleyrand, Louis Napoleon,
Maroncelli, Foresti, Kossuth, Garibaldi, and many other illustrious European exiles; Jeffrey,
Moore, Dickens, Thackeray, Trollope, and the long line of literary lions, from Basil Hall to
Tupper; Chancellor Kent, Audubon, Fulton, Lafayette, Randolph, the Prince of Wales, and the
Queen of the Sandwich Islands, Turkish admirals, Japanese officials, artists, statesmen, actors,
soldiers, authors, foreign savans, and domestic eccentricities, who have perambulated this
central avenue of a cosmopolitan American city. Could they have all been photographed, what
a reflex of modern society would such a picture-gallery afford!

The old Dutch traders, with the instinct of their Holland habitudes, clung to the water-side,
and therefore their domiciles long extended at angles with what subsequently became the principal
avenue of the settlement; and until 1642 Pearl Street was the fashionable quarter. Meantime,
where now thousands of emigrants daily disembark, and the offices of ocean steamships indicate
the facility and frequency of Transatlantic travel, the Indian chiefs smoked the pipe of peace
with the victorious colonists under the shadow of Fort Amsterdam, and the latter held fairs
there, or gathered, for defence and pastime, round the little oasis of the metropolitan desert
where carmen now read "The Sun." No. 1 was the Kennedy House, subsequently the tavern of Mrs.
Koch,--whose Dutch husband was an officer in the Indian wars,--and was successively the head-quarters
of Clinton, Cornwallis, and Washington, and at last the Prime Mansion; and farther up was Mrs.
Ryckman's boarding-house,--genial sojourn of Irving, and the scene of his early pen-craft and
youthful companionships, when "New York was more handy, and everybody knew everybody, and there
was more good-fellowship and ease of manners." Those were the days of ropewalks and "selectmen,"
of stage-coaches and oil-lamps. The Yankee invasion had scarcely superseded the Knickerbocker
element. The Free Academy was undreamed of; and the City Hotel assemblies were the embryo Fifth
Avenue balls. An old Directory or a volume of Valentine's Manual, compared with the latest
Metropolitan Guide-Book and Trow's last issue, will best illustrate the difference between
Broadway then and now.

But it is not so much the more substantial memorials as the "dissolving views" that give its
peculiar character to the street. Entered at the lower extremity by the newly-arrived European,
on a rainy morning, the first impression is the reverse of grand or winsome. The squalor of
the docks and the want of altitude in the buildings, combined with the bustle and hubbub, strike
the eye as repulsive; but as the scene grows familiar and is watched under the various aspects
produced by different seasons, weather, and hours of the day, it becomes more and more significant
and attractive. Indeed, there is probably no street in the world subject to such violent contrasts.
It is one thing on a brilliant and cool October day and another in July. White cravats and
black coats mark "Anniversary week"; broad brims and drab, the "Yearly Meeting" of the Friends;
the "moving day" of the householders, the "opening day" of the milliners, Christmas and New
Year's, sleighing-time and spring, early morning and midnight, the Sabbath and week-days, a
cold spell and the "heated term,"--every hour, season, holiday, panic, pastime, and parade
brings into view new figures and phases,--diverse phenomena of crowd and character,--like the
shifting segments of a panorama. The news of victories during the war for the Union could be
read there in people's eyes and heard in their greetings. Sorrowful tidings seemed to magnetize
with sadness the long procession. Something in the air foretold the stranger how beat the public
pulse. The undercurrent of the prevalent emotion seems to vibrate, with electric sympathy,
along the human tide.

A walk in Broadway is a most available remedy for "domestic" vexation and provincial egotism.
"Every individual spirit," says Schiller, "waxes in the great stream of multitudes." Stand
awhile calmly by the rushing stream, and note its representative significance, or stroll slowly
along, with observant eye, to mark the commodities and nationalities by the way. The scene
is an epitome of the world. Here crouches a Chinese mendicant, there glides an Italian image-vender;
a Swedish sailor is hard pressed by a smoking Cuban, and a Hungarian officer is flanked by
a French loiterer; here leers a wanton, there moans a waif; now passes an Irish funeral procession,
and again long files of Teutonic "Turners"; the wistful eyes of a beggar stare at the piles
of gold in the money-changer's show-window; a sister of charity walks beside a Jewish Rabbi;
then comes a brawny negro, then a bare-legged Highlander; figures such as are met in the Levant;
school-boys with their books and lunch-boxes, Cockneys fresh from Piccadilly, a student who
reminds us of Berlin, an American Indian, in pantaloons; a gaunt Western, a keen Yankee, and
a broad Dutch physiognomy alternate; flower-venders, dog-pedlers, diplomates, soldiers, dandies,
and vagabonds, pass and disappear; a firemen's procession, fallen horse, dead-lock of vehicles,
military halt, or menagerie caravan, checks momently the advancing throng; and some beautiful
face or elegant costume looms out of the confused picture like an exquisite vision; great cubes
of lake crystal glisten in the ice-carts hard by blocks of ebon coal from the forests of the
primeval world; there a letter-carrier threads his way, and here a newsboy shouts his extra;
a milk-cart rattles by, and a walking advertisement stalks on; here is a fashionable doctor's
gig, there a mammoth express-wagon; a sullen Southerner contrasts with a grinning Gaul, a darkly-vested
bishop with a gayly-attired child, a daintily-gloved belle with a mud-soiled drunkard; a little
shoe-black and a blind fiddler ply their trades in the shadow of Emmet's obelisk, and a toy-merchant
has Montgomery's mural tablet for a background; on the fence is a string of favorite ballads
and popular songs; a mock auctioneer shouts from one door, and a silent wax effigy gazes from
another. Pisani, who accompanied Prince Napoleon in his yacht-voyage to America, calls Broadway
a bazaar made up of savagery and civilization, a mile and a half long; and M. Fisch, a French
pasteur, was surprised at the sight of palaces six or seven stories high devoted to commerce
and les figures fines et gracieuses, la démarche légère et libre des femmes, les allures vives
de toute la population. The shopkeepers are urbanely courteous, says one traveller. "Horses
and harness are fine, but equipages inferior," observes another; while a third remarks, after
witnessing the escapade of vehicles in Broadway: "American coachmen are the most adroit in
the world."

It has been said that a Paris gamin would laugh at our fêtes; and yet, if such a loyal custodian
as one of the old sacristans we meet abroad, who has kept a life-vigil in a famous cathedral,
or such a vigilant chronicler as was Dr. Gemmelaro, who for years noted in a diary the visitors
to Ætna, and all the phenomena of the volcano,--if such a fond sentinel were to have watched,
even for less than a century, and recorded the civic, military, and industrial processions
of Broadway, what a panoramic view we should have of the fortunes, development, and transitions
of New York! The last of the cocked-hats would appear with the final relics of Dutch and Quaker
costume; the celebration of the opening of the Erie Canal would seem consummated by the festivals
that signalized the introduction of Croton, and the success of the Atlantic Telegraph; the
funeral cortége of Washington would precede that of scores of patriots and heroes, from Hamilton
and Lawrence to John Quincy Adams and General Wadsworth; Scott would reappear victorious from
Mexico, Kossuth's plumed hat wave again to the crowd, grim Jackson's white head loom once more
to the eager multitude, and Lafayette's courteous greetings win their cheers; St. Patrick's
interminable line of followers would contrast with the robes and tails of the Japanese,--the
lanterns of a political battalion, with the badges of a masonic fraternity,--the obsolete uniform
of the "Old Continentals," with the red shirts of the firemen and the miniature banners of
a Sunday-school phalanx,--the gay citizen soldiers who turned out to honor Independence or
Evacuation Day, with the bronzed and maimed veterans bringing home their bullet-torn flags
from the bloody field of a triumphant patriotic war,--the first negro regiment raised therefor
cheerily escorted by the Union League Club, with the sublime funeral train of the martyred
President. Including party demonstrations, popular ovations, memorable receptions and obsequies,--Broadway
processions, historically speaking, uniquely illustrate the civic growth, the political freedom,
the cosmopolitan sympathies, and the social prosperity of New York.

The mutations and ameliorations of Broadway are singularly rapid. It is but a few years since
the eye of the passenger therein often caught sight of pleasant domestic nooks,--bulbs in bloom,
a canary, gold-fish, or a graceful head bent over a book or crochet-work, at the cheerful window,--where
now iron fronts and plate-glass of enormous size proclaim the prosperous warehouse. One of
those sudden and sweeping conflagrations, which so frequently make a breach in the long line
of edifices, destroyed within a few months the tall white walls of the American Museum, with
its flaring effigies of giants, dwarfs, and monsters, and its band of musicians in the balcony,
so alluring to the rustic visitor. The picturesque church of St. Thomas and the heavy granite
façade of the Stuyvesant Institute, the "Tabernacle," the Art-Academy, and the Society Library
buildings have given way to palaces of trade, and been transferred to the indefinitely extensive
region of "up town." Stewart's lofty marble stores redeemed the character of the east side,
long neglected in favor of the more crowded and showy opposite walk; and his example has been
followed by so many other enterprising capitalists, that the original difference, both of aspect
and prestige, has all but vanished.

Among the most noticeable of the later features are the prevalence of flower-venders, and the
increase of beggars; as well as the luxurious attractiveness of the leading confectioners'
establishments, which, in true American eclectic style, combine the Parisian café with the
London pastry-cooks and the Continental restaurant,--delectable rendezvous of women who lunch
extravagantly. Another and more refined feature is the increase of elegant Art stores, where
Gerome's latest miracle of Oriental delineation, a fresh landscape of Auchenbach, or a naive
gem by Frere, is freely exposed to the public eye, beside new and elaborate engravings, and
graphic war-groups of Rogers, or the latest crayon of Darley, sunset of Church, or rock-study
by Haseltine. These free glimpses of modern Art are indicative of the growing taste for and
interest therein among us. Pictures were never such profitable and precious merchandise here,
and the fortunes of artists are different from what they were in the days when Cole used to
bring his new landscape to town, deposit it in the house of a friend, and personally call the
attention thereto of the few who cared for such things, and when the fashionable portrait-painter
was the exclusive representative of the guild in Gotham.

The Astor House was the first of the large hotels on Broadway; and its erection marks a new
era in that favorite kind of enterprise and entertainment of which Bunker's Mansion House was
so long the comfortable, respectable, and home-like ideal. Yet it is noteworthy that inns rarely
have or keep a representative character with us, but blend popularity with fashion, as nowhere
else. One may be associated with Rebeldom, another with trade; this be frequented by Eastern,
and that by Western travellers; and nationalities may be identified with certain resorts. But
the tendency is towards the eclectic and homogeneous; individuality not less than domesticity
is trenched upon and fused in these extravagant caravanseries; and there is no fact more characteristic
of the material luxury and gregarious standard of New York life, than that the only temple
erected to her patron saint is a marble tavern!

Broadway has always had its eccentric or notable habitués. The Muse of Halleck, in her palmy
days, immortalized not a few; and many persons still recall the "crazy poet Clarke," the "Lime-Kiln
man," the courteous and venerable Toussaint,--New York's best "image of God carved in ebony,"--tall
"gentleman George" Barrett, and a host of "familiar faces" associated with local fame or social
traits. The representative clergy, physicians, lawyers, merchants, editors, politicians, bards,
and beauties, "men about town," and actors, were there identified, saluted, and observed; and
of all these, few seemed so appropriately there as the last; for often there was and is a melodramatic
aspect and association in the scene, and Burton, Placide, or the elder Wallack walked there
with a kind of professional self-complacency. Thackeray, who had a quick and trained eye for
the characteristic in cities, delighted in Broadway, for its cheerful variety, its perpetual
"comedy of life"; the significance whereof is only more apparent to the sympathetic observer,
because now and then through the eager throng glides the funeral car to the sound of muffled
drums, the "Black Maria" with its convict load, or the curtained hospital litter with its dumb
and maimed burden. And then, to the practised frequenter, how, one by one, endeared figures
and faces disappear from that diurnal stage! It seems but yesterday since we met there Dr.
Francis's cheering salutation, or listened to Dr. Bethune's and Fenno Hoffman's genial and
John Stephens's truthful talk,--watched General Scott's stalwart form, Dr. Kane's lithe frame,
Cooper's self-reliant step, Peter Parley's juvenile cheerfulness,--and grasped Henry Inman's
cordial hand, or listened to Irving's humorous reminiscence, and met the benign smile of dear
old Clement Moore. As to fairer faces and more delicate shapes,--to encounter which was the
crowning joy of our promenade,--and "cheeks grown holy with the lapse of years," memory holds
them too sacred for comment. "Passing away" is the perpetual refrain in the chorus of humanity
in this bustling thoroughfare, to the sober eye of maturity. The never-ending procession, to
the sensitive and the observant, has also infinite degrees of language. Some faces seem to
welcome, others to defy, some to lower, and some to brighten, many to ignore, a few to challenge
or charm,--as we pass. And what lessons of fortune and of character are written thereon,--the
blush of innocence and the hardihood of recklessness, the candid grace of honor and the mean
deprecatory glance of knavery, intelligence and stupidity, soulfulness and vanity, the glad
smile of friendship, the shrinking eye of fallen fortune, the dubious recognition of disgrace,
the effrontery of the adventurer, and the calm, pleasant bearing of rectitude,--all that is
beautiful and base in humanity, gleams, glances, and disappears as the crowd pass on.

Richard Cobden, when in New York, was caught and long detained in a mesh of drays and carriages
in Broadway, and he remarked that the absence of passionate profanity among the carmen and
drivers, and the good-natured patience they manifested, were in striking contrast with the
blasphemous violence exhibited in London under like circumstances; and he attributed it to
the greater self-respect bred in this class of men here by the prospect and purpose of a higher
vocation. It is curious to observe how professional are the impressions and observations of
Broadway pedestrians. Walk there with a portrait-painter, and he will infer character or discover
subjects of art in every salient physiognomy. The disparities of fortune and the signs of depravity
will impress the moralist. The pictorial effects, the adventurous possibilities, the enterprise,
care, or pastime of the scene, elicit comments in accordance with the idiosyncrasies or aptitudes
of the observer. What gradations of greeting, from the curt recognition to the hilarious salute!
What variety of attraction and repulsion, according as your acquaintance is a bore or a beauty,
a benefactor or a bankrupt! The natural language of "affairs," however, is the predominant
expression. From the days of Rip Van Dam to those of John Pintard, it is as a commercial city
that New York has drawn both her rural and foreign population. And her chief thoroughfare retains
the distinctive aspect thereof, as the extension of the city has eliminated therefrom all other
social elements,--fashion being transferred to the Fifth Avenue, indigence to the Five Points,
and equipages to the Central Park. Police reports abound with the ruses and roughnesses of
metropolitan life, as developed in the most frequented streets, where rogues seek safety in
crowds. A rheumatic friend of ours dropped a guinea in the Strand, and, being unable to stoop,
placed his foot upon the coin, and waited and watched for the right man to ask to pick it up
for him. He was astonished at the difficulty of the choice. One passer was too elegant, another
too abstracted, one looked dishonest, and another haughty. At last he saw approaching a serious,
kindly-looking, middle-aged loiterer, with a rusty black suit and white cravat,--apparently
a poor curate taking his "constitutional." Our friend explained his dilemma, and was assured,
in the most courteous terms, that the stranger would accommodate him with pleasure. Very deliberately
the latter picked up the guinea, wiped it carefully on his coat-sleeve, and transferred it
to his vest-pocket,--walking off with a cheerful nod. Indignant at the trick, the invalid called
out "Stop, thief!" The rascal was chased and caught, and, when taken to the police office,
proved to be Bristol Bill,--one of the most notorious and evasive burglars in London. Many
like instances of false pretences are traditional in Broadway,--where there are sometimes visible
scenic personages, like a quack doctor whose costume and bearing were borrowed from Don Pasquale,
and Dr. Knickerbocker in the elegant and obselete breeches, buckles, and cocked hat of the
olden time.

A peculiar hardihood and local wit are claimed for what are called the B'hoys. A cockney, in
pursuit of knowledge under difficulties, was walking up Broadway with the hospitable citizen
to whose guidance he had been specially commended by a London correspondent.

"I want," said the stranger, "to see a b'hoy,--a real b'hoy."

"There's one," replied his companion, pointing to a strapping fellow, in a red shirt and crush
hat, waiting for a job at the corner.

"Ah, how curious!" replied John Bull, examining this new species with his double eye-glass,--"very
curious; I never saw a real b'hoy before. I should like to hear him speak."

"Then, why don't you talk to him?"

"I don't know what to say."

"Ask him the way to Laight Street."

The inquisitive traveller crossed the street, and, deferentially approaching the new genus,
lisped, "Ha--ah--how d' do, ha? I want to go to Laight Street."

"Then why in hell don't you go?" loudly and gruffly asks the b'hoy.

Cockney nervously rejoined his friend, saying,--"Very curious, the Broadway b'hoys!"

To realize the extent and character of the Celtic element in our population, walk down this
thronged avenue on a holiday, when the Irish crowd the sidewalks, waiting for a pageant; and
all you have ever read or dreamed of savagery will gleam, with latent fire, from those myriads
of sullen or daredevil eyes, and lurk in the wild tones of those unchastened voices, as the
untidy or gaudily dressed and interminable line of expectants, flushed with alcohol, yield
surlily to the backward wave of the policeman's baton. The materials of riot in the heart of
the vast and populous city then strike one with terror. We see the worst elements of European
life cast upon our shore, and impending, as it were, like a huge wave, over the peacefulness
and prosperity of the nation. The corruptions of New York local government are explained at
a glance. The reason why even patriotic citizens shrink from the primary meetings whence spring
the practical issues of municipal rule is easily understood; and the absolute necessity of
a reform in the legislative machinery, whereby property and character may find adequate representation,
is brought home to the most careless observer of Broadway phenomena. But it is when threading
the normal procession therein that distrust wanes, in view of so much that is hopeful in enterprise
and education, and auspicious in social intelligence and sympathy. It may be that on one of
our bright and balmy days of early spring, or on a cool and radiant autumnal afternoon, you
behold, in your walk from Union Square to the Battery, an eminent representative of each function
and phase of high civilization;--wealth vested in real estate in the person of an Astor, peerless
nautical architecture in a Webb; the alert step and venerable head of the poet of nature, as
Bryant glides by, and the still bright eye of the poet of patriotism and wit, as Halleck greets
you with the zest of a rural visitor refreshed by the sight of "old, familiar faces"; anon
comes Bancroft, a chronicler of America's past, yet moving sympathetically through living history
the while; Verplanck, the Knickerbocker Nestor, and the gentlemen of the old school represented
by Irving's old friend, the companionable and courteous Governor Kemble; pensive, olive-cheeked,
sad-eyed Hamlet, in the person of Edwin Booth, our native histrionic genius; Vandyke-looking
Charles Elliot, the portrait-painter; Paez, the exiled South American general; Farragut, the
naval hero; Hancock, Hooker, Barlow, or some other gallant army officer,--volunteer heroes,
maimed veterans of the Union war; merchants, whose names are synonymous with beneficence and
integrity; artists, whose landscapes have revealed the loveliness of this hemisphere to the
Old World; women who lend grace to society and feed the poor; men of science, who alleviate,
and of literature, who console, the sorrows of humanity; the stanch in friendship, the loyal
in national sentiment, the indomitable in duty, the exemplary in Christian faith, the tender
and true in domestic life,--the redeeming and recuperative elements of civic society.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY HEATHEN AT HOME.

Kicking my "Dutch wife,"[3] that comfortable Batavian device, to the foot of the bed, and turning
over with a delicious stretch just as day began to dawn, I opened my eyes with a drowsy sense
of refreshing favor,--a half-dream, mixed of burning and breeze,--and discovered old Karlee,
my pearl of bhearers,[4] waiting in still patience on the outside of the tent-like mosquito
curtain, punka in hand, and tenderly waving a balmy blessing across the sirocco-plagued sand
of my slumber.

"Good morning, Karlee."

"Salaam, Sahib-bhote-bhote salaam![5] Master catch plenty good isleep this night, Karlee hope."

"So, so,--so, so. But you look happy this morning; your eyes are bright, and your kummerbund[6]
jaunty, and you sport a new turban. What's the good news, old man?"

"Yes, Sahib. Large joy Karlee have got,--happy kismut,[7]--too much jolly good luck, master,
please."

"Aha! I'm glad of it. None too jolly for my patient Karlee, I'll engage,--not a whit too happy
and proud for my faithful, grateful, humble old man. And what is it?"

"By master's favor, one man-child have got; one fine son he come this night, please master's
graciousness."

"A son--your wife!--what, you, Karlee, you?"

"Please master's pardon, no,--Karlee wife, no; Karlee daughter, Karlee ison-in-law, one man-child
have catch this night, by Sahib's merciful goodness."

"So! your daughter and her husband, the young kitmudgar,[8] they that were married last year.
Good! let us exalt our horn, let us glorify ourselves; for is it not written, 'By a son a man
shall obtain victory over all people; by a son's son he shall enjoy immortality; and by a son's
son's son he shall reach the solar abodes'? Verily it is pleasant to have a boy-butcha in the
house,--the heir and lord. So we will even make merry to-day; to-day we will take holiday.
Let the buttons wait, and the beard go awry; send the barber away, and tell the tailor to come
to-morrow; for one day Sahib, the master of earth, abdicates in favor of Puttro, the 'Deliverer
from Hell,' the true king for every pious Hindoo. And here are some rupees to buy him a happy
horoscope with, and to pay the gooroo[9] for a good strong charm, warranted to avert the Evil Eye."

"Ah! Master's bountiful favor too much compassion have,--too much pitiful munif--"

"That's all right, old man. Salaam now; and good luck to the baby."

Now here, thought I, is a chance to observe my pagan at home, under the most favorable circumstances.
Karlee will devote the occasion to the domestic felicities; he will spread holiday fare, and
there will be neighborly congratulations, and a hospitable relaxation in the family of the
orthodox heathen rigor. I will make a "surprise party" of myself, and on the recommendation
of a string of corals for the new butcha I'll catch him in the very dishabille of his Hindooism.
And I did.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had often heard that Karlee lived well, and that his household enjoyed substantial comfort
in a degree notably superior to the general circumstances of his class. With eminent intelligence
and devotion he had served for more than forty years various American gentlemen residing in
Calcutta, by whom, in his neat-handedness, he was esteemed a sort of he-Phillis; and for his
housewifely dusting of books and furniture, his orderly keeping of drawers and trunks, his
sharp eye to punkas and mosquito-nets, and his exacting discipline of sweepers and messengers,
barbers, tailors, and washermen, he had been rewarded with generous buksheesh over and above
his stipulated, wages, which were liberal; so that among bhearers he was distinguished for
respectability, by income as well as influence, and represented the best society. Between his
own savings and those of his wife,--who, as an ayah, or nurse, in an English family high in
the Civil Service, was extravagantly prized for her fidelity, skill, and patience,--Karlee
had laid up a little fortune of ten thousand rupees; but that was partly by dint of a clever
speculation now and then in curiosities and choice presents, which he disposed of among those
of his American or English patrons who happened to be homeward bound. As it is not permitted
to a bhearer to engage directly in trade, these neat little transactions were in all cases
shrewdly managed by a friend of Karlee's, a smart sircar,[10] in the employ of a banyan,[11]
the bhearer resting strictly in the background, a silent partner, and limiting his co-operation
to the prompt furnishing of capital, which consisted not of rupees merely, but of many a cunning
hint as well, as to the tastes, ways, and weaknesses of his customers. It was a mutual understanding:
we knew of Karlee's interest in these sentimental "operations," and we openly patronized him;
he knew which of us had wives, and which sweethearts, across the black water, and he mysteriously
patronized us. On that subject my heathen was always at home; and so it happened, by a happy
dispensation of cause and effect, that at home he lived like a gentleman.

Through narrow, dingy miles of scrambling bazaar, redolent of all the unfragrances of that
dusty, sweaty, greasy, jabbering quarter, I rolled in my light buggy, behind a nimble Arab
mare, to a suburban retreat on the eastern skirt of the Black Town, where, just beyond a cluster
of mean huts of the sooa-logue, the low laboring rabble, I found Karlee's genteel abode, and
was refreshed by the contrast it presented to the hovel of his next neighbor, whose single
windowless apartment, and walls of alternate rows of straw and reeds, plastered with mud, proclaimed
most unpicturesquely the hard fate of him who springs from the soles of Brahma's feet. Karlee's
walls were of solid clay of substantial thickness. His floor was raised a foot or two above
the ground, and there was a neatly thatched roof over all, swelling out in an elongated dome,
and oddly resembling an inverted boat. As in the rural districts, Karlee had fenced in his
privacy with a thick hedge of clipped bamboo surmounting a quadrangular embankment. Before
the grateful porch two beautiful tamarind-trees and a palm bestowed their kindly shade, and
in the hedge the bamboos, with their golden stems and bright green leaves, rustled cheerfully.

On the other side of the road, and shyly retired from it in a close bamboo covert, dwelt Karlee's
partner in the curiosity and general fancy line, the sharp sircar, with whom (both being soodras,[12]
and of the same sect) his social relations were intimate and free. The sircar, having thriven
under the patronage of more than one rich and liberal baboo,[13] to whose favor he had recommended
himself by his business alertness and his ever-politic compliance, had attained unto the honor
of a brick house of two stories, plastered and whitewashed without and within, with a flat
roof, having a low parapet, and laid with a rain-proof composition of clay and lime. Though
his stairs are narrow, his veranda is commodious; and when he shall have made his fortune in
the curiosity and general fancy line, he will have wings, with a central area open to the sky,
and a double veranda with a lattice. Then, his accommodations being sufficiently enlarged,
the proudest wish of his heart shall be gratified in the reunion of his entire family--children
and grandchildren, even uncles and aunts, nephews and nieces--under the same roof.

As I drove up to Karlee's hedge, and, tossing the reins to my syce,[14] passed under the tamarind-trees
to the little porch, the old man came out to meet me with unwonted precipitation; and, although
he maintained with admirable presence of mind that imperturbable gravity, that tranquil, expectant
self-possession, which is the study of a Hindoo's life, and to which he gives all his mind
from the time when he first begins to have any, ever solicitous to be master of himself though
China fall, it was not difficult on this occasion to detect in the fluttering lights and shades
of his countenance an expression mixed of astonishment, gratification, and confusion, very
natural to a poor bhearer who had never before been taken by a Sahib in the very bosom of his
family. There was something at once pitiful and comical in the subdued "fidget" with which,
applying his joined palms to his forehead, and lowly louting, he made his most obsequious salaam
again and again.

"Master have command for Karlee? Any wrong thing happen, master? Dhobee[15] come? Mehtur[16]
not sweep room? Punka-wallah[17] run away? Sahibs make visit? Kitmudgar not--"

"No, no; everything all right and proper. I have come to bring good wishes and a lucky eye
to all this house, and a small salaamee, a pretty gift, for the new Suntoshum,--the jewel that
hangs on its mother's bosom."

"Ah! master make slave too much happy honor. Master's pitiful graciousness all same Barra Lard
Sahib" (the Governor-General). "Poor, foolish bhearer kiss master's feet."

"Well, another time for that. Lead the way now, and let me make my salaam to your coolest mat
and your largest punka, for I am hot and tired."

"S'pose Sahib like, Belatta pawnee have got?"

"Acha; Belatta pawnee lou."[18]

Here, indeed, was a wide stride in the direction of refinement and Evangelism! Soda-water in
a bhearer's house! Karlee had not served the Sahibs, and observed "Young Bengal" baboos, in
vain. From Belatta pawnee to Isherryshrob and Simpkin (sherry and champagne) is not far, and
well does Young Bengal know the way.

