The first warning she was given was a sudden impact on a high branch of an oak-tree a yard
or two from where she stood, and the falling to earth, delayed by the thick crepitant layers
of green-gold, sun-soaked leaves, of a cricket ball. With the perversity of rolling things
it dribbled along the broken ground and dropped at last into a mossy pit half filled with dead
leaves which marked where a gale had once torn up a young tree by the roots; and the next moment
she heard, not distantly, the open-mouthed howl that comes from a cricket-field in a moment
of crisis. Then she remembered that it was a habit of the young bloods of Roothing to evade
their elders' feeling about Sabbath observance by going in the afternoon to an overlooked wedge
of ground that ran into the woods and playing some sort of bat-and-ball game. This must be
Sunday. If she did not go home at once she would begin to meet the village lovers, who would
not understand how well she wished them, and would look at her with the hostility that the
lucky feel for the unlucky. But when she turned to follow the homeward path she heard from
all over the wood scattered shouts. The lads were looking for their ball. One she could hear,
from the breaking down of brushwood, was quite close to her. Her best plan was to hide. So
she stood quite still under the low branches of an elder-tree, while George Postgate doubled by.

Poor George! He was seventeen, and big for that, but his mind had stayed at twelve, and he
was perpetually being admitted in probation to the society of lads of his own age, and then
for some act of thick-wittedness being expelled again. It was plain from the way that his great
horny fingers were scratching his head and his vast mouth was drooping at the corners that
it was his fault that the ball crashed so disastrously out of bounds, and that he felt himself
on the verge of another expulsion. "Oh, ter dash with the thing!" he exclaimed mournfully,
and kicked a root, and lifted his face to the patch of blue sky above and snuffled. Marion's
heart dissolved. She could not let this poor stupid thing suffer an ache which she was prevented
from relieving only by a fear of rudeness which was probably quite unjustified. "George!" she
called softly, staying among the branches. He gaped about him. "George!" she called a little
louder. "The ball's in the pit, among the leaves." But he was transfixed by the wonder of the
bodyless voice and would not pay any attention to her directions, but continued to gape. She
saw that she would have to go and show him herself, and after only half a moment's reluctance
she stepped forward. She did not really mind people seeing her, because she knew that it was
only a convention that she was ugly because she was going to have a baby. For there was now
a richer colour on her cheeks and lips than there had ever been before and her body was like
a vase. It was only when they had awful thoughts about her that she hated meeting them, and
George would not have awful thoughts about her if she did him a good turn. So she went over
to him, pointing to the pit. "I saw it roll down there, George. Look! There it is."

But he did not pick up the ball. He appeared to be petrified by the sight of her. "Make haste,"
she said, "they'll be waiting for you." At that he dropped his lids, and his lips thickened,
and his face grew red. Then he raised his head again and looked at her with eyes that were
not dull, as she had always seen them before, but hot and bright, and he began to shift his
weight slowly backwards and forwards from one foot to the other. Her heart grew sick, because
all the world was like this, and she turned again to the path home. But through the tree-trunks
in that direction there came two other boys in search of the ball--Ned Turk, who to-day was
the station-master at Roothing station, and Bobbie Wickes; and at the sight of her they stood
stock-still as George Postgate had done, and, like him, dropped their heads and flushed and
lifted lewd faces. A horror came on her. It was as if they had assumed masks to warn her that
they had some secret and sinister business with her. Then one pointed his hand at her and made
an animal noise, and the other laughed with his mouth wide open. Neither said anything. Their
minds were evidently engaged in processes beneath those which find expression in language.
She stiffened herself to face them, though she felt frightened that these two boys, whom she
had known all her life, with whom she had ridden on the hay-wains in summer and caught stickle-backs
in the marsh dykes, should change to these speechless beings with red leering masks who meant
her ill.

For the first time she felt herself too young for her destiny. "I am only nineteen," she cried
silently. Tears might have disgraced her but that the child moved in her as if it had looked
out at the frightening figures through her eyes, and she suddenly hated Harry for leaving her
and his son unprotected from such brutes as people seemed to be, and was vivified by the hatred.
She made to walk past the boys back towards Yaverland's End, but as she moved they sent up
shrill wordless calls to their fellows who were still in the fields, which were immediately
answered. She realised that any minute the woods would be full of lads whom the sight of her
would change to obscene creatures, and that being consolidated in this undisturbed place they
would say and do things that would hurt her so much that they would hurt her child. There was
nothing for it but to leave the cover of the wood and cross the waste space and walk down Roothing
High Street and go back to Yaverland's End by the lane. Her mood of forgiving love for the
village, which the cricket-ball had interrupted, had been so real that she felt as if a pact
had been established between it and her, and she was quite sure that she would be safe from
the boys there. If they were tiresome and followed her, no doubt somebody like Mrs. Hobbs,
who kept the general stores, would take her in and let her rest till it was dark, and then
see her home. She turned round and walked out of the wood, and because she could not, in her
heavy-footed state, trample through the undergrowth, she had to follow the path that led her
to within a yard or two of George Postgate. She could see from the workings of his large face
that he was forming some plan of action. And sure enough, when she passed him, he cried out
"Dirty Marion!" and twitched the sun-bonnet from her head. The sudden movement made her start
violently, for though she had not known what fear was until she conceived, she now knew a panic-terror
at anything that threatened her body. That made the boys shout with laughter and call to their
friends to hurry up and see the fun.

The sunshine that beat down on the unshaded field was hot on her bare head. It would be awkward
too, going into the village hatless and with ruffled hair. But she must not be angry with George
Postgate, for indeed the incident had been to him only a means of gaining that popularity with
the fellows that his poor stupid soul so longed for and had so often been refused, and he could
not know that the fright would make her feel so ill. Since the first agonising months of her
pregnancy, when nausea and faintness had pervaded her days, she had never felt as ill as this.
A sweat had broken out on her face and her hands; she had to pant for breath and her limbs
staggered under her. But she would be all right if she could sit down for one moment. There
was a hawthorn stump a little way off, and to this she made her way, but as she sunk down on
it a clod of earth struck her in the shoulder. She spun round, and another broke on her face.
Grit filled her mouth, which was open with amazement. She had been deaf with physical distress,
so she had not heard that the boys had gathered together on the wood's edge and were now marching
after her in a shouting crowd. Something in her attitude when she turned on them made them
fall dumb and stock-still for a moment. But as a gust of wind ruffled her hair and blew her
skirts about her body a roar of laughter went up from them, and earth and dry dung flew through
the air at her.

As she set her face towards the High Street again, which still seemed very far away, she sobbed
with relief to see that old Mr. Goode, the carrier, had come down to the end of his garden
to see what the noise meant, and that he had almost at once gone back into his house. Of course
he would come out and save her. In the meantime she pushed on towards the houses, that because
of her sickness and her fear rocked and wavered towards her flimsily like a breaking wave.
A heavy clod struck her in the back, and she shrieked silently with terror. If they hurt her
she might give birth to her baby and it would not live. She had not had it quite seven months
yet, so it would not live. At that thought anguish pierced her like a jagged steel and she
began to try to run, muttering little loving names to her adored and threatened child. She
looked towards the road to see if old Mr. Goode was coming, and was surprised to see that he
was standing at the gate of the field with two other men and a boy. And though they were all
looking towards her, they made no movement to come to her help. Perhaps they did not see what
was happening to her. It did not matter. She would be there in a few moments. One of the boys
had found a tin can and was beating on it, and the sounds made her head feel bad. She staggered
on, looking on the ground because of the sun's strong glare.

When she found that her feet had reached the patch of rutted ground that was around the gate,
she sobbed with thankfulness. She threw out her hands to the multitude of people who had suddenly
gathered there, and cried out imploringly, for if someone would only take her to a place where
she could lie down she would be all right and she would keep her child. But none of them came
to her, and her deafened ears caught a sound of roaring. She could not see who they were and
what they were doing, for all things looked as if she saw them through flowing water. But she
knew the tall figure by the gatepost must be Mr. Goode, so she stumbled to him and raised her
head and tried to find his kind face. But, like the boys, he wore a mask. Veins that she had
never noticed before stood out red on his forehead and his beard twitched, and the funny lines
that darted about his eyes, which had become small and winking, made his face a palimpsest
in which an affected disgust overlaid some deep enjoyment. He did not seem to be looking at
her; indeed, he averted his eyes from her, but thoughts about her made him laugh and send out
a jeering cry--wordless like the call of the boys. She realised that he and these people whom
she could not see, but who must be people who had known her all her life, had come out not
to save but to see her ill-treated and to rejoice. She stood stock-still and groaned. Her head
felt wet, and she put up her hand and found that a stone had drawn blood behind her ear. The
boys pressed close about her and beat the tin can in her ears, and one stretched out a stick
and touched her, which made Mr. Goode and the unseen enemies laugh. But at that she shrieked.
She shrieked with such terrible anger at those who insulted the mother of her child, that all
their jaws fell and they shrank back and let her pass.

But when she had gone a few paces up the road someone shouted something after her, and there
was a noise of laughter and then of the shuffling of many feet behind her, and jeers and cat-calls
and the beating of the tin can. She went on, looking to the right and the left for some old
friend to come out and take her to shelter, but now she knew that there would be none. These
people would drive her on and on. And when she got home to Yaverland's End, if they would let
her go there, and did not trample her down on the roadside first, she would lose her child.
The core of her body and soul would be torn out from her, and all promise of pleasure and all
occasion of pride. For there was no pleasure in the world save that to which she had looked
forward these seven months, of seeing that perfect little body that she knew so well and kissing
its smooth skin and waiting for it to open those eyes--those black eyes; and there could be
no greater degradation than to bring forth death, when for months the sole sustenance against
the world's contempt had been that she was going to give birth to a king of life. There danced
before her eyes all the sons of whom she was to be bereft in the person of this son. The staggering
child, the lean, rough-headed boy of ten with his bat, the glorious man.

Now her loss was certain. All the people were running out into the gardens of the little houses
on the right and throwing up the windows over the shuttered shops on the left, and all wore
the flushed and amused masks that meant they were determined that she should lose her child.
Mrs. Hobbs, who kept the general store, the kind old woman whom she had thought would take
her in, and Mrs. Welch, the village drunkard, were leaning over adjacent garden walls, holding
back the tall, divine sunflowers that they might hobnob over this delight, and their faces
were indistinguishable because of those masks. Even Lily Barnes, standing on the doorstep of
the nice new Lily Villa her husband, Job Barnes the builder, had built for their marriage,
with her six months old baby in her arms, was thus disguised, and seeming, like Mr. Goode,
to look through her old friend at some obscene and delicious fact, sent up that hooting wordless
cry.

Marion was so appalled that a woman carrying her baby should connive at the death of another's
that she stood quite still and stared at her, until the boys behind her thrust her with sticks.
When she passed the alley between the post-office and the carrier's she saw the cattle-man,
Goodtart, looking out at her from its shadows; he did not move, but his dark brown eyes were
more alive than she had ever seen them. A stranger stepped out of the inn and laughed so heartily
that he had to loose his neckerchief. Of course she must look funny, walking bareheaded, with
earth and blood caking her hair, and her skin sweating and yellow with nausea and her burdened
body, her face grimacing with anguish every time Ned Turk danced in front of her and beat the
tin can in her ears.

"Oh, my baby, my baby!" she moaned. Ned Turk heard the cry and repeated it, screaming comically,
"Oh, my baby, my baby!" All the crowd took it up, "Oh, my baby, my baby!" She shut her ears
with her hands, and wished that wherever Harry was, he might fall dead for having left her
and his child to this.

Then from the porch of the cottage at the angle of the High Street and the Thudersley Road,
the cottage where Cliffe, the blind man, lived with his pretty wife, there stepped out Peacey.
For a moment he shrank back into the shadow, holding a handkerchief in front of his face, but
she had recognised the tall, full body that was compact and yet had no solidity, that suggested
a lot of thick fleshy material rolled in itself like an umbrella. It was her last humiliation
that he should see this thing happening to her. She lifted her chin and tried to walk proudly.
But he had come forward out into the roadway and was coming towards her and her followers.
He did not seem quite aware of what he was approaching. He walked delicately on the balls of
his large and light feet, almost as though the occasion was joyful; and he held his face obliquely
and with an air of attention, as if he waited at some invisible table. There hung about him
that threatening serial quality which made it seem that in his heart he was ridiculing those
who tried to understand his actions before he disclosed their meaning in some remote last chapter.
It struck her, even in the midst of her agony, that she disliked him even more than she disliked
what was happening to her.

She had thought that he would smile gloatingly into her sweaty face and pass on. But she saw
swimming before her a fat, outstretched hand, and behind it a stout blackness of broadcloth,
and heard her pursuers halt and cease the beating of their tin cans, and came to a swaying
standstill, while above her there boomed, gently and persuasively, Peacey's rich voice. She
could not pin her fluttering mind to what it said, because she felt sickish at the oil of service,
the grease of butlerhood that floated on it, but phrases came to her. He was asking the village
people what would happen when the squire came home and heard of this; and reminding them that
they were all the squire's tenants. A silence fell on her pursuers. From the rear old Mr. Goode's
kind voice said something about "A bit of boys' fun, Mr. Peacey"; Ned Turk piped, "We don't
mean no 'arm," and the crowd dispersed. It shuffled its heels on the cobbles; it raised jeers
which were mitigated and not sent in her direction, but were still jeers; it beat its tin cans
in a disoriented way, as if it were trying to save its self-respect by pretending that Mr.
Peacey had been so much mistaken in the object of their demonstration that there was no harm
in going on with it.

She was left standing in the middle of the road, alone with Peacey. She realised that she was
safe. If she could rest now she would keep her child. She knew relief but not exultation. It
was as if life had been handed back to her, but not before some drop of vileness had been mixed
with the cup. There was nothing to redeem the harm of that afternoon: the quality of her rescue
had exactly matched the peril from which she had been rescued. When Peacey's voice had boomed
out above her it had expressed agreeable and complete harmony with the minds of the crowd;
it had betrayed that he, too, could imagine no pleasure more delightful than stoning a pregnant
girl, that he had his position to think of, and he begged them to have similar prudence. He
had risked nothing of his reputation as a just man in Roothing to save her. To this loathsome
world Harry, who had been her lover for two years, had left her and her divine child. She looked
up at Peacey and laughed.

His eyes dwelt on her with what might have been forgiveness. "You'd best come into Cliffe's
cottage," he said, and went before her. It struck her, as she followed him, that to people
watching them down the street it would look as if she was following him almost against his
will or without his knowledge. Well, she must lie down, and this was the only door that was
open to her. She must follow him.

Once they were within the porch he bent over her solicitously, and through his loose-parted
lips came the softest murmur: "Poor little girl!" Had he said that for her to hear, or had
some real tenderness in his heart spoken to itself? Was he really a kind man? She looked at
him searchingly, imploringly, but from his large, shallow-set grey eyes, which he kept fixedly
on her face, she could learn nothing. In any case she must take his arm, or she would fall.
She even found herself shrinking towards his pulpy body as he pushed open the door, because
she was afraid the people inside might not welcome her. She did not know the Cliffes, for they
were Canewdon people who had moved here four or five years back, when Grandmother was too old
and she was too young to make friends with a young married woman. But its trim garden, where
on golden summer evenings she had seen the blind man clipping the hedge, his clouded face shyly
proud at such a victory over his affliction, while his wife stood by and smiled, half at his
pleasure and half at her own loveliness, and the windows, lit rosily at night, had often set
Marion wishing that Harry and she were properly married. Because she had received the impression
that this was a happy home, she was uneasy, for of late she had learned that happy people hate
the unhappy. But the shaft of sunlight that traversed the parlour into which they stepped was
as thickly inhabited with dancing motes as if they were stepping into some vacated house given
over to decay. There was dust everywhere, and the grandfather clock had stopped, and the peonies
in the vase on the table had died yesterday; and the woman who stood in the middle of the room,
looking down at her hands and turning her wedding ring on her finger, was not pretty or joyous.
Her face was a smudge of sullenness under hair that was elaborately dressed yet was dull for
lack of brushing, and her body drooped within the stiff tower of her thickly-boned Sunday-best
dress. She looked at Marion without curiosity from an immense distance of preoccupation. There
came from a room at the back of the house the strains of "Nearer, my God, to Thee," played
on the harmonium, and at that she made a weak, abstracted gesture of irritation.

"Go and get a basin of water and a bit o' rag. The girl's head's bleeding," said Peacey, and
she went out of the room obediently. He collected all the cushions in the room and piled them
on the horsehair sofa, and helped her to lie comfortably down on them. Then he walked to the
window, and stood there looking out until Mrs. Cliffe came back into the room. He took the
basin without thanks, and set it down on a chair and began to bathe Marion's head, while Mrs.
Cliffe stood by watching incuriously.

"Now then, Trixy," he said, not unpleasantly, "you'd best go into the back parlour and listen
to your beloved husband playing hymns so trustfully."

She went away, still without speaking, and Marion, no longer feeling defensive before a stranger,
closed her eyes. Really his fat hands were very gentle, very clever and quick. After a few
moments he had finished, and she was able to turn her face to the wall and talk to her baby
that had been saved to her, and to exult that after all she would see those eyes. She shivered
to think how nearly she had lost him, and was transfixed by her hatred of Harry. She turned
hastily and faced the room.

Peacey was watching her with his quiet eyes. He said in a silken voice, "This sort of thing
wouldn't happen to you if you were married to me."

She lay quite still, looking at the ceiling. She knew that what he said was true.

"You've looked at me as if I were a pickpocket, you have," he went on, "just because I want
to marry you. I don't hold it against you. You're young. That young, that it's a shame this
has happened to you. But after to-day perhaps you'll judge me a bit fairer. You see, I'm older
than you, and I've seen a bit of the world, and I know how things are. And I knew you'd have
a nasty jar like you had to-day before you were through with it. And I don't doubt you'll have
a few more before you're done. It ain't too good for the little one, if you'll excuse me mentioning
it. You can't expect a man of any feelings to look on without trying to do what he can."

She looked up to scan his face for some sign of sincerity, and found herself for the first
time wishing that she might find it and have reason to distrust her own dislike of him. But
he was sitting sideways, with his head turned away from her, and she could see nothing of him
but his hot black clothes and his fat hand slowly stroking the thigh of his crossed leg in
its tight trouser. A sigh shook the dark bulk of his back.

"Me of all men," he said softly, "who had such a mother."

There was a long pause. She grew curious.

"Is she dead?" she asked.

"Died when I was ten. Not a soul's ever cared for me since then. I'm not sorry. It's made me
remember her all the better. And she was one of God's saints."

His voice was husky. She muttered, "I am sorry," and was annoyed to find that she really was.

"Why need you be?" he asked. "There's those that haven't that much to look back on. All I want
from you, Miss Marion, is to let me help you. Or at least not to think ill of me for wanting
to help you."

He sat still for a moment and continued to stroke his thigh.

"Marion," he began abruptly, and then paused as if to brace himself. "Marion, I hope you understand
what I'm asking you to do. I'm asking you to marry me. But not to be my wife. I never wouldn't
bother you for that. I'm getting on in life, you see, so that I can make the promise with some
chance of keeping it. And besides, there's more than that to it. How," he asked, lifting his
head and speaking mincingly, "should I presume to go where Sir Harry's been? I would never
ask you to be a wife to me. Just to accept the protection of my name, that's all I ask of you."

They sat for a while in the embrowned sunshine of the dusty room.

He rose and stood over her, drooping his sleek head benevolently. "Ah, well," he said, "I'd
best leave you alone. God knows I never meant to intrude on you. Perhaps you would take a little
doze now, and after tea I'll take you home." He looked on her moistly, tenderly. "Think kindly
of me if you dream." Some emotion coagulated his voice to a thick, slow flow. "You'll be the
only woman who ever has thought of me in her dreams if you do. I've never had anything to do
with women all my life. You see, I know I've got an ugly mug. I wouldn't dare to make love
to any woman in case I saw--what I've seen in your face--what I saw in your face that night
I came out on you from the belvedere. Oh, I don't blame you, Miss Marion. You're young--you're
beautiful. You've had a real gentleman for your sweetheart. But I don't see why I shouldn't
help you. Still, if you don't see it so...." He sighed, and brought his hands together and
bowed over them. His eyes passed deliberately over her matronly body, as if he knew his thoughts
about her were so delicate that no suspicion of indelicacy could arise out of his contact with
her. "Poor little Miss Marion," he murmured in an undertone, and wheeled about and padded to
the door. He turned there and stood, his body neckless and sloping like a seal's, and said
softly, "And don't think it was me who put Lady Teresa up to coming down to Yaverland's End
to-morrow morning. It is her ladyship's own idea. I said to her, 'Leave the poor girl alone.'
I have always said to her, 'Leave the poor girl alone.'" His voice faded. He moved vaporously
out of the room.

One is too harsh to one's dead self. One regards it as the executor and residuary legatee of
a complicated will dealing with a small estate regards the testator. Marion shook with rage
at the weak girl of thirty years ago who lay on the sofa and stared at the grained panels of
the closed door and let the walls of her will fall in. Then it was that her life had been given
its bias towards her misery. Then it was there was conceived the tragedy which would come to
a birth at which all present should die. "What tragedy? What tragedy?" she said derisively,
sitting up in bed. There spoke in her the voice of her deepest self. "The tragedy," it answered
composedly. "The tragedy. Did you not know almost as soon as Richard stirred in you that he
would have eyes like black fire? Were you not perfectly acquainted long before his birth with
all the modes in which his body and soul were to move, so that nothing he has done has ever
surprised you? Even so, you have always known that the end of you and yours will be tragedy."
"What could happen to my Richard?" she argued. "He is well, he is prosperous, he has this lovely
Ellen who will be a watchdog to his happiness. Tragedy cannot touch him unless the gods send
down fire from heaven, and there are no gods. There are no gods, but there are men, and fire
that comes from the will." She groaned, and lay back and wrapped the sheets round her closely
like cerements, as if by shamming dead she could cast off the hot thoughtfulness of life. But
indeed she gained some comfort from this dialogue with that uncomfortable self, for she knew
again how wise it was, and its predictions seemed irrational only because it had remembered
all that her consciousness had determined to forget for fear it threw so strong a light on
her fate that she would lose her courage to live.

Her reasoning self was a light, irreligious thing, and thought about what she should eat and
what she should drink and where she should sleep, but this other self had never awakened save
to speak of Harry or Richard. She trusted it, and she could recall quite definitely that on
that afternoon thirty years before it had sanctioned her decision to abandon conflict and do
what people wished to do. It knew, what her consciousness had forgotten, of how she herself
had felt when she was within her mother's womb, and it was able to warn her that her unborn
baby was seriously thinking of revising its decision to live. While she had staggered under
the stones, the child had quailed in the midst of her terror like a naked man above whom breaks
a thunderstorm; her nerves had played round him like a shaft of lightning, her loud heart-beat
had been the thunder. Now her fear-poisoned blood gave it sickly nourishment, at which the
foetal heart beat weakly, so that the embryo knew what the born know as faintness. The system
of delicate mechanical adjustments by which it poises in the womb was for the moment dislocated,
and at this violent warning of what life can be its will to live was overcast by doubt. If
she could rest here now, and go home and have a long sleep, and sit all the next morning on
the brow of the hill and watch the fishing-boats lie like black, fainting birds on the shining
flats, the child would feel her like a peaceful fane around it and it would decide to live.
But if Harry's mother came to see her next day it would forsake her.

She would come very early, for she was one of those people who suffer from a displaced day
as others suffer from a displaced heart, and rose at six. Long before Marion had completed
the long sleep that was necessary for the reassurance of her child she would be shaken, and
look up into her grandmother's face, which she did not like, for though the expressions that
passed over it were the same as they had always been, it was now overlaid with a patina of
malice. She would smile now, as she dared to years ago, when she used to tell her little granddaughter
that Lady Teresa had come to give her a present for reciting so nicely at the church school
concert, but all her aspect would mean hatred of this girl who had been given the romantic
love that she had been denied, and hope that its fruit might be destroyed. The room would be
tidied; her drowsy head would be tormented by the banging of drawers and the rustling of paper.
Out of consideration for Lady Teresa's feelings the photograph of Harry by her bed would be
turned face downwards. That she would not really mind, for she would have liked to take it
out of the frame and tear it to pieces; but she would have to pretend that she minded.

Then there would burst into her room the trailing and squawking personality of Lady Teresa.
She would bring with her a quantity of warm black stuffs, for she was one of the most enthusiastic
followers of Queen Victoria in the attempt to express the grief of widowhood by a profusion
of dark dry goods, and she would sit close to the bed, so that Marion would lose nothing of
the large face, with its beak nose and its bagging chin and its insulting expression of outraged
common sense, or of the strangulated contralto in which she would urge that there was no reason
why any sensible gel should not be proud to marry the butler at Torque House. By sheer noisiness
she would make Marion cry. The child would doubt again.... Since these things would have happened
she could not do other than she did. Her surrender was the price she had to pay for Richard's life.

How artfully, moreover, it was disguised from her that she was going to pay any real price!
She looked back through the past at Peacey's conduct of that matter as one might look through
the glass doors of a cabinet at some perfect and obscene work of art. He had laid his hand
so wonderfully across his face while he was speaking of his ugliness, so that the drooping
fingers seemed to tell of humility and the renunciation of all greeds. And that candid, reverent
gaze which he turned upon her to-day had been so well calculated to speak of purity to one
who had shivered under sidelong leers. He had indeed that supreme mastery over vice which comes
of a complete understanding and dilettante love of virtues. He knew how the innocent hunger
for love and pity, and, knowing well what these things were, he could speak as one who came
as their messenger. Loathingly and yet giving homage to his workmanship, she recalled that
later scence by which he had added a grace note to his melody of wickedness and made so sweet
a song of it that her will had failed utterly.

Mrs. Cliffe had come in with a cup of tea and some cake on a tray. "You'll feel better for
this," she said, and while Marion had ate and drunk she had stood by the window and looked
at her. It seemed to Marion that she had greatly changed of late. Before, she had belonged
very definitely to the shop-assistant class, which differentiated itself from the women-folk
of the village by keeping shapely and live-witted even after marriage. But now she stood humpishly
in her great apron like any cottager's wife, and her hand, which she set akimbo, looked red
and raw and stupid. The way she stared at Marion's figure, too, was indicative of a change
from her pristine gentility.

"Funny I never heard of you being like this," she said at last.

"It is. I thought everyone was talking about it."

"They may be. But there's times when one doesn't listen to what people are saying." For a time
she was silent. "Ah, well," she meditated bitterly, "it doesn't pay to do wrong, does it?"

"I haven't done wrong," said Marion.

"So you say now," Mrs. Cliffe told her, "but there'll come a day when you see you have." She
drew in her breath with a little gasp as Peacey put his head in at the door.

He looked sharply from one to the other, and then advanced to Marion's couch, rubbing his hands
genially. "Now then, Trixy," he said teasingly, "you don't want me to talk too long to your
beloved husband, do you? I might go telling him things about you, mightn't I? You run along
and look after him." Mrs. Cliffe retired quite taciturnly, nothing in her face responding to
this rallying, and he bent quickly over Marion. "I hope she hasn't been worrying you?" he asked.
Concern for her?--it sounded just like concern for her--made his voice tremble. "That's why
I hurried back. Women are so narrow-minded to their poor sisters who haven't been so fortunate.
I thought she might have been making you feel a bit uncomfortable."

"Oh no," said Marion.

The mask of his poor ugly face, which had been grotesque with pitying lines, became smooth.
He sighed with relief, and sat down by her side, very humbly.

