As they continued the attack, a pistol-shot could be heard now and then from the crowd. The
regiment did not return the fire, but as the mob pressed closer, an order from the front was
passed along the line.

"Fix bayonets."

The opposing parties were now only a few feet apart, and a rain of stones was falling so thick
and fast as to darken the air, when all at once I saw the colonel's sword flash out, the blunt
edge striking one of the rioters who was pressing on him.

"Clear the way, there!" he cried.

Then, wheeling and facing his command, his voice rang out, clear as a bugle;

"A--r--m--s, 'port! Double-time, march! Ch--ar--ge, bayonets! Hurrah! Give 'em a yell, boys,
and you can do it," added the colonel.

I cannot describe the shout which followed--a clear, ringing, organized whoop; fresh and vibrant;
of a perfectly distinct quality from the hoarse, undisciplined howl of the mob--sounding cool
and terrible, like the cry of an avenging angel.

The mob turned and fled, appalled, melting away like wax before the blue flame of the glittering
bayonets, and the regiment entered the depot.

Then I took time to breathe, and remembered Thomas.

"He ain't fur f'om yere," said the boy. "Right 'roun' d' corner."

And we passed out of the shelter of the doorway to a small, dirty alley, about twenty-five
yards distant, where I found the old man resting against a lamp-post, the blood streaming down
his face from a ghastly wound in the head, and his eyes closed. I made the boy get some water,
and after bathing his face for a few moments, I succeeded in rousing him.

"Is that you, Mist' Dunkin?" he asked, faintly.

"Yes. How do you feel, Thomas?"

"Dey's tuhibul times down-street," he gasped. "I like to got kilt."

A pause.

"Dey 'lowed dey wanted dem daih papehs--an'--dey didn't git 'um--an'--den--den dey hit me side
de hade--with a brickbat--an' I come 'long tell I git yeah--an' den, disha boy he come 'long--"

His voice was very faint and his hands very cold

"Don't talk any more now," I said, chafing them in mine, while I wondered perplexedly how I
should get him home. Presently he spoke again:

"But de papehs is all right, seh. I hilt on to 'um, sho'. Dey--dey couldn't git 'um nohow,
wid all de smahtniss," he said, with feeble triumph. "Dey's right yeah in my wescut pocket."
Then he added, with a sudden change of tone: "But I'd like to go home, Mist' Dunkin; Ailse'll
be oneasy 'bout me."

I had to leave him with the boy while I went for a doctor and a vehicle, neither of which was
easy to be had, but finally a milk-wagon was pressed into service, and although the mob had
gathered together again, and were besieging the depot, yet, after some delay, we succeeded
in conveying him to his home. I saw him safe in bed, his hurt dressed; then, after bestowing
a reward upon the colored boy, who had rendered me such efficient service, I left him in charge
of the doctor and his wife.

The latter was a small, plump yellow woman, with large, gentle black eyes, and the soft voice
so often found among Virginia "house" servants. After watching her as she assisted the surgeon
to dress the wound, I came to the conclusion all of her talents were by no means "bound up
in napkins," and I went home assured my faithful old messenger was left in very capable hands.

Next morning, directly after breakfast, I sallied forth to inquire concerning his condition.
After passing along the crowded thoroughfares, where everybody was occupied with the riot,
it was a relief to find myself turning into the obscure little street where he lived.

"Here, at least, everything seems peaceful enough," I said, aloud, as I approached the house.
I was just in the act of placing my foot on the one door-step, when the door was thrown violently
open, and a tall black woman bounced out, colliding with me as she passed, her superior momentum
thrusting me backward across the narrow pavement into the street. She was too excited to heed
my exclamation of astonishment. I don't think she saw me, even, for she turned immediately
and faced some one standing in the doorway, whom I now perceived to be Ailse, looking dreadfully
frightened.

"Good-mornin', Mis' Wheatley," said the Amazon, with withering sarcasm; "good-mornin', madam.
I think you'll know it the nex' time I darkens your doors, I think you will. Served me right,
though, we'en I demeaned myself to come; I might 'a' knowed what treatment I'd 'eceive from
you. Ef I hadn't ben boun' by solemn class-rules to pay some 'tention to Brother Wheatley's
immortal soul "--these words were uttered at the very top of her voice--"you wouldn't 'a' caught
me comin'; but I'll never come ag'in, never; so make yourself easy, Mis' Wheatley."

A shade of relief passed over Ailse's features as this assurance was repeated, and I coming
forward at this moment, the representative of the church militant betook herself off, while
I entered and spoke to Ailse, who, fairly dazed, sank into a chair, and stared me helplessly
in the face. There was a moment's silence, when she suddenly rose and offered me a seat, remarking,
as she did so, that "Sisteh Ma'y Ann Jinkins ca'in' on so" made her forget her manners.

"What is the matter?" said I.

"I dunno, seh, 'cep'n' she's mad 'cause docteh won't leave heh stay and talk to Mist' Wheatley;
he made heh go, an' I s'pose hit kindeh put heh out."

"What was she doing?"

"Talkin', seh; jiss talkin' and prayin'."

"And exciting the man into a fever," said the doctor, entering at that moment. "I came here
half an hour ago," he continued, turning to me, "and found this woman--who really is a good
nurse--turned out of her husband's room by that termagant who has just gone, and whom I found
in the act of preparing the man for death, she having decided his hours on earth were numbered;
in fact, I actually chanced in upon a species of commendatory prayer, which, if continued another
half hour--and I have every reason to think it would have been--would almost inevitably have
ended the man's life."

"I suppose I had better not see him this morning, then," said I.

"Oh, yes; you can see him; he's doing well now, and if he doesn't talk too much, I think the
sight of a cheerful face will do him good," and I left him giving some directions to Ailse,
while I proceeded up-stairs to the room where Thomas lay. He was awake, so I walked up to his
bedside, and asked him how he felt.

"I'm tollubul, thankee, seh; de medicine makes me kind o' sleepy, that's all."

I seated myself beside him, there was a moment or two of silence, then he asked, fretfully:

"Whai--whaih's Ailse? I like to see the 'oman 'roun'; s'haint got no speshul great gif', but
she's kind o' handy wen a body's sick."

"You don't seem to care so much for gifted women in a sick-room, Thomas?" I remarked, somewhat
mischievously, after I had summoned his wife from down-stairs.

"Well, naw, seh," a little shamefacedly. "Not so much. You see, seh, dey--dey's mos' too much
fu' a body, sich times. Dey will talk, you'se dey will, an' 'livah 'scouhcis, an' a sick man
he hain't got de strenth to--to supplicate in kine, an' hit kind o' mawtifies him, seh."

Once more there followed a silence, when I asked:

"Thomas, why didn't you give up those papers to the mob, when they attacked you last night?
Your retaining them might have cost you your life. I didn't mean you to endanger your life
for them."

He smiled slightly, as his glance met mine.

"I dunno, seh," he replied, with his old reflective air. "You tole me mos' pehticaleh to hole
on to 'um, an' 'twouldn't be doin' my duty faithful to let 'um go 's long ez I could hole on
to 'um."

"But suppose they had killed you?"

"Well, Mist' Dunkin, ef dey had, I hope I'd been ready to go. I ben tryin' to lead a godly
an' Chris'chun life, ez Scripcheh sez, fu' fawty yeahs, now, an' I hope I'd a foun' dyin' grace
at de las'. You see, seh, thing hoped me mos' was de thoughts of a tex' Bro' Moss preached
on las' Sund'y; 'peached like hit hep' on jinglin' in my hade all time dey was jawin' an' fightin'
with me."

"What text was it?" I asked.

But he was almost asleep, and his wife signalled me not to wake him. So I was stealing away
toward the door, when he opened his eyes and murmured, drowsily:

"De tex', oh yes, seh. I fo'got--'twas a Scripcheh tex'--'Be thou faithful unto--'"

He then turned over, settling himself comfortably in his pillows, and in a moment dropped asleep.

In due course of time, he made his appearance in the office again, being anxious to "resume
his duties," he said. But that blow on the head has proved to be a serious affair, affecting
the old man's memory permanently, and giving a violent shock to his system, from which it will
never entirely recover. He is no longer the clear-headed messenger he was, when he was wont
to assert--no idle boast either--that he could "fetch an' cai' eq'il to any man." Now and then,
in these latter days, he confuses things a little, always suffering the keenest mortification
when he discovers his mistakes. As I said in the beginning, he is still our office-boy and
messenger, although a smart young mulatto is hired to come betimes, make things tidy, and leave
before the old man gets down, so his feelings mayn't be hurt. He sometimes remarks on our being
the "cleanis' gentlemun in de wueld," but we contrive that no whisper of the real state of
the case ever reaches his ear, and he is allowed to sweep and dust a little to satisfy his mind.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: A virtuous woman.]

THE HEARTBREAK CAMEO.

By LIZZIE W. CHAMPNEY.

"It is a cameo to break one's heart!" said Mrs. Dalliba, as she toyed with the superb jewel.
"The cutting is unmistakably Florentine, and yet you have placed it among your Indian curiosities.
I do not understand it at all."

Mrs. Dalliba was a connoisseur in gems; she had travelled from one extremity of Europe to the
other; had studied the crown jewels of nearly every civilized nation, haunted museums, and
was such a frequent visitor at the jewellers' of the Palais Royal, that many of them had come
to regard her as an individual who might harbor burglarious intentions. She was a very harmless
specialist, however, who, though she loved these stars of the underworld better than any human
being, could never have been tempted to make one of them unfairly her own, and she seldom purchased,
for she never coveted one unless it was something quite extraordinary, beyond the reach of
even her considerable fortune. Meanwhile few of the larger jewelry houses had in their employ
lapidaries more skilled than Mrs. Dalliba. She pursued her studies for the mere love of the
science, devoting a year in Italy to mosaics, cameos, and intaglios. And yet the Crèvecoeur
cameo had puzzled wiser heads than Mrs. Dalliba's, adept though she was. It was cut from a
solid heart-shaped gem, a layer of pure white, shading down through exquisite gradations into
deep green, and representing Aphrodite rising from the sea; the white foam rose gracefully,
with arms extended, scattering the drops of spray from her hands and her wind-blown hair; the
foamy waves were beautifully cut with their intense hollows and snowy crests; it was evidently
the work of a cultivated as well as a natural artist; it was not surprising that Mrs. Dalliba
should insist that it could not have been executed out of Italy.

But Prof. Stonehenge was right too; it was a stone of the chalcedonic family, resembling sardonyx,
except in color; others, similar to it both in a natural state and wrought into arrow-heads,
had been found along the shores of Lake Superior. This seemed to have been brought away from
its associates by some wandering tribe, for it had been discovered in Central Illinois. The
nearest point at which other relics belonging to the same period had been found was the site
of Fort Crèvecoeur, near Starved Rock, Illinois. After all, the stone only differed from the
arrow-heads of Lake Superior in its beautiful carving and unprecedented size--and, ah, yes!
there was another difference, the mystery of its discovery. No other skeleton among all the
buried braves unearthed by scientific research at Crèvecoeur had been found with a gem for
a heart--a gem that glittered not on the breast, but within a chest hooped with human bone.
Mrs. Dalliba had just remarked that she had never felt so strong a desire to possess and wear
any jewel as now; but when Prof. Stonehenge told how the uncanny thing rattled within the white
ribs of the skeleton in which it was found, she allowed the gem to slip from her hand, while
something of its own pale green flickered in the disgusted expression which quivered about
the corners of her mobile mouth. The cameo was a mystery which had baffled geologist, antiquarian,
and sculptor alike, for Father Francis Xavier had gone down to his grave with his secret and
his cameo hidden in his heart. He had kept both well for two centuries, and when the heart
crumbled in dust it took its secret with it, leaving only the cameo to bewilder conjecture.

Its story was, after all, a simple one. On the southern shore of Michillimackinac, in the romantic
days of the first exploration of the great lakes by the Courreurs de Bois and pioneer priests,
had settled good Père Ignace, a devoted Jesuit missionary. The old man was revered and loved
by the Indians among whom he dwelt. His labors blossomed in a little village, called from his
patron saint the mission of St. Ignace, that displayed its cluster of white huts and wigwams
like the petals of a water-lily on the margin of the lake. Just back of the village was a round
knoll which served as a landmark on the lake, for the shore near St. Ignace was remarkably
level. On the summit of this mound the good father had reared a great white cross, and at its
foot the superstitious Indians often laid votive offerings of strongly incongruous character.
Here he had lived and taught for many years, succeeding in instructing his little flock in
the French tongue, and in at least an outward semblance of the Catholic religion. Even the
rude trappers, who came to trade at regular intervals, revered him, and lived like good Christians
while at the mission, so as not to counteract his teaching by their lawless example. Here Père
Ignace was growing old, and even this grasshopper of a spiritual charge was becoming a burden.
His superior, at Montreal, understood this, and sent him an assistant.

Very unlike Father Ignatius was Père François Xavier, a man with all the fire and enthusiasm
of youth in his blood--just the one for daring, hazardous enterprises; just the one to undergo
all the privation and toil of planting a mission; to undertake plans requiring superhuman efforts,
and to carry them through successfully by main force of will. A better assistant for Father
Ignatius could not have been found. It was force, will, and intellect in the service of love
and meekness; only there was a doubt if the servant might not usurp the place of the master,
and the sway of love be not materially advanced by its new ally. Indeed, if the truth had been
known, even the Bishop of Montreal had felt that Father Francis Xavier was too ambitious a
character to reside safely in too close proximity to himself; and engrossing employment at
a distance for him, rather than the expressed solicitude for Father Ignatius, prompted this
appointment. The results of the following year approved the arrangement. The mission received
a new accession of life; its interests were pushed forward energetically.

Father Francis Xavier devoted himself to an acquisition of the various Indian dialects, and
to excursions among the neighboring tribes. Converts were made in astonishing numbers, and
they brought liberal gifts to the little church from their simple possessions. Father Ignatius
had never thought to barter with the trappers and traders, but his colleague did; large church
warehouses were erected, and the mission soon had revenues of importance. Away in the interior
Father Xavier had discovered there was a silver mine; but this discovery, for the present,
he made no attempt at exploiting. He had secured it to the church by title deed and treaty
with the chief who claimed it; had visited it and assured himself that it would some day be
very valuable, and he contented himself with this for the present, and even managed to forget
its acquisition in his yearly report sent to Montreal. Father Francis Xavier was something
of a geologist; his father was a Florentine jeweller, and the son had studied as his apprentice,
not having at first been destined for the church. Even after taking holy orders, Father Francis
Xavier had labored over precious stones designed for ecclesiastical decoration. His specialty
had been that of a gem engraver, and his long white fingers were remarkably skilful and delicate.
This northern region, with all its wealth of precious stones, was a great jewel casket for
him, and he became at once an enthusiastic collector.

Before the coming of his assistant, Father Ignatius had managed his own simple housekeeping
in all its most humble details. Now they had the services of an Indian maid of all work, who
had been brought up under the eyes of Father Ignatius, and whom the old man regarded rather
as a daughter than as a servant. Her moccasined feet fell as silently as those of spirits as
she glided about their lodge. She never sang at her work, and rarely spoke, but she smiled
often with a smile so childlike as to be almost silly in expression. Father Ignatius loved
the silent smile, and a word from him was always sure to bring it; but it angered Father Francis
Xavier more than many a more repulsive thing would have done. It seemed so utterly imbecile
and babyish to him, he had got so far away from innocence and smiles and childhood himself,
that the sight of them irritated him. The young Indian girl had a long and almost unpronounceable
name. Père Ignace had baptized her Marie, and the new name had gradually taken the place of
the old.

One day, as she was silently but dexterously putting to order the large upper room, which served
Père Francis Xavier as study and dormitory, she paused before his collection of agates and
minerals, and stroking the stones, said in her soft French and Indian patois, "Pretty, pretty."
Father Xavier was seated at the great open window, looking over the top of his book away across
the breezy lake. He heard the words, and knew that she was looking at him from the corner of
her eye, but his only reply was a deeper scowl and a lowering of his glance to the printed
page. The silly smile which he felt sure was upon her face faded out, but the girl spoke again,
and this time more resolutely, determined to attract his attention. "Pretty stones. Marie's
father many more, much prettier--much."

Father Xavier laid down his book. He was all attention. "Where did your father get them?" he asked.

"In the mountains climb, in the mines dig, in the lake dive, he seek them all the time summer."

"What does he do with them?"

"Cuts them like mon père," and Marie imitated in pantomime the use of the hammer and chisel.
"Cut them all time winter, very many."

"What does he do that for?" asked the priest, surprised.

"All the same you," replied the girl--"make arrow-heads."

"Oh! he makes arrow-heads, does he? Mine are not arrow-heads, but I should like to see what
your father does. Does he live far from here?"

"Marie take you to-night in canoe."

"Very well, after supper."

She had often taken him out upon the lake before, for she managed their birch-bark canoe with
more skill than himself, and it was convenient to have some one to paddle while he fished or
read or dreamed. She rowed him swiftly up the lake for several miles, then, fastening the canoe,
led the way through a trail in the forest. The sun was setting, and "the whispering pines and
the hemlocks" of the forest primeval formed a tapestry of gloom around the paternal wigwam
as they reached it. Black Beaver, her father, reclined lazily in the door, watching the coals
of the little fire in front of his tent. He was always lazy. It was difficult to believe that
he ever climbed or dug or dived for agates as Marie had said, so complete a picture he seemed
of inaction. The girl spoke a few words to him in their native dialect, and he grumblingly
rose, shuffled into the interior of the wigwam, and brought out two baskets. One was a shallow
tray filled with the finished heads in great variety of material and color. There were white
carnelian, delicately striped with prophetic red, blood-stone deep colored and hard as ruby,
agates of every shade and marking, flinty jasper, emerald-banded malachite, delicate rose color,
and purple one made from shells, and various crystals with whose names Father Francis Xavier
was unfamiliar. There was one shading from dark green through to red, only a drop of the latter
color on the very tip of the arrow where blood would first kiss blood. Father Xavier looked
at it in wondering admiration, and at last asked Black Beaver what he called it.

"It is a devil-stone," replied the Indian. "More here," and he opened the deeper basket in
which were stored the unground and uncut stones, and placed a superb gem in Father Xavier's
hand. He had ground it sufficiently to show that it was in two layers, white and green; in
this there was no touch of red, but in every other respect it was the handsomer stone.

"Will you sell it to me?" asked the priest. "How much?"

The Indian smiled with an expression strangely like that of his daughter, and put it back with
alacrity in his basket, saying, "Me no sell big devil-stone. No money buy."

"What do you mean to do with it?" asked Father Xavier.

"Make arrow-head--very hungry--no blood;" and he indicated the absence of the red tint. "Very
hungry--kill very much--never have enough!"

"Then you mean to keep it and use it yourself?"

"No," said the other. "Me no hunt game--hunt stones."

"What will you do with it?" asked the puzzled priest.

"Give it away," said Black Beaver--"give away to greatest--"

"Chief?" asked Father Xavier.

Black Beaver shook his head.

"Friend then?"

"No," grunted the arrow-head maker--"give away to big enemy!"

"What did he mean by that?" Father Xavier asked of Marie on their way back to the mission.
And the girl explained the superstition that Indians of their own tribe never killed an enemy
with ordinary weapons, for fear that his soul would wait for theirs in the Happy Hunting Grounds;
but if he was shot with a devil-stone, the soul could not fly upward, but would sink through
all eternity, until it reached the deepest spot of all the great lakes under the stony gaze
of the Doom Woman.

When he inquired further as to the whereabouts of the Doom Woman's residence he ascertained
that she was only a sharp cliff among "the pictured rocks of sandstone" of the upper lake--a
cliff that viewed from either side maintained its resemblance to a female profile looking sternly
down at the water beneath it, which was here believed to be unfathomable. The Doom Woman still
exists. Strange to say, under its sharp-cut features a steamer has since been wrecked and sunk,
and its expression of gloomy fate is now awfully appropriate. Marie had visited "the great
Sea Water" with her father. Nature's titanic and fanciful frescoing and cameo-cutting had strongly
wrought upon her impressionable mind, and the old legends and superstitions of paganism had
been by no means effaced by the very slight veneer of Christianity which she had received at
the mission.

From this evening Father Xavier's manner toward her changed. Her smile no longer seemed to
irritate him, and a close observer might have noticed that she smiled less than formerly. He
talked with her more, paid closer attention to her studies, made her little presents from time
to time, and spoke to her always with studied gentleness that was quite foreign to his nature.
And Marie watched him at work over his stones, spent her spare time in rambling in search of
those which she had learned he liked, and laid upon his table without remark each new discovery
of quartz, or crystal, or pebble. She had been in the habit of making little boxes which she
decorated with a rude mosaic of small shells, and Father Xavier noticed that these gradually
acquired more taste and were arranged with some eye to the harmonies of color, while the forms
were copied with Chinese accuracy from patterns on the bindings of his books or the borders
of the religious pictures. Marie was developing under an art education which, if carried far
enough, might effect great things. She even managed his graving tools with a good deal of accuracy,
copying designs which he set her, until he wondered what his father would have thought of so
apt an apprentice.

Suddenly, one morning in midsummer, Marie announced that she should leave them. Her father
was going on a long expedition for stones to the head of Lake Superior, and she did not know
when she might return. As she imparted this information she watched Father Xavier from the
corner of her eye, and something of the old childish smile reappeared as he showed that he
was really annoyed.

The summer passed profitably for the Black Beaver, and he began to think of returning to St.
Ignace with his small store of valuable stones before the fall gales should set in. He was
just a few days too late. When within sight of Michillimackinac a storm arose driving them
out upon the open lake, and playing with their canoe as though it were a cockle-shell. When
the storm abated a cloudy night had set in; no land was visible in any direction; they had
completely lost their direction, and knew not toward which point to seek the shore. Paddling
at hazard might take them further out into the centre of the lake, and indeed they were too
worn with battling with the storm to do any more than keep the tossed skiff from capsizing.
Morning dawned wet and gray, after a miserable night; they were drenched to the skin, and almost
spent with weariness and hunger, and now that a wan and ghostly daylight had come they were
no better for it, for an impenetrable fog shut them in on every side. Marie and her mother
began to pray. The Black Beaver sat dogged and inert, with upturned face, regarding the sky.

The day wore by wearily; some of the time they paddled straight onward, with sinking hearts,
knowing not toward what they were going, and at others rested with the inaction of despair.
When the position of the bright spot which meant the sun told that it lacked but an hour of
sunset, and the clouds seemed to be thickening rather than dispersing, the Black Beaver gave
a long and hideous howl. His wife and daughter shuddered when they heard it, as would any one,
for a more unearthly and discordant cry was never uttered by man or beast; but they had double
reason to shudder; it was the death cry of their nation.

"We can never live through another night," said he, and he covered his face with his arms.

