Nevertheless, the Princess was not present at the coronation of King William and Queen Adelaide,
and her absence, as the heir-presumptive to the throne, caused much remark and speculation,
and gave rise to not a few newspaper paragraphs. Various causes were assigned for the singular
omission. The Times openly accused the Duchess of Kent of proving the obstacle. Other newspapers
followed suit, asserting that the grounds for the Duchess's refusal were to be found in the
circumstance that in the coronation procession, marshalled by Lord A. Fitzclarence, the place
appointed for the Princess Victoria, instead of being next to the King and Queen, according
to her right, was after the remaining members of the royal family. Conflicting authorities
declared that the Prime Minister, Earl Grey, for some occult reason, opposed the Princess's
receiving an invitation to be present at a ceremony which had so much interest for her; or
that the Duchess of Northumberland, the governess of the Princess, took the same extraordinary
course from political motives. Finally, The Globe gave, on authority, an explanation that had
been offered all along in the midst of more sensational rumours. The Princess's health was
rather delicate, and the Duchess of Kent had, on that account, got the King's sanction to her
daughter's not being exposed to unusual excitement and fatigue. The statement on authority
was unanswerable, but while it stilled one cause of apprehension it awakened another. After
the untimely death of Princess Charlotte, the nation was particularly sensitive with regard
to the health of the heir to the crown. Whispers began to spread abroad, happily without much
foundation, of pale cheeks, and a constitution unfit for the burden which was to be laid upon it.

CHAPTER III. YOUTH.

In the month of August, 1831, the Princess went with her mother to profit by the soft, sweet
breezes of the Isle of Wight. The Duchess and her daughter occupied Norris Castle for three
months, and the ladies of the family were often on the shore watching the white sails and chatting
with the sailors. Carisbrooke and King Charles the Martyr were brought more vividly home to
his descendant, with the pathetic little tale of the girl-Princess Elizabeth. We do not know
whether the Queen then learnt to feel a special love for the fair little island with which
she has long been familiar, but of this we are certain, that she could then have had little
idea that her chief home would be within its bounds. Even in 1831 transport and communication
by land and water continued a tedious and troublesome business. However, the visit to the Isle
of Wight was repeated in 1833. Perhaps to dissipate the gossip and calm the little irritation
which had been created by the Princess's absence from the coronation, she made her appearance
twice in public, on the completion of her thirteenth year, in 1832. That was a year in which
there was much call for oil to be cast on the troubled waters: never since 1819, the date of
the Queen's birth had there been greater restlessness and turmoil throughout the country. For
some time public feeling had been kept at the boiling-point by the question of the Reform Bill--groaned
over by some as the first step to democracy and destruction; eagerly hailed by others as a
new dawn of freedom, peace, and prosperity. The delay in passing the Bill had rendered the
King unpopular, and brought unmerited blame on Queen Adelaide, for having gone beyond her prerogative
in lending herself to overthrow the King's Whig principles. The ferment had converted the old
enthusiastic homage to the Iron Duke as a soldier into fierce detestation of him as a statesman.
The carrying of the measure on which the people had set their hearts did not immediately allay
the tempest--a disappointing result, which was inevitable when the universal panacea failed
to work at once like a charm in relieving all the woes in the kingdom. Men were not only rude,
and spoke their minds, the ringleaders broke out again into riots, the most formidable and
alarming of which were those in Bristol, that left a deep impression on more than one chance
spectator who witnessed them. But the girl Princess--praised for her proficiency in Horace
and Virgil, and her progress in mathematics--could only hear far off the mutterings of the
storm that was passing; and King William and Queen Adelaide sought to put aside what was perplexing
and harassing them; and tried to forget that when they had shown themselves to their people
lately they had been met--here with indifference--and there with hootings. The times were waxing
more and more evil, as it seemed, to uneasy, vexed wearers of crowns, unlike those in which
old King George and Queen Charlotte had been received with fervent acclamation wherever they
went, whatever wars were being waged or taxes imposed. The manners of the Commons were not
improving with the extension of their rights. But the King and Queen would do their duty, which
was far from disagreeable to them, in paying proper respect to their niece and successor. Accordingly
their Majesties gave a ball on the Princess's thirteenth birthday, 24th May, 1832, at which
the heroine of the day figured; and four days later, on the 28th of May, she was present for
the second time at a Drawing-room.

All the same, it is an open secret that William, living, for the most part, in that noblest
palace of Windsor, considered the Princess led too retired a life, so far as not appearing
often enough at his Court was concerned, and that he complained of her absence and resented
it as a slight to himself. It is an equally well-established fact that, in spite of the King's
kindness of heart and Queen Adelaide's goodness, King William's Court was not in all respects
a desirable place for a Princess to grow up in, in addition to the objection that any Court
in itself formed an unsuitable schoolroom for a young girl.

It is doubtful, since even the most magnanimous men have jealous instincts, whether the King's
displeasure on one point would be appeased by what was otherwise a very natural and judicious
step taken by the Duchess of Kent this year. She made an autumn tour with her daughter through
several counties of England and Wales, in the course of which the royal mother and daughter
paid a succession of visits to seats of different noblemen, taking Oxford on the way. If there
was a place in England which deserved the notice of its future Queen, it was one of the two
great universities--the cradles of learning, and, in the case of "the most loyal city of Oxford,"
the bulwark of the throne. The party proceeded early in October through the beautiful scenery
of North Wales--the Princess's first experience of mountains--to Eaton Hall, the home of the
Grosvenor family. From Eaton the travellers drove to the ancient city of Chester, with its
quaint arcades and double streets, its God's Providence House and its cathedral. At Chester
the Princess named the new bridge which was opened on the occasion. By the wise moderation
and self-repression of those around her, the name bestowed was not the "Victoria," but simply
the "Grosvenor Bridge."

From Eaton the Princess was taken to Chatsworth, the magnificent seat of the Cavendishes. She
stayed long enough to see and hear something of romantic Derbyshire. She visited Hardwick,
associated with Building Bess, whose granddaughter, the unfortunate "Lady Arbell," had been
a remote cousin of this happy young Princess, and she went, like everybody else, to Matlock.
At Belper the party, in diligent search after all legitimate knowledge, examined the great
cotton-mills of the Messrs. Strutt, and the senior partner had the honour of showing to her
Royal Highness, by means of a model, how cotton was spun.

From Chatsworth the Duchess and her daughter repaired to Alton Abbey, where the "Talbot tykes"
still kept watch and ward; thence to Shugborough, the seat of the Earl of Lichfield, which
enabled the visitors to see another fine cathedral and to breathe the air which is full of
"the great Dr. Johnson."

At each of the towns the strangers were met by addresses--of course made to the Duchess and
replied to by her. How original these formal compliments must have sounded to Princess Victoria!
On the 27th of October their Royal Highnesses were at Pitchford Hall, the residence of the
Earl of Liverpool, from which they visited Shrewsbury--another Chester--with a word of its
own for the old fateful battle in which "Percy was slain and Douglas taken prisoner," and the
Welsh power broken in Owen Glendower. After getting a glimpse of the most picturesque portion
of Shropshire, halting at more noble seats, and passing through a succession of Worcester towns,
the royal party reached Woodstock on the 7th of November, and the same evening rested at Wytham
House, belonging to the Earl of Abingdon. There was hardly time to realise that the memories
of Alice Lee, the old knight Sir Henry, and the faithful dog Bevis, rivalled successfully the
grisly story of Queen Eleanor and Fair Rosamond. Nay, the magician was still dogging the travellers'
steps; for had he not made the little town of Abingdon his own by choosing it for the meeting-place
of Mike Lambourne and Tressillian, and rebuilding in its neighbourhood the ruins of Cumnor
Hall, on which the dews fell softly? Alas! the wizard would weave no more spells. A month before
that princely "progress" Sir Walter Scott, after Herculean labours to pay his debts like an
honest man had wrecked even his robust frame and healthful genius, lay dead at Abbotsford.

On the 8th of November the future Queen entered Oxford with something like State, in proper
form escorted by a detachment of Yeomanry. There is no need to tell that she was received by
the Vice-Chancellor of the University, and the dons and doctors of the various colleges, in
full array. And she was told of former royal visitors: of Charles in his tribulation; of her
grandfather and grandmother, King George and Queen Charlotte, when little Miss Barney was there
to describe the festivities. The Princess went the usual round: to superb Christ Church, at
which her sons were to graduate; to the Bodleian and Radclyffe libraries; to All Souls, New
College, &c. She proceeded to view other buildings, which, unless in a local guide-book, are
not usually included among the lions of Oxford. But this young lady of the land was bound to
encourage town as well as gown; therefore she visited duly the Town Hall and Council Chamber.
From Oxford the tourists returned to Kensington.

There are no greater contrasts than those which are to be found in royal lives. When the Princess
Victoria was about to set out on her pleasant journey in peace and prosperity, the news came
of the arrest of the Duchesse de Berri, at Nantes. It was the sequel to her gallant but unsuccessful
attempt to raise La Vendee in the name of her young son, Henri de Bordeaux, and the end to
the months in which she had lain in hiding. She was discovered in the chimney of a house in
the Rue Haute-du-Chateau, where she was concealed with three other conspirators against the
Government of her cousin, Louis Philippe. The search had lasted for several hours, during which
these unfortunate persons were penned in a small space and exposed to almost intolerable heat.
A mantelpiece had been contrived so as to turn on a swivel and form an opening into a suffocating
recess. When the Duchesse and her companions were found their hands were scorched and part
of their clothes burnt. She was taken to the fortress of Nantes, and thence transferred to
the Castle of Blaze, where she suffered a term of imprisonment. She had acted entirely on her
own responsibility, her wild enterprise having being disapproved alike by her father-in-law,
Charles X., and her brother and sister-in-law, the Duc and Duchesse d'Angouleme.

In 1833, we are told, the Duchess of Kent and the fourteen years old Princess stopped on their
way to Weymouth--the old favourite watering-place of King George and Queen Charlotte--and visited
the young Queen of Portugal, at Portsmouth. Donna Maria da Gloria had been sent from Brazil
to England by her father, Don Pedro, partly for her safety, partly under the impression, which
proved false, that the English Government would take an active part in her cause against the
usurpation of her uncle, Don Miguel. The Government did nothing. The royal family paid the
stranger some courtly and kindly attentions. One of the least exceptional passages in the late
Charles Greville's Memoirs is the description of the ball given by the King, at which the two
young queens--to be--were present. The chronicle describes the girls, who were of an age--having
been born in the same year: the sensible face of the fair-haired English Princess, and the
extreme dignity--especially after she had sustained an accidental fall--of the Portuguese royal
maiden, inured to the hot sun of the tropics. Don Miguel was routed in the course of the following
year (1834), and his niece was established in her kingdom. Within the same twelve months she
lost a father and gained and lost a husband; for among the first news that reached her English
acquaintances was her marriage, before she was sixteen, and her widowhood within three months.
She had married, in January, the Duc de Leuchtenberg, a brother of her stepmother and a son
of Eugene Beauharnais. He died, after a short illness, in the following March. She married
again in the next year, her re-marriage having been earnestly desired by her subjects. The
second husband was Prince Ferdinand of Coburg, belonging to the Roman Catholic branch of the
Coburgs, and cousin both to the Queen and the Prince Consort. He was a worthy and, ultimately,
a popular prince. Donna Maria was grand-niece to Queen Amelie of France, and showed much attachment
to the house of Orleans. There is said to have been a project formed by Louis Philippe, which
was frustrated by the English Government, that she should marry one of his sons, the Duc de
Nemours.

In addition to the English tours which the Princess Victoria made with her mother, the Duchess
of Kent was careful that as soon as her daughter had grown old enough to profit by the association,
she should meet the most distinguished men of the day--whether statesmen, travellers, men of
science, letters, or art. Kensington had one well-known intellectual centre in Holland House,
presided over by the famous Lady Holland, and was soon to have another in Gore House, occupied
by Lady Blessington and Count D'Orsay; but even if the fourteen years old Princess had been
of sufficient age and had gone into society, such salons were not for her. The Duchess must
"entertain" for her daughter. In 1833 Lord Campbell mentions dining at Kensington Palace. The
company found the Princess in the drawing-room on their arrival, and again on their return
from the dining-room. He records her bright, pleasant intelligence, perfect manners, and happy
liveliness.

In July, 1834, when the Princess was fifteen, she was confirmed in the Chapel Royal, St. James's,
by the Archbishop of Canterbury, in the presence of the King and Queen and the Duchess of Kent.
She was advancing with rapid steps to the point at which the girl leaves the child for ever
behind her, and stretches forward to her crown of young womanhood. She had in her own name
confirmed the baptismal vow which consecrated her as a responsible being to the service of
the King of kings. Still she was a young creature, suffered to grow up according to a gracious
natural growth, not forced into premature expansion, permitted to preserve to the last the
sweet girlish trust and confidence, the mingled coyness and fearlessness, pensive dreams and
merry laughter, which constitute the ineffable freshness and tender grace of youth.

If the earlier story of the purchase, or non-purchase, of the box at Tunbridge Wells reads
"like an incident out of 'Sandford and Merton,'" there is another anecdote fitting into this
time which has still more of the good-fairy ring in it, while it sounds like a general endorsement
of youthful wisdom. Yet it may have had its origin in some eager, youthful fancy of astonishing
another girl, and giving her "the very thing she wanted" as a reward for her exemplary behaviour.
The Princess was visiting a jeweller's shop incognito (a little in the fashion of Haroun-al-Raschid)
when she saw another young lady hang long over some gold chains, lay down reluctantly the one
which she evidently preferred, and at last content herself with buying a cheaper chain. The
interested on-looker waited till the purchaser was gone, made some inquiries, directed that
both chains should be tied up and sent together, along with the Princess Victoria's card, on
which a few words were pencilled to the effect that the Princess had been pleased to see prudence
prevail, while she desired the young lady to accept her original choice, in the hope that she
would always persevere in her laudable self-denial.

In the autumn of 1835 the Duchess of Kent and the Princess went as far north as York, visiting
the Archbishop at Bishopsthorpe, studying the minster--second only to Westminster among English
abbeys--and gracing with the presence of royalty the great York Musical Festival. On the travellers'
homeward route they were the guests of the Earl of Harewood, at Harewood House, Earl Fitzwilliam
at Wentworth, and the Duke of Rutland at Belvoir. At Burghley House the Duchess and the Princess
visited the Marquis of Exeter. The late Charles Greville met them there, and gives a few particulars
of their visit.

Romance was not much in Mr. Greville's way, but Burghley, apart from the statesman Cecil and
his weighty nod, had been the scene of such a romance as might well have captivated the imagination
of a young princess, though its heroine was but a village maiden--she who married the landscape-painter,
and was brought by him to Burghley, bidden look around at its splendour, and told

  "All of this is thine and mine."

Tennyson has sung it--how she grew a noble lady, and yet died of the honour to which she was
not born, and how the Lord of Burghley, deeply mourning, bid her attendants

  "Bring the dress and put it on her
  Which she wore when we were wed."

In one of those autumns which the Duchess of Kent and her daughter spent at Ramsgate--not so
rural as it had been a dozen years before, but still a quiet enough retreat--they received
a visit from the King and Queen of the Belgians. Prince Leopold was securely established on
the throne which he filled so well and so long, keeping it when many other European sovereigns
were unseated. He was accompanied by his second wife, Princess Louise of France, daughter of
Louis Philippe. She was a good woman, like all the daughters of Queen Amelie, while Princess
Marie, in addition to goodness, had the perilous gift of genius. The following is Baron Stockmar's
opinion of the Queen of the Belgians. "From the moment that the (Queen Louise) entered that
circle in which I for so many years have had a place, I have revered her as a pattern of her
sex. We say and believe that men can be noble and good; of her we know with certainty that
she was so. We saw in her daily a truthfulness, a faithful fulfilment of duty, which makes
us believe in the possible though but seldom evident nobleness of the human heart. In characters
such as the Queen's, I see a guarantee of the perfection of the Being who has created human
nature." We ought to add that Stockmar had not only the highest opinion of the character of
Queen Louise, but also of her insight and judgment, and he often expressed his opinion that
if anything were to happen to King Leopold the Regency might be entrusted to the Queen with
perfect confidence.

How much the Queen valued Queen Louise, how she became Queen Victoria's dearest friend, is
fully shown at a later date by the extracts from the Queen's journal, and letters in the "Life
of the Prince Consort"

About this time the Duchess of Kent and Princess Victoria paid a visit to the Duke of Wellington
at Walmer Castle--the old tower with fruit-trees growing in the dry moat, and a slip from the
weeping-willow which hung over the grave in St. Helena flourishing in its garden, where the
Warden of the Cinque Ports could look across the roadstead of the Downs and count the ships'
masts like trees in a forest, and watch the waves breaking twenty feet high on the Goodwin
Sands. "The cut-throat town of Deal" which poor Lucy Hutchinson so abhorred, pranked its quaint
red houses for so illustrious and dainty a visitor. The Duke had stood by her font, and if
he had "no small talk," he was a courteous gentleman and gentle warrior when he fought his
battles over again for the benefit of the young Princess.

A winter was spent by the Duchess and the Princess at St. Leonard's, not far from Battle Abbey,
where the last Saxon king of England bit the dust, and William of Normandy fought and won the
great battle which rendered his invasion a conquest.

1836 was an eventful year in the Queen's life. We read that the Duchess of Kent and her daughter
remained at Kensington till the month of September. There was a good reason for staying at
home in the early summer. The family entertained friends: not merely valued, kinsfolk, but
visitors who might change the whole current of a life's history and deeply influence a destiny
on which the hopes of many hearts were fixed, that concerned the well-being of millions of
the human race. Princess Victoria had not grown up solitary in her high estate. It has been
already pointed out that she was one in a group of cousins with whom she had cordial relations.
But the time was drawing near when nature and policy alike pointed to the advisability of forming
a closer tie, which would provide the Princess with companionship and support stretching beyond
those of her mother, and, if it were well and wisely chosen, afford the people further assurance
that the first household in the kingdom should be such as they could revere. The royal maiden
who had been educated so wisely and grown up so simply and healthfully, was approaching her
seventeenth birthday. Already there were suitors in store for her hand; as many as six had
been seriously thought of--among them, Prince Alexander of the Netherlands, whose suit was
greatly favoured by King William; Duke Ernest of Wurtemberg; Prince Adalbert of Prussia; and
Prince George of Cambridge. Prince George of Cumberland was hors de combat, apart from the
Duke of Cumberland's pretensions and the alienation caused by them. Prince George, when a baby,
had lost the sight of one eye, a misfortune which his father shared. A few years later in the
son's boyhood, as he was at play in the gardens of Windsor Castle, he began to amuse himself
with flinging into the air and catching a long silk purse with heavy gold tassels, when the
purse fell on the seeing eye, inflicting such an injury as to threaten him with total blindness.
The last catastrophe was brought about by the blunder of a famous German oculist after Prince
George had become Crown Prince of Hanover.

How much the Princess knew or guessed of those matrimonial prospects, how far they fluttered
her innocent heart, we cannot tell; but as of all the candidates mentioned there was only one
with whom she had any acquaintance to speak of, it may be supposed that the generality of the
proposed wooers passed like vague shadows before her imagination.

In the meantime the devoted friends of her whole life had naturally not left this question--the
most important of all--entirely unapproached. Her English cousins stood to her somewhat in
the room of contemporary brothers and sisters; for her own brother and sister, however united
to her in affection, were removed from her by age, by other ties, and by residence in a foreign
country, to which in 1833 there was still no highway well trodden by the feet of kings and
queens and their heirs-presumptive, as well as by meaner people, such as we find to-day. But
there were other cousins of whom much had been said and heard, though they had remained unseen
and personally unknown. For that very reason they were more capable of being idealised and
surrounded by a halo of romance.

At the little ducal Court of Coburg there was the perfect young prince of all knightly legends
and lays, whom fate seemed to have mated with his English cousin from their births within a
few months of each other. When he was a charming baby of three years the common nurse of the
pair would talk to him of his little far-away royal bride. The common grandmother of the two,
a wise and witty old lady, dwelt fondly on the future union of her youngest charge with the
"Mayflower" across the seas.

In all human probability these grandmotherly predictions would have come to nothing had it
not been for a more potent arbiter of the fortunes of his family. King Leopold had once filled
the very post which was now vacant, for which there were so many eager aspirants. None could
know as he knew the manifold and difficult requirements for the office; none could care as
he cared that it should be worthily filled. His interest in England had never wavered, though
he had renounced his English annuity of fifty thousand a year on his accession to the throne
of Belgium. He was deeply attached to the niece who stood nearly in the same position which
Princess Charlotte had occupied twenty years before. Away in Coburg there was a princely lad
whom he loved as a son, and who held the precise relation to the ducal house which he himself
had once filled. What was there to hinder King Leopold from following out the comparison? Who
could blame him for seeking to rebuild, in the interest of all, the fair edifice of love and
happiness and loyal service which had been shattered before the dawn of those lives--that were
like the lives of his children--had arisen? Besides, look where he might, and study character
and chances with whatever forethought, he could not find such another promising bridegroom
for the future Queen of England. Young, handsome, clever, good, endowed with all winning attributes;
with wise, well-balanced judgment in advance of his years; with earnest, steadfast purpose,
gentle, sympathetic temper, and merry humour.

King Leopold's instinct was not at fault, as the result proved; but it was not without the
most careful consideration and many anxious consultations, especially with his trusty old friend,
Baron Stockmar, that the King allowed himself to take the initiatory step in the matter. If
the young couple were to love and wed it was certainly necessary that they should meet, that
"the favourable impression" might be made, as the two honourable conspirators put it delicately.
For this there was no more time to be lost, when so many suitors had already entered the lists,
and the maiden only wanted a year of the time fixed for her majority. But with conscientious
heedfulness for the feelings of the youthful pair, and for their power of forming separately
an unbiassed opinion, it was settled that when an opportunity of becoming acquainted should
be given them, the underlying motive must be kept secret from the Princess as well as the Prince,
that they might be "perfectly at their ease with each other." This secrecy could not, however,
extinguish the previous knowledge which the Prince at least possessed, that a marriage between
the cousins had been mooted by some of those most interested in their welfare.

In spite of the obstacles which King William raised, an invitation was sent by the Duchess
of Kent to her brother, the reigning Duke of Saxe-Coburg, to pay her a visit, accompanied by
his two sons, in the spring of 1836. Accordingly, in the month which is the sweetest of the
year, in spite of inconstant skies and chill east winds, when Kensington Gardens were bowery
and fair with the tender green foliage--the chestnut and hawthorn blossoms--the lilac and laburnum
plumes of early summer, the goodly company arrived, and made the old brick palace gay with
the fresh and fitting gaiety of youth.

We may never know how the royal cousins met--whether the frank, kind, unconscious Princess
came down under the wing of the Duchess as far as their entrance into the Clock Court; whether
there was a little dimness of agitation and laughing confusion, in spite of the partial secrecy,
in two pairs of blue eyes which then encountered each other for the first time; whether the
courtly company ascended in well-arranged file, or in a little friendly disorder. It was fortunate
that there were more doors and halls and staircases than one, for it goes without saying that
nobody could have had time and attention to spare for the wonderfully elaborate staircase,
the representation in chiaroscuro of horses and warlike weapons, the frieze with heads of unicorns
and masks of lions. It must have been on another day that young heads looked up in jest or
earnest at Hercules, Diana, Apollo, and Minerva, and stopped to pick out the heterogeneous
figures in the colonnade--"ladies, yeomen of the guard, pages, a quaker, two Turks, a Highlander,
and Peter the Wild Boy," which testified to the liberal imagination of Kent, who executed not
only the architecture, but the painting, in the reign of George I.

The guests remained at Kensington for a month, the only drawback to their pleasure being a
little attack of bilious fever, from which Prince Albert suffered for a few days. There is
a published letter to his stepmother in which the Prince tells his doings in the most unaffected,
kindly fashion. There were the King's levee, "long and fatiguing, but very interesting;" the
dinner at Court, and the "beautiful concert" which followed, at which the guests had to stand
till two o'clock; the King's birthday, with the Drawing-room at St. James's Palace, where three
thousand eight hundred people passed before the King and Queen, and another great dinner and
concert in the evening. There was also the "brilliant ball" at Kensington Palace, at which
the gentlemen were in uniform and the ladies in fancy dresses. Duke William of Brunswick, the
Prince of Orange and his sons, and the Duke of Wellington, were among the guests, and the Princes
of Coburg helped to keep up the ball till four o'clock. They spent a day with the Duke of Northumberland
at Sion House, they went to Claremont, and they were so constantly engaged that they had to
make the most of their time in order to see at least some of the sights of London. To one of
the sights the Queen referred afterwards. The Duke of Coburg and the two Princes accompanied
the Duchess of Kent and the Princess to the wonderful gathering of the children of the different
charity schools in St. Paul's Cathedral, where Prince Albert listened intently to the sermon.
We hardly need to be told that he was full of interest in everything, paid the greatest attention
to all he saw, and was constantly occupied. Among his pleasant occupations were the two favourite
pursuits--which the cousins shared--music and drawing. He accompanied the Princess on the piano,
and he drew with and for her. It was a happy, busy time, though some of the late dinners, at
which, the Prince drank only water, were doubtless dull enough of the young people, and Prince
Albert, accustomed to the early hours and simple habits of Germany, felt the change trying.
He confessed that it was sometimes with the greatest difficulty he could keep awake. The Princess's
birthday came round during her kinsman's visit. The Prince alluded to the event and to his
stay at Kensington in writing to the Duchess of Kent three years later, when he was the proud
and happy bridegroom of his cousin. He made no note of the date as having had an effect on
their relations to each other, neither did he dwell on any good wish or gift [Footnote: Lady
Bloomfield mentions among the Queen's rings "a small enamel with a tiny diamond in the centre,
the Prince's gift when he first came to England, a lad of seventeen."] on his part; but in
compliance with a motherly request from his aunt, the Duchess, that he would send her something
he had worn, he returned to her a ring that she had given him on that May morning. The ring
had never left his finger since then. The very shape proclaimed that it had been squeezed in
the grasp of many a manly hand. The ring had her name upon it, but the name was "Victoria"
too, and he begged her to wear it in remembrance of his bride and himself.

The favourable impression had been made in spite of the perversity of fortune and the vagaries
of human hearts, which, amidst other casualties, might have led the Princess to accord her
preference to the elder brother, Prince Ernest, who was also "a fine young fellow," though
not so well suited to become prince-consort to the Queen of England. But for once destiny was
propitious, and neither that nor any other mischance befell the bright prospects of the principal
actors in the scene. When the King of the Belgians could no longer refrain from expressing
his hopes, he had the most satisfactory answer from his royal niece.

"I have only now to beg you, my dearest uncle," she wrote, "to take care of the health of one
now so dear to me, and to take him under your special protection. I hope and trust that all
will now go on prosperously and well on this subject, now of so much importance to me."

At the same time, though an affectionate correspondence was started and maintained for a year,
no further communication passed which could tend to enlighten the Prince as to the feelings
he had excited. He went away to complete his education, to study diligently, along with his
brother, at Brussels and Bonn; to feel in full the gladness of opening life and opening powers
of no ordinary description; to rejoice, as few young men have the same warrant to rejoice,
in the days of his unstained, noble youth.

On the King's birthday, the 21st August, the Duchess of Kent and Princess Victoria were at
Windsor Castle on a visit. In spite of some soreness over the old grievance, the King proposed
the Princess Victoria's health very kindly at the dinner.

In the September of that year the Duchess and the Princess went again to Ramsgate, and stayed
there till December. It was their last visit to the quiet little resort within a short pilgrimage
of Canterbury--the great English shrine, not so much of Thomas a Becket, slain before the altar,
as of Edward the Black Prince, with his sword and gauntlets hung up for ever, and the inscription
round the effigy which does not speak of Cressy and Poictiers, but of the vanity of human pride
and ambition. It was the last seaside holiday which the mother and daughter spent together
untrammelled by State obligations and momentous duties, with none to come between the two who
had been all in all with each other. In their absence a storm of wind passed over London, and
wrought great damage in Kensington Gardens. About a hundred and thirty of the larger trees
were destroyed. In the forenoon of the 29th of November "a tremendous crash was heard in one
of the plantations near the Black Pond, between Kensington Palace and the Mount Gate, and on
several persons running to the spot twenty-five limes were found tumbled to the earth by a
single blast, their roots reaching high into the air, with a great quantity of earth and turf
adhering, while deep chasms of several yards in diameter showed the force with which they had
been torn up.... On the Palace Green, Kensington, near the forcing-garden, two large elms and
a very fine sycamore were also laid prostrate."

In the following summer (1837) the Princess came of age, as princesses do, at eighteen, and
it was meet that the day should be celebrated with, all honour and gladness. But the rejoicings
were damped by the manifestly failing health of the aged King, then seventy-one years of age.
He had been attacked by hay fever--to which he had been liable every spring at an earlier period
of his life, but the complaint was more formidable in the case of an old and infirm man, while
he still struggled manfully to transact business and discharge the duties of his position.
At the Levee and Drawing-room of the 21st May he sat while receiving the company. By the 24th
he was confined to his rooms, and the Queen did not leave him.

At six o'clock in the morning the Union Jack was hoisted on the summit of the old church, Kensington,
and on the flagstaff at Palace Green. In the last instance the national ensign was surmounted
by a white silk flag on which was inscribed in sky-blue letters "Victoria." The little town
adorned itself to the best of its ability. "From the houses of the principal inhabitants of
the High Street were also displayed the Royal Standard, Union Jack, and other flags and colours,
some of them of extraordinary dimensions." Soon after six o'clock the gates of Kensington Gardens
were thrown open for the admission of the public to be present at the serenade which was to
be performed at seven o'clock under the Palace windows, with the double purpose of awaking
the Princess in the most agreeable manner, and of reminding her that at the same place and
hour, eighteen years ago, she had opened her eyes on the May world. The sleep of youth is light
as well as sound, and it may well be that the Princess, knowing all that was in store for her
on the happy day that could not be too long, the many goodly tokens of her friends' love and
gladness--not the least precious those from Germany awaiting her acceptance--the innumerable
congratulations to be offered to her, was wide awake before the first violin or voice led the
choir.

The bells rang out merry peals, carriages dashed by full of fine company. Kensington Square
must have thought it was the old days of William and Mary, and Anne, or of George II and Queen
Caroline at the latest, come back again. The last French dwellers in Edwardes Square must have
talked volubly of what their predecessors had told them of Paris before the flood, Paris before
the Orleanists, and the Bonapartists, and the Republic--Paris when the high-walled, green-gardened
hotels of the Faubourg St. Germain were full of their ancient occupants; when Marie Antoinette
was the daughter of the Caesars at the Tuileries, and the bergere Queen at le Petit Trianon.
Before the sun went down many a bumper was drunk in honour of Kensington's own Princess, who
should that day leave her girlhood all too soon behind her.

But London as well as Kensington rejoiced, and the festivities were wound up with a ball given
at St. James's Palace by order of the poor King and Queen, over whose heads the cloud of sorrow
and parting was hanging heavily. We are told that the ball opened with a quadrille, the Princess
being "led off" by Lord Fitzalan, eldest son of the Earl of Surrey and grandson of the Duke
of Norfolk, Premier Duke and Earl, Hereditary Earl Marshal and Chief Butler of England. Her
Royal Highness danced afterwards with Prince Nicholas Esterhazy, son of the Austrian Ambassador.
Prince Nicholas made a brilliant figure in contemporary annals--not because of his own merits,
not because he married one of the fairest of England's noble daughters, whose gracious English
hospitalities were long remembered in Vienna, but because of the lustre of the diamonds in
his Court suit. He was said to sparkle from head to heel. There was a legend that he could
not wear this splendid costume without a hundred pounds' worth of diamonds dropping from him,
whether he would or not, in minor gems, just as jewels fell at every word from the mouth of
the enchanted Princess. We have heard of men and women behind whose steps flowers sprang into
birth, but Prince Nicholas left a more glittering, if a colder, harder track.

CHAPTER IV. THE ACCESSION.

On the day after that on which Princess Victoria celebrated her majority. Baron Stockmar arrived
at Kensington. He came from the King of the Belgians to assist King Leopold's niece in what
was likely to be the great crisis of her life. During Baron Stockmar's former stay in England
he had been in the character first of Physician in Ordinary to Prince Leopold, and afterwards
of Private Secretary and Comptroller of his household. In those offices he had spent the greater
part of his time in this country from 1816 to 1834. He had accompanied his master on his ascending
the Belgian throne, but had returned to England in a few years in order to serve him better
there. Baron Stockmar was thus an old and early friend of the Princess's. In addition he had
a large acquaintance with the English political world, and was therefore well qualified to
advise her with the force of a disinterested adviser in her difficult position. In the view
of her becoming Queen, although her three predecessors, including George III after he became
blind, had appointed and retained private secretaries, the office was not popular in the eyes
of the Government and country, and it was not considered advisable that the future Queen should
possess such a servant, notwithstanding the weight of business--enormous in the matter of signatures
alone--which would fall on the Sovereign. Without any recognised position, Stockmar was destined
to share with the Prime Minister one portion of the duties which ought to have devolved on
a private secretary. He was also to act as confidential adviser.

Baron Stockmar, [Footnote: "An active, decided, slender, rather little man, with a compact
head, brown hair streaked with grey, a bold, short nose, firm yet full mouth, and what gave
a peculiar air of animation to his face, with two youthful, flashing brown eyes, full of roguish
intelligence and fiery provocation. With this exterior, the style of his demeanour and conversation
corresponded; bold, bright, pungent, eager, full of thought, so that amid all the bubbling
copiousness and easy vivacity of his talk, a certain purpose was never lost sight of in his
remarks and illustrations."--Friedrich Carl Meyer.] who was at this time a man of fifty, was
no ordinary character. He was sagacious, warm-hearted, honest, straightforward to bluntness,
painstaking, just, benevolent to a remarkable degree; the friend of princes, without forfeiting
his independence, he won and kept their perfect confidence to the end. He loved them heartily
in return, without seeking anything from them; on the contrary, he showed himself reluctant
to accept tokens of their favour. While lavishing his services on others, and readily lending
his help to those who needed it, he would seem to have wanted comfort himself. An affectionate
family man, he consented to constantly recurring separation from his wife and children in order
to discharge the peculiar functions which were entrusted to him. For he played in the background--contented,
nay, resolute to remain there--by the lawful exercise of influence alone, no small part in
the destinies of several of the reigning houses in Europe, and through them, of their kingdoms.
Like Carlyle, he suffered during his whole life from dyspepsia; like Carlyle, too, he was a
victim to hypochondria, the result of his physical state. To these two last causes may be attributed
some whimsicalities and eccentricities which were readily forgiven in the excellent Baron.

Baron Stockmar did not come too soon; in less than a month, on the 20th of June, 1837, after
an illness which he had borne, patiently and reverently, King William died peacefully, his
hand resting where it had lain for hours, on the shoulder of his faithful Queen.

The death took place at Windsor, at a little after two o'clock in the morning. All through
the rest of the summer night these solemn and stately gentlemen drove, nodding with fatigue,
hailing the early dawn, speaking at intervals to pronounce sentence on the past reign and utter
prognostications, of the reign which was to come. Shortly before five, when the birds were
already in full chorus in Kensington Gardens, the party stood at the main door, demanding admission.
This was another and ruder summons than the musical serenade which had been planned to wile
the gentle sleeper sweetly from her slumbers and to hail her natal day not a month before.
That had been a graceful, sentimental recognition of a glad event; this was an unvarnished,
well-nigh stern arousal to the world of grave business and anxious care, following the mournful
announcement of a death--not a birth. From this day the Queen's heavy responsibilities and
stringent obligations were to begin. That untimely, peremptory challenge sounded the first
knell to the light heart and careless freedom of youth.

Though it had been well known that the King lay on his death-bed, and Kensington without, as
well as Kensington within, must have been in a high state of expectation, it does not appear
that there were any watchers on the alert to rush together at the roll of the three royal carriages.
Instead of the eager, respectful crowd, hurrying into the early-opened gates of the park to
secure good places for all that was to be seen and heard on the day of the Princess's coming
of age, Palace Green seems to have been a solitude on this momentous June morning, and the
individual the most interested in the event, after the new-made Queen, instead of being there
to pay his homage first, as he had offered his congratulations on the birthday a year before,
was far away, quietly studying at the little university town on the Rhine.

In those days, when news did not travel very fast, and was not always delivered with strict
accuracy, a rumour got abroad that the Queen was walking in the Palace Garden when the messengers
came to tell her she had succeeded to the Crown. A great deal was made of the poetic simplicity
of the surroundings of the interesting central figure--the girl in her tender bloom among the
lilies and roses, which she resembled. We can remember a brilliant novel of the time which
had a famous chapter beginning with an impassioned apostrophe to the maiden who met her high
destiny "in a palace, in a garden." Another account asserted that the Queen saw the Archbishop
of Canterbury alone in her ante-room, and that her first request was for his prayers. In reply,
her Majesty wrote an affectionate letter of condolence to her aunt, begging her to consult
nothing but her own health and convenience, and to stay at Windsor just as long as she pleased.
The writer was observed to address this as usual "To the Queen of England." A bystander interposed,
"Your Majesty, you are Queen of England." "Yes," answered the unelated, considerate girl-Queen,
"but the widowed Queen is not to be reminded of the fact first by me."

Their message delivered, the messengers returned to London, and the next arrival was that of
the Prime Minister, Lord Melbourne, who appeared at nine o'clock, had an interview with the
Queen, which lasted for half an hour, when he also took his leave to issue summonses for a
Privy Council, to he held in the course of the next two hours at Kensington Palace, and not
at St. James's, as had been anticipated.

The little town of Kensington must now have been up and about, for, perhaps, never had there
been such a day in its annals, as far transcending the birthday celebration as a great reality
surpasses the brightest promise; and Kensington might hug the day with all its might, for it
was to be nearly the last of its kingly, queenly experience. The temporary Court was to pass
away presently, never to come back. No more kings and queens were likely to be born or to die
at the quiet spot, soon to become a great noisy suburb of great London. No later Sovereign
would quit the red-brick palace of Mary and Anne, and the First George, to reign at Buckingham
or Windsor; no other Council be held in the low-browed, white-pillared room to dispute the
interests of the unique Council which was to be held there this day.

The first Council of any Sovereign must awaken many speculations, while the bearing of the
principal figure in the assumption of new powers and duties is sure to be watched with critical
curiosity; but in the case of Queen Victoria the natural interest reached its utmost bounds.
The public imagination was impressed in the most lively manner by the strong contrast between
the tender youth and utter inexperience of the maiden Queen and the weighty and serious functions
she was about to assume--an anomaly best indicated by the characteristic speech of Carlyle,
that a girl at an age when, in ordinary circumstances, she would hardly be trusted to choose
a bonnet for herself, was called upon to undertake responsibilities from which an archangel
might have shrunk. More than this, the retirement in which the young Queen had grown up left
her nature a hidden secret to those well-trained, grey-bearded men in authority, who now came
to bid her rule over them. Thus, in addition to every other doubt to be solved, there was the
pressing question as to how a girl would behave under such a tremendous test; for, although
there had been queens-regnant, popular and unpopular before, Mary and Elizabeth had been full-grown
women, and Anne had attained still more mature years, before the crown and sceptre were committed
to the safe keeping of each in turn. Above all, how would this royal girl, on whose conduct
so much depended, demean herself on this crucial occasion? Surely if she were overcome by timidity
and apprehension, if she were goaded into some foolish demonstration of pride or levity, allowance
must be made, and a good deal forgiven, because of the cruel strain to which she was subjected.

Shortly after eleven o'clock, the royal Dukes and a great number of Privy Councillors, amongst
whom were all the Cabinet Ministers and the great officers of State and the Household, arrived
at Kensington Palace, and were ushered into the State apartments. A later arrival consisted
of the Lord Mayor, attended by the City Marshals in full uniform, on horseback, with crape
on their left arms; the Chamberlain, Sword-bearer, Comptroller, Town Clerk, and Deputy Town
Clerk, &c., accompanied by six aldermen. These City magnates appeared at the Palace to pay
their homage to her Majesty. The Lord Mayor attended the Council.

We have various accounts--one from an eye-witness wont to be cool and critical enough--of what
passed. The Queen received them in the adjoining room alone."

It was the first time she had to act for herself. Until then she had been well supported by
her mother, and by the precedence which the Duchess of Kent took as her Majesty's guardian.
But the guardianship was over and the reign begun. There could be no more sheltering from responsibility,
or becoming deference to, and reliance on, the wisdom of another and a much older person. In
one sense the stay was of necessity removed. The Duchess of Kent, from this day "treated her
daughter with respectful observance as well as affection." The time was past for advice, instruction,
or suggestion, unless in private, and even then it would be charily and warily given by the
sensible, modest mother of a Queen. Well for her Majesty that there was no more than truth
in what one of the historians of the reign has said, in just and temperate language, of her
character: "She was well brought up. Both as regards her intellect and her character her training
was excellent. She was taught to be self-reliant, brave, and systematical."

As soon as the deputation had returned, the proclamation was read; "Whereas it has pleased
Almighty God to call to His mercy our late Sovereign Lord, King William the Fourth, of blessed
and glorious memory, by whose decease the imperial Crown of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland is solely and rightfully come to the high and mighty Princess Alexandrina Victoria,
saving the rights of any issue of his late majesty, King William the Fourth, which may be born
of his late Majesty's consort; we, therefore, the lords spiritual and temporal of this realm,
being here assisted with these of his late Majesty's Privy Council, with numbers of others,
principal gentlemen of quality, with the Lord Mayor, aldermen and citizens of London, do now
hereby, with one voice and consent of tongue and heart, publish and proclaim that the high
and mighty Princess Alexandrina Victoria is now, by the death of our late Sovereign, of happy
memory, become our only lawful and rightful liege Lady, Victoria, by the grace of God Queen
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, saving, as aforesaid:
To whom, saving as aforesaid, we do acknowledge all faith and constant obedience, with all
hearty and humble affection, beseeching God, by whom kings and queens do reign, to bless the
royal Princess Victoria with long and happy years to reign over us.

"Given at the Court of Kensington this 20th day of June, 1837. (Signed by all the Lords of
the Privy Council present). God Save the Queen." This awful responsibility is imposed upon
me so suddenly, and at so early a period of my life, that I should feel myself utterly oppressed
by the burden were I not sustained by the hope that Divine Providence, which has called me
to this work, will give me strength for the performance of it, and that I shall find in the
purity of my intentions, and in my zeal for the public welfare, that support and those resources
which usually belong to a more mature age and to longer experience.

"'I place my firm reliance upon the wisdom of Parliament and upon the loyalty and affection
of my people. I esteem it also a peculiar advantage that I succeed to a Sovereign whose constant
regard for the rights and liberties of his subjects, and whose desire to promote the amelioration
of the laws and institutions of the country, have rendered his name the object of general attachment
and veneration.

"'Educated in England, under the tender and enlightened care of a most affectionate mother,
I have learned from my infancy to respect and love the Constitution of my native country.

"'It will be my unceasing study to maintain the reformed religion as by law established, securing
at the same time to all the full enjoyment of religious liberty; and I shall steadily protect
the rights and promote, to the utmost of my power, the happiness and welfare of all classes
of my subjects.'"

Her Majesty's speech was after the model of English royal speeches; but one can feel at this
day it was spoken in all ingenuousness and sincerity, and that the utterance--remarkable already
for clearness and distinctness--for the first time, of the set words, ending in the solemn
promise to do a Sovereign's duty, must have thrilled the hearts both of speaker and hearers.

A critical listener was not wanting, according to the testimony of the witness who, on his
own account, certainly did not object to chronicle detraction of every kind.

"She was quite plainly dressed, and in mourning.

The days of violence were ended, and whatever private, hopes he might once have entertained,
Ernest, Duke of Cumberland, was the first to hail his niece as the high and mighty Princess
Alexandrina Victoria, to whom the imperial Crown of Great Britain and Ireland had solely and
rightfully come--the first to proclaim her, with one voice and consent of tongue and heart,
on the part of himself and his peers, his only lawful and rightful liege Lady Victoria, to
whom he acknowledged all faith and rightful obedience, with all hearty and humble affection.
It may be, the fact that he had succeeded to the throne of Hanover rendered the step less difficult.
His name was also the first in the signatures of princes, Privy Councillors, peers, and gentlemen
affixed in the next room to the proclamation. His brother, the Duke of Sussex, followed. They
were both elderly men, with the younger older in infirmities than in years. The King of Hanover
was sixty-six, the Duke of Sussex sixty-four years of age.

Mr. Greville's comment on the scene was singularly enthusiastic from such a man. He quoted
Sir Robert Peel's and the Duke of Wellington's opinions in accordance with his own.

We can understand the fatherly reference of the Duke, and the sort of personal pride he took
in his young Queen. He had been present at her birth in this very Palace of Kensington; he
had known her at every stage of her life hitherto. She was doing credit not only to herself
and her mother, but to every friend she had, by her perfect fulfilment of what was required
of her. Lord Campbell was equally eulogistic. "As soon as I heard that King William had expired
I hurried to Kensington, to be present at the first Council of the new Sovereign. This, I think,
was the most interesting scene I have ever witnessed.... I am quite in raptures with the deportment
of the young Queen. Nothing could be more exquisitely proper. She looked modest, sorrowful,
dejected, diffident, but at the same time she was quite cool and collected, and composed and
firm. Her childish appearance was gone. She was an intelligent and graceful young woman, capable
of acting and thinking for herself. Considering that she was the only female in the room, and
that she had no one about her with whom she was familiar, no human being was ever placed in
a more trying situation."

What was most conspicuous in the Queen had been already remarked upon and admired in the young
girl at Queen Adelaide's Drawing-room. Here were the same entire simplicity, with its innate
dignity only further developed; the power of being herself and no other, which left her thoughtful
of what she ought to do--not of how she should look and strike others--and rendered her free
to consider her neighbours; the docility to fit guidance, and yet the ability to judge for
herself; the quick sense all the time of her high calling.

That first Council at Kensington has become an episode in history--a very significant one.
It has been painted, engraved, written about many a time, without losing its fascination. Sir
David Wilkie made a famous picture of it, which hangs in a corridor at Windsor In this picture
the artist used certain artistic liberties, such as representing the Queen in a white muslin
robe instead of a black gown, and the Privy Councillors in the various costumes of their different
callings--uniforms with stars and ribands, lawyers' gowns and full-bottomed wigs, bishops'
lawn, instead of the ordinary morning dress of the gentlemen of their generation. It must have
tickled Wilkie as he worked to come to an old acquaintance of his boyhood and youth in John,
Lord Campbell, and to recognise how bewilderingly far removed from the bleak little parish
of Cults and the quiet little town of Cupar was the coincidence which summoned him, the distinguished
painter, in the execution of a royal commission, to draw the familiar features of his early
playmate in those of the Attorney-General, who appeared as a privileged member of the illustrious
throng.

We still turn back wistfully to that bright dawn of a beneficent reign. We see the slight girlish
figure in her simple mourning filling her place sedately at the head of the Council table.
At the foot, facing her Majesty, sits the Duke of Sussex, almost venerable in his stiffness
and lameness, wearing the black velvet skull-cap by which he was distinguished in those days.
We look at the well-known faces, and think of the famous names among the crowd of mature men,
each of whom was hanging on the words and looks of his mistress. There is Copley the painter's
son, sagacious Lyndhurst, who lived to be the Nestor of the bench and the peerage; there is
his great opponent, Robertson the historian's grand-nephew, Brougham, a tyrant of freedom,
an illustrious Jack-of-all-trades, the most impassioned, most public-spirited, most egotistical
of men. He was a contradiction to himself as well as to his neighbours. His strongly-marked
face, with its shaggy brows, high cheek-bones, aggressive nose, mouth drooping at the corners,
had not lost its mobility. He was restless and fault-finding in this presence as in any other.
The Duke of Wellington's Roman nose lent something of the eagle to his aspect. It was a more
patrician attribute than Sir Robert Peel's long upper lip, with its shy, nervous compression,
which men mistook for impassive coldness, just as the wits blundered in calling his strong,
serviceable capacity, noble uprightness, and patient labour "sublime mediocrity." William Lamb,
Viscount Melbourne, was the type of an aristocrat, with brains and heart. He was still a very
handsome man at fifty-eight, as he was also "perhaps the most graceful and agreeable gentleman
of the generation." His colleague--destined to marry Lord Melbourne's sister, the most charming
woman who ever presided in turn over two Ministerial salons, Lord Palmerston, in spite of his
early achievements in waltzing at Almack's, was less personally and mentally gifted. He had
rather an indiarubber-like elasticity and jauntiness than stateliness, or dignity, or grace.
His irregular-featured face was comical, but he bore the bell in exhaustless spirits, which
won him, late in life, the reputation of perennial juvenility, and the enviable if not altogether
respectful sobriquet of "the evergreen Palm." Lord John Russell, with his large head and little
body, of which Punch made stock, with his friendship for Moore and his literary turn, as well
as his ambition to serve his country like a true Russell, was at this date wooing and wedding
the fair young widow, Lady Ribblesdale, his devotion to whom had drawn from the wags a profane
pun. They called the gifted little lord "the widow's mite." When the marriage ceremony was
being performed between him and Lady Ribblesdale the wedding-ring fell from the bride's finger--an
evil omen soon fulfilled for the marriage tie was speedily broken by her early death. "Plain
John Campbell" was a very different man. The son of a minister of the Church of Scotland, in
a presbytery which included among its members the father of Sir David Wilkie, his Scotch tongue,
Scotch shrewdness, healthy appetite for work, and invulnerable satisfaction with himself and
his surroundings, caused themselves to be felt in another sphere than that to which he was born.

"The Cabinet Ministers tendered to the Queen the seals of their respective offices, which her
Majesty was most graciously pleased to return, and they severally kissed hands on their reappointment."
The last business done was to arrange for the public proclamation of the Queen, and to take
her pleasure with regard to the time, which she fixed for the day following, Wednesday, the
21st of June, at ten o'clock. We are further informed that the Queen, in the course of the
morning, received a great many noble and distinguished personages. So finished a busy and exciting
day; the herald of many other days crowded with engagements and excitement.

The Palace of St. James's, where the proclamation was to take place, had been for a long time
the theatre of all the principal events in the lives of the kings and queens of England. Even
the young Queen already viewed it in this light, for though she had been baptized at Kensington,
she had been confirmed at St. James's. She had attended her first Drawing-rooms, and celebrated
her coming-of-age ball there. St. James's is a brick building, like Kensington Palace, but
is far older, and full of more stirring and tragic associations. It has an air of antiquity
about it, if it has few architectural claims on the world's interest; but at least one front,
that which includes the turreted gateway into St. James's Street, is not without picturesque
beauty. The situation of the palace, considering that it is in the middle of a great city,
is agreeable. It has its park, with a stretch of pleasant water on one side, and commands the
leafy avenue of the Mall and the sweep of Constitution Hill. As a royal residence it dates
as far back as Henry VIII., whose daughter Mary ended her sad life here. Both of the sons of
James I. received it as a dwelling, and were connected with it in troubled days. Prince Henry
fell into his pining sickness and died here. Charles, after bringing Henrietta Maria under
its roof, and owning its shelter till three of his children were born, was carried to St. James's
as a prisoner. He was taken from it in a sedan-chair to undergo his trial at his new palace
of Whitehall. He was conveyed back under sentence of death. Here Bishop Juxon preached the
last sermon to which the King listened, and administered to him the Sacrament; and here Charles
took leave of his children--the little Duke of Gloucester and the girl-Princess Elizabeth.
From St. James's the King went to the scaffold on the bitter January morning, followed by the
snowy night in which "the white King" was borne to his dishonoured burial. Other and less tragic
scenes were enacted within its bounds. A familiar figure in connection with Kensington Palace--Caroline
of Anspach, wife of George II.--died like herself here. Her King had fallen into a stupor of
sorrow across the bed where she lay in her last agony, and she forbade his being disturbed.
She told those who were praying to pray aloud, that she might hear them; then raising herself
up and uttering the single German word of acquiescence, "So," her brave spirit passed away.

When the Queen arrived, accompanied by her mother and her ladies, and attended by an escort,
on the June morning of her proclamation, she was received by the other members of the royal
family, the Household, and the Cabinet Ministers. Already every avenue to the Palace and every
balcony and window within sight were crowded to excess. In the quadrangle opposite the window
where her Majesty was to appear a mass of loyal ladies and gentlemen was tightly wedged. The
parapets above were filled with people, conspicuous among them the big figure of Daniel O'Connell,
the agitator, waving his hat and cheering with Irish effusion.

"At ten o'clock," says the Annual Register, "the guns in the park fired a salute, and immediately
afterwards the Queen made her appearance at the window of the tapestried ante-room adjoining
the ante-chamber, and was received with deafening cheers. She stood between Lords Melbourne
and Lansdowne, in their State dresses and their ribands, who were also cheered, as was likewise
her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent. At this and the two other windows we recognised the
King of Hanover, the Dukes of Sussex, Wellington, and Argyle; Lords Hill, Combermere, Denbigh,
Duncannon, Albemarle, and Winchester; Sir E. Codrington, Sir William Houston, and a number
of other lords and gentlemen, with several ladies.

"Her Majesty looked extremely fatigued and pale, but returned the repeated cheers with which
she was greeted with remarkable ease and dignity. She was dressed in deep mourning, with a
white tippet, white cuffs, and a border of white lace under a small black bonnet, which was
placed far back on her head, exhibiting her light hair in front simply parted over the forehead.
Her Majesty seemed to view the proceedings with considerable interest. Her Royal Highness the
Duchess of Kent was similarly dressed to the Queen."

"In the courtyard were Garter-King-at-Arms with heralds and pursuivants in their robes of office,
and eight officers of arms on horseback bearing massive silver maces; sergeants-at-arms with
their maces and collars; the sergeant-trumpeter with his mace and collar; the trumpets, drum-major
and drums, and knights'-marshal and men." God save the Queen.' At the termination of this proclamation
the band struck up the National Anthem, and a signal was given for the Park and Tower guns
to fire in order to announce the fact of the proclamation being made. During the reading of
the proclamation her Majesty stood at the Presence Chamber window, and immediately upon its
conclusion the air was rent with the loudest acclamations by those within the area, which were
responded to by the thousands without."

The scene drew from Elizabeth Barrett Browning the following popular verses:--

  O, maiden, heir of kings,
    A king has left his place;
  The majesty of death has swept
    All other from his face;
  And thou upon thy mother's breast
    No longer lean adown,
  But take the glory for the rest,
  And rule the land that loves thee best.
    The maiden wept,
    She wept to wear a crown.

       *       *       *       *       *

  God bless thee, weeping Queen,
    With blessings more divine,
  And fill with better love than earth
    That tender heart of thine;
  That when the thrones of earth shall be
    As low as graves brought down,
  A pierced hand may give to thee
  The crown which angels shout to see.
    Thou wilt not weep
    To wear that heavenly crown.

A maiden Queen in her first youth, wearing the crown and wielding the sceptre, had become un
fait accompli and the news spread over the length and breadth of the land. We have seen how
it touched the oldest statesmen, to whom State ceremonials had become hackneyed--who were perhaps
a little sceptical of virtue in high places. It may be imagined, then, how the knowledge, with
each striking and picturesque detail, thrilled and engrossed all the sensitive, romantic young
hearts in the Queen's dominions. It seemed as if womanhood and girlhood were exalted in one
woman and girl's person--as if a new era must be inaugurated with such a reign, and every man
worthy of the name would rally round this Una on the throne.

The prosaic side of the question was that the country was torn by the factions of Whig and
Tory, which were then in the full bloom of party spirit and narrow rancorous animosity. The
close of the life of William IV. had presented the singular and disastrous contradiction of
a King in something like open opposition to his Ministers. William had begun by being a liberal
in politics, but alarmed by the progress of reform, he had hung back resisted, and ended by
being dragged along an unwilling tolerator of a Whig regime. The Duke of Kent had been liberal
in his opinions when liberality was not the fashion. The Duchess was understood to be on the
same side; her brother and counsellor, the King of the Belgians, was decidedly so. Accordingly,
the Whigs hailed the accession of Queen Victoria as their triumph, likely to secure and prolong
their tenure of office. They claimed her as their Queen, with a boasting exultation calculated
to wound and exasperate every Tory in the kingdom. Lord Campbell, who, though a zealous Whig,
was comparatively cool and cautious, wrote in his journal, after the Queen's first Council,
"We basked in the full glare of royal sunshine;" and this tone was generally adopted by his
party. They met with some amount of success in their loud assertion, and the consequence was
a strain of indignant bitterness in the Tory rejoinder. A clever partisan inscribed on the
window-pane of an inn at Huddersfield:

  "The Queen is with us," Whigs insulting say,
  "For when she found us in, she let us stay."
  It may be so; but give me leave to doubt
  How long she'll keep you when she finds you out.

There was even some cooling of Tory loyalty to the new Queen. Chroniclers tell us of the ostentatious
difference in enthusiasm with which, at Tory dinners, the toasts of the Queen, and the Queen-dowager
were received.

As a matter of course, Lord Melbourne became the Queen's instructor in the duties of her position,
and as she had no private secretary, he had to be in constant attendance upon her--to see her,
not only daily, but sometimes three or four times a day. The Queen has given her testimony
to the unwearied kindness and pleasantness, the disinterested regard for her welfare, even
the generous fairness to political opponents, with which her Prime Minister discharged his
task. It seems as if the great trust imposed on him drew out all that was most manly and chivalrous
in a character which, along with much that was fine and attractive, that won to him all who
came in close contact with him, was not without the faults of the typical aristocrat, correctly
or incorrectly defined by the popular imagination. Lord Melbourne, with his sense and spirit,
honesty and good-nature, could be haughtily, indifferent, lazily self-indulgent, scornfully
careless even to affectation, of the opinions of his social inferiors, as when he appeared
to amuse himself with "idly blowing a feather or nursing a sofa-cushion while receiving an
important and perhaps highly sensitive deputation from this or that commercial interest." The
time has come when it is fully recognised that whatever might have been Lord Melbourne's defects,
he never brought them into his relations with the Queen. To her he was the frank, sincere,
devoted adviser of all that it was wisest and best for her to do. "He does not appear to have
been greedy of power, or to have used any unfair means of getting or keeping it. The character
of the young Sovereign seems to have impressed him deeply. His real or affected levity gave
way to a genuine and lasting desire to make her life as happy and her reign as successful as
he could. The Queen always felt the warmest affection and gratitude for him, and showed it
long after the public had given up the suspicion that she could be a puppet in the hands of
a Minister. "But men--especially Lord Melbourne's political adversaries--were not sufficiently
large-minded and large-hearted to put this confidence in him beforehand. They remembered with
wrath and disgust that, even in the language of men of the world, "his morals were not supposed
to be very strict." He had been unhappy in his family life. The eccentricities and follies
of Lady Caroline Lamb had formed the gossip of several London seasons long years before. Other
scandals had gathered round his name, and though they had been to some extent disproven, it
was indignantly asked, could there be a more unsuitable and undesirable guide for an innocent
royal girl of eighteen than this accomplished, bland roue of threescore? Should he be permitted
to soil--were it but in thought--the lily of whose stainlessness the nation was so proud? The
result proved that Lord Melbourne could be a blameless, worthy servant to his Sovereign.

In the meantime the great news of Queen Victoria's accession had travelled to the princely
student at Bonn, who responded to it in a manly, modest letter, in which he made no claim to
share the greatness, while he referred to its noble, solemn side. Prince Albert wrote on the
26th of June: "Now you are Queen of the mightiest land of Europe; in your hand lies the happiness
of millions. May Heaven assist you and strengthen you with its strength in that high but difficult
task. I hope that your reign may be long, happy, and glorious, and that your efforts may be
rewarded by the thankfulness and love of your subjects." To others he expressed his satisfaction
at what he heard of his cousin's astonishing self-possession, and of the high praise bestowed
on her by all parties, "which seemed to promise so auspiciously for her reign." But so far
from putting himself forward or being thrust forward by their common friends as an aspirant
for her hand, while she was yet only on the edge of that strong tide and giddy whirl of imposing
power and dazzling adulation which was too likely to sweep her beyond his grasp, it was resolved
by King Leopold and the kindred who were most concerned in the relations of the couple, that,
to give time for matters to settle down, for the young Queen to know her own mind--above all,
to dissipate the premature rumour of a formal engagement between the cousins which had taken
persistent hold of the public mind ever since the visit of the Saxe-Coburg princes to Kensington
Palace in the previous year, Prince Albert should travel for several months. Accordingly, he
set out, in company with his brother, to make an enjoyable tour, on foot, through Switzerland
and the north of Italy. To a nature like his, such an experience was full of keen delight;
but in the midst of his intoxication he never forgot his cousin. The correspondence between
them had been suffered to drop, but that she continued present to his thoughts was sufficiently
indicated by the souvenirs he collected specially for her: the views of the scenes he visited,
the Alpenrosen he gathered for her in its native home, Voltaire's autograph.

The Queen left Kensington, within a month of her uncle's death, we do not need to be told "greatly
to the regret of the inhabitants." She went on the 13th of July to take up her residence at
Buckingham Palace. "Shortly after one o'clock an escort of Lancers took up a position on the
Palace Green, long previous to which an immense concourse of respectable persons had thronged
the avenue and every open space near the Palace." About half-past one an open carriage drawn
by four greys, preceded by two outriders, and followed by an open barouche, drawn by four bays,
drove up from her Majesty's mews, Pimlico, and stopped before the grand entrance to the Duchess
of Kent's apartments. The Queen, accompanied by the Duchess of Kent and Baroness Lehzen, almost
immediately got into the first carriage. There was a tumult of cheering, frankly acknowledged.
It is said the young Queen looked "pale and a little sad" at the parting moment. Then with
a dash the carriages vanished in a cloud of July dust, and the familiar Palace Green, with
its spreading trees and the red chimneys beyond--the High Street--Kensington Gore, were left
behind. Kensington's last brief dream of a Court was brought to an abrupt conclusion. What
was worse, Kensington's Princess was gone, never to return to the changed scene save for the
most fleeting of visits.

We should like to give here one more story of her Majesty's stay at Kensington--a story that
refers to these last days. We have already spoken of an old soldier-servant of the Duke of
Kent's, said to have been named Stillman, who was quartered with his family--two of them sickly--in
a Kensington cottage of the period, visited by the Duchess of Kent and the Princess Victoria.
The little boy had died; the ailing girl still lived. The girl's clergyman, a gentleman named
Vaughan, went to see her some days after the Queen had quitted the Palace, and found the invalid
looking unusually bright. He inquired the reason. "Look there!". said the girl, and drew a
book of Psalms from under her pillow, "look what the new Queen has sent me to-day by one of
her ladies, with the message that, though now, as Queen of England, she had to leave Kensington,
she did not forget me." The lady who had brought the book had said the lines and figures in
the margin were the dates of the days on which the Queen herself had been accustomed to read
the Psalms, and that the marker, with the little peacock on it, was worked by the Princess's
own hand. The sick girl cried, and asked if this act was not beautiful?

CHAPTER V. THE PROROGUING OF PARLIAMENT, THE VISIT TO GUILDHALL, AND THE CORONATION.

Buckingham Palace had been a seat of the Duke of Buckingham's, which was bought by George II.,
and in the next reign was settled on Queen Charlotte instead of Somerset House, and called
the "Queen's House." It was rebuilt by George IV. but not occupied by him, and had been rarely
used by King William. Besides its gardens, which are of some extent, it shares with St. James's,
which it is near, the advantage of St. James's Park, one of the most agreeable in London, and
full of historic memories. Though it, too, was modernised by George IV., its features have
still much interest. It was by its canal, which has been twisted into the Serpentine, that
the Merry Monarch strolled alone, lazily playing with his dogs, feeding his ducks, and by his
easy confidence flattering and touching his good citizens of London. On the same water his
gay courtiers practised their foreign accomplishment of skating, which they had brought back
with them from the Low Countries. In the Mall both Charles and his brother, the Duke of York,
joined in the Court game of Palle Malle, when a ball was struck with a mallet through an iron
ring down a walk strewn with powdered cockle-shells. At a later period the Mall was the most
fashionable promenade in London. While dinners were still early on Sunday afternoons, the fashionable
world walked for an hour or two after dinner in the Mall. An eyewitness declared that he had
seen "in one moving mass, extending the whole length of the Mall, five thousand of the most
lovely women in this country of female beauty, all splendidly attired, and accompanied by as
many well-dressed men." For, as Mr. Hare, in his "Walks in London," points out, the frequenters
of the Mall were very different in one respect from the company in the Row: "The ladies were
in full dress and gentlemen carried their hats under their arms."

One relic of the past survives intact in the park--that is, the cow-stalls, which formerly
helped to constitute "Milk Fair." Mr. Hare tells us "the vendors are proud of the number of
generations through which the stalls have been held in their families."

From Buckingham Palace the Queen went in State on the 17th of July to close Parliament. The
carriage, with the eight cream-coloured horses, was used. As far as we can judge, this was
the first appearance in her Majesty's reign of "the creams," so dear to the London populace.
The carriage was preceded by the Marshalmen, a party of the Yeomen of the Guard in State costumes,
and runners. The fourth carriage, drawn by six black horses, contained the Marchioness of Lansdowne,
the Duchess of Sutherland, the Duke of Argyle, Lord Steward and Gold Stick in Waiting. The
Queen was accompanied by the Earl of Albemarle, Master of the Horse, and the Countess of Mulgrave,
the Lady-in-Waiting. The procession, escorted by a squadron of the Horse Guards, moved into
Whitehall, and was cheered in Parliament Street by deafening shouts from a mass of spectators
lining the streets and covering the house-tops. On arriving opposite the entrance of the House
of Lords her Majesty was received by a battalion of the Grenadier Guards, whose splendid band,
when she alighted, played the National Anthem.

Thus heralded, the young Queen entered the old Houses of Parliament, seated herself on the
throne of her ancestors, and accorded her maiden reception to her loyal Lords and faithful
Commons. This was the first occasion in a great assembly that people remarked the natural gift
which has proved a valuable possession to her Majesty, and has never failed to awaken the admiration
of the hearers. We allude to the peculiar silvery clearness, as well as sweetness, of a voice
which can be heard in its most delicate modulations through the whole House. In reply to the
Speaker of the House of Commons' assurance of the Commons' cordial participation in that strong
and universal feeling of dutiful and affectionate attachment which prevailed among the free
and loyal people of which they were the representatives, the Queen read her speech in an unfaltering
voice, thanking the Parliament for its condolence upon the death of his late Majesty, and for
its expressions of attachment and affection to herself, announcing her determination to preserve
all the rights, spiritual and civil, of her subjects, touching on the usual topics in a royal
speech in its relation to home and foreign affairs, and making the solemn assertion: "I ascend
the throne with a deep sense of the responsibility which is imposed upon me, but I am supported
by the consciousness of my own right intentions and by my dependence on the protection of Almighty
God." Fanny Kemble was present at this memorable scene, and has given her impression of it.
Her testimony, as a public speaker, is valuable. "The Queen was not handsome, but very pretty,
and the singularity of her great position lent a sentimental and poetical charm to her youthful
face and figure. The serene, serious sweetness of her candid brow and clear soft eyes gave
dignity to the girlish countenance, while the want of height only added to the effect of extreme
youth of the round but slender person, and gracefully moulded hands and arms. The Queen's voice
was exquisite, nor have I ever heard any spoken words more musical in their gentle distinctness
than "My Lords and Gentlemen," which broke the breathless silence of the illustrious assembly
whose gaze was riveted on that fair flower of royalty. The enunciation was as perfect as the
intonation was melodious, and I think it is impossible to hear a more excellent utterance than
that of the Queen's English by the English Queen."

The accession of Queen Victoria almost coincided with a new era in English history, art and
letters, new relations in politics at home and abroad, new social movements undreamt of when
she was born. In spite of the strong party spirit, the country was at peace within and without.
France, the foreign neighbour of most importance to England, was also at peace under a so-called
"citizen-king." The "Tractarian" movement at Oxford was startling the world with a proposed
return to the practices of the primitive Church, while it laid the foundation of the High Church
and Ritualistic parties in the modern Church of England. The names of Newman and Pusey especially
were in many mouths, spoken in various terms of reprobation and alarm, or approval and exultation.
Next to Tractarianism, Chartism--the people's demand for a charter which should meet their
wants--was a rising force, though it had not reached its full development. Arnold was doing
his noble work, accomplishing a moral revolution in the public schools of England. Milman and
Grote had arisen as historians. Faraday was one of the chief lights of science. Sir John Herschel
occupied his father's post among the stars. Beautiful modest Mary Somerville showed what a
woman might do with the Differential Calculus; Brewster had taken the place of Sir Humphry
Davy. Murchison was anticipating Robert Dick and Hugh Miller in geology. Alfred Tennyson had
already published two volumes of poems; Browning had given to the world his "Paracelsus," and
this very year (1837) his Strafford had been performed at Covent Garden, while it was still
on the cards that his calling might be that of a great dramatist. Dickens, the Scott of the
English lower-middle classes, was bringing out his "Pickwick Papers." Disraeli had got into
the House of Commons at last, and his "Vivian Grey" was fully ten years old. So was Bulwer's
"Pelbam"--the author of which also aided in forming the literary element of the House of Commons
in the Queen's first Parliament. Mrs. Gore, Mrs. Trollope, Miss Mitford, Mrs. S. C. Hail, and
Harriet Martinean represented under very different aspects the feminine side of fiction. Macready
remained the stage king, but he shared his royalty with the younger Kean. A younger Kemble
had also played Juliet well, but the stage queen was Helen Faucit. In painting, Turner was
working in his last style; Stanfield's sea-pieces were famous. Mulready and Leslie were in
the front as genre painters. Maclise was making his reputation; Etty had struggled into renown,
while poor Haydon was sinking into despair. Landseer was already the great animal painter.
Sir C. Eastlake had court commissions. Wilkie, too, still had royal commissions, but his best
work was done, and he was soon to set out on his last travels in a vain search after health
and strength.

Withal the world was a light-hearted world enough--not so hurried as it is to-day, though railways
were well established, and the electric telegraph had been hit upon in this same 1837. Young
blood continued hot, and play was apt to be riotous. Witness the fantastic frolics of the Marquis
of Waterford--public property in those years. He had inherited the eccentricities of the whole
Delaval race, and not content with tickling his peers in England, carried his whims and pranks
into Scotland and Ireland and across the Channel. Various versions of his grotesque feats circulated
and scintillated through all classes, provoking laughter, and tempting to clumsy imitation,
till the gentleman may be said to have had a species of world-wide reputation in a madly merry way.

The Queen held a review at Windsor on the 28th of September, 1837. She had dwelt at Windsor
before as a cherished guest; but what must it not have been to her to enter these gates as
the Queen? The rough hunting-seat of William Rufus had long been the proudest and fairest palace
in England. St George's Tower and battlements are the most royal in these realms. St. George's
Hall and St. George's Chapel are the best examples of ancient and modern chivalry. The stately
terrace commanding the red turrets of Eton and the silvery reaches of the Thames, where George
III. and Queen Charlotte, with their large family and household, were wont to promenade on
Sunday afternoons for the benefit of their Majesties' loyal subjects, where the blind old King
used to totter along supported by two of his faithful Princesses; the green alleys and glades
of the ancient forest, with the great boles of the venerable oaks--Queen Elizabeth's among
them; Virginia Water sparkling in the sunshine or glimmering in the moonlight, all make up
such a kingly residence, as in many respects cannot be surpassed. What must it not have been
to enter the little Court town, another Versailles or Fontainebleau, as its liege Lady, to
be hailed and welcomed by the goodly throng of Eton lads--those gay and gallant attendants
on royal Windsor pageants--to pass through these halls as their mistress, and fairly recognise
that all the noble surroundings were hers, with all England, all Britain and many a great dependency
and colony on which the sun never sets--hers to rule over, hers to bless if she would?

At the review, in compliment to her soldiers whom she saw marshalled in their disciplined masses,
and saluting her as the Captain of their Captains--even of Wellington himself--the Queen wore
a half-military dress--a tight jacket with deep lappels, the blue riband of the Garter across
one shoulder, and its jewelled star upon her breast, a stocklike black neckerchief in stiff
folds holding up the round throat, and on the head--hiding nearly all the fair hair--a round,
high, flatcap with a broad black "snout"; beneath it the soft, open, girlish face, with its
single-hearted dignity.

In this month of September the Queen heard that her sister-queen and girl friend, Donna Maria
da Gloria, had received consolation for the troubles of her kingdom in becoming the youthful
mother of a son and heir, Prince Ferdinand of Portugal.

By November the Court was back at Buckingham Palace, and on the 9th the Queen paid her first
visit to the City of London, which received her with magnificent hospitality.

Long before the hour appointed for her Majesty's departure for Guildhall, all the approaches
to the palace and the park itself presented dense crowds of holiday folks. At two o'clock the
first carriage of the procession emerged from the triumphal arch, and in due time came the
royal State carriage, in which sat the Queen, attended by the Mistress of the Robes and the
Master of the Horse. Her Majesty's full-dress was a "splendid pink satin shot with silver."
She wore a queenly diamond tiara, and, as we are told, looked remarkably well. Her approach
was the signal for enthusiastic cheering, which increased as she advanced, while the bells
of the city churches rang out merry peals. The fronts of the houses were decorated with bright-coloured
cloth, green boughs, and such flowers as November had spared. Devices in coloured lamps waited
for the evening illumination to bring them out in perfection. Venetian masts had not been hoisted
then in England, but "rows of national flags and heraldic banners were stretched across the
Strand at several points, and busts and portraits of her Majesty were placed in conspicuous
positions." The only person in the Queen's train who excited much interest was the Duke of
Wellington, and he heard himself loudly cheered. The mob was rapidly condoning what they had
considered his errors as a statesman, and restoring him to his old eminence, in their estimation,
as the hero of the long wars, the conqueror of Bonaparte. Applause or reprobation the veteran
met with almost equal coolness. When he had been besieged by raging, threatening crowds, calling
upon him to do justice to Queen Caroline, as he rode to Westminster during the wild days of
her trial, he had answered "Yes, yes," without a muscle of his face moving, and pushed on straight
to his destination. For many a year he was to receive every contrite huzza, as he had received
every fierce hiss, with no more than the twinkling of an eyelid or the raising of two fingers.

The gathering at Temple Bar--real, grim old Temple Bar, which had borne traitors' heads in
former days--was so great that a detachment of Life Guards, as well as a strong body of police,
had work to do in clearing a way for the carriages. The aldermen had to be accommodated with
a room in Child's old banking-house, founded by the typical industrious apprentice who married
his master's daughter. It sported the quaint old sign of the "Marigold," and was supposed to
hold sheaves of papers containing noble, nay, royal secrets, as well as bushels of family jewels,
in its strong boxes. It had even a family romance of its own, for did not the great Child of
his day pursue his heiress in her flight to Gretna with the heir of the Villiers, who, leaning,
pistol in hand, from his postchaise in front, sent a bullet into the near horse of the chaise
behind, and escaped with his prize?

Undisturbed by these exciting stories, the aldermen waited in the dim interior--charged with
other than money-lending mysteries, till the worthy gentlemen were joined by the Lord Mayor
and sheriffs, when they proceeded to mount their chargers in Temple Yard--perhaps the most
disturbing proceeding of any, with the riders' minds a little soothed by the circumstance that
the horses had been brought from the Artillery barracks at Woolwich, and each was led by the
soldier to which it belonged, in the capacity of groom.

"A few minutes before three the approach of the Queen was announced. The Lord Mayor dismounted,
and, taking the City sword in his hand, stood on the south side of Temple Bar. As soon as the
Queen's carriage arrived within the gateway it stopped, and then, unfortunately, it began to
rain." The Queen's weather, which has become proverbial, of which we are given to boast, did
not attend her on this occasion. Perhaps it would have been too much to expect of the clouds
when the date was the 9th of November. Regardless of the weather, "the Lord Mayor delivered
the keys of the City to the Queen, which her Majesty restored in the most gracious manner."
At this time the multitude above, around, and below, from windows, scaffolding, roofs, and
parapets, cheered long and loud. The Lord Mayor remounted, and, holding the City sword aloft,
took his place immediately before the royal carriage, after which the aldermen, members of
the Common Council, and civic authorities formed in procession.

Rather a curious ceremony was celebrated in front of St. Paul's. Booths and hustings had been
erected in the enclosure for the accommodation of members of the different City companies and
the boys of Christ's Hospital. "The royal carriage having stopped in the middle of the road,
opposite the cathedral gate, a platform was wheeled out, on which were Mr. Frederick Gifford
Nash, senior scholar of Christ's Hospital, and the head master and treasurer. The scholar,
in conformity with an old usage, delivered an address of congratulation to her Majesty, concluding
with an earnest prayer for her welfare. 'God Save the Queen' was then sung by the scholars
and a great part of the multitude."

But already the dreariness and discomfort of a dark and wet November afternoon had been too
much even for the staunchest loyalty, and had dispersed the feebler spirits among the onlookers.
The Lord Mayor assisted her Majesty to alight at the door of the Guildhall, where the Lady
Mayoress was waiting to be presented by her husband. In the drawing-room the address of the
City of London was read by the Recorder, and replied to by the Queen. At twenty minutes past
five dinner was announced, and the Queen, preceded by the Lord Mayor and the Lady Mayoress,
and conducted by the Lord Chamberlain, in "respectful silence," descended into the hall where
the banquet was prepared. The great old hall, with its "glorious timber roof," could hardly
have known itself. Gog and Magog--compared by Nathaniel Hawthorne to "playthings for the children
of giants"--must have looked down with goggle eyes at the transformation. These were different
days from the time when Anne Ascue, of Kelsey, was tried there for heresy, and the brave, keen-witted
lady told her judges, when examined on the doctrine of transubstantiation, she had heard that
God made man, but that man made God she had never heard; or when gallant Surrey encountered
his enemies; or melodious Waller was called to account. It was on the raised platform at the
east end of the hall that the Common Council had expended its strength of ornament and lavished
its wealth. Here London outdid itself. The throne was placed there. "It was surmounted by an
entablature, with the letters V. R. supporting the royal crown and cushion. In the front was
an external valance of crimson velvet, richly laced and trimmed with tassels. The back-fluting
was composed of white satin, relieved with the royal arms in gold. The curtains were of crimson
velvet, trimmed with lace and lined with crimson silk. The canopy was composed of crimson velvet,
with radiated centre of white satin enamelled with gold, forming a gold ray from which the
centre of velvet diverged; a valance of crimson velvet, laced with gold, depended from the
canopy, which was intersected with cornucopia, introducing the rose, thistle, and shamrock,
in white velvet. Beneath this splendid canopy was placed the State-chair, which was richly
carved and gilt, and ornamented with the royal arms and crown, including the rose, thistle,
and shamrock, in crimson velvet. Its proportions were tastefully and judiciously diminished
to a size that should in some sort correspond with the slight and elegant figure of the young
Sovereign for whom it was provided. The platform on which the throne stood was covered with
ermine and gold carpeting of the richest description." ... In front of the throne was placed
the royal table, extending the whole width of the platform. It was thirty-four feet long and
eight wide, and was covered with a cloth of the most exquisite damask, trimmed with gold lace
and fringe. The sides and front of the platform were decked with a profusion of the rarest
plants and shrubs. The royal table was on a dais above the level of the hall. A large mirror
at each side of the throne reflected the gorgeous scene. From the impromptu dais four long
tables extended nearly half-way down the hall, where the Lord and Lady Mayoress presided over
the company of foreign ambassadors, Cabinet Ministers, nobility, aldermen, and members of the
Common Council. The "royal avenue" led up the middle of the hall to the throne, with the tables
on each side. The Queen took her seat on the throne; the Lord and Lady Mayoress stood on either
side of her Majesty, but were almost immediately bidden be seated at their table.

The company had now time to study the central figure, the cause and culmination of the assembly.
Over her pink and silver she wore the riband and order of the Garter, with the George appended.
Besides her diamond tiara she had a stomacher of brilliants, and diamond ear-rings. She sat
in the middle of a regal company, only two of the others young like herself. To the rest she
must have been the child of yesterday; while to each and all she preserved in full the natural
relations, and was as much the daughter, niece, and cousin as of old; yet, at the same time,
she was every inch the Queen. What a marvel it must have seemed--still more to those who sat
near than to those who stood afar. The Queen was supported by the Dukes of Sussex and Cambridge,
the Duchesses of Kent, Gloucester, Cambridge, and Sutherland; and there were present her two
cousins, Prince George and Princess Augusta Of Cambridge.

After dinner, Non Nobus Domine was sung; and then, preceded by a flourish of trumpets, the
common crier advanced to the middle of the hall and said, "The Right Honourable the Lord Mayor
gives the health of our most gracious Sovereign, Queen Victoria."

The company simultaneously rose and drank the toast with enthusiasm. "God Save the Queen" was
sung, after which her Majesty rose and bowed repeatedly with marked goodwill.... The common
crier then shouted, "Her Majesty gives the Lord Mayor and Prosperity to the City of London."
Bishop's "When the Wind Blows" was sung. The only other toast was, "The Royal Family," given
by the Lord Mayor.

At half-past eight her Majesty's carriage was announced. The weather was unpleasant, the streets
were unusually dirty, but a vast crowd once more greeted her. On arriving at the end of Cheapside,
she was hailed out of the glimmering illumination and foggy lamplight by "God Save the Queen,"
again sung by many hundred voices, accompanied by a band of wind instruments, the performance
of the Harmonic Society, and the music was followed all the way by enthusiastic cheering. The
Baroness Bunsen remarked of such a scene long afterwards, "I was at a loss to conceive how
any woman's sides can 'bear the beating of so strong a throb' as must attend the consciousness
of being the object of all that excitement, and the centre of attraction for all those eyes.
But the Queen has royal strength of nerve." Not so much strength of nerve, we should say, as
strength of single-heartedness and simple sense of duty which are their own reward, together
with the comparative immunity produced by long habit.

Still it is a little relief to turn from so much State and strain to a brief glimpse of the
girl-Queen in something like the privacy of domestic life. In the month of November, 1837,
the Attorney-General, Lord Campbell, with his wife, Lady Stratheden, received an invitation
to Buckingham Palace, to dine with her Majesty at seven, and one of the guests wrote thus of
the entertainment: "I went, and found it exceedingly agreeable, although by no means so grand
as dining at Tarvit with Mrs. Rigg. The little Queen was exceedingly kind to me, and said she
had heard from the Duchess of Gloucester that I had the most beautiful children in the world.
She asked me how many we had, and when she heard seven, seemed rather appalled, considering
this a number which she would never be able to reach. She seems in perfect health, and is as
merry and playful as a kitten."

Amongst the other innumerable engagements which engrossed every moment of the Queen from the
time of her accession, she had been called on to sit for her portrait to many eager artists--among
them Hayter and Sir David Wilkie. The last has recorded his impression of her in his manly,
unaffected, half-homely words. "Having been accustomed to see the Queen from a child, my reception
had a little the air of that of an early acquaintance. She is eminently beautiful, her features
nicely formed, her skin smooth, her hair worn close to her face in a most simple way, glossy
and clean-looking. Her manner, though trained to act the Sovereign, is yet simple and natural.
She has all the decision, thought, and self-possession of a queen of older years, has all the
buoyancy of youth, and from the smile to the unrestrained laugh, is a perfect child. While
I was there she was sitting to Pistrucci for her coin, and to Hayter for a picture for King
Leopold."

The mention of the coin recalls the "image and superscription" on the gold, silver, and copper
that passes through our hands daily, which we almost forget to identify with the likeness of
the young Queen. About this time also commenced the royal patronage of Landseer, which resulted
later in many a family group, in which numerous four-footed favourites had their place. At
the exhibition of Landseer's works after his death, the sight of these groups recalled to elderly
men and women who had been his early neighbours, the days when a goodly cavalcade of ladies
and gentlemen, with their grooms, on horseback, used to sweep past the windows, and the word
went that the young Queen was honouring the painter by a visit to his studio.

On the 20th of November the Queen went in State to the House of Lords to open Parliament for
the first time, with as great a crowd of members and strangers present as had flocked to witness
the prorogation in July. In the course of the month of December the bills were passed which
fixed the Queen's income at three hundred and eighty-five thousand pounds a year, and further
raised the Duchess of Kent's annuity from twenty-two thousand, which it had been latterly,
to thirty thousand a year. On the 23rd of December the Queen went to give her assent to the
bills, and thank her Parliament personally, according to old custom on such an occasion. On
presenting the bill the Speaker observed that it had been framed in "a liberal and confiding
spirit." The Queen simply bowed her acknowledgement.

Lord Melbourne, "with the tears in his eyes," told Lord Campbell that in one of his first interviews
with the Queen she had said to him, "My father's debts must be paid." Accordingly the late
Duke of Kent's debts were paid by his daughter, in the name of herself and her mother, in the
first year of Queen Victoria's reign. In the second year she discharged the debts which the
Duchess of Kent had incurred in meeting the innumerable heavy calls made upon her, not only
as the widow of one of the Royal Dukes, but as the mother of the future Sovereign.

The summer of 1838 was gay with the preparations for the Queen's coronation. All classes took
the greatest interest in it, so that splenetic people pronounced the nation "coronation mad."
Long before the event coronation medals were being struck, coronation songs and hymns written,
coronation ribands woven. Every ingenious method by which the world could commemorate the joyful
season was put in practice. The sentiment was not confined to the inhabitants of the United
Kingdom. "Foreigners of various conditions, and from all quarters of Europe, flocked in to
behold the inauguration of the maiden monarch of the British Empire. In the Metropolis for
some weeks anterior to the event the excitement was extreme. The thousand equipages which thronged
the streets, the plumed retainers of the ambassadors, the streams of swarthy strangers, and
the incessant din of preparation, which resounded by night as well as by day, along the intended
line of the procession, constituted by themselves a scene of no ordinary animation and interest,
and sustained the public mind in an unceasing stretch of expectation."

Some disappointment was experienced on the knowledge that the ancient custom of a royal banquet
in Westminster Hall on the coronation day was to be dispensed with. But the loss was compensated
by a procession--a modification of the old street pageant--on the occasion.

On the morning of the 28th of June the weather was not promising. It was cold for the season,
and some rain fell; but the shower ceased, and the day proved fresh and bright, with sunshine
gilding the darkest cloud. The Tower artillery awoke the heaviest City sleepers. It is needless
to say a great concourse, in every variety of vehicle and on foot, streamed from east to west
through the "gravelled" streets, lined with soldiers and policemen, before the barriers were
put up. "The earth was alive with men," wrote an enthusiastic spectator; "the habitations in
the line of march cast forth their occupants to the balconies or the house-tops; the windows
were lifted out of their frames, and the asylum of private life, that sanctuary which our countrymen
guard with such traditional jealousy, was on this occasion made accessible to the gaze of the
entire world."

At ten o'clock the Queen left Buckingham Palace in the State coach, to the music of the National
Anthem and a salute of guns, and passed beneath the Royal Standard hoisted on the marble arch.
A marked feature of the procession was the magnificent carriages and escorts of the foreign
ambassadors: the splendid uniform of the German Jagers delighted the populace. A deeper and
subtler feeling was produced by the sight of one of Napoleon's marshals, Soult, Wellington's
great adversary, rearing his white head in a coach the framework of which had belonged to the
State carriage of the Prince de Conde, and figured in the beaux jours of Louis XVI. The consciousness
that this worthy foe had come to do honour to the young Queen awoke a generous response from
the crowd. Soult was cheered lustily along the whole route, and in the Abbey itself, so that
he returned to France not only full of personal gratification at the welcome he had received,
but strongly convinced of the goodwill of John Bull to Frenchmen in general. How the balls
of destiny roll! Soult feted in London, Ney dead by a traitor's death, filling his nameless
grave in Pere la Chaise. The procession, beginning with trumpeters and Life Guards, wound its
way in relays of foreign ambassadors, members of the royal family and their suites--the Duchess
of Kent first--the band of the Household Brigade, the Queen's bargemaster and her forty-eight
watermen--honorary servants for many a day--twelve carriages with her Majesty's suite, a squadron
of Life Guards, equerries, gentlemen riders and military officials, the royal huntsmen, yeomen-prickers,
and foresters, six of her Majesty's horses, with rich trappings, each horse led by two grooms;
the Knight-Marshal, marshalmen, Yeomen of the Guard, the State coach--drawn by eight cream-coloured
horses, attended by a Yeoman of the Guard at each wheel, and two footmen at each door--the
Gold Stick, Viscount Combermere, and the Captain of the Yeomen of the Guard, the Earl of Ilchester,
riding on either side. In the coach sat the Queen, the Mistress of the Robes (the Duchess of
Sutherland), the Master of the Horse (the Earl of Albemarle), and the Captain-General of the
Royal Archers (the Duke of Buccleugh). The whole was wound up by a squadron of Life Guards.
In this order of stately march, under the June sky, emerging from the green avenues of the
park, the procession turned up Constitution Hill, traversed Piccadilly, St. James's Street,
Pall Mall, Cockspur Street, and by Charing Cross, Whitehall, and Parliament Street, reached
the west door of Westminster Abbey--

  Where royal heads receive the sacred gold.

At the Abbey door, at half-past eleven, the Queen was received by the great officers of State,
the noblemen bearing the regalia, the bishops carrying the patina, the chalice, and the Bible.
Her Majesty proceeded to the robing-room, and there was a hush of expectation in the thronged
interior, where the great persons who were to play a part in the ceremony and the privileged
ticket-holders had been waiting patiently for long hours.

Underneath the galleries and below the platform were ranged lines of Foot Guards. The platform
(under the central tower) was the most conspicuous object. It was covered with cloth of gold,
and bore the chair of homage, or throne, facing the altar. Farther on, within the altar-rails,
was "St. Edward's Chair," or the chair decorated by "William the Painter" for Edward. Enclosed
within it is the "Stone of Destiny," or Fatal Stone of Scone--a sandy stone, supposed to have
formed the pillow on which Jacob slept at Bethel, and long used in the coronation of the Scotch
kings. In this chair all the kings of England, since the time of Edward I., have been crowned.
The altar was covered with massive gold plate.

The galleries of the Abbey were arranged for the members of the House of Commons, the foreign
ambassadors, the judges, Knights of the Bath, members of the Corporation, &c. &c. The floor
of the transepts was occupied by benches for the peers and peeresses, who may be said to be
in their glory at a coronation; the space behind them was for the ticket-holders.

Harriet Martineau has preserved some of the splendours and "humours" of the coronation with
her usual clever power of observation and occasional caustic commentary. "The maids called
me at half-past two that June morning, mistaking the clock. I slept no more, and rose at half-past
three. As I began to dress the twenty-one guns were fired, which must have awakened all the
sleepers in London. When the maid came to dress me she said numbers of ladies were already
hurrying to the Abbey. I saw the grey old Abbey from the window as I dressed, and thought what
would have gone forward within it before the sun set upon it. My mother had laid out her pearl
ornaments for me. The feeling was very strange of dressing in crape, blonde, and pearls at
five in the morning.... The sight of the rapidly filling Abbey was enough to go for. The stone
architecture contrasted finely with the gay colours of the multitude. From my high seat I commanded
the whole north transept, the area with the throne, and many portions of galleries, and the
balconies which were called the vaultings. Except a mere sprinkling of oddities, everybody
was in full dress. In the whole assemblage I counted six bonnets. The scarlet of the military
officers mixed in well, and the groups of the clergy were dignified; but to an unaccustomed
eye the prevalence of Court dresses had a curious effect. I was perpetually taking whole groups
of gentlemen for Quakers till I recollected myself. The Earl-Marshal's assistants, called Gold
Sticks, looked well from above, lightly fluttering about in white breeches, silk stockings,
blue laced frocks, and white sashes. The throne--an arm-chair with a round back, covered, as
was its footstool, with cloth of gold--stood on an elevation of four steps in the centre of
the area. The first peeress took her seat in the north transept opposite, at a quarter before
seven, and three of the bishops came next. From that time the peers and their ladies arrived
faster and faster. Each peeress was conducted by two Gold Sticks, one of whom handed her to
her seat, and the other bore and arranged her train on her lap, and saw that her coronet, footstool,
and book were comfortably placed. I never saw anywhere so remarkable a contrast between youth
and age as in these noble ladies." Miss Martineau proceeds to remark in the strongest and plainest
terms on the unbecoming effect of full dress, with "hair drawn to the top of the head, to allow
the putting on of the coronet" on these venerable matrons. She goes on to express her admiration
of a later generation of peeresses. "The younger were as lovely as the aged were haggard....
About nine the first gleams of the sun slanted into the Abbey and presently travelled down
to the peeresses. I had never before seen the full effect of diamonds. As the light travelled
each peeress shone like a rainbow. The brightness, vastness, and dreamy magnificence of the
scene produced a strange effect of exhaustion and sleepiness.... The great guns told when the
Queen had set forth, and there was renewed animation. The Gold Sticks flitted about, there
was tuning in the orchestra, and the foreign ambassadors and their suites arrived in quick
succession. Prince Esterhazy crossing a bar of sunshine was the most prodigious rainbow of
all. He was covered with diamonds and pearls, and as he dangled his hat it cast a dancing radiance
all round.

"At half-past eleven the guns told that the Queen had arrived, but as there was much to be
done in the robing-room, there was a long pause before she appeared."

A little after twelve the grand procession of the day entered the choir. The Prebendaries and
Dean of Westminster and Officers-at-Arms, the Comptroller, Treasurer, Vice-Chamberlain, and
Lord Steward of her Majesty's Household, the Lord Privy Seal, the Lord President, the Lord
Chancellor of Ireland, came first. When these gentlemen were peers their coronets were carried
by pages. The Treasurer bore the crimson bag with the medals; the Vice-Chancellor was attended
by an officer from the Jewel Office, conveying, on a cushion, the ruby ring and the sword for
the offering. Then followed the Archbishops of Canterbury, York, and Armagh, with the Lord
Chancellor, each archbishop in his rochet, with his cap in his hand; the princesses of the
blood royal, all in "robes of estate" of purple velvet and wearing circlets of gold; the Duchess
of Cambridge, her train borne by Lady Caroline Campbell and a gentleman of her household, her
coronet by Viscount Villiers; the Duchess of Kent, her train borne by Lady Flora Hastings,
and her coronet by Viscount Morpeth; the Duchess of Gloucester, her train borne by Lady Caroline
Legge, and her coronet by Viscount Evelyn. (The royal generation next that of George III. was
fast dwindling away when these three ladies represented the six daughters and the wives of
six of the sons of the old King and Queen. But there were other survivors, though they were
not present to-day. The Queen-dowager; Princess Augusta, an aged woman of seventy; Princess
Elizabeth, Landgravine of Hesse-Homburg, nearly as old, and absent in Germany; the Queen as
well as the King of Hanover, who had figured formerly as Duke and Duchess of Cumberland; and
Princess Sophia, who was ten years younger than Princess Augusta, and resident in England,
but who was an invalid.) The regalia came next, St. Edward's staff, borne by the Duke of Roxburgh,
the golden spurs borne by Lord Byron, the sceptre with the cross borne by the Duke of Cleveland,
the third sword borne by the Marquis of Westminster, Curtana borne by the Duke of Devonshire,
the second sword borne by the Duke of Sutherland, each nobleman's coronet carried by a page,
Black Rod and Deputy-Garter walking before Lord Willoughby d'Eresby, Lord Great Chamberlain
of England, with page and coronet.

The princes of the blood royal were reduced to two. The Duke of Cambridge, in his robe of estate,
carrying his baton as Field-Marshal, his coronet borne by the Marquis of Granby, his train
by Sir William Gomm; the Duke of Sussex, his coronet carried by Viscount Anson, his train by
the Honourable Edward Gore.

The High Constable of Ireland, the Duke of Leinster; the High Constable of Scotland, the Earl
of Errol, with their pages and coronets. The Earl-Marshal of England, the Duke of Norfolk,
with his staff, attended by two pages; the sword of State, borne by Viscount Melbourne, with
his page and coronet; the Lord High Constable of England, the Duke of Wellington, with his
staff and baton as Field-Marshal, attended by two pages. The sceptre with the dove, borne by
the Duke of Richmond, page and coronet; St. Edward's crown, borne by the Lord High Steward,
the Duke of Hamilton, attended by two pages; the orb, borne by the Duke of Somerset, page and
coronet. The patina, borne by the Bishop of Bangor; the Bible, borne by the Bishop of Winchester;
the chalice, borne by the Bishop of London.

At last the Queen entered, walking between the Bishops of Bath and Wells and Durham, with Gentlemen-at-Arms
on each side. She was now a royal maiden of nineteen, with a fair, pleasant face, a slight
figure, rather small in stature, but showing a queenly carriage, especially in the pose of
the throat and head. She wore a royal robe of crimson velvet furred with ermine and bordered
with gold lace. She had on the collars of her orders. Like the other princesses, she wore a
gold circlet on her head. Her train was borne by eight "beautiful young ladies," as Sir David
Wilkie called them, all dressed alike, some of them destined to officiate again as the Queen's
bridesmaids, when the loveliness of the group attracted general attention and admiration. These
noble damsels were Lady Adelaide Paget, Lady Fanny Cowper, Lady Anne Wentworth Fitzwilliam,
Lady Mary Grimston, Lady Caroline Gordon Lennox, Lady Mary Talbot, Lady Catherine Stanhope,
Lady Louisa Jenkinson. The Ladies of her Majesty's Household came next in order, the Duchess
of Sutherland, the Mistress of the Robes, walking first, followed by Lady Lansdowne as first
Lady of the Bed-chamber. Other ladies of the Bed-chamber, whose names were long familiar in
association with that of the Queen, included Ladies Charlemont, Lyttelton, Portman, Tavistock,
Mulgrave, and Barham. The Maids of Honour bore names once equally well known in the Court Circular,
while the office brought with it visions of old historic Maids prominent in Court gossip, and
revealed to this day possibilities of sprightliness reined in by Court etiquette, and innocent
little scrapes condoned by royal graciousness and kindness. The Maids of Honour at the Queen's
coronation were the Honourable Misses Margaret Dillon, Cavendish, Lister, Spring Rice, Harriet
Pitt, Caroline Cocks, Matilda Paget, and Murray. One has heard and read less of the Women of
the Bed-chamber, noble ladies also, no doubt, but by the time the superb procession reached
them, with the gathering up of the whole in Goldsticks, Captains of the Royal Archers, of the
Yeomen of the Guard, of the Gentlemen-at-Arms, though pages and coronets still abounded, the
strained attention could take in no more accessories, but was fain to return to the principal
figure in the pageant, and dwell with all eyes on her.

"The Queen looked extremely well, and had an animated countenance." The scene within the choir
on her entrance was so gorgeous, that, it is said, even the Turkish Ambassador, accustomed
we should say to gorgeousness, stopped short in astonishment. As the Queen advanced slowly
toward the centre of the choir, she was received with hearty plaudits, everybody rising, the
anthem, "I was glad," sung by the musicians, ringing through the Abbey. "At the close of the
anthem, the Westminster boys (who occupied seats at the extremity of the lower galleries on
the northern and southern sides of the choir) chanted Vivat Victoria Regina. The Queen moved
towards a chair placed midway between the chair of homage and the altar, on the carpeted space
before described, which is called the theatre." Here she knelt down on a faldstool set for
her before her chair, and used some private prayers. She then took her seat in the chair and
the ceremonial proceeded.

First came "the Recognition" by the Archbishop of Canterbury, who advanced to the Queen, accompanied
by the Lord Chancellor, the Lord Chamberlain, the Lord High Constable, and the Earl-Marshal,
preceded by the Deputy-Garter, and repeated these words: "Sirs, I here present unto you Queen
Victoria, the undoubted Queen of this realm, wherefore all you who are come this day to do
your homage, are you willing to do the same?" Then burst forth the universal cry from the portion
of her Majesty's subjects present, "God save Queen Victoria." The Archbishop, turning to the
north, south, and west sides of the Abbey, repeated, "God save Queen Victoria," the Queen turning
at the same time in the same direction.

"The Bishops who bore the patina, Bible, and chalice in the procession, placed the same on
the altar. The Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishops who were to read the Litany put on
their copes. The Queen, attended by the Bishops of Durham and Bath and Wells, and the Dean
of Westminster, with the great officers of State and noblemen bearing the regalia, advanced
to the altar, and, kneeling upon the crimson velvet cushion, made her first offering, being
a pall or altar-cloth of gold, which was delivered by an officer of the Wardrobe to the Lord
Chamberlain, by his lordship to the Lord Great Chamberlain, and by him to the Queen, who delivered
it to the Archbishop of Canterbury, by whom it was placed on the altar. The Treasurer of the
Household then delivered an ingot of gold, of one pound weight, to the Lord Great Chamberlain,
who having presented the same to the Queen, her Majesty delivered it to the Archbishop, by
whom it was put into the oblation basin.

"The Archbishop delivered a prayer in the prescribed form. The regalia were laid on the altar
by the Archbishop. The great officers of State, except the Lord Chamberlain, retired to their
respective places, and the Bishops of Worcester and St. David's read the Litany. Then followed
the Communion service, read by the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishops of Rochester and
Carlisle. At the conclusion of the sermon 'the oath' was administered to the Queen by the Archbishop
of Canterbury. The form of swearing was as follows: The Archbishop put certain questions, which
the Queen answered in the affirmative, relative to the maintenance of the law and the established
religion; and then her Majesty, with the Lord Chamberlain and other officers, the sword of
State being carried before her, went to the altar, and laying her right hand upon the Gospels
in the Bible carried in the procession, and now brought to her by the Archbishop of Canterbury,
said, kneeling:

"'The things which I have here before promised I will perform and keep. So help me God.'

"The Queen kissed the book and signed a transcript of the oath presented to her by the Archbishop.
She then kneeled upon her faldstool, and the choir sang 'Veni, Creator, Spiritus.'

"'The Anointing' was the next part of the ceremony. The Queen sat in King Edward's chair; four
Knights of the Garter--the Dukes of Buccleugh and Rutland, and the Marquesses of Anglesea and
Exeter--held a rich cloth of gold over her head; the Dean of Westminster took the ampulla from
the altar, and poured some of the oil it contained into the anointing spoon, then the Archbishop
anointed the head and hands of the Queen, marking them in the form of a cross, and pronouncing
the words, 'Be thou anointed with holy oil, as kings, priests, and prophets were anointed;
and as Solomon was anointed king by Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, so be you anointed,
blessed, and consecrated Queen over this people, whom the Lord your God hath given you to rule
and govern, in the name of the Father, and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen.'

"The Archbishop then said the blessing over her.

"The spurs were presented by the Lord Chamberlain, and the sword of State by Viscount Melbourne,
who, however, according to custom, redeemed it with a hundred shillings, and carried it during
the rest of the ceremony. Then followed the investing with the 'royal robes and the delivery
of the orb,' and the 'investiture per annulum et baculum,' by the ring and sceptre.

"The Coronation followed. The Archbishop of Canterbury offered a prayer to God to bless her
Majesty and crown her with all princely virtues. The Dean of Westminster took the crown from
the altar, and the Archbishop of Canterbury, with the Archbishops of York and Armagh, the Bishops
of London, Durham, and other Prelates, advanced towards the Queen, and the Archbishop taking
the crown from the Dean reverently placed it on the Queen's head. This was no sooner done than
from every part of the crowded edifice arose a loud and enthusiastic cry of 'God save the Queen,'
mingled with lusty cheers, and accompanied by the waving of hats and handkerchiefs. At this
moment, too, the Peers and Peeresses present put on their coronets, the Bishops their caps,
and the Kings-of-Arms their crowns; the trumpets sounding, the drums beating, and the Tower
and park guns firing by signal."

Harriet Martineau, who, like most of the mere spectators, failed to see and hear a good deal
of the ceremony, was decidedly impressed at this point. "The acclamation when the crown was
put on her head was very animating; and in the midst of it, in an instant of time, the Peeresses
were all coroneted--all but the fair creature already described." The writer refers to an earlier
paragraph in which she had detailed a small catastrophe that broke in upon the harmonious perfection
of the scene. "One beautiful creature, with transcendent complexion and form, and coils upon
coils of light hair, was terribly embarrassed about her coronet; she had apparently forgotten
that her hair must be disposed with a view to it, and the large braids at the back would in
no way permit the coronet to keep on. She and her neighbours tugged vehemently at her braids,
and at last the thing was done after a manner, but so as to spoil the wonderful effect of the
self-coroneting of the Peeresses."

To see "the Enthronement," the energetic Norwich woman stood on the rail behind her seat, holding
on by another rail. But first "the Bible was presented by the Archbishop of Canterbury to the
Queen, who delivered it again to the Archbishop, and it was replaced on the altar by the Dean
of Westminster.

"The Benediction was delivered by the Archbishop, and the Te Deum sung by the choir. At the
commencement of the Te Deum the Queen went to the chair which she first occupied, supported
by two Bishops; she was then 'enthroned,' or 'lifted,' as the formulary states, into the chair
of homage by the Archbishops, Bishops, and Peers surrounding her Majesty. The Queen delivered
the sceptre with the cross to the Lord of the Manor of Worksop (the Duke of Norfolk), and the
sceptre with the stone to the Duke of Richmond, to hold during the performance of the ceremony
of homage. The Archbishop of Canterbury knelt and did homage for himself and other Lords Spiritual,
who all kissed the Queen's hand. The Dukes of Sussex and Cambridge, removing their coronets,
did homage in these words:--

"'I do become your liege man of life and limb, and of earthly worship; and faith and truth
I will bear unto you, to live and die, against all manner of folks, so help me God.'

"They touched the crown on the Queen's head, kissed her left cheek, and then retired. It was
observed that her Majesty's bearing towards her uncles was very kind and affectionate. The
Dukes and other Peers then performed their homage, the senior of each rank pronouncing the
words; as they retired each Peer kissed her Majesty's hand. The Duke of Wellington, Earl Grey,
and Lord Melbourne were loudly cheered as they ascended the steps to the throne. Lord Rolle,
"who was upwards of eighty, stumbled and fell on going up the steps. The Queen immediately
stepped forward and held out her hand to assist him, amidst the loudly expressed admiration
of the entire assembly."

"While the Lords were doing homage, the Earl of Surrey, Treasurer of the Household, threw coronation
medals, in silver, about the choir and lower galleries, which were scrambled for with great
eagerness.

"At the conclusion of the homage the choir sang the anthem, 'This is the day which the Lord
hath made.' The Queen received the two sceptres from the Dukes of Norfolk and Richmond; the
drums beat, the trumpets sounded, and the assembly cried out--'God save Queen Victoria!'" [Footnote:
Annual Register.]

Harriet Martineau, from her elevated perch, says, "Her small dark crown looked pretty, and
her mantle of cloth of gold very regal; she, herself, looked so small as to appear puny." (At
a later stage of the proceedings the same keen critic notes that the enormous train borne by
her ladies made the figure of the Queen look still less than it really was.) "The homage was
as pretty a sight as any: trains of Peers touching her crown, and then kissing her hand. It
was in the midst of that process that poor Lord Rolle's disaster sent a shock through the whole
assemblage. It turned me very sick. The large infirm old man was held up by two Peers, and
had nearly reached the royal footstool when he slipped through the hands of his supporters,
and rolled over and over down the steps, lying at the bottom coiled up in his robes. He was
instantly lifted up, and he tried again and again, amidst shouts of admiration of his valour.
The Queen at length spoke to Lord Melbourne, who stood at her shoulder, and he bowed approval;
on which she rose, leaned forward, and held out her hand to the old man, dispensing with his
touching the crown. He was not hurt, and his self-quizzing on his misadventure was as brave
as his behaviour at the time. A foreigner in London gravely reported to his own countrymen,
what he entirely believed on the word of a wag, that the Lords Rolle held their title on the
condition of performing the feat at every coronation."

Sir David Wilkie, who was present at the coronation, wrote simply, "The Queen looked most interesting,
calm, and unexcited; and as she sat upon the chair with the crown on, the sun shone from one
of the windows bright upon her."

Leslie, another painter who witnessed the scene, remarked, "I was very near the altar, and
the chair on which the Queen was crowned, when she signed the coronation oath. I could see
that she wrote a large, bold hand.... I don't know why, but the first sight of her in her robes
brought tears into my eyes, and it had this effect on many people; she looked almost like a child."

"The Archbishop of Canterbury then went to the altar. The Queen followed him, and giving the
Lord Chamberlain her crown to hold, knelt down at the altar. The Gospel and Epistle of the
Communion service having been read by the Bishops, the Queen made her offering of the chalice
and patina, and a purse of gold, which were laid on the altar. Her Majesty received the sacrament
kneeling on her faldstool by the chair."

Leslie afterwards painted this part of the ceremony for her Majesty. In his picture are several
details which are not given elsewhere. The Peers and Peeresses who had crowned themselves simultaneously
with the coronation of the Queen, removed their crowns when she laid aside hers. Among the
gentlemen of the royal family was the Duc de Nemours.

After receiving the communion, the Queen put on her crown, "and with her sceptres in her hands,
took her seat again upon the throne. The Archbishop of Canterbury proceeded with the Communion
service and pronounced the final blessing. The choir sang the anthem, 'Hallelujah! for the
Lord God omnipotent reigneth.' The Queen then left the throne, and attended by two Bishops
and noblemen bearing the regalia and swords of State, passed into King Edward's chapel, the
organ playing. The Queen delivered the sceptre with the dove to the Archbishop of Canterbury,
who laid it on the altar. She was then disrobed of her imperial robe of State and arrayed in
her royal robe of purple velvet by the Lord Chamberlain. The Archbishop placed the orb in her
left hand. The gold spurs and St. Edward's staff were delivered by the noblemen who bore them
to the Dean of Westminster, who placed them on the altar. The Queen then went to the west door
of the Abbey wearing her crown, the sceptre with the cross being in the right and the orb in
the left hand.... It was about a quarter to four o'clock when the royal procession passed through
the nave, in the same order as before, at the conclusion of the ceremony in the Abbey."

The coronation lasted three hours, and must have been attended with great fatigue of mind and
body to the young girl who bore the burden of the honours. Even the mere spectators, who, to
be sure, had been in their places from dawn of day, the moment the stimulus of excitement was
removed, awoke to their desperate weariness. "I watched her (the Queen) out at the doors,"
said Harriet Martineau, "and then became aware how fearfully fatigued I was. I never remember
anything like it. While waiting in the passages and between the barriers, several ladies sat
or lay down on the ground. I did not like to sink down in dust half a foot deep, to the spoiling
of my dress and the loss of my self-respect, but it was really a terrible waiting till my brothers
appeared at the end of the barrier."

But the day's business was not ended for the great world, high and low. The return of the procession,
though the line was broken, had the special attraction that the Queen wore her crown, and the
Peers and Peeresses their coronets. The Queen's crown was a mass of brilliants, relieved here
and there by a large ruby or emerald, encircling a purple velvet cap. Among the stories told
of the coronation, foremost and favourite of which was the misadventure of poor Lord Rolle,
and the pretty gentle way in which the young Queen did her best to help the sufferer; an incident
was reported which might have had its foundation in the difficulties described by Miss Martineau
as besetting the fair Peeress in the Abbey. It was said that the Queen's crown was too cumbrous,
and disturbed the arrangement of those soft braids of hair, the simple, modest fashion of which
called forth Sir David Wilkie's praise, and that as her Majesty drove along in her State carriage,
she was seen laughingly submitting to the good offices of her beautiful companion seeking with
soft hands to loop up afresh the rebellious locks which had broken loose. Leslie, from whom
we have already quoted, gives an anecdote of the Queen on her coronation-day, which serves
at least to show how deeply the youthfulness of their sovereign was impressed on the public
mind. He had been informed that she was very fond of dogs, and that she possessed a favourite
little spaniel which was always on the look-out for her. She had been away from him longer
than usual on this particular day. When the State coach drove up to the palace on her return,
she heard his bark of joy in the hall. She cried, "There's Dash!" and seemed to forget crown
and sceptre in her girlish eagerness to greet her small friend. [Footnote: In the list of Sir
Edwin Landseer's pictures there is one, the property of the Queen, which was painted in 1838.
It includes "Hector," "Nero," "Dash," and "Lorey" (dogs and parrot).]

In spite of the ordeal her Majesty had undergone, she entertained a party of a hundred to dinner,
and witnessed from the roof of Buckingham Palace the grand display of fireworks in the Green
Park and the general illumination of London. The Duke of Wellington gave a ball at Apsley House,
followed next day by official dinners on the part of the Cabinet ministers. The festivities
lasted for more than a week in the metropolis. Prominent among them was a fancy fair held for
the space of four days in Hyde Park, and visited by the Queen in person. On the 9th of July,
a fine, hot day there was a review in Hyde Park. The Queen appeared soon after eleven in an
open barouche, with her aides-de-camp in full uniform. The Dukes of Cambridge and Wellington,
the Duc de Nemours, Marshal Soult, Prince Esterhazy, Prince Schwartzenburg, Count Stragonoff,
were present amidst a great crowd. The Queen was much cheered. The country's old gallant foe,
Soult, was again hailed with enthusiasm, though there was just a shade of being exultingly
equal to the situation, in the readiness with which, on his having the misfortune to break
a stirrup, a worthy firm of saddlers came forward with a supply of the stirrups which Napoleon
had used in one of his campaigns. And there might have been something significant to the visitor,
in the rapturous greeting which was bestowed on the Iron Duke, round whose erect, impassive
figure the multitude pressed, the nearest men and women defying his horse's hoofs and stretching
up to shake hands with "the Conquering Hero" amidst a thunder of applause.

The rejoicings pervaded every part of the country from John o' Groat's to Land's End, from
the Scilly Isles to Sark. There was merry-making among the English residents in every foreign
place, as far as the great colonies in the still remote continents.

To many simple people the Queen did not seem to reign, hardly to exist, till she had put on
her crown and taken up her sceptre. It was to do the first honour to their youthful liege lady
that June garlands were swung over every village street, bonfires gleamed like carbuncles on
mountain cairns, frightening the hill foxes, or lit up the coast-line and were flung back in
broken reflections from the tossing waves, scaring the very fish in the depths of the sea,
where hardy islanders had kindled the token on some rock of the ocean.

Pen and pencil were soon busy with the great event of the season. Elizabeth Barrett Browning
wrote later:--

  The Minster was alight that day, but not with fire, I ween,
  And long-drawn glitterings swept adown that mighty aisled scene;
  The priests stood stoled in their pomp, the sworded chiefs in theirs,
  And so the collared knights--and so the civil ministers;
  And so the waiting lords and dames--and little pages best
  At holding trains--and legates so, from countries east and west;
  So alien princes, native peers, and high-born ladies bright
  Along whose brows the Queen's new crown'd, flashed coronets to light.
  And so, the people at the gates, with priestly hands on high,
  Which bring the first anointing to all legal majesty;
  And so, the Dead--who lay in rows beneath the Minster floor,
  There verily an awful state maintaining evermore--
  The statesman, with no Burleigh nod, whate'er court tricks may be;
  The courtier, who, for no fair Queen, will rise up to his knee;
  The court-dame, who for no court tire will leave her shroud behind;
  The laureate, who no courtlier rhymes than "dust to dust" can find;
  The kings and queens who having ta'en that vow and worn that crown,
  Descended unto lower thrones and darker, deeper adown;
  "Dieu et mon Droit," what is't to them? what meaning can it have?
  The king of kings, the dust of dust--God's judgment and the grave.
  And when betwixt the quick and dead the young fair Queen had vowed,
  The living shouted, "May she live! Victoria, live!" aloud,
  And as these loyal shouts went up, true spirits prayed between,
  The blessings happy monarchs have, be thine, O Crowned Queen!

In the autumn and winter of 1838 Leslie went down to Windsor to get sittings for his picture
of the coronation. He had been presented to the Queen on her first visit to the Academy after
her accession, as he mentions in one of his pleasant letters to his kindred in America. He
was now to come into nearer contact with royalty. He slept at the Castle Inn, Windsor, and
went up daily to the Castle. If he found her Majesty and any other sitter engaged, he improved
the occasion by copying two of the Queen's fine Dutch pictures, a De Hooghe and a Nicholas
Maas. He wrote his experience to his wife in London, and his sister in America. To the latter
he said, "I came here on the 29th of last month by appointment to have a sitting of the Queen,
and with little expectation of having more than one.... I have been here ever since, with the
exception of a day or two in town (I perform the journey in an hour by the railroad), and the
Queen has sat five times. She is now so far satisfied with the likeness, that she does not
wish me to touch it again. She sat not only for the face, but for as much as is seen of the
figure, and for the hands with the coronation-ring on her finger. Her hands, by-the-bye, are
very pretty, the backs dimpled, and the fingers delicately shaped. She was particular also
in having her hair dressed exactly as she wore it at the ceremony, every time she sat. She
has suggested an alteration in the composition of the picture, and I suppose she thinks it
like the scene, for she asked me where I sat, and said, 'I suppose you made a sketch on the spot.'

"The Duchess of Kent and Lord Melbourne are now sitting to me, and last week I had sittings
of Lord Conyngham and Lady Fanny Cowper [Footnote: Daughter of a beautiful and popular mother,
Lady Palmerston, by her first husband, Earl Cowper.] (a very beautiful girl, and one of the
Queen's train-bearers), who was here for a few days on a visit to her Majesty. Every day lunch
is sent to me, which, as it is always very plentiful and good, I generally make my dinner.
The best of wine is sent in a beautiful little decanter, with a V.R. and the crown engraved
on it, and the table-cloth and napkins have the royal arms and other insignia on them as a pattern.

"I have two very good friends at the Castle--one of the pages, and a little man who lights
the fires. The Queen's pages are not little boys in green, but tall and stout gentlemen from
forty to fifty years of age. My friend (Mr. Batchelor) was a page in the time of George III,
and was then twenty years old; George IV died in his arms, he says, in a room adjoining the
one I am painting in. Mr. Batchelor comes into the room whenever there is nobody there, and
admires the picture to my heart's content. My other friend, the fire-lighter, is extremely
like Peter Powell, only a size larger. He also greatly admires the picture; he confesses he
knows nothing about the robes, and can't say whether they are like or not, but he pronounces
the Queen's likeness excellent." [Footnote: Leslie's Autobiography.]

CHAPTER VI. THE MAIDEN QUEEN.

When the great event of the coronation was over the Queen was left to fulfil the heavy demands
of business and the concluding gaieties of the season. It comes upon us with a little pathetic
shock, to think of one whom we have long known chiefly in the chastened light of the devoted
unflagging worker at her high calling, of our lady of sorrows, as a merry girl--girl-like in
her fondness, in spite of her noble nature and the serious claims she did not neglect, of a
racket of perpetual excitement. We read of her as going everywhere, as the blithest and most
indefatigable dancer in her ball-room, dancing out a pair of slippers before the night was
over; we hear how reluctant she was to leave town, how eager to return to it.

Inevitably the old and dear friends most interested in her welfare were now regarding this
critical period in the Queen's career with anxious eyes. In looking back upon it in after life,
she has frankly and gravely acknowledged its pitfalls; "a worse school for a young girl, or
one more detrimental to all natural feeling and affection, cannot well be imagined, than the
position of a queen at eighteen, without experience, and without a husband to guide and support
her. This the Queen can state from painful experience, and she thanks God that none of her
dear daughters are exposed to such danger."

The King of the Belgians sought to abridge the period of probation by renewing the project
of the worthy marriage to which his niece had been well inclined two years before. But either
from the natural coyness and the strain of perversity which are the privilege and the danger
of girlhood, or simply because, as she has, stated, "the sudden change from the secluded life
at Kensington to the independence of her position as Queen Regnant, at the age of eighteen,
put all ideas of marriage out of her head," the bride in prospect demurred. She declared, with
the unhesitating decision of her age, that she had no thought of marriage for years to come.
She objected, with some show of reason, that both she and Prince Albert were too young, and
that it would be better for him to have a little more time to perfect his English education.

The princely cousin who had won her first girlish affections, and the tender sweetness of love
in the bud, were by no means forgotten. The idea of marriage never crossed the Queen's mind
without his image presenting itself, she has said, and she never thought of herself as wedded
to any other man. But every woman, be she Queen or beggar-maid, craves to exercise one species
of power at one era of her life. It is her prerogative, and though the ruth of love may live
to regret it, and to grudge every passing pang inflicted, half wilfully half unwittingly, on
the true heart, it may be questioned whether love would flourish better, whether it would attain
its perfect stature, without the test of the brief check and combat for mastery.

But if a woman desires to prove her power, a man cannot be expected to welcome the soft tyranny;
the more manly, the more sensitive he is, the more it vexes and wounds him. Here the circumstances
were specially trying, and while we have ample sympathy with the young Queen--standing out
as much in archness as in imperiousness for a prolonged wooing--we have also sympathy to spare
for the young Prince, with manly dignity and a little indignant pain, resisting alike girlish
volatility and womanly despotism, asserting what was only right and reasonable, that he could
not wait much longer for her to make up her mind--great queen and dear cousin though she might
be. It was neither just nor generous that he should be kept hanging on in a condition of mortifying
uncertainty, with the risk of his whole life being spoilt, after it was too late to guard against
it, by a final refusal on her part. That the Queen had in substance made up her mind is proved
by the circumstance that it was by her wish, and in accordance with her written instructions--of
which, however, Prince Albert seems to have been ignorant--that Baron Stockmar, on quitting
England in 1838, joined the Prince, who had just endured the trial of being separated from
his elder brother, with whom he had been brought up in the closest and most brotherly relations,
so that the two had never been a day apart during the whole of their previous lives. Prince
Albert was to travel in Italy, and Baron Stockmar and Sir Francis (then Lieutenant) Seymour
were appointed his travelling companions, visiting with him, during what proved a happy tour,
Rome and Naples.

At home, where Baroness Lehzen retained the care of purely personal matters and played her
part in non-political affairs and non-political correspondence, Lord Melbourne, with his tact
and kindness, discharged the remaining offices of a private secretary. But things did not go
altogether well. Party feeling was stronger than ever. The Queen's household was mainly of
Whig materials, but there were exceptions, and the lady who had borne the train of the Duchess
of Kent at the coronation belonged to a family which had become Tory in politics.

Lady Flora Hastings was a daughter of the Marquis of Hastings and of Flora, Countess of Loudoun,
in her own right. The Countess of Loudoun in her youth chose for her husband Earl Moira, one
of the plainest-looking and most gallant officers in the British army. The parting shortly
after their marriage, in order that he might rejoin his regiment on active service, was the
occasion of the popular Scotch song, by Tannahill, "Bonnie Loudoun's woods and braes." Earl
Moira, created Marquis of Hastings, had a distinguished career as a soldier and statesman,
especially as Governor-General of India. When he was Governor-General of Malta he died far
from Loudoun's woods and braes, and was buried in the little island; but in compliance with
an old promise to his wife, who long survived him, that their dust should rest together, he
directed that after death his right hand should be cut off, enclosed in a casket, and conveyed
to the family vault beneath the church of Loudoun, where the mortal remains of his widow would lie.

Lady Flora Hastings was good, clever and accomplished, dearly loved by her family and friends.
But whether she, nevertheless, possessed capabilities of offending her companions in office
at Court; whether her conduct in any respect rebuked theirs, and provoked dislike, suspicion,
and a desire to find her in the wrong; whether the calamity was sheerly due to that mortal
meanness in human nature, which tempts people not otherwise unworthy to receive the most unlikely
and injurious evil report of their neighbour, on the merest presumptive evidence, the unhappy
sequel remains the same. Lady Flora had been attacked by an illness which caused so great a
change in her personal appearance, as to lend colour to a whispered charge that she had been
secretly guilty of worse than levity of conduct. The cruel whisper once breathed, it certainly
became the duty of every person in authority round a young and maiden Queen to guard her Court
jealously from the faintest suspicion of such a reproach. The fault lay with those who uttered
the shameful charge on slight and, as it proved, totally mistaken inferences.

When the accusation reached the ears of Lady Flora--last of all, no doubt--the brave daughter
of a brave man welcomed such a medical examination as must prove her innocence beyond dispute.
Her name and fame were triumphantly cleared, but the distress and humiliation she had suffered
accelerated the progress of her malady, and she died shortly afterwards, passionately lamented
by her friends. They sought fruitlessly to bring punishment on the accusers, which could not
be done since there was no evidence of deliberate insincerity and malice on the part of the
circulators of the scandal. The blame of the disastrous gossip fell on two of the Whig Ladies
of the Bed-chamber; and just before the sad climax, the other event, which angry Tory eyes
magnified to the dignity of a conspiracy, drew double attention to both catastrophes.

In May, 1839, the Whig Government had been defeated in a crucial measure, and the ministry
under the leadership of Lord Melbourne resigned office. The Queen sent for the Duke of Wellington,
and he recommended that Sir Robert Peel should be called upon to form a new Cabinet. It was
the first time that the Queen had experienced a change of Ministers, and she was naturally
dismayed at the necessity, and reluctant to part with the friend who had lent her such aid
on her accession, whom she trusted implicitly, who in the requirements of his office had been
in daily communication with her for the last two years. In her interview with Sir Robert Peel,
who in his shyness and constraint appeared to have far fewer personal recommendations for a
young Queen's counsellor, she told him with a simple and girlish frankness that she was sorry
to have to part with her late Minister, of whose conduct she entirely approved, but that she
bowed to constitutional usage. [Footnote: Justin Macarthy.] Sir Robert took the impulsive speech
in the straightforward spirit in which it was spoken, while time was to show such a good understanding
and cordial regard established between the Queen and her future servant, as has rarely been
surpassed in the relations of sovereigns and their advisers. But in the meanwhile a contretemps,
which was more than half a blunder, occurred. "The negotiations went on very smoothly as to
the colleagues Peel meant to recommend to her Majesty, until he happened to notice the composition
of the royal household, as regarded the ladies most closely in attendance on the Queen. For
example, he found that the wife of Lord Normanby and the sister of Lord Morpeth were the two
ladies in closest attendance on her Majesty. Now it has to be borne in mind--it was proclaimed
again and again during the negotiations--that the chief difficulty of the Conservatives would
necessarily be in Ireland, where their policy would be altogether opposed to that of the Whigs.
Lord Normanby had been Lord Lieutenant of Ireland under the Whigs, and Lord Morpeth, whom we
can all remember as the amiable and accomplished Lord Carlisle of later time, Irish Secretary.
It certainly would not be satisfactory for Peel to try to work a new Irish policy, whilst the
closest household companions of the Queen were the wife and sister of the displaced statesmen,
who directly represented the policy he had to supersede. Had this point of view been made clear
to the sovereign at first, it is hardly possible that any serious difficulty could have arisen.
The Queen must have seen the obvious reasonableness of Peel's request, nor is it to be supposed
that the two ladies in question could have desired to hold their places under such circumstances.
But unluckily some misunderstanding took place at the very beginning of the conversations on
this point. Peel only desired to press for the retirement of the ladies holding the higher
offices, [Footnote: This has been the rule in subsequent changes of Ministry.] he did not intend
to ask for any change affecting a place lower in official rank than that of Lady of the Bed-chamber.
But somehow or other he conveyed to the mind of the Queen a different idea. She thought he
meant to insist as a matter of principle upon the removal of all her familiar attendants and
household associates. Under this impression she consulted Lord John Russell, who advised her
on what he understood to be the facts. On his advice the Queen stated in reply, that she could
not "consent to a course which she conceives to be contrary to usage, and is repugnant to her
feelings." Sir Robert Peel held firm to his stipulation, and the chance of his then forming
a Ministry was at an end. Lord Melbourne and his colleagues had to be recalled, and at a Cabinet
meeting they adopted a minute declaring it "reasonable, that the great offices of the Court,
and situations in the household held by members of Parliament, should be included in the political
arrangements made on a change in the Administration; but they are not of opinion that a similar
principle should be applied or extended to the offices held by ladies in her Majesty's household."

As an instance of the garbled impression received, and the unhesitating exultation manifested
by some of the Whig leaders, we quote from Lord Campbell: "House of Commons, Friday, May 10,
1839. What do you think? Peel has quarrelled with the Queen, and for the present we are all
in again. He insisted on her removing all her ladies, which she peremptorily refused. Peel
sent his final answer yesterday evening, which she received at dinner, saying that on consulting
his colleagues they could not yield, and that his commission was at an end. She then sent for
Melbourne, who had not seen her since his resignation. At eleven a meeting of the old Cabinet
was called. To-day Melbourne has been with her, and, Bear Ellis says, agreed to go on with
the government. Reports differ as to the exact conditions. Our people say that she was willing
to give up the wives of Peers; Sir George Clerk asserts she insisted on keeping all, inter
alias the Marchioness of Normanby. There never was such excitement in London. I came with hundreds
of others to the House of Lords, which met to-day, in the expectation that something would
be said, but all passing off in silence." [Footnote: The explanation was made later.]

"Brooks's, Saturday, May 11, 1839. The Cabinet is still sitting, and we know nothing more to-day....
I was several hours at the Queen's ball last night, a scene never to be forgotten. The Queen
was in great spirits, and danced with more than usual gaiety. She received Peel with great
civility; but after dancing with the Russian Bear, took for her partner Lady Normanby's son.
The Tories looked inconceivably foolish--such whimsical groups."

Calm onlookers, including Stockmar, condemned Lord Melbourne for the position, in which he
had allowed the young Queen to be placed, and considered that he had brought discredit on his
Government by the circumstances in which he and his colleagues had resumed office. The melancholy
death of Lady Flora Hastings following on this overthrow of the ordinary arrangements, intensified
the wrath of the Tories, and helped to arouse a sense of general dissatisfaction and doubt.

In the month of July, 1839, an Act of Parliament was passed which was of great consequence
to the mass of the people. In 1837 Sir Rowland Hill published his post-office reform pamphlet,
and in 1839 the penny-post scheme was embodied in an Act of Parliament.

What stories clustered round the early miniature "heads" of her Majesty in the little dull
red stamp! These myths ranged from the panic that the adhesive gum caused cancer in the tongue,
to the romance that a desperate young lady was collecting a huge supply of used stamps for
the purpose of papering a room of untold dimensions. This feat was the single stipulation on
the part of a tyrannical parent, on compliance with which the hapless maiden would be allowed
to marry her faithful lover.

CHAPTER VII. THE BETROTHAL.

The Queen's remaining unmarried was becoming the source of innumerable disturbing rumours and
private intrigues for the bestowal of her hand. To show the extent to which the public discussed
the question in every light, a serious publication like the Annual Register found space in
its pages for a ponderous joke on the subject which was employing all tongues. Its chronicle
professes to report an interview between her Majesty the Queen and Lord Melbourne, in which
the Premier gravely represents to his sovereign the advisability of her marriage, and ventures
to press her to say whether there is any man for whom she might entertain a preference. Her
Majesty condescends to acknowledge there is one man for whom she could conceive a regard. His
name is "Arthur, Duke of Wellington."

Altogether, King Leopold was warranted in renewing his efforts to accomplish the union which
would best secure the happiness of his niece and the welfare of a kingdom. He adopted a simple,
and at the same time, a masterly line of policy. He sent the Prince, whose majority had been
celebrated along with his brother's a few months before, over again to England in the autumn
of 1839; Prince Ernest of Saxe-Coburg went once more with Prince Albert, in order to show that
this was not a bridegroom come to plead his suit in person; this was a mere cousinly visit
of which nothing need come. Indeed, the good king rather overdid his caution, for it seems
he led the Prince to believe that the earlier tacit understanding between him and his cousin
had come to an end, so that Prince Albert arrived more resolved to relinquish his claims than
to urge his rights. In his honest pride there was hardly room for the thought of binding more
closely and indissolubly the silken cord of love, which had got loosened and warped in the
course of the three years since the pair had parted--a long interval at the age of twenty.
All the same, one of the most notably and deservedly attractive young men of his generation
was to be brought for the second time, without the compulsory strain of an ulterior motive--declared
or unjustifiably implied--into new contact with a royal maiden, whom a qualified judge described
as possessing "a keen and quick apprehension, being straightforward, singularly pure-hearted,
and free from all vanity and pretension." In the estimation of this sagacious well-wisher,
she was fitted beforehand "to do ample justice both to the head and heart of the Prince."

It was at half-past seven on the evening of Thursday, the 10th of October, that the princely
brothers entered again on the scene, no longer young lads under the guidance of their father,
come to make the acquaintance of a girl-princess, their cousin, who though she might be the
heir to a mighty kingdom, was still entirely under the wing of the Duchess, their aunt and
her mother, in the homely old Palace of Kensington. These were two young men in the flower
of their early manhood, who alighted in due form under the gateway of one of the stateliest
of castles that could ever have visited their dreams, and found a young Queen as well as a
kinswoman standing first among her ladies, awaiting them at the top of the grand staircase.
However cordial and affectionate, and like herself, she might be, it had become her part, and
she played it well, to take the initiative, to give directions instead of receiving them, to
command where she had obeyed. It was she, and not the mother she loved and honoured, who was
the mistress of this castle; and it was for her to come forward, welcome her guests, and graciously
conduct them to the Duchess.

King Leopold had furnished the brothers with credentials in the shape of a letter, recommending
them, in studiously moderate terms, as "good, honest creatures," deserving her kindness, "not
pedantic, but really sensible and trustworthy," whom he had told that her great wish was they
should be at ease with her.

Both of these simply summed-up guests were fine young men, tall, manly, intelligent, and accomplished.
Prince Albert was very handsome and winning, as all his contemporaries must remember him, with
a mixture of thought and gentleness in his broad forehead, deep-blue eyes, and sweet smile.

The first incident of the visit was a trifle disconcerting, but not more so than happy, privileged
people may be permitted to surmount with a laughing apology; even to draw additional light-hearted
jests from the misadventure. The baggage of the Princes by some chance was not forthcoming;
they could not appear at a Court dinner in their morning dress, but etiquette was relaxed for
the strangers to the extent that later in the evening they joined the circle, which included
Lord Melbourne, Lord Clanricarde, Lord and Lady Granville, Baron Brunnow and Lord Normanby,
as visitors at Windsor at the time. The pleasant old courtier, Lord Melbourne, immediately
told the Queen that he was struck with the resemblance between Prince Albert and herself.

"The way of life at Windsor during the stay of the Princes was much as follows:--the Queen
breakfasting at this time in her own room, they afterwards paid her a visit there; and at two
o'clock had luncheon with her and the Duchess of Kent. In the afternoon they all rode--the
Queen and Duchess and the two Princes, with Lord Melbourne and most of the ladies and gentlemen
in attendance, forming a large cavalcade. There was a great dinner every evening, with a dance
after it, three times a week." [Footnote: "Early Years of the Prince Consort."] Surely an ideal
palace life for the young--born to the Stately conditions, bright with all the freshness of
body and sparkle of spirit, unexhausted, undimmed by years and care. Surely a fair field for
true love to cast off its wilful shackles, and be rid of its half-cherished misunderstandings,
to assert itself master of the situation. And so in five days, while King Leopold was still
writing wary recommendations and temperate praise, the prize which had been deemed lost was
won, and the Queen who had foredoomed herself to years of maidenly toying with happiness and
fruitless waiting, was ready to announce her speedy marriage, with loyal satisfaction and innocent
fearlessness, to her servants in council.

At the time, and for long afterwards, there were many wonderful little stories, doubtless fanciful
enough, but all taking colour from the one charming fact of the royal lovers. How the Queen,
whose place it was to choose, had with maidenly grace made known her worthy choice at one of
these palace "dances," in which she had waltzed with her Prince, and subsided from the liege
lady into the loving woman. She had presented him with her bouquet in a most marked and significant
manner. He had accepted it with the fullest and most becoming sense of the distinction conferred
upon him, and had sought to bestow her token in a manner which should prove his devotion and
gratitude. But his tight-fitting foreign uniform had threatened to baffle his desire, till,
in the exigency of the moment, he took out a pocket-knife (or was it his sword from its sheath?)
and cut a slit in the breast of his coat on the left side, over the heart, where he put the
flowers. Was this at the end of that second day after the brothers' arrival, on which, as the
Prince mentions, in detailing to a friend the turn of the tide, "the most friendly demonstrations
were directed towards me?"

On the 14th of October, the Queen told her fatherly adviser, Lord Melbourne, that she had made
her choice; at which he expressed great satisfaction, and said to her (as her Majesty has stated
in one of the published portions of her Journal), "I think it will be very well received, for
I hear that there is an anxiety now that it should be, and I am very glad of it;" adding, in
quite a paternal tone, "you will be much more comfortable, for a woman cannot stand alone for
any time in whatever position she may be."

In the circumstances, the ordinary role was of necessity strangely reversed, and the ordeal
of the declaration fell to the maiden and not to the young man. But the trial could not have
come to a better pair. Innate good sense and dignity, and single-hearted affection on the one
hand, and manly, delicate-minded tenderness on the other, made all things possible, nay, easy.
An intimation was conveyed to the Prince through an old friend, who was in the suite of the
brothers on this visit to England, Baron Alvensleben, Master of the Horse to the Duke of Coburg,
that the Queen wished to speak to Prince Albert next day. Doubtless, the formality and comparative
length of the invitation had its significant importance to the receiver of the message, and
brought with it a tumult and thrill of anticipation. But he was called on to show that he had
outgrown youthful impetuosity and impatience, and to prove himself worthy of trust and honour
by perfect self-restraint and composure. So far as the world knows, he awaited his lady's will
without a sign of restlessness or disturbance. If blissful dreams drove away sleep from the
pillows on which two young heads rested in Royal Windsor that night, none save the couple needed
to know of it. It was not by any means the first time that queenly and princely heads had courted
oblivion in vain beneath the tower of St. George, and under the banner of England, but never
in more natural, lawful, happy wakefulness.

On the morning of the 15th, behaving himself as if nothing had happened, or was going to happen,
according to the code of Saxon Englishmen, Prince Albert went out early, hunting with his brother,
but came back by noon, and "half an hour afterwards obeyed the Queen's summons to her room,
where he found her alone. After a few minutes' conversation on other subjects, the Queen told
him why she had sent for him."

The Prince wrote afterwards to the oldest of his relations: "The Queen sent for me alone to
her room a few days ago, and declared to me, in a genuine outburst of love and affection, that
I had gained her whole heart, and would make her intensely happy if I would make her the sacrifice
of sharing her life with her, for she said she looked on it as a sacrifice; the only thing
that troubled her was, that she did not think she was worthy of me. The joyous openness of
manner with which she told me this quite enchanted me, and I was quite carried away by it."

"The Prince answered by the warmest demonstration of kindness and affection."

The affair had been settled by love itself in less time than it has taken to tell it.

There is an entry in her Majesty's Journal of this date, which she has, with noble and tender
confidence, in the best feelings of humanity, permitted her people to read.

"How I will strive to make him feel, as little as possible, the great sacrifices he has made!
I told him it was a great sacrifice on his part, but he would not allow it."

This record has been enthusiastically dwelt upon for its thorough womanliness; and so it is
truly womanly, royally womanly. But it seems to us that less weight has been put on the fine
sympathetic intuition of the Queen which enabled her to look beyond herself, beyond mere outward
appearance and worldly advantages, and see the fact of the sacrifice on the part of such a
man as Prince Albert, which he made with all his heart, cheerfully, refusing so much as to
acknowledge it, for her dear sake. For the Queen was wisely right, and the Prince lovingly
wrong. He not only gave back in full measure what he got, but, looking at the contract in the
light of the knowledge which the Queen has granted to us of a rare nature, we recognise that
for such a man--so simple, noble, purely scholarly and artistic; so capable of undying attachment;
so fond of peaceful household charities and the quiet of domestic life; so indifferent to pomp
and show; so wearied and worried in his patience by formality, parade, and the vulgar strife
and noise, glare and blare of the lower, commoner ambitions--it was a sacrifice to forsake
his fatherland, his father's house, the brother whom he loved as his own soul, the plain living
and high thinking, healthful early hours and refined leisure--busy enough in good thoughts
and deeds--of Germany, for the great shackled responsibility which should rest on the Queen's
husband, for the artificial, crowded, high-pressure life of an England which did not know him,
did not understand him, for many a day. If Baron Stockmar was right, that the physical constitution
of the Prince in his youth rendered strain and effort unwelcome, and that he was rather deficient
in interest in the ordinary work of the world, and in the broad questions which concern the
welfare of men and nations, than overendowed with a passion for mastering and controlling them,
then the sacrifice was all the greater.

But he made it, led by what was, in him, an overruling sense of right, and by the sweetest
compelling motive, for highest duty and for her his Queen. Having put his hand to the plough
he never looked back. What his hand found to do, that he did with all his might, and he became
one of the hardest workers of his age. In seeing what he resigned, we also see that the fullness
of his life was rendered complete by the resignation. He was called to do a grand, costly service,
and he did well, at whatever price, to obey the call. Without the sacrifice his life would
have been less honourable as an example, less full, less perfect, and so, in the end, less
satisfying.

When the troth was plighted, the Queen adds, "I then told him to fetch Ernest, who congratulated
us both and seemed very happy. He told me how perfect his brother was."

There were other kind friends to rejoice in the best solution of the problem and settlement
of the vexed question. The good mother and aunt, the Duchess of Kent, rendered as secure as
mortal mother could be of the future contentment and prosperity of her child; the attached
kinsman beyond the Channel; the father of the bridegroom; his female relations; trusty Baron
Stockmar; an early comrade, were all to be told and made happy, and in some cases sorry also,
for the promotion of Prince Albert to be the Queen's husband meant exile from Germany.

The passages given from the Queen's and Prince's letters to King Leopold and Baron Stockmar
are not only very characteristic, the words express what those who loved the writers best would
have most wished them to say. The respective utterances are radiant with delight softened by
the modest, firm resolves, the humble hearty conscientiousness which made the proposed marriage
so auspicious of all it was destined to prove.

The King of the Belgians was still in a state of doubt, writing his earnest but studiously
measured praise of his nephews to the Queen. "I am sure you will like them the more, the longer
you see them. They are young men of merit, and without that puppy-like affectation which is
so often found with young gentlemen of rank; and though remarkably well informed, they are
very free from pedantry.

"Albert is a very agreeable companion. His manners are so quiet and harmonious that one likes
to have him near one's self. I always found him so when I had him with me, and I think his
travels have still improved him. He is full of talent and fun, and draws cleverly."

At last there is a plainer insinuation. "I trust they will enliven your sejour in the old castle,
and may Albert be able to strew roses without thorns on the pathway of life of our good Victoria.
He is well qualified to do so...."

On the very day this letter was written, the Queen was addressing her uncle. "My dearest uncle,
this letter will I am sure give you pleasure, for you have always shown and taken so warm an
interest in all that concerns me. My mind is quite made up, and I told Albert this morning
of it. The warm affection he showed me on learning this, gave me great pleasure. He seems perfection,
and I think I have the prospect of very great happiness before me. I love him more than I can
say, and shall do everything in my power to render this sacrifice (for such is my opinion it
is) as small as I can.... It is absolutely necessary that this determination of mine should
be known to no one but yourself and to Uncle Ernest, until after the meeting of Parliament,
as it would be considered, otherwise, neglectful on my part not to have assembled Parliament
at once to inform them of it.... Lord Melbourne has acted in this business as he has always
done towards me, with the greatest kindness and affection. We also think it better, and Albert
quite approves of it, that we should be married very soon after Parliament meets, about the
beginning of February."

The King's reply from Wiesbaden is like the man, and is pathetic in the depth of its gratification.
"My dearest Victoria, nothing could have given me greater pleasure than your dear letter. I
had, when I learnt your decision, almost the feeling of Old Simeon: 'Now lettest thou thy servant
depart in peace.' Your choice has been for these last years my conviction of what might and
would be best for your happiness; and just because I was convinced of it, and knew how strangely
fate often changes what one tries to bring about as being the best plan one could fix upon--the
maximum of a good arrangement--I feared that it would not happen."

In Prince Albert's letter to Baron Stockmar, written without delay, as he says, "on one of
the happiest days of my life to give you the most welcome news possible," he goes on to declare
that he is often at a loss to believe that such affection should be shown to him. He quotes
as applicable to himself from Schiller's "Song of the Bell," of which the Prince was very fond--

  Das Auge sieht den Himmel offen,
  Es schwimmt das Herz in seligkeit.

The passage from which these lines are taken is the very beautiful one thus rendered in English
by the late Lord Lytton:--

  And, lo! as some sweet vision breaks
  Out from its native morning skies,
  With rosy shame on downcast cheeks,
  The virgin stands before his eyes:
  A nameless longing seizes him!
  From all his wild companions flown;
  Tears, strange till then, his eyes bedim,
  He wanders all alone.
  Blushing he glides where'er she moves,
  Her greeting can transport him;
  To every mead to deck his love,
  The happy wild-flowers court him.
  Sweet hope--and tender longing--ye
  The growth of life's first age of gold,
  When the heart, swelling, seems to see
  The gates of heaven unfold.
  Oh, were it ever green! oh, stay!
  Linger, young Love, Life's blooming may.

In a later letter to Stockmar the Prince writes: "An individuality, a character which shall
win the respect, the love, and the confidence of the Queen and of the nation, must be the groundwork
of my position.... If therefore I prove a 'noble' Prince in the true sense of the word, as
you call upon me to be, wise and prudent conduct will become easier to me, and its results
more rich in blessings;" and to his stepmother he makes the thoughtful comment, "With the exception
of my relation to her (the Queen), my future position will have its dark sides, and the sky
will not always be blue and unclouded. But life has its thorns in every position, and the consciousness
of having used one's powers and endeavours for an object so great as that of promoting the
good of so many will surely be sufficient to support me."

The brothers remained at Windsor for a happy month, [Footnote: Lady Bloomfield describes a
beautiful emerald serpent ring which the Prince gave the Queen when they were engaged.] when
the royal lovers saw much of each other, and as a matter of course often discussed the future,
particularly with reference to the Prince's position in his new country, and what his title
was to be. One can easily fancy how interesting and engrossing such talks would become, especially
when they were enlivened by the bright humour, and controlled by the singular unselfishness,
of the object of so many hopes and plans. It was already blustering wintry weather, but there
was little room to feel the depressing influence of the grey cloudy sky or the chill of the
shrilly whistling wind and driving rain. Prince Ernest had the misfortune to suffer from an
attack of jaundice, but it was a passing evil, sure to be lightened by ample sympathy, and
it did not prevent the friend of the bridegroom from rejoicing greatly at the sound of the
bridegroom's voice.

Perhaps the fact that a form of secrecy had to be kept up till her Majesty should announce
her marriage to the Council only added an additional piquant flavour to the general satisfaction.
But this did not cause the Queen to fail in confidence towards the members of her family, for
she wrote herself to the Queen-dowager and to the rest of her kindred announcing her intended
marriage, and receiving their congratulations.

On the 2nd of November there was a review of the battalion of the Rifle Brigade quartered at
Windsor under Colonel, afterwards Sir George Brown, of Crimean fame, in the Home Park. The
Queen was present, accompanied by Prince Albert, in the green uniform of the Coburg troops.
What a picture, full of joyful content, independent of all accidents of weather, survives of
the scene! "At ten minutes to twelve I set off in my Windsor uniform and cap (already described)
on my old charger 'Leopold,' with my beloved Albert looking so handsome in his uniform on my
right, and Sir John Macdonald, the Adjutant-General, on my left, Colonel Grey and Colonel Wemyss
preceding me, a guard of honour, my other gentlemen, my cousin's gentlemen, Lady Caroline Barrington,
&c., for the ground.

"A horrid day. Cold, dreadfully blowing, and, in addition, raining hard when we had been out
a few minutes. It, however, ceased when we: came to the ground. I rode alone down the ranks,
and then took my place as usual, with dearest Albert on my right and Sir John Macdonald on
my left, and saw the troops march past. They afterwards manoeuvred. The Rifles looked beautiful.
It was piercingly cold, and I had my cape on, which dearest Albert settled comfortably for
me. He was so cold, being 'EN GRANDE TENUE,' with high boots. We cantered home again, and went
in to show ourselves to. poor Ernest, who had seen all from a window."

The Princes left Windsor on the 14th of November, visiting the King of the Belgians on their
way home, so that King Leopold could write to his niece, "I find them looking well, particularly
Albert. It proves that happiness is an excellent remedy to keep people in better health than
any other. He is much attached to you, and modest when speaking of you. He is besides in great
spirits, full of gaiety and fun."

The bridegroom also sent kind words to his aunt and future mother-in-law, as well as tender
words to his cousin and bride. "Dearest aunt, a thousand thanks for your two kind letters just
received. I see from them that you are in close sympathy with your nephew--your son-in-law
soon to be--which gratifies me very, very much.... What you say about my poor little bride
sitting all alone in her room, silent and sad, has touched me to the heart. Oh, that I might
fly to her side to cheer her!"

"For 'the poor little bride' there was no lack of those sweet words, touched with the grateful
humility of a manly love, to receive which was a precious foretaste to her of the happiness
of the years to come." "That I am the object of so much love and devotion often comes over
me as something I can hardly realise," wrote the Prince. "My prevailing feeling is, What am
I that such happiness should be mine? For excess of happiness it is to me to know that I am
so dear to you." Again, in referring to his grandmother's regret at his departure he added,
"Still she hopes, what I am convinced will be the case, that I may find in you, my dear Victoria,
all the happiness I could possibly desire. And so I SHALL, I can truly tell her for her comfort."
And once more he wrote from "dear old Coburg," brimming over with loyal joy, "How often are
my thoughts with you! The hours I was privileged to pass with you in your dear little room
are the radiant points of my life, and I cannot even yet clearly picture to myself that I am
to be indeed so happy as to be always near you, always your protector." Last and most touching
assurance of all, touching as it was solemn, when he mentioned to the Queen that in an hour
he was to take the sacrament in church at Coburg, and went on, "God will not take it amiss,
if in that serious act, even at the altar, I think of you, for I will pray to Him for you and
for your soul's health, and He will not refuse us His blessing."

In the meantime there was much to do in England. On the 20th of November the Queen, with the
Duchess of Kent, left Windsor for Buckingham Palace. On the 23rd, the Council assembled there
in the Bow-room on the ground floor. The ceremony of declaring her proposed marriage was a
mere form, but a very trying form to a young and modest woman called to face alone a gathering
of eighty-three elderly gentlemen, and to make to them the announcement which concerned herself
so nearly. Of the Privy Councillors some, like the Duke of Wellington, had known the Queen
all her life, some had only served her since she came to the throne, but all were accustomed
to discuss very different matters with her. How difficult the task was to the Queen we may
judge from the significant note. The Queen always wore a bracelet with the Prince's picture,
"and it seemed," she wrote in her Journal, "to give me courage at the Council." Her own further
account of the scene is as follows: "Precisely at two I went in. The room was full, but I hardly
knew who was there. Lord Melbourne I saw looking kindly at me with tears in his eyes, but he
was not near me. I then read my short declaration. I felt my hands shook, but I did not make
one mistake. I felt most happy and thankful when it was over. Lord Lansdowne then rose, and
in the name of the Privy Council asked that this most gracious and most welcome communication
might be printed. I then left the room, the whole thing not lasting above two or three minutes.
The Duke of Cambridge came into the small library where I was standing and wished me joy."

The Queen returned to Windsor with the Duchess of Kent the same evening.

On the 16th of January, 1840, the Queen opened Parliament in person, and made a similar statement.
"Since you were last assembled I have declared my intention of allying myself in marriage with
the Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. I humbly implore that the Divine blessing may prosper
this union, and render it conducive to the interests of my people as well as to my own domestic
happiness, and it will be to me a source of the most lively satisfaction to find the resolution
I have taken approved by my Parliament. The constant proofs which I have received of your attachment
to my person and family persuade me that you will enable me to provide for such an establishment
as may appear suitable to the rank of the Prince and the dignity of the Crown."

To see and hear the young Queen, still only in her twenty-first year, when she went to tell
her people of her purpose, multitudes lined the streets and cheered her on her way that wintry
day, and every seat in the House "was filled with the noblest and fairest of the land" ready
to give her quieter but not less heartfelt support. It is no mere courtly compliment to say
that Queen Victoria's marriage afforded the greatest satisfaction to the nation at large. Not
only was it a very desirable measure on political grounds, but it appealed to the far deeper
and wider feelings of humanity. It had that touch of nature which makes the whole world kin.
Sir Robert Peel's words, when he claimed the right of the Opposition to join with the Government
in its felicitations to both sovereign and country, were not required to convince the people
that their Queen was not only making a suitable alliance, but was marrying "for love," according
to the oldest, wisest, best plan. They knew the glad truth as if by instinct, and how heartily
high and low entered into her happiness and wished her joy! It is said there is one spectacle
which, whether the spectators own it or not, hardly ever palls entirely even on the most hardened
and worldly, the most weary and wayworn, the poorest and most wretched--perhaps, least of all
on the last. It is a bridegroom rejoicing to leave his chamber, and a bride blushing in her
sweet bliss. There are after all only three great events in human history which, projected
forward or reflected backward, colour all the rest--birth, marriage, and death. The most sordid
or sullen population will collect in knots, brighten a little, forget hard fate or mortal wrongs
for a moment, in the interest of seeing a wedding company go by. The surliest, the most whining
of the onlookers will spare a little relenting, a happier thought, for "two lunatics," "a couple
of young fools whose eyes will soon be opened," "a pore delooded lad," "a soft silly of a gal;"
who are still so enviable in their brief bright day.

What was it then to know of a pair of royal lovers--a great Queen and her chosen Prince--well
mated! It softened all hearts, it made the old young again, with a renewing breath of late
romance and tenderness. And, oh! how the young, who are old now, gloried in that ideal marriage!
What tales they told of it, what wonderful fancies they had about it! How it knit the hearts
of the Queen and her subjects together more strongly than anything else save common sorrow
could do! for when it comes to that, sorrow is more universal than joy, sinks deeper, and in
this world lasts longer.

Indeed, at this stage, as at every other, it was soon necessary to descend from heaven to earth;
and for the royal couple, as for the meanest of the people, there were difficulties in connection
with the arrangements, troubles that proved both perplexing and vexatious. It may be said here
that the times were not very propitious for asking even the most just and reasonable Parliamentary
grants. The usual recurring sufferings from insufficient harvests and from stagnation of trade
were depressing the mind of the country. Parliament was called on to act on the occasion of
the Queen's marriage, and the House was not only divided into two hostile parties, the hostility
had been envenomed by recent contretemps, notably that which prevented Sir Robert Peel and
the Tories from taking office and kept in the Whig Government. The unpalatable fruits of the
embroilment had to be eaten and digested at the present crisis. Accordingly there were carping
faultfinding, and resistance--even defeat--on every measure concerning the Prince brought before
the Lords and Commons.

The accusation of disloyal retaliation was made against the Tories. On the other hand the Whigs
in power showed such a defiant attitude, in the absence of any attempt to conciliate their
antagonists, even when the welfare of the Government's motions, and the interests and feelings
of the Queen and the Prince demanded the first consideration, that Lord Melbourne's party were
suspected of a crafty determination to let matters take their course for the express purpose
of prejudicing Prince Albert against the Tories, and alienating him from them in the very beginning.

Lord Melbourne at least did not deserve this accusation. Whatever share he had in the injudicious
attitude of the Government, or in the blunders it committed, must be attributed to the sort
of high-handed carelessness which distinguished the man. His singular fairness in the business
is thus recorded by Baron Stockmar. "As I was leaving the Palace, I met Melbourne on the staircase.
He took me aside and used the following remarkable and true words, strongly characteristic
of his great impartiality: 'The Prince will doubtless be very much irritated against the Tories.
But it is not the Tories alone whom the Prince has to thank for the curtailment of his appanage.
It is the Tories, the Radicals, and a good many of our own people.' I pressed his hand in approbation
of his remarkable frankness. I said, 'There's an honest man! I hope you will yourself say that
to the Prince.'" [Footnote: Lord Melbourne and Baron Stockmar were always on excellent terms.
At the same time the English Prime Minister was not without a little jealousy of any suspicion
of his Government being dictated to by King Leopold.]

Umbrage was taken by the Duke of Wellington at no mention being made of Prince Albert's Protestantism
on the notification of the marriage. With regard to the income and position to be secured to
the Prince, the nearest precedent which could be found to guide the discussion was that of
Prince George of Denmark, husband to Queen Anne. It was halting in many respects, such as the
fact that he had married the Princess long before she was Queen, nay, while her succession
to the throne was problematical. Besides, his character and position in the country were only
respectable for their harmlessness, and did not recommend him by way of example of any kind,
either to Queen or people. Statesmen turned rather to the settlement and dignity accorded to
Prince Leopold, when he married Princess Charlotte; but neither was that quite a case in point.
The fittest reference, so far as income was concerned, seemed to be to the private purses allowed
to the Queen Consorts of the reigning sovereigns of England. To the three last Queens--Caroline,
Charlotte, and Adelaide, the sum of fifty thousand pounds a year had been granted. This also
was the annuity settled on Prince Leopold. Therefore fifty thousand was the amount confidently
asked by the Government.

After a good deal of wrangling and angry debate, in which, however, the Queen's name was studiously
respected, she and the Prince had the mortification to learn that the country, by its representatives,
had refused the usual allowance, and voted only thirty thousand a year to the Queen's husband.

The same ill-fortune attended an attempt to introduce into the bill for the naturalisation
of the Prince, before the House of Lords, a clause which should secure his taking precedence
of all save the Queen. The Duke of Sussex opposed the clause, in the interest of the King of
Hanover, and so many jealous objections were urged that it was judged better to let the provision
drop than risk a defeat in the House of Lords similar to that in the House of Commons. The
awkward alternative remained that Prince Albert's position, so far as it had to do with the
Lord Chamberlain and the Heralds' Office, was left undecided and ambiguous. It was only by
the issue of letters patent on the Queen's part, at a later date, that any certainty on this
point could be attained even in England.

The formation of the Prince's household, which one would think might have been left to his
own good feeling and discretion, or at least to the Queen's judgment in acting for him, proved
another bone of contention calling forth many applications and implied claims.

Baron Stockmar came to England in January, to see to this important element in the Prince's
independence and comfort, as well as to the signing of the marriage contract. But in spite
of the able representative, the Prince's written wishes, judicious and liberal-minded as might
have been expected, and the Queen's desire to carry them out, at least one of the offices was
filled up in a manner which caused Prince Albert anxiety and pain. The gentleman who had been
private secretary to Lord Melbourne was appointed private secretary to the Prince, without
regard to the circumstance that the step would appear compromising in Tory eyes--the very result
which Prince Albert had striven to avoid, and that the official would be forced, as it were,
on the Prince's intimacy without such previous acquaintance as might have justified confidence.
It was only the sterling qualities of both Prince and secretary which obviated the natural
consequences of such an ill-judged proceeding, and ended by producing the genuine liking and
honest friendship which ought to have preceded the connection. The grudging, suspicions, selfish
spirit thus manifested on all hands, was liable to wound the Queen in the tenderest point,
and the disappointment came upon her with a shock, since she had been rashly assured by Lord
Melbourne that there would be no difficulty either as regarded income or precedence. The indications
were not encouraging to the stranger thus met on the threshold. But his mission was to disarm
adverse criticism, to shame want of confidence and pettiness of jealousy, to confer benefits
totally irrespective of the spirit in which they might be taken. And even by the irritated
party-men as well as by the body of the people, the Prince was to be well received for the
Queen's sake, with his merits taken for granted, so far as that went, since the heart of the
country was all right, though its Whig and Tory temper might be at fault.

On the 10th of January, 1840, a death instead of a marriage took place in the royal family,
but it was that of an aged member long expatriated. Princess Elizabeth, Landgravine of Hesse
Homburg, died at Frankfort. It was twenty-two years since she had married and quitted England,
shortly before the old Queen's death, a year before the birth of Queen Victoria. The Landgravine
had returned once, a widow of sixty-four, and then had gone back to her adopted country. She
had survived her husband eleven years, and her sister, resident like herself in Germany, the
Princess Royal, Queen of Wurtemberg, twelve years. The Landgravine as Princess Elizabeth showed
artistic talent. She was famous in her middle age for her great embonpoint; as she was also
tall she waxed enormous. Baroness Bunsen, when Miss Waddington, saw Princess Elizabeth, while
she was still unmarried, dressed for a Drawing-room, with five or six yellow feathers towering
above her head, and refers to her huge dimensions then. It was alleged afterwards that it required
a chain of her husband's faithful subjects in Homburg to encompass his consort. She accommodated
herself wonderfully, though she was an elderly woman before she had ever been out of England,
to the curious quaint mixture of State and homeliness in the little German town in which she
was held in much respect and regard. The Landgravine was seventy years of age at the time of
her death. After her widowhood she resided in Hanover, where her brother, King William, gave
her a palace, and then at Frankfort, where she died. Out of her English income of ten thousand
a year, it was said she spared six thousand for the needs of Hesse Homburg. Its castle and
English garden still retain memories of the English princess who made her quiet home there
and loved the place.

The marriage of the Queen was fixed for the 10th of February, and many eager, aspiring young
couples throughout the country elected that it should be their wedding-day, also. They wished
that the gala of their lives should fit in with hers, and that all future "happy returns of
the day" might have a well-known date to go by, and a State celebration to do them honour.

Lord Torrington and Colonel--afterwards General--Grey set out for Gotha to escort the bridegroom
to England. They carried with them the Order of the Garter, with which Prince Albert was invested
by his father, himself a Knight of the Order, amidst much ceremony.

All the world knows that the Order of the Garter is the highest knightly order of England,
dating back to the time of Edward III., and associated by a gay and gallant tradition with
the beautiful Countess of Salisbury. The first Chapter of the Order was held in 1340, when
twenty-five knights, headed by the King, walked in solemn procession to St. George's Chapel,
founded for their use, and for the maintenance of poor knightly brethren to pray for the souls
of the Knights-Companions--hence "the Poor Knights of Windsor." The first Knights-Companions
dedicated their arms to God and St. George, and held a high festival and tournament in commemoration
of the act in presence of Queen Philippa and her ladies. The habit of the knights was always
distinguished by its colour, blue. Various details were added at different times by different
kings. Henry VIII. gave the collar and the greater and lesser medallions of St. George slaying
the dragon. Charles II. introduced the blue riband. It is scarcely necessary to say that the
full dress of the knights is very magnificent. "There are the blue velvet mantle, with its
dignified sweep, the hood of crimson velvet, the heron and ostrich-plumed cap, the gold medallion,
the blazing star, the gold-lettered garter, to all which may be added the accessories that
rank and wealth have it in their power to display; as, for example, the diamonds worn by the
Marquis of Westminster, at a recent installation, on his sword and badge alone were Worth the
price of a small kingdom; or richer still her present Majesty's jewels, that seem to have been
showered by some Eastern fairy over her habit of the Order, among, which the most beautiful
and striking feature is, perhaps, the ruby cross in the centre of the dazzling star of St.
George." [Footnote: Knight's "Old England."]

The whole court of Gotha was assembled to see Prince Albert get the Garter; a hundred and one
guns were fired to commemorate the auspicious occasion. The younger Perthes, under whom the
Prince had studied at Bonn, wrote of the event, "The Grand-ducal papa bound the Garter round
his boy's knee amidst the roar of a hundred and one cannon" (the attaching of the Garter, however,
was done, not by Prince Albert's father, but by the Queen's brother, the Prince of Leiningen,
another Knight of the Order). "The earnestness and gravity with which the Prince has obeyed
this early call to take a European position, give him dignity and standing in spite of his
youth, and increase the charm of his whole aspect."

The investiture was followed by a grand dinner, when the Duke proposed the Queen's health,
which was drunk by all the company standing, accompanied by several distinct flourishes of
trumpets, the band playing "God save the Queen," and the artillery outside firing a royal salute.
Already the Prince had written to the Queen, when the marriage was officially declared at Coburg,
that the day had affected him very much, so many emotions had filled his heart. Her health
had been drunk at dinner "with a tempest of huzzas." The joy of the people had been so great
that they had gone on firing in the streets, with guns and pistols, during the whole night,
so that one might have imagined a battle was going on. This was a repetition of that earlier
festival, only rendered more emphatic and with a touch of pathos added to it by the impending
departure of Prince Albert, to lay hold of his high destiny. The leave-takings were earnest
and prolonged, with many pretty slightly fantastic German ceremonies, and must have been hard
upon a man whose affections were so tender and tenacious. Especially painful was the farewell
to his mother's mother, the Dowager Duchess of Gotha, who had partly reared the princely lad.
She was much attached to him, and naturally saw him go with little hope of their meeting again
in this world.

The Prince was accompanied by his father and brother, with various friends in their train,
who, after the celebration of the marriage, were to return to Germany. But Prince Albert carried
with him--to remain in his near neighbourhood--two old allies, whose familiar faces would be
doubly welcome in a foreign country. The one was his Swiss valet, Cart, a faithful, devoted
servant, "the best of nurses," who, had waited on his master since the latter was a boy of
seven years of age. The other was the beautiful greyhound, Eos, jet black with the exception
of a narrow white streak on the nose and a white foot. Her master had got her as a puppy of
six weeks old, when he was a boy in his fourteenth year, and had trained the loving, graceful
creature in all imaginable canine, sagacity and cleverness. She had been the constant companion
of his youth. She had already come to England with him, on the decisive visit of the previous
autumn, and was known and dear to his royal mistress.

It was severe wintry weather when the great cavalcade, in eight travelling carriages, set out
for England, and took its way across Germany, Belgium, and the north of France, to the coast
The whole journey assumed much of the character of a festive procession. At each halting-place
crowds turned out to do the princes honour. Every court and governing body welcomed them with
demonstrations of respect and rejoicing. But at Aix-la-Chapelle, in a newspaper which he came
across, Prince Albert read the debates and votes in the Houses of Parliament that cut down
the ordinary annuity of the English sovereign's consort, and left unsettled the question of
his position in the country. The first disappointment told in two ways. Young and sensitive--though
he was also resolute and cheerful-minded--he had been a little nervous beforehand about the
reception which might be accorded to him in England; he now received a painful impression that
the marriage was not popular with the people. He had indulged in generous dreams of the assistance
and encouragement which he would be able to bestow on men of letters and artists, when he suddenly
found his resources curtailed to nearly half the amount he had been warranted in counting upon.
However, at Brussels, the next halting-place, in writing to the Queen, and frankly admitting
his mortification at the words and acts of the majority of the members of both English Houses
of Parliament, he could add with perfect sincerity, "All I have time to say is, that while
I possess your love they cannot make me unhappy."

And King Leopold was there with his sensible, calming counsel, while Baron Stockmar had been
careful to have a letter awaiting the Prince, which explained the undercurrent of political,
not personal, motives that had influenced the debates.

In fact, so far from being unpopular, the Prince, who was the Queen's choice, was really the
most acceptable of all her suitors in the eyes of her people. The sole serious objection urged
against him in those days was that of his youth, a fault which was not only daily lessening,
but was speedily forgotten in the conviction of the manly and serious attention to duty on
his part which he quickly inspired.

On the 5th of February the party arrived at Calais. Lord Clarence Paget had been sent over
with the Firebrand to await their arrival, but the usual difficulties of an adverse tide and
an insufficient French harbour presented themselves, and the company had to sail on the morning
of the 6th in one of the ordinary Dover packet-boats, under a strong gale from the south-east,
with a heavy sea, which rendered the horrors of the Channel crossing, at the worst, what only
those who have experienced them can realise.

The Prince, like most natives of inland Germany, had been little inured to sailing, and his
constitution rendered him specially liable to sea-sickness. As a lad of seventeen, facing the
insidious and repulsive foe for the first time, he had expressed his own and his brother's
dread of the unequal encounter. Now he was doomed to feel its ignoble clutch to the last moment.
"The Duke had gone below, and on either side of the cabin staircase lay the two princes in
an almost helpless state."

It was in such unpropitious circumstances that Prince Albert had to rise, pull himself together,
and bow his acknowledgements to the crowds on the pier ready to greet him. Who that has rebelled
against the calm superiority of the comfortable; amused onlookers at the haggard, giddy sufferers
reeling on shore from the disastrous crossing of a stormy ferry, cannot comprehend the ordeal!

The Prince surmounted it gallantly, anticipating the time when, at the call of work or duty,
he was known to rise to any effort, to shake off fatigue and indisposition as if he had been
the most muscular of giants, and to make a brave fight to the last against deadly illness.
He had his reward. The raw inclement day, the disabling, discomfiting malady--which had appeared
in themselves a bad beginning, an inhospitable introduction to his future life--the recent
misgivings he had entertained, were all forgotten in the enthusiastic reception he received
before he put foot on land. A kind heart responds readily to kindness, and the Prince felt,
in spite of parliamentary votes, the people were glad to see him, with an overflowing gladness.

It had been fixed that the Prince should not arrive at Buckingham Palace till the 8th. Accordingly
there was time for the much-needed rest and refreshment, and for a leisurely conclusion of
the long journey. The travellers stayed that night at Dover, the next at Canterbury, the Prince
beginning the long list of fatiguing ceremonials which he was to undergo in the days to come,
by receiving addresses, holding a reception, and showing himself on the balcony, as well as
by the quieter, more congenial interlude of attending afternoon service in Canterbury Cathedral
with his brother. The weather was still bad; pouring rain had set in, but it could not damp
the spirit of the holiday-makers. As for the hero of the holiday, he was chafing, lover-like,
at the formal delay which was all that interposed between him and a blissful reunion. He wrote
to the Queen before starting for Canterbury, "Now I am once more in the same country with you.
What a delightful thought for me. It will be hard for me to have to wait till to-morrow evening.
Still, our long parting has flown by so quickly, and to-morrow's dawn will soon be here....
Our reception has been most satisfactory. There were thousands of people on the quays, and
they saluted pus with loud and uninterrupted cheers.".

From Canterbury Prince Albert sent on his valet, Cart, with the greyhound Eos. "Little Dash,"
if Dash still lived, was to have a formidable rival, and the Queen speaks in her Journal of
the pleasure which the sight of "dear Eos," the evening before the arrival of the Prince, gave
her." [Footnote: Early Years of the Prince Consort.] Words are not wanted to picture the bright
little scene, the light interruption to "affairs of the State," always weighty, often harassing,
the gay reaction, the hearty unceremonious recognition on both sides, the warm welcome to the
gentle avant courier. This was not a great queen, but a gleeful girl at the height of her happiness,
who stroked with white taper hand the sleek black head, looked eagerly into the fond eyes,
perhaps went so far as to hug the humble friend, stretching up fleet shapely paws, wildly wagging
a slender tail, uttering sharp little yelps of delight to greet her. What wealth of cherished
associations, of thrice happy realisation, the mere presence there, once more of "only a dog,"
brought to the mistress of the palace, the lady of the land!

On Saturday, the 8th of the month, Prince Albert proceeded to London, being cordially greeted
along the whole road by multitudes flocking from every town and village to see him and shout
their approval. At half-past four, in the pale light of a February afternoon, the travellers
arrived at Buckingham Palace, "and were received at the hall door by the Queen and the Duchess
of Kent, attended by the whole household," to whom a worthy master had come. The fullness of
satisfaction and perfect joy of the meeting to two in the company are sacred.

An hour after his arrival the oath of naturalisation was administered to the Prince, "and the
day ended with a great State dinner. Sunday was a rest day. Divine service was performed by
the Bishop of London in the Bow-room on the ground floor--the same room in which the Queen
had met her assembled Council in the course of the previous November, and announced to them
her intended marriage. Afterwards the Prince drove out and paid the visits required of him
to the different members of the royal family. In spite of the season and weather, throngs of
Londoners surrounded the Palace, and watched and cheered him as he went and came. That day
the Queen and Prince exchanged their wedding gifts. She gave him the star and badge of the
Garter and the Garter set in diamonds, and he gave her a sapphire and diamond brooch.

CHAPTER VIII. THE MARRIAGE.

The 10th of February rose dark and foggy, with a lowering sky discharging at frequent intervals
heavy showers. But to many a loyal heart far beyond the sound of Bow bells the date brought
a thrill of glad consciousness which was quite independent of the weather. What mattered dreary
skies or stinging sleet! This was the day on which the young Queen was to wed the lover of
her youth, the man of her choice.

The marriage was to take place at noon, not in the evening, like former royal weddings, and
the change was a great boon to the London public. During the busy morning, Prince Albert found
time for a small act, which was nevertheless full of manly reverence for age and weakness,
of mindful, affectionate gratitude for old and tender cares which had often made his childhood
and youth happy. He wrote a few lines to the loving, venerable kinswoman who had performed
the part of second mother to him, who had grieved so sorely over their parting.

"In less than three hours I shall stand before the altar with my dear bride. In these solemn
moments I must once more ask your blessing, which I am well assured I shall receive, and which
will be my safeguard and my future joy. I must end. God help me (or, rather, God be my stay!),
your faithful Grandson." The Prince wrote a similar letter, showing how faithfully he recollected
her on the crowning day of his life, to his good stepmother, the Duchess of Coburg.

Among the innumerable discussions on the merits or demerits of the Prince when he was first
proposed as the husband for the Queen of England, there had not been wanting in a country where
religion is generally granted to be a vital question, and where religious feuds, like other
feuds, rage high, sundry probings as to the Prince's Christianity--what form he held, whether
he might not be a Roman Catholic, whether he were a Christian at all, and might not rather
be an infidel? Seeing that the Prince belonged to a Christian and to one of the most Protestant
royal families in Europe, that he had been regularly trained in Christian and Lutheran doctrines,
and had made a public profession of his belief in the same--a profession which his practice
had in no way contradicted--these suppositions were, to say the least, uncalled for, and not
remarkable for liberality or charity. It is easy to answer them substantially. The Prince,
reserving his Protestant right of private judgment on all points of his belief, was a deeply
religious man, as indicated throughout his career, at every stage, in every event of his life.
It is hardly possible even for an irreligious man to conceive that Prince Albert could have
been what he was without faith and discipline. His biographer has with reason quoted the "God
be my stay!" in the light of the sincerity of the man, in a letter written in the flush of
his joy and the very fruition of his desires, as one of the innumerable proofs that the Prince
lived consciously and constantly under the all-seeing eye of an Almighty Father.

There were two main points from which out-of-door London could gaze its fill on the gala. The
one was St. James's Park, from which the people could see the bride and bridegroom drive from
Buckingham Palace to St. James's, where the marriage was to take place, according to old usage,
and back again to Buckingham Palace for the wedding breakfast; the other was the Green Park,
Constitution Hill, Hyde Park, and Piccadilly, by which most of the guests were to arrive to
the wedding. The last point also commanded the route which the young couple would take to Windsor.

It was said that, never since the allied sovereigns visited London in 1814 had such a concourse
of human beings made the parks alive, as on this wet February morning, when a dismal solitude
was changed to an animated scene, full of life and motion. The Times described the mass of
spectators wedged in at the back of Carlton Terrace and the foot of Constitution Hill, and
the multitude of chairs, tables, benches, even casks, pressed info. The service, and affording
vantage-ground to those who could pay for the accommodation. The dripping trees were also rendered
available, and had their branches so laden with human fruit, that brittle boughs gave way,
while single specimens and small clusters of men and boys came rattling down on the heads and
shoulders of confiding fellow-creatures; but such misadventures were without serious accident,
and simply afforded additional entertainment to the self-invited, light-hearted wedding guests.

Parties of cavalry and infantry taking their places, with "orderlies dashing to and fro," lent
colour and livelier action to the panorama. At the same time the military were not a very prominent
feature in the picture, and the State element was also to some extent wanting. Some state was
inevitable, but after all the marriage of the sovereign was not so much a public ceremonial
as a private event in her life. As early as eight o'clock in the morning the comparatively
limited number of invited guests began to contribute to the satisfaction of the great uninvited
by driving up beneath the triumphal arch, and presenting their pink or white cards for inspection.
A body of Foot Guards marched forwards, followed by a detachment of the Horse Guards Blue,
with their band discoursing wedding music appropriate to the occasion, cheering the hearts
of the cold, soaked crowd, and awaking an enthusiastic response from it. Then appeared various
members of the nobility, including the Duke of Norfolk, coming always to the front as Grand
Marshal, wearing his robe and carrying his staff of office, when the rest of the world were
in comparative undress, as more or less private individuals. But this gentleman summed up in
his own person "all the blood of all the Howards," and recalled his ancestors great and small--the
poet Earl of Surrey, those Norfolks to whom Mary Tudor and Mary Stuart were alike fatal, and
that Dicky or Dickon of Norfolk who lent a humorous strain to the tragic tendency of the race.

The Ministers and Foreign Ambassadors came singly or in groups. The Ministers, with one or
two exceptions, wore the Windsor uniform, blue turned up with an oak-leaf edging in gold. Viscount
Morpeth, Lord John Russell, the Marquis of Normanby, Lord Palmerston, Lord Holland, Lord Melbourne,
were well-known figures. The good-natured Duke of Cambridge arrived with his family and suite
in three royal carriages. He wore the Orders of the Garter, and the Bath, and carried his baton
as Field-Marshal. The Duke of Sussex was in the uniform of Captain-General of the Artillery
Company, and wore the Orders of the Garter, the Bath, and St. Andrew. He had on his black skull-cap
as usual, and drove up in a single carriage. He had opposed the clause relating to Prince Albert's
taking precedence of all, save the Queen, in the Naturalisation Bill. He was to make further
objection to the husband's occupying his natural place by the side of his wife when the Queen
opened and prorogued Parliament, and to the Prince's rights in the Regency Bill. All the same,
by right of birth and years, the Duke of Sussex was to give away his royal niece.

Before eleven o'clock, the Gentlemen and Ladies of the Household were in readiness at Buckingham
Palace. The Ladies started first for St. James's. The Gentlemen of the foreign suites--Prince
Albert's, and his father's, and brother's--in their dark-blue and dark-green uniforms, mustered
in the hall, and dispatched a detachment to receive the Prince on his arrival at the other
palace. At a quarter to twelve notice was sent to Prince Albert in his private apartments,
and he came forth "like a bridegroom," between his royal supporters, traversed the State-rooms,
and descended the grand staircase, preceded by the Chamberlain and Vice-Chamberlain, Comptroller
of the Household, equerries and ushers. He was received with eager clappings of hands and wavings
of handkerchiefs. The Prince was dressed in the uniform of a British Field-Marshal, and wore
only one decoration, that of the Garter, with the collar surmounted by two white rosettes,
and his bride's gifts of the previous day, the George and Star set in diamonds, on his breast,
and the diamond-embroidered Garter round his knee. His pale, handsome face, with its slight
brown moustache, his slender yet manly figure would have become any dress. Indeed, his general
appearance, full of "thoughtful grace and quiet dignity," impressed every honest observer most
favourably. We can imagine Baron Stockmar watching keenly in the background to catch every
furtive glance and remark, permitting himself to rub his hands and exclaim, with sober exultation,
"He is liked!"

Prince Albert's father and brother, his dearest friends hitherto, walked beside him. The Duke
of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, with his fatherly heart swelling high, must have looked like one
of the quaint stately figures out of old German prints in his long, military boots, the same
as those of the Life Guards, and his dark-green uniform turned up with red. He, too, wore the
collar and star of the Garter, and the star of his own Order of Coburg Gotha. On the other
side of the bridegroom walked Prince Ernest. The wedding was next in importance to him to what
it was to his brother, while to the elder playing the secondary part of the couple so long
united in every act of their young lives, the marriage ceremony of his other self, which was
to deal the decisive blow in the cleaving asunder of the old double existence, must have been
full of very mingled feelings of joy and sorrow, pleasure and pain. Prince Ernest was a fine
young man, in whose face, possibly a little stern in its repressed emotion, The Times reporter
imagined he saw more determination than could be found in the milder aspect of Prince Albert,
not guessing how much strength of will and patient steadfastness might be bound up with gentle
courtesy. Prince Ernest was in a gay light-blue and silver uniform, and carried his helmet
in his hand.

When the group came down the stairs, some privileged company, including a few ladies, stationed
behind the Yeoman Guard and about the entrance, clapped their hands and waved their congratulations,
and as Prince Albert entered the carriage which was to take him and his father and brother
to St. James's, he received for the first time all the honours paid to the Queen. Trumpets
sounded, colours were lowered, and arms presented. A squadron of Life Guards attended the party,
but as the carriage was closed its occupants were not generally recognised.

As soon as the Lord Chamberlain had returned from escorting the Prince, six royal carriages,
each with two horses, were drawn up before the entrance to Buckingham Palace, and his Lordship
informed the Queen that all was ready for her. Accordingly, her Majesty left her room leaning
on the arm of Lord Uxbridge, the Lord Chamberlain. She was supported by her mother, the Duchess
of Kent, and followed by a page of honour. The various officers of the Household--the Earl
of Belfast, Vice-Chamberlain; the Earl of Albemarle, Master of the Horse; Lord Torrington,
Comptroller and Treasurer, &c., walked in advance.

The Queen wore a bride's white satin and orange blossoms, a simple wreath of orange blossoms
on her fair hair. Her magnificent veil of Honiton lace did not cover the pale face, but fell
on each side of the bent head. Her ornaments were the diamond brooch which had been the gift
of the bridegroom, diamond earrings and necklace, and the collar and insignia of the Garter.
She looked well in her natural agitation, for, indeed, she was a true woman at such a moment.
She was shy and a little shrinking as became a bride, and her eyes were swollen with recent
tears--an illustration of the wise old Scotch proverb, "A greetin' (weeping) bride's a happy
bride." Here were no haughty indifference, no bold assurance, no thoughtless, heartless gaiety,

  A creature breathing thoughtful breath,
  A traveller 'twixt life and death.

A maiden leaving one stage of her life, with all its past treasures of affection and happiness,
for ever behind her, and going forward, in loving hope and trust, no doubt, yet still in uncertainty
of what the hidden future held in store for her of weal and woe, to meet her wifely destiny.
As she came down into her great hall she was welcomed with fervent acclamations, but for once
she was absorbed in herself, and the usual frank, gracious response was not accorded to the
tribute. Her eyes were fixed on the ground; "a hurried glance round, and a slight inclination
of the head," were all the signs she gave.

The Duchess of Kent, the good mother who had opened her heart to her nephew as to a son, from
the May-day when he came to Kensington, who had every reason to rejoice in the marriage, still
shared faithfully in her daughter's perturbation. However glad the Duchess might be, it was
still a troubled gladness, for she had long experience. She knew that this day closed the morning
glory of a life, brought change, a greater fullness of being, but with the fullness increased
duties and obligations, more to dread, as well as more to hope, a heavier burden, though there
was a true friend to share it. Illusions would vanish, and though reality is better than illusion
to all honest hearts, who would not spare a sigh to the bright dreams of youth--too bright
with a rainbow-hued radiance and a golden mist of grand expectations, dim in their grandeur,
ever to be fulfilled in this work-a-day world? And the Duchess was conscious that the mother
who gives a daughter away, even to the best of sons, resigns the first place in that daughter's
heart, the first right to her time, thoughts, and confidence. Queen Victoria belonged to her
people, but after that great solemn claim she had till now belonged chiefly to her mother.
Little wonder that the kind Duchess looked "disconsolate" in the middle of her content!

The Duchess of Kent and the Duchess of Sutherland drove in the carriage with her Majesty "at
a slow pace," for the royal bride, even on her bridal-day, owed herself to her subjects, while
a strong escort of Household cavalry prevented the pressure of the shouting throng from becoming
overpowering.

On the arrival of the Queen at St. James's Palace she proceeded to her closet behind the Throne-room,
where she remained, attended by her maids of honour and train-bearers, until the Lord Chamberlain
announced that all was ready for the procession to the chapel.

Old St. James's had been the scene of many a royal wedding. Besides that of Queen Mary, daughter
of James II. and Anne Hyde, who was married to William of Orange at eleven o'clock at night
in her bedchamber, Anne and George of Denmark were married, in more ordinary fashion, in the
chapel. Following their example, the daughters of George II. and Queen Caroline--another Anne,
the third English princess who was given to a Prince of Orange, and who was so ready to consent
to the contract that she declared she would have him though he were a baboon, and her sister
Mary, who was united to the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, were both married here; so was their
brother, Frederick, Prince of Wales, to Princess Augusta of Saxe-Coburg. Prince Albert was
the third of the Coburg line who wedded with the royal house of England. Already there were
two strains of Saxe-Coburg blood in the veins of the sovereign of these realms. The last, and
probably the most disastrous, marriage which had been celebrated in St. James's was that of
George Frederick, Prince of Wales, and Caroline of Brunswick.

