Early on Sunday morning, September 10th, we crossed the Ohio river at Louisville, Kentucky,
on a ferry boat, to Jeffersonville, Indiana. This boat was provided with a railroad track extending
from bow to stern, and so arranged that when the boat landed at either bank, the rails laid
along the lower deck of the boat would closely connect with the railroad track on the land.
This ferry transferred our train in sections, and thus obviated any necessity for the men to
leave the cars. The ferrying process did not take long, and we were soon speeding through southern
Indiana. As stated, it was Sunday, and a bright, beautiful autumn day. As I have hereinbefore
mentioned, our train consisted of box cars, (except one coach for the commissioned officers,)
and all the men who could find room had taken, from preference, seats on top of the cars. Much
of southern Indiana is rugged and broken, and in 1865 was wild, heavily timbered, and the most
of the farm houses were of the backwoods class. We soon began to see little groups of the country
people, in farm wagons, or on foot, making their way to Sunday school and church. Women, young
girls, and children predominated, all dressed in their "Sunday-go-to-meeting" clothes. And
how the women and girls cheered us, and waved their handkerchiefs! And didn't we yell! It was
self-evident that we were in "God's Country" once more. These were the first demonstrations
of that kind the old regiment had seen since the girls of Monticello Seminary, in February,
1862, lined the fences by the road side and made similar manifestations of patriotism and good
will.

We arrived at Indianapolis about noon, there got off the cars and went in a body to a Soldiers'
Home close at hand, where we had a fine dinner; thence back to the old train, which thundered
on the rest of the day and that night, arriving at Springfield the following day, the 11th.
Here we marched out to Camp Butler, near the city, and went into camp.

And now another annoying delay occurred, this time being in the matter of our final payment.
What the particular cause was I do not know; probably the paymasters were so busy right then
that they couldn't get around to us. The most of us (that is, of the old, original regiment)
were here within sixty or seventy miles of our homes, and to be compelled to just lie around
and wait here at Camp Butler was rather trying. But the boys were patient, and on the whole
endured the situation with commendable equanimity. "But the day it came at last," and in the
forenoon of September 27th we fell in line by companies, and each company in its turn marched
to the paymaster's tent, near regimental headquarters. The roll of the company would be called
in alphabetical order, and each man, as his name was called, would answer, and step forward
to the paymaster's table. That officer would lay on the table before the man the sum of money
he was entitled to, and with it his certificate of discharge from the army, duly signed by
the proper officials. The closing of the hand of the soldier over that piece of paper was the
final act in the drama that ended his career as a soldier of the Civil War. Now he was a civilian,
free to come and go as he listed. Farewell to the morning drum-beats, taps, roll-calls, drills,
marches, battles, and all the other incidents and events of a soldier's life.

    "The serried ranks, with flags displayed,
      The bugle's thrilling blast,
    The charge, the thund'rous cannonade,
      The din and shout--were past."

The scattering-out process promptly began after we received our pay and discharges. I left
Springfield early the following day, the 28th, on the Chicago, Alton, and St. Louis railroad,
and went to Alton. Here I luckily found a teamster who was in the act of starting with his
wagon and team to Jerseyville, and I rode with him to that place, arriving there about the
middle of the afternoon. I now hunted diligently to find some farm wagon that might be going
to the vicinity of home, but found none. While so engaged, to my surprise and great delight,
I met the old Chaplain, B. B. Hamilton. As heretofore stated, he had resigned during the previous
March and had been at home for some months. His greeting to me was in his old-fashioned style.
"Son of Jeremiah!" he exclaimed, as he extended his hand, "why comest thou down hither? And
with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness?" I promptly informed him, in effect,
that my coming was regular and legitimate, and that the "few sheep" of the old regiment were
forever through and done with a shepherd. Hamilton did not reside in Jerseyville, but had just
arrived there from his home in Greene county, and, like me, was trying to find some farmer's
conveyance to take him about five miles into the country to the home of an old friend. I ascertained
that his route, as far as he went, was the same as mine, so I proposed that we should strike
out on foot. But he didn't entertain the proposition with much enthusiasm. "Son of Jeremiah,"
said he, "you will find that a walk of nine miles" (the distance to my father's) "will be a
great weariness to the flesh on this warm day." But I considered it a mere pleasure walk, and
was determined to go, so he finally concluded to do likewise. I left my valise in the care
of a Jerseyville merchant, and with no baggage except my sword and belt, we proceeded to "hit
the dirt." I took off my coat, slung it over one shoulder, unsnapped my sword, with the scabbard,
from the belt, and shouldered it also. Our walk was a pleasant and most agreeable one, as we
had much to talk about that was interesting to both. When we arrived at the mouth of the lane
that led to the house of the Chaplain's friend, we shook hands and I bade him good-by, but
fully expected to meet him many times later. But our paths in life diverged,--and I never saw
him again.

I arrived at the little village of Otterville about sundown. It was a very small place in 1865.
There was just one store, (which also contained the post-office,) a blacksmith shop, the old
"Stone school house," a church, and perhaps a dozen or so private dwellings. There were no
sidewalks, and I stalked up the middle of the one street the town afforded, with my sword poised
on my shoulder, musket fashion, and feeling happy and proud. I looked eagerly around as I passed
along, hoping to see some old friend. As I went by the store, a man who was seated therein
on the counter leaned forward and looked at me, but said nothing. A little further up the street
a big dog sprang off the porch of a house, ran out to the little gate in front, and standing
on his hind legs with his fore paws on the palings, barked at me loudly and persistently,--but
I attracted no further attention. Many of the regiments that were mustered out soon after the
close of the war received at home gorgeous receptions. They marched under triumphal arches,
decorated with flags and garlands of flowers, while brass bands blared, and thousands of people
cheered, and gave them a most enthusiastic "Welcome Home!" But the poor old 61st Illinois was
among the late arrivals. The discharged soldiers were now numerous and common, and no longer
a novelty. Personally I didn't care, rather really preferred to come back home modestly and
quietly, and without any "fuss and feathers" whatever. Still, I would have felt better to have
met at least one person as I passed through the little village who would have given me a hearty
hand-shake, and said he was glad to see me home, safe from the war. But it's all right, for
many such were met later.

I now had only two miles to go, and was soon at the dear old boyhood home. My folks were expecting
me, so they were not taken by surprise. There was no "scene" when we met, nor any effusive
display, but we all had a feeling of profound contentment and satisfaction which was too deep
to be expressed by mere words.

When I returned home I found that the farm work my father was then engaged in was cutting up
and shocking corn. So, the morning after my arrival, September 29th, I doffed my uniform of
first lieutenant, put on some of father's old clothes, armed myself with a corn knife, and
proceeded to wage war on the standing corn. The feeling I had while engaged in this work was
"sort of queer." It almost seemed, sometimes, as if I had been away only a day or two, and
had just taken up the farm work where I had left off.

Here this story will close.

In conclusion I will say that in civil life people have been good to me. I have been honored
with different positions of trust, importance, and responsibility, and which I have reason
to believe I filled to the satisfaction of the public. I am proud of the fact of having been
deemed worthy to fill those different places. But, while that is so, I will further say, in
absolute sincerity, that to me my humble career as a soldier in the 61st Illinois during the
War for the Union is the record that I prize the highest of all, and is the proudest recollection
of my life.