Daybreak appeared.  The morning mists surrounded us, but they soon cleared off.  I was about
to examine the hull, which formed on deck a kind of horizontal platform, when I felt it gradually
sinking.

"Oh! confound it!" cried Ned Land, kicking the resounding plate. "Open, you inhospitable rascals!"

Happily the sinking movement ceased.  Suddenly a noise, like iron works violently pushed aside,
came from the interior of the boat.  One iron plate was moved, a man appeared, uttered an odd
cry, and disappeared immediately.

Some moments after, eight strong men, with masked faces, appeared noiselessly, and drew us
down into their formidable machine.

CHAPTER VIII

MOBILIS IN MOBILI

This forcible abduction, so roughly carried out, was accomplished with the rapidity of lightning.
I shivered all over.  Whom had we to deal with?  No doubt some new sort of pirates, who explored
the sea in their own way.  Hardly had the narrow panel closed upon me, when I was enveloped
in darkness.  My eyes, dazzled with the outer light, could distinguish nothing.  I felt my
naked feet cling to the rungs of an iron ladder.  Ned Land and Conseil, firmly seized, followed
me.  At the bottom of the ladder, a door opened, and shut after us immediately with a bang.

We were alone.  Where, I could not say, hardly imagine.  All was black, and such a dense black
that, after some minutes, my eyes had not been able to discern even the faintest glimmer.

Meanwhile, Ned Land, furious at these proceedings, gave free vent to his indignation.

"Confound it!" cried he, "here are people who come up to the Scotch for hospitality.  They
only just miss being cannibals.  I should not be surprised at it, but I declare that they shall
not eat me without my protesting."

"Calm yourself, friend Ned, calm yourself," replied Conseil, quietly. "Do not cry out before
you are hurt.  We are not quite done for yet."

"Not quite," sharply replied the Canadian, "but pretty near, at all events.  Things look black.
Happily, my bowie knife I have still, and I can always see well enough to use it.  The first
of these pirates who lays a hand on me----"

"Do not excite yourself, Ned," I said to the harpooner, "and do not compromise us by useless
violence.  Who knows that they will not listen to us?  Let us rather try to find out where we are."

I groped about.  In five steps I came to an iron wall, made of plates bolted together.  Then
turning back I struck against a wooden table, near which were ranged several stools.  The boards
of this prison were concealed under a thick mat, which deadened the noise of the feet.  The
bare walls revealed no trace of window or door.  Conseil, going round the reverse way, met
me, and we went back to the middle of the cabin, which measured about twenty feet by ten. 
As to its height, Ned Land, in spite of his own great height, could not measure it.

Half an hour had already passed without our situation being bettered, when the dense darkness
suddenly gave way to extreme light.  Our prison was suddenly lighted, that is to say, it became
filled with a luminous matter, so strong that I could not bear it at first.  In its whiteness
and intensity I recognised that electric light which played round the submarine boat like a
magnificent phenomenon of phosphorescence.  After shutting my eyes involuntarily, I opened
them, and saw that this luminous agent came from a half globe, unpolished, placed in the roof
of the cabin.

"At last one can see," cried Ned Land, who, knife in hand, stood on the defensive.

"Yes," said I; "but we are still in the dark about ourselves."

"Let master have patience," said the imperturbable Conseil.

The sudden lighting of the cabin enabled me to examine it minutely.  It only contained a table
and five stools.  The invisible door might be hermetically sealed.  No noise was heard.  All
seemed dead in the interior of this boat.  Did it move, did it float on the surface of the
ocean, or did it dive into its depths?  I could not guess.

A noise of bolts was now heard, the door opened, and two men appeared.

One was short, very muscular, broad-shouldered, with robust limbs, strong head, an abundance
of black hair, thick moustache, a quick penetrating look, and the vivacity which characterises
the population of Southern France.

The second stranger merits a more detailed description.  I made out his prevailing qualities
directly:  self-confidence--because his head was well set on his shoulders, and his black eyes
looked around with cold assurance; calmness--for his skin, rather pale, showed his coolness
of blood; energy--evinced by the rapid contraction of his lofty brows; and courage--because
his deep breathing denoted great power of lungs.

Whether this person was thirty-five or fifty years of age, I could not say.  He was tall, had
a large forehead, straight nose, a clearly cut mouth, beautiful teeth, with fine taper hands,
indicative of a highly nervous temperament.  This man was certainly the most admirable specimen
I had ever met.  One particular feature was his eyes, rather far from each other, and which
could take in nearly a quarter of the horizon at once.

This faculty--(I verified it later)--gave him a range of vision far superior to Ned Land's.
When this stranger fixed upon an object, his eyebrows met, his large eyelids closed around
so as to contract the range of his vision, and he looked as if he magnified the objects lessened
by distance, as if he pierced those sheets of water so opaque to our eyes, and as if he read
the very depths of the seas.

The two strangers, with caps made from the fur of the sea otter, and shod with sea boots of
seal's skin, were dressed in clothes of a particular texture, which allowed free movement of
the limbs.  The taller of the two, evidently the chief on board, examined us with great attention,
without saying a word; then, turning to his companion, talked with him in an unknown tongue.
It was a sonorous, harmonious, and flexible dialect, the vowels seeming to admit of very varied
accentuation.

The other replied by a shake of the head, and added two or three perfectly incomprehensible
words.  Then he seemed to question me by a look.

I replied in good French that I did not know his language; but he seemed not to understand
me, and my situation became more embarrassing.

"If master were to tell our story," said Conseil, "perhaps these gentlemen may understand some
words."

I began to tell our adventures, articulating each syllable clearly, and without omitting one
single detail.  I announced our names and rank, introducing in person Professor Aronnax, his
servant Conseil, and master Ned Land, the harpooner.

The man with the soft calm eyes listened to me quietly, even politely, and with extreme attention;
but nothing in his countenance indicated that he had understood my story.  When I finished,
he said not a word.

There remained one resource, to speak English.  Perhaps they would know this almost universal
language.  I knew it--as well as the German language--well enough to read it fluently, but
not to speak it correctly.  But, anyhow, we must make ourselves understood.

"Go on in your turn," I said to the harpooner; "speak your best Anglo-Saxon, and try to do
better than I."

Ned did not beg off, and recommenced our story.

To his great disgust, the harpooner did not seem to have made himself more intelligible than
I had.  Our visitors did not stir.  They evidently understood neither the language of England
nor of France.

Very much embarrassed, after having vainly exhausted our speaking resources, I knew not what
part to take, when Conseil said:

"If master will permit me, I will relate it in German."

But in spite of the elegant terms and good accent of the narrator, the German language had
no success.  At last, nonplussed, I tried to remember my first lessons, and to narrate our
adventures in Latin, but with no better success.  This last attempt being of no avail, the
two strangers exchanged some words in their unknown language, and retired.

The door shut.

"It is an infamous shame," cried Ned Land, who broke out for the twentieth time.  "We speak
to those rogues in French, English, German, and Latin, and not one of them has the politeness
to answer!"

"Calm yourself," I said to the impetuous Ned; "anger will do no good."

"But do you see, Professor," replied our irascible companion, "that we shall absolutely die
of hunger in this iron cage?"

"Bah!" said Conseil, philosophically; "we can hold out some time yet."

"My friends," I said, "we must not despair.  We have been worse off than this.  Do me the favour
to wait a little before forming an opinion upon the commander and crew of this boat."

"My opinion is formed," replied Ned Land, sharply.  "They are rascals."

"Good! and from what country?"

"From the land of rogues!"

"My brave Ned, that country is not clearly indicated on the map of the world; but I admit that
the nationality of the two strangers is hard to determine.  Neither English, French, nor German,
that is quite certain. However, I am inclined to think that the commander and his companion
were born in low latitudes.  There is southern blood in them.  But I cannot decide by their
appearance whether they are Spaniards, Turks, Arabians, or Indians.  As to their language,
it is quite incomprehensible."

"There is the disadvantage of not knowing all languages," said Conseil, "or the disadvantage
of not having one universal language."

As he said these words, the door opened.  A steward entered.  He brought us clothes, coats
and trousers, made of a stuff I did not know. I hastened to dress myself, and my companions
followed my example. During that time, the steward--dumb, perhaps deaf--had arranged the table,
and laid three plates.

"This is something like!" said Conseil.

"Bah!" said the angry harpooner, "what do you suppose they eat here? Tortoise liver, filleted
shark, and beef steaks from seadogs."

"We shall see," said Conseil.

The dishes, of bell metal, were placed on the table, and we took our places.  Undoubtedly we
had to do with civilised people, and, had it not been for the electric light which flooded
us, I could have fancied I was in the dining-room of the Adelphi Hotel at Liverpool, or at
the Grand Hotel in Paris.  I must say, however, that there was neither bread nor wine.  The
water was fresh and clear, but it was water and did not suit Ned Land's taste.  Amongst the
dishes which were brought to us, I recognised several fish delicately dressed; but of some,
although excellent, I could give no opinion, neither could I tell to what kingdom they belonged,
whether animal or vegetable.  As to the dinner-service, it was elegant, and in perfect taste.
Each utensil--spoon, fork, knife, plate--had a letter engraved on it, with a motto above it,
of which this is an exact facsimile:

MOBILIS IN MOBILI N

The letter N was no doubt the initial of the name of the enigmatical person who commanded at
the bottom of the seas.

Ned and Conseil did not reflect much.  They devoured the food, and I did likewise.  I was,
besides, reassured as to our fate; and it seemed evident that our hosts would not let us die
of want.

However, everything has an end, everything passes away, even the hunger of people who have
not eaten for fifteen hours.  Our appetites satisfied, we felt overcome with sleep.

"Faith!  I shall sleep well," said Conseil.

"So shall I," replied Ned Land.

My two companions stretched themselves on the cabin carpet, and were soon sound asleep.  For
my own part, too many thoughts crowded my brain, too many insoluble questions pressed upon
me, too many fancies kept my eyes half open.  Where were we?  What strange power carried us
on?  I felt--or rather fancied I felt--the machine sinking down to the lowest beds of the sea.
Dreadful nightmares beset me; I saw in these mysterious asylums a world of unknown animals,
amongst which this submarine boat seemed to be of the same kind, living, moving, and formidable
as they.  Then my brain grew calmer, my imagination wandered into vague unconsciousness, and
I soon fell into a deep sleep.

CHAPTER IX

NED LAND'S TEMPERS

How long we slept I do not know; but our sleep must have lasted long, for it rested us completely
from our fatigues.  I woke first.  My companions had not moved, and were still stretched in
their corner.

Hardly roused from my somewhat hard couch, I felt my brain freed, my mind clear.  I then began
an attentive examination of our cell. Nothing was changed inside.  The prison was still a prison--the
prisoners, prisoners.  However, the steward, during our sleep, had cleared the table.  I breathed
with difficulty.  The heavy air seemed to oppress my lungs.  Although the cell was large, we
had evidently consumed a great part of the oxygen that it contained.  Indeed, each man consumes,
in one hour, the oxygen contained in more than 176 pints of air, and this air, charged (as
then) with a nearly equal quantity of carbonic acid, becomes unbreathable.

It became necessary to renew the atmosphere of our prison, and no doubt the whole in the submarine
boat.  That gave rise to a question in my mind.  How would the commander of this floating dwelling-place
proceed? Would he obtain air by chemical means, in getting by heat the oxygen contained in
chlorate of potash, and in absorbing carbonic acid by caustic potash?  Or--a more convenient,
economical, and consequently more probable alternative--would he be satisfied to rise and take
breath at the surface of the water, like a whale, and so renew for twenty-four hours the atmospheric
provision?

In fact, I was already obliged to increase my respirations to eke out of this cell the little
oxygen it contained, when suddenly I was refreshed by a current of pure air, and perfumed with
saline emanations.  It was an invigorating sea breeze, charged with iodine.  I opened my mouth
wide, and my lungs saturated themselves with fresh particles.

At the same time I felt the boat rolling.  The iron-plated monster had evidently just risen
to the surface of the ocean to breathe, after the fashion of whales.  I found out from that
the mode of ventilating the boat.

When I had inhaled this air freely, I sought the conduit pipe, which conveyed to us the beneficial
whiff, and I was not long in finding it. Above the door was a ventilator, through which volumes
of fresh air renewed the impoverished atmosphere of the cell.

I was making my observations, when Ned and Conseil awoke almost at the same time, under the
influence of this reviving air.  They rubbed their eyes, stretched themselves, and were on
their feet in an instant.

"Did master sleep well?" asked Conseil, with his usual politeness.

"Very well, my brave boy.  And you, Mr. Land?"

"Soundly, Professor.  But, I don't know if I am right or not, there seems to be a sea breeze!"

A seaman could not be mistaken, and I told the Canadian all that had passed during his sleep.

"Good!" said he.  "That accounts for those roarings we heard, when the supposed narwhal sighted
the Abraham Lincoln."

"Quite so, Master Land; it was taking breath."

"Only, Mr. Aronnax, I have no idea what o'clock it is, unless it is dinner-time."

"Dinner-time! my good fellow?  Say rather breakfast-time, for we certainly have begun another day."

"So," said Conseil, "we have slept twenty-four hours?"

"That is my opinion."

"I will not contradict you," replied Ned Land.  "But, dinner or breakfast, the steward will
be welcome, whichever he brings."

"Master Land, we must conform to the rules on board, and I suppose our appetites are in advance
of the dinner hour."

"That is just like you, friend Conseil," said Ned, impatiently.  "You are never out of temper,
always calm; you would return thanks before grace, and die of hunger rather than complain!"

Time was getting on, and we were fearfully hungry; and this time the steward did not appear.
It was rather too long to leave us, if they really had good intentions towards us.  Ned Land,
tormented by the cravings of hunger, got still more angry; and, notwithstanding his promise,
I dreaded an explosion when he found himself with one of the crew.

For two hours more Ned Land's temper increased; he cried, he shouted, but in vain.  The walls
were deaf.  There was no sound to be heard in the boat; all was still as death.  It did not
move, for I should have felt the trembling motion of the hull under the influence of the screw.
Plunged in the depths of the waters, it belonged no longer to earth: this silence was dreadful.

I felt terrified, Conseil was calm, Ned Land roared.

Just then a noise was heard outside.  Steps sounded on the metal flags. The locks were turned,
the door opened, and the steward appeared.

Before I could rush forward to stop him, the Canadian had thrown him down, and held him by
the throat.  The steward was choking under the grip of his powerful hand.

Conseil was already trying to unclasp the harpooner's hand from his half-suffocated victim,
and I was going to fly to the rescue, when suddenly I was nailed to the spot by hearing these
words in French:

"Be quiet, Master Land; and you, Professor, will you be so good as to listen to me?"

CHAPTER X

THE MAN OF THE SEAS

It was the commander of the vessel who thus spoke.

At these words, Ned Land rose suddenly.  The steward, nearly strangled, tottered out on a sign
from his master.  But such was the power of the commander on board, that not a gesture betrayed
the resentment which this man must have felt towards the Canadian.  Conseil interested in spite
of himself, I stupefied, awaited in silence the result of this scene.

The commander, leaning against the corner of a table with his arms folded, scanned us with
profound attention.  Did he hesitate to speak? Did he regret the words which he had just spoken
in French?  One might almost think so.

After some moments of silence, which not one of us dreamed of breaking, "Gentlemen," said he,
in a calm and penetrating voice, "I speak French, English, German, and Latin equally well.
I could, therefore, have answered you at our first interview, but I wished to know you first,
then to reflect.  The story told by each one, entirely agreeing in the main points, convinced
me of your identity.  I know now that chance has brought before me M. Pierre Aronnax, Professor
of Natural History at the Museum of Paris, entrusted with a scientific mission abroad, Conseil,
his servant, and Ned Land, of Canadian origin, harpooner on board the frigate Abraham Lincoln
of the navy of the United States of America."

I bowed assent.  It was not a question that the commander put to me. Therefore there was no
answer to be made.  This man expressed himself with perfect ease, without any accent.  His
sentences were well turned, his words clear, and his fluency of speech remarkable.  Yet, I
did not recognise in him a fellow-countryman.

He continued the conversation in these terms:

"You have doubtless thought, sir, that I have delayed long in paying you this second visit.
The reason is that, your identity recognised, I wished to weigh maturely what part to act towards
you.  I have hesitated much.  Most annoying circumstances have brought you into the presence
of a man who has broken all the ties of humanity.  You have come to trouble my existence."

"Unintentionally!" said I.

"Unintentionally?" replied the stranger, raising his voice a little. "Was it unintentionally
that the Abraham Lincoln pursued me all over the seas?  Was it unintentionally that you took
passage in this frigate?  Was it unintentionally that your cannon-balls rebounded off the plating
of my vessel?  Was it unintentionally that Mr. Ned Land struck me with his harpoon?"

I detected a restrained irritation in these words.  But to these recriminations I had a very
natural answer to make, and I made it.

"Sir," said I, "no doubt you are ignorant of the discussions which have taken place concerning
you in America and Europe.  You do not know that divers accidents, caused by collisions with
your submarine machine, have excited public feeling in the two continents.  I omit the theories
without number by which it was sought to explain that of which you alone possess the secret.
But you must understand that, in pursuing you over the high seas of the Pacific, the Abraham
Lincoln believed itself to be chasing some powerful sea-monster, of which it was necessary
to rid the ocean at any price."

A half-smile curled the lips of the commander:  then, in a calmer tone:

"M. Aronnax," he replied, "dare you affirm that your frigate would not as soon have pursued
and cannonaded a submarine boat as a monster?"

This question embarrassed me, for certainly Captain Farragut might not have hesitated.  He
might have thought it his duty to destroy a contrivance of this kind, as he would a gigantic
narwhal.

"You understand then, sir," continued the stranger, "that I have the right to treat you as
enemies?"

I answered nothing, purposely.  For what good would it be to discuss such a proposition, when
force could destroy the best arguments?

"I have hesitated some time," continued the commander; "nothing obliged me to show you hospitality.
If I chose to separate myself from you, I should have no interest in seeing you again; I could
place you upon the deck of this vessel which has served you as a refuge, I could sink beneath
the waters, and forget that you had ever existed.  Would not that be my right?"

"It might be the right of a savage," I answered, "but not that of a civilised man."

"Professor," replied the commander, quickly, "I am not what you call a civilised man!  I have
done with society entirely, for reasons which I alone have the right of appreciating.  I do
not, therefore, obey its laws, and I desire you never to allude to them before me again!"

This was said plainly.  A flash of anger and disdain kindled in the eyes of the Unknown, and
I had a glimpse of a terrible past in the life of this man.  Not only had he put himself beyond
the pale of human laws, but he had made himself independent of them, free in the strictest
acceptation of the word, quite beyond their reach!  Who then would dare to pursue him at the
bottom of the sea, when, on its surface, he defied all attempts made against him?

What vessel could resist the shock of his submarine monitor?  What cuirass, however thick,
could withstand the blows of his spur?  No man could demand from him an account of his actions;
God, if he believed in one--his conscience, if he had one--were the sole judges to whom he
was answerable.

These reflections crossed my mind rapidly, whilst the stranger personage was silent, absorbed,
and as if wrapped up in himself.  I regarded him with fear mingled with interest, as, doubtless,
OEdiphus regarded the Sphinx.

After rather a long silence, the commander resumed the conversation.

"I have hesitated," said he, "but I have thought that my interest might be reconciled with
that pity to which every human being has a right. You will remain on board my vessel, since
fate has cast you there.  You will be free; and, in exchange for this liberty, I shall only
impose one single condition.  Your word of honour to submit to it will suffice."

"Speak, sir," I answered.  "I suppose this condition is one which a man of honour may accept?"

"Yes, sir; it is this:  It is possible that certain events, unforeseen, may oblige me to consign
you to your cabins for some hours or some days, as the case may be.  As I desire never to use
violence, I expect from you, more than all the others, a passive obedience.  In thus acting,
I take all the responsibility:  I acquit you entirely, for I make it an impossibility for you
to see what ought not to be seen.  Do you accept this condition?"

Then things took place on board which, to say the least, were singular, and which ought not
to be seen by people who were not placed beyond the pale of social laws.  Amongst the surprises
which the future was preparing for me, this might not be the least.

"We accept," I answered; "only I will ask your permission, sir, to address one question to
you--one only."

"Speak, sir."

"You said that we should be free on board."

"Entirely."

"I ask you, then, what you mean by this liberty?"

"Just the liberty to go, to come, to see, to observe even all that passes here save under rare
circumstances--the liberty, in short, which we enjoy ourselves, my companions and I."

It was evident that we did not understand one another.

"Pardon me, sir," I resumed, "but this liberty is only what every prisoner has of pacing his
prison.  It cannot suffice us."

"It must suffice you, however."

"What! we must renounce for ever seeing our country, our friends, our relations again?"

"Yes, sir.  But to renounce that unendurable worldly yoke which men believe to be liberty is
not perhaps so painful as you think."

"Well," exclaimed Ned Land, "never will I give my word of honour not to try to escape."

"I did not ask you for your word of honour, Master Land," answered the commander, coldly.

"Sir," I replied, beginning to get angry in spite of my self, "you abuse your situation towards
us; it is cruelty."

"No, sir, it is clemency.  You are my prisoners of war.  I keep you, when I could, by a word,
plunge you into the depths of the ocean.  You attacked me.  You came to surprise a secret which
no man in the world must penetrate--the secret of my whole existence.  And you think that I
am going to send you back to that world which must know me no more? Never!  In retaining you,
it is not you whom I guard--it is myself."

These words indicated a resolution taken on the part of the commander, against which no arguments
would prevail.

"So, sir," I rejoined, "you give us simply the choice between life and death?"

"Simply."

"My friends," said I, "to a question thus put, there is nothing to answer.  But no word of
honour binds us to the master of this vessel."

"None, sir," answered the Unknown.

Then, in a gentler tone, he continued:

"Now, permit me to finish what I have to say to you.  I know you, M. Aronnax.  You and your
companions will not, perhaps, have so much to complain of in the chance which has bound you
to my fate.  You will find amongst the books which are my favourite study the work which you
have published on `the depths of the sea.'  I have often read it.  You have carried out your
work as far as terrestrial science permitted you. But you do not know all--you have not seen
all.  Let me tell you then, Professor, that you will not regret the time passed on board my
vessel. You are going to visit the land of marvels."

These words of the commander had a great effect upon me.  I cannot deny it.  My weak point
was touched; and I forgot, for a moment, that the contemplation of these sublime subjects was
not worth the loss of liberty.  Besides, I trusted to the future to decide this grave question.
So I contented myself with saying:

"By what name ought I to address you?"

"Sir," replied the commander, "I am nothing to you but Captain Nemo; and you and your companions
are nothing to me but the passengers of the Nautilus."

Captain Nemo called.  A steward appeared.  The captain gave him his orders in that strange
language which I did not understand.  Then, turning towards the Canadian and Conseil:

"A repast awaits you in your cabin," said he.  "Be so good as to follow this man.

"And now, M. Aronnax, our breakfast is ready.  Permit me to lead the way."

"I am at your service, Captain."

I followed Captain Nemo; and as soon as I had passed through the door, I found myself in a
kind of passage lighted by electricity, similar to the waist of a ship.  After we had proceeded
a dozen yards, a second door opened before me.

I then entered a dining-room, decorated and furnished in severe taste. High oaken sideboards,
inlaid with ebony, stood at the two extremities of the room, and upon their shelves glittered
china, porcelain, and glass of inestimable value.  The plate on the table sparkled in the rays
which the luminous ceiling shed around, while the light was tempered and softened by exquisite
paintings.

In the centre of the room was a table richly laid out.  Captain Nemo indicated the place I
was to occupy.

The breakfast consisted of a certain number of dishes, the contents of which were furnished
by the sea alone; and I was ignorant of the nature and mode of preparation of some of them.
I acknowledged that they were good, but they had a peculiar flavour, which I easily became
accustomed to.  These different aliments appeared to me to be rich in phosphorus, and I thought
they must have a marine origin.

Captain Nemo looked at me.  I asked him no questions, but he guessed my thoughts, and answered
of his own accord the questions which I was burning to address to him.

"The greater part of these dishes are unknown to you," he said to me. "However, you may partake
of them without fear.  They are wholesome and nourishing.  For a long time I have renounced
the food of the earth, and I am never ill now.  My crew, who are healthy, are fed on the same
food."

"So," said I, "all these eatables are the produce of the sea?"

"Yes, Professor, the sea supplies all my wants.  Sometimes I cast my nets in tow, and I draw
them in ready to break.  Sometimes I hunt in the midst of this element, which appears to be
inaccessible to man, and quarry the game which dwells in my submarine forests.  My flocks,
like those of Neptune's old shepherds, graze fearlessly in the immense prairies of the ocean.
I have a vast property there, which I cultivate myself, and which is always sown by the hand
of the Creator of all things."

"I can understand perfectly, sir, that your nets furnish excellent fish for your table; I can
understand also that you hunt aquatic game in your submarine forests; but I cannot understand
at all how a particle of meat, no matter how small, can figure in your bill of fare."

"This, which you believe to be meat, Professor, is nothing else than fillet of turtle.  Here
are also some dolphins' livers, which you take to be ragout of pork.  My cook is a clever fellow,
who excels in dressing these various products of the ocean.  Taste all these dishes. Here is
a preserve of sea-cucumber, which a Malay would declare to be unrivalled in the world; here
is a cream, of which the milk has been furnished by the cetacea, and the sugar by the great
fucus of the North Sea; and, lastly, permit me to offer you some preserve of anemones, which
is equal to that of the most delicious fruits."

I tasted, more from curiosity than as a connoisseur, whilst Captain Nemo enchanted me with
his extraordinary stories.

"You like the sea, Captain?"

"Yes; I love it!  The sea is everything.  It covers seven tenths of the terrestrial globe.
Its breath is pure and healthy.  It is an immense desert, where man is never lonely, for he
feels life stirring on all sides.  The sea is only the embodiment of a supernatural and wonderful
existence.  It is nothing but love and emotion; it is the `Living Infinite,' as one of your
poets has said.  In fact, Professor, Nature manifests herself in it by her three kingdoms--mineral,
vegetable, and animal.  The sea is the vast reservoir of Nature.  The globe began with sea,
so to speak; and who knows if it will not end with it?  In it is supreme tranquillity.  The
sea does not belong to despots.  Upon its surface men can still exercise unjust laws, fight,
tear one another to pieces, and be carried away with terrestrial horrors.  But at thirty feet
below its level, their reign ceases, their influence is quenched, and their power disappears.
Ah! sir, live--live in the bosom of the waters!  There only is independence!  There I recognise
no masters! There I am free!"

Captain Nemo suddenly became silent in the midst of this enthusiasm, by which he was quite
carried away.  For a few moments he paced up and down, much agitated.  Then he became more
calm, regained his accustomed coldness of expression, and turning towards me:

"Now, Professor," said he, "if you wish to go over the Nautilus, I am at your service."

Captain Nemo rose.  I followed him.  A double door, contrived at the back of the dining-room,
opened, and I entered a room equal in dimensions to that which I had just quitted.

It was a library.  High pieces of furniture, of black violet ebony inlaid with brass, supported
upon their wide shelves a great number of books uniformly bound.  They followed the shape of
the room, terminating at the lower part in huge divans, covered with brown leather, which were
curved, to afford the greatest comfort.  Light movable desks, made to slide in and out at will,
allowed one to rest one's book while reading.  In the centre stood an immense table, covered
with pamphlets, amongst which were some newspapers, already of old date.  The electric light
flooded everything; it was shed from four unpolished globes half sunk in the volutes of the
ceiling.  I looked with real admiration at this room, so ingeniously fitted up, and I could
scarcely believe my eyes.

"Captain Nemo," said I to my host, who had just thrown himself on one of the divans, "this
is a library which would do honour to more than one of the continental palaces, and I am absolutely
astounded when I consider that it can follow you to the bottom of the seas."

"Where could one find greater solitude or silence, Professor?" replied Captain Nemo.  "Did
your study in the Museum afford you such perfect quiet?"

"No, sir; and I must confess that it is a very poor one after yours. You must have six or seven
thousand volumes here."

"Twelve thousand, M. Aronnax.  These are the only ties which bind me to the earth.  But I had
done with the world on the day when my Nautilus plunged for the first time beneath the waters.
That day I bought my last volumes, my last pamphlets, my last papers, and from that time I
wish to think that men no longer think or write.  These books, Professor, are at your service
besides, and you can make use of them freely."

I thanked Captain Nemo, and went up to the shelves of the library. Works on science, morals,
and literature abounded in every language; but I did not see one single work on political economy;
that subject appeared to be strictly proscribed.  Strange to say, all these books were irregularly
arranged, in whatever language they were written; and this medley proved that the Captain of
the Nautilus must have read indiscriminately the books which he took up by chance.

"Sir," said I to the Captain, "I thank you for having placed this library at my disposal. 
It contains treasures of science, and I shall profit by them."

"This room is not only a library," said Captain Nemo, "it is also a smoking-room."

"A smoking-room!" I cried.  "Then one may smoke on board?"

"Certainly."

"Then, sir, I am forced to believe that you have kept up a communication with Havannah."

"Not any," answered the Captain.  "Accept this cigar, M. Aronnax; and, though it does not come
from Havannah, you will be pleased with it, if you are a connoisseur."

I took the cigar which was offered me; its shape recalled the London ones, but it seemed to
be made of leaves of gold.  I lighted it at a little brazier, which was supported upon an elegant
bronze stem, and drew the first whiffs with the delight of a lover of smoking who has not smoked
for two days.

"It is excellent, but it is not tobacco."

"No!" answered the Captain, "this tobacco comes neither from Havannah nor from the East.  It
is a kind of sea-weed, rich in nicotine, with which the sea provides me, but somewhat sparingly."

At that moment Captain Nemo opened a door which stood opposite to that by which I had entered
the library, and I passed into an immense drawing-room splendidly lighted.

It was a vast, four-sided room, thirty feet long, eighteen wide, and fifteen high.  A luminous
ceiling, decorated with light arabesques, shed a soft clear light over all the marvels accumulated
in this museum.  For it was in fact a museum, in which an intelligent and prodigal hand had
gathered all the treasures of nature and art, with the artistic confusion which distinguishes
a painter's studio.

Thirty first-rate pictures, uniformly framed, separated by bright drapery, ornamented the walls,
which were hung with tapestry of severe design. I saw works of great value, the greater part
of which I had admired in the special collections of Europe, and in the exhibitions of paintings.
The several schools of the old masters were represented by a Madonna of Raphael, a Virgin of
Leonardo da Vinci, a nymph of Corregio, a woman of Titan, an Adoration of Veronese, an Assumption
of Murillo, a portrait of Holbein, a monk of Velasquez, a martyr of Ribera, a fair of Rubens,
two Flemish landscapes of Teniers, three little "genre" pictures of Gerard Dow, Metsu, and
Paul Potter, two specimens of Gericault and Prudhon, and some sea-pieces of Backhuysen and
Vernet. Amongst the works of modern painters were pictures with the signatures of Delacroix,
Ingres, Decamps, Troyon, Meissonier, Daubigny, etc.; and some admirable statues in marble and
bronze, after the finest antique models, stood upon pedestals in the corners of this magnificent
museum. Amazement, as the Captain of the Nautilus had predicted, had already begun to take
possession of me.

"Professor," said this strange man, "you must excuse the unceremonious way in which I receive
you, and the disorder of this room."

"Sir," I answered, "without seeking to know who you are, I recognise in you an artist."

"An amateur, nothing more, sir.  Formerly I loved to collect these beautiful works created
by the hand of man.  I sought them greedily, and ferreted them out indefatigably, and I have
been able to bring together some objects of great value.  These are my last souvenirs of that
world which is dead to me.  In my eyes, your modern artists are already old; they have two
or three thousand years of existence; I confound them in my own mind.  Masters have no age."

"And these musicians?" said I, pointing out some works of Weber, Rossini, Mozart, Beethoven,
Haydn, Meyerbeer, Herold, Wagner, Auber, Gounod, and a number of others, scattered over a large
model piano-organ which occupied one of the panels of the drawing-room.

"These musicians," replied Captain Nemo, "are the contemporaries of Orpheus; for in the memory
of the dead all chronological differences are effaced; and I am dead, Professor; as much dead
as those of your friends who are sleeping six feet under the earth!"

Captain Nemo was silent, and seemed lost in a profound reverie. I contemplated him with deep
interest, analysing in silence the strange expression of his countenance. Leaning on his elbow
against an angle of a costly mosaic table, he no longer saw me,--he had forgotten my presence.

I did not disturb this reverie, and continued my observation of the curiosities which enriched
this drawing-room.

Under elegant glass cases, fixed by copper rivets, were classed and labelled the most precious
productions of the sea which had ever been presented to the eye of a naturalist.  My delight
as a professor may be conceived.

The division containing the zoophytes presented the most curious specimens of the two groups
of polypi and echinodermes. In the first group, the tubipores, were gorgones arranged like
a fan, soft sponges of Syria, ises of the Moluccas, pennatules, an admirable virgularia of
the Norwegian seas, variegated unbellulairae, alcyonariae, a whole series of madrepores, which
my master Milne Edwards has so cleverly classified, amongst which I remarked some wonderful
flabellinae oculinae of the Island of Bourbon, the "Neptune's car" of the Antilles, superb
varieties of corals--in short, every species of those curious polypi of which entire islands
are formed, which will one day become continents. Of the echinodermes, remarkable for their
coating of spines, asteri, sea-stars, pantacrinae, comatules, asterophons, echini, holothuri,
etc., represented individually a complete collection of this group.

A somewhat nervous conchyliologist would certainly have fainted before other more numerous
cases, in which were classified the specimens of molluscs. It was a collection of inestimable
value, which time fails me to describe minutely. Amongst these specimens I will quote from
memory only the elegant royal hammer-fish of the Indian Ocean, whose regular white spots stood
out brightly on a red and brown ground, an imperial spondyle, bright-coloured, bristling with
spines, a rare specimen in the European museums--(I estimated its value at not less than L1000);
a common hammer-fish of the seas of New Holland, which is only procured with difficulty; exotic
buccardia of Senegal; fragile white bivalve shells, which a breath might shatter like a soap-bubble;
several varieties of the aspirgillum of Java, a kind of calcareous tube, edged with leafy folds,
and much debated by amateurs; a whole series of trochi, some a greenish-yellow, found in the
American seas, others a reddish-brown, natives of Australian waters; others from the Gulf of
Mexico, remarkable for their imbricated shell; stellari found in the Southern Seas; and last,
the rarest of all, the magnificent spur of New Zealand; and every description of delicate and
fragile shells to which science has given appropriate names.

Apart, in separate compartments, were spread out chaplets of pearls of the greatest beauty,
which reflected the electric light in little sparks of fire; pink pearls, torn from the pinna-marina
of the Red Sea; green pearls of the haliotyde iris; yellow, blue and black pearls, the curious
productions of the divers molluscs of every ocean, and certain mussels of the water-courses
of the North; lastly, several specimens of inestimable value which had been gathered from the
rarest pintadines. Some of these pearls were larger than a pigeon's egg, and were worth as
much, and more than that which the traveller Tavernier sold to the Shah of Persia for three
millions, and surpassed the one in the possession of the Imaum of Muscat, which I had believed
to be unrivalled in the world.

Therefore, to estimate the value of this collection was simply impossible.  Captain Nemo must
have expended millions in the acquirement of these various specimens, and I was thinking what
source he could have drawn from, to have been able thus to gratify his fancy for collecting,
when I was interrupted by these words:

"You are examining my shells, Professor?  Unquestionably they must be interesting to a naturalist;
but for me they have a far greater charm, for I have collected them all with my own hand, and
there is not a sea on the face of the globe which has escaped my researches."

"I can understand, Captain, the delight of wandering about in the midst of such riches.  You
are one of those who have collected their treasures themselves.  No museum in Europe possesses
such a collection of the produce of the ocean.  But if I exhaust all my admiration upon it,
I shall have none left for the vessel which carries it.  I do not wish to pry into your secrets:
but I must confess that this Nautilus, with the motive power which is confined in it, the contrivances
which enable it to be worked, the powerful agent which propels it, all excite my curiosity
to the highest pitch.  I see suspended on the walls of this room instruments of whose use I
am ignorant."

"You will find these same instruments in my own room, Professor, where I shall have much pleasure
in explaining their use to you.  But first come and inspect the cabin which is set apart for
your own use.  You must see how you will be accommodated on board the Nautilus."

I followed Captain Nemo who, by one of the doors opening from each panel of the drawing-room,
regained the waist.  He conducted me towards the bow, and there I found, not a cabin, but an
elegant room, with a bed, dressing-table, and several other pieces of excellent furniture.

I could only thank my host.

"Your room adjoins mine," said he, opening a door, "and mine opens into the drawing-room that
we have just quitted."

I entered the Captain's room:  it had a severe, almost a monkish aspect.  A small iron bedstead,
a table, some articles for the toilet; the whole lighted by a skylight.  No comforts, the strictest
necessaries only.

Captain Nemo pointed to a seat.

"Be so good as to sit down," he said.  I seated myself, and he began thus:

CHAPTER XI

ALL BY ELECTRICITY

"Sir," said Captain Nemo, showing me the instruments hanging on the walls of his room, "here
are the contrivances required for the navigation of the Nautilus.  Here, as in the drawing-room,
I have them always under my eyes, and they indicate my position and exact direction in the
middle of the ocean.  Some are known to you, such as the thermometer, which gives the internal
temperature of the Nautilus; the barometer, which indicates the weight of the air and foretells
the changes of the weather; the hygrometer, which marks the dryness of the atmosphere; the
storm-glass, the contents of which, by decomposing, announce the approach of tempests; the
compass, which guides my course; the sextant, which shows the latitude by the altitude of the
sun; chronometers, by which I calculate the longitude; and glasses for day and night, which
I use to examine the points of the horizon, when the Nautilus rises to the surface of the waves."

"These are the usual nautical instruments," I replied, "and I know the use of them.  But these
others, no doubt, answer to the particular requirements of the Nautilus.  This dial with movable
needle is a manometer, is it not?"

"It is actually a manometer.  But by communication with the water, whose external pressure
it indicates, it gives our depth at the same time."

"And these other instruments, the use of which I cannot guess?"

"Here, Professor, I ought to give you some explanations.  Will you be kind enough to listen to me?"

He was silent for a few moments, then he said:

"There is a powerful agent, obedient, rapid, easy, which conforms to every use, and reigns
supreme on board my vessel.  Everything is done by means of it.  It lights, warms it, and is
the soul of my mechanical apparatus.  This agent is electricity."

"Electricity?"  I cried in surprise.

"Yes, sir."

"Nevertheless, Captain, you possess an extreme rapidity of movement, which does not agree well
with the power of electricity.  Until now, its dynamic force has remained under restraint,
and has only been able to produce a small amount of power."

"Professor," said Captain Nemo, "my electricity is not everybody's. You know what sea-water
is composed of.  In a thousand grammes are found 96 1/2 per cent. of water, and about 2 2/3
per cent.  of chloride of sodium; then, in a smaller quantity, chlorides of magnesium and of
potassium, bromide of magnesium, sulphate of magnesia, sulphate and carbonate of lime.  You
see, then, that chloride of sodium forms a large part of it.  So it is this sodium that I extract
from the sea-water, and of which I compose my ingredients.  I owe all to the ocean; it produces
electricity, and electricity gives heat, light, motion, and, in a word, life to the Nautilus."

"But not the air you breathe?"

"Oh!  I could manufacture the air necessary for my consumption, but it is useless, because
I go up to the surface of the water when I please. However, if electricity does not furnish
me with air to breathe, it works at least the powerful pumps that are stored in spacious reservoirs,
and which enable me to prolong at need, and as long as I will, my stay in the depths of the
sea.  It gives a uniform and unintermittent light, which the sun does not.  Now look at this
clock; it is electrical, and goes with a regularity that defies the best chronometers.  I have
divided it into twenty-four hours, like the Italian clocks, because for me there is neither
night nor day, sun nor moon, but only that factitious light that I take with me to the bottom
of the sea.  Look! just now, it is ten o'clock in the morning."

"Exactly."

"Another application of electricity.  This dial hanging in front of us indicates the speed
of the Nautilus.  An electric thread puts it in communication with the screw, and the needle
indicates the real speed. Look! now we are spinning along with a uniform speed of fifteen miles
an hour."

"It is marvelous!  And I see, Captain, you were right to make use of this agent that takes
the place of wind, water, and steam."

"We have not finished, M. Aronnax," said Captain Nemo, rising.  "If you will allow me, we will
examine the stern of the Nautilus."

Really, I knew already the anterior part of this submarine boat, of which this is the exact
division, starting from the ship's head: the dining-room, five yards long, separated from the
library by a water-tight partition; the library, five yards long; the large drawing-room, ten
yards long, separated from the Captain's room by a second water-tight partition; the said room,
five yards in length; mine, two and a half yards; and, lastly a reservoir of air, seven and
a half yards, that extended to the bows.  Total length thirty five yards, or one hundred and
five feet.  The partitions had doors that were shut hermetically by means of india-rubber instruments,
and they ensured the safety of the Nautilus in case of a leak.

I followed Captain Nemo through the waist, and arrived at the centre of the boat.  There was
a sort of well that opened between two partitions. An iron ladder, fastened with an iron hook
to the partition, led to the upper end.  I asked the Captain what the ladder was used for.

"It leads to the small boat," he said.

"What! have you a boat?"  I exclaimed, in surprise.

"Of course; an excellent vessel, light and insubmersible, that serves either as a fishing or
as a pleasure boat."

"But then, when you wish to embark, you are obliged to come to the surface of the water?"

"Not at all.  This boat is attached to the upper part of the hull of the Nautilus, and occupies
a cavity made for it.  It is decked, quite water-tight, and held together by solid bolts. 
This ladder leads to a man-hole made in the hull of the Nautilus, that corresponds with a similar
hole made in the side of the boat.  By this double opening I get into the small vessel.  They
shut the one belonging to the Nautilus; I shut the other by means of screw pressure.  I undo
the bolts, and the little boat goes up to the surface of the sea with prodigious rapidity.
I then open the panel of the bridge, carefully shut till then; I mast it, hoist my sail, take
my oars, and I'm off."

"But how do you get back on board?"

"I do not come back, M. Aronnax; the Nautilus comes to me."

"By your orders?"

"By my orders.  An electric thread connects us.  I telegraph to it, and that is enough."

"Really," I said, astonished at these marvels, "nothing can be more simple."

After having passed by the cage of the staircase that led to the platform, I saw a cabin six
feet long, in which Conseil and Ned Land, enchanted with their repast, were devouring it with
avidity.  Then a door opened into a kitchen nine feet long, situated between the large store-rooms.
There electricity, better than gas itself, did all the cooking.  The streams under the furnaces
gave out to the sponges of platina a heat which was regularly kept up and distributed.  They
also heated a distilling apparatus, which, by evaporation, furnished excellent drinkable water.
Near this kitchen was a bathroom comfortably furnished, with hot and cold water taps.

Next to the kitchen was the berth-room of the vessel, sixteen feet long.  But the door was
shut, and I could not see the management of it, which might have given me an idea of the number
of men employed on board the Nautilus.

At the bottom was a fourth partition that separated this office from the engine-room. A door
opened, and I found myself in the compartment where Captain Nemo--certainly an engineer of
a very high order--had arranged his locomotive machinery.  This engine-room, clearly lighted,
did not measure less than sixty-five feet in length.  It was divided into two parts; the first
contained the materials for producing electricity, and the second the machinery that connected
it with the screw.  I examined it with great interest, in order to understand the machinery
of the Nautilus.

"You see," said the Captain, "I use Bunsen's contrivances, not Ruhmkorff's. Those would not
have been powerful enough.  Bunsen's are fewer in number, but strong and large, which experience
proves to be the best.  The electricity produced passes forward, where it works, by electro-magnets
of great size, on a system of levers and cog-wheels that transmit the movement to the axle
of the screw.  This one, the diameter of which is nineteen feet, and the thread twenty-three
feet, performs about 120 revolutions in a second."

"And you get then?"

"A speed of fifty miles an hour."

"I have seen the Nautilus manoeuvre before the Abraham Lincoln, and I have my own ideas as
to its speed.  But this is not enough.  We must see where we go.  We must be able to direct
it to the right, to the left, above, below.  How do you get to the great depths, where you
find an increasing resistance, which is rated by hundreds of atmospheres? How do you return
to the surface of the ocean?  And how do you maintain yourselves in the requisite medium? 
Am I asking too much?"

"Not at all, Professor," replied the Captain, with some hesitation; "since you may never leave
this submarine boat.  Come into the saloon, it is our usual study, and there you will learn
all you want to know about the Nautilus."

CHAPTER XII

SOME FIGURES

A moment after we were seated on a divan in the saloon smoking.  The Captain showed me a sketch
that gave the plan, section, and elevation of the Nautilus.  Then he began his description
in these words:

"Here, M. Aronnax, are the several dimensions of the boat you are in. It is an elongated cylinder
with conical ends.  It is very like a cigar in shape, a shape already adopted in London in
several constructions of the same sort.  The length of this cylinder, from stem to stern, is
exactly 232 feet, and its maximum breadth is twenty-six feet.  It is not built quite like your
long-voyage steamers, but its lines are sufficiently long, and its curves prolonged enough,
to allow the water to slide off easily, and oppose no obstacle to its passage.  These two dimensions
enable you to obtain by a simple calculation the surface and cubic contents of the Nautilus.
Its area measures 6,032 feet; and its contents about 1,500 cubic yards; that is to say, when
completely immersed it displaces 50,000 feet of water, or weighs 1,500 tons.

"When I made the plans for this submarine vessel, I meant that nine-tenths should be submerged:
consequently it ought only to displace nine-tenths of its bulk, that is to say, only to weigh
that number of tons.  I ought not, therefore, to have exceeded that weight, constructing it
on the aforesaid dimensions.

"The Nautilus is composed of two hulls, one inside, the other outside, joined by T-shaped irons,
which render it very strong.  Indeed, owing to this cellular arrangement it resists like a
block, as if it were solid.  Its sides cannot yield; it coheres spontaneously, and not by the
closeness of its rivets; and its perfect union of the materials enables it to defy the roughest
seas.

"These two hulls are composed of steel plates, whose density is from .7 to .8 that of water.
The first is not less than two inches and a half thick and weighs 394 tons.  The second envelope,
the keel, twenty inches high and ten thick, weighs only sixty-two tons.  The engine, the ballast,
the several accessories and apparatus appendages, the partitions and bulkheads, weigh 961.62
tons.  Do you follow all this?"

"I do."

"Then, when the Nautilus is afloat under these circumstances, one-tenth is out of the water.
Now, if I have made reservoirs of a size equal to this tenth, or capable of holding 150 tons,
and if I fill them with water, the boat, weighing then 1,507 tons, will be completely immersed.
That would happen, Professor.  These reservoirs are in the lower part of the Nautilus.  I turn
on taps and they fill, and the vessel sinks that had just been level with the surface."

"Well, Captain, but now we come to the real difficulty.  I can understand your rising to the
surface; but, diving below the surface, does not your submarine contrivance encounter a pressure,
and consequently undergo an upward thrust of one atmosphere for every thirty feet of water,
just about fifteen pounds per square inch?"

"Just so, sir."

"Then, unless you quite fill the Nautilus, I do not see how you can draw it down to those depths."

"Professor, you must not confound statics with dynamics or you will be exposed to grave errors.
There is very little labour spent in attaining the lower regions of the ocean, for all bodies
have a tendency to sink.  When I wanted to find out the necessary increase of weight required
to sink the Nautilus, I had only to calculate the reduction of volume that sea-water acquires
according to the depth."

"That is evident."

"Now, if water is not absolutely incompressible, it is at least capable of very slight compression.
Indeed, after the most recent calculations this reduction is only .000436 of an atmosphere
for each thirty feet of depth.  If we want to sink 3,000 feet, I should keep account of the
reduction of bulk under a pressure equal to that of a column of water of a thousand feet. 
The calculation is easily verified.  Now, I have supplementary reservoirs capable of holding
a hundred tons.  Therefore I can sink to a considerable depth.  When I wish to rise to the
level of the sea, I only let off the water, and empty all the reservoirs if I want the Nautilus
to emerge from the tenth part of her total capacity."

I had nothing to object to these reasonings.

"I admit your calculations, Captain," I replied; "I should be wrong to dispute them since daily
experience confirms them; but I foresee a real difficulty in the way."

"What, sir?"

"When you are about 1,000 feet deep, the walls of the Nautilus bear a pressure of 100 atmospheres.
If, then, just now you were to empty the supplementary reservoirs, to lighten the vessel, and
to go up to the surface, the pumps must overcome the pressure of 100 atmospheres, which is
1,500 lbs.  per square inch.  From that a power----"

"That electricity alone can give," said the Captain, hastily.  "I repeat, sir, that the dynamic
power of my engines is almost infinite. The pumps of the Nautilus have an enormous power, as
you must have observed when their jets of water burst like a torrent upon the Abraham Lincoln.
Besides, I use subsidiary reservoirs only to attain a mean depth of 750 to 1,000 fathoms, and
that with a view of managing my machines.  Also, when I have a mind to visit the depths of
the ocean five or six mlles below the surface, I make use of slower but not less infallible means."

"What are they, Captain?"

"That involves my telling you how the Nautilus is worked."

"I am impatient to learn."

"To steer this boat to starboard or port, to turn, in a word, following a horizontal plan,
I use an ordinary rudder fixed on the back of the stern-post, and with one wheel and some tackle
to steer by.  But I can also make the Nautilus rise and sink, and sink and rise, by a vertical
movement by means of two inclined planes fastened to its sides, opposite the centre of flotation,
planes that move in every direction, and that are worked by powerful levers from the interior.
If the planes are kept parallel with the boat, it moves horizontally.  If slanted, the Nautilus,
according to this inclination, and under the influence of the screw, either sinks diagonally
or rises diagonally as it suits me.  And even if I wish to rise more quickly to the surface,
I ship the screw, and the pressure of the water causes the Nautilus to rise vertically like
a balloon filled with hydrogen."

"Bravo, Captain!  But how can the steersman follow the route in the middle of the waters?"

"The steersman is placed in a glazed box, that is raised about the hull of the Nautilus, and
furnished with lenses."

"Are these lenses capable of resisting such pressure?"

"Perfectly.  Glass, which breaks at a blow, is, nevertheless, capable of offering considerable
resistance.  During some experiments of fishing by electric light in 1864 in the Northern Seas,
we saw plates less than a third of an inch thick resist a pressure of sixteen atmospheres.
Now, the glass that I use is not less than thirty times thicker."

"Granted.  But, after all, in order to see, the light must exceed the darkness, and in the
midst of the darkness in the water, how can you see?"

"Behind the steersman's cage is placed a powerful electric reflector, the rays from which light
up the sea for half a mile in front."

"Ah! bravo, bravo, Captain!  Now I can account for this phosphorescence in the supposed narwhal
that puzzled us so.  I now ask you if the boarding of the Nautilus and of the Scotia, that
has made such a noise, has been the result of a chance rencontre?"

"Quite accidental, sir.  I was sailing only one fathom below the surface of the water when
the shock came.  It had no bad result."

"None, sir.  But now, about your rencontre with the Abraham Lincoln?"

"Professor, I am sorry for one of the best vessels in the American navy; but they attacked
me, and I was bound to defend myself.  I contented myself, however, with putting the frigate
hors de combat; she will not have any difficulty in getting repaired at the next port."

"Ah, Commander! your Nautilus is certainly a marvellous boat."

"Yes, Professor; and I love it as if it were part of myself.  If danger threatens one of your
vessels on the ocean, the first impression is the feeling of an abyss above and below.  On
the Nautilus men's hearts never fail them.  No defects to be afraid of, for the double shell
is as firm as iron; no rigging to attend to; no sails for the wind to carry away; no boilers
to burst; no fire to fear, for the vessel is made of iron, not of wood; no coal to run short,
for electricity is the only mechanical agent; no collision to fear, for it alone swims in deep
water; no tempest to brave, for when it dives below the water it reaches absolute tranquillity.
There, sir! that is the perfection of vessels!  And if it is true that the engineer has more
confidence in the vessel than the builder, and the builder than the captain himself, you understand
the trust I repose in my Nautilus; for I am at once captain, builder, and engineer."

"But how could you construct this wonderful Nautilus in secret?"

"Each separate portion, M. Aronnax, was brought from different parts of the globe."

"But these parts had to be put together and arranged?"

"Professor, I had set up my workshops upon a desert island in the ocean.  There my workmen,
that is to say, the brave men that I instructed and educated, and myself have put together
our Nautilus. Then, when the work was finished, fire destroyed all trace of our proceedings
on this island, that I could have jumped over if I had liked."

"Then the cost of this vessel is great?"

"M. Aronnax, an iron vessel costs L145 per ton.  Now the Nautilus weighed 1,500. It came therefore
to L67,500, and L80,000 more for fitting it up, and about L200,000, with the works of art and
the collections it contains."

"One last question, Captain Nemo."

"Ask it, Professor."

"You are rich?"

"Immensely rich, sir; and I could, without missing it, pay the national debt of France."

I stared at the singular person who spoke thus.  Was he playing upon my credulity?  The future
would decide that.

CHAPTER XIII

THE BLACK RIVER

The portion of the terrestrial globe which is covered by water is estimated at upwards of eighty
millions of acres.  This fluid mass comprises two billions two hundred and fifty millions of
cubic miles, forming a spherical body of a diameter of sixty leagues, the weight of which would
be three quintillions of tons.  To comprehend the meaning of these figures, it is necessary
to observe that a quintillion is to a billion as a billion is to unity; in other words, there
are as many billions in a quintillion as there are units in a billion.  This mass of fluid
is equal to about the quantity of water which would be discharged by all the rivers of the
earth in forty thousand years.

During the geological epochs the ocean originally prevailed everywhere. Then by degrees, in
the silurian period, the tops of the mountains began to appear, the islands emerged, then disappeared
in partial deluges, reappeared, became settled, formed continents, till at length the earth
became geographically arranged, as we see in the present day. The solid had wrested from the
liquid thirty-seven million six hundred and fifty-seven square miles, equal to twelve billions
nine hundred and sixty millions of acres.

The shape of continents allows us to divide the waters into five great portions:  the Arctic
or Frozen Ocean, the Antarctic, or Frozen Ocean, the Indian, the Atlantic, and the Pacific Oceans.

The Pacific Ocean extends from north to south between the two Polar Circles, and from east
to west between Asia and America, over an extent of 145 degrees of longitude.  It is the quietest
of seas; its currents are broad and slow, it has medium tides, and abundant rain.  Such was
the ocean that my fate destined me first to travel over under these strange conditions.

"Sir," said Captain Nemo, "we will, if you please, take our bearings and fix the starting-point
of this voyage.  It is a quarter to twelve; I will go up again to the surface."

The Captain pressed an electric clock three times.  The pumps began to drive the water from
the tanks; the needle of the manometer marked by a different pressure the ascent of the Nautilus,
then it stopped.

"We have arrived," said the Captain.

I went to the central staircase which opened on to the platform, clambered up the iron steps,
and found myself on the upper part of the Nautilus.

The platform was only three feet out of water.  The front and back of the Nautilus was of that
spindle-shape which caused it justly to be compared to a cigar.  I noticed that its iron plates,
slightly overlaying each other, resembled the shell which clothes the bodies of our large terrestrial
reptiles.  It explained to me how natural it was, in spite of all glasses, that this boat should
have been taken for a marine animal.

Toward the middle of the platform the longboat, half buried in the hull of the vessel, formed
a slight excrescence.  Fore and aft rose two cages of medium height with inclined sides, and
partly closed by thick lenticular glasses; one destined for the steersman who directed the
Nautilus, the other containing a brilliant lantern to give light on the road.

The sea was beautiful, the sky pure.  Scarcely could the long vehicle feel the broad undulations
of the ocean.  A light breeze from the east rippled the surface of the waters.  The horizon,
free from fog, made observation easy.  Nothing was in sight.  Not a quicksand, not an island.
A vast desert.

Captain Nemo, by the help of his sextant, took the altitude of the sun, which ought also to
give the latitude.  He waited for some moments till its disc touched the horizon.  Whilst taking
observations not a muscle moved, the instrument could not have been more motionless in a hand
of marble.

"Twelve o'clock, sir," said he.  "When you like----"

I cast a last look upon the sea, slightly yellowed by the Japanese coast, and descended to
the saloon.

"And now, sir, I leave you to your studies," added the Captain; "our course is E.N.E., our
depth is twenty-six fathoms.  Here are maps on a large scale by which you may follow it.  The
saloon is at your disposal, and, with your permission, I will retire."  Captain Nemo bowed,
and I remained alone, lost in thoughts all bearing on the commander of the Nautilus.

For a whole hour was I deep in these reflections, seeking to pierce this mystery so interesting
to me.  Then my eyes fell upon the vast planisphere spread upon the table, and I placed my
finger on the very spot where the given latitude and longitude crossed.

The sea has its large rivers like the continents.  They are special currents known by their
temperature and their colour.  The most remarkable of these is known by the name of the Gulf
Stream.  Science has decided on the globe the direction of five principal currents: one in
the North Atlantic, a second in the South, a third in the North Pacific, a fourth in the South,
and a fifth in the Southern Indian Ocean.  It is even probable that a sixth current existed
at one time or another in the Northern Indian Ocean, when the Caspian and Aral Seas formed
but one vast sheet of water.

At this point indicated on the planisphere one of these currents was rolling, the Kuro-Scivo
of the Japanese, the Black River, which, leaving the Gulf of Bengal, where it is warmed by
the perpendicular rays of a tropical sun, crosses the Straits of Malacca along the coast of
Asia, turns into the North Pacific to the Aleutian Islands, carrying with it trunks of camphor-trees
and other indigenous productions, and edging the waves of the ocean with the pure indigo of
its warm water. It was this current that the Nautilus was to follow.  I followed it with my
eye; saw it lose itself in the vastness of the Pacific, and felt myself drawn with it, when
Ned Land and Conseil appeared at the door of the saloon.

My two brave companions remained petrified at the sight of the wonders spread before them.

"Where are we, where are we?" exclaimed the Canadian.  "In the museum at Quebec?"

"My friends," I answered, making a sign for them to enter, "you are not in Canada, but on board
the Nautilus, fifty yards below the level of the sea."

"But, M. Aronnax," said Ned Land, "can you tell me how many men there are on board?  Ten, twenty,
fifty, a hundred?"

"I cannot answer you, Mr. Land; it is better to abandon for a time all idea of seizing the
Nautilus or escaping from it.  This ship is a masterpiece of modern industry, and I should
be sorry not to have seen it.  Many people would accept the situation forced upon us, if only
to move amongst such wonders.  So be quiet and let us try and see what passes around us."

"See!" exclaimed the harpooner, "but we can see nothing in this iron prison!  We are walking--we
are sailing--blindly."

Ned Land had scarcely pronounced these words when all was suddenly darkness.  The luminous
ceiling was gone, and so rapidly that my eyes received a painful impression.

We remained mute, not stirring, and not knowing what surprise awaited us, whether agreeable
or disagreeable.  A sliding noise was heard: one would have said that panels were working at
the sides of the Nautilus.

"It is the end of the end!" said Ned Land.

Suddenly light broke at each side of the saloon, through two oblong openings.  The liquid mass
appeared vividly lit up by the electric gleam.  Two crystal plates separated us from the sea.
At first I trembled at the thought that this frail partition might break, but strong bands
of copper bound them, giving an almost infinite power of resistance.

The sea was distinctly visible for a mile all round the Nautilus.  What a spectacle!  What
pen can describe it?  Who could paint the effects of the light through those transparent sheets
of water, and the softness of the successive gradations from the lower to the superior strata
of the ocean?

We know the transparency of the sea and that its clearness is far beyond that of rock-water.
The mineral and organic substances which it holds in suspension heightens its transparency.
In certain parts of the ocean at the Antilles, under seventy-five fathoms of water, can be
seen with surprising clearness a bed of sand.  The penetrating power of the solar rays does
not seem to cease for a depth of one hundred and fifty fathoms.  But in this middle fluid travelled
over by the Nautilus, the electric brightness was produced even in the bosom of the waves.
It was no longer luminous water, but liquid light.

On each side a window opened into this unexplored abyss.  The obscurity of the saloon showed
to advantage the brightness outside, and we looked out as if this pure crystal had been the
glass of an immense aquarium.

"You wished to see, friend Ned; well, you see now."

"Curious! curious!" muttered the Canadian, who, forgetting his ill-temper, seemed to submit
to some irresistible attraction; "and one would come further than this to admire such a sight!"

"Ah!" thought I to myself, "I understand the life of this man; he has made a world apart for
himself, in which he treasures all his greatest wonders."

For two whole hours an aquatic army escorted the Nautilus.  During their games, their bounds,
while rivalling each other in beauty, brightness, and velocity, I distinguished the green labre;
the banded mullet, marked by a double line of black; the round-tailed goby, of a white colour,
with violet spots on the back; the Japanese scombrus, a beautiful mackerel of these seas, with
a blue body and silvery head; the brilliant azurors, whose name alone defies description; some
banded spares, with variegated fins of blue and yellow; the woodcocks of the seas, some specimens
of which attain a yard in length; Japanese salamanders, spider lampreys, serpents six feet
long, with eyes small and lively, and a huge mouth bristling with teeth; with many other species.

Our imagination was kept at its height, interjections followed quickly on each other.  Ned
named the fish, and Conseil classed them.  I was in ecstasies with the vivacity of their movements
and the beauty of their forms.  Never had it been given to me to surprise these animals, alive
and at liberty, in their natural element.  I will not mention all the varieties which passed
before my dazzled eyes, all the collection of the seas of China and Japan.  These fish, more
numerous than the birds of the air, came, attracted, no doubt, by the brilliant focus of the
electric light.

Suddenly there was daylight in the saloon, the iron panels closed again, and the enchanting
vision disappeared.  But for a long time I dreamt on, till my eyes fell on the instruments
hanging on the partition.  The compass still showed the course to be E.N.E., the manometer
indicated a pressure of five atmospheres, equivalent to a depth of twenty five fathoms, and
the electric log gave a speed of fifteen miles an hour.  I expected Captain Nemo, but he did
not appear. The clock marked the hour of five.

Ned Land and Conseil returned to their cabin, and I retired to my chamber.  My dinner was ready.
It was composed of turtle soup made of the most delicate hawks bills, of a surmullet served
with puff paste (the liver of which, prepared by itself, was most delicious), and fillets of
the emperor-holocanthus, the savour of which seemed to me superior even to salmon.

I passed the evening reading, writing, and thinking.  Then sleep overpowered me, and I stretched
myself on my couch of zostera, and slept profoundly, whilst the Nautilus was gliding rapidly
through the current of the Black River.

CHAPTER XIV

A NOTE OF INVITATION

The next day was the 9th of November.  I awoke after a long sleep of twelve hours.  Conseil
came, according to custom, to know "how I passed the night," and to offer his services.  He
had left his friend the Canadian sleeping like a man who had never done anything else all his
life.  I let the worthy fellow chatter as he pleased, without caring to answer him.  I was
preoccupied by the absence of the Captain during our sitting of the day before, and hoping
to see him to-day.

As soon as I was dressed I went into the saloon.  It was deserted.  I plunged into the study
of the shell treasures hidden behind the glasses.

The whole day passed without my being honoured by a visit from Captain Nemo.  The panels of
the saloon did not open.  Perhaps they did not wish us to tire of these beautiful things.

The course of the Nautilus was E.N.E., her speed twelve knots, the depth below the surface
between twenty-five and thirty fathoms.

The next day, 10th of November, the same desertion, the same solitude. I did not see one of
the ship's crew: Ned and Conseil spent the greater part of the day with me.  They were astonished
at the puzzling absence of the Captain.  Was this singular man ill?--had he altered his intentions
with regard to us?

After all, as Conseil said, we enjoyed perfect liberty, we were delicately and abundantly fed.
Our host kept to his terms of the treaty.  We could not complain, and, indeed, the singularity
of our fate reserved such wonderful compensation for us that we had no right to accuse it as yet.

That day I commenced the journal of these adventures which has enabled me to relate them with
more scrupulous exactitude and minute detail.

11th November, early in the morning.  The fresh air spreading over the interior of the Nautilus
told me that we had come to the surface of the ocean to renew our supply of oxygen.  I directed
my steps to the central staircase, and mounted the platform.

It was six o'clock, the weather was cloudy, the sea grey, but calm. Scarcely a billow.  Captain
Nemo, whom I hoped to meet, would he be there?  I saw no one but the steersman imprisoned in
his glass cage. Seated upon the projection formed by the hull of the pinnace, I inhaled the
salt breeze with delight.

By degrees the fog disappeared under the action of the sun's rays, the radiant orb rose from
behind the eastern horizon.  The sea flamed under its glance like a train of gunpowder.  The
clouds scattered in the heights were coloured with lively tints of beautiful shades, and numerous
"mare's tails," which betokened wind for that day.  But what was wind to this Nautilus, which
tempests could not frighten!

I was admiring this joyous rising of the sun, so gay, and so life-giving, when I heard steps
approaching the platform.  I was prepared to salute Captain Nemo, but it was his second (whom
I had already seen on the Captain's first visit) who appeared.  He advanced on the platform,
not seeming to see me.  With his powerful glass to his eye, he scanned every point of the horizon
with great attention.  This examination over, he approached the panel and pronounced a sentence
in exactly these terms.  I have remembered it, for every morning it was repeated under exactly
the same conditions.  It was thus worded:

"Nautron respoc lorni virch."

What it meant I could not say.

These words pronounced, the second descended.  I thought that the Nautilus was about to return
to its submarine navigation.  I regained the panel and returned to my chamber.

Five days sped thus, without any change in our situation.  Every morning I mounted the platform.
The same phrase was pronounced by the same individual.  But Captain Nemo did not appear.

I had made up my mind that I should never see him again, when, on the 16th November, on returning
to my room with Ned and Conseil, I found upon my table a note addressed to me.  I opened it
impatiently.  It was written in a bold, clear hand, the characters rather pointed, recalling
the German type.  The note was worded as follows:

TO PROFESSOR ARONNAX, On board the Nautilus.  16th of November, 1867.

Captain Nemo invites Professor Aronnax to a hunting-party, which will take place to-morrow
morning in the forests of the Island of Crespo. He hopes that nothing will prevent the Professor
from being present, and he will with pleasure see him joined by his companions.

CAPTAIN NEMO, Commander of the Nautilus.

"A hunt!" exclaimed Ned.

"And in the forests of the Island of Crespo!" added Conseil.

"Oh! then the gentleman is going on terra firma?" replied Ned Land.

"That seems to me to be clearly indicated," said I, reading the letter once more.

"Well, we must accept," said the Canadian.  "But once more on dry ground, we shall know what
to do.  Indeed, I shall not be sorry to eat a piece of fresh venison."

Without seeking to reconcile what was contradictory between Captain Nemo's manifest aversion
to islands and continents, and his invitation to hunt in a forest, I contented myself with
replying:

"Let us first see where the Island of Crespo is."

I consulted the planisphere, and in 32° 40' N. lat. and 157° 50' W. long., I found a small
island, recognised in 1801 by Captain Crespo, and marked in the ancient Spanish maps as Rocca
de la Plata, the meaning of which is The Silver Rock.  We were then about eighteen hundred
miles from our starting-point, and the course of the Nautilus, a little changed, was bringing
it back towards the southeast.

I showed this little rock, lost in the midst of the North Pacific, to my companions.

"If Captain Nemo does sometimes go on dry ground," said I, "he at least chooses desert islands."

Ned Land shrugged his shoulders without speaking, and Conseil and he left me.

After supper, which was served by the steward, mute and impassive, I went to bed, not without
some anxiety.

The next morning, the 17th of November, on awakening, I felt that the Nautilus was perfectly
still.  I dressed quickly and entered the saloon.

Captain Nemo was there, waiting for me.  He rose, bowed, and asked me if it was convenient
for me to accompany him.  As he made no allusion to his absence during the last eight days,
I did not mention it, and simply answered that my companions and myself were ready to follow him.

We entered the dining-room, where breakfast was served.

"M. Aronnax," said the Captain, "pray, share my breakfast without ceremony; we will chat as
we eat.  For, though I promised you a walk in the forest, I did not undertake to find hotels
there.  So breakfast as a man who will most likely not have his dinner till very late."

I did honour to the repast.  It was composed of several kinds of fish, and slices of sea-cucumber,
and different sorts of seaweed.  Our drink consisted of pure water, to which the Captain added
some drops of a fermented liquor, extracted by the Kamschatcha method from a seaweed known
under the name of Rhodomenia palmata.  Captain Nemo ate at first without saying a word.  Then
he began:

"Sir, when I proposed to you to hunt in my submarine forest of Crespo, you evidently thought
me mad.  Sir, you should never judge lightly of any man."

"But Captain, believe me----"

"Be kind enough to listen, and you will then see whether you have any cause to accuse me of
folly and contradiction."

"I listen."

"You know as well as I do, Professor, that man can live under water, providing he carries with
him a sufficient supply of breathable air. In submarine works, the workman, clad in an impervious
dress, with his head in a metal helmet, receives air from above by means of forcing pumps and
regulators."

"That is a diving apparatus," said I.

"Just so, but under these conditions the man is not at liberty; he is attached to the pump
which sends him air through an india-rubber tube, and if we were obliged to be thus held to
the Nautilus, we could not go far."

"And the means of getting free?"  I asked.

"It is to use the Rouquayrol apparatus, invented by two of your own countrymen, which I have
brought to perfection for my own use, and which will allow you to risk yourself under these
new physiological conditions without any organ whatever suffering.  It consists of a reservoir
of thick iron plates, in which I store the air under a pressure of fifty atmospheres.  This
reservoir is fixed on the back by means of braces, like a soldier's knapsack.  Its upper part
forms a box in which the air is kept by means of a bellows, and therefore cannot escape unless
at its normal tension.  In the Rouquayrol apparatus such as we use, two india rubber pipes
leave this box and join a sort of tent which holds the nose and mouth; one is to introduce
fresh air, the other to let out the foul, and the tongue closes one or the other according
to the wants of the respirator.  But I, in encountering great pressures at the bottom of the
sea, was obliged to shut my head, like that of a diver in a ball of copper; and it is to this
ball of copper that the two pipes, the inspirator and the expirator, open."

"Perfectly, Captain Nemo; but the air that you carry with you must soon be used; when it only
contains fifteen per cent.  of oxygen it is no longer fit to breathe."

"Right!  But I told you, M. Aronnax, that the pumps of the Nautilus allow me to store the air
under considerable pressure, and on those conditions the reservoir of the apparatus can furnish
breathable air for nine or ten hours."

"I have no further objections to make," I answered.  "I will only ask you one thing, Captain--how
can you light your road at the bottom of the sea?"

"With the Ruhmkorff apparatus, M. Aronnax; one is carried on the back, the other is fastened
to the waist.  It is composed of a Bunsen pile, which I do not work with bichromate of potash,
but with sodium.  A wire is introduced which collects the electricity produced, and directs
it towards a particularly made lantern.  In this lantern is a spiral glass which contains a
small quantity of carbonic gas.  When the apparatus is at work this gas becomes luminous, giving
out a white and continuous light.  Thus provided, I can breathe and I can see."

"Captain Nemo, to all my objections you make such crushing answers that I dare no longer doubt.
But, if I am forced to admit the Rouquayrol and Ruhmkorff apparatus, I must be allowed some
reservations with regard to the gun I am to carry."

"But it is not a gun for powder," answered the Captain.

"Then it is an air-gun."

"Doubtless!  How would you have me manufacture gun powder on board, without either saltpetre,
sulphur, or charcoal?"

"Besides," I added, "to fire under water in a medium eight hundred and fifty-five times denser
than the air, we must conquer very considerable resistance."

"That would be no difficulty.  There exist guns, according to Fulton, perfected in England
by Philip Coles and Burley, in France by Furcy, and in Italy by Landi, which are furnished
with a peculiar system of closing, which can fire under these conditions.  But I repeat, having
no powder, I use air under great pressure, which the pumps of the Nautilus furnish abundantly."

"But this air must be rapidly used?"

"Well, have I not my Rouquayrol reservoir, which can furnish it at need?  A tap is all that
is required.  Besides M. Aronnax, you must see yourself that, during our submarine hunt, we
can spend but little air and but few balls."

"But it seems to me that in this twilight, and in the midst of this fluid, which is very dense
compared with the atmosphere, shots could not go far, nor easily prove mortal."

"Sir, on the contrary, with this gun every blow is mortal; and, however lightly the animal
is touched, it falls as if struck by a thunderbolt."

"Why?"

"Because the balls sent by this gun are not ordinary balls, but little cases of glass.  These
glass cases are covered with a case of steel, and weighted with a pellet of lead; they are
real Leyden bottles, into which the electricity is forced to a very high tension.  With the
slightest shock they are discharged, and the animal, however strong it may be, falls dead.
I must tell you that these cases are size number four, and that the charge for an ordinary
gun would be ten."

"I will argue no longer," I replied, rising from the table.  "I have nothing left me but to
take my gun.  At all events, I will go where you go."

Captain Nemo then led me aft; and in passing before Ned's and Conseil's cabin, I called my
two companions, who followed promptly.  We then came to a cell near the machinery-room, in
which we put on our walking-dress.

CHAPTER XV

A WALK ON THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA

This cell was, to speak correctly, the arsenal and wardrobe of the Nautilus.  A dozen diving
apparatuses hung from the partition waiting our use.

Ned Land, on seeing them, showed evident repugnance to dress himself in one.

"But, my worthy Ned, the forests of the Island of Crespo are nothing but submarine forests."

"Good!" said the disappointed harpooner, who saw his dreams of fresh meat fade away.  "And
you, M. Aronnax, are you going to dress yourself in those clothes?"

"There is no alternative, Master Ned."

"As you please, sir," replied the harpooner, shrugging his shoulders; "but, as for me, unless
I am forced, I will never get into one."

"No one will force you, Master Ned," said Captain Nemo.

"Is Conseil going to risk it?" asked Ned.

"I follow my master wherever he goes," replied Conseil.

At the Captain's call two of the ship's crew came to help us dress in these heavy and impervious
clothes, made of india-rubber without seam, and constructed expressly to resist considerable
pressure.  One would have thought it a suit of armour, both supple and resisting.  This suit
formed trousers and waistcoat.  The trousers were finished off with thick boots, weighted with
heavy leaden soles.  The texture of the waistcoat was held together by bands of copper, which
crossed the chest, protecting it from the great pressure of the water, and leaving the lungs
free to act; the sleeves ended in gloves, which in no way restrained the movement of the hands.
There was a vast difference noticeable between these consummate apparatuses and the old cork
breastplates, jackets, and other contrivances in vogue during the eighteenth century.

Captain Nemo and one of his companions (a sort of Hercules, who must have possessed great strength),
Conseil and myself were soon enveloped in the dresses.  There remained nothing more to be done
but to enclose our heads in the metal box.  But, before proceeding to this operation, I asked
the Captain's permission to examine the guns.

One of the Nautilus men gave me a simple gun, the butt end of which, made of steel, hollow
in the centre, was rather large.  It served as a reservoir for compressed air, which a valve,
worked by a spring, allowed to escape into a metal tube.  A box of projectiles in a groove
in the thickness of the butt end contained about twenty of these electric balls, which, by
means of a spring, were forced into the barrel of the gun.  As soon as one shot was fired,
another was ready.

"Captain Nemo," said I, "this arm is perfect, and easily handled: I only ask to be allowed
to try it.  But how shall we gain the bottom of the sea?"

"At this moment, Professor, the Nautilus is stranded in five fathoms, and we have nothing to
do but to start."

"But how shall we get off?"

"You shall see."

Captain Nemo thrust his head into the helmet, Conseil and I did the same, not without hearing
an ironical "Good sport!" from the Canadian. The upper part of our dress terminated in a copper
collar upon which was screwed the metal helmet.  Three holes, protected by thick glass, allowed
us to see in all directions, by simply turning our head in the interior of the head-dress.
As soon as it was in position, the Rouquayrol apparatus on our backs began to act; and, for
my part, I could breathe with ease.

With the Ruhmkorff lamp hanging from my belt, and the gun in my hand, I was ready to set out.
But to speak the truth, imprisoned in these heavy garments, and glued to the deck by my leaden
soles, it was impossible for me to take a step.

But this state of things was provided for.  I felt myself being pushed into a little room contiguous
to the wardrobe room.  My companions followed, towed along in the same way.  I heard a water-tight
door, furnished with stopper plates, close upon us, and we were wrapped in profound darkness.

After some minutes, a loud hissing was heard.  I felt the cold mount from my feet to my chest.
Evidently from some part of the vessel they had, by means of a tap, given entrance to the water,
which was invading us, and with which the room was soon filled.  A second door cut in the side
of the Nautilus then opened.  We saw a faint light.  In another instant our feet trod the bottom
of the sea.

And now, how can I retrace the impression left upon me by that walk under the waters?  Words
are impotent to relate such wonders!  Captain Nemo walked in front, his companion followed
some steps behind. Conseil and I remained near each other, as if an exchange of words had been
possible through our metallic cases.  I no longer felt the weight of my clothing, or of my
shoes, of my reservoir of air, or my thick helmet, in the midst of which my head rattled like
an almond in its shell.

The light, which lit the soil thirty feet below the surface of the ocean, astonished me by
its power.  The solar rays shone through the watery mass easily, and dissipated all colour,
and I clearly distinguished objects at a distance of a hundred and fifty yards. Beyond that
the tints darkened into fine gradations of ultramarine, and faded into vague obscurity.  Truly
this water which surrounded me was but another air denser than the terrestrial atmosphere,
but almost as transparent.  Above me was the calm surface of the sea.  We were walking on fine,
even sand, not wrinkled, as on a flat shore, which retains the impression of the billows. 
This dazzling carpet, really a reflector, repelled the rays of the sun with wonderful intensity,
which accounted for the vibration which penetrated every atom of liquid. Shall I be believed
when I say that, at the depth of thirty feet, I could see as if I was in broad daylight?

For a quarter of an hour I trod on this sand, sown with the impalpable dust of shells.  The
hull of the Nautilus, resembling a long shoal, disappeared by degrees; but its lantern, when
darkness should overtake us in the waters, would help to guide us on board by its distinct rays.

Soon forms of objects outlined in the distance were discernible.  I recognised magnificent
rocks, hung with a tapestry of zoophytes of the most beautiful kind, and I was at first struck
by the peculiar effect of this medium.

It was then ten in the morning; the rays of the sun struck the surface of the waves at rather
an oblique angle, and at the touch of their light, decomposed by refraction as through a prism,
flowers, rocks, plants, shells, and polypi were shaded at the edges by the seven solar colours.
It was marvellous, a feast for the eyes, this complication of coloured tints, a perfect kaleidoscope
of green, yellow, orange, violet, indigo, and blue; in one word, the whole palette of an enthusiastic
colourist!  Why could I not communicate to Conseil the lively sensations which were mounting
to my brain, and rival him in expressions of admiration?  For aught I knew, Captain Nemo and
his companion might be able to exchange thoughts by means of signs previously agreed upon.
So, for want of better, I talked to myself; I declaimed in the copper box which covered my
head, thereby expending more air in vain words than was perhaps wise.

Various kinds of isis, clusters of pure tuft-coral, prickly fungi, and anemones formed a brilliant
garden of flowers, decked with their collarettes of blue tentacles, sea-stars studding the
sandy bottom.  It was a real grief to me to crush under my feet the brilliant specimens of
molluscs which strewed the ground by thousands, of hammerheads, donaciae (veritable bounding
shells), of staircases, and red helmet-shells, angel-wings, and many others produced by this
inexhaustible ocean.  But we were bound to walk, so we went on, whilst above our heads waved
medusae whose umbrellas of opal or rose-pink, escalloped with a band of blue, sheltered us
from the rays of the sun and fiery pelagiae, which, in the darkness, would have strewn our
path with phosphorescent light.

All these wonders I saw in the space of a quarter of a mile, scarcely stopping, and following
Captain Nemo, who beckoned me on by signs. Soon the nature of the soil changed; to the sandy
plain succeeded an extent of slimy mud which the Americans call "ooze," composed of equal parts
of silicious and calcareous shells.  We then travelled over a plain of seaweed of wild and
luxuriant vegetation.  This sward was of close texture, and soft to the feet, and rivalled
the softest carpet woven by the hand of man.  But whilst verdure was spread at our feet, it
did not abandon our heads.  A light network of marine plants, of that inexhaustible family
of seaweeds of which more than two thousand kinds are known, grew on the surface of the water.

I noticed that the green plants kept nearer the top of the sea, whilst the red were at a greater
depth, leaving to the black or brown the care of forming gardens and parterres in the remote
beds of the ocean.

We had quitted the Nautilus about an hour and a half.  It was near noon; I knew by the perpendicularity
of the sun's rays, which were no longer refracted.  The magical colours disappeared by degrees,
and the shades of emerald and sapphire were effaced.  We walked with a regular step, which
rang upon the ground with astonishing intensity; the slightest noise was transmitted with a
quickness to which the ear is unaccustomed on the earth; indeed, water is a better conductor
of sound than air, in the ratio of four to one.  At this period the earth sloped downwards;
the light took a uniform tint.  We were at a depth of a hundred and five yards and twenty inches,
undergoing a pressure of six atmospheres.

At this depth I could still see the rays of the sun, though feebly; to their intense brilliancy
had succeeded a reddish twilight, the lowest state between day and night; but we could still
see well enough; it was not necessary to resort to the Ruhmkorff apparatus as yet.  At this
moment Captain Nemo stopped; he waited till I joined him, and then pointed to an obscure mass,
looming in the shadow, at a short distance.

"It is the forest of the Island of Crespo," thought I; and I was not mistaken.

CHAPTER XVI

A SUBMARINE FOREST

We had at last arrived on the borders of this forest, doubtless one of the finest of Captain
Nemo's immense domains.  He looked upon it as his own, and considered he had the same right
over it that the first men had in the first days of the world.  And, indeed, who would have
disputed with him the possession of this submarine property?  What other hardier pioneer would
come, hatchet in hand, to cut down the dark copses?

This forest was composed of large tree-plants; and the moment we penetrated under its vast
arcades, I was struck by the singular position of their branches--a position I had not yet
observed.

Not an herb which carpeted the ground, not a branch which clothed the trees, was either broken
or bent, nor did they extend horizontally; all stretched up to the surface of the ocean.  Not
a filament, not a ribbon, however thin they might be, but kept as straight as a rod of iron.
The fuci and llianas grew in rigid perpendicular lines, due to the density of the element which
had produced them.  Motionless yet, when bent to one side by the hand, they directly resumed
their former position.  Truly it was the region of perpendicularity!

I soon accustomed myself to this fantastic position, as well as to the comparative darkness
which surrounded us.  The soil of the forest seemed covered with sharp blocks, difficult to
avoid.  The submarine flora struck me as being very perfect, and richer even than it would
have been in the arctic or tropical zones, where these productions are not so plentiful.  But
for some minutes I involuntarily confounded the genera, taking animals for plants; and who
would not have been mistaken?  The fauna and the flora are too closely allied in this submarine
world.

These plants are self-propagated, and the principle of their existence is in the water, which
upholds and nourishes them.  The greater number, instead of leaves, shoot forth blades of capricious
shapes, comprised within a scale of colours pink, carmine, green, olive, fawn, and brown.

"Curious anomaly, fantastic element!" said an ingenious naturalist, "in which the animal kingdom
blossoms, and the vegetable does not!"

In about an hour Captain Nemo gave the signal to halt; I, for my part, was not sorry, and we
stretched ourselves under an arbour of alariae, the long thin blades of which stood up like arrows.

This short rest seemed delicious to me; there was nothing wanting but the charm of conversation;
but, impossible to speak, impossible to answer, I only put my great copper head to Conseil's.
I saw the worthy fellow's eyes glistening with delight, and, to show his satisfaction, he shook
himself in his breastplate of air, in the most comical way in the world.

After four hours of this walking, I was surprised not to find myself dreadfully hungry.  How
to account for this state of the stomach I could not tell.  But instead I felt an insurmountable
desire to sleep, which happens to all divers.  And my eyes soon closed behind the thick glasses,
and I fell into a heavy slumber, which the movement alone had prevented before.  Captain Nemo
and his robust companion, stretched in the clear crystal, set us the example.

How long I remained buried in this drowsiness I cannot judge, but, when I woke, the sun seemed
sinking towards the horizon.  Captain Nemo had already risen, and I was beginning to stretch
my limbs, when an unexpected apparition brought me briskly to my feet.

A few steps off, a monstrous sea-spider, about thirty-eight inches high, was watching me with
squinting eyes, ready to spring upon me. Though my diver's dress was thick enough to defend
me from the bite of this animal, I could not help shuddering with horror.  Conseil and the
sailor of the Nautilus awoke at this moment.  Captain Nemo pointed out the hideous crustacean,
which a blow from the butt end of the gun knocked over, and I saw the horrible claws of the
monster writhe in terrible convulsions.  This incident reminded me that other animals more
to be feared might haunt these obscure depths, against whose attacks my diving-dress would
not protect me.  I had never thought of it before, but I now resolved to be upon my guard.
Indeed, I thought that this halt would mark the termination of our walk; but I was mistaken,
for, instead of returning to the Nautilus, Captain Nemo continued his bold excursion.  The
ground was still on the incline, its declivity seemed to be getting greater, and to be leading
us to greater depths.  It must have been about three o'clock when we reached a narrow valley,
between high perpendicular walls, situated about seventy-five fathoms deep.  Thanks to the
perfection of our apparatus, we were forty-five fathoms below the limit which nature seems
to have imposed on man as to his submarine excursions.

I say seventy-five fathoms, though I had no instrument by which to judge the distance.  But
I knew that even in the clearest waters the solar rays could not penetrate further.  And accordingly
the darkness deepened.  At ten paces not an object was visible.  I was groping my way, when
I suddenly saw a brilliant white light.  Captain Nemo had just put his electric apparatus into
use; his companion did the same, and Conseil and I followed their example.  By turning a screw
I established a communication between the wire and the spiral glass, and the sea, lit by our
four lanterns, was illuminated for a circle of thirty-six yards.

As we walked I thought the light of our Ruhmkorff apparatus could not fail to draw some inhabitant
from its dark couch.  But if they did approach us, they at least kept at a respectful distance
from the hunters.  Several times I saw Captain Nemo stop, put his gun to his shoulder, and
after some moments drop it and walk on.  At last, after about four hours, this marvellous excursion
came to an end.  A wall of superb rocks, in an imposing mass, rose before us, a heap of gigantic
blocks, an enormous, steep granite shore, forming dark grottos, but which presented no practicable
slope; it was the prop of the Island of Crespo.  It was the earth!  Captain Nemo stopped suddenly.
A gesture of his brought us all to a halt; and, however desirous I might be to scale the wall,
I was obliged to stop.  Here ended Captain Nemo's domains.  And he would not go beyond them.
Further on was a portion of the globe he might not trample upon.

The return began.  Captain Nemo had returned to the head of his little band, directing their
course without hesitation.  I thought we were not following the same road to return to the
Nautilus.  The new road was very steep, and consequently very painful.  We approached the surface
of the sea rapidly.  But this return to the upper strata was not so sudden as to cause relief
from the pressure too rapidly, which might have produced serious disorder in our organisation,
and brought on internal lesions, so fatal to divers.  Very soon light reappeared and grew,
and, the sun being low on the horizon, the refraction edged the different objects with a spectral
ring.  At ten yards and a half deep, we walked amidst a shoal of little fishes of all kinds,
more numerous than the birds of the air, and also more agile; but no aquatic game worthy of
a shot had as yet met our gaze, when at that moment I saw the Captain shoulder his gun quickly,
and follow a moving object into the shrubs.  He fired; I heard a slight hissing, and a creature
fell stunned at some distance from us.  It was a magnificent sea-otter, an enhydrus, the only
exclusively marine quadruped.  This otter was five feet long, and must have been very valuable.
Its skin, chestnut-brown above and silvery underneath, would have made one of those beautiful
furs so sought after in the Russian and Chinese markets: the fineness and the lustre of its
coat would certainly fetch L80.  I admired this curious mammal, with its rounded head ornamented
with short ears, its round eyes, and white whiskers like those of a cat, with webbed feet and
nails, and tufted tail.  This precious animal, hunted and tracked by fishermen, has now become
very rare, and taken refuge chiefly in the northern parts of the Pacific, or probably its race
would soon become extinct.

Captain Nemo's companion took the beast, threw it over his shoulder, and we continued our journey.
For one hour a plain of sand lay stretched before us.  Sometimes it rose to within two yards
and some inches of the surface of the water.  I then saw our image clearly reflected, drawn
inversely, and above us appeared an identical group reflecting our movements and our actions;
in a word, like us in every point, except that they walked with their heads downward and their
feet in the air.

Another effect I noticed, which was the passage of thick clouds which formed and vanished rapidly;
but on reflection I understood that these seeming clouds were due to the varying thickness
of the reeds at the bottom, and I could even see the fleecy foam which their broken tops multiplied
on the water, and the shadows of large birds passing above our heads, whose rapid flight I
could discern on the surface of the sea.

On this occasion I was witness to one of the finest gun shots which ever made the nerves of
a hunter thrill.  A large bird of great breadth of wing, clearly visible, approached, hovering
over us.  Captain Nemo's companion shouldered his gun and fired, when it was only a few yards
above the waves.  The creature fell stunned, and the force of its fall brought it within the
reach of dexterous hunter's grasp.  It was an albatross of the finest kind.

Our march had not been interrupted by this incident.  For two hours we followed these sandy
plains, then fields of algae very disagreeable to cross.  Candidly, I could do no more when
I saw a glimmer of light, which, for a half mile, broke the darkness of the waters.  It was
the lantern of the Nautilus.  Before twenty minutes were over we should be on board, and I
should be able to breathe with ease, for it seemed that my reservoir supplied air very deficient
in oxygen.  But I did not reckon on an accidental meeting which delayed our arrival for some time.

I had remained some steps behind, when I presently saw Captain Nemo coming hurriedly towards
me.  With his strong hand he bent me to the ground, his companion doing the same to Conseil.
At first I knew not what to think of this sudden attack, but I was soon reassured by seeing
the Captain lie down beside me, and remain immovable.

I was stretched on the ground, just under the shelter of a bush of algae, when, raising my
head, I saw some enormous mass, casting phosphorescent gleams, pass blusteringly by.

My blood froze in my veins as I recognised two formidable sharks which threatened us.  It was
a couple of tintoreas, terrible creatures, with enormous tails and a dull glassy stare, the
phosphorescent matter ejected from holes pierced around the muzzle.  Monstrous brutes! which
would crush a whole man in their iron jaws.  I did not know whether Conseil stopped to classify
them; for my part, I noticed their silver bellies, and their huge mouths bristling with teeth,
from a very unscientific point of view, and more as a possible victim than as a naturalist.

Happily the voracious creatures do not see well.  They passed without seeing us, brushing us
with their brownish fins, and we escaped by a miracle from a danger certainly greater than
meeting a tiger full-face in the forest.  Half an hour after, guided by the electric light
we reached the Nautilus.  The outside door had been left open, and Captain Nemo closed it as
soon as we had entered the first cell.  He then pressed a knob.  I heard the pumps working
in the midst of the vessel, I felt the water sinking from around me, and in a few moments the
cell was entirely empty.  The inside door then opened, and we entered the vestry.

There our diving-dress was taken off, not without some trouble, and, fairly worn out from want
of food and sleep, I returned to my room, in great wonder at this surprising excursion at the
bottom of the sea.

CHAPTER XVII

FOUR THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE PACIFIC

The next morning, the 18th of November, I had quite recovered from my fatigues of the day before,
and I went up on to the platform, just as the second lieutenant was uttering his daily phrase.

I was admiring the magnificent aspect of the ocean when Captain Nemo appeared.  He did not
seem to be aware of my presence, and began a series of astronomical observations.  Then, when
he had finished, he went and leant on the cage of the watch-light, and gazed abstractedly on
the ocean.  In the meantime, a number of the sailors of the Nautilus, all strong and healthy
men, had come up onto the platform. They came to draw up the nets that had been laid all night.
These sailors were evidently of different nations, although the European type was visible in
all of them.  I recognised some unmistakable Irishmen, Frenchmen, some Sclaves, and a Greek,
or a Candiote.  They were civil, and only used that odd language among themselves, the origin
of which I could not guess, neither could I question them.

The nets were hauled in.  They were a large kind of "chaluts," like those on the Normandy coasts,
great pockets that the waves and a chain fixed in the smaller meshes kept open.  These pockets,
drawn by iron poles, swept through the water, and gathered in everything in their way.  That
day they brought up curious specimens from those productive coasts.

I reckoned that the haul had brought in more than nine hundredweight of fish.  It was a fine
haul, but not to be wondered at.  Indeed, the nets are let down for several hours, and enclose
in their meshes an infinite variety.  We had no lack of excellent food, and the rapidity of
the Nautilus and the attraction of the electric light could always renew our supply.  These
several productions of the sea were immediately lowered through the panel to the steward's
room, some to be eaten fresh, and others pickled.

The fishing ended, the provision of air renewed, I thought that the Nautilus was about to continue
its submarine excursion, and was preparing to return to my room, when, without further preamble,
the Captain turned to me, saying:

"Professor, is not this ocean gifted with real life?  It has its tempers and its gentle moods.
Yesterday it slept as we did, and now it has woke after a quiet night.  Look!" he continued,
"it wakes under the caresses of the sun.  It is going to renew its diurnal existence.  It is
an interesting study to watch the play of its organisation.  It has a pulse, arteries, spasms;
and I agree with the learned Maury, who discovered in it a circulation as real as the circulation
of blood in animals.

"Yes, the ocean has indeed circulation, and to promote it, the Creator has caused things to
multiply in it--caloric, salt, and animalculae."

When Captain Nemo spoke thus, he seemed altogether changed, and aroused an extraordinary emotion
in me.

"Also," he added, "true existence is there; and I can imagine the foundations of nautical towns,
clusters of submarine houses, which, like the Nautilus, would ascend every morning to breathe
at the surface of the water, free towns, independent cities.  Yet who knows whether some despot----"

Captain Nemo finished his sentence with a violent gesture.  Then, addressing me as if to chase
away some sorrowful thought:

"M. Aronnax," he asked, "do you know the depth of the ocean?"

"I only know, Captain, what the principal soundings have taught us."

"Could you tell me them, so that I can suit them to my purpose?"

"These are some," I replied, "that I remember.  If I am not mistaken, a depth of 8,000 yards
has been found in the North Atlantic, and 2,500 yards in the Mediterranean.  The most remarkable
soundings have been made in the South Atlantic, near the thirty-fifth parallel, and they gave
12,000 yards, 14,000 yards, and 15,000 yards.  To sum up all, it is reckoned that if the bottom
of the sea were levelled, its mean depth would be about one and three-quarter leagues."

"Well, Professor," replied the Captain, "we shall show you better than that I hope.  As to
the mean depth of this part of the Pacific, I tell you it is only 4,000 yards."

Having said this, Captain Nemo went towards the panel, and disappeared down the ladder.  I
followed him, and went into the large drawing-room. The screw was immediately put in motion,
and the log gave twenty miles an hour.

During the days and weeks that passed, Captain Nemo was very sparing of his visits.  I seldom
saw him.  The lieutenant pricked the ship's course regularly on the chart, so I could always
tell exactly the route of the Nautilus.

Nearly every day, for some time, the panels of the drawing-room were opened, and we were never
tired of penetrating the mysteries of the submarine world.

The general direction of the Nautilus was south-east, and it kept between 100 and 150 yards
of depth.  One day, however, I do not know why, being drawn diagonally by means of the inclined
planes, it touched the bed of the sea.  The thermometer indicated a temperature of 4.25 (cent.):
a temperature that at this depth seemed common to all latitudes.

At three o'clock in the morning of the 26th of November the Nautilus crossed the tropic of
Cancer at 172° long.  On 27th instant it sighted the Sandwich Islands, where Cook died, February
14, 1779.  We had then gone 4,860 leagues from our starting-point. In the morning, when I went
on the platform, I saw two miles to windward, Hawaii, the largest of the seven islands that
form the group.  I saw clearly the cultivated ranges, and the several mountain-chains that
run parallel with the side, and the volcanoes that overtop Mouna-Rea, which rise 5,000 yards
above the level of the sea.  Besides other things the nets brought up, were several flabellariae
and graceful polypi, that are peculiar to that part of the ocean.  The direction of the Nautilus
was still to the south-east. It crossed the equator December 1, in 142° long.; and on the 4th
of the same month, after crossing rapidly and without anything in particular occurring, we
sighted the Marquesas group.  I saw, three miles off, Martin's peak in Nouka-Hiva, the largest
of the group that belongs to France.  I only saw the woody mountains against the horizon, because
Captain Nemo did not wish to bring the ship to the wind.  There the nets brought up beautiful
specimens of fish:  some with azure fins and tails like gold, the flesh of which is unrivalled;
some nearly destitute of scales, but of exquisite flavour; others, with bony jaws, and yellow-tinged
gills, as good as bonitos; all fish that would be of use to us.  After leaving these charming
islands protected by the French flag, from the 4th to the 11th of December the Nautilus sailed
over about 2,000 miles.

During the daytime of the 11th of December I was busy reading in the large drawing-room. Ned
Land and Conseil watched the luminous water through the half-open panels.  The Nautilus was
immovable.  While its reservoirs were filled, it kept at a depth of 1,000 yards, a region rarely
visited in the ocean, and in which large fish were seldom seen.

I was then reading a charming book by Jean Mace, The Slaves of the Stomach, and I was learning
some valuable lessons from it, when Conseil interrupted me.

"Will master come here a moment?" he said, in a curious voice.

"What is the matter, Conseil?"

"I want master to look."

I rose, went, and leaned on my elbows before the panes and watched.

In a full electric light, an enormous black mass, quite immovable, was suspended in the midst
of the waters.  I watched it attentively, seeking to find out the nature of this gigantic cetacean.
But a sudden thought crossed my mind.  "A vessel!" I said, half aloud.

"Yes," replied the Canadian, "a disabled ship that has sunk perpendicularly."

Ned Land was right; we were close to a vessel of which the tattered shrouds still hung from
their chains.  The keel seemed to be in good order, and it had been wrecked at most some few
hours.  Three stumps of masts, broken off about two feet above the bridge, showed that the
vessel had had to sacrifice its masts.  But, lying on its side, it had filled, and it was heeling
over to port.  This skeleton of what it had once been was a sad spectacle as it lay lost under
the waves, but sadder still was the sight of the bridge, where some corpses, bound with ropes,
were still lying.  I counted five--four men, one of whom was standing at the helm, and a woman
standing by the poop, holding an infant in her arms.  She was quite young.  I could distinguish
her features, which the water had not decomposed, by the brilliant light from the Nautilus.
In one despairing effort, she had raised her infant above her head--poor little thing!--whose
arms encircled its mother's neck.  The attitude of the four sailors was frightful, distorted
as they were by their convulsive movements, whilst making a last effort to free themselves
from the cords that bound them to the vessel.  The steersman alone, calm, with a grave, clear
face, his grey hair glued to his forehead, and his hand clutching the wheel of the helm, seemed
even then to be guiding the three broken masts through the depths of the ocean.

What a scene!  We were dumb; our hearts beat fast before this shipwreck, taken as it were from
life and photographed in its last moments.  And I saw already, coming towards it with hungry
eyes, enormous sharks, attracted by the human flesh.

However, the Nautilus, turning, went round the submerged vessel, and in one instant I read
on the stern--"The Florida, Sunderland."

CHAPTER XVIII

VANIKORO

This terrible spectacle was the forerunner of the series of maritime catastrophes that the
Nautilus was destined to meet with in its route. As long as it went through more frequented
waters, we often saw the hulls of shipwrecked vessels that were rotting in the depths, and
deeper down cannons, bullets, anchors, chains, and a thousand other iron materials eaten up
by rust.  However, on the 11th of December we sighted the Pomotou Islands, the old "dangerous
group" of Bougainville, that extend over a space of 500 leagues at E.S.E. to W.N.W., from the
Island Ducie to that of Lazareff.  This group covers an area of 370 square leagues, and it
is formed of sixty groups of islands, among which the Gambier group is remarkable, over which
France exercises sway.  These are coral islands, slowly raised, but continuous, created by
the daily work of polypi.  Then this new island will be joined later on to the neighboring
groups, and a fifth continent will stretch from New Zealand and New Caledonia, and from thence
to the Marquesas.

One day, when I was suggesting this theory to Captain Nemo, he replied coldly:

"The earth does not want new continents, but new men."

Chance had conducted the Nautilus towards the Island of Clermont-Tonnere, one of the most curious
of the group, that was discovered in 1822 by Captain Bell of the Minerva. I could study now
the madreporal system, to which are due the islands in this ocean.

Madrepores (which must not be mistaken for corals) have a tissue lined with a calcareous crust,
and the modifications of its structure have induced M. Milne Edwards, my worthy master, to
class them into five sections. The animalcule that the marine polypus secretes live by millions
at the bottom of their cells. Their calcareous deposits become rocks, reefs, and large and
small islands. Here they form a ring, surrounding a little inland lake, that communicates with
the sea by means of gaps. There they make barriers of reefs like those on the coasts of New
Caledonia and the various Pomoton islands. In other places, like those at Reunion and at Maurice,
they raise fringed reefs, high, straight walls, near which the depth of the ocean is considerable.

Some cable-lengths off the shores of the Island of Clermont I admired the gigantic work accomplished
by these microscopical workers. These walls are specially the work of those madrepores known
as milleporas, porites, madrepores, and astraeas. These polypi are found particularly in the
rough beds of the sea, near the surface; and consequently it is from the upper part that they
begin their operations, in which they bury themselves by degrees with the debris of the secretions
that support them. Such is, at least, Darwin's theory, who thus explains the formation of the
atolls, a superior theory (to my mind) to that given of the foundation of the madreporical
works, summits of mountains or volcanoes, that are submerged some feet below the level of the sea.

I could observe closely these curious walls, for perpendicularly they were more than 300 yards
deep, and our electric sheets lighted up this calcareous matter brilliantly. Replying to a
question Conseil asked me as to the time these colossal barriers took to be raised, I astonished
him much by telling him that learned men reckoned it about the eighth of an inch in a hundred
years.

Towards evening Clermont-Tonnerre was lost in the distance, and the route of the Nautilus was
sensibly changed. After having crossed the tropic of Capricorn in 135° longitude, it sailed
W.N.W., making again for the tropical zone. Although the summer sun was very strong, we did
not suffer from heat, for at fifteen or twenty fathoms below the surface, the temperature did
not rise above from ten to twelve degrees.

On 15th of December, we left to the east the bewitching group of the Societies and the graceful
Tahiti, queen of the Pacific.  I saw in the morning, some miles to the windward, the elevated
summits of the island.  These waters furnished our table with excellent fish, mackerel, bonitos,
and some varieties of a sea-serpent.

On the 25th of December the Nautilus sailed into the midst of the New Hebrides, discovered
by Quiros in 1606, and that Bougainville explored in 1768, and to which Cook gave its present
name in 1773.  This group is composed principally of nine large islands, that form a band of
120 leagues N.N.S. to S.S.W., between 15° and 2° S. lat., and 164 deg. and 168° long.  We passed
tolerably near to the Island of Aurou, that at noon looked like a mass of green woods, surmounted
by a peak of great height.

That day being Christmas Day, Ned Land seemed to regret sorely the non-celebration of "Christmas,"
the family fete of which Protestants are so fond.  I had not seen Captain Nemo for a week,
when, on the morning of the 27th, he came into the large drawing-room, always seeming as if
he had seen you five minutes before.  I was busily tracing the route of the Nautilus on the
planisphere.  The Captain came up to me, put his finger on one spot on the chart, and said
this single word.

"Vanikoro."

The effect was magical!  It was the name of the islands on which La Perouse had been lost!
I rose suddenly.

"The Nautilus has brought us to Vanikoro?"  I asked.

"Yes, Professor," said the Captain.

"And I can visit the celebrated islands where the Boussole and the Astrolabe struck?"

"If you like, Professor."

"When shall we be there?"

"We are there now."

Followed by Captain Nemo, I went up on to the platform, and greedily scanned the horizon.

To the N.E. two volcanic islands emerged of unequal size, surrounded by a coral reef that measured
forty miles in circumference.  We were close to Vanikoro, really the one to which Dumont d'Urville
gave the name of Isle de la Recherche, and exactly facing the little harbour of Vanou, situated
in 16° 4' S. lat., and 164° 32' E. long.  The earth seemed covered with verdure from the shore
to the summits in the interior, that were crowned by Mount Kapogo, 476 feet high.  The Nautilus,
having passed the outer belt of rocks by a narrow strait, found itself among breakers where
the sea was from thirty to forty fathoms deep.  Under the verdant shade of some mangroves I
perceived some savages, who appeared greatly surprised at our approach.  In the long black
body, moving between wind and water, did they not see some formidable cetacean that they regarded
with suspicion?

Just then Captain Nemo asked me what I knew about the wreck of La Perouse.

"Only what everyone knows, Captain," I replied.

"And could you tell me what everyone knows about it?" he inquired, ironically.

"Easily."

I related to him all that the last works of Dumont d'Urville had made known--works from which
the following is a brief account.

La Perouse, and his second, Captain de Langle, were sent by Louis XVI, in 1785, on a voyage
of circumnavigation.  They embarked in the corvettes Boussole and the Astrolabe, neither of
which were again heard of.  In 1791, the French Government, justly uneasy as to the fate of
these two sloops, manned two large merchantmen, the Recherche and the Esperance, which left
Brest the 28th of September under the command of Bruni d'Entrecasteaux.

Two months after, they learned from Bowen, commander of the Albemarle, that the debris of shipwrecked
vessels had been seen on the coasts of New Georgia.  But D'Entrecasteaux, ignoring this communication--rather
uncertain, besides--directed his course towards the Admiralty Islands, mentioned in a report
of Captain Hunter's as being the place where La Perouse was wrecked.

They sought in vain.  The Esperance and the Recherche passed before Vanikoro without stopping
there, and, in fact, this voyage was most disastrous, as it cost D'Entrecasteaux his life,
and those of two of his lieutenants, besides several of his crew.

Captain Dillon, a shrewd old Pacific sailor, was the first to find unmistakable traces of the
wrecks.  On the 15th of May, 1824, his vessel, the St. Patrick, passed close to Tikopia, one
of the New Hebrides.  There a Lascar came alongside in a canoe, sold him the handle of a sword
in silver that bore the print of characters engraved on the hilt.  The Lascar pretended that
six years before, during a stay at Vanikoro, he had seen two Europeans that belonged to some
vessels that had run aground on the reefs some years ago.

Dillon guessed that he meant La Perouse, whose disappearance had troubled the whole world.
He tried to get on to Vanikoro, where, according to the Lascar, he would find numerous debris
of the wreck, but winds and tides prevented him.

Dillon returned to Calcutta.  There he interested the Asiatic Society and the Indian Company
in his discovery.  A vessel, to which was given the name of the Recherche, was put at his disposal,
and he set out, 23rd January, 1827, accompanied by a French agent.

The Recherche, after touching at several points in the Pacific, cast anchor before Vanikoro,
7th July, 1827, in that same harbour of Vanou where the Nautilus was at this time.

There it collected numerous relics of the wreck--iron utensils, anchors, pulley-strops, swivel-guns,
an 18 lb. shot, fragments of astronomical instruments, a piece of crown work, and a bronze
clock, bearing this inscription--"Bazin m'a fait," the mark of the foundry of the arsenal at
Brest about 1785.  There could be no further doubt.

Dillon, having made all inquiries, stayed in the unlucky place till October.  Then he quitted
Vanikoro, and directed his course towards New Zealand; put into Calcutta, 7th April, 1828,
and returned to France, where he was warmly welcomed by Charles X.

But at the same time, without knowing Dillon's movements, Dumont d'Urville had already set
out to find the scene of the wreck.  And they had learned from a whaler that some medals and
a cross of St. Louis had been found in the hands of some savages of Louisiade and New Caledonia.
Dumont d'Urville, commander of the Astrolabe, had then sailed, and two months after Dillon
had left Vanikoro he put into Hobart Town.  There he learned the results of Dillon's inquiries,
and found that a certain James Hobbs, second lieutenant of the Union of Calcutta, after landing
on an island situated 8° 18' S. lat., and 156° 30' E. long., had seen some iron bars and red
stuffs used by the natives of these parts.  Dumont d'Urville, much perplexed, and not knowing
how to credit the reports of low-class journals, decided to follow Dillon's track.

On the 10th of February, 1828, the Astrolabe appeared off Tikopia, and took as guide and interpreter
a deserter found on the island; made his way to Vanikoro, sighted it on the 12th inst., lay
among the reefs until the 14th, and not until the 20th did he cast anchor within the barrier
in the harbour of Vanou.

On the 23rd, several officers went round the island and brought back some unimportant trifles.
The natives, adopting a system of denials and evasions, refused to take them to the unlucky
place.  This ambiguous conduct led them to believe that the natives had ill-treated the castaways,
and indeed they seemed to fear that Dumont d'Urville had come to avenge La Perouse and his
unfortunate crew.

However, on the 26th, appeased by some presents, and understanding that they had no reprisals
to fear, they led M. Jacquireot to the scene of the wreck.

There, in three or four fathoms of water, between the reefs of Pacou and Vanou, lay anchors,
cannons, pigs of lead and iron, embedded in the limy concretions.  The large boat and the whaler
belonging to the Astrolabe were sent to this place, and, not without some difficulty, their
crews hauled up an anchor weighing 1,800 lbs., a brass gun, some pigs of iron, and two copper
swivel-guns.

Dumont d'Urville, questioning the natives, learned too that La Perouse, after losing both his
vessels on the reefs of this island, had constructed a smaller boat, only to be lost a second
time.  Where, no one knew.

But the French Government, fearing that Dumont d'Urville was not acquainted with Dillon's movements,
had sent the sloop Bayonnaise, commanded by Legoarant de Tromelin, to Vanikoro, which had been
stationed on the west coast of America.  The Bayonnaise cast her anchor before Vanikoro some
months after the departure of the Astrolabe, but found no new document; but stated that the
savages had respected the monument to La Perouse.  That is the substance of what I told Captain
Nemo.

"So," he said, "no one knows now where the third vessel perished that was constructed by the
castaways on the island of Vanikoro?"

"No one knows."

Captain Nemo said nothing, but signed to me to follow him into the large saloon.  The Nautilus
sank several yards below the waves, and the panels were opened.

I hastened to the aperture, and under the crustations of coral, covered with fungi, syphonules,
alcyons, madrepores, through myriads of charming fish--girelles, glyphisidri, pompherides,
diacopes, and holocentres--I recognised certain debris that the drags had not been able to
tear up--iron stirrups, anchors, cannons, bullets, capstan fittings, the stem of a ship, all
objects clearly proving the wreck of some vessel, and now carpeted with living flowers. While
I was looking on this desolate scene, Captain Nemo said, in a sad voice:

"Commander La Perouse set out 7th December, 1785, with his vessels La Boussole and the Astrolabe.
He first cast anchor at Botany Bay, visited the Friendly Isles, New Caledonia, then directed
his course towards Santa Cruz, and put into Namouka, one of the Hapai group.  Then his vessels
struck on the unknown reefs of Vanikoro.  The Boussole, which went first, ran aground on the
southerly coast.  The Astrolabe went to its help, and ran aground too.  The first vessel was
destroyed almost immediately.  The second, stranded under the wind, resisted some days.  The
natives made the castaways welcome.  They installed themselves in the island, and constructed
a smaller boat with the debris of the two large ones.  Some sailors stayed willingly at Vanikoro;
the others, weak and ill, set out with La Perouse.  They directed their course towards the
Solomon Islands, and there perished, with everything, on the westerly coast of the chief island
of the group, between Capes Deception and Satisfaction."

"How do you know that?"

"By this, that I found on the spot where was the last wreck."

Captain Nemo showed me a tin-plate box, stamped with the French arms, and corroded by the salt
water.  He opened it, and I saw a bundle of papers, yellow but still readable.

They were the instructions of the naval minister to Commander La Perouse, annotated in the
margin in Louis XVI's handwriting.

"Ah! it is a fine death for a sailor!" said Captain Nemo, at last.  "A coral tomb makes a quiet
grave; and I trust that I and my comrades will find no other."

CHAPTER XIX

TORRES STRAITS

During the night of the 27th or 28th of December, the Nautilus left the shores of Vanikoro
with great speed.  Her course was south-westerly, and in three days she had gone over the 750
leagues that separated it from La Perouse's group and the south-east point of Papua.

Early on the 1st of January, 1863, Conseil joined me on the platform.

"Master, will you permit me to wish you a happy New Year?"

"What!  Conseil; exactly as if I was at Paris in my study at the Jardin des Plantes?  Well,
I accept your good wishes, and thank you for them. Only, I will ask you what you mean by a
`Happy New Year' under our circumstances?  Do you mean the year that will bring us to the end
of our imprisonment, or the year that sees us continue this strange voyage?"

"Really, I do not know how to answer, master.  We are sure to see curious things, and for the
last two months we have not had time for dullness.  The last marvel is always the most astonishing;
and, if we continue this progression, I do not know how it will end.  It is my opinion that
we shall never again see the like.  I think then, with no offence to master, that a happy year
would be one in which we could see everything."

On 2nd January we had made 11,340 miles, or 5,250 French leagues, since our starting-point
in the Japan Seas.  Before the ship's head stretched the dangerous shores of the coral sea,
on the north-east coast of Australia.  Our boat lay along some miles from the redoubtable bank
on which Cook's vessel was lost, 10th June, 1770.  The boat in which Cook was struck on a rock,
and, if it did not sink, it was owing to a piece of coral that was broken by the shock, and
fixed itself in the broken keel.

I had wished to visit the reef, 360 leagues long, against which the sea, always rough, broke
with great violence, with a noise like thunder.  But just then the inclined planes drew the
Nautilus down to a great depth, and I could see nothing of the high coral walls.  I had to
content myself with the different specimens of fish brought up by the nets.  I remarked, among
others, some germons, a species of mackerel as large as a tunny, with bluish sides, and striped
with transverse bands, that disappear with the animal's life.

These fish followed us in shoals, and furnished us with very delicate food. We took also a
large number of gilt-heads, about one and a half inches long, tasting like dorys; and flying
pyrapeds like submarine swallows, which, in dark nights, light alternately the air and water
with their phosphorescent light. Among the molluscs and zoophytes, I found in the meshes of
the net several species of alcyonarians, echini, hammers, spurs, dials, cerites, and hyalleae.
The flora was represented by beautiful floating seaweeds, laminariae, and macrocystes, impregnated
with the mucilage that transudes through their pores; and among which I gathered an admirable
Nemastoma Geliniarois, that was classed among the natural curiosities of the museum.

Two days after crossing the coral sea, 4th January, we sighted the Papuan coasts.  On this
occasion, Captain Nemo informed me that his intention was to get into the Indian Ocean by the
Strait of Torres. His communication ended there.

The Torres Straits are nearly thirty-four leagues wide; but they are obstructed by an innumerable
quantity of islands, islets, breakers, and rocks, that make its navigation almost impracticable;
so that Captain Nemo took all needful precautions to cross them.  The Nautilus, floating betwixt
wind and water, went at a moderate pace.  Her screw, like a cetacean's tail, beat the waves slowly.

Profiting by this, I and my two companions went up on to the deserted platform.  Before us
was the steersman's cage, and I expected that Captain Nemo was there directing the course of
the Nautilus.  I had before me the excellent charts of the Straits of Torres, and I consulted
them attentively.  Round the Nautilus the sea dashed furiously.  The course of the waves, that
went from south-east to north-west at the rate of two and a half miles, broke on the coral
that showed itself here and there.

"This is a bad sea!" remarked Ned Land.

"Detestable indeed, and one that does not suit a boat like the Nautilus."

"The Captain must be very sure of his route, for I see there pieces of coral that would do
for its keel if it only touched them slightly."

Indeed the situation was dangerous, but the Nautilus seemed to slide like magic off these rocks.
It did not follow the routes of the Astrolabe and the Zelee exactly, for they proved fatal
to Dumont d'Urville. It bore more northwards, coasted the Islands of Murray, and came back
to the south-west towards Cumberland Passage.  I thought it was going to pass it by, when,
going back to north-west, it went through a large quantity of islands and islets little known,
towards the Island Sound and Canal Mauvais.

I wondered if Captain Nemo, foolishly imprudent, would steer his vessel into that pass where
Dumont d'Urville's two corvettes touched; when, swerving again, and cutting straight through
to the west, he steered for the Island of Gilboa.

It was then three in the afternoon.  The tide began to recede, being quite full.  The Nautilus
approached the island, that I still saw, with its remarkable border of screw-pines. He stood
off it at about two miles distant.  Suddenly a shock overthrew me.  The Nautilus just touched
a rock, and stayed immovable, laying lightly to port side.

When I rose, I perceived Captain Nemo and his lieutenant on the platform.  They were examining
the situation of the vessel, and exchanging words in their incomprehensible dialect.

She was situated thus:  Two miles, on the starboard side, appeared Gilboa, stretching from
north to west like an immense arm.  Towards the south and east some coral showed itself, left
by the ebb.  We had run aground, and in one of those seas where the tides are middling--a sorry
matter for the floating of the Nautilus.  However, the vessel had not suffered, for her keel
was solidly joined.  But, if she could neither glide off nor move, she ran the risk of being
for ever fastened to these rocks, and then Captain Nemo's submarine vessel would be done for.

I was reflecting thus, when the Captain, cool and calm, always master of himself, approached me.

"An accident?"  I asked.

"No; an incident."

"But an incident that will oblige you perhaps to become an inhabitant of this land from which
you flee?"

Captain Nemo looked at me curiously, and made a negative gesture, as much as to say that nothing
would force him to set foot on terra firma again.  Then he said:

"Besides, M. Aronnax, the Nautilus is not lost; it will carry you yet into the midst of the
marvels of the ocean.  Our voyage is only begun, and I do not wish to be deprived so soon of
the honour of your company."

"However, Captain Nemo," I replied, without noticing the ironical turn of his phrase, "the
Nautilus ran aground in open sea.  Now the tides are not strong in the Pacific; and, if you
cannot lighten the Nautilus, I do not see how it will be reinflated."

"The tides are not strong in the Pacific:  you are right there, Professor; but in Torres Straits
one finds still a difference of a yard and a half between the level of high and low seas. 
To-day is 4th January, and in five days the moon will be full.  Now, I shall be very much astonished
if that satellite does not raise these masses of water sufficiently, and render me a service
that I should be indebted to her for."

Having said this, Captain Nemo, followed by his lieutenant, redescended to the interior of
the Nautilus.  As to the vessel, it moved not, and was immovable, as if the coralline polypi
had already walled it up with their in destructible cement.

"Well, sir?" said Ned Land, who came up to me after the departure of the Captain.

"Well, friend Ned, we will wait patiently for the tide on the 9th instant; for it appears that
the moon will have the goodness to put it off again."

"Really?"

"Really."

"And this Captain is not going to cast anchor at all since the tide will suffice?" said Conseil,
simply.

The Canadian looked at Conseil, then shrugged his shoulders.

"Sir, you may believe me when I tell you that this piece of iron will navigate neither on nor
under the sea again; it is only fit to be sold for its weight.  I think, therefore, that the
time has come to part company with Captain Nemo."

"Friend Ned, I do not despair of this stout Nautilus, as you do; and in four days we shall
know what to hold to on the Pacific tides.  Besides, flight might be possible if we were in
sight of the English or Provencal coast; but on the Papuan shores, it is another thing; and
it will be time enough to come to that extremity if the Nautilus does not recover itself again,
which I look upon as a grave event."

"But do they know, at least, how to act circumspectly?  There is an island; on that island
there are trees; under those trees, terrestrial animals, bearers of cutlets and roast beef,
to which I would willingly give a trial."

"In this, friend Ned is right," said Conseil, "and I agree with him. Could not master obtain
permission from his friend Captain Nemo to put us on land, if only so as not to lose the habit
of treading on the solid parts of our planet?"

"I can ask him, but he will refuse."

"Will master risk it?" asked Conseil, "and we shall know how to rely upon the Captain's amiability."

To my great surprise, Captain Nemo gave me the permission I asked for, and he gave it very
agreeably, without even exacting from me a promise to return to the vessel; but flight across
New Guinea might be very perilous, and I should not have counselled Ned Land to attempt it.
Better to be a prisoner on board the Nautilus than to fall into the hands of the natives.

At eight o'clock, armed with guns and hatchets, we got off the Nautilus.  The sea was pretty
calm; a slight breeze blew on land. Conseil and I rowing, we sped along quickly, and Ned steered
in the straight passage that the breakers left between them.  The boat was well handled, and
moved rapidly.

Ned Land could not restrain his joy.  He was like a prisoner that had escaped from prison,
and knew not that it was necessary to re-enter it.

"Meat!  We are going to eat some meat; and what meat!" he replied. "Real game! no, bread, indeed."

"I do not say that fish is not good; we must not abuse it; but a piece of fresh venison, grilled
on live coals, will agreeably vary our ordinary course."

"Glutton!" said Conseil, "he makes my mouth water."

"It remains to be seen," I said, "if these forests are full of game, and if the game is not
such as will hunt the hunter himself."

"Well said, M. Aronnax," replied the Canadian, whose teeth seemed sharpened like the edge of
a hatchet; "but I will eat tiger--loin of tiger--if there is no other quadruped on this island."

"Friend Ned is uneasy about it," said Conseil.

"Whatever it may be," continued Ned Land, "every animal with four paws without feathers, or
with two paws without feathers, will be saluted by my first shot."

"Very well!  Master Land's imprudences are beginning."

"Never fear, M. Aronnax," replied the Canadian; "I do not want twenty-five minutes to offer
you a dish, of my sort."

At half-past eight the Nautilus boat ran softly aground on a heavy sand, after having happily
passed the coral reef that surrounds the Island of Gilboa.

CHAPTER XX

A FEW DAYS ON LAND

I was much impressed on touching land.  Ned Land tried the soil with his feet, as if to take
possession of it.  However, it was only two months before that we had become, according to
Captain Nemo, "passengers on board the Nautilus," but, in reality, prisoners of its commander.

In a few minutes we were within musket-shot of the coast.  The whole horizon was hidden behind
a beautiful curtain of forests.  Enormous trees, the trunks of which attained a height of 200
feet, were tied to each other by garlands of bindweed, real natural hammocks, which a light
breeze rocked.  They were mimosas, figs, hibisci, and palm trees, mingled together in profusion;
and under the shelter of their verdant vault grew orchids, leguminous plants, and ferns.

But, without noticing all these beautiful specimens of Papuan flora, the Canadian abandoned
the agreeable for the useful.  He discovered a coco-tree, beat down some of the fruit, broke
them, and we drunk the milk and ate the nut with a satisfaction that protested against the
ordinary food on the Nautilus.

"Excellent!" said Ned Land.

"Exquisite!" replied Conseil.

"And I do not think," said the Canadian, "that he would object to our introducing a cargo of
coco-nuts on board."

"I do not think he would, but he would not taste them."

"So much the worse for him," said Conseil.

"And so much the better for us," replied Ned Land.  "There will be more for us."

"One word only, Master Land," I said to the harpooner, who was beginning to ravage another
coco-nut tree.  "Coco-nuts are good things, but before filling the canoe with them it would
be wise to reconnoitre and see if the island does not produce some substance not less useful.
Fresh vegetables would be welcome on board the Nautilus."

"Master is right," replied Conseil; "and I propose to reserve three places in our vessel, one
for fruits, the other for vegetables, and the third for the venison, of which I have not yet
seen the smallest specimen."

"Conseil, we must not despair," said the Canadian.

"Let us continue," I returned, "and lie in wait.  Although the island seems uninhabited, it
might still contain some individuals that would be less hard than we on the nature of game."

"Ho! ho!" said Ned Land, moving his jaws significantly.

"Well, Ned!" said Conseil.

"My word!" returned the Canadian, "I begin to understand the charms of anthropophagy."

"Ned!  Ned! what are you saying?  You, a man-eater? I should not feel safe with you, especially
as I share your cabin.  I might perhaps wake one day to find myself half devoured."

"Friend Conseil, I like you much, but not enough to eat you unnecessarily."

"I would not trust you," replied Conseil.  "But enough.  We must absolutely bring down some
game to satisfy this cannibal, or else one of these fine mornings, master will find only pieces
of his servant to serve him."

While we were talking thus, we were penetrating the sombre arches of the forest, and for two
hours we surveyed it in all directions.

Chance rewarded our search for eatable vegetables, and one of the most useful products of the
tropical zones furnished us with precious food that we missed on board.  I would speak of the
bread-fruit tree, very abundant in the island of Gilboa; and I remarked chiefly the variety
destitute of seeds, which bears in Malaya the name of "rima."

Ned Land knew these fruits well.  He had already eaten many during his numerous voyages, and
he knew how to prepare the eatable substance. Moreover, the sight of them excited him, and
he could contain himself no longer.

"Master," he said, "I shall die if I do not taste a little of this bread-fruit pie."

"Taste it, friend Ned--taste it as you want.  We are here to make experiments--make them."

"It won't take long," said the Canadian.

And, provided with a lentil, he lighted a fire of dead wood that crackled joyously.  During
this time, Conseil and I chose the best fruits of the bread-fruit. Some had not then attained
a sufficient degree of maturity; and their thick skin covered a white but rather fibrous pulp.
Others, the greater number yellow and gelatinous, waited only to be picked.

These fruits enclosed no kernel.  Conseil brought a dozen to Ned Land, who placed them on a
coal fire, after having cut them in thick slices, and while doing this repeating:

"You will see, master, how good this bread is.  More so when one has been deprived of it so
long.  It is not even bread," added he, "but a delicate pastry.  You have eaten none, master?"

"No, Ned."

"Very well, prepare yourself for a juicy thing.  If you do not come for more, I am no longer
the king of harpooners."

After some minutes, the part of the fruits that was exposed to the fire was completely roasted.
The interior looked like a white pasty, a sort of soft crumb, the flavour of which was like
that of an artichoke.

It must be confessed this bread was excellent, and I ate of it with great relish.

"What time is it now?" asked the Canadian.

"Two o'clock at least," replied Conseil.

"How time flies on firm ground!" sighed Ned Land.

"Let us be off," replied Conseil.

We returned through the forest, and completed our collection by a raid upon the cabbage-palms,
that we gathered from the tops of the trees, little beans that I recognised as the "abrou"
of the Malays, and yams of a superior quality.

We were loaded when we reached the boat.  But Ned Land did not find his provisions sufficient.
Fate, however, favoured us.  Just as we were pushing off, he perceived several trees, from
twenty-five to thirty feet high, a species of palm-tree.

At last, at five o'clock in the evening, loaded with our riches, we quitted the shore, and
half an hour after we hailed the Nautilus.  No one appeared on our arrival.  The enormous iron-plated
cylinder seemed deserted.  The provisions embarked, I descended to my chamber, and after supper
slept soundly.

The next day, 6th January, nothing new on board.  Not a sound inside, not a sign of life. 
The boat rested along the edge, in the same place in which we had left it.  We resolved to
return to the island.  Ned Land hoped to be more fortunate than on the day before with regard
to the hunt, and wished to visit another part of the forest.

At dawn we set off.  The boat, carried on by the waves that flowed to shore, reached the island
in a few minutes.

We landed, and, thinking that it was better to give in to the Canadian, we followed Ned Land,
whose long limbs threatened to distance us.  He wound up the coast towards the west:  then,
fording some torrents, he gained the high plain that was bordered with admirable forests. 
Some kingfishers were rambling along the water-courses, but they would not let themselves be
approached.  Their circumspection proved to me that these birds knew what to expect from bipeds
of our species, and I concluded that, if the island was not inhabited, at least human beings
occasionally frequented it.

After crossing a rather large prairie, we arrived at the skirts of a little wood that was enlivened
by the songs and flight of a large number of birds.

"There are only birds," said Conseil.

"But they are eatable," replied the harpooner.

"I do not agree with you, friend Ned, for I see only parrots there."

"Friend Conseil," said Ned, gravely, "the parrot is like pheasant to those who have nothing else."

"And," I added, "this bird, suitably prepared, is worth knife and fork."

Indeed, under the thick foliage of this wood, a world of parrots were flying from branch to
branch, only needing a careful education to speak the human language.  For the moment, they
were chattering with parrots of all colours, and grave cockatoos, who seemed to meditate upon
some philosophical problem, whilst brilliant red lories passed like a piece of bunting carried
away by the breeze, papuans, with the finest azure colours, and in all a variety of winged
things most charming to behold, but few eatable.

However, a bird peculiar to these lands, and which has never passed the limits of the Arrow
and Papuan islands, was wanting in this collection. But fortune reserved it for me before long.

After passing through a moderately thick copse, we found a plain obstructed with bushes.  I
saw then those magnificent birds, the disposition of whose long feathers obliges them to fly
against the wind.  Their undulating flight, graceful aerial curves, and the shading of their
colours, attracted and charmed one's looks.  I had no trouble in recognising them.

"Birds of paradise!"  I exclaimed.

The Malays, who carry on a great trade in these birds with the Chinese, have several means
that we could not employ for taking them.  Sometimes they put snares on the top of high trees
that the birds of paradise prefer to frequent.  Sometimes they catch them with a viscous birdlime
that paralyses their movements.  They even go so far as to poison the fountains that the birds
generally drink from.  But we were obliged to fire at them during flight, which gave us few
chances to bring them down; and, indeed, we vainly exhausted one half our ammunition.

About eleven o'clock in the morning, the first range of mountains that form the centre of the
island was traversed, and we had killed nothing. Hunger drove us on.  The hunters had relied
on the products of the chase, and they were wrong.  Happily Conseil, to his great surprise,
made a double shot and secured breakfast.  He brought down a white pigeon and a wood-pigeon,
which, cleverly plucked and suspended from a skewer, was roasted before a red fire of dead
wood.  While these interesting birds were cooking, Ned prepared the fruit of the bread-tree.
Then the wood-pigeons were devoured to the bones, and declared excellent.  The nutmeg, with
which they are in the habit of stuffing their crops, flavours their flesh and renders it delicious
eating.

"Now, Ned, what do you miss now?"

"Some four-footed game, M. Aronnax.  All these pigeons are only side-dishes and trifles; and
until I have killed an animal with cutlets I shall not be content."

"Nor I, Ned, if I do not catch a bird of paradise."

"Let us continue hunting," replied Conseil.  "Let us go towards the sea.  We have arrived at
the first declivities of the mountains, and I think we had better regain the region of forests."

That was sensible advice, and was followed out.  After walking for one hour we had attained
a forest of sago-trees. Some inoffensive serpents glided away from us.  The birds of paradise
fled at our approach, and truly I despaired of getting near one when Conseil, who was walking
in front, suddenly bent down, uttered a triumphal cry, and came back to me bringing a magnificent
specimen.

"Ah! bravo, Conseil!"

"Master is very good."

"No, my boy; you have made an excellent stroke.  Take one of these living birds, and carry
it in your hand."

"If master will examine it, he will see that I have not deserved great merit."

"Why, Conseil?"

"Because this bird is as drunk as a quail."

"Drunk!"

"Yes, sir; drunk with the nutmegs that it devoured under the nutmeg-tree, under which I found
it.  See, friend Ned, see the monstrous effects of intemperance!"

"By Jove!" exclaimed the Canadian, "because I have drunk gin for two months, you must needs
reproach me!"

However, I examined the curious bird.  Conseil was right.  The bird, drunk with the juice,
was quite powerless.  It could not fly; it could hardly walk.

This bird belonged to the most beautiful of the eight species that are found in Papua and in
the neighbouring islands.  It was the "large emerald bird, the most rare kind." It measured
three feet in length. Its head was comparatively small, its eyes placed near the opening of
the beak, and also small.  But the shades of colour were beautiful, having a yellow beak, brown
feet and claws, nut-coloured wings with purple tips, pale yellow at the back of the neck and
head, and emerald colour at the throat, chestnut on the breast and belly.  Two horned, downy
nets rose from below the tail, that prolonged the long light feathers of admirable fineness,
and they completed the whole of this marvellous bird, that the natives have poetically named
the "bird of the sun."

But if my wishes were satisfied by the possession of the bird of paradise, the Canadian's were
not yet.  Happily, about two o'clock, Ned Land brought down a magnificent hog; from the brood
of those the natives call "bari-outang." The animal came in time for us to procure real quadruped
meat, and he was well received.  Ned Land was very proud of his shot.  The hog, hit by the
electric ball, fell stone dead.  The Canadian skinned and cleaned it properly, after having
taken half a dozen cutlets, destined to furnish us with a grilled repast in the evening.  Then
the hunt was resumed, which was still more marked by Ned and Conseil's exploits.

Indeed, the two friends, beating the bushes, roused a herd of kangaroos that fled and bounded
along on their elastic paws.  But these animals did not take to flight so rapidly but what
the electric capsule could stop their course.

"Ah, Professor!" cried Ned Land, who was carried away by the delights of the chase, "what excellent
game, and stewed, too!  What a supply for the Nautilus!  Two! three! five down!  And to think
that we shall eat that flesh, and that the idiots on board shall not have a crumb!"

I think that, in the excess of his joy, the Canadian, if he had not talked so much, would have
killed them all.  But he contented himself with a single dozen of these interesting marsupians.
These animals were small.  They were a species of those "kangaroo rabbits" that live habitually
in the hollows of trees, and whose speed is extreme; but they are moderately fat, and furnish,
at least, estimable food.  We were very satisfied with the results of the hunt.  Happy Ned
proposed to return to this enchanting island the next day, for he wished to depopulate it of
all the eatable quadrupeds.  But he had reckoned without his host.

At six o'clock in the evening we had regained the shore; our boat was moored to the usual place.
The Nautilus, like a long rock, emerged from the waves two miles from the beach.  Ned Land,
without waiting, occupied himself about the important dinner business.  He understood all about
cooking well.  The "bari-outang," grilled on the coals, soon scented the air with a delicious
odour.

Indeed, the dinner was excellent.  Two wood-pigeons completed this extraordinary menu.  The
sago pasty, the artocarpus bread, some mangoes, half a dozen pineapples, and the liquor fermented
from some coco-nuts, overjoyed us.  I even think that my worthy companions' ideas had not all
the plainness desirable.

"Suppose we do not return to the Nautilus this evening?" said Conseil.

"Suppose we never return?" added Ned Land.

Just then a stone fell at our feet and cut short the harpooner's proposition.

CHAPTER XXI

CAPTAIN NEMO'S THUNDERBOLT

We looked at the edge of the forest without rising, my hand stopping in the action of putting
it to my mouth, Ned Land's completing its office.

"Stones do not fall from the sky," remarked Conseil, "or they would merit the name aerolites."

A second stone, carefully aimed, that made a savoury pigeon's leg fall from Conseil's hand,
gave still more weight to his observation.  We all three arose, shouldered our guns, and were
ready to reply to any attack.

"Are they apes?" cried Ned Land.

"Very nearly--they are savages."

"To the boat!"  I said, hurrying to the sea.

It was indeed necessary to beat a retreat, for about twenty natives armed with bows and slings
appeared on the skirts of a copse that masked the horizon to the right, hardly a hundred steps
from us.

Our boat was moored about sixty feet from us.  The savages approached us, not running, but
making hostile demonstrations.  Stones and arrows fell thickly.

Ned Land had not wished to leave his provisions; and, in spite of his imminent danger, his
pig on one side and kangaroos on the other, he went tolerably fast.  In two minutes we were
on the shore.  To load the boat with provisions and arms, to push it out to sea, and ship the
oars, was the work of an instant.  We had not gone two cable-lengths, when a hundred savages,
howling and gesticulating, entered the water up to their waists.  I watched to see if their
apparition would attract some men from the Nautilus on to the platform.  But no.  The enormous
machine, lying off, was absolutely deserted.

Twenty minutes later we were on board.  The panels were open.  After making the boat fast,
we entered into the interior of the Nautilus.

I descended to the drawing-room, from whence I heard some chords. Captain Nemo was there, bending
over his organ, and plunged in a musical ecstasy.

"Captain!"

He did not hear me.

"Captain!"  I said, touching his hand.

He shuddered, and, turning round, said, "Ah! it is you, Professor? Well, have you had a good
hunt, have you botanised successfully?"

"Yes Captain; but we have unfortunately brought a troop of bipeds, whose vicinity troubles me."

"What bipeds?"

"Savages."

"Savages!" he echoed, ironically.  "So you are astonished, Professor, at having set foot on
a strange land and finding savages?  Savages! where are there not any?  Besides, are they worse
than others, these whom you call savages?"

"But Captain----"

"How many have you counted?"

"A hundred at least."

"M. Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo, placing his fingers on the organ stops, "when all the natives
of Papua are assembled on this shore, the Nautilus will have nothing to fear from their attacks."

The Captain's fingers were then running over the keys of the instrument, and I remarked that
he touched only the black keys, which gave his melodies an essentially Scotch character.  Soon
he had forgotten my presence, and had plunged into a reverie that I did not disturb.  I went
up again on to the platform: night had already fallen; for, in this low latitude, the sun sets
rapidly and without twilight. I could only see the island indistinctly; but the numerous fires,
lighted on the beach, showed that the natives did not think of leaving it.  I was alone for
several hours, sometimes thinking of the natives--but without any dread of them, for the imperturbable
confidence of the Captain was catching--sometimes forgetting them to admire the splendours
of the night in the tropics.  My remembrances went to France in the train of those zodiacal
stars that would shine in some hours' time.  The moon shone in the midst of the constellations
of the zenith.

The night slipped away without any mischance, the islanders frightened no doubt at the sight
of a monster aground in the bay.  The panels were open, and would have offered an easy access
to the interior of the Nautilus.

At six o'clock in the morning of the 8th January I went up on to the platform.  The dawn was
breaking.  The island soon showed itself through the dissipating fogs, first the shore, then
the summits.

The natives were there, more numerous than on the day before--five or six hundred perhaps--some
of them, profiting by the low water, had come on to the coral, at less than two cable-lengths
from the Nautilus.  I distinguished them easily; they were true Papuans, with athletic figures,
men of good race, large high foreheads, large, but not broad and flat, and white teeth.  Their
woolly hair, with a reddish tinge, showed off on their black shining bodies like those of the
Nubians. From the lobes of their ears, cut and distended, hung chaplets of bones.  Most of
these savages were naked.  Amongst them, I remarked some women, dressed from the hips to knees
in quite a crinoline of herbs, that sustained a vegetable waistband.  Some chiefs had ornamented
their necks with a crescent and collars of glass beads, red and white; nearly all were armed
with bows, arrows, and shields and carried on their shoulders a sort of net containing those
round stones which they cast from their slings with great skill.  One of these chiefs, rather
near to the Nautilus, examined it attentively.  He was, perhaps, a "mado" of high rank, for
he was draped in a mat of banana-leaves, notched round the edges, and set off with brilliant
colours.

I could easily have knocked down this native, who was within a short length; but I thought
that it was better to wait for real hostile demonstrations.  Between Europeans and savages,
it is proper for the Europeans to parry sharply, not to attack.

During low water the natives roamed about near the Nautilus, but were not troublesome; I heard
them frequently repeat the word "Assai," and by their gestures I understood that they invited
me to go on land, an invitation that I declined.

So that, on that day, the boat did not push off, to the great displeasure of Master Land, who
could not complete his provisions.

This adroit Canadian employed his time in preparing the viands and meat that he had brought
off the island.  As for the savages, they returned to the shore about eleven o'clock in the
morning, as soon as the coral tops began to disappear under the rising tide; but I saw their
numbers had increased considerably on the shore.  Probably they came from the neighbouring
islands, or very likely from Papua.  However, I had not seen a single native canoe.  Having
nothing better to do, I thought of dragging these beautiful limpid waters, under which I saw
a profusion of shells, zoophytes, and marine plants.  Moreover, it was the last day that the
Nautilus would pass in these parts, if it float in open sea the next day, according to Captain
Nemo's promise.

I therefore called Conseil, who brought me a little light drag, very like those for the oyster
fishery.  Now to work!  For two hours we fished unceasingly, but without bringing up any rarities.
The drag was filled with midas-ears, harps, melames, and particularly the most beautiful hammers
I have ever seen.  We also brought up some sea-slugs, pearl-oysters, and a dozen little turtles
that were reserved for the pantry on board.

But just when I expected it least, I put my hand on a wonder, I might say a natural deformity,
very rarely met with.  Conseil was just dragging, and his net came up filled with divers ordinary
shells, when, all at once, he saw me plunge my arm quickly into the net, to draw out a shell,
and heard me utter a cry.

"What is the matter, sir?" he asked in surprise.  "Has master been bitten?"

"No, my boy; but I would willingly have given a finger for my discovery."

"What discovery?"

"This shell," I said, holding up the object of my triumph.

"It is simply an olive porphyry, genus olive, order of the pectinibranchidae, class of gasteropods,
sub-class mollusca."

"Yes, Conseil; but, instead of being rolled from right to left, this olive turns from left
to right."

"Is it possible?"

"Yes, my boy; it is a left shell."

Shells are all right-handed, with rare exceptions; and, when by chance their spiral is left,
amateurs are ready to pay their weight in gold.

Conseil and I were absorbed in the contemplation of our treasure, and I was promising myself
to enrich the museum with it, when a stone unfortunately thrown by a native struck against,
and broke, the precious object in Conseil's hand.  I uttered a cry of despair! Conseil took
up his gun, and aimed at a savage who was poising his sling at ten yards from him.  I would
have stopped him, but his blow took effect and broke the bracelet of amulets which encircled
the arm of the savage.

"Conseil!" cried I. "Conseil!"

"Well, sir! do you not see that the cannibal has commenced the attack?"

"A shell is not worth the life of a man," said I.

"Ah! the scoundrel!" cried Conseil; "I would rather he had broken my shoulder!"

Conseil was in earnest, but I was not of his opinion.  However, the situation had changed some
minutes before, and we had not perceived.  A score of canoes surrounded the Nautilus.  These
canoes, scooped out of the trunk of a tree, long, narrow, well adapted for speed, were balanced
by means of a long bamboo pole, which floated on the water. They were managed by skilful, half-naked
paddlers, and I watched their advance with some uneasiness.  It was evident that these Papuans
had already had dealings with the Europeans and knew their ships.  But this long iron cylinder
anchored in the bay, without masts or chimneys, what could they think of it?  Nothing good,
for at first they kept at a respectful distance.  However, seeing it motionless, by degrees
they took courage, and sought to familiarise themselves with it.  Now this familiarity was
precisely what it was necessary to avoid.  Our arms, which were noiseless, could only produce
a moderate effect on the savages, who have little respect for aught but blustering things.
The thunderbolt without the reverberations of thunder would frighten man but little, though
the danger lies in the lightning, not in the noise.

At this moment the canoes approached the Nautilus, and a shower of arrows alighted on her.

I went down to the saloon, but found no one there.  I ventured to knock at the door that opened
into the Captain's room.  "Come in," was the answer.

I entered, and found Captain Nemo deep in algebraical calculations of x and other quantities.

"I am disturbing you," said I, for courtesy's sake.

"That is true, M. Aronnax," replied the Captain; "but I think you have serious reasons for
wishing to see me?"

"Very grave ones; the natives are surrounding us in their canoes, and in a few minutes we shall
certainly be attacked by many hundreds of savages."

"Ah!" said Captain Nemo quietly, "they are come with their canoes?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, sir, we must close the hatches."

"Exactly, and I came to say to you----"

"Nothing can be more simple," said Captain Nemo.  And, pressing an electric button, he transmitted
an order to the ship's crew.

"It is all done, sir," said he, after some moments.  "The pinnace is ready, and the hatches
are closed.  You do not fear, I imagine, that these gentlemen could stave in walls on which
the balls of your frigate have had no effect?"

"No, Captain; but a danger still exists."

"What is that, sir?"

"It is that to-morrow, at about this hour, we must open the hatches to renew the air of the
Nautilus.  Now, if, at this moment, the Papuans should occupy the platform, I do not see how
you could prevent them from entering."

"Then, sir, you suppose that they will board us?"

"I am certain of it."

"Well, sir, let them come.  I see no reason for hindering them.  After all, these Papuans are
poor creatures, and I am unwilling that my visit to the island should cost the life of a single
one of these wretches."

Upon that I was going away; But Captain Nemo detained me, and asked me to sit down by him.
He questioned me with interest about our excursions on shore, and our hunting; and seemed not
to understand the craving for meat that possessed the Canadian.  Then the conversation turned
on various subjects, and, without being more communicative, Captain Nemo showed himself more
amiable.

Amongst other things, we happened to speak of the situation of the Nautilus, run aground in
exactly the same spot in this strait where Dumont d'Urville was nearly lost.  Apropos of this:

"This D'Urville was one of your great sailors," said the Captain to me, "one of your most intelligent
navigators.  He is the Captain Cook of you Frenchmen.  Unfortunate man of science, after having
braved the icebergs of the South Pole, the coral reefs of Oceania, the cannibals of the Pacific,
to perish miserably in a railway train!  If this energetic man could have reflected during
the last moments of his life, what must have been uppermost in his last thoughts, do you suppose?"

So speaking, Captain Nemo seemed moved, and his emotion gave me a better opinion of him.  Then,
chart in hand, we reviewed the travels of the French navigator, his voyages of circumnavigation,
his double detention at the South Pole, which led to the discovery of Adelaide and Louis Philippe,
and fixing the hydrographical bearings of the principal islands of Oceania.

"That which your D'Urville has done on the surface of the seas," said Captain Nemo, "that have
I done under them, and more easily, more completely than he.  The Astrolabe and the Zelee,
incessantly tossed about by the hurricane, could not be worth the Nautilus, quiet repository
of labour that she is, truly motionless in the midst of the waters.

"To-morrow," added the Captain, rising, "to-morrow, at twenty minutes to three p.m., the Nautilus
shall float, and leave the Strait of Torres uninjured."

Having curtly pronounced these words, Captain Nemo bowed slightly. This was to dismiss me,
and I went back to my room.

There I found Conseil, who wished to know the result of my interview with the Captain.

"My boy," said I, "when I feigned to believe that his Nautilus was threatened by the natives
of Papua, the Captain answered me very sarcastically.  I have but one thing to say to you:
Have confidence in him, and go to sleep in peace."

"Have you no need of my services, sir?"

"No, my friend.  What is Ned Land doing?"

"If you will excuse me, sir," answered Conseil, "friend Ned is busy making a kangaroo-pie which
will be a marvel."

I remained alone and went to bed, but slept indifferently.  I heard the noise of the savages,
who stamped on the platform, uttering deafening cries.  The night passed thus, without disturbing
the ordinary repose of the crew.  The presence of these cannibals affected them no more than
the soldiers of a masked battery care for the ants that crawl over its front.

At six in the morning I rose.  The hatches had not been opened.  The inner air was not renewed,
but the reservoirs, filled ready for any emergency, were now resorted to, and discharged several
cubic feet of oxygen into the exhausted atmosphere of the Nautilus.

I worked in my room till noon, without having seen Captain Nemo, even for an instant.  On board
no preparations for departure were visible.

I waited still some time, then went into the large saloon.  The clock marked half-past two.
In ten minutes it would be high-tide: and, if Captain Nemo had not made a rash promise, the
Nautilus would be immediately detached.  If not, many months would pass ere she could leave
her bed of coral.

However, some warning vibrations began to be felt in the vessel.  I heard the keel grating
against the rough calcareous bottom of the coral reef.

At five-and-twenty minutes to three, Captain Nemo appeared in the saloon.

"We are going to start," said he.

"Ah!" replied I.

"I have given the order to open the hatches."

"And the Papuans?"

"The Papuans?" answered Captain Nemo, slightly shrugging his shoulders.

"Will they not come inside the Nautilus?"

"How?"

"Only by leaping over the hatches you have opened."

"M. Aronnax," quietly answered Captain Nemo, "they will not enter the hatches of the Nautilus
in that way, even if they were open."

I looked at the Captain.

"You do not understand?" said he.

"Hardly."

"Well, come and you will see."

I directed my steps towards the central staircase.  There Ned Land and Conseil were slyly watching
some of the ship's crew, who were opening the hatches, while cries of rage and fearful vociferations
resounded outside.

The port lids were pulled down outside.  Twenty horrible faces appeared.  But the first native
who placed his hand on the stair-rail, struck from behind by some invisible force, I know not
what, fled, uttering the most fearful cries and making the wildest contortions.

Ten of his companions followed him.  They met with the same fate.

Conseil was in ecstasy.  Ned Land, carried away by his violent instincts, rushed on to the
staircase.  But the moment he seized the rail with both hands, he, in his turn, was overthrown.

"I am struck by a thunderbolt," cried he, with an oath.

This explained all.  It was no rail; but a metallic cable charged with electricity from the
deck communicating with the platform.  Whoever touched it felt a powerful shock--and this shock
would have been mortal if Captain Nemo had discharged into the conductor the whole force of
the current.  It might truly be said that between his assailants and himself he had stretched
a network of electricity which none could pass with impunity.

Meanwhile, the exasperated Papuans had beaten a retreat paralysed with terror.  As for us,
half laughing, we consoled and rubbed the unfortunate Ned Land, who swore like one possessed.

But at this moment the Nautilus, raised by the last waves of the tide, quitted her coral bed
exactly at the fortieth minute fixed by the Captain.  Her screw swept the waters slowly and
majestically.  Her speed increased gradually, and, sailing on the surface of the ocean, she
quitted safe and sound the dangerous passes of the Straits of Torres.

CHAPTER XXII

"AEGRI SOMNIA"

The following day 10th January, the Nautilus continued her course between two seas, but with
such remarkable speed that I could not estimate it at less than thirty-five miles an hour.
The rapidity of her screw was such that I could neither follow nor count its revolutions. 
When I reflected that this marvellous electric agent, after having afforded motion, heat, and
light to the Nautilus, still protected her from outward attack, and transformed her into an
ark of safety which no profane hand might touch without being thunderstricken, my admiration
was unbounded, and from the structure it extended to the engineer who had called it into existence.

Our course was directed to the west, and on the 11th of January we doubled Cape Wessel, situation
in 135° long. and 10° S. lat., which forms the east point of the Gulf of Carpentaria.  The
reefs were still numerous, but more equalised, and marked on the chart with extreme precision.
The Nautilus easily avoided the breakers of Money to port and the Victoria reefs to starboard,
placed at 130° long. and on the 10th parallel, which we strictly followed.

On the 13th of January, Captain Nemo arrived in the Sea of Timor, and recognised the island
of that name in 122° long.

From this point the direction of the Nautilus inclined towards the south-west. Her head was
set for the Indian Ocean.  Where would the fancy of Captain Nemo carry us next?  Would he return
to the coast of Asia or would he approach again the shores of Europe?  Improbable conjectures
both, to a man who fled from inhabited continents.  Then would he descend to the south?  Was
he going to double the Cape of Good Hope, then Cape Horn, and finally go as far as the Antarctic
pole? Would he come back at last to the Pacific, where his Nautilus could sail free and independently?
Time would show.

After having skirted the sands of Cartier, of Hibernia, Seringapatam, and Scott, last efforts
of the solid against the liquid element, on the 14th of January we lost sight of land altogether.
The speed of the Nautilus was considerably abated, and with irregular course she sometimes
swam in the bosom of the waters, sometimes floated on their surface.

During this period of the voyage, Captain Nemo made some interesting experiments on the varied
temperature of the sea, in different beds. Under ordinary conditions these observations are
made by means of rather complicated instruments, and with somewhat doubtful results, by means
of thermometrical sounding-leads, the glasses often breaking under the pressure of the water,
or an apparatus grounded on the variations of the resistance of metals to the electric currents.
Results so obtained could not be correctly calculated.  On the contrary, Captain Nemo went
himself to test the temperature in the depths of the sea, and his thermometer, placed in communication
with the different sheets of water, gave him the required degree immediately and accurately.

It was thus that, either by overloading her reservoirs or by descending obliquely by means
of her inclined planes, the Nautilus successively attained the depth of three, four, five,
seven, nine, and ten thousand yards, and the definite result of this experience was that the
sea preserved an average temperature of four degrees and a half at a depth of five thousand
fathoms under all latitudes.

On the 16th of January, the Nautilus seemed becalmed only a few yards beneath the surface of
the waves.  Her electric apparatus remained inactive and her motionless screw left her to drift
at the mercy of the currents.  I supposed that the crew was occupied with interior repairs,
rendered necessary by the violence of the mechanical movements of the machine.

My companions and I then witnessed a curious spectacle.  The hatches of the saloon were open,
and, as the beacon light of the Nautilus was not in action, a dim obscurity reigned in the
midst of the waters.  I observed the state of the sea, under these conditions, and the largest
fish appeared to me no more than scarcely defined shadows, when the Nautilus found herself
suddenly transported into full light.  I thought at first that the beacon had been lighted,
and was casting its electric radiance into the liquid mass.  I was mistaken, and after a rapid
survey perceived my error.

The Nautilus floated in the midst of a phosphorescent bed which, in this obscurity, became
quite dazzling.  It was produced by myriads of luminous animalculae, whose brilliancy was increased
as they glided over the metallic hull of the vessel.  I was surprised by lightning in the midst
of these luminous sheets, as though they had been rivulets of lead melted in an ardent furnace
or metallic masses brought to a white heat, so that, by force of contrast, certain portions
of light appeared to cast a shade in the midst of the general ignition, from which all shade
seemed banished.  No; this was not the calm irradiation of our ordinary lightning.  There was
unusual life and vigour: this was truly living light!

In reality, it was an infinite agglomeration of coloured infusoria, of veritable globules of
jelly, provided with a threadlike tentacle, and of which as many as twenty-five thousand have
been counted in less than two cubic half-inches of water.

During several hours the Nautilus floated in these brilliant waves, and our admiration increased
as we watched the marine monsters disporting themselves like salamanders.  I saw there in the
midst of this fire that burns not the swift and elegant porpoise (the indefatigable clown of
the ocean), and some swordfish ten feet long, those prophetic heralds of the hurricane whose
formidable sword would now and then strike the glass of the saloon.  Then appeared the smaller
fish, the balista, the leaping mackerel, wolf-thorn-tails, and a hundred others which striped
the luminous atmosphere as they swam.  This dazzling spectacle was enchanting!  Perhaps some
atmospheric condition increased the intensity of this phenomenon.  Perhaps some storm agitated
the surface of the waves.  But at this depth of some yards, the Nautilus was unmoved by its
fury and reposed peacefully in still water.

So we progressed, incessantly charmed by some new marvel.  The days passed rapidly away, and
I took no account of them.  Ned, according to habit, tried to vary the diet on board.  Like
snails, we were fixed to our shells, and I declare it is easy to lead a snail's life.

Thus this life seemed easy and natural, and we thought no longer of the life we led on land;
but something happened to recall us to the strangeness of our situation.

On the 18th of January, the Nautilus was in 105° long. and 15° S. lat.  The weather was threatening,
the sea rough and rolling.  There was a strong east wind.  The barometer, which had been going
down for some days, foreboded a coming storm.  I went up on to the platform just as the second
lieutenant was taking the measure of the horary angles, and waited, according to habit till
the daily phrase was said.  But on this day it was exchanged for another phrase not less incomprehensible.
Almost directly, I saw Captain Nemo appear with a glass, looking towards the horizon.

For some minutes he was immovable, without taking his eye off the point of observation.  Then
he lowered his glass and exchanged a few words with his lieutenant.  The latter seemed to be
a victim to some emotion that he tried in vain to repress.  Captain Nemo, having more command
over himself, was cool.  He seemed, too, to be making some objections to which the lieutenant
replied by formal assurances.  At least I concluded so by the difference of their tones and
gestures.  For myself, I had looked carefully in the direction indicated without seeing anything.
The sky and water were lost in the clear line of the horizon.

However, Captain Nemo walked from one end of the platform to the other, without looking at
me, perhaps without seeing me.  His step was firm, but less regular than usual.  He stopped
sometimes, crossed his arms, and observed the sea.  What could he be looking for on that immense
expanse?

The Nautilus was then some hundreds of miles from the nearest coast.

The lieutenant had taken up the glass and examined the horizon steadfastly, going and coming,
stamping his foot and showing more nervous agitation than his superior officer.  Besides, this
mystery must necessarily be solved, and before long; for, upon an order from Captain Nemo,
the engine, increasing its propelling power, made the screw turn more rapidly.

Just then the lieutenant drew the Captain's attention again.  The latter stopped walking and
directed his glass towards the place indicated.  He looked long.  I felt very much puzzled,
and descended to the drawing-room, and took out an excellent telescope that I generally used.
Then, leaning on the cage of the watch-light that jutted out from the front of the platform,
set myself to look over all the line of the sky and sea.

But my eye was no sooner applied to the glass than it was quickly snatched out of my hands.

I turned round.  Captain Nemo was before me, but I did not know him. His face was transfigured.
His eyes flashed sullenly; his teeth were set; his stiff body, clenched fists, and head shrunk
between his shoulders, betrayed the violent agitation that pervaded his whole frame.  He did
not move.  My glass, fallen from his hands, had rolled at his feet.

Had I unwittingly provoked this fit of anger?  Did this incomprehensible person imagine that
I had discovered some forbidden secret?  No; I was not the object of this hatred, for he was
not looking at me; his eye was steadily fixed upon the impenetrable point of the horizon. 
At last Captain Nemo recovered himself.  His agitation subsided.  He addressed some words in
a foreign language to his lieutenant, then turned to me.  "M. Aronnax," he said, in rather
an imperious tone, "I require you to keep one of the conditions that bind you to me."

"What is it, Captain?"

"You must be confined, with your companions, until I think fit to release you."

"You are the master," I replied, looking steadily at him.  "But may I ask you one question?"

"None, sir."

There was no resisting this imperious command, it would have been useless.  I went down to
the cabin occupied by Ned Land and Conseil, and told them the Captain's determination.  You
may judge how this communication was received by the Canadian.

But there was not time for altercation.  Four of the crew waited at the door, and conducted
us to that cell where we had passed our first night on board the Nautilus.

Ned Land would have remonstrated, but the door was shut upon him.

"Will master tell me what this means?" asked Conseil.

I told my companions what had passed.  They were as much astonished as I, and equally at a
loss how to account for it.

Meanwhile, I was absorbed in my own reflections, and could think of nothing but the strange
fear depicted in the Captain's countenance.  I was utterly at a loss to account for it, when
my cogitations were disturbed by these words from Ned Land:

"Hallo! breakfast is ready."

And indeed the table was laid.  Evidently Captain Nemo had given this order at the same time
that he had hastened the speed of the Nautilus.

"Will master permit me to make a recommendation?" asked Conseil.

"Yes, my boy."

"Well, it is that master breakfasts.  It is prudent, for we do not know what may happen."

"You are right, Conseil."

"Unfortunately," said Ned Land, "they have only given us the ship's fare."

"Friend Ned," asked Conseil, "what would you have said if the breakfast had been entirely forgotten?"

This argument cut short the harpooner's recriminations.

We sat down to table.  The meal was eaten in silence.

Just then the luminous globe that lighted the cell went out, and left us in total darkness.
Ned Land was soon asleep, and what astonished me was that Conseil went off into a heavy slumber.
I was thinking what could have caused his irresistible drowsiness, when I felt my brain becoming
stupefied.  In spite of my efforts to keep my eyes open, they would close.  A painful suspicion
seized me.  Evidently soporific substances had been mixed with the food we had just taken.
Imprisonment was not enough to conceal Captain Nemo's projects from us, sleep was more necessary.
I then heard the panels shut.  The undulations of the sea, which caused a slight rolling motion,
ceased. Had the Nautilus quitted the surface of the ocean?  Had it gone back to the motionless
bed of water?  I tried to resist sleep.  It was impossible.  My breathing grew weak.  I felt
a mortal cold freeze my stiffened and half-paralysed limbs.  My eye lids, like leaden caps,
fell over my eyes.  I could not raise them; a morbid sleep, full of hallucinations, bereft
me of my being.  Then the visions disappeared, and left me in complete insensibility.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE CORAL KINGDOM

The next day I woke with my head singularly clear.  To my great surprise, I was in my own room.
My companions, no doubt, had been reinstated in their cabin, without having perceived it any
more than I. Of what had passed during the night they were as ignorant as I was, and to penetrate
this mystery I only reckoned upon the chances of the future.

I then thought of quitting my room.  Was I free again or a prisoner? Quite free.  I opened
the door, went to the half-deck, went up the central stairs.  The panels, shut the evening
before, were open.  I went on to the platform.

Ned Land and Conseil waited there for me.  I questioned them; they knew nothing.  Lost in a
heavy sleep in which they had been totally unconscious, they had been astonished at finding
themselves in their cabin.

As for the Nautilus, it seemed quiet and mysterious as ever.  It floated on the surface of
the waves at a moderate pace.  Nothing seemed changed on board.

The second lieutenant then came on to the platform, and gave the usual order below.

As for Captain Nemo, he did not appear.

Of the people on board, I only saw the impassive steward, who served me with his usual dumb
regularity.

About two o'clock, I was in the drawing-room, busied in arranging my notes, when the Captain
opened the door and appeared.  I bowed.  He made a slight inclination in return, without speaking.
I resumed my work, hoping that he would perhaps give me some explanation of the events of the
preceding night.  He made none.  I looked at him.  He seemed fatigued; his heavy eyes had not
been refreshed by sleep; his face looked very sorrowful.  He walked to and fro, sat down and
got up again, took a chance book, put it down, consulted his instruments without taking his
habitual notes, and seemed restless and uneasy.  At last, he came up to me, and said:

"Are you a doctor, M. Aronnax?"

I so little expected such a question that I stared some time at him without answering.

"Are you a doctor?" he repeated.  "Several of your colleagues have studied medicine."

"Well," said I, "I am a doctor and resident surgeon to the hospital.  I practised several years
before entering the museum."

"Very well, sir."

My answer had evidently satisfied the Captain.  But, not knowing what he would say next, I
waited for other questions, reserving my answers according to circumstances.

"M. Aronnax, will you consent to prescribe for one of my men?" he asked.

"Is he ill?"

"Yes."

"I am ready to follow you."

"Come, then."

I own my heart beat, I do not know why.  I saw certain connection between the illness of one
of the crew and the events of the day before; and this mystery interested me at least as much
as the sick man.

Captain Nemo conducted me to the poop of the Nautilus, and took me into a cabin situated near
the sailors' quarters.

There, on a bed, lay a man about forty years of age, with a resolute expression of countenance,
a true type of an Anglo-Saxon.

I leant over him.  He was not only ill, he was wounded.  His head, swathed in bandages covered
with blood, lay on a pillow.  I undid the bandages, and the wounded man looked at me with his
large eyes and gave no sign of pain as I did it.  It was a horrible wound.  The skull, shattered
by some deadly weapon, left the brain exposed, which was much injured.  Clots of blood had
formed in the bruised and broken mass, in colour like the dregs of wine.

There was both contusion and suffusion of the brain.  His breathing was slow, and some spasmodic
movements of the muscles agitated his face.  I felt his pulse.  It was intermittent.  The extremities
of the body were growing cold already, and I saw death must inevitably ensue.  After dressing
the unfortunate man's wounds, I readjusted the bandages on his head, and turned to Captain Nemo.

"What caused this wound?"  I asked.

"What does it signify?" he replied, evasively.  "A shock has broken one of the levers of the
engine, which struck myself.  But your opinion as to his state?"

I hesitated before giving it.

"You may speak," said the Captain.  "This man does not understand French."

I gave a last look at the wounded man.

"He will be dead in two hours."

"Can nothing save him?"

"Nothing."

Captain Nemo's hand contracted, and some tears glistened in his eyes, which I thought incapable
of shedding any.

For some moments I still watched the dying man, whose life ebbed slowly.  His pallor increased
under the electric light that was shed over his death-bed. I looked at his intelligent forehead,
furrowed with premature wrinkles, produced probably by misfortune and sorrow.  I tried to learn
the secret of his life from the last words that escaped his lips.

"You can go now, M. Aronnax," said the Captain.

I left him in the dying man's cabin, and returned to my room much affected by this scene. 
During the whole day, I was haunted by uncomfortable suspicions, and at night I slept badly,
and between my broken dreams I fancied I heard distant sighs like the notes of a funeral psalm.
Were they the prayers of the dead, murmured in that language that I could not understand?

The next morning I went on to the bridge.  Captain Nemo was there before me.  As soon as he
perceived me he came to me.

"Professor, will it be convenient to you to make a submarine excursion to-day?"

"With my companions?"  I asked.

"If they like."

"We obey your orders, Captain."

"Will you be so good then as to put on your cork jackets?"

It was not a question of dead or dying.  I rejoined Ned Land and Conseil, and told them of
Captain Nemo's proposition.  Conseil hastened to accept it, and this time the Canadian seemed
quite willing to follow our example.

It was eight o'clock in the morning.  At half-past eight we were equipped for this new excursion,
and provided with two contrivances for light and breathing.  The double door was open; and,
accompanied by Captain Nemo, who was followed by a dozen of the crew, we set foot, at a depth
of about thirty feet, on the solid bottom on which the Nautilus rested.

A slight declivity ended in an uneven bottom, at fifteen fathoms depth. This bottom differed
entirely from the one I had visited on my first excursion under the waters of the Pacific Ocean.
Here, there was no fine sand, no submarine prairies, no sea-forest. I immediately recognised
that marvellous region in which, on that day, the Captain did the honours to us.  It was the
coral kingdom.

The light produced a thousand charming varieties, playing in the midst of the branches that
were so vividly coloured.  I seemed to see the membraneous and cylindrical tubes tremble beneath
the undulation of the waters.  I was tempted to gather their fresh petals, ornamented with
delicate tentacles, some just blown, the others budding, while a small fish, swimming swiftly,
touched them slightly, like flights of birds. But if my hand approached these living flowers,
these animated, sensitive plants, the whole colony took alarm.  The white petals re-entered
their red cases, the flowers faded as I looked, and the bush changed into a block of stony knobs.

Chance had thrown me just by the most precious specimens of the zoophyte.  This coral was more
valuable than that found in the Mediterranean, on the coasts of France, Italy and Barbary.
Its tints justified the poetical names of "Flower of Blood," and "Froth of Blood," that trade
has given to its most beautiful productions.  Coral is sold for L20 per ounce; and in this
place the watery beds would make the fortunes of a company of coral-divers. This precious matter,
often confused with other polypi, formed then the inextricable plots called "macciota," and
on which I noticed several beautiful specimens of pink coral.

But soon the bushes contract, and the arborisations increase. Real petrified thickets, long
joints of fantastic architecture, were disclosed before us. Captain Nemo placed himself under
a dark gallery, where by a slight declivity we reached a depth of a hundred yards. The light
from our lamps produced sometimes magical effects, following the rough outlines of the natural
arches and pendants disposed like lustres, that were tipped with points of fire.

At last, after walking two hours, we had attained a depth of about three hundred yards, that
is to say, the extreme limit on which coral begins to form.  But there was no isolated bush,
nor modest brushwood, at the bottom of lofty trees.  It was an immense forest of large mineral
vegetations, enormous petrified trees, united by garlands of elegant sea-bindweed, all adorned
with clouds and reflections.  We passed freely under their high branches, lost in the shade
of the waves.

Captain Nemo had stopped.  I and my companions halted, and, turning round, I saw his men were
forming a semi-circle round their chief. Watching attentively, I observed that four of them
carried on their shoulders an object of an oblong shape.

We occupied, in this place, the centre of a vast glade surrounded by the lofty foliage of the
submarine forest.  Our lamps threw over this place a sort of clear twilight that singularly
elongated the shadows on the ground.  At the end of the glade the darkness increased, and was
only relieved by little sparks reflected by the points of coral.

Ned Land and Conseil were near me.  We watched, and I thought I was going to witness a strange
scene.  On observing the ground, I saw that it was raised in certain places by slight excrescences
encrusted with limy deposits, and disposed with a regularity that betrayed the hand of man.

In the midst of the glade, on a pedestal of rocks roughly piled up, stood a cross of coral
that extended its long arms that one might have thought were made of petrified blood.  Upon
a sign from Captain Nemo one of the men advanced; and at some feet from the cross he began
to dig a hole with a pickaxe that he took from his belt.  I understood all!  This glade was
a cemetery, this hole a tomb, this oblong object the body of the man who had died in the night!
The Captain and his men had come to bury their companion in this general resting-place, at
the bottom of this inaccessible ocean!

The grave was being dug slowly; the fish fled on all sides while their retreat was being thus
disturbed; I heard the strokes of the pickaxe, which sparkled when it hit upon some flint lost
at the bottom of the waters.  The hole was soon large and deep enough to receive the body.
Then the bearers approached; the body, enveloped in a tissue of white linen, was lowered into
the damp grave.  Captain Nemo, with his arms crossed on his breast, and all the friends of
him who had loved them, knelt in prayer.

The grave was then filled in with the rubbish taken from the ground, which formed a slight
mound.  When this was done, Captain Nemo and his men rose; then, approaching the grave, they
knelt again, and all extended their hands in sign of a last adieu.  Then the funeral procession
returned to the Nautilus, passing under the arches of the forest, in the midst of thickets,
along the coral bushes, and still on the ascent.  At last the light of the ship appeared, and
its luminous track guided us to the Nautilus.  At one o'clock we had returned.

As soon as I had changed my clothes I went up on to the platform, and, a prey to conflicting
emotions, I sat down near the binnacle.  Captain Nemo joined me.  I rose and said to him:

"So, as I said he would, this man died in the night?"

"Yes, M. Aronnax."

"And he rests now, near his companions, in the coral cemetery?"

"Yes, forgotten by all else, but not by us.  We dug the grave, and the polypi undertake to
seal our dead for eternity." And, burying his face quickly in his hands, he tried in vain to
suppress a sob.  Then he added:  "Our peaceful cemetery is there, some hundred feet below the
surface of the waves."

"Your dead sleep quietly, at least, Captain, out of the reach of sharks."

"Yes, sir, of sharks and men," gravely replied the Captain.

PART TWO

CHAPTER I

THE INDIAN OCEAN

We now come to the second part of our journey under the sea.  The first ended with the moving
scene in the coral cemetery which left such a deep impression on my mind.  Thus, in the midst
of this great sea, Captain Nemo's life was passing, even to his grave, which he had prepared
in one of its deepest abysses.  There, not one of the ocean's monsters could trouble the last
sleep of the crew of the Nautilus, of those friends riveted to each other in death as in life.
"Nor any man, either," had added the Captain.  Still the same fierce, implacable defiance towards
human society!

I could no longer content myself with the theory which satisfied Conseil.

That worthy fellow persisted in seeing in the Commander of the Nautilus one of those unknown
servants who return mankind contempt for indifference.  For him, he was a misunderstood genius
who, tired of earth's deceptions, had taken refuge in this inaccessible medium, where he might
follow his instincts freely.  To my mind, this explains but one side of Captain Nemo's character.
Indeed, the mystery of that last night during which we had been chained in prison, the sleep,
and the precaution so violently taken by the Captain of snatching from my eyes the glass I
had raised to sweep the horizon, the mortal wound of the man, due to an unaccountable shock
of the Nautilus, all put me on a new track.  No; Captain Nemo was not satisfied with shunning
man.  His formidable apparatus not only suited his instinct of freedom, but perhaps also the
design of some terrible retaliation.

At this moment nothing is clear to me; I catch but a glimpse of light amidst all the darkness,
and I must confine myself to writing as events shall dictate.

That day, the 24th of January, 1868, at noon, the second officer came to take the altitude
of the sun.  I mounted the platform, lit a cigar, and watched the operation.  It seemed to
me that the man did not understand French; for several times I made remarks in a loud voice,
which must have drawn from him some involuntary sign of attention, if he had understood them;
but he remained undisturbed and dumb.

As he was taking observations with the sextant, one of the sailors of the Nautilus (the strong
man who had accompanied us on our first submarine excursion to the Island of Crespo) came to
clean the glasses of the lantern.  I examined the fittings of the apparatus, the strength of
which was increased a hundredfold by lenticular rings, placed similar to those in a lighthouse,
and which projected their brilliance in a horizontal plane.  The electric lamp was combined
in such a way as to give its most powerful light.  Indeed, it was produced in vacuo, which
insured both its steadiness and its intensity.  This vacuum economised the graphite points
between which the luminous arc was developed--an important point of economy for Captain Nemo,
who could not easily have replaced them; and under these conditions their waste was imperceptible.
When the Nautilus was ready to continue its submarine journey, I went down to the saloon. 
The panel was closed, and the course marked direct west.

We were furrowing the waters of the Indian Ocean, a vast liquid plain, with a surface of 1,200,000,000
of acres, and whose waters are so clear and transparent that any one leaning over them would
turn giddy.  The Nautilus usually floated between fifty and a hundred fathoms deep.  We went
on so for some days.  To anyone but myself, who had a great love for the sea, the hours would
have seemed long and monotonous; but the daily walks on the platform, when I steeped myself
in the reviving air of the ocean, the sight of the rich waters through the windows of the saloon,
the books in the library, the compiling of my memoirs, took up all my time, and left me not
a moment of ennui or weariness.

For some days we saw a great number of aquatic birds, sea-mews or gulls.  Some were cleverly
killed and, prepared in a certain way, made very acceptable water-game. Amongst large-winged
birds, carried a long distance from all lands and resting upon the waves from the fatigue of
their flight, I saw some magnificent albatrosses, uttering discordant cries like the braying
of an ass, and birds belonging to the family of the long-wings.

As to the fish, they always provoked our admiration when we surprised the secrets of their
aquatic life through the open panels.  I saw many kinds which I never before had a chance of
observing.

I shall notice chiefly ostracions peculiar to the Red Sea, the Indian Ocean, and that part
which washes the coast of tropical America. These fishes, like the tortoise, the armadillo,
the sea-hedgehog, and the Crustacea, are protected by a breastplate which is neither chalky
nor stony, but real bone. In some it takes the form of a solid triangle, in others of a solid
quadrangle. Amongst the triangular I saw some an inch and a half in length, with wholesome
flesh and a delicious flavour; they are brown at the tail, and yellow at the fins, and I recommend
their introduction into fresh water, to which a certain number of sea-fish easily accustom
themselves. I would also mention quadrangular ostracions, having on the back four large tubercles;
some dotted over with white spots on the lower part of the body, and which may be tamed like
birds; trigons provided with spikes formed by the lengthening of their bony shell, and which,
from their strange gruntings, are called "seapigs"; also dromedaries with large humps in the
shape of a cone, whose flesh is very tough and leathery.

I now borrow from the daily notes of Master Conseil. "Certain fish of the genus petrodon peculiar
to those seas, with red backs and white chests, which are distinguished by three rows of longitudinal
filaments; and some electrical, seven inches long, decked in the liveliest colours.  Then,
as specimens of other kinds, some ovoides, resembling an egg of a dark brown colour, marked
with white bands, and without tails; diodons, real sea-porcupines, furnished with spikes, and
capable of swelling in such a way as to look like cushions bristling with darts; hippocampi,
common to every ocean; some pegasi with lengthened snouts, which their pectoral fins, being
much elongated and formed in the shape of wings, allow, if not to fly, at least to shoot into
the air; pigeon spatulae, with tails covered with many rings of shell; macrognathi with long
jaws, an excellent fish, nine inches long, and bright with most agreeable colours; pale-coloured
calliomores, with rugged heads; and plenty of chaetpdons, with long and tubular muzzles, which
kill insects by shooting them, as from an air-gun, with a single drop of water. These we may
call the flycatchers of the seas.

"In the eighty-ninth genus of fishes, classed by Lacepede, belonging to the second lower class
of bony, characterised by opercules and bronchial membranes, I remarked the scorpaena, the
head of which is furnished with spikes, and which has but one dorsal fin; these creatures are
covered, or not, with little shells, according to the sub-class to which they belong. The second
sub-class gives us specimens of didactyles fourteen or fifteen inches in length, with yellow
rays, and heads of a most fantastic appearance. As to the first sub-class, it gives several
specimens of that singular looking fish appropriately called a 'seafrog,' with large head,
sometimes pierced with holes, sometimes swollen with protuberances, bristling with spikes,
and covered with tubercles; it has irregular and hideous horns; its body and tail are covered
with callosities; its sting makes a dangerous wound; it is both repugnant and horrible to look at."

From the 21st to the 23rd of January the Nautilus went at the rate of two hundred and fifty
leagues in twenty-four hours, being five hundred and forty miles, or twenty-two miles an hour.
If we recognised so many different varieties of fish, it was because, attracted by the electric
light, they tried to follow us; the greater part, however, were soon distanced by our speed,
though some kept their place in the waters of the Nautilus for a time.  The morning of the
24th, in 12° 5' S. lat., and 94° 33' long., we observed Keeling Island, a coral formation,
planted with magnificent cocos, and which had been visited by Mr. Darwin and Captain Fitzroy.
The Nautilus skirted the shores of this desert island for a little distance.  Its nets brought
up numerous specimens of polypi and curious shells of mollusca.  Some precious productions
of the species of delphinulae enriched the treasures of Captain Nemo, to which I added an astraea
punctifera, a kind of parasite polypus often found fixed to a shell.

Soon Keeling Island disappeared from the horizon, and our course was directed to the north-west
in the direction of the Indian Peninsula.

From Keeling Island our course was slower and more variable, often taking us into great depths.
Several times they made use of the inclined planes, which certain internal levers placed obliquely
to the waterline.  In that way we went about two miles, but without ever obtaining the greatest
depths of the Indian Sea, which soundings of seven thousand fathoms have never reached.  As
to the temperature of the lower strata, the thermometer invariably indicated 4° above zero.
I only observed that in the upper regions the water was always colder in the high levels than
at the surface of the sea.

On the 25th of January the ocean was entirely deserted; the Nautilus passed the day on the
surface, beating the waves with its powerful screw and making them rebound to a great height.
Who under such circumstances would not have taken it for a gigantic cetacean?  Three parts
of this day I spent on the platform.  I watched the sea.  Nothing on the horizon, till about
four o'clock a steamer running west on our counter.  Her masts were visible for an instant,
but she could not see the Nautilus, being too low in the water.  I fancied this steamboat belonged
to the P.O. Company, which runs from Ceylon to Sydney, touching at King George's Point and
Melbourne.

At five o'clock in the evening, before that fleeting twilight which binds night to day in tropical
zones, Conseil and I were astonished by a curious spectacle.

It was a shoal of argonauts travelling along on the surface of the ocean.  We could count several
hundreds.  They belonged to the tubercle kind which are peculiar to the Indian seas.

These graceful molluscs moved backwards by means of their locomotive tube, through which they
propelled the water already drawn in.  Of their eight tentacles, six were elongated, and stretched
out floating on the water, whilst the other two, rolled up flat, were spread to the wing like
a light sail.  I saw their spiral-shaped and fluted shells, which Cuvier justly compares to
an elegant skiff.  A boat indeed!  It bears the creature which secretes it without its adhering
to it.

For nearly an hour the Nautilus floated in the midst of this shoal of molluscs.  Then I know
not what sudden fright they took.  But as if at a signal every sail was furled, the arms folded,
the body drawn in, the shells turned over, changing their centre of gravity, and the whole
fleet disappeared under the waves.  Never did the ships of a squadron manoeuvre with more unity.

At that moment night fell suddenly, and the reeds, scarcely raised by the breeze, lay peaceably
under the sides of the Nautilus.

The next day, 26th of January, we cut the equator at the eighty-second meridian and entered
the northern hemisphere.  During the day a formidable troop of sharks accompanied us, terrible
creatures, which multiply in these seas and make them very dangerous.  They were "cestracio
philippi" sharks, with brown backs and whitish bellies, armed with eleven rows of teeth--eyed
sharks--their throat being marked with a large black spot surrounded with white like an eye.
There were also some Isabella sharks, with rounded snouts marked with dark spots. These powerful
creatures often hurled themselves at the windows of the saloon with such violence as to make
us feel very insecure.  At such times Ned Land was no longer master of himself.  He wanted
to go to the surface and harpoon the monsters, particularly certain smooth-hound sharks, whose
mouth is studded with teeth like a mosaic; and large tiger-sharks nearly six yards long, the
last named of which seemed to excite him more particularly.  But the Nautilus, accelerating
her speed, easily left the most rapid of them behind.

The 27th of January, at the entrance of the vast Bay of Bengal, we met repeatedly a forbidding
spectacle, dead bodies floating on the surface of the water.  They were the dead of the Indian
villages, carried by the Ganges to the level of the sea, and which the vultures, the only undertakers
of the country, had not been able to devour.  But the sharks did not fail to help them at their
funeral work.

About seven o'clock in the evening, the Nautilus, half-immersed, was sailing in a sea of milk.
At first sight the ocean seemed lactified. Was it the effect of the lunar rays?  No; for the
moon, scarcely two days old, was still lying hidden under the horizon in the rays of the sun.
The whole sky, though lit by the sidereal rays, seemed black by contrast with the whiteness
of the waters.

Conseil could not believe his eyes, and questioned me as to the cause of this strange phenomenon.
Happily I was able to answer him.

"It is called a milk sea," I explained.  "A large extent of white wavelets often to be seen
on the coasts of Amboyna, and in these parts of the sea."

"But, sir," said Conseil, "can you tell me what causes such an effect? for I suppose the water
is not really turned into milk."

"No, my boy; and the whiteness which surprises you is caused only by the presence of myriads
of infusoria, a sort of luminous little worm, gelatinous and without colour, of the thickness
of a hair, and whose length is not more than seven-thousandths of an inch.  These insects adhere
to one another sometimes for several leagues."

"Several leagues!" exclaimed Conseil.

"Yes, my boy; and you need not try to compute the number of these infusoria.  You will not
be able, for, if I am not mistaken, ships have floated on these milk seas for more than forty
miles."

Towards midnight the sea suddenly resumed its usual colour; but behind us, even to the limits
of the horizon, the sky reflected the whitened waves, and for a long time seemed impregnated
with the vague glimmerings of an aurora borealis.

CHAPTER II

A NOVEL PROPOSAL OF CAPTAIN NEMO'S

On the 28th of February, when at noon the Nautilus came to the surface of the sea, in 9° 4'
N. lat., there was land in sight about eight miles to westward.  The first thing I noticed
was a range of mountains about two thousand feet high, the shapes of which were most capricious.
On taking the bearings, I knew that we were nearing the island of Ceylon, the pearl which hangs
from the lobe of the Indian Peninsula.

Captain Nemo and his second appeared at this moment.  The Captain glanced at the map.  Then
turning to me, said:

"The Island of Ceylon, noted for its pearl-fisheries. Would you like to visit one of them,
M. Aronnax?"

"Certainly, Captain."

"Well, the thing is easy.  Though, if we see the fisheries, we shall not see the fishermen.
The annual exportation has not yet begun. Never mind, I will give orders to make for the Gulf
of Manaar, where we shall arrive in the night."

The Captain said something to his second, who immediately went out. Soon the Nautilus returned
to her native element, and the manometer showed that she was about thirty feet deep.

"Well, sir," said Captain Nemo, "you and your companions shall visit the Bank of Manaar, and
if by chance some fisherman should be there, we shall see him at work."

"Agreed, Captain!"

"By the bye, M. Aronnax you are not afraid of sharks?"

"Sharks!" exclaimed I.

This question seemed a very hard one.

"Well?" continued Captain Nemo.

"I admit, Captain, that I am not yet very familiar with that kind of fish."

"We are accustomed to them," replied Captain Nemo, "and in time you will be too.  However,
we shall be armed, and on the road we may be able to hunt some of the tribe.  It is interesting.
So, till to-morrow, sir, and early."

This said in a careless tone, Captain Nemo left the saloon.  Now, if you were invited to hunt
the bear in the mountains of Switzerland, what would you say?

"Very well! to-morrow we will go and hunt the bear." If you were asked to hunt the lion in
the plains of Atlas, or the tiger in the Indian jungles, what would you say?

"Ha! ha! it seems we are going to hunt the tiger or the lion!" But when you are invited to
hunt the shark in its natural element, you would perhaps reflect before accepting the invitation.
As for myself, I passed my hand over my forehead, on which stood large drops of cold perspiration.
"Let us reflect," said I, "and take our time.  Hunting otters in submarine forests, as we did
in the Island of Crespo, will pass; but going up and down at the bottom of the sea, where one
is almost certain to meet sharks, is quite another thing!  I know well that in certain countries,
particularly in the Andaman Islands, the negroes never hesitate to attack them with a dagger
in one hand and a running noose in the other; but I also know that few who affront those creatures
ever return alive.  However, I am not a negro, and if I were I think a little hesitation in
this case would not be ill-timed."

At this moment Conseil and the Canadian entered, quite composed, and even joyous.  They knew
not what awaited them.

"Faith, sir," said Ned Land, "your Captain Nemo--the devil take him!--has just made us a very
pleasant offer."

"Ah!" said I, "you know?"

"If agreeable to you, sir," interrupted Conseil, "the commander of the Nautilus has invited
us to visit the magnificent Ceylon fisheries to-morrow, in your company; he did it kindly,
and behaved like a real gentleman."

"He said nothing more?"

"Nothing more, sir, except that he had already spoken to you of this little walk."

"Sir," said Conseil, "would you give us some details of the pearl fishery?"

"As to the fishing itself," I asked, "or the incidents, which?"

"On the fishing," replied the Canadian; "before entering upon the ground, it is as well to
know something about it."

"Very well; sit down, my friends, and I will teach you."

Ned and Conseil seated themselves on an ottoman, and the first thing the Canadian asked was:

"Sir, what is a pearl?"

"My worthy Ned," I answered, "to the poet, a pearl is a tear of the sea; to the Orientals,
it is a drop of dew solidified; to the ladies, it is a jewel of an oblong shape, of a brilliancy
of mother-of-pearl substance, which they wear on their fingers, their necks, or their ears;
for the chemist it is a mixture of phosphate and carbonate of lime, with a little gelatine;
and lastly, for naturalists, it is simply a morbid secretion of the organ that produces the
mother-of-pearl amongst certain bivalves."

"Branch of molluscs," said Conseil.

"Precisely so, my learned Conseil; and, amongst these testacea the earshell, the tridacnae,
the turbots, in a word, all those which secrete mother-of-pearl, that is, the blue, bluish,
violet, or white substance which lines the interior of their shells, are capable of producing
pearls."

"Mussels too?" asked the Canadian.

"Yes, mussels of certain waters in Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Saxony, Bohemia, and France."

"Good!  For the future I shall pay attention," replied the Canadian.

"But," I continued, "the particular mollusc which secretes the pearl is the pearl-oyster, the
meleagrina margaritiferct, that precious pintadine. The pearl is nothing but a nacreous formation,
deposited in a globular form, either adhering to the oyster shell, or buried in the folds of
the creature. On the shell it is fast; in the flesh it is loose; but always has for a kernel
a small hard substance, may be a barren egg, may be a grain of sand, around which the pearly
matter deposits itself year after year successively, and by thin concentric layers."

"Are many pearls found in the same oyster?" asked Conseil.

"Yes, my boy.  Some are a perfect casket.  One oyster has been mentioned, though I allow myself
to doubt it, as having contained no less than a hundred and fifty sharks."

"A hundred and fifty sharks!" exclaimed Ned Land.

"Did I say sharks?" said I hurriedly.  "I meant to say a hundred and fifty pearls.  Sharks
would not be sense."

"Certainly not," said Conseil; "but will you tell us now by what means they extract these pearls?"

"They proceed in various ways.  When they adhere to the shell, the fishermen often pull them
off with pincers; but the most common way is to lay the oysters on mats of the seaweed which
covers the banks.  Thus they die in the open air; and at the end of ten days they are in a
forward state of decomposition.  They are then plunged into large reservoirs of sea-water;
then they are opened and washed."

"The price of these pearls varies according to their size?" asked Conseil.

"Not only according to their size," I answered, "but also according to their shape, their water
(that is, their colour), and their lustre: that is, that bright and diapered sparkle which
makes them so charming to the eye.  The most beautiful are called virgin pearls, or paragons.
They are formed alone in the tissue of the mollusc, are white, often opaque, and sometimes
have the transparency of an opal; they are generally round or oval.  The round are made into
bracelets, the oval into pendants, and, being more precious, are sold singly.  Those adhering
to the shell of the oyster are more irregular in shape, and are sold by weight.  Lastly, in
a lower order are classed those small pearls known under the name of seed-pearls; they are
sold by measure, and are especially used in embroidery for church ornaments."

"But," said Conseil, "is this pearl-fishery dangerous?"

"No," I answered, quickly; "particularly if certain precautions are taken."

"What does one risk in such a calling?" said Ned Land, "the swallowing of some mouthfuls of
sea-water?"

"As you say, Ned.  By the bye," said I, trying to take Captain Nemo's careless tone, "are you
afraid of sharks, brave Ned?"

"I!" replied the Canadian; "a harpooner by profession?  It is my trade to make light of them."

"But," said I, "it is not a question of fishing for them with an iron-swivel, hoisting them
into the vessel, cutting off their tails with a blow of a chopper, ripping them up, and throwing
their heart into the sea!"

"Then, it is a question of----"

"Precisely."

"In the water?"

"In the water."

"Faith, with a good harpoon!  You know, sir, these sharks are ill-fashioned beasts.  They turn
on their bellies to seize you, and in that time----"

Ned Land had a way of saying "seize" which made my blood run cold.

"Well, and you, Conseil, what do you think of sharks?"

"Me!" said Conseil.  "I will be frank, sir."

"So much the better," thought I.

"If you, sir, mean to face the sharks, I do not see why your faithful servant should not face
them with you."

CHAPTER III

A PEARL OF TEN MILLIONS

The next morning at four o'clock I was awakened by the steward whom Captain Nemo had placed
at my service.  I rose hurriedly, dressed, and went into the saloon.

Captain Nemo was awaiting me.

"M. Aronnax," said he, "are you ready to start?"

"I am ready."

"Then please to follow me."

"And my companions, Captain?"

"They have been told and are waiting."

"Are we not to put on our diver's dresses?" asked I.

"Not yet.  I have not allowed the Nautilus to come too near this coast, and we are some distance
from the Manaar Bank; but the boat is ready, and will take us to the exact point of disembarking,
which will save us a long way.  It carries our diving apparatus, which we will put on when
we begin our submarine journey."

Captain Nemo conducted me to the central staircase, which led on the platform.  Ned and Conseil
were already there, delighted at the idea of the "pleasure party" which was preparing.  Five
sailors from the Nautilus, with their oars, waited in the boat, which had been made fast against
the side.

The night was still dark.  Layers of clouds covered the sky, allowing but few stars to be seen.
I looked on the side where the land lay, and saw nothing but a dark line enclosing three parts
of the horizon, from south-west to north west.  The Nautilus, having returned during the night
up the western coast of Ceylon, was now west of the bay, or rather gulf, formed by the mainland
and the Island of Manaar.  There, under the dark waters, stretched the pintadine bank, an inexhaustible
field of pearls, the length of which is more than twenty miles.

Captain Nemo, Ned Land, Conseil, and I took our places in the stern of the boat.  The master
went to the tiller; his four companions leaned on their oars, the painter was cast off, and
we sheered off.

The boat went towards the south; the oarsmen did not hurry.  I noticed that their strokes,
strong in the water, only followed each other every ten seconds, according to the method generally
adopted in the navy. Whilst the craft was running by its own velocity, the liquid drops struck
the dark depths of the waves crisply like spats of melted lead. A little billow, spreading
wide, gave a slight roll to the boat, and some samphire reeds flapped before it.

We were silent.  What was Captain Nemo thinking of?  Perhaps of the land he was approaching,
and which he found too near to him, contrary to the Canadian's opinion, who thought it too
far off.  As to Conseil, he was merely there from curiosity.

About half-past five the first tints on the horizon showed the upper line of coast more distinctly.
Flat enough in the east, it rose a little to the south.  Five miles still lay between us, and
it was indistinct owing to the mist on the water.  At six o'clock it became suddenly daylight,
with that rapidity peculiar to tropical regions, which know neither dawn nor twilight.  The
solar rays pierced the curtain of clouds, piled up on the eastern horizon, and the radiant
orb rose rapidly.  I saw land distinctly, with a few trees scattered here and there.  The boat
neared Manaar Island, which was rounded to the south.  Captain Nemo rose from his seat and
watched the sea.

At a sign from him the anchor was dropped, but the chain scarcely ran, for it was little more
than a yard deep, and this spot was one of the highest points of the bank of pintadines.

"Here we are, M. Aronnax," said Captain Nemo.  "You see that enclosed bay?  Here, in a month
will be assembled the numerous fishing boats of the exporters, and these are the waters their
divers will ransack so boldly.  Happily, this bay is well situated for that kind of fishing.
It is sheltered from the strongest winds; the sea is never very rough here, which makes it
favourable for the diver's work.  We will now put on our dresses, and begin our walk."

I did not answer, and, while watching the suspected waves, began with the help of the sailors
to put on my heavy sea-dress. Captain Nemo and my companions were also dressing.  None of the
Nautilus men were to accompany us on this new excursion.

Soon we were enveloped to the throat in india-rubber clothing; the air apparatus fixed to our
backs by braces.  As to the Ruhmkorff apparatus, there was no necessity for it.  Before putting
my head into the copper cap, I had asked the question of the Captain.

"They would be useless," he replied.  "We are going to no great depth, and the solar rays will
be enough to light our walk.  Besides, it would not be prudent to carry the electric light
in these waters; its brilliancy might attract some of the dangerous inhabitants of the coast
most inopportunely."

As Captain Nemo pronounced these words, I turned to Conseil and Ned Land.  But my two friends
had already encased their heads in the metal cap, and they could neither hear nor answer.

One last question remained to ask of Captain Nemo.

"And our arms?" asked I; "our guns?"

"Guns!  What for?  Do not mountaineers attack the bear with a dagger in their hand, and is
not steel surer than lead?  Here is a strong blade; put it in your belt, and we start."

I looked at my companions; they were armed like us, and, more than that, Ned Land was brandishing
an enormous harpoon, which he had placed in the boat before leaving the Nautilus.

Then, following the Captain's example, I allowed myself to be dressed in the heavy copper helmet,
and our reservoirs of air were at once in activity.  An instant after we were landed, one after
the other, in about two yards of water upon an even sand.  Captain Nemo made a sign with his
hand, and we followed him by a gentle declivity till we disappeared under the waves.

Over our feet, like coveys of snipe in a bog, rose shoals of fish, of the genus monoptera,
which have no other fins but their tail. I recognized the Javanese, a real serpent two and
a half feet long, of a livid colour underneath, and which might easily be mistaken for a conger
eel if it were not for the golden stripes on its side. In the genus stromateus, whose bodies
are very flat and oval, I saw some of the most brilliant colours, carrying their dorsal fin
like a scythe; an excellent eating fish, which, dried and pickled, is known by the name of
Karawade; then some tranquebars, belonging to the genus apsiphoroides, whose body is covered
with a shell cuirass of eight longitudinal plates.

The heightening sun lit the mass of waters more and more. The soil changed by degrees. To the
fine sand succeeded a perfect causeway of boulders, covered with a carpet of molluscs and zoophytes.
Amongst the specimens of these branches I noticed some placenae, with thin unequal shells,
a kind of ostracion peculiar to the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean; some orange lucinae with
rounded shells; rockfish three feet and a half long, which raised themselves under the waves
like hands ready to seize one. There were also some panopyres, slightly luminous; and lastly,
some oculines, like magnificent fans, forming one of the richest vegetations of these seas.

In the midst of these living plants, and under the arbours of the hydrophytes, were layers
of clumsy articulates, particularly some raninae, whose carapace formed a slightly rounded
triangle; and some horrible looking parthenopes.

At about seven o'clock we found ourselves at last surveying the oyster-banks on which the pearl-oysters
are reproduced by millions.

Captain Nemo pointed with his hand to the enormous heap of oysters; and I could well understand
that this mine was inexhaustible, for Nature's creative power is far beyond man's instinct
of destruction.  Ned Land, faithful to his instinct, hastened to fill a net which he carried
by his side with some of the finest specimens.  But we could not stop.  We must follow the
Captain, who seemed to guide him self by paths known only to himself.  The ground was sensibly
rising, and sometimes, on holding up my arm, it was above the surface of the sea.  Then the
level of the bank would sink capriciously.  Often we rounded high rocks scarped into pyramids.
In their dark fractures huge crustacea, perched upon their high claws like some war-machine,
watched us with fixed eyes, and under our feet crawled various kinds of annelides.

At this moment there opened before us a large grotto dug in a picturesque heap of rocks and
carpeted with all the thick warp of the submarine flora.  At first it seemed very dark to me.
The solar rays seemed to be extinguished by successive gradations, until its vague transparency
became nothing more than drowned light.  Captain Nemo entered; we followed.  My eyes soon accustomed
themselves to this relative state of darkness.  I could distinguish the arches springing capriciously
from natural pillars, standing broad upon their granite base, like the heavy columns of Tuscan
architecture.  Why had our incomprehensible guide led us to the bottom of this submarine crypt?
I was soon to know.  After descending a rather sharp declivity, our feet trod the bottom of
a kind of circular pit.  There Captain Nemo stopped, and with his hand indicated an object
I had not yet perceived.  It was an oyster of extraordinary dimensions, a gigantic tridacne,
a goblet which could have contained a whole lake of holy-water, a basin the breadth of which
was more than two yards and a half, and consequently larger than that ornamenting the saloon
of the Nautilus.  I approached this extraordinary mollusc.  It adhered by its filaments to
a table of granite, and there, isolated, it developed itself in the calm waters of the grotto.
I estimated the weight of this tridacne at 600 lb.  Such an oyster would contain 30 lb. of
meat; and one must have the stomach of a Gargantua to demolish some dozens of them.

Captain Nemo was evidently acquainted with the existence of this bivalve, and seemed to have
a particular motive in verifying the actual state of this tridacne.  The shells were a little
open; the Captain came near and put his dagger between to prevent them from closing; then with
his hand he raised the membrane with its fringed edges, which formed a cloak for the creature.
There, between the folded plaits, I saw a loose pearl, whose size equalled that of a coco-nut.
Its globular shape, perfect clearness, and admirable lustre made it altogether a jewel of inestimable
value.  Carried away by my curiosity, I stretched out my hand to seize it, weigh it, and touch
it; but the Captain stopped me, made a sign of refusal, and quickly withdrew his dagger, and
the two shells closed suddenly.  I then understood Captain Nemo's intention.  In leaving this
pearl hidden in the mantle of the tridacne he was allowing it to grow slowly.  Each year the
secretions of the mollusc would add new concentric circles.  I estimated its value at L500,000
at least.

After ten minutes Captain Nemo stopped suddenly.  I thought he had halted previously to returning.
No; by a gesture he bade us crouch beside him in a deep fracture of the rock, his hand pointed
to one part of the liquid mass, which I watched attentively.

About five yards from me a shadow appeared, and sank to the ground. The disquieting idea of
sharks shot through my mind, but I was mistaken; and once again it was not a monster of the
ocean that we had anything to do with.

It was a man, a living man, an Indian, a fisherman, a poor devil who, I suppose, had come to
glean before the harvest.  I could see the bottom of his canoe anchored some feet above his
head.  He dived and went up successively.  A stone held between his feet, cut in the shape
of a sugar loaf, whilst a rope fastened him to his boat, helped him to descend more rapidly.
This was all his apparatus.  Reaching the bottom, about five yards deep, he went on his knees
and filled his bag with oysters picked up at random.  Then he went up, emptied it, pulled up
his stone, and began the operation once more, which lasted thirty seconds.

The diver did not see us.  The shadow of the rock hid us from sight. And how should this poor
Indian ever dream that men, beings like himself, should be there under the water watching his
movements and losing no detail of the fishing?  Several times he went up in this way, and dived
again.  He did not carry away more than ten at each plunge, for he was obliged to pull them
from the bank to which they adhered by means of their strong byssus.  And how many of those
oysters for which he risked his life had no pearl in them!  I watched him closely; his manoeuvres
were regular; and for the space of half an hour no danger appeared to threaten him.

I was beginning to accustom myself to the sight of this interesting fishing, when suddenly,
as the Indian was on the ground, I saw him make a gesture of terror, rise, and make a spring
to return to the surface of the sea.

I understood his dread.  A gigantic shadow appeared just above the unfortunate diver.  It was
a shark of enormous size advancing diagonally, his eyes on fire, and his jaws open.  I was
mute with horror and unable to move.

The voracious creature shot towards the Indian, who threw himself on one side to avoid the
shark's fins; but not its tail, for it struck his chest and stretched him on the ground.

This scene lasted but a few seconds:  the shark returned, and, turning on his back, prepared
himself for cutting the Indian in two, when I saw Captain Nemo rise suddenly, and then, dagger
in hand, walk straight to the monster, ready to fight face to face with him.  The very moment
the shark was going to snap the unhappy fisherman in two, he perceived his new adversary, and,
turning over, made straight towards him.

I can still see Captain Nemo's position.  Holding himself well together, he waited for the
shark with admirable coolness; and, when it rushed at him, threw himself on one side with wonderful
quickness, avoiding the shock, and burying his dagger deep into its side.  But it was not all
over.  A terrible combat ensued.

The shark had seemed to roar, if I might say so.  The blood rushed in torrents from its wound.
The sea was dyed red, and through the opaque liquid I could distinguish nothing more.  Nothing
more until the moment when, like lightning, I saw the undaunted Captain hanging on to one of
the creature's fins, struggling, as it were, hand to hand with the monster, and dealing successive
blows at his enemy, yet still unable to give a decisive one.

The shark's struggles agitated the water with such fury that the rocking threatened to upset me.

I wanted to go to the Captain's assistance, but, nailed to the spot with horror, I could not stir.

I saw the haggard eye; I saw the different phases of the fight.  The Captain fell to the earth,
upset by the enormous mass which leant upon him.  The shark's jaws opened wide, like a pair
of factory shears, and it would have been all over with the Captain; but, quick as thought,
harpoon in hand, Ned Land rushed towards the shark and struck it with its sharp point.

The waves were impregnated with a mass of blood.  They rocked under the shark's movements,
which beat them with indescribable fury.  Ned Land had not missed his aim.  It was the monster's
death-rattle.  Struck to the heart, it struggled in dreadful convulsions, the shock of which
overthrew Conseil.

But Ned Land had disentangled the Captain, who, getting up without any wound, went straight
to the Indian, quickly cut the cord which held him to his stone, took him in his arms, and,
with a sharp blow of his heel, mounted to the surface.

We all three followed in a few seconds, saved by a miracle, and reached the fisherman's boat.

Captain Nemo's first care was to recall the unfortunate man to life again.  I did not think
he could succeed.  I hoped so, for the poor creature's immersion was not long; but the blow
from the shark's tail might have been his death-blow.

Happily, with the Captain's and Conseil's sharp friction, I saw consciousness return by degrees.
He opened his eyes.  What was his surprise, his terror even, at seeing four great copper heads
leaning over him!  And, above all, what must he have thought when Captain Nemo, drawing from
the pocket of his dress a bag of pearls, placed it in his hand!  This munificent charity from
the man of the waters to the poor Cingalese was accepted with a trembling hand.  His wondering
eyes showed that he knew not to what super-human beings he owed both fortune and life.

At a sign from the Captain we regained the bank, and, following the road already traversed,
came in about half an hour to the anchor which held the canoe of the Nautilus to the earth.

Once on board, we each, with the help of the sailors, got rid of the heavy copper helmet.

Captain Nemo's first word was to the Canadian.

"Thank you, Master Land," said he.

"It was in revenge, Captain," replied Ned Land.  "I owed you that."

A ghastly smile passed across the Captain's lips, and that was all.

"To the Nautilus," said he.

The boat flew over the waves.  Some minutes after we met the shark's dead body floating.  By
the black marking of the extremity of its fins, I recognised the terrible melanopteron of the
Indian Seas, of the species of shark so properly called.  It was more than twenty-five feet
long; its enormous mouth occupied one-third of its body.  It was an adult, as was known by
its six rows of teeth placed in an isosceles triangle in the upper jaw.

Whilst I was contemplating this inert mass, a dozen of these voracious beasts appeared round
the boat; and, without noticing us, threw themselves upon the dead body and fought with one
another for the pieces.

At half-past eight we were again on board the Nautilus.  There I reflected on the incidents
which had taken place in our excursion to the Manaar Bank.

Two conclusions I must inevitably draw from it--one bearing upon the unparalleled courage of
Captain Nemo, the other upon his devotion to a human being, a representative of that race from
which he fled beneath the sea.  Whatever he might say, this strange man had not yet succeeded
in entirely crushing his heart.

When I made this observation to him, he answered in a slightly moved tone:

"That Indian, sir, is an inhabitant of an oppressed country; and I am still, and shall be,
to my last breath, one of them!"

CHAPTER IV

THE RED SEA

In the course of the day of the 29th of January, the island of Ceylon disappeared under the
horizon, and the Nautilus, at a speed of twenty miles an hour, slid into the labyrinth of canals
which separate the Maldives from the Laccadives.  It coasted even the Island of Kiltan, a land
originally coraline, discovered by Vasco da Gama in 1499, and one of the nineteen principal
islands of the Laccadive Archipelago, situated between 10° and 14° 30' N. lat., and 69° 50'
72" E. long.

We had made 16,220 miles, or 7,500 (French) leagues from our starting-point in the Japanese Seas.

The next day (30th January), when the Nautilus went to the surface of the ocean there was no
land in sight.  Its course was N.N.E., in the direction of the Sea of Oman, between Arabia
and the Indian Peninsula, which serves as an outlet to the Persian Gulf.  It was evidently
a block without any possible egress.  Where was Captain Nemo taking us to?  I could not say.
This, however, did not satisfy the Canadian, who that day came to me asking where we were going.

"We are going where our Captain's fancy takes us, Master Ned."

"His fancy cannot take us far, then," said the Canadian.  "The Persian Gulf has no outlet:
and, if we do go in, it will not be long before we are out again."

"Very well, then, we will come out again, Master Land; and if, after the Persian Gulf, the
Nautilus would like to visit the Red Sea, the Straits of Bab-el-mandeb are there to give us
entrance."

"I need not tell you, sir," said Ned Land, "that the Red Sea is as much closed as the Gulf,
as the Isthmus of Suez is not yet cut; and, if it was, a boat as mysterious as ours would not
risk itself in a canal cut with sluices.  And again, the Red Sea is not the road to take us
back to Europe."

"But I never said we were going back to Europe."

"What do you suppose, then?"

"I suppose that, after visiting the curious coasts of Arabia and Egypt, the Nautilus will go
down the Indian Ocean again, perhaps cross the Channel of Mozambique, perhaps off the Mascarenhas,
so as to gain the Cape of Good Hope."

"And once at the Cape of Good Hope?" asked the Canadian, with peculiar emphasis.

"Well, we shall penetrate into that Atlantic which we do not yet know. Ah! friend Ned, you
are getting tired of this journey under the sea; you are surfeited with the incessantly varying
spectacle of submarine wonders.  For my part, I shall be sorry to see the end of a voyage which
it is given to so few men to make."

For four days, till the 3rd of February, the Nautilus scoured the Sea of Oman, at various speeds
and at various depths.  It seemed to go at random, as if hesitating as to which road it should
follow, but we never passed the Tropic of Cancer.

In quitting this sea we sighted Muscat for an instant, one of the most important towns of the
country of Oman.  I admired its strange aspect, surrounded by black rocks upon which its white
houses and forts stood in relief.  I saw the rounded domes of its mosques, the elegant points
of its minarets, its fresh and verdant terraces.  But it was only a vision!  The Nautilus soon
sank under the waves of that part of the sea.

We passed along the Arabian coast of Mahrah and Hadramaut, for a distance of six miles, its
undulating line of mountains being occasionally relieved by some ancient ruin.  The 5th of
February we at last entered the Gulf of Aden, a perfect funnel introduced into the neck of
Bab-el-mandeb, through which the Indian waters entered the Red Sea.

The 6th of February, the Nautilus floated in sight of Aden, perched upon a promontory which
a narrow isthmus joins to the mainland, a kind of inaccessible Gibraltar, the fortifications
of which were rebuilt by the English after taking possession in 1839.  I caught a glimpse of
the octagon minarets of this town, which was at one time the richest commercial magazine on
the coast.

I certainly thought that Captain Nemo, arrived at this point, would back out again; but I was
mistaken, for he did no such thing, much to my surprise.

The next day, the 7th of February, we entered the Straits of Bab-el-mandeb, the name of which,
in the Arab tongue, means The Gate of Tears.

To twenty miles in breadth, it is only thirty-two in length.  And for the Nautilus, starting
at full speed, the crossing was scarcely the work of an hour.  But I saw nothing, not even
the Island of Perim, with which the British Government has fortified the position of Aden.
There were too many English or French steamers of the line of Suez to Bombay, Calcutta to Melbourne,
and from Bourbon to the Mauritius, furrowing this narrow passage, for the Nautilus to venture
to show itself.  So it remained prudently below.  At last about noon, we were in the waters
of the Red Sea.

I would not even seek to understand the caprice which had decided Captain Nemo upon entering
the gulf.  But I quite approved of the Nautilus entering it.  Its speed was lessened:  sometimes
it kept on the surface, sometimes it dived to avoid a vessel, and thus I was able to observe
the upper and lower parts of this curious sea.

The 8th of February, from the first dawn of day, Mocha came in sight, now a ruined town, whose
walls would fall at a gunshot, yet which shelters here and there some verdant date-trees; once
an important city, containing six public markets, and twenty-six mosques, and whose walls,
defended by fourteen forts, formed a girdle of two miles in circumference.

The Nautilus then approached the African shore, where the depth of the sea was greater.  There,
between two waters clear as crystal, through the open panels we were allowed to contemplate
the beautiful bushes of brilliant coral and large blocks of rock clothed with a splendid fur
of green variety of sites and landscapes along these sandbanks and algae and fuci.  What an
indescribable spectacle, and what variety of sites and landscapes along these sandbanks and
volcanic islands which bound the Libyan coast!  But where these shrubs appeared in all their
beauty was on the eastern coast, which the Nautilus soon gained.  It was on the coast of Tehama,
for there not only did this display of zoophytes flourish beneath the level of the sea, but
they also formed picturesque interlacings which unfolded themselves about sixty feet above
the surface, more capricious but less highly coloured than those whose freshness was kept up
by the vital power of the waters.

What charming hours I passed thus at the window of the saloon!  What new specimens of submarine
flora and fauna did I admire under the brightness of our electric lantern!

The 9th of February the Nautilus floated in the broadest part of the Red Sea, which is comprised
between Souakin, on the west coast, and Komfidah, on the east coast, with a diameter of ninety
miles.

That day at noon, after the bearings were taken, Captain Nemo mounted the platform, where I
happened to be, and I was determined not to let him go down again without at least pressing
him regarding his ulterior projects.  As soon as he saw me he approached and graciously offered
me a cigar.

"Well, sir, does this Red Sea please you?  Have you sufficiently observed the wonders it covers,
its fishes, its zoophytes, its parterres of sponges, and its forests of coral?  Did you catch
a glimpse of the towns on its borders?"

"Yes, Captain Nemo," I replied; "and the Nautilus is wonderfully fitted for such a study. 
Ah! it is an intelligent boat!"

"Yes, sir, intelligent and invulnerable.  It fears neither the terrible tempests of the Red
Sea, nor its currents, nor its sandbanks."

"Certainly," said I, "this sea is quoted as one of the worst, and in the time of the ancients,
if I am not mistaken, its reputation was detestable."

"Detestable, M. Aronnax.  The Greek and Latin historians do not speak favourably of it, and
Strabo says it is very dangerous during the Etesian winds and in the rainy season.  The Arabian
Edrisi portrays it under the name of the Gulf of Colzoum, and relates that vessels perished
there in great numbers on the sandbanks and that no one would risk sailing in the night.  It
is, he pretends, a sea subject to fearful hurricanes, strewn with inhospitable islands, and
`which offers nothing good either on its surface or in its depths.'"

"One may see," I replied, "that these historians never sailed on board the Nautilus."

"Just so," replied the Captain, smiling; "and in that respect moderns are not more advanced
than the ancients.  It required many ages to find out the mechanical power of steam.  Who knows
if, in another hundred years, we may not see a second Nautilus?  Progress is slow, M. Aronnax."

"It is true," I answered; "your boat is at least a century before its time, perhaps an era.
What a misfortune that the secret of such an invention should die with its inventor!"

Captain Nemo did not reply.  After some minutes' silence he continued:

"You were speaking of the opinions of ancient historians upon the dangerous navigation of the
Red Sea."

"It is true," said I; "but were not their fears exaggerated?"

"Yes and no, M. Aronnax," replied Captain Nemo, who seemed to know the Red Sea by heart.  "That
which is no longer dangerous for a modern vessel, well rigged, strongly built, and master of
its own course, thanks to obedient steam, offered all sorts of perils to the ships of the ancients.
Picture to yourself those first navigators venturing in ships made of planks sewn with the
cords of the palmtree, saturated with the grease of the seadog, and covered with powdered resin!
They had not even instruments wherewith to take their bearings, and they went by guess amongst
currents of which they scarcely knew anything. Under such conditions shipwrecks were, and must
have been, numerous. But in our time, steamers running between Suez and the South Seas have
nothing more to fear from the fury of this gulf, in spite of contrary trade-winds. The captain
and passengers do not prepare for their departure by offering propitiatory sacrifices; and,
on their return, they no longer go ornamented with wreaths and gilt fillets to thank the gods
in the neighbouring temple."

"I agree with you," said I; "and steam seems to have killed all gratitude in the hearts of
sailors.  But, Captain, since you seem to have especially studied this sea, can you tell me
the origin of its name?"

"There exist several explanations on the subject, M. Aronnax.  Would you like to know the opinion
of a chronicler of the fourteenth century?"

"Willingly."

"This fanciful writer pretends that its name was given to it after the passage of the Israelites,
when Pharaoh perished in the waves which closed at the voice of Moses."

"A poet's explanation, Captain Nemo," I replied; "but I cannot content myself with that.  I
ask you for your personal opinion."

"Here it is, M. Aronnax.  According to my idea, we must see in this appellation of the Red
Sea a translation of the Hebrew word `Edom'; and if the ancients gave it that name, it was
on account of the particular colour of its waters."

"But up to this time I have seen nothing but transparent waves and without any particular colour."

"Very likely; but as we advance to the bottom of the gulf, you will see this singular appearance.
I remember seeing the Bay of Tor entirely red, like a sea of blood."

"And you attribute this colour to the presence of a microscopic seaweed?"

"Yes."

"So, Captain Nemo, it is not the first time you have overrun the Red Sea on board the Nautilus?"

"No, sir."

"As you spoke a while ago of the passage of the Israelites and of the catastrophe to the Egyptians,
I will ask whether you have met with the traces under the water of this great historical fact?"

"No, sir; and for a good reason."

"What is it?"

"It is that the spot where Moses and his people passed is now so blocked up with sand that
the camels can barely bathe their legs there. You can well understand that there would not
be water enough for my Nautilus."

"And the spot?"  I asked.

"The spot is situated a little above the Isthmus of Suez, in the arm which formerly made a
deep estuary, when the Red Sea extended to the Salt Lakes.  Now, whether this passage were
miraculous or not, the Israelites, nevertheless, crossed there to reach the Promised Land,
and Pharaoh's army perished precisely on that spot; and I think that excavations made in the
middle of the sand would bring to light a large number of arms and instruments of Egyptian origin."

"That is evident," I replied; "and for the sake of archaeologists let us hope that these excavations
will be made sooner or later, when new towns are established on the isthmus, after the construction
of the Suez Canal; a canal, however, very useless to a vessel like the Nautilus."

"Very likely; but useful to the whole world," said Captain Nemo.  "The ancients well understood
the utility of a communication between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean for their commercial
affairs: but they did not think of digging a canal direct, and took the Nile as an intermediate.
Very probably the canal which united the Nile to the Red Sea was begun by Sesostris, if we
may believe tradition.  One thing is certain, that in the year 615 before Jesus Christ, Necos
undertook the works of an alimentary canal to the waters of the Nile across the plain of Egypt,
looking towards Arabia.  It took four days to go up this canal, and it was so wide that two
triremes could go abreast.  It was carried on by Darius, the son of Hystaspes, and probably
finished by Ptolemy II.  Strabo saw it navigated:  but its decline from the point of departure,
near Bubastes, to the Red Sea was so slight that it was only navigable for a few months in
the year.  This canal answered all commercial purposes to the age of Antonius, when it was
abandoned and blocked up with sand.  Restored by order of the Caliph Omar, it was definitely
destroyed in 761 or 762 by Caliph Al-Mansor, who wished to prevent the arrival of provisions
to Mohammed-ben-Abdallah, who had revolted against him.  During the expedition into Egypt,
your General Bonaparte discovered traces of the works in the Desert of Suez; and, surprised
by the tide, he nearly perished before regaining Hadjaroth, at the very place where Moses had
encamped three thousand years before him."

"Well, Captain, what the ancients dared not undertake, this junction between the two seas,
which will shorten the road from Cadiz to India, M. Lesseps has succeeded in doing; and before
long he will have changed Africa into an immense island."

"Yes, M. Aronnax; you have the right to be proud of your countryman. Such a man brings more
honour to a nation than great captains.  He began, like so many others, with disgust and rebuffs;
but he has triumphed, for he has the genius of will.  And it is sad to think that a work like
that, which ought to have been an international work and which would have sufficed to make
a reign illustrious, should have succeeded by the energy of one man.  All honour to M. Lesseps!"

"Yes! honour to the great citizen," I replied, surprised by the manner in which Captain Nemo
had just spoken.

"Unfortunately," he continued, "I cannot take you through the Suez Canal; but you will be able
to see the long jetty of Port Said after to-morrow, when we shall be in the Mediterranean."

"The Mediterranean!"  I exclaimed.

"Yes, sir; does that astonish you?"

"What astonishes me is to think that we shall be there the day after to-morrow."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, Captain, although by this time I ought to have accustomed myself to be surprised at nothing
since I have been on board your boat."

"But the cause of this surprise?"

"Well! it is the fearful speed you will have to put on the Nautilus, if the day after to-morrow
she is to be in the Mediterranean, having made the round of Africa, and doubled the Cape of
Good Hope!"

"Who told you that she would make the round of Africa and double the Cape of Good Hope, sir?"

"Well, unless the Nautilus sails on dry land, and passes above the isthmus----"

"Or beneath it, M. Aronnax."

"Beneath it?"

"Certainly," replied Captain Nemo quietly.  "A long time ago Nature made under this tongue
of land what man has this day made on its surface."

"What! such a passage exists?"

"Yes; a subterranean passage, which I have named the Arabian Tunnel. It takes us beneath Suez
and opens into the Gulf of Pelusium."

"But this isthmus is composed of nothing but quick sands?"

"To a certain depth.  But at fifty-five yards only there is a solid layer of rock."

"Did you discover this passage by chance?"  I asked more and more surprised.

"Chance and reasoning, sir; and by reasoning even more than by chance. Not only does this passage
exist, but I have profited by it several times.  Without that I should not have ventured this
day into the impassable Red Sea.  I noticed that in the Red Sea and in the Mediterranean there
existed a certain number of fishes of a kind perfectly identical.  Certain of the fact, I asked
myself was it possible that there was no communication between the two seas?  If there was,
the subterranean current must necessarily run from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, from the
sole cause of difference of level. I caught a large number of fishes in the neighbourhood of
Suez.  I passed a copper ring through their tails, and threw them back into the sea.  Some
months later, on the coast of Syria, I caught some of my fish ornamented with the ring.  Thus
the communication between the two was proved.  I then sought for it with my Nautilus; I discovered
it, ventured into it, and before long, sir, you too will have passed through my Arabian tunnel!"

CHAPTER V

THE ARABIAN TUNNEL

That same evening, in 21° 30' N. lat., the Nautilus floated on the surface of the sea, approaching
the Arabian coast.  I saw Djeddah, the most important counting-house of Egypt, Syria, Turkey,
and India.  I distinguished clearly enough its buildings, the vessels anchored at the quays,
and those whose draught of water obliged them to anchor in the roads.  The sun, rather low
on the horizon, struck full on the houses of the town, bringing out their whiteness.  Outside,
some wooden cabins, and some made of reeds, showed the quarter inhabited by the Bedouins. 
Soon Djeddah was shut out from view by the shadows of night, and the Nautilus found herself
under water slightly phosphorescent.

The next day, the 10th of February, we sighted several ships running to windward.  The Nautilus
returned to its submarine navigation; but at noon, when her bearings were taken, the sea being
deserted, she rose again to her waterline.

Accompanied by Ned and Conseil, I seated myself on the platform.  The coast on the eastern
side looked like a mass faintly printed upon a damp fog.

We were leaning on the sides of the pinnace, talking of one thing and another, when Ned Land,
stretching out his hand towards a spot on the sea, said:

"Do you see anything there, sir?"

"No, Ned," I replied; "but I have not your eyes, you know."

"Look well," said Ned, "there, on the starboard beam, about the height of the lantern!  Do
you not see a mass which seems to move?"

"Certainly," said I, after close attention; "I see something like a long black body on the
top of the water."

And certainly before long the black object was not more than a mile from us.  It looked like
a great sandbank deposited in the open sea. It was a gigantic dugong!

Ned Land looked eagerly.  His eyes shone with covetousness at the sight of the animal.  His
hand seemed ready to harpoon it.  One would have thought he was awaiting the moment to throw
himself into the sea and attack it in its element.

At this instant Captain Nemo appeared on the platform.  He saw the dugong, understood the Canadian's
attitude, and, addressing him, said:

"If you held a harpoon just now, Master Land, would it not burn your hand?"

"Just so, sir."

"And you would not be sorry to go back, for one day, to your trade of a fisherman and to add
this cetacean to the list of those you have already killed?"

"I should not, sir."

"Well, you can try."

"Thank you, sir," said Ned Land, his eyes flaming.

"Only," continued the Captain, "I advise you for your own sake not to miss the creature."

"Is the dugong dangerous to attack?"  I asked, in spite of the Canadian's shrug of the shoulders.

"Yes," replied the Captain; "sometimes the animal turns upon its assailants and overturns their
boat.  But for Master Land this danger is not to be feared.  His eye is prompt, his arm sure."

At this moment seven men of the crew, mute and immovable as ever, mounted the platform.  One
carried a harpoon and a line similar to those employed in catching whales.  The pinnace was
lifted from the bridge, pulled from its socket, and let down into the sea.  Six oarsmen took
their seats, and the coxswain went to the tiller.  Ned, Conseil, and I went to the back of
the boat.

"You are not coming, Captain?"  I asked.

"No, sir; but I wish you good sport."

The boat put off, and, lifted by the six rowers, drew rapidly towards the dugong, which floated
about two miles from the Nautilus.

Arrived some cables-length from the cetacean, the speed slackened, and the oars dipped noiselessly
into the quiet waters.  Ned Land, harpoon in hand, stood in the fore part of the boat.  The
harpoon used for striking the whale is generally attached to a very long cord which runs out
rapidly as the wounded creature draws it after him.  But here the cord was not more than ten
fathoms long, and the extremity was attached to a small barrel which, by floating, was to show
the course the dugong took under the water.

I stood and carefully watched the Canadian's adversary.  This dugong, which also bears the
name of the halicore, closely resembles the manatee; its oblong body terminated in a lengthened
tail, and its lateral fins in perfect fingers.  Its difference from the manatee consisted in
its upper jaw, which was armed with two long and pointed teeth which formed on each side diverging
tusks.

This dugong which Ned Land was preparing to attack was of colossal dimensions; it was more
than seven yards long.  It did not move, and seemed to be sleeping on the waves, which circumstance
made it easier to capture.

The boat approached within six yards of the animal.  The oars rested on the rowlocks.  I half
rose.  Ned Land, his body thrown a little back, brandished the harpoon in his experienced hand.

Suddenly a hissing noise was heard, and the dugong disappeared.  The harpoon, although thrown
with great force; had apparently only struck the water.

"Curse it!" exclaimed the Canadian furiously; "I have missed it!"

"No," said I; "the creature is wounded--look at the blood; but your weapon has not stuck in
his body."

"My harpoon! my harpoon!" cried Ned Land.

The sailors rowed on, and the coxswain made for the floating barrel. The harpoon regained,
we followed in pursuit of the animal.

The latter came now and then to the surface to breathe.  Its wound had not weakened it, for
it shot onwards with great rapidity.

The boat, rowed by strong arms, flew on its track.  Several times it approached within some
few yards, and the Canadian was ready to strike, but the dugong made off with a sudden plunge,
and it was impossible to reach it.

Imagine the passion which excited impatient Ned Land!  He hurled at the unfortunate creature
the most energetic expletives in the English tongue.  For my part, I was only vexed to see
the dugong escape all our attacks.

We pursued it without relaxation for an hour, and I began to think it would prove difficult
to capture, when the animal, possessed with the perverse idea of vengeance of which he had
cause to repent, turned upon the pinnace and assailed us in its turn.

This manoeuvre did not escape the Canadian.

"Look out!" he cried.

The coxswain said some words in his outlandish tongue, doubtless warning the men to keep on
their guard.

The dugong came within twenty feet of the boat, stopped, sniffed the air briskly with its large
nostrils (not pierced at the extremity, but in the upper part of its muzzle). Then, taking
a spring, he threw himself upon us.

The pinnace could not avoid the shock, and half upset, shipped at least two tons of water,
which had to be emptied; but, thanks to the coxswain, we caught it sideways, not full front,
so we were not quite overturned.  While Ned Land, clinging to the bows, belaboured the gigantic
animal with blows from his harpoon, the creature's teeth were buried in the gunwale, and it
lifted the whole thing out of the water, as a lion does a roebuck.  We were upset over one
another, and I know not how the adventure would have ended, if the Canadian, still enraged
with the beast, had not struck it to the heart.

I heard its teeth grind on the iron plate, and the dugong disappeared, carrying the harpoon
with him.  But the barrel soon returned to the surface, and shortly after the body of the animal,
turned on its back. The boat came up with it, took it in tow, and made straight for the Nautilus.

It required tackle of enormous strength to hoist the dugong on to the platform.  It weighed
10,000 lb.

The next day, 11th February, the larder of the Nautilus was enriched by some more delicate
game.  A flight of sea-swallows rested on the Nautilus.  It was a species of the Sterna nilotica,
peculiar to Egypt; its beak is black, head grey and pointed, the eye surrounded by white spots,
the back, wings, and tail of a greyish colour, the belly and throat white, and claws red. 
They also took some dozen of Nile ducks, a wild bird of high flavour, its throat and upper
part of the head white with black spots.

About five o'clock in the evening we sighted to the north the Cape of Ras-Mohammed. This cape
forms the extremity of Arabia Petraea, comprised between the Gulf of Suez and the Gulf of Acabah.

The Nautilus penetrated into the Straits of Jubal, which leads to the Gulf of Suez.  I distinctly
saw a high mountain, towering between the two gulfs of Ras-Mohammed. It was Mount Horeb, that
Sinai at the top of which Moses saw God face to face.

At six o'clock the Nautilus, sometimes floating, sometimes immersed, passed some distance from
Tor, situated at the end of the bay, the waters of which seemed tinted with red, an observation
already made by Captain Nemo.  Then night fell in the midst of a heavy silence, sometimes broken
by the cries of the pelican and other night-birds, and the noise of the waves breaking upon
the shore, chafing against the rocks, or the panting of some far-off steamer beating the waters
of the Gulf with its noisy paddles.

From eight to nine o'clock the Nautilus remained some fathoms under the water.  According to
my calculation we must have been very near Suez. Through the panel of the saloon I saw the
bottom of the rocks brilliantly lit up by our electric lamp.  We seemed to be leaving the Straits
behind us more and more.

At a quarter-past nine, the vessel having returned to the surface, I mounted the platform.
Most impatient to pass through Captain Nemo's tunnel, I could not stay in one place, so came
to breathe the fresh night air.

Soon in the shadow I saw a pale light, half discoloured by the fog, shining about a mile from us.

"A floating lighthouse!" said someone near me.

I turned, and saw the Captain.

"It is the floating light of Suez," he continued.  "It will not be long before we gain the
entrance of the tunnel."

"The entrance cannot be easy?"

"No, sir; for that reason I am accustomed to go into the steersman's cage and myself direct
our course.  And now, if you will go down, M. Aronnax, the Nautilus is going under the waves,
and will not return to the surface until we have passed through the Arabian Tunnel."

Captain Nemo led me towards the central staircase; half way down he opened a door, traversed
the upper deck, and landed in the pilot's cage, which it may be remembered rose at the extremity
of the platform. It was a cabin measuring six feet square, very much like that occupied by
the pilot on the steamboats of the Mississippi or Hudson.  In the midst worked a wheel, placed
vertically, and caught to the tiller-rope, which ran to the back of the Nautilus.  Four light-ports
with lenticular glasses, let in a groove in the partition of the cabin, allowed the man at
the wheel to see in all directions.

This cabin was dark; but soon my eyes accustomed themselves to the obscurity, and I perceived
the pilot, a strong man, with his hands resting on the spokes of the wheel.  Outside, the sea
appeared vividly lit up by the lantern, which shed its rays from the back of the cabin to the
other extremity of the platform.

"Now," said Captain Nemo, "let us try to make our passage."

Electric wires connected the pilot's cage with the machinery room, and from there the Captain
could communicate simultaneously to his Nautilus the direction and the speed.  He pressed a
metal knob, and at once the speed of the screw diminished.

I looked in silence at the high straight wall we were running by at this moment, the immovable
base of a massive sandy coast.  We followed it thus for an hour only some few yards off.

Captain Nemo did not take his eye from the knob, suspended by its two concentric circles in
the cabin.  At a simple gesture, the pilot modified the course of the Nautilus every instant.

I had placed myself at the port-scuttle, and saw some magnificent substructures of coral, zoophytes,
seaweed, and fucus, agitating their enormous claws, which stretched out from the fissures of
the rock.

At a quarter-past ten, the Captain himself took the helm.  A large gallery, black and deep,
opened before us.  The Nautilus went boldly into it.  A strange roaring was heard round its
sides.  It was the waters of the Red Sea, which the incline of the tunnel precipitated violently
towards the Mediterranean.  The Nautilus went with the torrent, rapid as an arrow, in spite
of the efforts of the machinery, which, in order to offer more effective resistance, beat the
waves with reversed screw.

On the walls of the narrow passage I could see nothing but brilliant rays, straight lines,
furrows of fire, traced by the great speed, under the brilliant electric light.  My heart beat
fast.

At thirty-five minutes past ten, Captain Nemo quitted the helm, and, turning to me, said:

"The Mediterranean!"

In less than twenty minutes, the Nautilus, carried along by the torrent, had passed through
the Isthmus of Suez.

CHAPTER VI

THE GRECIAN ARCHIPELAGO

The next day, the 12th of February, at the dawn of day, the Nautilus rose to the surface. 
I hastened on to the platform.  Three miles to the south the dim outline of Pelusium was to
be seen.  A torrent had carried us from one sea to another.  About seven o'clock Ned and Conseil
joined me.

"Well, Sir Naturalist," said the Canadian, in a slightly jovial tone, "and the Mediterranean?"

"We are floating on its surface, friend Ned."

"What!" said Conseil, "this very night."

"Yes, this very night; in a few minutes we have passed this impassable isthmus."

"I do not believe it," replied the Canadian.

"Then you are wrong, Master Land," I continued; "this low coast which rounds off to the south
is the Egyptian coast.  And you who have such good eyes, Ned, you can see the jetty of Port
Said stretching into the sea."

The Canadian looked attentively.

"Certainly you are right, sir, and your Captain is a first-rate man. We are in the Mediterranean.
Good!  Now, if you please, let us talk of our own little affair, but so that no one hears us."

I saw what the Canadian wanted, and, in any case, I thought it better to let him talk, as he
wished it; so we all three went and sat down near the lantern, where we were less exposed to
the spray of the blades.

"Now, Ned, we listen; what have you to tell us?"

"What I have to tell you is very simple.  We are in Europe; and before Captain Nemo's caprices
drag us once more to the bottom of the Polar Seas, or lead us into Oceania, I ask to leave
the Nautilus."

I wished in no way to shackle the liberty of my companions, but I certainly felt no desire
to leave Captain Nemo.

Thanks to him, and thanks to his apparatus, I was each day nearer the completion of my submarine
studies; and I was rewriting my book of submarine depths in its very element.  Should I ever
again have such an opportunity of observing the wonders of the ocean?  No, certainly not! And
I could not bring myself to the idea of abandoning the Nautilus before the cycle of investigation
was accomplished.

"Friend Ned, answer me frankly, are you tired of being on board?  Are you sorry that destiny
has thrown us into Captain Nemo's hands?"

The Canadian remained some moments without answering.  Then, crossing his arms, he said:

"Frankly, I do not regret this journey under the seas.  I shall be glad to have made it; but,
now that it is made, let us have done with it. That is my idea."

"It will come to an end, Ned."

"Where and when?"

"Where I do not know--when I cannot say; or, rather, I suppose it will end when these seas
have nothing more to teach us."

"Then what do you hope for?" demanded the Canadian.

"That circumstances may occur as well six months hence as now by which we may and ought to profit."

"Oh!" said Ned Land, "and where shall we be in six months, if you please, Sir Naturalist?"

"Perhaps in China; you know the Nautilus is a rapid traveller.  It goes through water as swallows
through the air, or as an express on the land.  It does not fear frequented seas; who can say
that it may not beat the coasts of France, England, or America, on which flight may be attempted
as advantageously as here."

"M. Aronnax," replied the Canadian, "your arguments are rotten at the foundation.  You speak
in the future, `We shall be there!  we shall be here!'  I speak in the present, `We are here,
and we must profit by it.'"

Ned Land's logic pressed me hard, and I felt myself beaten on that ground.  I knew not what
argument would now tell in my favour.

"Sir," continued Ned, "let us suppose an impossibility: if Captain Nemo should this day offer
you your liberty; would you accept it?"

"I do not know," I answered.

"And if," he added, "the offer made you this day was never to be renewed, would you accept it?"

"Friend Ned, this is my answer.  Your reasoning is against me.  We must not rely on Captain
Nemo's good-will. Common prudence forbids him to set us at liberty.  On the other side, prudence
bids us profit by the first opportunity to leave the Nautilus."

"Well, M. Aronnax, that is wisely said."

"Only one observation--just one.  The occasion must be serious, and our first attempt must
succeed; if it fails, we shall never find another, and Captain Nemo will never forgive us."

"All that is true," replied the Canadian.  "But your observation applies equally to all attempts
at flight, whether in two years' time, or in two days'. But the question is still this: If
a favourable opportunity presents itself, it must be seized."

"Agreed!  And now, Ned, will you tell me what you mean by a favourable opportunity?"

"It will be that which, on a dark night, will bring the Nautilus a short distance from some
European coast."

"And you will try and save yourself by swimming?"

"Yes, if we were near enough to the bank, and if the vessel was floating at the time.  Not
if the bank was far away, and the boat was under the water."

"And in that case?"

"In that case, I should seek to make myself master of the pinnace.  I know how it is worked.
We must get inside, and the bolts once drawn, we shall come to the surface of the water, without
even the pilot, who is in the bows, perceiving our flight."

"Well, Ned, watch for the opportunity; but do not forget that a hitch will ruin us."

"I will not forget, sir."

"And now, Ned, would you like to know what I think of your project?"

"Certainly, M. Aronnax."

"Well, I think--I do not say I hope--I think that this favourable opportunity will never present
itself."

"Why not?"

"Because Captain Nemo cannot hide from himself that we have not given up all hope of regaining
our liberty, and he will be on his guard, above all, in the seas and in the sight of European
coasts."

"We shall see," replied Ned Land, shaking his head determinedly.

"And now, Ned Land," I added, "let us stop here.  Not another word on the subject.  The day
that you are ready, come and let us know, and we will follow you.  I rely entirely upon you."

Thus ended a conversation which, at no very distant time, led to such grave results.  I must
say here that facts seemed to confirm my foresight, to the Canadian's great despair.  Did Captain
Nemo distrust us in these frequented seas? or did he only wish to hide himself from the numerous
vessels, of all nations, which ploughed the Mediterranean? I could not tell; but we were oftener
between waters and far from the coast.  Or, if the Nautilus did emerge, nothing was to be seen
but the pilot's cage; and sometimes it went to great depths, for, between the Grecian Archipelago
and Asia Minor we could not touch the bottom by more than a thousand fathoms.

Thus I only knew we were near the Island of Carpathos, one of the Sporades, by Captain Nemo
reciting these lines from Virgil:

    "Est Carpathio Neptuni gurgite vates,
     Caeruleus Proteus,"

as he pointed to a spot on the planisphere.

It was indeed the ancient abode of Proteus, the old shepherd of Neptune's flocks, now the Island
of Scarpanto, situated between Rhodes and Crete.  I saw nothing but the granite base through
the glass panels of the saloon.

The next day, the 14th of February, I resolved to employ some hours in studying the fishes
of the Archipelago; but for some reason or other the panels remained hermetically sealed. 
Upon taking the course of the Nautilus, I found that we were going towards Candia, the ancient
Isle of Crete.  At the time I embarked on the Abraham Lincoln, the whole of this island had
risen in insurrection against the despotism of the Turks.  But how the insurgents had fared
since that time I was absolutely ignorant, and it was not Captain Nemo, deprived of all land
communications, who could tell me.

I made no allusion to this event when that night I found myself alone with him in the saloon.
Besides, he seemed to be taciturn and preoccupied.  Then, contrary to his custom, he ordered
both panels to be opened, and, going from one to the other, observed the mass of waters attentively.
To what end I could not guess; so, on my side, I employed my time in studying the fish passing
before my eyes.

In the midst of the waters a man appeared, a diver, carrying at his belt a leathern purse.
It was not a body abandoned to the waves; it was a living man, swimming with a strong hand,
disappearing occasionally to take breath at the surface.

I turned towards Captain Nemo, and in an agitated voice exclaimed:

"A man shipwrecked!  He must be saved at any price!"

The Captain did not answer me, but came and leaned against the panel.

The man had approached, and, with his face flattened against the glass, was looking at us.

To my great amazement, Captain Nemo signed to him.  The diver answered with his hand, mounted
immediately to the surface of the water, and did not appear again.

"Do not be uncomfortable," said Captain Nemo.  "It is Nicholas of Cape Matapan, surnamed Pesca.
He is well known in all the Cyclades.  A bold diver! water is his element, and he lives more
in it than on land, going continually from one island to another, even as far as Crete."

"You know him, Captain?"

"Why not, M. Aronnax?"

Saying which, Captain Nemo went towards a piece of furniture standing near the left panel of
the saloon.  Near this piece of furniture, I saw a chest bound with iron, on the cover of which
was a copper plate, bearing the cypher of the Nautilus with its device.

At that moment, the Captain, without noticing my presence, opened the piece of furniture, a
sort of strong box, which held a great many ingots.

They were ingots of gold.  From whence came this precious metal, which represented an enormous
sum?  Where did the Captain gather this gold from? and what was he going to do with it?

I did not say one word.  I looked.  Captain Nemo took the ingots one by one, and arranged them
methodically in the chest, which he filled entirely.  I estimated the contents at more than
4,000 lb. weight of gold, that is to say, nearly L200,000.

The chest was securely fastened, and the Captain wrote an address on the lid, in characters
which must have belonged to Modern Greece.

This done, Captain Nemo pressed a knob, the wire of which communicated with the quarters of
the crew.  Four men appeared, and, not without some trouble, pushed the chest out of the saloon.
Then I heard them hoisting it up the iron staircase by means of pulleys.

At that moment, Captain Nemo turned to me.

"And you were saying, sir?" said he.

"I was saying nothing, Captain."

"Then, sir, if you will allow me, I will wish you good night."

Whereupon he turned and left the saloon.

I returned to my room much troubled, as one may believe.  I vainly tried to sleep--I sought
the connecting link between the apparition of the diver and the chest filled with gold.  Soon,
I felt by certain movements of pitching and tossing that the Nautilus was leaving the depths
and returning to the surface.

Then I heard steps upon the platform; and I knew they were unfastening the pinnace and launching
it upon the waves.  For one instant it struck the side of the Nautilus, then all noise ceased.

Two hours after, the same noise, the same going and coming was renewed; the boat was hoisted
on board, replaced in its socket, and the Nautilus again plunged under the waves.

So these millions had been transported to their address.  To what point of the continent? 
Who was Captain Nemo's correspondent?

The next day I related to Conseil and the Canadian the events of the night, which had excited
my curiosity to the highest degree.  My companions were not less surprised than myself.

"But where does he take his millions to?" asked Ned Land.

To that there was no possible answer.  I returned to the saloon after having breakfast and
set to work.  Till five o'clock in the evening I employed myself in arranging my notes.  At
that moment--(ought I to attribute it to some peculiar idiosyncrasy)--I felt so great a heat
that I was obliged to take off my coat.  It was strange, for we were under low latitudes; and
even then the Nautilus, submerged as it was, ought to experience no change of temperature.
I looked at the manometer; it showed a depth of sixty feet, to which atmospheric heat could
never attain.

I continued my work, but the temperature rose to such a pitch as to be intolerable.

"Could there be fire on board?"  I asked myself.

I was leaving the saloon, when Captain Nemo entered; he approached the thermometer, consulted
it, and, turning to me, said:

"Forty-two degrees."

"I have noticed it, Captain," I replied; "and if it gets much hotter we cannot bear it."

"Oh, sir, it will not get better if we do not wish it."

"You can reduce it as you please, then?"

"No; but I can go farther from the stove which produces it."

"It is outward, then!"

"Certainly; we are floating in a current of boiling water."

"Is it possible!"  I exclaimed.

"Look."

The panels opened, and I saw the sea entirely white all round.  A sulphurous smoke was curling
amid the waves, which boiled like water in a copper.  I placed my hand on one of the panes
of glass, but the heat was so great that I quickly took it off again.

"Where are we?"  I asked.

"Near the Island of Santorin, sir," replied the Captain.  "I wished to give you a sight of
the curious spectacle of a submarine eruption."

"I thought," said I, "that the formation of these new islands was ended."

"Nothing is ever ended in the volcanic parts of the sea," replied Captain Nemo; "and the globe
is always being worked by subterranean fires.  Already, in the nineteenth year of our era,
according to Cassiodorus and Pliny, a new island, Theia (the divine), appeared in the very
place where these islets have recently been formed.  Then they sank under the waves, to rise
again in the year 69, when they again subsided.  Since that time to our days the Plutonian
work has been suspended.  But on the 3rd of February, 1866, a new island, which they named
George Island, emerged from the midst of the sulphurous vapour near Nea Kamenni, and settled
again the 6th of the same month.  Seven days after, the 13th of February, the Island of Aphroessa
appeared, leaving between Nea Kamenni and itself a canal ten yards broad.  I was in these seas
when the phenomenon occurred, and I was able therefore to observe all the different phases.
The Island of Aphroessa, of round form, measured 300 feet in diameter, and 30 feet in height.
It was composed of black and vitreous lava, mixed with fragments of felspar. And lastly, on
the 10th of March, a smaller island, called Reka, showed itself near Nea Kamenni, and since
then these three have joined together, forming but one and the same island."

"And the canal in which we are at this moment?"  I asked.

"Here it is," replied Captain Nemo, showing me a map of the Archipelago.  "You see, I have
marked the new islands."

I returned to the glass.  The Nautilus was no longer moving, the heat was becoming unbearable.
The sea, which till now had been white, was red, owing to the presence of salts of iron.  In
spite of the ship's being hermetically sealed, an insupportable smell of sulphur filled the
saloon, and the brilliancy of the electricity was entirely extinguished by bright scarlet flames.
I was in a bath, I was choking, I was broiled.

"We can remain no longer in this boiling water," said I to the Captain.

"It would not be prudent," replied the impassive Captain Nemo.

An order was given; the Nautilus tacked about and left the furnace it could not brave with
impunity.  A quarter of an hour after we were breathing fresh air on the surface.  The thought
then struck me that, if Ned Land had chosen this part of the sea for our flight, we should
never have come alive out of this sea of fire.

