One alleged cause for procrastination in the examination and adjustment of our claims arises
from an obstacle which it is the duty of the Spanish Government to remove. Whilst the Captain-General
of Cuba is invested with general despotic authority in the government of that island, the power
is withheld from him to examine and redress wrongs committed by officials under his control
on citizens of the United States. Instead of making our complaints directly to him at Havana,
we are obliged to present them through our minister at Madrid. These are then referred back
to the Captain-General for information, and much time is thus consumed in preliminary investigations
and correspondence between Madrid and Cuba before the Spanish Government will consent to proceed
to negotiation. Many of the difficulties between the two Governments would be obviated and
a long train of negotiation avoided if the Captain-General were invested with authority to
settle questions of easy solution on the spot, where all the facts are fresh and could be promptly
and satisfactorily ascertained. We have hitherto in vain urged upon the Spanish Government
to confer this power upon the Captain-General, and our minister to Spain will again be instructed
to urge this subject on their notice. In this respect we occupy a different position from the
powers of Europe. Cuba is almost within sight of our shores; our commerce with it is far greater
than that of any other nation, including Spain itself, and our citizens are in habits of daily
and extended personal intercourse with every part of the island. It is therefore a great grievance
that when any difficulty occurs, no matter how unimportant, which might be readily settled
at the moment, we should be obliged to resort to Madrid, especially when the very first step
to be taken there is to refer it back to Cuba.

The truth is that Cuba, in its existing colonial condition, is a constant source of injury
and annoyance to the American people. It is the only spot in the civilized world where the
African slave trade is tolerated, and we are bound by treaty with Great Britain to maintain
a naval force on the coast of Africa, at much expense both of life and treasure, solely for
the purpose of arresting slavers bound to that island. The late serious difficulties between
the United States and Great Britain respecting the right of search, now so happily terminated,
could never have arisen if Cuba had not afforded a market for slaves. As long as this market
shall remain open there can be no hope for the civilization of benighted Africa. Whilst the
demand for slaves continues in Cuba wars will be waged among the petty and barbarous chiefs
in Africa for the purpose of seizing subjects to supply this trade. In such a condition of
affairs it is impossible that the light of civilization and religion can ever penetrate these
dark abodes.

It has been made known to the world by my predecessors that the United States have on several
occasions endeavored to acquire Cuba from Spain by honorable negotiation. If this were accomplished,
the last relic of the African slave trade would instantly disappear. We would not, if we could,
acquire Cuba in any other manner. This is due to our national character. All the territory
which we have acquired since the origin of the Government has been by fair purchase from France,
Spain, and Mexico or by the free and voluntary act of the independent State of Texas in blending
her destinies with our own. This course we shall ever pursue, unless circumstances should occur
which we do not now anticipate, rendering a departure from it clearly justifiable under the
imperative and overruling law of self-preservation. The island of Cuba, from its geographical
position, commands the mouth of the Mississippi and the immense and annually increasing trade,
foreign and coastwise, from the valley of that noble river, now embracing half the sovereign
States of the Union. With that island under the dominion of a distant foreign power this trade,
of vital importance to these States, is exposed to the danger of being destroyed in time of
war, and it has hitherto been subjected to perpetual injury and annoyance in time of peace.
Our relations with Spain, which ought to be of the most friendly character, must always be
placed in jeopardy whilst the existing colonial government over the island shall remain in
its present condition.

Whilst the possession of the island would be of vast importance to the United States, its value
to Spain is comparatively unimportant. Such was the relative situation of the parties when
the great Napoleon transferred Louisiana to the United States. Jealous as he ever was of the
national honor and interests of France, no person throughout the world has imputed blame to
him for accepting a pecuniary equivalent for this cession.

The publicity which has been given to our former negotiations upon this subject and the large
appropriation which may be required to effect the purpose render it expedient before making
another attempt to renew the negotiation that I should lay the whole subject before Congress.
This is especially necessary, as it may become indispensable to success that I should be intrusted
with the means of making an advance to the Spanish Government immediately after the signing
of the treaty, without awaiting the ratification of it by the Senate. I am encouraged to make
this suggestion by the example of Mr. Jefferson previous to the purchase of Louisiana from
France and by that of Mr. Polk in view of the acquisition of territory from Mexico. I refer
the whole subject to Congress and commend it to their careful consideration. President Polk
first made a similar recommendation in December, 1847, and it was repeated by my immediate
predecessor in December, 1853. I entertain no doubt that indemnity is fairly due to these claimants
under our treaty with Spain of October 27, 1795; and whilst demanding justice we ought to do
justice. An appropriation promptly made for this purpose could not fail to exert a favorable
influence on our negotiations with Spain.

Our position in relation to the independent States south of us on this continent, and especially
those within the limits of North America, is of a peculiar character. The northern boundary
of Mexico is coincident with our own southern boundary from ocean to ocean, and we must necessarily
feel a deep interest in all that concerns the well-being and the fate of so near a neighbor.
We have always cherished the kindest wishes for the success of that Republic, and have indulged
the hope that it might at last, after all its trials, enjoy peace and prosperity under a free
and stable government. We have never hitherto interfered, directly or indirectly, with its
internal affairs, and it is a duty which we owe to ourselves to protect the integrity of its
territory against the hostile interference of any other power. Our geographical position, our
direct interest in all that concerns Mexico, and our well-settled policy in regard to the North
American continent render this an indispensable duty.

Mexico has been in a state of constant revolution almost ever since it achieved its independence.
One military leader after another has usurped the Government in rapid succession, and the various
constitutions from time to time adopted have been set at naught almost as soon as they were
proclaimed. The successive Governments have afforded no adequate protection, either to Mexican
citizens or foreign residents, against lawless violence. Heretofore a seizure of the capital
by a military chieftain has been generally followed by at least the nominal submission of the
country to his rule for a brief period, but not so at the present crisis of Mexican affairs.
A civil war has been raging for some time throughout the Republic between the central Government
at the City of Mexico, which has endeavored to subvert the constitution last framed by military
power, and those who maintain the authority of that constitution. The antagonist parties each
hold possession of different States of the Republic, and the fortunes of the war are constantly
changing. Meanwhile the most reprehensible means have been employed by both parties to extort
money from foreigners, as well as natives, to carry on this ruinous contest. The truth is that
this fine country, blessed with a productive soil and a benign climate, has been reduced by
civil dissension to a condition of almost hopeless anarchy and imbecility. It would be vain
for this Government to attempt to enforce payment in money of the claims of American citizens,
now amounting to more than $10,000,000, against Mexico, because she is destitute of all pecuniary
means to satisfy these demands.

Our late minister was furnished with ample powers and instructions for the adjustment of all
pending questions with the central Government of Mexico, and he performed his duty with zeal
and ability. The claims of our citizens, some of them arising out of the violation of an express
provision of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and others from gross injuries to persons as
well as property, have remained unredressed and even unnoticed. Remonstrances against these
grievances have been addressed without effect to that Government. Meantime in various parts
of the Republic instances have been numerous of the murder, imprisonment, and plunder of our
citizens by different parties claiming and exercising a local jurisdiction; but the central
Government, although repeatedly urged thereto, have made no effort either to punish the authors
of these outrages or to prevent their recurrence. No American citizen can now visit Mexico
on lawful business without imminent danger to his person and property. There is no adequate
protection to either, and in this respect our treaty with that Republic is almost a dead letter.

This state of affairs was brought to a crisis in May last by the promulgation of a decree levying
a contribution pro rata upon all the capital in the Republic between certain specified amounts,
whether held by Mexicans or foreigners. Mr. Forsyth, regarding this decree in the light of
a "forced loan," formally protested against its application to his countrymen and advised them
not to pay the contribution, but to suffer it to be forcibly exacted. Acting upon this advice,
an American citizen refused to pay the contribution, and his property was seized by armed men
to satisfy the amount. Not content with this, the Government proceeded still further and issued
a decree banishing him from the country. Our minister immediately notified them that if this
decree should be carried into execution he would feel it to be his duty to adopt "the most
decided measures that belong to the powers and obligations of the representative office." Notwithstanding
this warning, the banishment was enforced, and Mr. Forsyth promptly announced to the Government
the suspension of the political relations of his legation with them until the pleasure of his
own Government should be ascertained.

This Government did not regard the contribution imposed by the decree of the 15th May last
to be in strictness a "forced loan," and as such prohibited by the tenth article of the treaty
of 1826 between Great Britain and Mexico, to the benefits of which American citizens are entitled
by treaty; yet the imposition of the contribution upon foreigners was considered an unjust
and oppressive measure. Besides, internal factions in other parts of the Republic were at the
same time levying similar exactions upon the property of our citizens and interrupting their
commerce. There had been an entire failure on the part of our minister to secure redress for
the wrongs which our citizens had endured, notwithstanding his persevering efforts. And from
the temper manifested by the Mexican Government he had repeatedly assured us that no favorable
change could be expected until the United States should "give striking evidence of their will
and power to protect their citizens," and that "severe chastening is the only earthly remedy
for our grievances." From this statement of facts it would have been worse than idle to direct
Mr. Forsyth to retrace his steps and resume diplomatic relations with that Government, and
it was therefore deemed proper to sanction his withdrawal of the legation from the City of Mexico.

Abundant cause now undoubtedly exists for a resort to hostilities against the Government still
holding possession of the capital. Should they succeed in subduing the constitutional forces,
all reasonable hope will then have expired of a peaceful settlement of our difficulties. On
the other hand, should the constitutional party prevail and their authority be established
over the Republic, there is reason to hope that they will be animated by a less unfriendly
spirit and may grant that redress to American citizens which justice requires so far as they
may possess the means. But for this expectation I should at once have recommended to Congress
to grant the necessary power to the President to take possession of a sufficient portion of
the remote and unsettled territory of Mexico, to be held in pledge until our injuries shall
be redressed and our just demands be satisfied. We have already exhausted every milder means
of obtaining justice. In such a case this remedy of reprisals is recognized by the law of nations,
not only as just in itself, but as a means of preventing actual war.

But there is another view of our relations with Mexico, arising from the unhappy condition
of affairs along our southwestern frontier, which demands immediate action. In that remote
region, where there are but few white inhabitants, large bands of hostile and predatory Indians
roam promiscuously over the Mexican States of Chihuahua and Sonora and our adjoining Territories.
The local governments of these States are perfectly helpless and are kept in a state of constant
alarm by the Indians. They have not the power, if they possessed the will, even to restrain
lawless Mexicans from passing the border and committing depredations on our remote settlers.
A state of anarchy and violence prevails throughout that distant frontier. The laws are a dead
letter and life and property wholly insecure. For this reason the settlement of Arizona is
arrested, whilst it is of great importance that a chain of inhabitants should extend all along
its southern border sufficient for their own protection and that of the United States mail
passing to and from California. Well-founded apprehensions are now entertained that the Indians
and wandering Mexicans, equally lawless, may break up the important stage and postal communication
recently established between our Atlantic and Pacific possessions. This passes very near to
the Mexican boundary throughout the whole length of Arizona. I can imagine no possible remedy
for these evils and no mode of restoring law and order on that remote and unsettled frontier
but for the Government of the United States to assume a temporary protectorate over the northern
portions of Chihuahua and Sonora and to establish military posts within the same; and this
I earnestly recommend to Congress. This protection may be withdrawn as soon as local governments
shall be established in these Mexican States capable of performing their duties to the United
States, restraining the lawless, and preserving peace along the border.

I do not doubt that this measure will be viewed in a friendly spirit by the governments and
people of Chihuahua and Sonora, as it will prove equally effectual for the protection of their
citizens on that remote and lawless frontier as for citizens of the United States. And in this
connection permit me to recall your attention to the condition of Arizona. The population of
that Territory, numbering, as is alleged, more than 10,000 souls, are practically without a
government, without laws, and without any regular administration of justice. Murder and other
crimes are committed with impunity. This state of things calls loudly for redress, and I therefore
repeat my recommendation for the establishment of a Territorial government over Arizona.

The political condition of the narrow isthmus of Central America, through which transit routes
pass between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, presents a subject of deep interest to all commercial
nations. It is over these transits that a large proportion of the trade and travel between
the European and Asiatic continents is destined to pass. To the United States these routes
are of incalculable importance as a means of communication between their Atlantic and Pacific
possessions. The latter now extend throughout seventeen degrees of latitude on the Pacific
coast, embracing the important State of California and the flourishing territories of Oregon
and Washington. All commercial nations therefore have a deep and direct interest that these
communications shall be rendered secure from interruption. If an arm of the sea connecting
the two oceans penetrated through Nicaragua and Costa Rica, it could not be pretended that
these States would have the right to arrest or retard its navigation to the injury of other
nations. The transit by land over this narrow isthmus occupies nearly the same position. It
is a highway in which they themselves have little interest when compared with the vast interests
of the rest of the world. Whilst their rights of sovereignty ought to be respected, it is the
duty of other nations to require that this important passage shall not be interrupted by the
civil wars and revolutionary outbreaks which have so frequently occurred in that region. The
stake is too important to be left at the mercy of rival companies claiming to hold conflicting
contracts with Nicaragua. The commerce of other nations is not to stand still and await the
adjustment of such petty controversies. The Government of the United States expect no more
than this, and they will not be satisfied with less. They would not, if they could, derive
any advantage from the Nicaragua transit not common to the rest of the World. Its neutrality
and protection for the common use of all nations is their only object. They have no objection
that Nicaragua shall demand and receive a fair compensation from the companies and individuals
who may traverse the route, but they insist that it shall never hereafter be closed by an arbitrary
decree of that Government. If disputes arise between it and those with whom they may have entered
into contracts, these must be adjusted by some fair tribunal provided for the purpose, and
the route must not be closed pending the controversy. This is our whole policy, and it can
not fail to be acceptable to other nations.

All these difficulties might be avoided if, consistently with the good faith of Nicaragua,
the use of this transit could be thrown open to general competition, providing at the same
time for the payment of a reasonable rate to the Nicaraguan Government on passengers and freight.
In August, 1852, the Accessory Transit Company made its first interoceanic trip over the Nicaraguan
route, and continued in successful operation, with great advantage to the public, until the
18th February, 1856, when it was closed and the grant to this company as well as its charter
were summarily and arbitrarily revoked by the Government of President Rivas. Previous to this
date, however, in 1854, serious disputes concerning the settlement of their accounts had arisen
between the company and the Government, threatening the interruption of the route at any moment.
These the United States in vain endeavored to compose. It would be useless to narrate the various
proceedings which took place between the parties up till the time when the transit was discontinued.
Suffice it to say that since February, 1856, it has remained closed, greatly to the prejudice
of citizens of the United States. Since that time the competition has ceased between the rival
routes of Panama and Nicaragua, and in consequence thereof an unjust and unreasonable amount
has been exacted from our citizens for their passage to and from California.

A treaty was signed on the 16th day of November, 1857, by the Secretary of State and minister
of Nicaragua, under the stipulations of which the use and protection of the transit route would
have been secured, not only to the United States, but equally to all other nations. How and
on what pretext this treaty has failed to receive the ratification of the Nicaraguan Government
will appear by the papers herewith communicated from the State Department. The principal objection
seems to have been to the provision authorizing the United States to employ force to keep the
route open in case Nicaragua should fail to perform her duty in this respect. From the feebleness
of that Republic, its frequent changes of government, and its constant internal dissensions,
this had become a most important stipulation, and one essentially necessary, not only for the
security of the route, but for the safety of American citizens passing and repassing to and
from our Pacific possessions. Were such a stipulation embraced in a treaty between the United
States and Nicaragua, the knowledge of this fact would of itself most probably prevent hostile
parties from committing aggressions on the route, and render our actual interference for its
protection unnecessary.

The executive government of this country in its intercourse with foreign nations is limited
to the employment of diplomacy alone. When this fails it can proceed no further. It can not
legitimately resort to force without the direct authority of Congress, except in resisting
and repelling hostile attacks. It would have no authority to enter the territories of Nicaragua
even to prevent the destruction of the transit and protect the lives and property of our own
citizens on their passage. It is true that on a sudden emergency of this character the President
would direct any armed force in the vicinity to march to their relief, but in doing this he
would act upon his own responsibility.

Under these circumstances I earnestly recommend to Congress the passage of an act authorizing
the president, under such restrictions as they may deem proper, to employ the land and naval
forces of the United States in preventing the transit from being obstructed or closed by lawless
violence, and in protecting the lives and property of American citizens traveling thereupon,
requiring at the same time that these forces shall be withdrawn the moment the danger shall
have passed away. Without such a provision our citizens will be constantly exposed to interruption
in their progress and to lawless violence.

A similar necessity exists for the passage of such an act for the protection of the Panama
and Tehuantepec routes. In reference to the Panama route, the United States, by their existing
treaty with New Granada, expressly guarantee the neutrality of the Isthmus, "with the view
that the free transit from the one to the other sea may not be interrupted or embarrassed in
any future time while this treaty exists."

In regard to the Tehuantepec route, which has been recently opened under the most favorable
auspices, our treaty with Mexico of the 30th December, 1853, secures to the citizens of the
United States a right of transit over it for their persons and merchandise and stipulates that
neither Government shall "interpose any obstacle" thereto. It also concedes to the United States
the "right to transport across the Isthmus, in closed bags, the mails of the United States
not intended for distribution along the line of the communication; also the effects of the
United States Government and its citizens which may be intended for transit and not for distribution
on the Isthmus, free of custom-house or other charges by the Mexican Government."

These treaty stipulations with New Granada and Mexico, in addition to the considerations applicable
to the Nicaragua route, seem to require legislation for the purpose of carrying them into effect.

The injuries which have been inflicted upon our citizens in Costa Rica and Nicaragua during
the last two or three years have received the prompt attention of this Government. Some of
these injuries were of the most aggravated character. The transaction at Virgin Bay in April,
1856, when a company of unarmed Americans, who were in no way connected with any belligerent
conduct or party, were fired upon by the troops of Costa Rica and numbers of them killed and
wounded, was brought to the knowledge of Congress by my predecessor soon after its occurrence,
and was also presented to the Government of Costa Rica for that immediate investigation and
redress which the nature of the case demanded. A similar course was pursued with reference
to other outrages in these countries, some of which were hardly less aggravated in their character
than the transaction at Virgin Bay. At the time, however, when our present minister to Nicaragua
was appointed, in December, 1857, no redress had been obtained for any of these wrongs and
no reply even had been received to the demands which had been made by this Government upon
that of Costa Rica more than a year before. Our minister was instructed, therefore, to lose
no time in expressing to those Governments the deep regret with which the President had witnessed
this inattention to the just claims of the United States and in demanding their prompt and
satisfactory adjustment. Unless this demand shall be complied with at an early day it will
only remain for this Government to adopt such other measures as may be necessary in order to
obtain for itself that justice which it has in vain attempted to secure by peaceful means from
the Governments of Nicaragua and Costa Rica. While it has shown, and will continue to show,
the most sincere regard for the rights and honor of these Republics, it can not permit this
regard to be met by an utter neglect on their part of what is due to the Government and citizens
of the United States.

Against New Granada we have long-standing causes of complaint, arising out of the unsatisfied
claims of our citizens upon that Republic, and to these have been more recently added the outrages
committed upon our citizens at Panama in April, 1856. A treaty for the adjustment of these
difficulties was concluded by the Secretary of State and the minister of New Granada in September,
1857, which contained just and acceptable provisions for that purpose. This treaty was transmitted
to Bogota and was ratified by the Government of New Granada, but with certain amendments. It
was not, however, returned to this city until after the close of the last session of the Senate.
It will be immediately transmitted to that body for their advice and consent, and should this
be obtained it will remove all our existing causes of complaint against New Granada on the
subject of claims.

Questions have arisen between the two Governments as to the right of New Granada to levy a
tonnage duty upon the vessels of the United States in its ports of the Isthmus and to levy
a passenger tax upon our citizens arriving in that country, whether with a design to remain
there or to pass from ocean to ocean by the transit route; and also a tax upon the mail of
the United States transported over the Panama Railroad. The Government of New Granada has been
informed that the United States would consider the collection of either of these taxes as an
act in violation of the treaty between the two countries, and as such would be resisted by
the United States. At the same time, we are prepared to discuss these questions in a spirit
of amity and justice and with a sincere desire to adjust them in a satisfactory manner. A negotiation
for that purpose has already been commenced. No effort has recently been made to collect these
taxes nor is any anticipated under present circumstances.

With the Empire of Brazil our relations are of the most friendly character. The productions
of the two countries, and especially those of an agricultural nature, are such as to invite
extensive mutual exchanges. A large quantity of American flour is consumed in Brazil, whilst
more than treble the amount in value of Brazilian coffee is consumed in the United States.
Whilst this is the case, a heavy duty has been levied until very recently upon the importation
of American flour into Brazil. I am gratified, however, to be able to inform you that in September
last this has been reduced from $1.32 to about 49 cents per barrel, and the duties on other
articles of our production have been diminished in nearly the same proportion.

I regret to state that the Government of Brazil still continues to levy an export duty of about
11 per cent on coffee, notwithstanding this article is admitted free from duty in the United
States. This is a heavy charge upon the consumers of coffee in our country, as we purchase
half of the entire surplus crop of that article raised in Brazil. Our minister, under instructions,
will reiterate his efforts to have this export duty removed, and it is hoped that the enlightened
Government of the Emperor will adopt this wise, just, and equal policy. In that event, there
is good reason to believe that the commerce between the two countries will greatly increase,
much to the advantage of both. The claims of our citizens against the Government of Brazil
are not in the aggregate of very large amount; but some of these rest upon plain principles
of justice and their settlement ought not to be longer delayed. A renewed and earnest, and
I trust a successful, effort will be made by our minister to procure their final adjustment.

On the 2d of June last Congress passed a joint resolution authorizing the President "to adopt
such measures and use such force as in his judgment may be necessary and advisable" "for the
purpose of the differences between the United States and the Republic of Paraguay, in connection
with the attack on the United States steamer Water Witch and with other measures referred to"
in his annual message, and on the 12th of July following they made an appropriation to defray
the expenses and compensation of a commissioner to that Republic should the President deem
it proper to make such all appointment.

In compliance with these enactments, I have appointed a commissioner, who has proceeded to
Paraguay with full powers and instructions to settle these differences in an amicable and peaceful
manner if this be practicable. His experience and discretion justify the hope that he may prove
successful in convincing the Paraguayan Government that it is due both to honor and justice
that they should voluntarily and promptly make atonement for the wrongs which they have committed
against the United States and indemnify our injured citizens whom they have forcibly despoiled
of their property.

Should our commissioner prove unsuccessful after a sincere and earnest effort to accomplish
the object of his mission, then no alternative will remain but the employment of force to obtain
"just satisfaction" from Paraguay. In view of this contingency, the Secretary of the Navy,
under my direction, has fitted out and dispatched a naval force to rendezvous near Buenos Ayres,
which, it is believed, will prove sufficient for the occasion. It is my earnest desire, however,
that it may not be found necessary to resort to this last alternative.

When Congress met in December last the business of the country had just been crushed by one
of those periodical revulsions which are the inevitable consequence of our unsound and extravagant
system of bank credits and inflated currency. With all the elements of national wealth in abundance,
our manufactures were suspended, our useful public and private enterprises were arrested, and
thousands of laborers were deprived of employment and reduced to want. Universal distress prevailed
among the commercial, manufacturing, and mechanical classes. This revulsion was felt the more
severely in the United States because similar causes had produced the like deplorable effects
throughout the commercial nations of Europe. All were experiencing sad reverses at the same
moment. Our manufacturers everywhere suffered severely, not because of the recent reduction
in the tariff of duties on imports, but because there was no demand at any price for their
productions. The people were obliged to restrict themselves in their purchases to articles
of prime necessity. In the general prostration of business the iron manufacturers in different
States probably suffered more than any other class, and much destitution was the inevitable
consequence among the great number of workmen who had been employed in this useful branch of
industry. There could be no supply where there was no demand. To present an example, there
could be no demand for railroad iron after our magnificent system of railroads, extending its
benefits to every portion of the Union, had been brought to a dead pause. The same consequences
have resulted from similar causes to many other branches of useful manufactures. It is self-evident
that where there is no ability to purchase manufactured articles these can not be sold, and
consequently must cease to be produced.

No government, and especially a government of such limited powers as that of the United States,
could have prevented the late revulsion. The whole commercial world seemed for years to have
been rushing to this catastrophe. The same ruinous consequences would have followed in the
United States whether the duties upon foreign imports had remained as they were under the tariff
of 1846 or had been raised to a much higher standard. The tariff of 1857 had no agency in the
result. The general causes existing throughout the world could not have been controlled by
the legislation of any particular country.

The periodical revulsions which have existed in our past history must continue to return at
intervals so long as our present unbounded system of bank credits shall prevail. They will,
however, probably be the less severe in future, because it is not to be expected, at least
for many years to come, that the commercial nations of Europe, with whose interests our own
are so materially involved, will expose themselves to similar calamities. But this subject
was treated so much at large in my last annual message that I shall not now pursue it further.
Still, I respectfully renew the recommendation in favor of the passage of a uniform bankrupt
law applicable to banking institutions. This is all the direct power over the subject which
I believe the Federal Government possesses. Such a law would mitigate, though it might not
prevent, the evil. The instinct of self-preservation might produce a wholesome restraint upon
their banking business if they knew in advance that a suspension of specie payments would inevitably
produce their civil death.

But the effects of the revulsion are now slowly but surely passing away. The energy and enterprise
of our citizens, with our unbounded resources, will within the period of another year restore
a state of wholesome industry and trade. Capital has again accumulated in our large cities.
The rate of interest is there very low. Confidence is gradually reviving, and so soon as it
is discovered that this capital can be profitably employed in commercial and manufacturing
enterprises and in the construction of railroads and other works of public and private improvement
prosperity will again smile throughout the land. It is vain, however, to disguise the fact
from ourselves that a speculative inflation of our currency without a corresponding inflation
in other countries whose manufactures come into competition with our own must ever produce
disastrous results to our domestic manufactures. No tariff short of absolute prohibition can
prevent these evil consequences. In connection with this subject it is proper to refer to our
financial condition. The same causes which have produced pecuniary distress throughout the
country have so reduced the amount of imports from foreign countries that the revenue has proved
inadequate to meet the necessary expenses of the Government. To supply the deficiency, Congress,
by the act of December 23, 1857, authorized the issue of $20,000,000 of Treasury notes; and
this proving inadequate, they authorized, by the act of June 14, 1858, a loan of $20,000,000,
to be applied to the payment of appropriations made by law."

No statesman would advise that we should go on increasing the national debt to meet the ordinary
expenses of the Government. This would be a most ruinous policy. In case of war our credit
must be our chief resource, at least for the first year, and this would be greatly impaired
by having contracted a large debt in time of peace. It is our true policy to increase our revenue
so as to equal our expenditures. It would be ruinous to continue to borrow. Besides, it may
be proper to observe that the incidental protection thus afforded by a revenue tariff would
at the present moment to some extent increase the confidence of the manufacturing interests
and give a fresh impulse to our reviving business. To this surely no person will object.

In regard to the mode of assessing and collecting duties under a strictly revenue tariff, I
have long entertained and often expressed the opinion that sound policy requires this should
be done by specific duties in cases to which these can be properly applied. They are well adapted
to commodities which are usually sold by weight or by measure, and which from their nature
are of equal or of nearly equal value. Such, for example, are the articles of iron of different
classes, raw sugar, and foreign wines and spirits.

In my deliberate judgment specific duties are the best, if not the only, means of securing
the revenue against false and fraudulent invoices, and such has been the practice adopted for
this purpose by other commercial nations. Besides, specific duties would afford to the American
manufacturer the incidental advantages to which he is fairly entitled under a revenue tariff.
The present system is a sliding scale to his disadvantage. Under it, when prices are high and
business prosperous, the duties rise in amount when he least requires their aid. On the contrary,
when prices fall and he is struggling against adversity, the duties are diminished in the same
proportion, greatly to his injury. Neither would there be danger that a higher rate of duty
than that intended by Congress could be levied in the form of specific duties. It would be
easy to ascertain the average value of any imported article for a series of years, and, instead
of subjecting it to an ad valorem duty at a certain rate per centum, to substitute in its place
an equivalent specific duty.

By such an arrangement the consumer would not be injured. It is true he might have to pay a
little more duty on a given article in one year, but, if so, he would pay a little less in
another, and in a series of years these would counterbalance each other and amount to the same
thing so far as his interest is concerned. This inconvenience would be trifling when contrasted
with the additional security thus afforded against frauds upon the revenue, in which every
consumer is directly interested.

I have thrown out these suggestions as the fruit of my own observation, to which Congress,
in their better judgment, will give such weight as they may justly deserve.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury will explain in detail the operations of that Department
of the Government.

The public expenditures during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1858, amounted to $81,585,667.76,
of which $9,684,537.99 were applied to the payment of the public debt and the redemption of
Treasury notes with the interest thereon, leaving in the Treasury on July 1, 1858, being the
commencement of the present fiscal year, $6,398,316.10. The estimated expenditures during the
remaining three quarters to June 30, 1859, are $52,357,698.48, making an aggregate of $74,065,896.99,
being an excess of expenditure beyond the estimated receipts into the Treasury from ordinary
sources during the fiscal year to the 30th of June, 1859, of $3,936,701.43. Extraordinary means
are placed by law within the command of the Secretary of the Treasury, by the reissue of Treasury
notes redeemed and by negotiating the balance of the loan authorized by the act of June 14,
1858, to the extent of $11,000,000, which, if realized during the present fiscal year, will
leave a balance in the Treasury on the 1st day of July, 1859, of $7,063,298.57.

The estimated receipts during the next fiscal year, ending June 30, 1860, are $62,000,000,
which, with the above-estimated balance of $7,063,298.57 make an aggregate for the service
of the next fiscal year of $69,063,298.57. The estimated expenditures during the next fiscal
year, ending June 30, 1860, are $73,139,147.46, which leaves a deficit of estimated means,
compared with the estimated expenditures, for that year, commencing on July 1, 1859, of $4,075,848.89.

In addition to this sum the Postmaster-General will require from the Treasury for the service
of the Post-Office Department $3,838,728, as explained in the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury, which will increase the estimated deficit on June 30, 1860, to $7,914,576.89. To
provide for the payment of this estimated deficiency, which will be increased by such appropriations
as may be made by Congress not estimated for in the report of the Treasury Department, as well
as to provide for the gradual redemption from year to year of the outstanding Treasury notes,
the Secretary of the Treasury recommends such a revision of the present tariff as will raise
the required amount. After what I have already said I need scarcely add that I concur in the
opinion expressed in his report--that the public debt should not be increased by an additional
loan--and would therefore strongly urge upon Congress the duty of making at their present session
the necessary provision for meeting these liabilities.

The public debt on July 1, 1858, the commencement of the present fiscal year, was $25,155,977.66.

During the first quarter of the present year the sum of $10,000,000 has been negotiated of
the loan authorized by the act of June 14, 1858, making the present outstanding public debt,
exclusive of Treasury notes, $35,155,977.66. There was on the 1st of July, 1858, of Treasury
notes issued by authority of the act of December 23, 1857, unredeemed, the sum of $19,754,800,
making the amount of actual indebtedness at that date $54,910,777.66. To this will be added
$10,000,000 during the present fiscal year, this being the remaining half of the loan of $20,000,000
not yet negotiated.

The rapid increase of the public debt and the necessity which exists for a modification of
the tariff to meet even the ordinary expenses of the Government ought to admonish us all, in
our respective spheres of duty, to the practice of rigid economy. The objects of expenditure
should be limited in number, as far as this may be practicable, and the appropriations necessary
to carry them into effect ought to be disbursed under the strictest accountability. Enlightened
economy does not consist in the refusal to appropriate money for constitutional purposes essential
to the defense, progress, and prosperity of the Republic, but in taking care that none of this
money shall be wasted by mismanagement in its application to the objects designated by law.

Comparisons between the annual expenditure at the present time and what it was ten or twenty
years ago are altogether fallacious. The rapid increase of our country in extent and population
renders a corresponding increase of expenditure to some extent unavoidable. This is constantly
creating new objects of expenditure and augmenting the amount required for the old. The true
questions, then, are, Have these objects been unnecessarily multiplied, or has the amount expended
upon any or all of them been larger than comports with due economy? In accordance with these
principles, the heads of the different Executive Departments of the Government have been instructed
to reduce their estimates for the next fiscal year to the lowest standard consistent with the
efficiency of the service, and this duty they have performed in a spirit of just economy. The
estimates of the Treasury, War, Navy, and Interior Departments have each been in some degree
reduced, and unless a sudden and unforeseen emergency should arise it is not anticipated that
a deficiency will exist in either within the present or the next fiscal year. The Post-Office
Department is placed in a peculiar position, different from the other Departments, and to this
I shall hereafter refer.

I invite Congress to institute a rigid scrutiny to ascertain whether the expenses in all the
Departments can not be still further reduced, and I promise them all the aid in my power in
pursuing the investigation.

In my last annual message I took occasion to recommend the immediate construction of ten small
steamers of light draft, for the purpose of increasing the efficiency of the Navy. Congress
responded to the recommendation by authorizing the construction of eight of them. The progress
which has been made in executing this authority is stated in the report of the Secretary of
the Navy. I concur with him in the opinion that a greater number of this class of vessels is
necessary for the purpose of protecting in a more efficient manner the persons and property
of American citizens on the high seas and in foreign countries, as well as in guarding more
effectually our own coasts. I accordingly recommend the passage of an act for this purpose.

The suggestions contained in the report of the Secretary of the Interior, especially those
in regard to the disposition of the public domain, the pension and bounty-land system, the
policy toward the Indians, and the amendment of our patent laws, are worthy of the serious
consideration of Congress.

The Post-Office Department occupies a position very different from that of the other Departments.
For many years it was the policy of the Government to render this a self-sustaining Department;
and if this can not now be accomplished, in the present condition of the country, we ought
to make as near an approach to it as may be practicable.

The Postmaster-General is placed in a most embarrassing position by the existing laws. He is
obliged to carry these into effect. He has no other alternative. He finds, however, that this
can not be done without heavy demands upon the Treasury over and above what is received for
postage, and these have been progressively increasing from year to year until they amounted
for the last fiscal year, ending on the 30th of June, 1858, to more than $4,500,000, whilst
it is estimated that for the present fiscal year they will amount to $6,290,000. These sums
are exclusive of the annual appropriation of $700,000 for "compensation for the mail service
performed for the two Houses of Congress and the other Departments and officers of the Government
in the transmission of free matter."

The cause of these large deficits is mainly attributable to the increased expense of transporting
the mails. In 1852 the sum paid for this service was but a fraction above four millions and
a quarter. Since that year it has annually increased, until in 1858 it has reached more than
eight millions and a quarter, and for the service of 1859 it is estimated that it will amount
to more than $10,000,000.

The receipts of the Post-Office Department can be made to approach or to equal its expenditure
only by means of the legislation of Congress. In applying any remedy care should be taken that
the people shall not be deprived of the advantages which they are fairly entitled to enjoy
from the Post-Office Department. The principal remedies recommended to the consideration of
Congress by the Postmaster-General are to restore the former rate of postage upon single letters
to 5 cents; to substitute for the franking privilege the delivery to those now entitled to
enjoy it of post-office stamps for their correspondence, and to direct the Department in making
contracts for the transportation of the mail to confine itself to the payment of the sum necessary
for this single purpose, without requiring it to be transported in post coaches or carriages
of any particular description. Under the present system the expense to the Government is greatly
increased by requiring that the mail shall be carried in such vehicles as will accommodate
passengers. This will be done, without pay from the Department, over all roads where the travel
will remunerate the contractors.

These recommendations deserve the grave consideration of Congress. I would again call your
attention to the construction of a Pacific railroad. Time and reflection have but served to
confirm me in the truth and justice of the observations which I made on this subject in my
last annual message, to which I beg leave respectfully to refer.

It is freely admitted that it would be inexpedient for this Government to exercise the power
of constructing the Pacific railroad by its own immediate agents. Such a policy would increase
the patronage of the Executive to a dangerous extent, and introduce a system of jobbing and
corruption which no vigilance on the part of Federal officials could either prevent or detect.
This can only be done by the keen eye and active and careful supervision of individual and
private interest. The construction of this road ought therefore to be committed to companies
incorporated by the States or other agencies whose pecuniary interests would be directly involved.
Congress might then assist them in the work by grants of land or of money, or both, under such
conditions and restrictions as would secure the transportation of troops and munitions of war
free from any charge and that of the United States mail at a fair and reasonable price.

The progress of events since the commencement of your last session has shown how soon difficulties
disappear before a firm and determined resolution. At that time such a road was deemed by wise
and patriotic men to be a visionary project. The great distance to be overcome and the intervening
mountains and deserts in the way were obstacles which, in the opinion of many, could not be
surmounted. Now, after the lapse of but a single year, these obstacles, it has been discovered,
are far less formidable than they were supposed to be, and mail stages with passengers now
pass and repass regularly twice in each week, by a common wagon road, between San Francisco
and St. Louis and Memphis in less than twenty-five days. The service has been as regularly
performed as it was in former years between New York and this city.

Whilst disclaiming all authority to appropriate money for the construction of this road, except
that derived from the war-making power of the Constitution, there are important collateral
considerations urging us to undertake the work as speedily as possible. The first and most
momentous of these is that such a road would be a powerful bond of union between the States
east and west of the Rocky Mountains. This is so self-evident as to require no illustration.

But again, in a commercial point of view, I consider this the great question of the day. With
the eastern front of our Republic stretching along the Atlantic and its western front along
the Pacific, if all the parts should be united by a safe, easy, and rapid intercommunication
we must necessarily command a very large proportion of the trade both of Europe and Asia. Our
recent treaties with China and Japan will open these rich and populous Empires to our commerce;
and the history of the world proves that the nation which has gained possession of the trade
with eastern Asia has always become wealthy and powerful. The peculiar geographical position
of California and our Pacific possessions invites American capital and enterprise into this
fruitful field. To reap the rich harvest, however, it is an indispensable prerequisite that
we shall first have a railroad to convey and circulate its products throughout every portion
of the Union. Besides, such a railroad through our temperate latitude, which would not be impeded
by the frosts and snows of winter nor by the tropical heats of summer, would attract to itself
much of the travel and the trade of all nations passing between Europe and Asia.

On the 21st of August last Lieutenant J. N. Maffit, of the United States brig Dolphin, captured
the slaver Echo (formerly the Putnam, of New Orleans) near Kay Verde, on the coast of Cuba,
with more than 300 African negroes on board. The prize, under the command of Lieutenant Bradford,
of the United States Navy, arrived at Charleston on the 27th August, when the negroes, 306
in number, were delivered into the custody of the United States marshal for the district of
South Carolina. They were first placed in Castle Pinckney, and afterwards in Fort Sumter, for
safe-keeping, and were detained there until the 19th September, when the survivors, 271 in
number, were delivered on board the United States steamer Niagara to be transported to the
coast of Africa under the charge of the agent of the United States, pursuant to the provisions
of the act of the 3d March, 1819, "in addition to the acts prohibiting the slave trade." Under
the second section of this act the President is "authorized to make such regulations and arrangements
as he may deem expedient for the safe-keeping, support, and removal beyond the limits of the
United States of all such negroes, mulattoes, or persons of color" captured by vessels of the
United States as may be delivered to the marshal of the district into which they are brought,
"and to appoint a proper person or persons residing upon the coast of Africa as agent or agents
for receiving the negroes, mulattoes, or persons of color delivered from on board vessels seized
in the prosecution of the slave trade by commanders of United States armed vessels."

A doubt immediately arose as to the true construction of this act. It is quite clear from its
terms that the President was authorized to provide "for the safe-keeping, support, and removal"
of these negroes up till the time of their delivery to the agent on the coast of Africa, but
no express provision was made for their protection and support after they had reached the place
of their destination. Still, an agent was to be pointed to receive them in Africa, and it could
not have been supposed that Congress intended he should desert them at the moment they were
received and turn them loose on that inhospitable coast to perish for want of food or to become
again the victims of the slave trade. Had this been the intention of Congress, the employment
of an agent to receive them, who is required to reside on the coast, was unnecessary, and they
might have been landed by our vessels anywhere in Africa and left exposed to the sufferings
and the fate which would certainly await them.

Mr. Monroe, in his special message of December 17, 1819, at the first session after the act
was passed, announced to Congress what in his opinion was its true construction. He believed
it to be his duty under it to follow these unfortunates into Africa and make provision for
them there until they should be able to provide for themselves. In communicating this interpretation
of the act to Congress he stated that some doubt had been entertained as to its true intent
and meaning, and he submitted the question to them so that they might, "should it be deemed
advisable, amend the same before further proceedings are had under it." Nothing was done by
Congress to explain the act, and Mr. Monroe proceeded to carry it into execution according
to his own interpretation. This, then, became the practical construction. When the Africans
from on board the Echo were delivered to the marshal at Charleston, it became my duty to consider
what disposition ought to be made of them under the law. For many reasons it was expedient
to remove them from that locality as speedily as possible. Although the conduct of the authorities
and citizens of Charleston in giving countenance to the execution of the law was just what
might have been expected from their high character, yet a prolonged continuance of 300 Africans
in the immediate vicinity of that city could not have failed to become a source of inconvenience
and anxiety to its inhabitants. Where to send them was the question. There was no portion of
the coast of Africa to which they could be removed with any regard to humanity except to Liberia.
Under these circumstances an agreement was entered into with the Colonization Society on the
7th of September last, a copy of which is herewith transmitted, under which the society engaged,
for the consideration of $45,000, to receive these Africans in Liberia from the agent of the
United States and furnish them during the period of one year thereafter with comfortable shelter,
clothing, provisions, and medical attendance, causing the children to receive schooling, and
all, whether children or adults, to be instructed in the arts of civilized life suitable to
their condition. This aggregate of $45,000 was based upon an allowance of $150 for each individual;
and as there has been considerable mortality among them and may be more before they reach Africa,
the society have agreed, in an equitable spirit, to make such a deduction from the amount as
under the circumstances may appear just and reasonable. This can not be fixed until we shall
ascertain the actual number which may become a charge to the society. It was also distinctly
agreed that under no circumstances shall this Government be called upon for any additional
expenses. The agents of the society manifested a laudable desire to conform to the wishes of
the Government throughout the transaction. They assured me that after a careful calculation
they would be required to expend the sum of $150 on each individual in complying with the agreement,
and they would have nothing left to remunerate them for their care, trouble, and responsibility.
At all events, I could make no better arrangement, and there was no other alternative. During
the period when the Government itself, through its own agents, undertook the task of providing
for captured negroes in Africa the cost per head was very much greater.

There having been no outstanding appropriation applicable to this purpose, I could not advance
any money on the agreement. I therefore recommend that an appropriation may be made of the
amount necessary to carry it into effect.

Other captures of a similar character may, and probably will, be made by our naval forces,
and I earnestly recommend that Congress may amend the second section of the act of March 3,
1819, so as to free its construction from the ambiguity which has so long existed and render
the duty of the President plain in executing its provisions.

I recommend to your favorable regard the local interests of the District of Columbia. As the
residence of Congress and the Executive Departments of the Government, we can not fail to feel
a deep concern in its welfare. This is heightened by the high character and the peaceful and
orderly conduct of its resident inhabitants.

I can not conclude without performing the agreeable duty of expressing my gratification that
Congress so kindly responded to the recommendation of my last annual message by affording me
sufficient time before the close of their late session for the examination of all the bills
presented to me for approval. This change in the practice of Congress has proved to be a wholesome
reform. It exerted a beneficial influence on the transaction of legislative business and elicited
the general approbation of the country. It enabled Congress to adjourn with that dignity and
deliberation so becoming to the representatives of this great Republic, without having crowded
into general appropriation bills provisions foreign to their nature and of doubtful constitutionality
and expediency. Let me warmly and strongly commend this precedent established by themselves
as a guide to their proceedings during the present session.

***

State of the Union Address James Buchanan December 19, 1859

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Our deep and heartfelt gratitude is due to that Almighty Power which has bestowed upon us such
varied and numerous blessings throughout the past year. The general health of the country has
been excellent, our harvests have been unusually plentiful, and prosperity smiles throughout
the land. Indeed, notwithstanding our demerits, we have much reason to believe from the past
events in our history that we have enjoyed the special protection of Divine Providence ever
since our origin as a nation. We have been exposed to many threatening and alarming difficulties
in our progress, but on each successive occasion the impending cloud has been dissipated at
the moment it appeared ready to burst upon our head, and the danger to our institutions has
passed away. May we ever be under the divine guidance and protection. Whilst it is the duty
of the President "from time to time to give to Congress information of the state of the Union,"
I shall not refer in detail to the recent sad and bloody occurrences at Harpers Ferry. Still,
it is proper to observe that these events, however bad and cruel in themselves, derive their
chief importance from the apprehension that they are but symptoms of an incurable disease in
the public mind, which may break out in still more dangerous outrages and terminate at last
in an open war by the North to abolish slavery in the South. Whilst for myself I entertain
no such apprehension, they ought to afford a solemn warning to us all to beware of the approach
of danger. Our Union is a stake of such inestimable value as to demand our constant and watchful
vigilance for its preservation. In this view, let me implore my countrymen, North and South,
to cultivate the ancient feelings of mutual forbearance and good will toward each other and
strive to allay the demon spirit of sectional hatred and strife now alive in the land. This
advice proceeds from the heart of an old public functionary whose service commenced in the
last generation, among the wise and conservative statesmen of that day, now nearly all passed
away, and whose first and dearest earthly wish is to leave his country tranquil, prosperous,
united, and powerful.

We ought to reflect that in this age, and especially in this country, there is an incessant
flux and reflux of public opinion. Questions which in their day assumed a most threatening
aspect have now nearly gone from the memory of men. They are "volcanoes burnt out, and on the
lava and ashes and squalid scoria of old eruptions grow the peaceful olive, the cheering vine,
and the sustaining corn." Such, in my opinion, will prove to be the fate of the present sectional
excitement should those who wisely seek to apply the remedy continue always to confine their
efforts within the pale of the Constitution. If this course be pursued, the existing agitation
on the subject of domestic slavery, like everything human, will have its day and give place
to other and less threatening controversies. Public opinion in this country is all-powerful,
and when it reaches a dangerous excess upon any question the good sense of the people will
furnish the corrective and bring it back within safe limits. Still, to hasten this auspicious
result at the present crisis we ought to remember that every rational creature must be presumed
to intend the natural consequences of his own teachings. Those who announce abstract doctrines
subversive of the Constitution and the Union must not be surprised should their heated partisans
advance one step further and attempt by violence to carry these doctrines into practical effect.
In this view of the subject, it ought never to be forgotten that however great may have been
the political advantages resulting from the Union to every portion of our common country, these
would all prove to be as nothing should the time ever arrive when they can not be enjoyed without
serious danger to the personal safety of the people of fifteen members of the Confederacy.
If the peace of the domestic fireside throughout these States should ever be invaded, if the
mothers of families within this extensive region should not be able to retire to rest at night
without suffering dreadful apprehensions of what may be their own fate and that of their children
before the morning, it would be vain to recount to such a people the political benefits which
result to them from the Union. Self-preservation is the first instinct of nature, and therefore
any state of society in which the sword is all the time suspended over the heads of the people
must at last become intolerable. But I indulge in no such gloomy forebodings. On the contrary,
I firmly believe that the events at Harpers Ferry, by causing the people to pause and reflect
upon the possible peril to their cherished institutions, will be the means under Providence
of allaying the existing excitement and preventing further outbreaks of a similar character.
They will resolve that the Constitution and the Union shall not be endangered by rash counsels,
knowing that should "the silver cord be loosed or the golden bowl be broken at the fountain"
human power could never reunite the scattered and hostile fragments.

I cordially congratulate you upon the final settlement by the Supreme Court of the United States
of the question of slavery in the Territories, which had presented an aspect so truly formidable
at the commencement of my Administration. The right has been established of every citizen to
take his property of any kind, including slaves, into the common Territories belonging equally
to all the States of the Confederacy, and to have it protected there under the Federal Constitution.
Neither Congress nor a Territorial legislature nor any human power has any authority to annul
or impair this vested right. The supreme judicial tribunal of the country, which is a coordinate
branch of the Government, has sanctioned and affirmed these principles of constitutional law,
so manifestly just in themselves and so well calculated to promote peace and harmony among
the States. It is a striking proof of the sense of justice which is inherent in our people
that the property in slaves has never been disturbed, to my knowledge, in any of the Territories.
Even throughout the late troubles in Kansas there has not been any attempt, as I am credibly
informed, to interfere in a single instance with the right of the master. Had any such attempt
been made, the judiciary would doubtless have afforded an adequate remedy. Should they fail
to do this hereafter, it will then be time enough to strengthen their hands by further legislation.
Had it been decided that either Congress or the Territorial legislature possess the power to
annul or impair the right to property in slaves, the evil would be intolerable. In the latter
event there would be a struggle for a majority of the members of the legislature at each successive
election, and the sacred rights of property held under the Federal Constitution would depend
for the time being on the result. The agitation would thus be rendered incessant whilst the
Territorial condition remained, and its baneful influence would keep alive a dangerous excitement
among the people of the several States.

Thus has the status of a Territory during the intermediate period from its first settlement
until it shall become a State been irrevocably fixed by the final decision of the Supreme Court.
Fortunate has this been for the prosperity of the Territories, as well as the tranquillity
of the States. Now emigrants from the North and the South, the East and the West, will meet
in the Territories on a common platform, having brought with them that species of property
best adapted, in their own opinion, to promote their welfare. From natural causes the slavery
question will in each case soon virtually settle itself, and before the Territory is prepared
for admission as a State into the Union this decision, one way or the other, will have been
a foregone conclusion. Meanwhile the settlement of the new Territory will proceed without serious
interruption, and its progress and prosperity will not be endangered or retarded by violent
political struggles.

When in the progress of events the inhabitants of any Territory shall have reached the number
required to form a State, they will then proceed in a regular manner and in the exercise of
the rights of popular sovereignty to form a constitution preparatory to admission into the
Union. After this has been done, to employ the language of the Kansas and Nebraska act, they
"shall be received into the Union with or without slavery, as their constitution may prescribe
at the time of their admission." This sound principle has happily been recognized in some form
or other by an almost unanimous vote of both Houses of the last Congress.

All lawful means at my command have been employed, and shall continue to be employed, to execute
the laws against the African slave trade. After a most careful and rigorous examination of
our coasts and a thorough investigation of the subject, we have not been able to discover that
any slaves have been imported into the United States except the cargo by the Wanderer, numbering
between three and four hundred. Those engaged in this unlawful enterprise have been rigorously
prosecuted, but not with as much success as their crimes have deserved. A number of them are
still under prosecution.

Our history proves that the fathers of the Republic, in advance of all other nations, condemned
the African slave trade. It was, notwithstanding, deemed expedient by the framers of the Constitution
to deprive Congress of the power to prohibit "the migration or importation of such persons
as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit" "prior to the year 1808." It
will be seen that this restriction on the power of Congress was confined to such States only
as might think proper to admit the importation of slaves. It did not extend to other States
or to the trade carried on abroad. Accordingly, we find that so early as the 22d March, 1794,
Congress passed an act imposing severe penalties and punishments upon citizens and residents
of the United States who should engage in this trade between foreign nations. The provisions
of this act were extended and enforced by the act of 10th May, 1800.

Again, the States themselves had a clear right to waive the constitutional privilege intended
for their benefit, and to prohibit by their own laws this trade at any time they thought proper
previous to 1808. Several of them exercised this right before that period, and among them some
containing the greatest number of slaves. This gave to Congress the immediate power to act
in regard to all such States, because they themselves had removed the constitutional barrier.
Congress accordingly passed an act on 28th February, 1803, "to prevent the importation of certain
persons into certain States where by the laws thereof their admission is prohibited." In this
manner the importation of African slaves into the United States was to a great extent prohibited
some years in advance of 1808.

As the year 1808 approached Congress determined not to suffer this trade to exist even for
a single day after they had the power to abolish it. On the 2d of March, 1807, they passed
an act, to take effect "from and after the 1st day of January, 1808," prohibiting the importation
of African slaves into the United States. This was followed by subsequent acts of a similar
character, to which I need not specially refer. Such were the principles and such the practice
of our ancestors more than fifty years ago in regard to the African slave trade. It did not
occur to the revered patriots who had been delegates to the Convention, and afterwards became
members of Congress, that in passing these laws they had violated the Constitution which they
had framed with so much care and deliberation. They supposed that to prohibit Congress in express
terms from exercising a specified power before an appointed day necessarily involved the right
to exercise this power after that day had arrived.

If this were not the case, the framers of the Constitution had expended much labor in vain.
Had they imagined that Congress would possess no power to prohibit the trade either before
or after 1808, they would not have taken so much care to protect the States against the exercise
of this power before that period. Nay, more, they would not have attached such vast importance
to this provision as to have excluded it from the possibility of future repeal or amendment,
to which other portions of the Constitution were exposed. It would, then, have been wholly
unnecessary to ingraft on the fifth article of the Constitution, prescribing the mode of its
own future amendment, the proviso "that no amendment which may be made prior to the year 1808
shall in any manner affect" the provision in the Constitution securing to the States the right
to admit the importation of African slaves previous to that period. According to the adverse
construction, the clause itself, on which so much care and discussion had been employed by
the members of the Convention, was an absolute nullity from the beginning, and all that has
since been done under it a mere usurpation.

It was well and wise to confer this power on Congress, because had it been left to the States
its efficient exercise would have been impossible. In that event any one State could have effectually
continued the trade, not only for itself, but for all the other slave States, though never
so much against their will. And why? Because African slaves, when once brought within the limits
of any one State in accordance with its laws, can not practically be excluded from any State
where slavery exists. And even if all the States had separately passed laws prohibiting the
importation of slaves, these laws would have failed of effect for want of a naval force to
capture the slavers and to guard the coast. Such a force no State can employ in time of peace
without the consent of Congress.

These acts of Congress, it is believed, have, with very rare and insignificant exceptions,
accomplished their purpose. For a period of more than half a century there has been no perceptible
addition to the number of our domestic slaves. During this period their advancement in civilization
has far surpassed that of any other portion of the African race. The light and the blessings
of Christianity have been extended to them, and both their moral and physical condition has
been greatly improved.

Reopen the trade and it would be difficult to determine whether the effect would be more deleterious
on the interests of the master or on those of the native-born slave. Of the evils to the master,
the one most to be dreaded would be the introduction of wild, heathen, and ignorant barbarians
among the sober, orderly, and quiet slaves whose ancestors have been on the soil for several
generations. This might tend to barbarize, demoralize, and exasperate the whole mass and produce
most deplorable consequences.

The effect upon the existing slave would, if possible, be still more deplorable. At present
he is treated with kindness and humanity. He is well fed, well clothed, and not overworked.
His condition is incomparably better than that of the coolies which modern nations of high
civilization have employed as a substitute for African slaves. Both the philanthropy and the
self-interest of the master have combined to produce this humane result. But let this trade
be reopened and what will be the effect? The same to a considerable extent as on a neighboring
island, the only spot now on earth where the African slave trade is openly tolerated, and this
in defiance of solemn treaties with a power abundantly able at any moment to enforce their
execution. There the master, intent upon present gain, extorts from the slave as much labor
as his physical powers are capable of enduring, knowing that when death comes to his relief
his place can be supplied at a price reduced to the lowest point by the competition of rival
African slave traders. Should this ever be the case in our country, which I do not deem possible,
the present useful character of the domestic institution, wherein those too old and too young
to work are provided for with care and humanity and those capable of labor are not overtasked,
would undergo an unfortunate change. The feeling of reciprocal dependence and attachment which
now exists between master and slave would be converted into mutual distrust and hostility.

But we are obliged as a Christian and moral nation to consider what would be the effect upon
unhappy Africa itself if we should reopen the slave trade. This would give the trade an impulse
and extension which it has never had, even in its palmiest days. The numerous victims required
to supply it would convert the whole slave coast into a perfect pandemonium, for which this
country would be held responsible in the eyes both of God and man. Its petty tribes would then
be constantly engaged in predatory wars against each other for the purpose of seizing slaves
to supply the American market. All hopes of African civilization would thus be ended.

On the other hand, when a market for African slaves shall no longer be furnished in Cuba, and
thus all the world be closed against this trade, we may then indulge a reasonable hope for
the gradual improvement of Africa. The chief motive of war among the tribes will cease whenever
there is no longer any demand for slaves. The resources of that fertile but miserable country
might then be developed by the hand of industry and afford subjects for legitimate foreign
and domestic commerce. In this manner Christianity and civilization may gradually penetrate
the existing gloom.

The wisdom of the course pursued by this Government toward China has been vindicated by the
event. Whilst we sustained a neutral position in the war waged by Great Britain and France
against the Chinese Empire, our late minister, in obedience to his instructions, judiciously
cooperated with the ministers of these powers in all peaceful measures to secure by treaty
the just concessions demanded by the interests of foreign commerce. The result is that satisfactory
treaties have been concluded with China by the respective ministers of the United States, Great
Britain, France, and Russia. Our "treaty, or general convention, of peace, amity, and commerce"
with that Empire was concluded at Tien-tsin on the 18th June, 1858, and was ratified by the
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, on the 21st December following.
On the 15th December, 1858, John E. Ward, a distinguished citizen of Georgia, was duly commissioned
as envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to China.

He left the United States for the place of his destination on the 5th of February, 1859, bearing
with him the ratified copy of this treaty, and arrived at Shanghai on the 28th May. From thence
he proceeded to Peking on the 16th June, but did not arrive in that city until the 27th July.
According to the terms of the treaty, the ratifications were to be exchanged on or before the
18th June, 1859. This was rendered impossible by reasons and events beyond his control, not
necessary to detail; but still it is due to the Chinese authorities at Shanghai to state that
they always assured him no advantage should be taken of the delay, and this pledge has been
faithfully redeemed.

On the arrival of Mr. Ward at Peking he requested an audience of the Emperor to present his
letter of credence. This he did not obtain, in consequence of his very proper refusal to submit
to the humiliating ceremonies required by the etiquette of this strange people in approaching
their sovereign. Nevertheless, the interviews on this question were conducted in the most friendly
spirit and with all due regard to his personal feelings and the honor of his country. When
a presentation to His Majesty was found to be impossible, the letter of credence from the President
was received with peculiar honors by Kweiliang, "the Emperor's prime minister and the second
man in the Empire to the Emperor himself." The ratifications of the treaty were afterwards,
on the 16th of August, exchanged in proper form at Peit-sang. As the exchange did not take
place until after the day prescribed by the treaty, it is deemed proper before its publication
again to submit it to the Senate. It is but simple justice to the Chinese authorities to observe
that throughout the whole transaction they appear to have acted in good faith and in a friendly
spirit toward the United States. It is true this has been done after their own peculiar fashion;
but we ought to regard with a lenient eye the ancient customs of an empire dating back for
thousands of years, so far as this may be consistent with our own national honor. The conduct
of our minister on the occasion has received my entire approbation.

In order to carry out the spirit of this treaty and to give it full effect it became necessary
to conclude two supplemental conventions, the one for the adjustment and satisfaction of the
claims of our citizens and the other to fix the tariff on imports and exports and to regulate
the transit duties and trade of our merchants with China. This duty was satisfactorily performed
by our late minister. These conventions bear date at Shanghai on the 8th November, 1858. Having
been considered in the light of binding agreements subsidiary to the principal treaty, and
to be carried into execution without delay, they do not provide for any formal ratification
or exchange of ratifications by the contracting parties. This was not deemed necessary by the
Chinese, who are already proceeding in good faith to satisfy the claims of our citizens and,
it is hoped, to carry out the other provisions of the conventions. Still, I thought it was
proper to submit them to the Senate by which they were ratified on the 3d of March, 1859. The
ratified copies, however, did not reach Shanghai until after the departure of our minister
to Peking, and these conventions could not, therefore, be exchanged at the same time with the
principal treaty. No doubt is entertained that they will be ratified and exchanged by the Chinese
Government should this be thought advisable; but under the circumstances presented I shall
consider them binding engagements from their date on both parties, and cause them to be published
as such for the information and guidance of our merchants trading with the Chinese Empire.

It affords me much satisfaction to inform you that all our difficulties with the Republic of
Paraguay have been satisfactorily adjusted. It happily did not become necessary to employ the
force for this purpose which Congress had placed at my command under the joint resolution of
2d June, 1858. On the contrary, the President of that Republic, in a friendly spirit, acceded
promptly to the just and reasonable demands of the Government of the United States. Our commissioner
arrived at Assumption, the capital of the Republic, on the 25th of January, 1859, and left
it on the 17th of February, having in three weeks ably and successfully accomplished all the
objects of his mission. The treaties which he has concluded will be immediately submitted to
the Senate.

In the view that the employment of other than peaceful means might become necessary to obtain
"just satisfaction" from Paraguay, a strong naval force was concentrated in the waters of the
La Plata to await contingencies whilst our commissioner ascended the rivers to Assumption.
The Navy Department is entitled to great credit for the promptness, efficiency, and economy
with which this expedition was fitted out and conducted. It consisted of 19 armed vessels,
great and small, carrying 200 guns and 2,500 men, all under the command of the veteran and
gallant Shubrick. The entire expenses of the expedition have been defrayed out of the ordinary
appropriations for the naval service, except the sum of $289,000, applied to the purchase of
seven of the steamers constituting a part of it, under the authority of the naval appropriation
act of the 3d March last. It is believed that these steamers are worth more than their cost,
and they are all now usefully and actively employed in the naval service.

The appearance of so large a force, fitted out in such a prompt manner, in the far-distant
waters of the La Plata, and the admirable conduct of the officers and men employed in it, have
had a happy effect in favor of our country throughout all that remote portion of the world.
In my last annual message I presented a statement of the unsatisfactory condition of our relations
with Spain, and I regret to say that this has not materially improved.

Without special reference to other claims, even the "Cuban claims," the payment of which has
been ably urged by our ministers, and in which more than a hundred of our citizens are directly
interested, remain unsatisfied, notwithstanding both their justice and their amount ($128,635.54)
had been recognized and ascertained by the Spanish Government itself. In common with two of
my predecessors, I entertain no doubt that this is required by our treaty with Spain of the
27th October, 1795. The failure to discharge this obligation has been employed by the cabinet
of Madrid as a reason against the settlement of our claims.

I need not repeat the arguments which I urged in my last annual message in favor of the acquisition
of Cuba by fair purchase. My opinions on that measure remain unchanged. I therefore again invite
the serious attention of Congress to this important subject. Without a recognition of this
policy on their part it will be almost impossible to institute negotiations with any reasonable
prospect of success. Until a recent period there was good reason to believe that I should be
able to announce to you on the present occasion that our difficulties with Great Britain arising
out of the Clayton and Bulwer treaty had been finally adjusted in a manner alike honorable
and satisfactory to both parties. From causes, however, which the British Government had not
anticipated, they have not yet completed treaty arrangements with the Republics of Honduras
and Nicaragua, in pursuance of the understanding between the two Governments. It is, nevertheless,
confidently expected that this good work will ere long be accomplished.

Whilst indulging the hope that no other subject remained which could disturb the good understanding
between the two countries, the question arising out of the adverse claims of the parties to
the island of San Juan, under the Oregon treaty of the 15th June, 1846, suddenly assumed a
threatening prominence. In order to prevent unfortunate collisions on that remote frontier,
the late Secretary of State, on the 17th July, 1855, addressed a note to Mr. Crampton, then
British minister at Washington, communicating to him a copy of the instructions which he (Mr.
Marcy) had given on the 14th July to Governor Stevens, of Washington Territory, having a special
reference to an "apprehended conflict between our citizens and the British subjects on the
island of San Juan." To prevent this the governor was instructed "that the officers of the
Territory should abstain from all acts on the disputed grounds which are calculated to provoke
any conflicts, so far as it can be done without implying the concession to the authorities
of Great Britain of an exclusive right over the premises. The title ought to be settled before
either party should attempt to exclude the other by force or exercise complete and exclusive
sovereign rights within the fairly disputed limits." In acknowledging the receipt on the next
day of Mr. Marcy's note the British minister expressed his entire concurrence "in the propriety
of the course recommended to the governor of Washington Territory by your [Mr. Marcy's] instructions
to that officer," and stating that he had "lost no time in transmitting a copy of that document
to the Governor-General of British North America" and had "earnestly recommended to His Excellency
to take such measures as to him may appear best calculated to secure on the part of the British
local authorities and the inhabitants of the neighborhood of the line in question the exercise
of the same spirit of forbearance which is inculcated by you [Mr. Marcy] on the authorities
and citizens of the United States."

Thus matters remained upon the faith of this arrangement until the 9th July last, when General
Harney paid a visit to the island. He found upon it twenty-five American residents with their
families, and also an establishment of the Hudsons Bay Company for the purpose of raising sheep.
A short time before his arrival one of these residents had shot an animal belonging to the
company whilst trespassing upon his premises, for which, however, he offered to pay twice its
value, but that was refused. Soon after "the chief factor of the company at Victoria, Mr. Dalles,
son-in-law of Governor Douglas, came to the island in the British sloop of war Satellite and
threatened to take this American [Mr. Cutler] by force to Victoria to answer for the trespass
he had committed. The American seized his rifle and told Mr. Dalles if any such attempt was
made he would kill him upon the spot. The affair then ended."

Under these circumstances the American settlers presented a petition to the General "through
the United States inspector of customs, Mr. Hubbs, to place a force upon the island to protect
them from the Indians as well as the oppressive interference of the authorities of the Hudsons
Bay Company at Victoria with their rights as American citizens." The General immediately responded
to this petition, and ordered Captain George E. Pickett, Ninth Infantry, "to establish his
company on Bellevue, or San Juan Island, on some suitable position near the harbor at the southeastern
extremity." This order was promptly obeyed and a military post was established at the place
designated. The force was afterwards increased, so that by the last return the whole number
of troops then on the island amounted in the aggregate to 691 men.

Whilst I do not deem it proper on the present occasion to go further into the subject and discuss
the weight which ought to be attached to the statements of the British colonial authorities
contesting the accuracy of the information on which the gallant General acted, it was due to
him that I should thus present his own reasons for issuing the order to Captain Pickett. From
these it is quite clear his object was to prevent the British authorities on Vancouvers Island
from exercising jurisdiction over American residents on the island of San Juan, as well as
to protect them against the incursions of the Indians. Much excitement prevailed for some time
throughout that region, and serious danger of collision between the parties was apprehended.
The British had a large naval force in the vicinity, and it is but an act of simple justice
to the admiral on that station to state that he wisely and discreetly forbore to commit any
hostile act, but determined to refer the whole affair to his Government and await their instructions.

This aspect of the matter, in my opinion, demanded serious attention. It would have been a
great calamity for both nations had they been precipitated into acts of hostility, not on the
question of title to the island, but merely concerning what should be its condition during
the intervening period whilst the two Governments might be employed in settling the question
to which of them it belongs. For this reason Lieutenant-General Scott was dispatched, on the
17th of September last, to Washington Territory to take immediate command of the United States
forces on the Pacific Coast, should he deem this necessary. The main object of his mission
was to carry out the spirit of the precautionary arrangement between the late Secretary of
State and the British minister, and thus to preserve the peace and prevent collision between
the British and American authorities pending the negotiations between the two Governments.
Entertaining no doubt of the validity of our title, I need scarcely add that in any event American
citizens were to be placed on a footing at least as favorable as that of British subjects,
it being understood that Captain Pickett's company should remain on the island. It is proper
to observe that, considering the distance from the scene of action and in ignorance of what
might have transpired on the spot before the General's arrival, it was necessary to leave much
to his discretion; and I am happy to state the event has proven that this discretion could
not have been intrusted to more competent hands. General Scott has recently returned from his
mission, having successfully accomplished its objects, and there is no longer any good reason
to apprehend a collision between the forces of the two countries during the pendency of the
existing negotiations. I regret to inform you that there has been no improvement in the affairs
of Mexico since my last annual message, and I am again obliged to ask the earnest attention
of Congress to the unhappy condition of that Republic.

The constituent Congress of Mexico, which adjourned on the 17th February, 1857, adopted a constitution
and provided for a popular election. This took place in the following July (1857), and General
Comonfort was chosen President almost without opposition. At the same election a new Congress
was chosen, whose first session commenced on the 16th of September (1857). By the constitution
of 1857 the Presidential term was to begin on the 1st of December (1857) and continue for four
years. On that day General Comonfort appeared before the assembled Congress in the City of
Mexico, took the oath to support the new constitution, and was duly inaugurated as President.
Within a month afterwards he had been driven from the capital and a military rebellion had
assigned the supreme power of the Republic to General Zuloaga. The constitution provided that
in the absence of the President his office should devolve upon the chief justice of the supreme
court; and General Comonfort having left the country, this functionary, General Juarez, proceeded
to form at Guanajuato a constitutional Government. Before this was officially known, however,
at the capital the Government of Zuloaga had been recognized by the entire diplomatic corps,
including the minister of the United States, as the de facto Government of Mexico. The constitutional
President, nevertheless, maintained his position with firmness, and was soon established, with
his cabinet, at Vera Cruz. Meanwhile the Government of Zuloaga was earnestly resisted in many
parts of the Republic, and even in the capital, a portion of the army having pronounced against
it, its functions were declared terminated, and an assembly of citizens was invited for the
choice of a new President. This assembly elected General Miramort, but that officer repudiated
the plan under which he was chosen, and Zuloaga was thus restored to his previous position.
He assumed it, however, only to withdraw from it; and Miramon, having become by his appointment
"President substitute," continues with that title at the head of the insurgent party.

In my last annual message I communicated to Congress the circumstances under which the late
minister of the United States suspended his official relations with the central Government
and withdrew from the country. It was impossible to maintain friendly intercourse with a government
like that at the capital, under whose usurped authority wrongs were constantly committed, but
never redressed. Had this been an established government, with its power extending by the consent
of the people over the whole of Mexico, a resort to hostilities against it would have been
quite justifiable, and, indeed, necessary. But the country was a prey to civil war, and it
was hoped that the success of the constitutional President might lead to a condition of things
less injurious to the United States. This success became so probable that in January last I
employed a reliable agent to visit Mexico and report to me the actual condition and prospects
of the contending parties. In consequence of his report and from information which reached
me from other sources favorable to the prospects of the constitutional cause, I felt justified
in appointing a new minister to Mexico, who might embrace the earliest suitable opportunity
of restoring our diplomatic relations with that Republic. For this purpose a distinguished
citizen of Maryland was selected, who proceeded on his mission on the 8th of March last, with
discretionary authority to recognize the Government of President Juarez if on his arrival in
Mexico he should find it entitled to such recognition according to the established practice
of the United States.

On the 7th of April following Mr. McLane presented his credentials to President Juarez, having
no hesitation "in pronouncing the Government of Juarez to be the only existing government of
the Republic." He was cordially received by the authorities at Vera Cruz, and they have ever
since manifested the most friendly disposition toward the United States.

Unhappily, however, the constitutional Government has not been able to establish its power
over the whole Republic. It is supported by a large majority of the people and the States,
but there are important parts of the country where it can enforce no obedience.

General Miramon maintains himself at the capital, and in some of the distant Provinces there
are military governors who pay little respect to the decrees of either Government. In the meantime
the excesses which always attend upon civil war, especially in Mexico, are constantly recurring.
Outrages of the worst description are committed both upon persons and property. There is scarcely
any form of injury which has not been suffered by our citizens in Mexico during the last few
years. We have been nominally at peace with that Republic, but "so far as the interests of
our commerce, or of our citizens who have visited the country as merchants, shipmasters, or
in other capacities, are concerned, we might as well have been at war." Life has been insecure,
property unprotected, and trade impossible except at a risk of loss which prudent men can not
be expected to incur. Important contracts, involving large expenditures, entered into by the
central Government, have been set at defiance by the local governments. Peaceful American residents,
occupying their rightful possessions, have been suddenly expelled the country, in defiance
of treaties and by the mere force of arbitrary power. Even the course of justice has not been
safe from control, and a recent decree of Miramort permits the intervention of Government in
all suits where either party is a foreigner. Vessels of the United States have been seized
without law, and a consular officer who protested against such seizure has been fined and imprisoned
for disrespect to the authorities. Military contributions have been levied in violation of
every principle of right, and the American who resisted the lawless demand has had his property
forcibly taken away and has been himself banished. From a conflict of authority in different
parts of the country tariff duties which have been paid in one place have been exacted over
again in another place. Large numbers of our citizens have been arrested and imprisoned without
any form of examination or any opportunity for a hearing, and even when released have only
obtained their liberty after much suffering and injury, and without any hope of redress. The
wholesale massacre of Crabbe and his associates without trial in Sonora, as well as the seizure
and murder of four sick Americans who had taken shelter in the house of an American upon the
soil of the United States, was communicated to Congress at its last session. Murders of a still
more atrocious character have been committed in the very heart of Mexico, under the authority
of Miramon's Government, during the present year. Some of these were only worthy of a barbarous
age, and if they had not been dearly proven would have seemed impossible in a country which
claims to be civilized. Of this description was the brutal massacre in April last, by order
of General Marquez, of three American physicians who were seized in the hospital at Tacubaya
while attending upon the sick and the dying of both parties, and without trial, as without
crime, were hurried away to speedy execution. Little less shocking was the recent fate of Ormond
Chase, who was shot in Tepic on the 7th of August by order of the same Mexican general, not
only without a trial, but without any conjecture by his friends of the cause of his arrest.
He is represented as a young man of good character and intelligence, who had made numerous
friends in Tepic by the courage and humanity which he had displayed on several trying occasions;
and his death was as unexpected as it was shocking to the whole community. Other outrages might
be enumerated, but these are sufficient to illustrate the wretched state of the country and
the unprotected condition of the persons and property of our citizens in Mexico.

In all these cases our ministers have been constant and faithful in their demands for redress,
but both they and this Government, which they have successively represented, have been wholly
powerless to make their demands effective. Their testimony in this respect and in reference
to the only remedy which in their judgments would meet the exigency has been both uniform and
emphatic. "Nothing but a manifestation of the power of the Government of the United States,"
wrote our late minister in 1856, "and of its purpose to punish these wrongs will avail. I assure
you that the universal belief here is that there is nothing to be apprehended from the Government
of the United States, and that local Mexican officials can commit these outrages upon American
citizens with absolute impunity." "I hope the President," wrote our present minister in August
last, "will feel authorized to ask from Congress the power to enter Mexico with the military
forces of the United States at the call of the constitutional authorities, in order to protect
the citizens and the treaty rights of the United States. Unless such a power is conferred upon
him, neither the one nor the other will be respected in the existing state of anarchy and disorder,
and the outrages already perpetrated will never be chastised; and, as I assured you in my No.
23, all these evils must increase until every vestige of order and government disappears from
the country." I have been reluctantly led to the same opinion, and in justice to my countrymen
who have suffered wrongs from Mexico and who may still suffer them I feel bound to announce
this conclusion to Congress.

The case presented, however, is not merely a case of individual claims, although our just claims
against Mexico have reached a very large amount; nor is it merely the case of protection to
the lives and property of the few Americans who may still remain in Mexico, although the life
and property of every American citizen ought to be sacredly protected in every quarter of the
world; but it is a question which relates to the future as well as to the present and the past,
and which involves, indirectly at least, the whole subject of our duty to Mexico as a neighboring
State. The exercise of the power of the United States in that country to redress the wrongs
and protect the rights of our own citizens is none the less to be desired because efficient
and necessary aid may thus be rendered at the same time to restore peace and order to Mexico
itself. In the accomplishment of this result the people of the United States must necessarily
feel a deep and earnest interest. Mexico ought to be a rich and prosperous and powerful Republic.
She possesses an extensive territory, a fertile soil, and an incalculable store of mineral
wealth. She occupies an important position between the Gulf and the ocean for transit routes
and for commerce. Is it possible that such a country as this can be given up to anarchy and
ruin without an effort from any quarter for its rescue and its safety? Will the commercial
nations of the world, which have so many interests connected with it, remain wholly indifferent
to such a result? Can the United States especially, which ought to share most largely in its
commercial intercourse, allow their immediate neighbor thus to destroy itself and injure them?
Yet without support from some quarter it is impossible to perceive how Mexico can resume her
position among nations and enter upon a career which promises any good results. The aid which
she requires, and which the interests of all commercial countries require that she should have,
it belongs to this Government to render, not only by virtue of our neighborhood to Mexico,
along whose territory we have a continuous frontier of nearly a thousand miles, but by virtue
also of our established policy, which is inconsistent with the intervention of any European
power in the domestic concerns of that Republic.

The wrongs which we have suffered from Mexico are before the world and must deeply impress
every American citizen. A government which is either unable or unwilling to redress such wrongs
is derelict to its highest duties. The difficulty consists in selecting and enforcing the remedy.
We may in vain apply to the constitutional Government at Vera Cruz, although it is well disposed
to do us justice, for adequate redress. Whilst its authority is acknowledged in all the important
ports and throughout the seacoasts of the Republic, its power does not extend to the City of
Mexico and the States in its vicinity, where nearly all the recent outrages have been committed
on American citizens. We must penetrate into the interior before we can reach the offenders,
and this can only be done by passing through the territory in the occupation of the constitutional
Government. The most acceptable and least difficult mode of accomplishing the object will be
to act in concert with that Government. Their consent and their aid might, I believe, be obtained;
but if not, our obligation to protect our own citizens in their just rights secured by treaty
would not be the less imperative. For these reasons I recommend to Congress to pass a law authorizing
the President under such conditions as they may deem expedient, to employ a sufficient military
force to enter Mexico for the purpose of obtaining indemnity for the past and security for
the future. I purposely refrain from any suggestion as to whether this force shall consist
of regular troops or volunteers, or both. This question may be most appropriately left to the
decision of Congress. I would merely observe that should volunteers be selected such a force
could be easily raised in this country among those who sympathize with the sufferings of our
unfortunate fellow-citizens in Mexico and with the unhappy condition of that Republic. Such
an accession to the forces of the constitutional Government would enable it soon to reach the
City of Mexico and extend its power over the whole Republic. In that event there is no reason
to doubt that the just claims of our citizens would be satisfied and adequate redress obtained
for the injuries inflicted upon them. The constitutional Government have ever evinced a strong
desire to do justice, and this might be secured in advance by a preliminary treaty.

It may be said that these measures will, at least indirectly, be inconsistent with our wise
and settled policy not to interfere in the domestic concerns of foreign nations. But does not
the present case fairly constitute an exception? An adjoining Republic is in a state of anarchy
and confusion from which she has proved wholly unable to extricate herself. She is entirely
destitute of the power to maintain peace upon her borders or to prevent the incursions of banditti
into our territory. In her fate and in her fortune, in her power to establish and maintain
a settled government, we have a far deeper interest, socially, commercially, and politically,
than any other nation. She is now a wreck upon the ocean, drifting about as she is impelled
by different factions. As a good neighbor, shall we not extend to her a helping hand to save
her? If we do not, it would not be surprising should some other nation undertake the task,
and thus force us to interfere at last, under circumstances of increased difficulty, for the
maintenance of our established policy.

I repeat the recommendation contained in my last annual message that authority may be given
to the President to establish one or more temporary military posts across the Mexican line
in Sonora and Chihuahua, where these may be necessary to protect the lives and property of
American and Mexican citizens against the incursions and depredations of the Indians, as well
as of lawless rovers, on that remote region. The establishment of one such post at a point
called Arispe, in Sonora, in a country now almost depopulated by the hostile inroads of the
Indians from our side of the line, would, it is believed, have prevented much injury and many
cruelties during the past season. A state of lawlessness and violence prevails on that distant
frontier. Life and property are there wholly insecure. The population of Arizona, now numbering
more than 10,000 souls, are practically destitute of government, of laws, or of any regular
administration of justice. Murder, rapine, and other crimes are committed with impunity. I
therefore again call the attention of Congress to the necessity for establishing a Territorial
government over Arizona.

The treaty with Nicaragua of the 16th of February, 1857, to which I referred in my last annual
message, failed to receive the ratification of the Government of that Republic, for reasons
which I need not enumerate. A similar treaty has been since concluded between the parties,
bearing date on the 16th March, 1859, which has already been ratified by the Nicaraguan Congress.
This will be immediately submitted to the Senate for their ratification. Its provisions can
not, I think, fail to be acceptable to the people of both countries.

Our claims against the Governments of Costa Rica and Nicaragua remain unredressed, though they
are pressed in an earnest manner and not without hope of success.

I deem it to be my duty once more earnestly to recommend to Congress the passage of a law authorizing
the President to employ the naval force at his command for the purpose of protecting the lives
and property of American citizens passing in transit across the Panama, Nicaragua, and Tehuantepec
routes against sudden and lawless outbreaks and depredations. I shall not repeat the arguments
employed in former messages in support of this measure. Suffice it to say that the lives of
many of our people and the security of vast amounts of treasure passing and repassing over
one or more of these routes between the Atlantic and Pacific may be deeply involved in the
action of Congress on this subject.

I would also again recommend to Congress that authority be given to the President to employ
the naval force to protect American merchant vessels, their crews and cargoes, against violent
and lawless seizure and confiscation in the ports of Mexico and the Spanish American States
when these countries may be in a disturbed and revolutionary condition. The mere knowledge
that such an authority had been conferred, as I have already stated, would of itself in a great
degree prevent the evil. Neither would this require any additional appropriation for the naval
service.

The chief objection urged against the grant of this authority is that Congress by conferring
it would violate the Constitution; that it would be a transfer of the war-making, or, strictly
speaking, the war-declaring, power to the Executive. If this were well rounded, it would, of
course, be conclusive. A very brief examination, however, will place this objection at rest.
But after Congress shall have declared war and provided the force necessary to carry it on
the President, as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, can alone employ this force in making
war against the enemy. This is the plain language, and history proves that it was the well-known
intention of the framers, of the Constitution.

It will not be denied that the general "power to declare war" is without limitation and embraces
within itself not only what writers on the law of nations term a public or perfect war, but
also an imperfect war, and, in short, every species of hostility, however confined or limited.
Without the authority of Congress the President can not fire a hostile gun in any case except
to repel the attacks of an enemy. It will not be doubted that under this power Congress could,
if they thought proper, authorize the President to employ the force at his command to seize
a vessel belonging to an American citizen which had been illegally and unjustly captured in
a foreign port and restore it to its owner. But can Congress only act after the fact, after
the mischief has been done? Have they no power to confer upon the President the authority in
advance to furnish instant redress should such a case afterwards occur? Must they wait until
the mischief has been done, and can they apply the remedy only when it is too late? To confer
this authority to meet future cases under circumstances strictly specified is as clearly within
the war-declaring power as such an authority conferred upon the President by act of Congress
after the deed had been done. In the progress of a great nation many exigencies must arise
imperatively requiring that Congress should authorize the President to act promptly on certain
conditions which may or may not afterwards arise. Our history has already presented a number
of such cases. I shall refer only to the latest. Under the resolution of June 2, 1858, "for
the adjustment of difficulties with the Republic of Paraguay," the President is "authorized
to adopt such measures and use such force as in his judgment may be necessary and advisable
in the event of a refusal of just satisfaction by the Government of Paraguay." "Just satisfaction"
for what? For "the attack on the United States steamer Water Witch" and "other matters referred
to in the annual message of the President." Here the power is expressly granted upon the condition
that the Government of Paraguay shall refuse to render this "just satisfaction." In this and
other similar cases Congress have conferred upon the President power in advance to employ the
Army and Navy upon the happening of contingent future events; and this most certainly is embraced
within the power to declare war.

Now, if this conditional and contingent power could be constitutionally conferred upon the
President in the case of Paraguay, why may it not be conferred for the purpose of protecting
the lives and property of American citizens in the event that they may be violently and unlawfully
attacked in passing over the transit routes to and from California or assailed by the seizure
of their vessels in a foreign port? To deny this power is to render the Navy in a great degree
useless for the protection of the lives and property of American citizens in countries where
neither protection nor redress can be otherwise obtained. I believe this is the first instance
since the origin of the Federal Government, now more than seventy years ago, when any Congress
went out of existence without having passed all the general appropriation bills necessary to
carry on the Government until the regular period for the meeting of a new Congress. This event
imposed on the Executive a grave responsibility. It presented a choice of evils.

Had this omission of duty occurred at the first session of the last Congress, the remedy would
have been plain. I might then have instantly recalled them to complete their work, and this
without expense to the Government. But on the 4th of March last there were fifteen of the thirty-three
States which had not elected any Representatives to the present Congress. Had Congress been
called together immediately, these States would have been virtually disfranchised. If an intermediate
period had been selected, several of the States would have been compelled to hold extra sessions
of their legislatures, at great inconvenience and expense, to provide for elections at an earlier
day than that previously fixed by law. In the regular course ten of these States would not
elect until after the beginning of August, and five of these ten not until October and November.

On the other hand, when I came to examine carefully the condition of the Post-Office Department,
I did not meet as many or as great difficulties as I had apprehended. Had the bill which failed
been confined to appropriations for the fiscal year ending on the 30th June next, there would
have been no reason of pressing importance for the call of an extra session. Nothing would
become due on contracts (those with railroad companies only excepted) for carrying the mail
for the first quarter of the present fiscal year, commencing on the 1st of July, until the
1st of December--less than one week before the meeting of the present Congress. The reason
is that the mail contractors for this and the current year did not complete their first quarter's
service until the 30th September last, and by the terms of their contracts sixty days more
are allowed for the settlement of their accounts before the Department could be called upon
for payment.

The great difficulty and the great hardship consisted in the failure to provide for the payment
of the deficiency in the fiscal year ending the 30th June, 1859. The Department had entered
into contracts, in obedience to existing laws, for the service of that fiscal year, and the
contractors were fairly entitled to their compensation as it became due. The deficiency as
stated in the bill amounted to $3,838,728, but after a careful settlement of all these accounts
it has been ascertained that it amounts to $4,296,009. With the scanty means at his command
the Postmaster-General has managed to pay that portion of this deficiency which occurred in
the first two quarters of the past fiscal year, ending on the 31st December last. In the meantime
the contractors themselves, under these trying circumstances, have behaved in a manner worthy
of all commendation. They had one resource in the midst of their embarrassments. After the
amount due to each of them had been ascertained and finally settled according to law, this
became a specific debt of record against the United States, which enabled them to borrow money
on this unquestionable security. Still, they were obliged to pay interest in consequence of
the default of Congress, and on every principle of justice ought to receive interest from the
Government. This interest should commence from the date when a warrant would have issued for
the payment of the principal had an appropriation been made for this purpose. Calculated up
to the 1st December, it will not exceed $96,660--a sum not to be taken into account when contrasted
with the great difficulties and embarrassments of a public and private character, both to the
people and the States, which would have resulted from convening and holding a special session
of Congress. For these reasons I recommend the passage of a bill at as early a day as may be
practicable to provide for the payment of the amount, with interest, due to these last-mentioned
contractors, as well as to make the necessary appropriations for the service of the Post-Office
Department for the current fiscal year.

The failure to pass the Post-Office bill necessarily gives birth to serious reflections. Congress,
by refusing to pass the general appropriation bills necessary to carry on the Government, may
not only arrest its action, but might even destroy its existence. The Army, the Navy, the judiciary,
in short, every department of the Government, can no longer perform their functions if Congress
refuse the money necessary for their support. If this failure should teach the country the
necessity of electing a full Congress in sufficient time to enable the President to convene
them in any emergency, even immediately after the old Congress has expired, it will have been
productive of great good. In a time of sudden and alarming danger, foreign or domestic, which
all nations must expect to encounter in their progress, the very salvation of our institutions
may be staked upon the assembling of Congress without delay. If under such circumstances the
President should find himself in the condition in which he was placed at the close of the last
Congress, with nearly half the States of the Union destitute of representatives, the consequences
might he disastrous. I therefore recommend to Congress to carry into effect the provisions
of the Constitution on this subject, and to pass a law appointing some day previous to the
4th March in each year of odd number for the election of Representatives throughout all the
States. They have already appointed a day for the election of electors for President and Vice-President,
and this measure has been approved by the country.

I would again express a most decided opinion in favor of the construction of a Pacific railroad,
for the reasons stated in my two last annual messages. When I reflect upon what would be the
defenseless condition of our States and Territories west of the Rocky Mountains in case of
a war with a naval power sufficiently strong to interrupt all intercourse with them by the
routes across the Isthmus, I am still more convinced than ever of the vast importance of this
railroad. I have never doubted the constitutional competency of Congress to provide for its
construction, but this exclusively under the war-making power. Besides, the Constitution expressly
requires as an imperative duty that "the United States shall protect each of them [the States]
against invasion." I am at a loss to conceive how this protection can be afforded to California
and Oregon against such a naval power by any other means. I repeat the opinion contained in
my last annual message that it would be inexpedient for the Government to undertake this great
work by agents of its own appointment and under its direct and exclusive control. The construction
of this road ought, therefore, to be intrusted to incorporated companies or other agencies
who would exercise that active and vigilant supervision over it which can be inspired alone
by a sense of corporate and individual interest. I venture to assert that the additional cost
of transporting troops, munitions of war, and necessary supplies for the Army across the vast
intervening plains to our possessions on the Pacific Coast would be greater in such a war than
the whole amount required to construct the road. And yet this resort would after all be inadequate
for their defense and protection.

We have yet scarcely recovered from the habits of extravagant expenditure produced by our overflowing
Treasury during several years prior to the commencement of my Administration. The financial
reverses which we have since experienced ought to teach us all to scrutinize our expenditures
with the greatest vigilance and to reduce them to the lowest possible point. The Executive
Departments of the Government have devoted themselves to the accomplishment of this object
with considerable success, as will appear from their different reports and estimates. To these
I invite the scrutiny of Congress, for the purpose of reducing them still lower, if this be
practicable consistent with the great public interests of the country. In aid of the policy
of retrenchment, I pledge myself to examine closely the bills appropriating lands or money,
so that if any of these should inadvertently pass both Houses, as must sometimes be the case,
I may afford them an opportunity for reconsideration. At the same time, we ought never to forget
that true public economy consists not in withholding the means necessary to accomplish important
national objects confided to us by the Constitution, but in taking care that the money appropriated
for these purposes shall be faithfully and frugally expended.

It will appear from the report of the Secretary of the Treasury that it is extremely doubtful,
to say the least, whether we shall be able to pass through the present and the next fiscal
year without providing additional revenue. This can only be accomplished by strictly confining
the appropriations within the estimates of the different Departments, without making an allowance
for any additional expenditures which Congress may think proper, in their discretion, to authorize,
and without providing for the redemption of any portion of the $20,000,000 of Treasury notes
which have been already issued. In the event of a deficiency, which I consider probable, this
ought never to be supplied by a resort to additional loans. It would be a ruinous practice
in the days of peace and prosperity to go on increasing the national debt to meet the ordinary
expenses of the Government. This policy would cripple our resources and impair our credit in
case the existence of war should render it necessary to borrow money. Should such a deficiency
occur as I apprehend, I would recommend that the necessary revenue be raised by an increase
of our present duties on imports. I need not repeat the opinions expressed in my last annual
message as to the best mode and manner of accomplishing this object, and shall now merely observe
that these have since undergone no change.

The public expenditures during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1859, amounted to $83,751,511.57.
Of this sum $17,405,285.44 were applied to the payment of interest on the public debt and the
redemption of the issues of Treasury notes. The expenditures for all other branches of the
public service during that fiscal year were therefore $66,346,226.13. The balance remaining
in the Treasury on the 1st July, 1859, being the commencement of the present fiscal year, was
$4,339,275.54. The receipts into the Treasury during the first quarter of the present fiscal
year, commencing July 1, 1859, were $20,618,865.85. Of this amount $3,821,300 was received
on account of the loan and the issue of Treasury notes, the amount of $16,797,565.85 having
been received during the quarter from the ordinary sources of public revenue. The estimated
receipts for the remaining three quarters of the present fiscal year, to June 30, 1860, are
$50,426,400. Of this amount it is estimated that $5,756,400 will be received for Treasury notes
which may be reissued under the fifth section of the act of 3d March last, and $1,170,000 on
account of the loan authorized by the act of June 14, 1858, making $6,926,400 from these extraordinary
sources, and $43,500,000 from the ordinary sources of the public revenue, making an aggregate,
with the balance in the Treasury on the 1st July, 1859, of $75,384,541.89 for the estimated
means of the present fiscal year, ending June 30, 1860.

The expenditures during the first quarter of the present fiscal year were $20,007,174.76. The
estimated expenditures during the remaining three quarters, to June 30, 1860, are $40,995,558.23,
of which sum $2,886,621.34 are estimated for the interest on the public debt.

The estimated receipts during the next fiscal year, ending June 30, 1861, are $66,225,000,
which, with the balance estimated, as before stated, as remaining in the Treasury on the 30th
June, 1860, will make an aggregate for the service of the next fiscal year of $80,606,808.40.

The estimated expenditures during the next fiscal year, ending 30th June, 1861, are $66,714,928.79.
Of this amount $3,386,621.34 will be required to pay the interest on the public debt, leaving
the sum of $63,328,307.45 for the estimated ordinary expenditures during the fiscal year ending
30th June, 1861. Upon these estimates a balance will be left in the Treasury on the 30th June,
1861, of $13,891,879.61. But this balance, as well as that estimated to remain in the Treasury
on the 1st July, 1860, will be reduced by such appropriations as shall be made by law to carry
into effect certain Indian treaties during the present fiscal year, asked for by the Secretary
of the Interior, to the amount of $539,350; and upon the estimates of the postmaster-General
for the service of his Department the last fiscal year, ending 30th June, 1859, amounting to
$4,296,009, together with the further estimate of that officer for the service of the present
fiscal year, ending 30th June, 1860, being $5,526,324, making an aggregate of $10,361,683.

Should these appropriations be made as requested by the proper Departments, the balance in
the Treasury on the 30th June, 1861, will not, it is estimated, exceed $3,530,196.61. It will
appear from the report of the Secretary of War that the Army expenditures have been materially
reduced by a system of rigid economy, which in his opinion offers every guaranty that the reduction
will be permanent. The estimates of the Department for the next have been reduced nearly $2,000,000
below the estimates for the present fiscal year and $500,000 below the amount granted for this
year at the last session of Congress.

The expenditures of the Post-Office Department during the past fiscal year, ending on the 30th
June, 1859, exclusive of payments for mail service specially provided for by Congress out of
the general Treasury, amounted to $14,964,493.33 and its receipts to $7,968,484.07, showing
a deficiency to be supplied from the Treasury of $6,996,009.26, against $5,235,677.15 for the
year ending 30th June, 1858. The increased cost of transportation, growing out of the expansion
of the service required by Congress, explains this rapid augmentation of the expenditures.
It is gratifying, however, to observe an increase of receipts for the year ending on the 30th
of June, 1859, equal to $481,691.21 compared with those in the year ending on the 30th June, 1858.

It is estimated that the deficiency for the current fiscal year will be $5,988,424.04, but
that for the year ending 30th June, 1861, it will not exceed $1,342,473.90 should Congress
adopt the measures of reform proposed and urged by the Postmaster-General. Since the month
of March retrenchments have been made in the expenditures amounting to $1,826,471 annually,
which, however, did not take effect until after the commencement of the present fiscal year.
The period seems to have arrived for determining the question whether this Department shall
become a permanent and ever-increasing charge upon the Treasury, or shall be permitted to resume
the self-sustaining policy which had so long controlled its administration. The course of legislation
recommended by the Postmaster-General for the relief of the Department from its present embarrassments
and for restoring it to its original independence is deserving of your early and earnest consideration.

In conclusion I would again commend to the just liberality of Congress the local interests
of the District of Columbia. Surely the city bearing the name of Washington, and destined,
I trust, for ages to be the capital of our united, free, and prosperous Confederacy, has strong
claims on our favorable regard.

***

State of the Union Address James Buchanan December 3, 1860

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Throughout the year since our last meeting the country has been eminently prosperous in all
its material interests. The general health has been excellent, our harvests have been abundant,
and plenty smiles throughout the laud. Our commerce and manufactures have been prosecuted with
energy and industry, and have yielded fair and ample returns. In short, no nation in the tide
of time has ever presented a spectacle of greater material prosperity than we have done until
within a very recent period.

Why is it, then, that discontent now so extensively prevails, and the Union of the States,
which is the source of all these blessings, is threatened with destruction?

The long-continued and intemperate interference of the Northern people with the question of
slavery in the Southern States has at length produced its natural effects. The different sections
of the Union are now arrayed against each other, and the time has arrived, so much dreaded
by the Father of his Country, when hostile geographical parties have been formed.

I have long foreseen and often forewarned my countrymen of the now impending danger. This does
not proceed solely from the claim on the part of Congress or the Territorial legislatures to
exclude slavery from the Territories, nor from the efforts of different States to defeat the
execution of the fugitive-slave law. All or any of these evils might have been endured by the
South without danger to the Union (as others have been) in the hope that time and reflection
might apply the remedy. The immediate peril arises not so much from these causes as from the
fact that the incessant and violent agitation of the slavery question throughout the North
for the last quarter of a century has at length produced its malign influence on the slaves
and inspired them with vague notions of freedom. Hence a sense of security no longer exists
around the family altar. This feeling of peace at home has given place to apprehensions of
servile insurrections. Many a matron throughout the South retires at night in dread of what
may befall herself and children before the morning. Should this apprehension of domestic danger,
whether real or imaginary, extend and intensify itself until it shall pervade the masses of
the Southern people, then disunion will become inevitable. Self-preservation is the first law
of nature, and has been implanted in the heart of man by his Creator for the wisest purpose;
and no political union, however fraught with blessings and benefits in all other respects,
can long continue if the necessary consequence be to render the homes and the firesides of
nearly half the parties to it habitually and hopelessly insecure. Sooner or later the bonds
of such a union must be severed. It is my conviction that this fatal period has not yet arrived,
and my prayer to God is that He would preserve the Constitution and the Union throughout all
generations.

But let us take warning in time and remove the cause of danger. It can not be denied that for
five and twenty years the agitation at the North against slavery has been incessant. In 1835
pictorial handbills and inflammatory appeals were circulated extensively throughout the South
of a character to excite the passions of the slaves, and, in the language of General Jackson,
"to stimulate them to insurrection and produce all the horrors of a servile war." This agitation
has ever since been continued by the public press, by the proceedings of State and county conventions
and by abolition sermons and lectures. The time of Congress has been occupied in violent speeches
on this never-ending subject, and appeals, in pamphlet and other forms, indorsed by distinguished
names, have been sent forth from this central point and spread broadcast over the Union.

How easy would it be for the American people to settle the slavery question forever and to
restore peace and harmony to this distracted country! They, and they alone, can do it. All
that is necessary to accomplish the object, and all for which the slave States have ever contended,
is to be let alone and permitted to manage their domestic institutions in their own way. As
sovereign States, they, and they alone, are responsible before God and the world for the slavery
existing among them. For this the people of the North are not more responsible and have no
more fight to interfere than with similar institutions in Russia or in Brazil.

Upon their good sense and patriotic forbearance I confess I still greatly rely. Without their
aid it is beyond the power of any President, no matter what may be his own political proclivities,
to restore peace and harmony among the States. Wisely limited and restrained as is his power
under our Constitution and laws, he alone can accomplish but little for good or for evil on
such a momentous question.

And this brings me to observe that the election of any one of our fellow-citizens to the office
of President does not of itself afford just cause for dissolving the Union. This is more especially
true if his election has been effected by a mere plurality, and not a majority of the people,
and has resulted from transient and temporary causes, which may probably never again occur.
In order to justify a resort to revolutionary resistance, the Federal Government must be guilty
of "a deliberate, palpable, and dangerous exercise" of powers not granted by the Constitution.

The late Presidential election, however, has been held in strict conformity with its express
provisions. How, then, can the result justify a revolution to destroy this very Constitution?
Reason, justice, a regard for the Constitution, all require that we shall wait for some overt
and dangerous act on the part of the President elect before resorting to such a remedy. It
is said, however, that the antecedents of the President-elect have been sufficient to justify
the fears of the South that he will attempt to invade their constitutional rights. But are
such apprehensions of contingent danger in the future sufficient to justify the immediate destruction
of the noblest system of government ever devised by mortals? From the very nature of his office
and its high responsibilities he must necessarily be conservative. The stern duty of administering
the vast and complicated concerns of this Government affords in itself a guaranty that he will
not attempt any violation of a clear constitutional right.

After all, he is no more than the chief executive officer of the Government. His province is
not to make but to execute the laws. And it is a remarkable fact in our history that, notwithstanding
the repeated efforts of the antislavery party, no single act has ever passed Congress, unless
we may possibly except the Missouri compromise, impairing in the slightest degree the rights
of the South to their property in slaves; and it may also be observed, judging from present
indications, that no probability exists of the passage of such an act by a majority of both
Houses, either in the present or the next Congress. Surely under these circumstances we ought
to be restrained from present action by the precept of Him who spake as man never spoke, that
"sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." The day of evil may never come unless we shall
rashly bring it upon ourselves.

It is alleged as one cause for immediate secession that the Southern States are denied equal
rights with the other States in the common Territories. But by what authority are these denied?
Not by Congress, which has never passed, and I believe never will pass, any act to exclude
slavery from these Territories; and certainly not by the Supreme Court, which has solemnly
decided that slaves are property, and, like all other property, their owners have a right to
take them into the common Territories and hold them there under the protection of the Constitution.

So far then, as Congress is concerned, the objection is not to anything they have already done,
but to what they may do hereafter. It will surely be admitted that this apprehension of future
danger is no good reason for an immediate dissolution of the Union. It is true that the Territorial
legislature of Kansas, on the 23d February, 1860, passed in great haste an act over the veto
of the governor declaring that slavery "is and shall be forever prohibited in this Territory."
Such an act, however, plainly violating the rights of property secured by the Constitution,
will surely be declared void by the judiciary whenever it shall be presented in a legal form.

Only three days after my inauguration the Supreme Court of the United States solemnly adjudged
that this power did not exist in a Territorial legislature. Yet such has been the factious
temper of the times that the correctness of this decision has been extensively impugned before
the people, and the question has given rise to angry political conflicts throughout the country.
Those who have appealed from this judgment of our highest constitutional tribunal to popular
assemblies would, if they could, invest a Territorial legislature with power to annul the sacred
rights of property. This power Congress is expressly forbidden by the Federal Constitution
to exercise. Every State legislature in the Union is forbidden by its own constitution to exercise
it. It can not be exercised in any State except by the people in their highest sovereign capacity,
when framing or amending their State constitution. In like manner it can only be exercised
by the people of a Territory represented in a convention of delegates for the purpose of framing
a constitution preparatory to admission as a State into the Union. Then, and not until then,
are they invested with power to decide the question whether slavery shall or shall not exist
within their limits. This is an act of sovereign authority, and not of subordinate Territorial
legislation. Were it otherwise, then indeed would the equality of the States in the Territories
be destroyed, and the rights of property in slaves would depend not upon the guaranties of
the Constitution, but upon the shifting majorities of an irresponsible Territorial legislature.
Such a doctrine, from its intrinsic unsoundness, can not long influence any considerable portion
of our people, much less can it afford a good reason for a dissolution of the Union.

The most palpable violations of constitutional duty which have yet been committed consist in
the acts of different State legislatures to defeat the execution of the fugitive-slave law.
It ought to be remembered, however, that for these acts neither Congress nor any President
can justly be held responsible. Having been passed in violation of the Federal Constitution,
they are therefore null and void. All the courts, both State and national, before whom the
question has arisen have from the beginning declared the fugitive-slave law to be constitutional.
The single exception is that of a State court in Wisconsin, and this has not only been reversed
by the proper appellate tribunal, but has met with such universal reprobation that there can
be no danger from it as a precedent. The validity of this law has been established over and
over again by the Supreme Court of the United States with perfect unanimity. It is rounded
upon an express provision of the Constitution, requiring that fugitive slaves who escape from
service in one State to another shall be "delivered up" to their masters. Without this provision
it is a well-known historical fact that the Constitution itself could never have been adopted
by the Convention. In one form or other, under the acts of 1793 and 1850, both being substantially
the same, the fugitive-slave law has been the law of the land from the days of Washington until
the present moment. Here, then, a clear case is presented in which it will be the duty of the
next President, as it has been my own, to act with vigor in executing this supreme law against
the conflicting enactments of State legislatures. Should he fail in the performance of this
high duty, he will then have manifested a disregard of the Constitution and laws, to the great
injury of the people of nearly one-half of the States of the Union. But are we to presume in
advance that he will thus violate his duty? This would be at war with every principle of justice
and of Christian charity. Let us wait for the overt act. The fugitive-slave law has been carried
into execution in every contested case since the commencement of the present Administration,
though Often, it is to be regretted, with great loss and inconvenience to the master and with
considerable expense to the Government. Let us trust that the State legislatures will repeal
their unconstitutional and obnoxious enactments. Unless this shall be done without unnecessary
delay, it is impossible for any human power to save the Union.

The Southern States, standing on the basis of the Constitution, have right to demand this act
of justice from the States of the North. Should it be refused, then the Constitution, to which
all the States are parties, will have been willfully violated by one portion of them in a provision
essential to the domestic security and happiness of the remainder. In that event the injured
States, after having first used all peaceful and constitutional means to obtain redress, would
be justified in revolutionary resistance to the Government of the Union.

I have purposely confined my remarks to revolutionary resistance, because it has been claimed
within the last few years that any State, whenever this shall be its sovereign will and pleasure,
may secede from the Union in accordance with the Constitution and without any violation of
the constitutional rights of the other members of the Confederacy; that as each became parties
to the Union by the vote of its own people assembled in convention, so any one of them may
retire from the Union in a similar manner by the vote of such a convention.

In order to justify secession as a constitutional remedy, it must be on the principle that
the Federal Government is a mere voluntary association of States, to be dissolved at pleasure
by any one of the contracting parties. If this be so, the Confederacy is a rope of sand, to
be penetrated and dissolved by the first adverse wave of public opinion in any of the States.
In this manner our thirty-three States may resolve themselves into as many petty, jarring,
and hostile republics, each one retiring from the Union without responsibility whenever any
sudden excitement might impel them to such a course. By this process a Union might be entirely
broken into fragments in a few weeks which cost our forefathers many years of toil, privation,
and blood to establish.

Such a principle is wholly inconsistent with the history as well as the character of the Federal
Constitution. After it was framed with the greatest deliberation and care it was submitted
to conventions of the people of the several States for ratification. Its provisions were discussed
at length in these bodies, composed of the first men of the country. Its opponents contended
that it conferred powers upon the Federal Government dangerous to the rights of the States,
whilst its advocates maintained that under a fair construction of the instrument there was
no foundation for such apprehensions. In that mighty struggle between the first intellects
of this or any other country it never occurred to any individual, either among its opponents
or advocates, to assert or even to intimate that their efforts were all vain labor, because
the moment that any State felt herself aggrieved she might secede from the Union. What a crushing
argument would this have proved against those who dreaded that the rights of the States would
be endangered by the Constitution! The truth is that it was not until many years after the
origin of the Federal Government that such a proposition was first advanced. It was then met
and refuted by the conclusive arguments of General Jackson, who in his message of the 16th
of January, 1833, transmitting the nullifying ordinance of South Carolina to Congress, employs
the following language:

The right of the people of a single State to absolve themselves at will and without the consent
of the other States from their most solemn obligations, and hazard the liberties and happiness
of the millions composing this Union, can not be acknowledged. Such authority is believed to
be utterly repugnant both to the principles upon which the General Government is constituted
and to the objects which it is expressly formed to attain.

It is not pretended that any clause in the Constitution gives countenance to such a theory.
It is altogether rounded upon inference; not from any language contained in the instrument
itself, but from the sovereign character of the several States by which it was ratified. But
is it beyond the power of a State, like an individual, to yield a portion of its sovereign
rights to secure the remainder? In the language of Mr. Madison, who has been called the father
of the Constitution--

It was formed by the States; that is, by the people in each of the States acting in their highest
sovereign capacity, and formed, consequently, by the same authority which formed the State
constitutions. Nor is the Government of the United States, created by the Constitution, less
a government, in the strict sense of the term, within the sphere of its powers than the governments
created by the constitutions of the States are within their several spheres. It is, like them,
organized into legislative, executive, and judiciary departments. It operates, like them directly
on persons and things, and, like them, it has at command a physical force for executing the
powers committed to it.

It was intended to be perpetual, and not to be annulled at the pleasure of any one of the contracting
parties. The old Articles of Confederation were entitled "Articles of Confederation and Perpetual
Union between the States," and by the thirteenth article it is expressly declared that "the
articles of this Confederation shall be inviolably observed by every State, and the Union shall
be perpetual." The preamble to the Constitution of the United States, having express reference
to the Articles of Confederation, recites that it was established "in order to form a more
perfect union." And yet it is contended that this "more perfect union" does not include the
essential attribute of perpetuity.

But that the Union was designed to be perpetual appears conclusively from the nature and extent
of the powers conferred by the Constitution on the Federal Government. These powers embrace
the very highest attributes of national sovereignty. They place both the sword and the purse
under its control. Congress has power to make war and to make peace, to raise and support armies
and navies, and to conclude treaties with foreign governments. It is invested with the power
to coin money and to regulate the value thereof, and to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States. It is not necessary to enumerate the other high powers which
have been conferred upon the Federal Government. In order to carry the enumerated powers into
effect, Congress possesses the exclusive right to lay and collect duties on imports, and, in
common with the States, to lay and collect all other taxes.

But the Constitution has not only conferred these high powers upon Congress, but it has adopted
effectual means to restrain the States from interfering with their exercise. Moreover--

No State shall without the consent of the Congress lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws.

And if they exceed this amount the excess shall belong, to the United States. And--

No State shall without the consent of Congress lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops or ships
of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact with another State or with a foreign
power, or engage in war, unless actually invaded or in such imminent danger as will not admit
of delay.

In order still further to secure the uninterrupted exercise of these high powers against State
interposition, it is provided that--

This Constitution and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof,
and all treaties made or which shall be made under the authority of the United States, shall
be the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything
in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.

The solemn sanction of religion has been superadded to the obligations of official duty, and
all Senators and Representatives of the United States, all members of State legislatures, and
all executive and judicial officers, "both of the United States and of the several States,
shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support this Constitution."

In order to carry into effect these powers, the Constitution has established a perfect Government
in all its forms--legislative, executive, and judicial; and this Government to the extent of
its powers acts directly upon the individual citizens of every State, and executes its own
decrees by the agency of its own officers. In this respect it differs entirely from the Government
under the old Confederation, which was confined to making requisitions on the States in their
sovereign character. This left it in the discretion of each whether to obey or to refuse, and
they often declined to comply with such requisitions. It thus became necessary for the purpose
of removing this barrier and "in order to form a more perfect union" to establish a Government
which could act directly upon the people and execute its own laws without the intermediate
agency of the States. This has been accomplished by the Constitution of the United States.
In short, the Government created by the Constitution, and deriving its authority from the sovereign
people of each of the several States, has precisely the same right to exercise its power over
the people of all these States in the enumerated cases that each one of them possesses over
subjects not delegated to the United States, but "reserved to the States respectively or to
the people."

To the extent of the delegated powers the Constitution of the United States is as much a part
of the constitution of each State and is as binding upon its people as though it had been textually
inserted therein.

This Government, therefore, is a great and powerful Government, invested with all the attributes
of sovereignty over the special subjects to which its authority extends. Its framers never
intended to implant in its bosom the seeds of its own destruction, nor were they at its creation
guilty of the absurdity of providing for its own dissolution. It was not intended by its framers
to be the baseless fabric of a vision, which at the touch of the enchanter would vanish into
thin air, but a substantial and mighty fabric, capable of resisting the slow decay of time
and of defying the storms of ages. Indeed, well may the jealous patriots of that day have indulged
fears that a Government of such high powers might violate the reserved rights of the States,
and wisely did they adopt the rule of a strict construction of these powers to prevent the
danger. But they did not fear, nor had they any reason to imagine, that the Constitution would
ever be so interpreted as to enable any State by her own act, and without the consent of her
sister States, to discharge her people from all or any of their federal obligations.

It may be asked, then, Are the people of the States without redress against the tyranny and
oppression of the Federal Government? By no means. The right of resistance on the part of the
governed against the oppression of their governments can not be denied. It exists independently
of all constitutions, and has been exercised at all periods of the world's history. Under it
old governments have been destroyed and new ones have taken their place. It is embodied in
strong and express language in our own Declaration of Independence. But the distinction must
ever be observed that this is revolution against an established government, and not a voluntary
secession from it by virtue of an inherent constitutional right. In short, let us look the
danger fairly in the face. Secession is neither more nor less than revolution. It may or it
may not be a justifiable revolution, but still it is revolution.

What, in the meantime, is the responsibility and true position of the Executive? He is bound
by solemn oath, before God and the country, "to take care that the laws be faithfully executed,"
and from this obligation he can not be absolved by any human power. But what if the performance
of this duty, in whole or in part, has been rendered impracticable by events over which he
could have exercised no control? Such at the present moment is the case throughout the State
of South Carolina so far as the laws of the United States to secure the administration of justice
by means of the Federal judiciary are concerned. All the Federal officers within its limits
through whose agency alone these laws can be carried into execution have already resigned.
We no longer have a district judge, a district attorney, or a marshal in South Carolina. In
fact, the whole machinery of the Federal Government necessary for the distribution of remedial
justice among the people has been demolished, and it would be difficult, if not impossible,
to replace it.

The only acts of Congress on the statute book bearing upon this subject are those of February
28, 1795, and March 3, 1807. These authorize the President, after he shall have ascertained
that the marshal, with his posse comitatus, is unable to execute civil or criminal process
in any particular case, to call forth the militia and employ the Army and Navy to aid him in
performing this service, having first by proclamation commanded the insurgents "to disperse
and retire peaceably to their respective abodes within a limited time" This duty can not by
possibility be performed in a State where no judicial authority exists to issue process, and
where there is no marshal to execute it, and where, even if there were such an officer, the
entire population would constitute one solid combination to resist him.

The bare enumeration of these provisions proves how inadequate they are without further legislation
to overcome a united opposition in a single State, not to speak of other States who may place
themselves in a similar attitude. Congress alone has power to decide whether the present laws
can or can not be amended so as to carry out more effectually the objects of the Constitution.

The same insuperable obstacles do not lie in the way of executing the laws for the collection
of the customs. The revenue still continues to be collected as heretofore at the custom-house
in Charleston, and should the collector unfortunately resign a successor may be appointed to
perform this duty.

Then, in regard to the property of the United States in South Carolina. This has been purchased
for a fair equivalent, "by the consent of the legislature of the State," "for the erection
of forts, magazines, arsenals," etc., and over these the authority "to exercise exclusive legislation"
has been expressly granted by the Constitution to Congress. It is not believed that any attempt
will be made to expel the United States from this property by force; but if in this I should
prove to be mistaken, the officer in command of the forts has received orders to act strictly
on the defensive. In such a contingency the responsibility for consequences would rightfully
rest upon the heads of the assailants.

Apart from the execution of the laws, so far as this may be practicable, the Executive has
no authority to decide what shall be the relations between the Federal Government and South
Carolina. He has been invested with no such discretion. He possesses no power to change the
relations heretofore existing between them, much less to acknowledge the independence of that
State. This would be to invest a mere executive officer with the power of recognizing the dissolution
of the confederacy among our thirty-three sovereign States. It bears no resemblance to the
recognition of a foreign de facto government, involving no such responsibility. Any attempt
to do this would, on his part, be a naked act of usurpation. It is therefore my duty to submit
to Congress the whole question in all its beatings. The course of events is so rapidly hastening
forward that the emergency may soon arise when you may be called upon to decide the momentous
question whether you possess the power by force of arms to compel a State to remain in the
Union. I should feel myself recreant to my duty were I not to express an opinion on this important
subject.

The question fairly stated is, Has the Constitution delegated to Congress the power to coerce
a State into submission which is attempting to withdraw or has actually withdrawn from the
Confederacy? If answered in the affirmative, it must be on the principle that the power has
been conferred upon Congress to declare and to make war against a State. After much serious
reflection I have arrived at the conclusion that no such power has been delegated to Congress
or to any other department of the Federal Government. It is manifest upon an inspection of
the Constitution that this is not among the specific and enumerated powers granted to Congress,
and it is equally apparent that its exercise is not "necessary and proper for carrying into
execution" any one of these powers. So far from this power having been delegated to Congress,
it was expressly refused by the Convention which framed the Constitution.

It appears from the proceedings of that body that on the 31st May, 1787, the clause "authorizing
an exertion of the force of the whole against a delinquent State" came up for consideration.
Mr. Madison opposed it in a brief but powerful speech, from which I shall extract but a single
sentence. He observed:

The use of force against a State would look more like a declaration of war than an infliction
of punishment, and would probably be considered by the party attacked as a dissolution of all
previous compacts by which it might be bound.

Upon his motion the clause was unanimously postponed, and was never, I believe, again presented.
Soon afterwards, on the 8th June, 1787, when incidentally adverting to the subject, he said:
"Any government for the United States formed on the supposed practicability of using force
against the unconstitutional proceedings of the States would prove as visionary and fallacious
as the government of Congress," evidently meaning the then existing Congress of the old Confederation.

Without descending to particulars, it may be safely asserted that the power to make war against
a State is at variance with the whole spirit and intent of the Constitution. Suppose such a
war should result in the conquest of a State; how are we to govern it afterwards? Shall we
hold it as a province and govern it by despotic power? In the nature of things, we could not
by physical force control the will of the people and compel them to elect Senators and Representatives
to Congress and to perform all the other duties depending upon their own volition and required
from the free citizens of a free State as a constituent member of the Confederacy.

But if we possessed this power, would it be wise to exercise it under existing circumstances?
The object would doubtless be to preserve the Union. War would not only present the most effectual
means of destroying it, but would vanish all hope of its peaceable reconstruction. Besides,
in the fraternal conflict a vast amount of blood and treasure would be expended, rendering
future reconciliation between the States impossible. In the meantime, who can foretell what
would be the sufferings and privations of the people during its existence?

The fact is that our Union rests upon public opinion, and can never be cemented by the blood
of its citizens shed in civil war. If it can not live in the affections of the people, it must
one day perish. Congress possesses many means of preserving it by conciliation, but the sword
was not placed in their hand to preserve it by force.

But may I be permitted solemnly to invoke my countrymen to pause and deliberate before they
determine to destroy this the grandest temple which has ever been dedicated to human freedom
since the world began? It has been consecrated by the blood of our fathers, by the glories
of the past, and by the hopes of the future. The Union has already made us the most prosperous,
and ere long will, if preserved, render us the most powerful, nation on the face of the earth.
In every foreign region of the globe the title of American citizen is held in the highest respect,
and when pronounced in a foreign land it causes the hearts of our countrymen to swell with
honest pride. Surely when we reach the brink of the yawning abyss we shall recoil with horror
from the last fatal plunge.

By such a dread catastrophe the hopes of the friends of freedom throughout the world would
be destroyed, and a long night of leaden despotism would enshroud the nations. Our example
for more than eighty years would not only be lost, but it would be quoted as a conclusive proof
that man is unfit for self-government.

It is not every wrong--nay, it is not every grievous wrong--which can justify a resort to such
a fearful alternative. This ought to be the last desperate remedy of a despairing people, after
every other constitutional means of conciliation had been exhausted. We should reflect that
under this free Government there is an incessant ebb and flow in public opinion. The slavery
question, like everything human, will have its day. I firmly believe that it has reached and
passed the culminating point. But if in the midst of the existing excitement the Union shall
perish, the evil may then become irreparable.

Congress can contribute much to avert it by proposing and recommending to the legislatures
of the several States the remedy for existing evils which the Constitution has itself provided
for its own preservation. This has been tried at different critical periods of our history,
and always with eminent success. It is to be found in the fifth article, providing for its
own amendment. Under this article amendments have been proposed by two-thirds of both Houses
of Congress, and have been "ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States,"
and have consequently become parts of the Constitution. To this process the country is indebted
for the clause prohibiting Congress from passing any law respecting an establishment of religion
or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press or of the right of petition. To this we
are also indebted for the bill of rights which secures the people against any abuse of power
by the Federal Government. Such were the apprehensions justly entertained by the friends of
State rights at that period as to have rendered it extremely doubtful whether the Constitution
could have long survived without those amendments.

Again the Constitution was amended by the same process, after the election of President Jefferson
by the House of Representatives, in February, 1803. This amendment was rendered necessary to
prevent a recurrence of the dangers which had seriously threatened the existence of the Government
during the pendency of that election. The article for its own amendment was intended to secure
the amicable adjustment of conflicting constitutional questions like the present which might
arise between the governments of the States and that of the United States. This appears from
contemporaneous history. In this connection I shall merely call attention to a few sentences
in Mr. Madison's justly celebrated report, in 1799, to the legislature of Virginia. In this
he ably and conclusively defended the resolutions of the preceding legislature against the
strictures of several other State legislatures. These were mainly rounded upon the protest
of the Virginia legislature against the "alien and sedition acts," as "palpable and alarming
infractions of the Constitution." In pointing out the peaceful and constitutional remedies--and
he referred to none other--to which the States were authorized to resort on such occasions,
he concludes by saying that--

The legislatures of the States might have made a direct representation to Congress with a view
to obtain a rescinding of the two offensive acts, or they might have represented to their respective
Senators in Congress their wish that two-thirds thereof would propose an explanatory amendment
to the Constitution; or two-thirds of themselves, if such had been their option, might by an
application to Congress have obtained a convention for the same object.

This is the very course which I earnestly recommend in order to obtain an "explanatory amendment"
of the Constitution on the subject of slavery. This might originate with Congress or the State
legislatures, as may be deemed most advisable to attain the object. The explanatory amendment
might be confined to the final settlement of the true construction of the Constitution on three
special points:

1. An express recognition of the right of property in slaves in the States where it now exists
or may hereafter exist.

2. The duty of protecting this right in all the common Territories throughout their Territorial
existence, and until they shall be admitted as States into the Union, with or without slavery,
as their constitutions may prescribe.

3. A like recognition of the right of the master to have his slave who has escaped from one
State to another restored and "delivered up" to him, and of the validity of the fugitive-slave
law enacted for this purpose, together with a declaration that all State laws impairing or
defeating this right are violations of the Constitution, and are consequently null and void.
It may be objected that this construction of the Constitution has already been settled by the
Supreme Court of the United States, and what more ought to be required? The answer is that
a very large proportion of the people of the United States still contest the correctness of
this decision, and never will cease from agitation and admit its binding force until clearly
established by the people of the several States in their sovereign character. Such an explanatory
amendment would, it is believed, forever terminate the existing dissensions, and restore peace
and harmony among the States.

It ought not to be doubted that such an appeal to the arbitrament established by the Constitution
itself would be received with favor by all the States of the Confederacy. In any event, it
ought to be tried in a spirit of conciliation before any of these States shall separate themselves
from the Union.

When I entered upon the duties of the Presidential office, the aspect neither of our foreign
nor domestic affairs was at all satisfactory. We were involved in dangerous complications with
several nations, and two of our Territories were in a state of revolution against the Government.
A restoration of the African slave trade had numerous and powerful advocates. Unlawful military
expeditions were countenanced by many of our citizens, and were suffered, in defiance of the
efforts of the Government, to escape from our shores for the purpose of making war upon the
offending people of neighboring republics with whom we were at peace. In addition to these
and other difficulties, we experienced a revulsion in monetary affairs soon after my advent
to power of unexampled severity and of ruinous consequences to all the great interests of the
country. When we take a retrospect of what was then our condition and contrast this with its
material prosperity at the time of the late Presidential election, we have abundant reason
to return our grateful thanks to that merciful Providence which has never forsaken us as a
nation in all our past trials.

Our relations with Great Britain are of the most friendly character. Since the commencement
of my Administration the two dangerous questions arising from the Clayton and Bulwer treaty
and from the right of search claimed by the British Government have been amicably and honorably
adjusted.

The discordant constructions of the Clayton and Bulwer treaty between the two Governments,
which at different periods of the discussion bore a threatening aspect, have resulted in a
final settlement entirely satisfactory to this Government. This confident expectation has since
been fulfilled. Her Britannic Majesty concluded a treaty with Honduras on the 28th November,
1859, and with Nicaragua on the 28th August, 1860, relinquishing the Mosquito protectorate.
Besides, by the former the Bay Islands are recognized as a part of the Republic of Honduras.
It may be observed that the stipulations of these treaties conform in every important particular
to the amendments adopted by the Senate of the United States to the treaty concluded at London
on the 17th October, 1856, between the two Governments. It will be recollected that this treaty
was rejected by the British Government because of its objection to the just and important amendment
of the Senate to the article relating to Ruatan and the other islands in the Bay of Honduras.

It must be a source of sincere satisfaction to all classes of our fellow-citizens, and especially
to those engaged in foreign commerce, that the claim on the part of Great Britain forcibly
to visit and search American merchant vessels on the high seas in time of peace has been abandoned.
This was by far the most dangerous question to the peace of the two countries which has existed
since the War of 1812. Whilst it remained open they might at any moment have been precipitated
into a war. This was rendered manifest by the exasperated state of public feeling throughout
our entire country produced by the forcible search of American merchant vessels by British
cruisers on the coast of Cuba in the spring of 1858. These orders might have produced an immediate
collision between the naval forces of the two countries. This was most fortunately prevented
by an appeal to the justice of Great Britain and to the law of nations as expounded by her
own most eminent jurists.

The only question of any importance which still remains open is the disputed title between
the two Governments to the island of San Juan, in the vicinity of Washington Territory. As
this question is still under negotiation, it is not deemed advisable at the present moment
to make any other allusion to the subject.

The recent visit of the Prince of Wales, in a private character, to the people of this country
has proved to be a most auspicious event. In its consequences it can not fail to increase the
kindred and kindly feelings which I trust may ever actuate the Government and people of both
countries in their political and social intercourse with each other.

With France, our ancient and powerful ally, our relations continue to be of the most friendly
character. A decision has recently been made by a French judicial tribunal, with the approbation
of the Imperial Government, which can not fail to foster the sentiments of mutual regard that
have so long existed between the two countries. Under the French law no person can serve in
the armies of France unless he be a French citizen. The law of France recognizing the natural
right of expatriation, it follows as a necessary consequence that a Frenchman by the fact of
having become a citizen of the United States has changed his allegiance and has lost his native
character. He can not therefore be compelled to serve in the French armies in case he should
return to his native country. These principles were announced in 1852 by the French minister
of war and in two late cases have been confirmed by the French judiciary. In these, two natives
of France have been discharged from the French army because they had become American citizens.
To employ the language of our present minister to France, who has rendered good service on
this occasion. "I do not think our French naturalized fellow-citizens will hereafter experience
much annoyance on this subject."

I venture to predict that the time is not far distant when the other continental powers will
adopt the same wise and just policy which has done so much honor to the enlightened Government
of the Emperor. In any event, our Government is bound to protect the rights of our naturalized
citizens everywhere to the same extent as though they had drawn their first breath in this
country. We can recognize no distinction between our native and naturalized citizens.

Between the great Empire of Russia and the United States the mutual friendship and regard which
has so long existed still continues to prevail, and if possible to increase. Indeed, our relations
with that Empire are all that we could desire. Our relations with Spain are now of a more complicated,
though less dangerous, character than they have been for many years. Our citizens have long
held and continue to hold numerous claims against the Spanish Government. These had been ably
urged for a series of years by our successive diplomatic representatives at Madrid, but without
obtaining redress. The Spanish Government finally agreed to institute a joint commission for
the adjustment of these claims, and on the 5th day of March, 1860, concluded a convention for
this purpose with our present minister at Madrid.

Under this convention what have been denominated the "Cuban claims," amounting to $128,635.54,
in which more than 100 of our fellow-citizens are interested, were recognized, and the Spanish
Government agreed to pay $100,000 of this amount "within three months following the exchange
of ratifications." The payment of the remaining $28,635.54 was to await the decision of the
commissioners for or against the Amistad claim; but in any event the balance was to be paid
to the claimants either by Spain or the United States. These terms, I have every reason to
know, are highly satisfactory to the holders of the Cuban claims. Indeed, they have made a
formal offer authorizing the State Department to settle these claims and to deduct the amount
of the Amistad claim from the sums which they are entitled to receive from Spain. This offer,
of course, can not be accepted. All other claims of citizens of the United States against Spain,
or the subjects of the Queen of Spain against the United States, including the Amistad claim,
were by this convention referred to a board of commissioners in the usual form. Neither the
validity of the Amistad claim nor of any other claim against either party, with the single
exception of the Cuban claims, was recognized by the convention. Indeed, the Spanish Government
did not insist that the validity of the Amistad claim should be thus recognized, notwithstanding
its payment had been recommended to Congress by two of my predecessors, as well as by myself,
and an appropriation for that purpose had passed the Senate of the United States.

They were content that it should be submitted to the board for examination and decision like
the other claims. Both Governments were bound respectively to pay the amounts awarded to the
several claimants "at such times and places as may be fixed by and according to the tenor of
said awards."

I transmitted this convention to the Senate for their constitutional action on the 3d of May,
1860, and on the 27th of the succeeding June they determined that they would "not advise and
consent" to its ratification.

These proceedings place our relations with Spain in an awkward and embarrassing position. It
is more than probable that the final adjustment of these claims will devolve upon my successor.

I reiterate the recommendation contained in my annual message of December, 1858, and repeated
in that of December, 1859, in favor of the acquisition of Cuba from Spain by fair purchase.
I firmly believe that such an acquisition would contribute essentially to the well-being and
prosperity of both countries in all future time, as well as prove the certain means of immediately
abolishing the African slave trade throughout the world. I would not repeat this recommendation
upon the present occasion if I believed that the transfer of Cuba to the United States upon
conditions highly favorable to Spain could justly tarnish the national honor of the proud and
ancient Spanish monarchy. Surely no person ever attributed to the first Napoleon a disregard
of the national honor of France for transferring Louisiana to the United States for a fair
equivalent, both in money and commercial advantages.

With the Emperor of Austria and the remaining continental powers of Europe, including that
of the Sultan, our relations continue to be of the most friendly character.

The friendly and peaceful policy pursued by the Government of the United States toward the
Empire of China has produced the most satisfactory results. The treaty of Tien-tsin of the
18th June, 1858, has been faithfully observed by the Chinese authorities. The convention of
the 8th November, 1858, supplementary to this treaty, for the adjustment and satisfaction of
the claims of our citizens on China referred to in my last annual message, has been already
carried into effect so far as this was practicable. Under this convention the sum of 500,000
taels, equal to about $700,000, was stipulated to be paid in satisfaction of the claims of
American citizens out of the one-fifth of the receipts for tonnage, import, and export duties
on American vessels at the ports of Canton, Shanghai, and Fuchau, and it was "agreed that this
amount shall be in full liquidation of all claims of American citizens at the various ports
to this date." Debentures for this amount, to wit, 300,000 taels for Canton, 100,000 for Shanghai,
and 100,000 for Fuchau, were delivered, according to the terms of the convention, by the respective
Chinese collectors of the customs of these ports to the agent selected by our minister to receive
the same. Since that time the claims of our citizens have been adjusted by the board of commissioners
appointed for that purpose under the act of March 3, 1859, and their awards, which proved satisfactory
to the claimants, have been approved by our minister. In the aggregate they amount to the sum
of $498,694.78. The claimants have already received a large proportion of the sums awarded
to them out of the fund provided, and it is confidently expected that the remainder will ere
long be entirely paid. After the awards shall have been satisfied there will remain a surplus
of more than $200,000 at the disposition of Congress. As this will, in equity, belong to the
Chinese Government, would not justice require its appropriation to some benevolent object in
which the Chinese may be specially interested?

Our minister to China, in obedience to his instructions, has remained perfectly neutral in
the war between Great Britain and France and the Chinese Empire, although, in conjunction with
the Russian minister, he was ever ready and willing, had the opportunity offered, to employ
his good offices in restoring peace between the parties. It is but an act of simple justice,
both to our present minister and his predecessor, to state that they have proved fully equal
to the delicate, trying, and responsible positions in which they have on different occasions
been placed.

The ratifications of the treaty with Japan concluded at Yeddo on the 29th July, 1858, were
exchanged at Washington on the 22d May last, and the treaty itself was proclaimed on the succeeding
day. There is good reason to expect that under its protection and influence our trade and intercourse
with that distant and interesting people will rapidly increase.

The ratifications of the treaty were exchanged with unusual solemnity. For this purpose the
Tycoon had accredited three of his most distinguished subjects as envoys extraordinary and
ministers plenipotentiary, who were received and treated with marked distinction and kindness,
both by the Government and people of the United States. There is every reason to believe that
they have returned to their native land entirely satisfied with their visit and inspired by
the most friendly feelings for our country. Let us ardently hope, in the language of the treaty
itself, that "there shall henceforward be perpetual peace and friendship between the United
States of America and His Majesty the Tycoon of Japan and his successors."

With the wise, conservative, and liberal Government of the Empire of Brazil our relations continue
to be of the most amicable character.

The exchange of the ratifications of the convention with the Republic of New Granada signed
at Washington on the 10th of September, 1857, has been long delayed from accidental causes
for which neither party is censurable. These ratifications were duly exchanged in this city
on the 5th of November last. Thus has a controversy been amicably terminated which had become
so serious at the period of my inauguration as to require me, on the 17th of April, 1857, to
direct our minister to demand his passports and return to the United States.

Under this convention the Government of New Granada has specially acknowledged itself to be
responsible to our citizens "for damages which were caused by the riot at Panama on the 15th
April, 1856." These claims, together with other claims of our citizens which had been long
urged in vain, are referred for adjustment to a board of commissioners. I submit a copy of
the convention to Congress, and recommend the legislation necessary to carry it into effect.

Persevering efforts have been made for the adjustment of the claims of American citizens against
the Government of Costa Rica, and I am happy to inform you that these have finally prevailed.
A convention was signed at the city of San Jose on the 2d July last, between the minister resident
of the United States in Costa Rica and the plenipotentiaries of that Republic, referring these
claims to a board of commissioners and providing for the payment of their awards. This convention
will be submitted immediately to the Senate for their constitutional action.

The claims of our citizens upon the Republic of Nicaragua have not yet been provided for by
treaty, although diligent efforts for this purpose have been made by our minister resident
to that Republic. These are still continued, with a fair prospect of success.

Our relations with Mexico remain in a most unsatisfactory condition. In my last two annual
messages I discussed extensively the subject of these relations, and do not now propose to
repeat at length the facts and arguments then presented. They proved conclusively that our
citizens residing in Mexico and our merchants trading thereto had suffered a series of wrongs
and outrages such as we have never patiently borne from any other nation. For these our successive
ministers, invoking the faith of treaties, had in the name of their country persistently demanded
redress and indemnification, but without the slightest effect. Indeed, so confident had the
Mexican authorities become of our patient endurance that they universally believed they might
commit these outrages upon American citizens with absolute impunity. Thus wrote our minister
in 1856, and expressed the opinion that "nothing but a manifestation of the power of the Government
and of its purpose to punish these wrongs will avail."

Afterwards, in 1857, came the adoption of a new constitution for Mexico, the election of a
President and Congress under its provisions, and the inauguration of the President. Within
one short month, however, this President was expelled from the capital by a rebellion in the
army, and the supreme power of the Republic was assigned to General Zuloaga. This usurper was
in his turn soon compelled to retire and give place to General Miramon.

Under the constitution which had thus been adopted Senor Juarez, as chief justice of the supreme
court, became the lawful President of the Republic, and it was for the maintenance of the constitution
and his authority derived from it that the civil war commenced and still continues to be prosecuted.

Throughout the year 1858 the constitutional party grew stronger and stronger. In the previous
history of Mexico a successful military revolution at the capital had almost universally been
the signal for submission throughout the Republic. Not so on the present occasion. A majority
of the citizens persistently sustained the constitutional Government. When this was recognized,
in April, 1859, by the Government of the United States, its authority extended over a large
majority of the Mexican States and people, including Vera Cruz and all the other important
seaports of the Republic. From that period our commerce with Mexico began to revive, and the
constitutional Government has afforded it all the protection in its power.

Meanwhile the Government of Miramon still held sway at the capital and over the surrounding
country, and continued its outrages against the few American citizens who still had the courage
to remain within its power. To cap the climax, after the battle of Tacubaya, in April, 1859,
General Marquez ordered three citizens of the United States, two of them physicians, to be
seized in the hospital at that place, taken out and shot, without crime and without trial.
This was done, notwithstanding our unfortunate countrymen were at the moment engaged in the
holy cause of affording relief to the soldiers of both parties who had been wounded in the
battle, without making any distinction between them.

The time had arrived, in my opinion, when this Government was bound to exert its power to avenge
and redress the wrongs of our citizens and to afford them protection in Mexico. The interposing
obstacle was that the portion of the country under the sway of Miramon could not be reached
without passing over territory under the jurisdiction of the constitutional Government. Under
these circumstances I deemed it my duty to recommend to Congress in my last annual message
the employment of a sufficient military force to penetrate into the interior, where the Government
of Miramon was to be found, with or, if need be, without the consent of the Juarez Government,
though it was not doubted that this consent could be obtained. Never have I had a clearer conviction
on any subject than of the justice as well as wisdom of such a policy. No other alternative
was left except the entire abandonment of our fellow-citizens who had gone to Mexico under
the faith of treaties to the systematic injustice, cruelty, and oppression of Miramon's Government.
Besides, it is almost certain that the simple authority to employ this force would of itself
have accomplished all our objects without striking a single blow. The constitutional Government
would then ere this have been established at the City of Mexico, and would have been ready
and willing to the extent of its ability to do us justice.

In addition--and I deem this a most important consideration--European Governments would have
been deprived of all pretext to interfere in the territorial and domestic concerns of Mexico.
We should thus have been relieved from the obligation of resisting, even by force should this
become necessary, any attempt by these Governments to deprive our neighboring Republic of portions
of her territory--a duty from which we could not shrink without abandoning the traditional
and established policy of the American people. I am happy to observe that, firmly relying upon
the justice and good faith of these Governments, there is no present danger that such a contingency
will happen.

Having discovered that my recommendations would not be sustained by Congress, the next alternative
was to accomplish in some degree, if possible, the same objects by treaty stipulations with
the constitutional Government. Such treaties were accordingly concluded by our late able and
excellent minister to Mexico, and on the 4th of January last were submitted to the Senate for
ratification. As these have not yet received the final action of that body, it would be improper
for me to present a detailed statement of their provisions. Still, I may be permitted to express
the opinion in advance that they are calculated to promote the agricultural, manufacturing,
and commercial interests of the country and to secure our just influence with an adjoining
Republic as to whose fortunes and fate we can never feel indifferent, whilst at the same time
they provide for the payment of a considerable amount toward the satisfaction of the claims
of our injured fellow-citizens.

At the period of my inauguration I was confronted in Kansas by a revolutionary government existing
under what is called the "Topeka constitution." Its avowed object was to subdue the Territorial
government by force and to inaugurate what was called the "Topeka government" in its stead.
To accomplish this object an extensive military organization was formed, and its command intrusted
to the most violent revolutionary leaders. Under these circumstances it became my imperative
duty to exert the whole constitutional power of the Executive to prevent the flames of civil
war from again raging in Kansas, which in the excited state of the public mind, both North
and South, might have extended into the neighboring States. The hostile parties in Kansas had
been inflamed against each other by emissaries both from the North and the South to a degree
of malignity without parallel in our history. To prevent actual collision and to assist the
civil magistrates in enforcing the laws, a strong detachment of the Army was stationed in the
Territory, ready to aid the marshal and his deputies when lawfully called upon as a posse comitatus
in the execution of civil and criminal process. Still, the troubles in Kansas could not have
been permanently settled without an election by the people.

The ballot box is the surest arbiter of disputes among freemen. Under this conviction every
proper effort was employed to induce the hostile parties to vote at the election of delegates
to frame a State constitution, and afterwards at the election to decide whether Kansas should
be a slave or free State.

The insurgent party refused to vote at either, lest this might be considered a recognition
on their part of the Territorial government established by Congress. A better spirit, however,
seemed soon after to prevail, and the two parties met face to face at the third election, held
on the first Monday of January, 1858, for members of the legislature and State officers under
the Lecompton constitution. The result was the triumph of the antislavery party at the polls.
This decision of the ballot box proved clearly that this party were in the majority, and removed
the danger of civil war. From that time we have heard little or nothing of the Topeka government,
and all serious danger of revolutionary troubles in Kansas was then at an end.

The Lecompton constitution, which had been thus recognized at this State election by the votes
of both political parties in Kansas, was transmitted to me with the request that I should present
it to Congress. This I could not have refused to do without violating my clearest and strongest
convictions of duty. The constitution and all the proceedings which preceded and followed its
formation were fair and regular on their face. I then believed, and experience has proved,
that the interests of the people of Kansas would have been best consulted by its admission
as a State into the Union, especially as the majority within a brief period could have amended
the constitution according to their will and pleasure. If fraud existed in all or any of these
proceedings, it was not for the President but for Congress to investigate and determine the
question of fraud and what ought to be its consequences. If at the first two elections the
majority refused to vote, it can not be pretended that this refusal to exercise the elective
franchise could invalidate an election fairly held under lawful authority, even if they had
not subsequently voted at the third election. It is true that the whole constitution had not
been submitted to the people, as I always desired; but the precedents are numerous of the admission
of States into the Union without such submission. It would not comport with my present purpose
to review the proceedings of Congress upon the Lecompton constitution. It is sufficient to
observe that their final action has removed the last vestige of serious revolutionary troubles.
The desperate hand recently assembled under a notorious outlaw in the southern portion of the
Territory to resist the execution of the laws and to plunder peaceful citizens will, I doubt
not be speedily subdued and brought to justice.

Had I treated the Lecompton constitution as a nullity and refused to transmit it to Congress,
it is not difficult to imagine, whilst recalling the position of the country at that moment,
what would have been the disastrous consequences, both in and out of the Territory, from such
a dereliction of duty on the part of the Executive.

Peace has also been restored within the Territory of Utah, which at the commencement of my
Administration was in a state of open rebellion. This was the more dangerous, as the people,
animated by a fanatical spirit and intrenched within their distant mountain fastnesses, might
have made a long and formidable resistance. Cost what it might, it was necessary to bring them
into subjection to the Constitution and the laws. Sound policy, therefore, as well as humanity,
required that this object should if possible be accomplished without the effusion of blood.
This could only be effected by sending a military force into the Territory sufficiently strong
to convince the people that resistance would be hopeless, and at the same time to offer them
a pardon for past offenses on condition of immediate submission to the Government. This policy
was pursued with eminent success, and the only cause for regret is the heavy expenditure required
to march a large detachment of the Army to that remote region and to furnish it subsistence.

Utah is now comparatively peaceful and quiet, and the military force has been withdrawn, except
that portion of it necessary to keep the Indians in check and to protect the emigrant trains
on their way to our Pacific possessions.

In my first annual message I promised to employ my best exertions in cooperation with Congress
to reduce the expenditures of the Government within the limits of a wise and judicious economy.
An overflowing Treasury had produced habits of prodigality and extravagance which could only
be gradually corrected. The work required both time and patience. I applied myself diligently
to this task from the beginning and was aided by the able and energetic efforts of the heads
of the different Executive Departments. The result of our labors in this good cause did not
appear in the sum total of our expenditures for the first two years, mainly in consequence
of the extraordinary expenditure necessarily incurred in the Utah expedition and the very large
amount of the contingent expenses of Congress during this period. These greatly exceeded the
pay and mileage of the members. For the year ending June 30, 1858, whilst the pay and mileage
amounted to $1,490,214, the contingent expenses rose to $2,093,309.79; and for the year ending
June 30, 1859, whilst the pay and mileage amounted to $859,093.66, the contingent expenses
amounted to $1,431,565.78. I am happy, however, to be able to inform you that during the last
fiscal year, ending June 30, 1860, the total expenditures of the Government in all its branches--legislative,
executive, and judicial--exclusive of the public debt, were reduced to the sum of $55,402,465.46.
This conclusively appears from the books of the Treasury. In the year ending June 30, 1858,
the total expenditure, exclusive of the public debt, amounted to $71,901,129.77, and that for
the year ending June 30, 1859, to $66,346,226.13. Whilst the books of the Treasury show an
actual expenditure of $59,848,474.72 for the year ending June 30, 1860, including $1,040,667.71
for the contingent expenses of Congress, there must be deducted from this amount the sum of
$4,296,009.26, with the interest upon it of $150,000, appropriated by the act of February 15,
1860, "for the purpose of supplying the deficiency in the revenues and defraying the expenses
of the Post-Office Department for the year ending June 30, 1859." This sum therefore justly
chargeable to the year 1859, must be deducted from the sum of $59,848,474.72 in order to ascertain
the expenditure for the year ending June 30, 1860, which leaves a balance for the expenditures
of that year of $55,402,465.46. The interest on the public debt, including Treasury notes,
for the same fiscal year, ending June 30, 1860, amounted to $3,177,314.62, which, added to
the above sum of $55,402,465.46, makes the aggregate of $58,579,780.08.

It ought in justice to be observed that several of the estimates from the Departments for the
year ending June 30, 1860, were reduced by Congress below what was and still is deemed compatible
with the public interest. Allowing a liberal margin of $2,500,000 for this reduction and for
other causes, it may be safely asserted that the sum of $61,000,000, or, at the most, $62,000,000,
is amply sufficient to administer the Government and to pay the interest on the public debt,
unless contingent events should hereafter render extraordinary expenditures necessary.

This result has been attained in a considerable degree by the care exercised by the appropriate
Departments in entering into public contracts. I have myself never interfered with the award
of any such contract, except in a single case, with the Colonization Society, deeming it advisable
to cast the whole responsibility in each case on the proper head of the Department, with the
general instruction that these contracts should always be given to the lowest and best bidder.
It has ever been my opinion that public contracts are not a legitimate source of patronage
to be conferred upon personal or political favorites, but that in all such cases a public officer
is bound to act for the Government as a prudent individual would act for himself.

It is with great satisfaction I communicate the fact that since the date of my last annual
message not a single slave has been imported into the United States in violation of the laws
prohibiting the African slave trade. This statement is rounded upon a thorough examination
and investigation of the subject. Indeed, the spirit which prevailed some time since among
a portion of our fellow-citizens in favor of this trade seems to have entirely subsided.

I also congratulate you upon the public sentiment which now exists against the crime of setting
on foot military expeditions within the limits of the United States to proceed from thence
and make war upon the people of unoffending States with whom we are at peace. In this respect
a happy change has been effected since the commencement of my Administration. It surely ought
to be the prayer of every Christian and patriot that such expeditions may never again receive
countenance in our country or depart from our shores.

It would be a useless repetition to do more than refer with earnest commendation to my former
recommendations in favor of the Pacific railroad; of the grant of power to the President to
employ the naval force in the vicinity for the protection of the lives and property of our
fellow-citizens passing in transit over the different Central American routes against sudden
and lawless outbreaks and depredations, and also to protect American merchant vessels, their
crews and cargoes, against violent and unlawful seizure and confiscation in the ports of Mexico
and the South American Republics when these may be in a disturbed and revolutionary condition.
It is my settled conviction that without such a power we do not afford that protection to those
engaged in the commerce of the country which they have a right to demand. A similar power has
already been exercised, with general approbation, in the appointment of the same day throughout
the Union for holding the election of electors for President and Vice-President of the United
States. My attention was earnestly directed to this subject from the fact that the Thirty-fifth
Congress terminated on the 3d March, 1859, without making the necessary appropriation for the
service of the Post-Office Department. I was then forced to consider the best remedy for this
omission, and an immediate call of the present Congress was the natural resort. Upon inquiry,
however, I ascertained that fifteen out of the thirty-three States composing the Confederacy
were without Representatives, and that consequently these fifteen States would be disfranchised
by such a call. These fifteen States will be in the same condition on the 4th March next. Ten
of them can not elect Representatives, according to existing State laws, until different periods,
extending from the beginning of August next until the months of October and November. In my
last message I gave warning that in a time of sudden and alarming danger the salvation of our
institutions might depend upon the power of the President immediately to assemble a full Congress
to meet the emergency.

It is now quite evident that the financial necessities of the Government will require a modification
of the tariff during your present session for the purpose of increasing the revenue. In this
aspect, I desire to reiterate the recommendation contained in my last two annual messages in
favor of imposing specific instead of ad valorem duties on all imported articles to which these
can be properly applied. From long observation and experience I am convinced that specific
duties are necessary, both to protect the revenue and to secure to our manufacturing interests
that amount of incidental encouragement which unavoidably results from a revenue tariff.

As an abstract proposition it may be admitted that ad valorem duties would in theory be the
most just and equal. But if the experience of this and of all other commercial nations has
demonstrated that such duties can not be assessed and collected without great frauds upon the
revenue, then it is the part of wisdom to resort to specific duties. Indeed, from the very
nature of an ad valorem duty this must be the result. Under it the inevitable consequence is
that foreign goods will be entered at less than their true value. The Treasury will therefore
lose the duty on the difference between their real and fictitious value, and to this extent
we are defrauded.

The temptations which ad valorem duties present to a dishonest importer are irresistible. His
object is to pass his goods through the custom-house at the very lowest valuation necessary
to save them from confiscation. In this he too often succeeds in spite of the vigilance of
the revenue officers. Hence the resort to false invoices, one for the purchaser and another
for the custom-house, and to other expedients to defraud the Government. The honest importer
produces his invoice to the collector, stating the actual price at which he purchased the articles
abroad. Not so the dishonest importer and the agent of the foreign manufacturer. And here it
may be observed that a very large proportion of the manufactures imported from abroad are consigned
for sale to commission merchants, who are mere agents employed by the manufacturers. In such
cases no actual sale has been made to fix their value. The foreign manufacturer, if he be dishonest,
prepares an invoice of the goods, not at their actual value, but at the very lowest rate necessary
to escape detection. In this manner the dishonest importer and the foreign manufacturer enjoy
a decided advantage over the honest merchant. They are thus enabled to undersell the fair trader
and drive him from the market. In fact the operation of this system has already driven from
the pursuits of honorable commerce many of that class of regular and conscientious merchants
whose character throughout the world is the pride of our country.

The remedy for these evils is to be found in specific duties, so far as this may be practicable.
They dispense with any inquiry at the custom-house into the actual cost or value of the article,
and it pays the precise amount of duty previously fixed by law. They present no temptations
to the appraisers of foreign goods, who receive but small salaries, and might by undervaluation
in a few cases render themselves independent.

Besides, specific duties best conform to the requisition in the Constitution that "no preference
shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those
of another." Under our ad valorem system such preferences are to some extent inevitable, and
complaints have often been made that the spirit of this provision has been violated by a lower
appraisement of the same articles at one port than at another.

An impression strangely enough prevails to some extent that specific duties are necessarily
protective duties. Nothing can be more fallacious. Great Britain glories in free trade, and
yet her whole revenue from imports is at the present moment collected under a system of specific
duties. It is a striking fact in this connection that in the commercial treaty of January 23,
1860, between France and England one of the articles provides that the ad valorem duties which
it imposes shall be converted into specific duties within six months from its date, and these
are to be ascertained by making an average of the prices for six months previous to that time.
The reverse of the propositions would be nearer to the truth, because a much larger amount
of revenue would be collected by merely converting the ad valorem duties of a tariff into equivalent
specific duties. To this extent the revenue would be increased, and in the same proportion
the specific duty might be diminished.

Specific duties would secure to the American manufacturer the incidental protection to which
he is fairly entitled under a revenue tariff, and to this surely no person would object. The
framers of the existing tariff have gone further, and in a liberal spirit have discriminated
in favor of large and useful branches of our manufactures, not by raising the rate of duty
upon the importation of similar articles from abroad, but, what is the same in effect, by admitting
articles free of duty which enter into the composition of their fabrics.

Under the present system it has been often truly remarked that this incidental protection decreases
when the manufacturer needs it most and increases when he needs it least, and constitutes a
sliding scale which always operates against him. The revenues of the country are subject to
similar fluctuations. Instead of approaching a steady standard, as would be the case under
a system of specific duties, they sink and rise with the sinking and rising prices of articles
in foreign countries. It would not be difficult for Congress to arrange a system of specific
duties which would afford additional stability both to our revenue and our manufactures and
without injury or injustice to any interest of the country. This might be accomplished by ascertaining
the average value of any given article for a series of years at the place of exportation and
by simply converting the rate of ad valorem duty upon it which might be deemed necessary for
revenue purposes into the form of a specific duty. Such an arrangement could not injure the
consumer. If he should pay a greater amount of duty one year, this would be counterbalanced
by a lesser amount the next, and in the end the aggregate would be the same.

I desire to call your immediate attention to the present condition of the Treasury, so ably
and clearly presented by the Secretary in his report to Congress, and to recommend that measures
be promptly adopted to enable it to discharge its pressing obligations. The other recommendations
of the report are well worthy of your favorable consideration.

I herewith transmit to Congress the reports of the Secretaries of War, of the Navy, of the
Interior, and of the Postmaster-General. The recommendations and suggestions which they contain
are highly valuable and deserve your careful attention.

The report of the Postmaster-General details the circumstances under which Cornelius Vanderbilt,
on my request, agreed in the month of July last to carry the ocean mails between our Atlantic
and Pacific coasts. Had he not thus acted this important intercommunication must have been
suspended, at least for a season. The Postmaster-General had no power to make him any other
compensation than the postages on the mail matter which he might carry. It was known at the
time that these postages would fall far short of an adequate compensation, as well as of the
sum which the same service had previously cost the Government. Mr. Vanderbilt, in a commendable
spirit, was willing to rely upon the justice of Congress to make up the deficiency, and I therefore
recommend that an appropriation may be granted for this purpose.

I should do great injustice to the Attorney-General were I to omit the mention of his distinguished
services in the measures adopted and prosecuted by him for the defense of the Government against
numerous and unfounded claims to land in California purporting to have been made by the Mexican
Government previous to the treaty of cession. The successful opposition to these claims has
saved the United States public property worth many millions of dollars and to individuals holding
title under them to at least an equal amount.

It has been represented to me from sources which I deem reliable that the inhabitants in several
portions of Kansas have been reduced nearly to a state of starvation on account of the almost
total failure of their crops, whilst the harvests in every other portion of the country have
been abundant. The prospect before them for the approaching winter is well calculated to enlist
the sympathies of every heart. The destitution appears to be so general that it can not be
relieved by private contributions, and they are in such indigent circumstances as to be unable
to purchase the necessaries of life for themselves. I refer the subject to Congress. If any
constitutional measure for their relief can be devised, I would recommend its adoption.

I cordially commend to your favorable regard the interests of the people of this District.
They are eminently entitled to your consideration, especially since, unlike the people of the
States, they can appeal to no government except that of the Union.

***

State of the Union Address Abraham Lincoln December 3, 1861

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

In the midst of unprecedented political troubles we have cause of great gratitude to God for
unusual good health and most abundant harvests.

You will not be surprised to learn that in the peculiar exigencies of the times our intercourse
with foreign nations has been attended with profound solicitude, chiefly turning upon our own
domestic affairs.

A disloyal portion of the American people have during the whole year been engaged in an attempt
to divide and destroy the Union. A nation which endures factious domestic division is exposed
to disrespect abroad, and one party, if not both, is sure sooner or later to invoke foreign
intervention.

Nations thus tempted to interfere are not always able to resist the counsels of seeming expediency
and ungenerous ambition, although measures adopted under such influences seldom fail to be
unfortunate and injurious to those adopting them.

The disloyal citizens of the United States who have offered the ruin of our country in return
for the aid and comfort which they have invoked abroad have received less patronage and encouragement
than they probably expected. If it were just to suppose, as the insurgents have seemed to assume,
that foreign nations in this case, discarding all moral, social, and treaty obligations, would
act solely and selfishly for the most speedy restoration of commerce, including especially
the acquisition of cotton, those nations appear as yet not to have seen their way to their
object more directly or clearly through the destruction than through the preservation of the
Union. If we could dare to believe that foreign nations are actuated by no higher principle
than this, I am quite sure a sound argument could be made to show them that they can reach
their aim more readily and easily by aiding to crush this rebellion than by giving encouragement
to it.

The principal lever relied on by the insurgents for exciting foreign nations to hostility against
us, as already intimated, is the embarrassment of commerce. Those nations, however, not improbably
saw from the first that it was the Union which made as well our foreign as our domestic commerce.
They can scarcely have failed to perceive that the effort for disunion produces the existing
difficulty, and that one strong nation promises more durable peace and a more extensive, valuable,
and reliable commerce than can the same nation broken into hostile fragments.

It is not my purpose to review our discussions with foreign states, because, whatever might
be their wishes or dispositions, the integrity of our country and the stability of our Government
mainly depend not upon them, but on the loyalty, virtue, patriotism, and intelligence of the
American people. The correspondence itself, with the usual reservations, is herewith submitted.

I venture to hope it will appear that we have practiced prudence and liberality toward foreign
powers, averting causes of irritation and with firmness maintaining our own rights and honor.

Since, however, it is apparent that here, as in every other state, foreign dangers necessarily
attend domestic difficulties, I recommend that adequate and ample measures be adopted for maintaining
the public defenses on every side. While under this general recommendation provision for defending
our seacoast line readily occurs to the mind, I also in the same connection ask the attention
of Congress to our great lakes and rivers. It is believed that some fortifications and depots
of arms and munitions, with harbor and navigation improvements, all at well-selected points
upon these, would be of great importance to the national defense and preservation. I ask attention
to the views of the Secretary of War, expressed in his report, upon the same general subject.
I deem it of importance that the loyal regions of east Tennessee and western North Carolina
should be connected with Kentucky and other faithful parts of the Union by railroad. I therefore
recommend, as a military measure, that Congress provide for the construction of such road as
speedily as possible. Kentucky no doubt will cooperate, and through her legislature make the
most judicious selection of a line. The northern terminus must connect with some existing railroad,
and whether the route shall be from Lexington or Nicholasville to the Cumberland Gap, or from
Lebanon to the Tennessee line, in the direction of Knoxville, or on some still different line,
can easily be determined. Kentucky and the General Government cooperating, the work can be
completed in a very short time, and when done it will be not only of vast present usefulness,
but also a valuable permanent improvement, worth its cost in all the future.

Some treaties, designed chiefly for the interests of commerce, and having no grave political
importance, have been negotiated, and will be submitted to the Senate for their consideration.

Although we have failed to induce some of the commercial powers to adopt a desirable melioration
of the rigor of maritime war, we have removed all obstructions from the way of this humane
reform except such as are merely of temporary and accidental occurrence.

I invite your attention to the correspondence between Her Britannic Majesty's minister accredited
to this Government and the Secretary of State relative to the detention of the British ship
Perthshire in June last by the United States steamer Massachusetts for a supposed breach of
the blockade. As this detention was occasioned by an obvious misapprehension of the facts,
and as justice requires that we should commit no belligerent act not rounded in strict right
as sanctioned by public law, I recommend that an appropriation be made to satisfy the reasonable
demand of the owners of the vessel for her detention.

I repeat the recommendation of my predecessor in his annual message to Congress in December
last in regard to the disposition of the surplus which will probably remain after satisfying
the claims of American citizens against China, pursuant to the awards of the commissioners
under the act of the 3d of March, 1859. If, however, it should not be deemed advisable to carry
that recommendation into effect, I would suggest that authority be given for investing the
principal, over the proceeds of the surplus referred to, in good securities, with a view to
the satisfaction of such other just claims of our citizens against China as are not unlikely
to arise hereafter in the course of our extensive trade with that Empire.

By the act of the 5th of August last Congress authorized the President to instruct the commanders
of suitable vessels to defend themselves against and to capture pirates. This authority has
been exercised in a single instance only. For the more effectual protection of our extensive
and valuable commerce in the Eastern seas especially, it seems to me that it would also be
advisable to authorize the commanders of sailing vessels to recapture any prizes which pirates
may make of United States vessels and their cargoes, and the consular courts now established
by law in Eastern countries to adjudicate the cases in the event that this should not be objected
to by the local authorities.

If any good reason exists why we should persevere longer in withholding our recognition of
the independence and sovereignty of Hayti and Liberia, I am unable to discern it. Unwilling,
however, to inaugurate a novel policy in regard to them without the approbation of Congress,
I submit for your consideration the expediency of an appropriation for maintaining a charge
d'affaires near each of those new States. It does not admit of doubt that important commercial
advantages might be secured by favorable treaties with them.

The operations of the Treasury during the period which has elapsed since your adjournment have
been conducted with signal success. The patriotism of the people has placed at the disposal
of the Government the large means demanded by the public exigencies. Much of the national loan
has been taken by citizens of the industrial classes, whose confidence in their country's faith
and zeal for their country's deliverance from present peril have induced them to contribute
to the support of the Government the whole of their limited acquisitions. This fact imposes
peculiar obligations to economy in disbursement and energy in action.

The revenue from all sources, including loans, for the financial year ending on the 30th of
June, 1861, was $86,835,900.27, and the expenditures for the same period, including payments
on account of the public debt, were $84,578,834.47, leaving a balance in the Treasury on the
1st of July of 52,257,065.80. For the first quarter of the financial year ending on the 30th
of September, 1861, the receipts from all sources, including the balance of the 1st of July,
were $102,532,509.27, and the expenses $98,239,733.09, leaving a balance on the 1st of October,
1861, of $4,292,776.18.

Estimates for the remaining three quarters of the year and for the financial year 1863, together
with his views of ways and means for meeting the demands contemplated by them, will be submitted
to Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury. It is gratifying to know that the expenditures
made necessary by the rebellion are not beyond the resources of the loyal people, and to believe
that the same patriotism which has thus far sustained the Government will continue to sustain
it till peace and union shall again bless the land.

I respectfully refer to the report of the Secretary of War for information respecting the numerical
strength of the Army and for recommendations having in view an increase of its efficiency and
the well-being of the various branches of the service intrusted to his care. It is gratifying
to know that the patriotism of the people has proved equal to the occasion, and that the number
of troops tendered greatly exceeds the force which Congress authorized me to call into the field.

I refer with pleasure to those portions of his report which make allusion to the creditable
degree of discipline already attained by our troops and to the excellent sanitary condition
of the entire Army.

The recommendation of the Secretary for an organization of the militia upon a uniform basis
is a subject of vital importance to the future safety of the country, and is commended to the
serious attention of Congress.

The large addition to the Regular Army, in connection with the defection that has so considerably
diminished the number of its officers, gives peculiar importance to his recommendation for
increasing the corps of cadets to the greatest capacity of the Military Academy.

By mere omission, I presume, Congress has failed to provide chaplains for hospitals occupied
by volunteers. This subject was brought to my notice, and I was induced to draw up the form
of a letter, one copy of which, properly addressed, has been delivered to each of the persons,
and at the dates respectively named and stated in a schedule, containing also the form of the
letter marked A, and herewith transmitted.

These gentlemen, I understand, entered upon the duties designated at the times respectively
stated in the schedule, and have labored faithfully therein ever since. I therefore recommend
that they be compensated at the same rate as chaplains in the Army. I further suggest that
general provision be made for chaplains to serve at hospitals, as well as with regiments.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy presents in detail the operations of that branch of
the service, the activity and energy which have characterized its administration, and the results
of measures to increase its efficiency and power. Such have been the additions, by construction
and purchase, that it may almost be said a navy has been created and brought into service since
our difficulties commenced.

Besides blockading our extensive coast, squadrons larger than ever before assembled under our
flag have been put afloat and performed deeds which have increased our naval renown.

I would invite special attention to the recommendation of the Secretary for a more perfect
organization of the Navy by introducing additional grades in the service.

The present organization is defective and unsatisfactory, and the suggestions submitted by
the Department will, it is believed, if adopted, obviate the difficulties alluded to, promote
harmony, and increase the efficiency of the Navy.

There are three vacancies on the bench of the Supreme Court--two by the decease of Justices
Daniel and McLean and one by the resignation of Justice Campbell. I have so far forborne making
nominations to fill these vacancies for reasons which I will now state. Two of the outgoing
judges resided within the States now overrun by revolt, so that if successors were appointed
in the same localities they could not now serve upon their circuits; and many of the most competent
men there probably would not take the personal hazard of accepting to serve, even here, upon
the Supreme bench. I have been unwilling to throw all the appointments northward, thus disabling
myself from doing justice to the South on the return of peace; although I may remark that to
transfer to the North one which has heretofore been in the South would not, with reference
to territory and population, be unjust.

During the long and brilliant judicial career of Judge McLean his circuit grew into an empire
altogether too large for any one judge to give the courts therein more than a nominal attendance--rising
in population from 1,470,018 in 1830 to 6,151,405 in 1860.

Besides this, the country generally has outgrown our present judicial system. If uniformity
was at all intended, the system requires that all the States shall be accommodated with circuit
courts, attended by Supreme judges, while, in fact, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Florida,
Texas, California, and Oregon have never had any such courts. Nor can this well be remedied
without a change in the system, because the adding of judges to the Supreme Court, enough for
the accommodation of all parts of the country with circuit courts, would create a court altogether
too numerous for a judicial body of any sort. And the evil, if it be one, will increase as
new States come into the Union. Circuit courts are useful or they are not useful. If useful,
no State should be denied them; if not useful, no State should have them. Let them be provided
for all or abolished as to all.

Three modifications occur to me, either of which, I think, would be an improvement upon our
present system. Let the Supreme Court be of convenient number in every event; then, first,
let the whole country be divided into circuits of convenient size, the Supreme judges to serve
in a number of them corresponding to their own number, and independent circuit judges be provided
for all the rest; or, secondly, let the Supreme judges be relieved from circuit duties and
circuit judges provided for all the circuits; or, thirdly, dispense with circuit courts altogether,
leaving the judicial functions wholly to the district courts and an independent Supreme Court.

I respectfully recommend to the consideration of Congress the present condition of the statute
laws, with the hope that Congress will be able to find an easy remedy for many of the inconveniences
and evils which constantly embarrass those engaged in the practical administration of them.
Since the organization of the Government Congress has enacted some 5,000 acts and joint resolutions,
which fill more than 6,000 closely printed pages and are scattered through many volumes. Many
of these acts have been drawn in haste and without sufficient caution, so that their provisions
are often obscure in themselves or in conflict with each other, or at least so doubtful as
to render it very difficult for even the best-informed persons to ascertain precisely what
the statute law really is.

It seems to me very important that the statute laws should be made as plain and intelligible
as possible, and be reduced to as small a compass as may consist with the fullness and precision
of the will of the Legislature and the perspicuity of its language. This well done would, I
think, greatly facilitate the labors of those whose duty it is to assist in the administration
of the laws, and would be a lasting benefit to the people, by placing before them in a more
accessible and intelligible form the laws which so deeply concern their interests and their duties.

I am informed by some whose opinions I respect that all the acts of Congress now in force and
of a permanent and general nature might be revised and rewritten so as to be embraced in one
volume (or at most two volumes) of ordinary and convenient size; and I respectfully recommend
to Congress to consider of the subject, and if my suggestion be approved to devise such plan
as to their wisdom shall seem most proper for the attainment of the end proposed.

One of the unavoidable consequences of the present insurrection is the entire suppression in
many places of all the ordinary means of administering civil justice by the officers and in
the forms of existing law. This is the case, in whole or in part, in all the insurgent States;
and as our armies advance upon and take possession of parts of those States the practical evil
becomes more apparent. There are no courts nor officers to whom the citizens of other States
may apply for the enforcement of their lawful claims against citizens of the insurgent States,
and there is a vast amount of debt constituting such claims. Some have estimated it as high
as $200,000,000, due in large part from insurgents in open rebellion to loyal citizens who
are even now making great sacrifices in the discharge of their patriotic duty to support the
Government.

Under these circumstances I have been urgently solicited to establish by military power courts
to administer summary justice in such cases I have thus far declined to do it, not because
I had any doubt that the end proposed--the collection of the debts--was just and right in itself,
but because I have been unwilling to go beyond the pressure of necessity in the unusual exercise
of power. But the powers of Congress, I suppose, are equal to the anomalous occasion, and therefore
I refer the whole matter to Congress, with the hope that a plan may be devised for the administration
of justice in all such parts of the insurgent States and Territories as may be under the control
of this Government, whether by a voluntary return to allegiance and order or by the power of
our arms; this, however, not to be a permanent institution, but a temporary substitute, and
to cease as soon as the ordinary courts can be reestablished in peace.

It is important that some more convenient means should be provided, if possible, for the adjustment
of claims against the Government, especially in view of their increased number by reason of
the war. It is as much the duty of Government to render prompt justice against itself in favor
of citizens as it is to administer the same between private individuals. The investigation
and adjudication of claims in their nature belong to the judicial department. Besides, it is
apparent that the attention of Congress will be more than usually engaged for some time to
come with great national questions. It was intended by the organization of the Court of Claims
mainly to remove this branch of business from the halls of Congress: but while the court has
proved to be an effective and valuable means of investigation, it in great degree fails to
effect the object of its creation for want of power to make its judgments final.

Fully aware of the delicacy, not to say the danger, of the subject, I commend to your careful
consideration whether this power of making judgments final may not properly be given to the
court, reserving the right of appeal on questions of law to the Supreme Court, with such other
provisions as experience may have shown to be necessary.

I ask attention to the report of the Postmaster-General, the following being a summary statement
of the condition of the Department:

The revenue from all sources during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1861, including the annual
permanent appropriation of $700,000 for the transportation of "free mail matter," was $9,049,296.40,
being about 2 per cent less than the revenue for 1860.

The expenditures were $13,606,759.11, showing a decrease of more than 8 per cent as compared
with those of the previous year and leaving an excess of expenditure over the revenue for the
last fiscal year of $4,557,462.71.

The gross revenue for the year ending June 30, 1863, is estimated at an increase of 4 per cent
on that of 1861, making $8,683,000, to which should be added the earnings of the Department
in carrying free matter, viz, $700,000, making $9,383,000.

The total expenditures for 1863 are estimated at $12,528,000, leaving an estimated deficiency
of $3,145,000 to be supplied from the Treasury in addition to the permanent appropriation.

The present insurrection shows, I think, that the extension of this District across the Potomac
River at the time of establishing the capital here was eminently wise, and consequently that
the relinquishment of that portion of it which lies within the State of Virginia was unwise
and dangerous. I submit for your consideration the expediency of regaining that part of the
District and the restoration of the original boundaries thereof through negotiations with the
State of Virginia.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior, with the accompanying documents, exhibits the
condition of the several branches of the public business pertaining to that Department. The
depressing influences of the insurrection have been specially felt in the operations of the
Patent and General Land Offices. The cash receipts from the sales of public lands during the
past year have exceeded the expenses of our land system only about $200,000. The sales have
been entirely suspended in the Southern States, while the interruptions to the business of
the country and the diversion of large numbers of men from labor to military service have obstructed
settlements in the new States and Territories of the Northwest.

The receipts of the Patent Office have declined in nine months about $100,000, rendering a
large reduction of the force employed necessary to make it self-sustaining.

The demands upon the Pension Office will be largely increased by the insurrection. Numerous
applications for pensions, based upon the casualties of the existing war, have already been
made. There is reason to believe that many who are now upon the pension rolls and in receipt
of the bounty of the Government are in the ranks of the insurgent army or giving them aid and
comfort. The Secretary of the Interior has directed a suspension of the payment of the pensions
of such persons upon proof of their disloyalty. I recommend that Congress authorize that officer
to cause the names of such persons to be stricken from the pension rolls.

The relations of the Government with the Indian tribes have been greatly disturbed by the insurrection,
especially in the southern superintendency and in that of New Mexico. The Indian country south
of Kansas is in the possession of insurgents from Texas and Arkansas. The agents of the United
States appointed since the 4th of March for this superintendency have been unable to reach
their posts, while the most of those who were in office before that time have espoused the
insurrectionary cause, and assume to exercise the powers of agents by virtue of commissions
from the insurrectionists. It has been stated in the public press that a portion of those Indians
have been organized as a military force and are attached to the army of the insurgents. Although
the Government has no official information upon this subject, letters have been written to
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs by several prominent chiefs giving assurance of their loyalty
to the United States and expressing a wish for the presence of Federal troops to protect them.
It is believed that upon the repossession of the country by the Federal forces the Indians
will readily cease all hostile demonstrations and resume their former relations to the Government.

Agriculture, confessedly the largest interest of the nation, has not a department nor a bureau,
but a clerkship only, assigned to it in the Government. While it is fortunate that this great
interest is so independent in its nature as to not have demanded and extorted more from the
Government, I respectfully ask Congress to consider whether something more can not be given
voluntarily with general advantage.

Annual reports exhibiting the condition of our agriculture, commerce, and manufactures would
present a fund of information of great practical value to the country. While I make no suggestion
as to details, I venture the opinion that an agricultural and statistical bureau might profitably
be organized.

The execution of the laws for the suppression of the African slave trade has been confided
to the Department of the Interior. It is a subject of gratulation that the efforts which have
been made for the suppression of this inhuman traffic have been recently attended with unusual
success. Five vessels being fitted out for the slave trade have been seized and condemned.
Two mates of vessels engaged in the trade and one person in equipping a vessel as a slaver
have been convicted and subjected to the penalty of fine and imprisonment, and one captain,
taken with a cargo of Africans on board his vessel, has been convicted of the highest grade
of offense under our laws, the punishment of which is death.

The Territories of Colorado, Dakota, and Nevada, created by the last Congress, have been organized,
and civil administration has been inaugurated therein under auspices especially gratifying
when it is considered that the leaven of treason was found existing in some of these new countries
when the Federal officers arrived there.

The abundant natural resources of these Territories, with the security and protection afforded
by organized government, will doubtless invite to them a large immigration when peace shall
restore the business of the country to its accustomed channels. I submit the resolutions of
the legislature of Colorado, which evidence the patriotic spirit of the people of the Territory.
So far the authority of the United States has been upheld in all the Territories, as it is
hoped it will be in the future. I commend their interests and defense to the enlightened and
generous care of Congress.

I recommend to the favorable consideration of Congress the interests of the District of Columbia.
The insurrection has been the cause of much suffering and sacrifice to its inhabitants, and
as they have no representative in Congress that body should not overlook their just claims
upon the Government.

At your late session a joint resolution was adopted authorizing the President to take measures
for facilitating a proper representation of the industrial interests of the United States at
the exhibition of the industry of all nations to be holden at London in the year 1862. I regret
to say I have been unable to give personal attention to this subject--a subject at once so
interesting in itself and so extensively and intimately connected with the material prosperity
of the world. Through the Secretaries of State and of the Interior a plan or system has been
devised and partly matured, and which will be laid before you.

Under and by virtue of the act of Congress entitled "An act to confiscate property used for
insurrectionary purposes," approved August 6, 1861, the legal claims of certain persons to
the labor and service of certain other persons have become forfeited, and numbers of the latter
thus liberated are already dependent on the United States and must be provided for in some
way. Besides this, it is not impossible that some of the States will pass similar enactments
for their own benefit respectively, and by operation of which persons of the same class will
be thrown upon them for disposal. In such case I recommend that Congress provide for accepting
such persons from such States, according to some mode of valuation, in lieu, pro tanto, of
direct taxes, or upon some other plan to be agreed on with such States respectively; that such
persons, on such acceptance by the General Government, be at once deemed free, and that in
any event steps be taken for colonizing both classes (or the one first mentioned if the other
shall not be brought into existence) at some place or places in a climate congenial to them.
It might be well to consider, too, whether the free colored people already in the United States
could not, so far as individuals may desire, be included in such colonization.

To carry out the plan of colonization may involve the acquiring of territory, and also the
appropriation of money beyond that to be expended in the territorial acquisition. Having practiced
the acquisition of territory for nearly sixty years, the question of constitutional power to
do so is no longer an open one with us. The power was questioned at first by Mr. Jefferson,
who, however, in the purchase of Louisiana, yielded his scruples on the plea of great expediency.
If it be said that the only legitimate object of acquiring territory is to furnish homes for
white men, this measure effects that object, for the emigration of colored men leaves additional
room for white men remaining or coming here. Mr. Jefferson, however, placed the importance
of procuring Louisiana more on political and commercial grounds than on providing room for
population.

On this whole proposition, including the appropriation of money with the acquisition of territory,
does not the expediency amount to absolute necessity--that without which the Government itself
can not be perpetuated?

The war continues. In considering the policy to be adopted for suppressing the insurrection
I have been anxious and careful that the inevitable conflict for this purpose shall not degenerate
into a violent and remorseless revolutionary struggle. I have therefore in every case thought
it proper to keep the integrity of the Union prominent as the primary object of the contest
on our pan, leaving all questions which are not of vital military importance to the more deliberate
action of the Legislature.

In the exercise of my best discretion I have adhered to the blockade of the ports held by the
insurgents, instead of putting in force by proclamation the law of Congress enacted .at the
late session for closing those ports.

So also, obeying the dictates of prudence, as well as the obligations of law, instead of transcending
I have adhered to the act of Congress to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes.
If a new law upon the same subject shall be proposed, its propriety will be duly considered.
The Union must be preserved, and hence all indispensable means must be employed. We should
not be in haste to determine that radical and extreme measures, which may reach the loyal as
well as the disloyal, are indispensable.

The inaugural address at the beginning of the Administration and the message to Congress at
the late special session were both mainly devoted to the domestic controversy out of which
the insurrection and consequent war have sprung. Nothing now occurs to add or subtract to or
from the principles or general purposes stated and expressed in those documents.

The last ray of hope for preserving the Union peaceably expired at the assault upon Fort Sumter,
and a general review of what has occurred since may not be unprofitable. What was painfully
uncertain then is much better defined and more distinct now, and the progress of events is
plainly in the right direction. The insurgents confidently claimed a strong support from north
of Mason and Dixon's line, and the friends of the Union were not free from apprehension on
the point. This, however, was soon settled definitely, and on the right side. South of the
line noble little Delaware led off right from the first. Maryland was made to seem against
the Union. Our soldiers were assaulted, bridges were burned, and railroads torn up within her
limits, and we were many days at one time without the ability to bring a single regiment over
her soil to the capital. Now her bridges and railroads are repaired and open to the Government;
she already gives seven regiments to the cause of the Union, and none to the enemy; and her
people, at a regular election, have sustained the Union by a larger majority and a larger aggregate
vote than they ever before gave to any candidate or any question. Kentucky, too, for some time
in doubt, is now decidedly and, I think, unchangeably ranged on the side of the Union. Missouri
is comparatively quiet, and, I believe, can not again be overrun by the insurrectionists. These
three States of Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri, neither of which would promise a single soldier
at first, have now an aggregate of not less than 40,000 in the field for the Union, while of
their citizens certainly not more than a third of that number, and they of doubtful whereabouts
and doubtful existence, are in arms against us. After a somewhat bloody struggle of months,
winter closes on the Union people of western Virginia, leaving them masters of their own country.

An insurgent force of about 1,500, for months dominating the narrow peninsular region constituting
the counties of Accomac and Northampton, and known as Eastern Shore of Virginia, together with
some contiguous parts of Maryland, have laid down their arms, and the people there have renewed
their allegiance to and accepted the protection of the old flag. This leaves no armed insurrectionist
north of the Potomac or east of the Chesapeake.

Also we have obtained a footing at each of the isolated points on the southern coast of Hatteras,
Port Royal, Tybee Island (near Savannah), and Ship Island; and we likewise have some general
accounts of popular movements in behalf of the Union in North Carolina and Tennessee.

These things demonstrate that the cause of the Union is advancing steadily and certainly southward.

Since your last adjournment Lieutenant-General Scott has retired from the head of the Army.
During his long life the nation has not been unmindful of his merit; yet on calling to mind
how faithfully, ably, and brilliantly he has served the country, from a time far back in our
history, when few of the now living had been born, and thenceforward continually, I can not
but think we are still his debtors. I submit, therefore, for your consideration what further
mark of recognition is due to him, and to ourselves as a grateful people.

With the retirement of General Scott came the Executive duty of appointing in his stead a General
in Chief of the Army. It is a fortunate circumstance that neither in council nor country was
there, so far as I know, any difference of opinion as to the proper person to be selected.
The retiring chief repeatedly expressed his judgment in favor of General McClellan for the
position, and in this the nation seemed to give a unanimous concurrence. The designation of
General McClellan is therefore in considerable degree the selection of the country as well
as of the Executive, and hence there is better reason to hope there will be given him the confidence
and cordial support thus by fair implication promised, and without which he can not with so
full efficiency serve the country.

It has been said that one bad general is better than two good ones, and the saying is true
if taken to mean no more than that an army is better directed by a single mind, though inferior,
than by two superior ones at variance and cross-purposes with each other.

And the same is true in all joint operations wherein those engaged can have none but a common
end in view and can differ only as to the choice of means. In a storm at sea no one on board
can wish the ship to sink, and yet not unfrequently all go down together because too many will
direct and no single mind can be allowed to control.

It continues to develop that the insurrection is largely, if not exclusively, a war upon the
first principle of popular government--the rights of the people. Conclusive evidence of this
is found in the most grave and maturely considered public documents, as well as in the general
tone of the insurgents. In those documents we find the abridgment of the existing right of
suffrage and the denial to the people of all right to participate in the selection of public
officers except the legislative boldly advocated, with labored arguments to prove that large
control of the people in government is the source of all political evil. Monarchy itself is
sometimes hinted at as a possible refuge from the power of the people.

In my present position I could scarcely be justified were I to omit raising a warning voice
against this approach of returning despotism.

It is not needed nor fitting here that a general argument should be made in favor of popular
institutions, but there is one point, with its connections, not so hackneyed as most others,
to which I ask a brief attention. It is the effort to place capital on an equal footing with,
if not above, labor in the structure of government. It is assumed that labor is available only
in connection with capital; that nobody labors unless somebody else, owning capital, somehow
by the use of it induces him to labor. This assumed, it is next considered whether it is best
that capital shall hire laborers, and thus induce them to work by their own consent, or buy
them and drive them to it without their consent. Having proceeded so far, it is naturally concluded
that all laborers are either hired laborers or what we call slaves. And further, it is assumed
that whoever is once a hired laborer is fixed in that condition for life.

Now there is no such relation between capital and labor as assumed, nor is there any such thing
as a free man being fixed for life in the condition of a hired laborer. Both these assumptions
are false, and all inferences from them are groundless.

Labor is prior to and independent of capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could
never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves
much the higher consideration. Capital has its rights, which are as worthy of protection as
any other rights. Nor is it denied that there is, and probably always will be, a relation between
labor and capital producing mutual benefits. The error is in assuming that the whole labor
of community exists within that relation. A few men own capital, and that few avoid labor themselves,
and with their capital hire or buy another few to labor for them. A large majority belong to
neither class--neither work for others nor have others working for them. In most of the Southern
States a majority of the whole people of all colors are neither slaves nor masters, while in
the Northern a large majority are neither hirers nor hired. Men, with their families--wives,
sons, and daughters--work for themselves on their farms, in their houses, and in their shops,
taking the whole product to themselves, and asking no favors of capital on the one hand nor
of hired laborers or slaves on the other. It is not forgotten that a considerable number of
persons mingle their own labor with capital; that is, they labor with their own hands and also
buy or hire others to labor for them; but this is only a mixed and not a distinct class. No
principle stated is disturbed by the existence of this mixed class.

Again, as has already been said, there is not of necessity any such thing as the free hired
laborer being fixed to that condition for life. Many independent men everywhere in these States
a few years back in their lives were hired laborers. The prudent, penniless beginner in the
world labors for wages awhile, saves a surplus with which to buy tools or land for himself,
then labors on his own account another while, and at length hires another new beginner to help
him. This is the just and generous and prosperous system which opens the way to all, gives
hope to all, and consequent energy and progress and improvement of condition to all. No men
living are more worthy to be trusted than those who toil up from poverty; none less inclined
to take or touch aught which they have not honestly earned. Let them beware of surrendering
a political power which they already possess, and which if surrendered will surely be used
to close the door of advancement against such as they and to fix new disabilities and burdens
upon them till all of liberty shall be lost.

From the first taking of our national census to the last are seventy years, and we find our
population at the end of the period eight times as great as it was at the beginning. The increase
of those other things which men deem desirable has been even greater. We thus have at one view
what the popular principle, applied to Government through the machinery, of the States and
the Union, has produced in a given time, and also what if firmly maintained it promises for
the future. There are already among us those who if the Union be preserved will live to see
it contain 250,000,000. The struggle of to-day is not altogether for to-day; it is for a vast
future also. With a reliance on Providence all the more firm and earnest, let us proceed in
the great task which events have devolved upon us.

***

State of the Union Address Abraham Lincoln December 1, 1862

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Since your last annual assembling another year of health and bountiful harvests has passed,
and while it has not pleased the Almighty to bless us with a return of peace, we can but press
on, guided by the best light He gives us, trusting that in His own good time and wise way all
will yet be well.

The correspondence touching foreign affairs which has taken place during the last year is herewith
submitted, in virtual compliance with a request to that effect made by the House of Representatives
near the close of the last session of Congress. If the condition of our relations with other
nations is less gratifying than it has usually been at former periods, it is certainly more
satisfactory than a nation so unhappily distracted as we are might reasonably have apprehended.
In the month of June last there were some grounds to expect that the maritime powers which
at the beginning of our domestic difficulties so unwisely and unnecessarily, as we think, recognized
the insurgents as a belligerent would soon recede from that position, which has proved only
less injurious to themselves than to our own country. But the temporary reverses which afterwards
befell the national arms, and which were exaggerated by our own disloyal citizens abroad, have
hitherto delayed that act of simple justice.

The civil war, which has so radically changed for the moment the occupations and habits of
the American people, has necessarily disturbed the social condition and affected very deeply
the prosperity of the nations with which we have carried on a commerce that has been steadily
increasing throughout a period of half a century. It has at the same time excited political
ambitions and apprehensions which have produced a profound agitation throughout the civilized
world. In this unusual agitation we have forborne from taking part in any controversy between
foreign states and between parties or factions in such states. We have attempted no propagandism
and acknowledged no revolution. But we have left to every nation the exclusive conduct and
management of its own affairs. Our struggle has been, of course, contemplated by foreign nations
with reference less to its own merits than to its supposed and often exaggerated effects and
consequences resulting to those nations themselves. Nevertheless, complaint on the part of
this Government, even if it were just, would certainly be unwise. The treaty with Great Britain
for the suppression of the slave trade has been put into operation with a good prospect of
complete success. It is an occasion of special pleasure to acknowledge that the execution of
it on the part of Her Majesty's Government has been marked with a jealous respect for the authority
of the United States and the rights of their moral and loyal citizens.

The convention with Hanover for the abolition of the Stade dues has been carried into full
effect under the act of Congress for that purpose. A blockade of 3,000 miles of seacoast could
not be established and vigorously enforced in a season of great commercial activity like the
present without committing occasional mistakes and inflicting unintentional injuries upon foreign
nations and their subjects. A civil war occurring in a country, where foreigners reside and
carry on trade under treaty stipulations is necessarily fruitful of complaints of the violation
of neutral rights. All such collisions tend to excite misapprehensions, and possibly to produce
mutual reclamations between nations which have a common interest in preserving peace and friendship.
In clear cases of these kinds I have so far as possible heard and redressed complaints which
have been presented by friendly powers. There is still, however, a large and an augmenting
number of doubtful cases upon which the Government is unable to agree with the governments
whose protection is demanded by the claimants. There are, moreover, many cases in which the
United States or their citizens suffer wrongs from the naval or military authorities of foreign
nations which the governments of those states are not at once prepared to redress. I have proposed
to some of the foreign states thus interested mutual conventions to examine and adjust such
complaints. This proposition has been made especially to Great Britain, to France, to Spain,
and to Prussia. In each case it has been kindly received, but has not yet been formally adopted.

I deem it my duty to recommend an appropriation in behalf of the owners of the Norwegian bark
Admiral P. Tordenskiold, which vessel was in May, 1861, prevented by the commander of the blockading
force off Charleston from leaving that port with cargo, notwithstanding a similar privilege
had shortly before been granted to an English vessel. I have directed the Secretary of State
to cause the papers in the case to be communicated to the proper committees.

Applications have been made to me by many free Americans of African descent to favor their
emigration, with a view to such colonization as was contemplated in recent acts of Congress.
Other parties, at home and abroad--some from interested motives, others upon patriotic considerations,
and still others influenced by philanthropic sentiments--have suggested similar measures, while,
on the other hand, several of the Spanish American Republics have protested against the sending
of such colonies to their respective territories. Under these circumstances I have declined
to move any such colony to any state without first obtaining the consent of its government,
with an agreement on its part to receive and protect such emigrants in all the rights of freemen;
and I have at the same time offered to the several States situated within the Tropics, or having
colonies there, to negotiate with them, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to
favor the voluntary emigration of persons of that class to their respective territories, upon
conditions which shall be equal, just, and humane. Liberia and Hayti are as yet the only countries
to which colonists of African descent from here could go with certainty of being received and
adopted as citizens; and I regret to say such persons contemplating colonization do not seem
so willing to migrate to those countries as to some others, nor so willing as I think their
interest demands. I believe, however, opinion among them in this respect is improving, and
that ere long there will be an augmented and considerable migration to both these countries
from the United States.

The new commercial treaty between the United States and the Sultan of Turkey has been carried
into execution.

A commercial and consular treaty has been negotiated, subject to the Senate's consent, with
Liberia, and a similar negotiation is now pending with the Republic of Hayti. A considerable
improvement of the national commerce is expected to result from these measures. Our relations
with Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Russia, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden, Austria, the
Netherlands, Italy, Rome, and the other European States remain undisturbed. Very favorable
relations also continue to be maintained with Turkey, Morocco, China, and Japan.

During the last year there has not only been no change of our previous relations with the independent
States of our own continent, but more friendly sentiments than have heretofore existed are
believed to be entertained by these neighbors, whose safety and progress are so intimately
connected with our own. This statement especially applies to Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica,
Honduras, Peru, and Chile. The commission under the convention with the Republic of New Granada
closed its session without having audited and passed upon all the claims which were submitted
to it. A proposition is pending to revive the convention, that it may be able to do more complete
justice. The joint commission between the United States and the Republic of Costa Rica has
completed its labors and submitted its report. I have favored the project for connecting the
United States with Europe by an Atlantic telegraph, and a similar project to extend the telegraph
from San Francisco to connect by a Pacific telegraph with the line which is being extended
across the Russian Empire. The Territories of the United States, with unimportant exceptions
have remained undisturbed by the civil war; and they are exhibiting such evidence of prosperity
as justifies an expectation that some of them will soon be in a condition to be organized as
States and be constitutionally admitted into the Federal Union.

The immense mineral resources of some of those Territories ought to be developed as rapidly
as possible. Every step in that direction would have a tendency to improve the revenues of
the Government and diminish the burdens of the people. It is worthy of your serious consideration
whether some extraordinary measures to promote that end can not be adopted. The means which
suggests itself as most likely to be effective is a scientific exploration of the mineral regions
in those Territories with a view to the publication of its results at home and in foreign countries--results
which can not fail to be auspicious.

The condition of the finances will claim your most diligent consideration. The vast expenditures
incident to the military and naval operations required for the suppression of the rebellion
have hitherto been met with a promptitude and certainty unusual in similar circumstances, and
the public credit has been fully maintained. The continuance of the war, however, and the increased
disbursements made necessary by the augmented forces now in the field demand your best reflections
as to the best modes of providing the necessary revenue without injury to business and with
the least possible burdens upon labor.

The suspension of specie payments by the banks soon after the commencement of your last session
made large issues of United States notes unavoidable. In no other way could the payment of
the troops and the satisfaction of other just demands be so economically or so well provided
for. The judicious legislation of Congress, securing the receivability of these notes for loans
and internal duties and making them a legal tender for other debts, has made them an universal
currency, and has satisfied, partially at least, and for the time, the long-felt want of an
uniform circulating medium, saving thereby to the people immense sums in discounts and exchanges.

A return to specie payments, however, at the earliest period compatible with due regard to
all interests concerned should ever be kept in view. Fluctuations in the value of currency
are always injurious, and to reduce these fluctuations to the lowest possible point will always
be a leading purpose in wise legislation. Convertibility, prompt and certain convertibility,
into coin is generally acknowledged to be the best and surest safeguard against them; and it
is extremely doubtful whether a circulation of United States notes payable in coin and sufficiently
large for the wants of the people can be permanently, usefully, and safely maintained.

Is there, then, any other mode in which the necessary provision for the public wants can be
made and the great advantages of a safe and uniform currency secured?

I know of none which promises so certain results and is at the same time so unobjectionable
as the organization of banking associations, under a general act of Congress, well guarded
in its provisions. To such associations the Government might furnish circulating notes, on
the security of United States bonds deposited in the Treasury. These notes, prepared under
the supervision of proper officers, being uniform in appearance and security and convertible
always into coin, would at once protect labor against the evils of a vicious currency and facilitate
commerce by cheap and safe exchanges.

A moderate reservation from the interest on the bonds would compensate the United States for
the preparation and distribution of the notes and a general supervision of the system, and
would lighten the burden of that part of the public debt employed as securities. The public
credit, moreover, would be greatly improved and the negotiation of new loans greatly facilitated
by the steady market demand for Government bonds which the adoption of the proposed system
would create. It is an additional recommendation of the measure, of considerable weight, in
my judgment, that it would reconcile as far as possible all existing interests by the opportunity
offered to existing institutions to reorganize under the act, substituting only the secured
uniform national circulation for the local and various circulation, secured and unsecured,
now issued by them.

The receipts into the treasury from all sources, including loans and balance from the preceding
year, for the fiscal year ending on the 30th June, 1862, were $583,885,247.06, of which sum
$49,056,397.62 were derived from customs; $1,795,331.73 from the direct tax; from public lands,
$152,203.77; from miscellaneous sources, $931,787.64; from loans in all forms, $529,692,460.50.
The remainder, :$2,257,065.80, was the balance from last year.

The disbursements during the same period were: For Congressional, executive, and judicial purposes,
$5,939.009.29; for foreign intercourse, $1,339,710.35; for miscellaneous expenses, including
the mints, loans, Post-Office deficiencies, collection of revenue, and other like charges,
$14,129,771.50; for expenses under the Interior Department, 985.52; under the War Department,
$394,368,407.36; under the Navy Department, $42,674,569.69; for interest on public debt, $13,190,324.45;
and for payment of public debt, including reimbursement of temporary loan and redemptions,
$96,096,922.09; making an aggregate of $570,841,700.25, and leaving a balance in the Treasury
on the 1st day of July, 1862, of $13,043,546.81.

It should be observed that the sum of $96,096,922.09, expended for reimbursements and redemption
of public debt, being included also in the loans made, may be properly deducted both from receipts
and expenditures, leaving the actual receipts for the year $487,788,324.97, and the expenditures
$474,744,778.16.

Other information on the subject of the finances will be found in the report of the Secretary
of the Treasury, to whose statements and views I invite your most candid and considerate attention.

The reports of the Secretaries of War and of the Navy are herewith transmitted. These reports,
though lengthy, are scarcely more than brief abstracts of the very numerous and extensive transactions
and operations conducted through those Departments. Nor could I give a summary of them here
upon any principle which would admit of its being much shorter than the reports themselves.
I therefore content myself with laying the reports before you and asking your attention to them.

It gives me pleasure to report a decided improvement in the financial condition of the Post-Office
Department as compared with several preceding years. The receipts for the fiscal year 1861
amounted to $8,349,296.40, which embraced the revenue from all the States of the Union for
three quarters of that year. Notwithstanding the cessation of revenue from the so-called seceded
States during the last fiscal year, the increase of the correspondence of the loyal States
has been sufficient to produce a revenue during the same year of $8,299,820.90, being only
$50,000 less than was derived from all the States of the Union during the previous year. The
expenditures show a still more favorable result. The amount expended in 1861 was $13,606,759.11.
For the last year the amount has been reduced to $11,125,364.13, showing a decrease of about
$2,481,000 in the expenditures as compared with the preceding year, and about $3,750,000 as
compared with the fiscal year 1860. The deficiency in the Department for the previous year
was $4,551,966.98. For the last fiscal year it was reduced to $2,112,814.57. These favorable
results are in part owing to the cessation of mail service in the insurrectionary States and
in part to a careful review of all expenditures in that Department in the interest of economy.
The efficiency of the postal service, it is believed, has also been much improved. The Postmaster-General
has also opened a correspondence through the Department of State with foreign governments proposing
a convention of postal representatives for the purpose of simplifying the rates of foreign
postage and to expedite the foreign mails. This proposition, equally important to our adopted
citizens and to the commercial interests of this country, has been favorably entertained and
agreed to by all the governments from whom replies have been received.

I ask the attention of Congress to the suggestions of the Postmaster-General in his report
respecting the further legislation required, in his opinion, for the benefit of the postal service.

The Secretary of the Interior reports as follows in regard to the public lands: The public
lands have ceased to be a source of revenue. From the 1st July, 1861, to the 30th September,
1862, the entire cash receipts from the sale of lands were $137,476.26--a sum much less than
the expenses of our land system during the same period. The homestead law, which will take
effect on the 1st of January next, offers such inducements to settlers that sales for cash
can not be expected to an extent sufficient to meet the expenses of the General Land Office
and the cost of surveying and bringing the land into market.

The discrepancy between the sum here stated as arising from the sales of the public lands and
the sum derived from the same source as reported from the Treasury Department arises, as I
understand, from the fact that the periods of time, though apparently, were not really coincident
at the beginning point, the Treasury report including a considerable sum now which had previously
been reported from the Interior, sufficiently large to greatly overreach the sum derived from
the three months now reported upon by the Interior and not by the Treasury. The Indian tribes
upon our frontiers have during the past year manifested a spirit of insubordination, and at
several points have engaged in open hostilities against the white settlements in their vicinity.
The tribes occupying the Indian country south of Kansas renounced their allegiance to the United
States and entered into treaties with the insurgents. Those who remained loyal to the United
States were driven from the country. The chief of the Cherokees has visited this city for the
purpose of restoring the former relations of the tribe with the United States. He alleges that
they were constrained by superior force to enter into treaties with the insurgents, and that
the United States neglected to furnish the protection which their treaty stipulations required.

In the month of August last the Sioux Indians in Minnesota attacked the settlements in their
vicinity with extreme ferocity, killing indiscriminately men, women, and children. This attack
was wholly unexpected, and therefore no means of defense had been prodded. It is estimated
that not less than 800 persons were killed by the Indians, and a large amount of property was
destroyed. How this outbreak was induced is not definitely known, and suspicions, which may
be unjust, need not to be stated. Information was received by the Indian Bureau from different
sources about the time hostilities were commenced that a simultaneous attack was to be made
upon the white settlements by all the tribes between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains.
The State of Minnesota has suffered great injury from this Indian war. A large portion of her
territory has been depopulated, and a severe loss has been sustained by the destruction of
property. The people of that State manifest much anxiety for the removal of the tribes beyond
the limits of the State as a guaranty against future hostilities. The Commissioner of Indian
Affairs will furnish full details. I submit for your especial consideration whether our Indian
system shall not be remodeled. Many wise and good men have impressed me with the belief that
this can be profitably done.

I submit a statement of the proceedings of commissioners, which shows the progress that has
been made in the enterprise of constructing the Pacific Railroad. And this suggests the earliest
completion of this road, and also the favorable action of Congress upon the projects now pending
before them for enlarging the capacities of the great canals in New York and Illinois, as being
of vital and rapidly increasing importance to the whole nation, and especially to the vast
interior region hereinafter to be noticed at some greater length. I purpose having prepared
and laid before you at an early day some interesting and valuable statistical information upon
this subject. The military and commercial importance of enlarging the Illinois and Michigan
Canal and improving the Illinois River is presented in the report of Colonel Webster to the
Secretary of War, and now transmitted to Congress. I respectfully ask attention to it.

To carry out the provisions of the act of Congress of the 15th of May last, I have caused the
Department of Agriculture of the United States to be organized.

The Commissioner informs me that within the period of a few months this Department has established
an extensive system of correspondence and exchanges, both at home and abroad, which promises
to effect highly beneficial results in the development of a correct knowledge of recent improvements
in agriculture, in the introduction of new products, and in the collection of the agricultural
statistics of the different States.

Also, that it will soon be prepared to distribute largely seeds, cereals, plants, and cuttings,
and has already published and liberally diffused much valuable information in anticipation
of a more elaborate report, which will in due time be furnished, embracing some valuable tests
in chemical science now in progress in the laboratory.

The creation of this Department was for the more immediate benefit of a large class of our
most valuable citizens, and I trust that the liberal basis upon which it has been organized
will not only meet your approbation, but that it will realize at no distant day all the fondest
anticipations of its most sanguine friends and become the fruitful source of advantage to all
our people.

On the 22d day of September last a proclamation was issued by the Executive, a copy of which
is herewith submitted. In accordance with the purpose expressed in the second paragraph of
that paper, I now respectfully recall your attention to what may be called "compensated emancipation."

A nation may be said to consist of its territory, its people, and its laws. The territory is
the only part which is of certain durability. "One generation passeth away and another generation
cometh, but the earth abideth forever." It is of the first importance to duly consider and
estimate this ever-enduring part. That portion of the earth's surface which is owned and inhabited
by the people of the United States is well adapted to be the home of one national family, and
it is not well adapted for two or more. Its vast extent and its variety of climate and productions
are of advantage in this age for one people, whatever they might have been in former ages.
Steam, telegraphs, and intelligence have brought these to be an advantageous combination for
one united people.

In the inaugural address I briefly pointed out the total inadequacy of disunion as a remedy
for the differences between the people of the two sections. I did so in language which I can
not improve, and which, therefore, I beg to repeat: One section of our country believes slavery
is right and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is wrong and ought not to be
extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive-slave clause of the Constitution
and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave trade are each as well enforced, perhaps,
as any law can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports
the law itself. The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases,
and a few break over in each. This I think, can not be perfectly cured, and it would be worse
in both cases after the separation of the sections than before. The foreign slave trade, now
imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived without restriction in one section, while
fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other.
Physically speaking, we can not separate. We can not remove our respective sections from each
other nor build an impassable wall between them. A husband and wife may be divorced and go
out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other, but the different parts of our country
can not do this. They can not but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or
hostile, must continue between them, Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous
or more satisfactory after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends
can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among
friends? Suppose you go to war, you can not fight always; and when, after much loss on both
sides and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions, as to terms of
intercourse, are again upon you. There is no line, straight or crooked, suitable for a national
boundary upon which to divide. Trace through, from east to west, upon the line between the
free and slave country, and we shall find a little more than one-third of its length are rivers,
easy to be crossed, and populated, or soon to be populated, thickly upon both sides; while
nearly all its remaining length are merely surveyors' lines, over which people may walk back
and forth without any consciousness of their presence. No part of this line can be made any
more difficult to pass by writing it down on paper or parchment as a national boundary. The
fact of separation, if it comes, gives up on the part of the seceding section the fugitive-slave
clause, along with all other constitutional obligations upon the section seceded from, while
I should expect no treaty stipulation would ever be made to take its place.

But there is another difficulty. The great interior region bounded east by the Alleghanies,
north by the British dominions, west by the Rocky Mountains, and south by the line along which
the culture of corn and cotton meets, and which includes part of Virginia, part of Tennessee,
all of Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Iowa, Minnesota,
and the Territories of Dakota, Nebraska, and part of Colorado, already has above 10,000,000
people, and will have 50,000,000 within fifty years if not prevented by any political folly
or mistake. It contains more than one-third of the country owned by the United States--certainly
more than 1,000,000 square miles. Once half as populous as Massachusetts already is, it would
have more than 75,000,000 people. A glance at the map shows that, territorially speaking, it
is the great body of the Republic. The other parts are but marginal borders to it. The magnificent
region sloping west from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific being the deepest and also the
richest in undeveloped resources. In the production of provisions grains, grasses, and all
which proceed from them this great interior region is naturally one of the most important in
the world. Ascertain from the statistics the small proportion of the region which has as yet
been brought into cultivation, and also the large and rapidly increasing amount of its products,
and we shall be overwhelmed with the magnitude of the prospect presented. And yet this region
has no seacoast--touches no ocean anywhere. As part of one nation, its people now find, and
may forever find, their way to Europe by New York, to South America and Africa by New Orleans,
and to Asia by San Francisco; but separate our common country into two nations, as designed
by the present rebellion, and every man of this great interior region is thereby cut off from
some one or more of these outlets, not perhaps by a physical barrier, but by embarrassing and
onerous trade regulations.

And this is true, wherever a dividing or boundary line may be fixed. Place it between the now
free and slave country, or place it south of Kentucky or north of Ohio, and still the truth
remains that none south of it can trade to any port or place north of it, and none north of
it can trade to any port or place south of it, except upon terms dictated by a government foreign
to them. These outlets, east, west, and south, are indispensable to the well-being of the people
inhabiting and to inhabit this vast interior region. Which of the three may be the best is
no proper question. All are better than either, and all of right belong to that people and
to their successors forever. True to themselves, they will not ask where a line of separation
shall be, but will vow rather that there shall be no such line. Nor are the marginal regions
less interested in these communications to and through them to the great outside world. They,
too, and each of them, must have access to this Egypt of the West without paying toll at the
crossing of any national boundary.

Our national strife springs not from our permanent part; not from the land we inhabit: not
from our national homestead. There is no possible severing of this but would multiply and not
mitigate evils among us. In all its adaptations and aptitudes it demands union and abhors separation.
In fact, it would ere long force reunion, however much of blood and treasure the separation
might have cost. Our strife pertains to ourselves--to the passing generations of men--and it
can without convulsion be hushed forever with the passing of one generation.

In this view I recommend the adoption of the following resolution and articles amendatory to
the Constitution of the United States: Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of both Houses concurring),
That the following articles be proposed to the legislatures (or conventions) of the several
States as amendments to the Constitution of the United States, all or any of which articles,
when ratified by three-fourths of the said legislatures (or conventions ), to be valid as part
or parts of the said Constitution, viz:

ART.--. Every State wherein slavery now exists which shall abolish the same therein at any
time or times before the 1st day of January, A. D. 1900, shall receive compensation from the
United States as follows, to wit:

The President of the United States shall deliver to every such State bonds of the United States
bearing interest at the rate of per cent per annum to an amount equal to the aggregate sum
of  for each slave shown to have been therein by the Eighth Census of the United States, said
bonds to be delivered to such State by installments or in one parcel at the completion of the
abolishment, accordingly as the same shall have been gradual or at one time within such State;
and interest shall begin to run upon any such bond only from the proper time of its delivery
as aforesaid. Any State having received bonds as aforesaid and afterwards reintroducing or
tolerating slavery therein shall refund to the United States the bonds so received, or the
value thereof, and all interest paid thereon.

ART.--All slaves who shall have enjoyed actual freedom by the chances of the war at any time
before the end of the rebellion shall be forever free; but all owners of such who shall not
have been disloyal shall be compensated for them at the same rates as is provided for States
adopting abolishment of slavery, but in such way that no slave shall be twice accounted for.

ART.--Congress may appropriate money and otherwise provide for colonizing free colored persons
with their own consent at any place or places without the United States. I beg indulgence to
discuss these proposed articles at some length. Without slavery the rebellion could never have
existed; without slavery it could not continue.

Among the friends of the Union there is great diversity of sentiment and of policy in regard
to slavery and the African race amongst us. Some would perpetuate slavery; some would abolish
it suddenly and without compensation; some would abolish it gradually and with compensation:
some would remove the freed people from us, and some would retain them with us; and there are
yet other minor diversities. Because of these diversities we waste much strength in struggles
among ourselves. By mutual concession we should harmonize and act together. This would be compromise,
but it would be compromise among the friends and not with the enemies of the Union. These articles
are intended to embody a plan of such mutual concessions. If the plan shall be adopted, it
is assumed that emancipation will follow, at least in several of the States.

As to the first article, the main points are, first, the emancipation; secondly, the length
of time for consummating it (thirty-seven years); and, thirdly, the compensation.

The emancipation will be unsatisfactory to the advocates of perpetual slavery, but the length
of time should greatly mitigate their dissatisfaction. The time spares both races from the
evils of sudden derangement--in fact, from the necessity of any derangement--while most of
those whose habitual course of thought will be disturbed by the measure will have passed away
before its consummation. They will never see it. Another class will hail the prospect of emancipation,
but will deprecate the length of time. They will feel that it gives too little to the now living
slaves. But it really gives them much. It saves them from the vagrant destitution which must
largely attend immediate emancipation in localities where their numbers are very great, and
it gives the inspiring assurance that their posterity shall be free forever. The plan leaves
to each State choosing to act under it to abolish slavery now or at the end of the century,
or at any intermediate time, or by degrees extending over the whole or any part of the period,
and it obliges no two States to proceed alike. It also provides for compensation, and generally
the mode of making it. This, it would seem, must further mitigate the dissatisfaction of those
who favor perpetual slavery, and especially of those who are to receive the compensation. Doubtless
some of those who are to pay and not to receive will object. Yet the measure is both just and
economical. In a certain sense the liberation of slaves is the destruction of property--property
acquired by descent or by purchase, the same as any other property. It is no less true for
having been often said that the people of the South are not more responsible for the original
introduction of this property than are the people of the North; and when it is remembered how
unhesitatingly we all use cotton and sugar and share the profits of dealing in them, it may
not be quite safe to say that the South has been more responsible than the North for its continuance.
If, then, for a common object this property is to be sacrificed, is it not just that it be
done at a common charge?

And if with less money, or money more easily paid, we can preserve the benefits of the Union
by this means than we can by the war alone, is it not also economical to do it? Let us consider
it, then. Let us ascertain the sum we have expended in the war since compensated emancipation
was proposed last March, and consider whether if that measure had been promptly accepted by
even some of the slave States the same sum would not have done more to close the war than has
been otherwise done. If so, the measure would save money, and in that view would be a prudent
and economical measure. Certainly it is not so easy to pay something as it is to pay nothing,
but it is easier to pay a large sum than it is to pay a larger one. And it is easier to pay
any sum when we are able than it is to pay it before we are able. The war requires large sums,
and requires them at once. The aggregate sum necessary for compensated emancipation of course
would be large. But it would require no ready cash, nor the bonds even any faster than the
emancipation progresses. This might not, and probably would not, close before the end of the
thirty-seven years. At that time we shall probably have a hundred millions of people to share
the burden, instead of thirty-one millions as now. And not only so, but the increase of our
population may be expected to continue for a long time after that period as rapidly as before,
because our territory will not have become full. I do not state this inconsiderately. At the
same ratio of increase which we have maintained, on an average, from our first national census,
in 1790, until that of 1860, we should in 1900 have a population of 103,208,415. And why may
we not continue that ratio far beyond that period? Our abundant room, our broad national homestead,
is our ample resource. Were our territory as limited as are the British Isles, very certainly
our population could not expand as stated. Instead of receiving the foreign born as now, we
should be compelled to send part of the native born away. But such is not our condition. We
have 2,963,000 square miles. Europe has 3,800,000, with a population averaging 73 1/3 persons
to the square mile. Why may not our country at some time average as many? Is it less fertile?
Has it more waste surface by mountains, rivers, lakes, deserts, or other causes? Is it inferior
to Europe in any natural advantage? If, then, we are at some time to be as populous as Europe,
how soon? As to when this may be, we can judge by the past and the present; as to when it will
be, if ever, depends much on whether we maintain the Union. Several of our States are already
above the average of Europe 73 1/3 to the square mile. Massachusetts has 157; Rhode Island,
133; Connecticut, 99; New York and New Jersey, each 80. Also two other great States, Pennsylvania
and Ohio, are not far below, the former having 63 and the latter 59. The States already above
the European average, except New York, have increased in as rapid a ratio since passing that
point as ever before, while no one of them is equal to some other parts of our country in natural
capacity for sustaining a dense population.

Taking the nation in the aggregate, and we find its population and ratio of increase for the
several decennial periods to be as follows:

Year - Population - Ratio of increase.

- - Per cent.

1790 - 3,929,827 - ..........

1800 - 5,304,937 - 35.02

1810 - 7,239,814 - 36.45

1820 - 9,638,131 - 36.45

1830 - 12,866,020 - 33.49

1840 - 17,069,453 - 32.67

1850 - 23,191,876 - 35.87

1860 - 31,443,790 - 35.58

This shows an average decennial increase of 34.60 per cent in population through the seventy
years from our first to our last census yet taken. It is seen that the ratio of increase at
no one of these seven periods is either 2 per cent below or 2 per cent above the average, thus
showing how inflexible, and consequently how reliable, the law of increase in our case is.
Assuming that it will continue, it gives the following results:

Year - Population

1870 - 42,323,341

1880 - 56,967,216

1890 - 76,677,872

1900 - 103,208,415

1910 - 138,918,526

1920 - 186,984,335

1930 - 251,680,914

These figures show that our country may be as populous as Europe now is at some point between
1920 and 1930--say about 1925--our territory, at 73 1/3 persons to the square mile, being of
capacity to contain 217,186,000.

And we will reach this, too, if we do not ourselves relinquish the chance by the folly and
evils of disunion or by long and exhausting war springing from the only great element of national
discord among us. While it can not be foreseen exactly how much one huge example of secession,
breeding lesser ones indefinitely, would retard population, civilization, and prosperity, no
one can doubt that the extent of it would be very great and injurious.

The proposed emancipation would shorten the war, perpetuate peace, insure this increase of
population, and proportionately the wealth of the country. With these we should pay all the
emancipation would cost, together with our other debt, easier than we should pay our other
debt without it. If we had allowed our old national debt to run at 6 per cent per annum, simple
interest, from the end of our revolutionary struggle until to-day, without paying anything
on either principal or interest, each man of us would owe less upon that debt now than each
man owed upon it then; and this because our increase of men through the whole period has been
greater than 6 per cent--has run faster than the interest upon the debt. Thus time alone relieves
a debtor nation, so long as its population increases faster than unpaid interest accumulates
on its debt.

This fact would be no excuse for delaying payment of what is justly due, but it shows the great
importance of time in this connection--the great advantage of a policy by which we shall not
have to pay until we number 100,000,000 what by a different policy we would have to pay now,
when we number but 31,000,000. In a word, it shows that a dollar will be much harder to pay
for the war than will be a dollar for emancipation on the proposed plan. And then the latter
will cost no blood, no precious life. It will be a saving of both.

As to the second article, I think it would be impracticable to return to bondage the class
of persons therein contemplated. Some of them, doubtless, in the property sense belong to loyal
owners, and hence provision is made in this article for compensating such. The third article
relates to the future of the freed people. It does not oblige, but merely authorizes Congress
to aid in colonizing such as may consent. This ought not to be regarded as objectionable on
the one hand or on the other, insomuch as it comes to nothing unless by the mutual consent
of the people to be deported and the American voters, through their representatives in Congress.

I can not make it better known than it already is that I strongly favor colonization; and yet
I wish to say there is an objection urged against free colored persons remaining in the country
which is largely imaginary, if not sometimes malicious.

It is insisted that their presence would injure and displace white labor and white laborers.
If there ever could be a proper time for mere catch arguments, that time surely is not now.
In times like the present men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible
through time and in eternity. Is it true, then, that colored people can displace any more white
labor by being free than by remaining slaves? If they stay in their old places, they jostle
no white laborers; if they leave their old places, they leave them open to white laborers.
Logically, there is neither more nor less of it. Emancipation, even without deportation, would
probably enhance the wages of white labor, and very surely would not reduce them. Thus the
customary amount of labor would still have to be performed--the freed people would surely not
do more than their old proportion of it, and very probably for a time would do less, leaving
an increased part to white laborers, bringing their labor into greater demand, and consequently
enhancing the wages of it. With deportation, even to a limited extent, enhanced wages to white
labor is mathematically certain. Labor is like any other commodity in the market--increase
the demand for it and you increase the price of it. Reduce the supply of black labor by colonizing
the black laborer out of the country, and by precisely so much you increase the demand for
and wages of white labor.

But it is dreaded that the freed people will swarm forth and cover the whole land. Are they
not already in the land? Will liberation make them any more numerous? Equally distributed among
the whites of the whole country, and there would be but one colored to seven whites. Could
the one in any way greatly disturb the seven? There are many communities now having more than
one free colored person to seven whites and this without any apparent consciousness of evil
from it. The District of Columbia and the States of Maryland and Delaware are all in this condition.
The District has more than one free colored to six whites, and yet in its frequent petitions
to Congress I believe it has never presented the presence of free colored persons as one of
its grievances. But why should emancipation South send the free people North? People of any
color seldom run unless there be something to run from. Heretofore colored people to some extent
have fled North from bondage, and now, perhaps, from both bondage and destitution. But if gradual
emancipation and deportation be adopted, they will have neither to flee from. Their old masters
will give them wages at least until new laborers can be procured, and the freedmen in turn
will gladly give their labor for the wages till new homes can be found for them in congenial
climes and with people of their own blood and race. This proposition can be trusted on the
mutual interests involved. And in any event, can not the North decide for itself whether to
receive them?

Again, as practice proves more than theory in any case, has there been any irruption of colored
people northward because of the abolishment of slavery in this District last spring?

What I have said of the proportion of free colored persons to the whites in the District is
from the census of 1860, having no reference to persons called contrabands nor to those made
free by the act of Congress abolishing slavery here.

The plan consisting of these articles is recommended, not but that a restoration of the national
authority would be accepted without its adoption.

Nor will the war nor proceedings under the proclamation of September 22, 1862, be stayed because
of the recommendation of this plan. Its timely adoption, I doubt not, would bring restoration,
and thereby stay both.

And notwithstanding this plan, the recommendation that Congress provide by law for compensating
any State which may adopt emancipation before this plan shall have been acted upon is hereby
earnestly renewed. Such would be only an advance part of the plan, and the same arguments apply
to both.

This plan is recommended as a means, not in exclusion of, but additional to, all others for
restoring and preserving the national authority throughout the Union. The subject is presented
exclusively in its economical aspect. The plan would, I am confident, secure peace more speedily
and maintain it more permanently than can be done by force alone, while all it would cost,
considering amounts and manner of payment and times of payment, would be easier paid than will
be the additional cost of the war if we rely solely upon force. It is much, very much, that
it would cost no blood at all.

The plan is proposed as permanent constitutional law. It can not become such without the concurrence
of, first, two-thirds of Congress, and afterwards three-fourths of the States. The requisite
three-fourths of the States will necessarily include seven of the slave States. Their concurrence,
if obtained, will give assurance of their severally adopting emancipation at no very distant
day upon the new constitutional terms. This assurance would end the struggle now and save the
Union forever.

I do not forget the gravity which should characterize a paper addressed to the Congress of
the nation by the Chief Magistrate of the nation, nor do I forget that some of you are my seniors,
nor that many of you have more experience than I in the conduct of public affairs. Yet I trust
that in view of the great responsibility resting upon me you will perceive no want of respect
to yourselves in any undue earnestness I may seem to display.

Is it doubted, then, that the plan I propose, if adopted, would shorten the war, and thus lessen
its expenditure of money and of blood? Is it doubted that it would restore the national authority
and national prosperity and perpetuate both indefinitely? Is it doubted that we here--Congress
and Executive can secure its adoption? Will not the good people respond to a united and earnest
appeal from us? Can we, can they, by any other means so certainly or so speedily assure these
vital objects? We can succeed only by concert. It is not "Can any of us imagine better?" but
"Can we all do better?" Object whatsoever is possible, still the question recurs, "Can we do
better?" The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is
piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must
think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country.

Fellow-citizens, we can not escape history. We of this Congress and this Administration will
be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance or insignificance can spare one
or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass will light us down in honor or dishonor
to the latest generation. We say we are for the Union. The world will not forget that we say
this. We know how to save the Union. The world knows we do know how to save it. We, even we
here, hold the power and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave we assure
freedom to the free--honorable alike in what we give and what we preserve. We shall nobly save
or meanly lose the last best hope of earth. Other means may succeed; this could not fail. The
way is plain, peaceful, generous, just--a way which if followed the world will forever applaud
and God must forever bless.

***

State of the Union Address Abraham Lincoln December 8, 1863

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Another year of health and of sufficiently abundant harvests has passed. For these, and especially
for the improved condition of our national affairs, our renewed and profoundest gratitude to
God is due.

We remain in peace and friendship with foreign powers.

The efforts of disloyal citizens of the United States to involve us in foreign wars to aid
an inexcusable insurrection have been unavailing. Her Britannic Majesty's Government, as was
justly expected, have exercised their authority to prevent the departure of new hostile expeditions
from British ports. The Emperor of France has by a like proceeding promptly vindicated the
neutrality which he proclaimed at the beginning of the contest. Questions of great intricacy
and importance have arisen out of the blockade and other belligerent operations between the
Government and several of the maritime powers, but they have been discussed and, as far as
was possible, accommodated in a spirit of frankness, justice, and mutual good will. It is especially
gratifying that our prize courts, by the impartiality of their adjudications, have commanded
the respect and confidence of maritime powers.

The supplemental treaty between the United States and Great Britain for the suppression of
the African slave trade, made on the 17th day of February last, has been duly ratified and
carried into execution. It is believed that so far as American ports and American citizens
are concerned that inhuman and odious traffic has been brought to an end.

I shall submit for the consideration of the Senate a convention for the adjustment of possessory
claims in Washington Territory arising out of the treaty of the 15th June, 1846, between the
United States and Great Britain, and which have been the source of some disquiet among the
citizens of that now rapidly improving part of the country.

A novel and important question, involving the extent of the maritime jurisdiction of Spain
in the waters which surround the island of Cuba, has been debated without reaching an agreement,
and it is proposed in an amicable spirit to refer it to the arbitrament of a friendly power.
A convention for that purpose will be submitted to the Senate.

I have thought it proper, subject to the approval of the Senate, to concur with the interested
commercial powers in an arrangement for the liquidation of the Scheldt dues, upon the principles
which have been heretofore adopted in regard to the imposts upon navigation in the waters of
Denmark.  The long-pending controversy between this Government and that of Chile touching the
seizure at Sitana, in Peru, by Chilean officers, of a large amount in treasure belonging to
citizens of the United States has been brought to a close by the award of His Majesty the King
of the Belgians, to whose arbitration the question was referred by the parties. The subject
was thoroughly and patiently examined by that justly respected magistrate, and although the
sum awarded to the claimants may not have been as large as they expected there is no reason
to distrust the wisdom of His Majesty's decision. That decision was promptly complied with
by Chile when intelligence in regard to it reached that country.

The joint commission under the act of the last session for carrying into effect the convention
with Peru on the subject of claims has been organized at Lima, and is engaged in the business
intrusted to it.

Difficulties concerning interoceanic transit through Nicaragua are in course of amicable adjustment.

In conformity with principles set forth in my last annual message, I have received a representative
from the United States of Colombia, and have accredited a minister to that Republic.

Incidents occurring in the progress of our civil war have forced upon my attention the uncertain
state of international questions touching the rights of foreigners in this country and of United
States citizens abroad. In regard to some governments these rights are at least partially,
defined by treaties. In no instance, however, is it expressly stipulated that in the event
of civil war a foreigner residing in this country within the lines of the insurgents is to
be exempted from the rule which classes him as a belligerent, in whose behalf the Government
or his country can not expect any privileges or immunities distinct from that character. I
regret to say, however, that such claims have been put forward, and in some instances in behalf
of foreigners who have lived in the United States the greater part of their lives.

There is reason to believe that many persons born in foreign countries who have declared their
intention to become citizens, or who have been fully naturalized, have evaded the military
duty required of them by denying the fact and thereby throwing upon the Government the burden
of proof. It has been found difficult or impracticable to obtain this proof, from the want
of guides to the proper sources of information. These might be supplied by requiring clerks
of courts where declarations of intention may be made or naturalizations effected to send periodically
lists of the names of the persons naturalized or declaring their intention to become citizens
to the Secretary of the Interior, in whose Department those names might be arranged and printed
for general information.

There is also reason to believe that foreigners frequently become citizens of the United States
for the sole purpose of evading duties imposed by the laws of their native countries, to which
on becoming naturalized here they at once repair, and though never returning to the United
States they still claim the interposition of this Government as citizens. Many altercations
and great prejudices have heretofore arisen out of this abuse. It is therefore submitted to
your serious consideration. It might be advisable to fix a limit beyond which no citizen of
the United States residing abroad may claim the interposition of his Government.

The right of suffrage has often been assumed and exercised by aliens under pretenses of naturalization,
which they have disavowed when drafted into the military service. I submit the expediency of
such an amendment of the law as will make the fact of voting an estoppel against any plea of
exemption from military service or other civil obligation on the ground of alienage.

In common with other Western powers, our relations with Japan have been brought into serious
jeopardy through the perverse opposition of the hereditary aristocracy of the Empire to the
enlightened and liberal policy of the Tycoon, designed to bring the country into the society
of nations. It is hoped, although not with entire confidence, that these difficulties may be
peacefully overcome. I ask your attention to the claim of the minister residing there for the
damages he sustained in the destruction by fire of the residence of the legation at Yedo.

Satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Emperor of Russia, which, it is believed,
will result in effecting a continuous line of telegraph through that Empire from our Pacific coast.

I recommend to your favorable consideration the subject of an international telegraph across
the Atlantic Ocean, and also of a telegraph between this capital and the national forts along
the Atlantic seaboard and the Gulf of Mexico. Such communications, established with any reasonable
outlay, would be economical as well as effective aids to the diplomatic, military, and naval
service.

The consular system of the United States, under the enactments of the last Congress, begins
to be self-sustaining, and there is reason to hope that it may become entirely so with the
increase of trade which will ensue whenever peace is restored. Our ministers abroad have been
faithful in defending American rights. In protecting commercial interests our consuls have
necessarily had to encounter increased labors and responsibilities growing out of the war.
These they have for the most part met and discharged with zeal and efficiency. This acknowledgment
justly includes those consuls who, residing in Morocco, Egypt, Turkey, Japan, China, and other
Oriental countries, are charged with complex functions and extraordinary powers.

The condition of the several organized Territories is generally satisfactory, although Indian
disturbances in New Mexico have not been entirely suppressed. The mineral resources of Colorado,
Nevada, Idaho, New Mexico, and Arizona are proving far richer than has been heretofore understood.
I lay before you a communication on this subject from the governor of New Mexico. I again submit
to your consideration the expediency of establishing a system for the encouragement of immigration.
Although this source of national wealth and strength is again flowing with greater freedom
than for several years before the insurrection occurred, there is still a great deficiency
of laborers in every field of industry, especially in agriculture and in our mines, as well
of iron and coal as of the precious metals. While the demand for labor is much increased here,
tens of thousands of persons, destitute of remunerative occupation, are thronging our foreign
consulates and offering to emigrate to the United States if essential, but very cheap, assistance
can be afforded them. It is easy to see that under the sharp discipline of civil war the nation
is beginning a new life. This noble effort demands the aid and ought to receive the attention
and support of the Government.

Injuries unforeseen by the Government and unintended may in some cases have been inflicted
on the subjects or citizens of foreign countries, both at sea and on land, by persons in the
service of the United States. As this Government expects redress from other powers when similar
injuries are inflicted by persons in their service upon citizens of the United States, we must
be prepared to do justice to foreigners. If the existing judicial tribunals are inadequate
to this purpose, a special court may be authorized, with power to hear and decide such claims
of the character referred to as may have arisen under treaties and the public law. Conventions
for adjusting the claims by joint commission have been proposed to some governments, but no
definitive answer to the proposition has yet been received from any.

In the course of the session I shall probably have occasion to request you to provide indemnification
to claimants where decrees of restitution have been rendered and damages awarded by admiralty
courts, and in other cases where this Government may be acknowledged to be liable in principle
and where the amount of that liability has been ascertained by an informal arbitration.

The proper officers of the Treasury have deemed themselves required by the law of the United
States upon the subject to demand a tax upon the incomes of foreign consuls in this country.
While such a demand may not in strictness be in derogation of public law, or perhaps of any
existing treaty between the United States and a foreign country, the expediency of so far modifying
the act as to exempt from tax the income of such consuls as are not citizens of the United
States, derived from the emoluments of their office or from property not situated in the United
States, is submitted to your serious consideration. I make this suggestion upon the ground
that a comity which ought to be reciprocated exempts our consuls in all other countries from
taxation to the extent thus indicated. The United States, I think, ought not to be exceptionally
illiberal to international trade and commerce.

The operations of the Treasury during the last year have been successfully conducted. The enactment
by Congress of a national banking law has proved a valuable support of the public credit and
the general legislation in relation to loans has fully answered the expectations of its favorers.
Some amendments may be required to perfect existing laws, but no change in their principles
or general scope is believed to be needed.

Since these measures have been in operation all demands on the Treasury, including the pay
of the Army and Navy, have been promptly met and fully satisfied. No considerable body of troops,
it is believed, were ever more amply provided and more liberally and punctually paid, and it
may be added that by no people were the burdens incident to a great war ever more cheerfully borne.

The receipts during the year from all sources, including loans and balance in the Treasury
at its commencement, were $901,125,674.86, and the aggregate disbursements $895,796,630.65,
leaving a balance on the 1st of July, 1863, of $5,329,044.21. Of the receipts there were derived
from customs $69,059,642.40, from internal revenue $37,640,787.95, from direct tax $1,485,103.61,
from lands $167,617.17, from miscellaneous sources $3,046,615.35, and from loans $776,682,361.57,
making the aggregate $901,125,674.86. Of the disbursements there were for the civil service
$23,253,922.08, for pensions and Indians $4,216,520.79, for interest on public debt $24,729,846.51,
for the War Department $599,298,600.83, for the Navy Department $63,211,105.27, for payment
of funded and temporary debt $181,086,635.07, making the aggregate $895,796,630.65 and leaving
the balance of $5,329,044.21. But the payment of funded and temporary debt, having been made
from moneys borrowed during the year, must be regarded as merely nominal payments and the moneys
borrowed to make them as merely nominal receipts, and their amount, $181,086,635.07, should
therefore be deducted both from receipts and disbursements. This being done there remains as
actual receipts $720,039,039.79 and the actual disbursements $714,709,995.58, leaving the balance
as already stated.

The actual receipts and disbursements for the first quarter and the estimated receipts and
disbursements for the remaining three quarters of the current fiscal year (1864) will be shown
in detail by the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to which I invite your attention.
It is sufficient to say here that it is not believed that actual results will exhibit a state
of the finances less favorable to the country than the estimates of that officer heretofore
submitted, while it is confidently expected that at the close of the year both disbursements
and debt will be found very considerably less than has been anticipated.

The report of the Secretary of War is a document of great interest. It consists of--

1. The military operations of the year, detailed in the report of the General in Chief. 2.
The organization of colored persons into the war service. 3. The exchange of prisoners, fully
set forth in the letter of General Hitchcock. 4. The operations under the act for enrolling
and calling out the national forces, detailed in the report of the Provost-Marshal-General.
5. The organization of the invalid corps, and 6. The operation of the several departments of
the Quartermaster-General, Commissary-General, Paymaster-General, Chief of Engineers, Chief
of Ordnance, and Surgeon-General.

It has appeared impossible to make a valuable summary of this report, except such as would
be too extended for this place, and hence I content myself by asking your careful attention
to the report itself.

The duties devolving on the naval branch of the service during the year and throughout the
whole of this unhappy contest have been discharged with fidelity and eminent success. The extensive
blockade has been constantly increasing in efficiency as the Navy has expanded, yet on so long
a line it has so far been impossible to entirely suppress illicit trade. From returns received
at the Navy Department it appears that more than 1,000 vessels have been captured since the
blockade was instituted, and that the value of prizes already sent in for adjudication amounts
to over $13,000,000.

The naval force of the United States consists at this time of 588 vessels completed and in
the course of completion, and of these 75 are ironclad or armored steamers. The events of the
war give an increased interest and importance to the Navy which will probably extend beyond
the war itself.

The armored vessels in our Navy completed and in service, or which are under contract and approaching
completion, are believed to exceed in number those of any other power; but while these may
be relied upon for harbor defense and coast service, others of greater strength and capacity
will be necessary for cruising purposes and to maintain our rightful position on the ocean.

The change that has taken place in naval vessels and naval warfare since the introduction of
steam as a motive power for ships of war demands either a corresponding change in some of our
existing navy-yards or the establishment of new ones for the construction and necessary repair
of modern naval vessels. No inconsiderable embarrassment, delay, and public injury have been
experienced from the want of such governmental establishments. The necessity of such a navy-yard,
so furnished, at some suitable place upon the Atlantic seaboard has on repeated occasions been
brought to the attention of Congress by the Navy Department, and is again presented in the
report of the Secretary which accompanies this communication. I think it my duty to invite
your special attention to this subject, and also to that of establishing a yard and depot for
naval purposes upon one of the Western rivers. A naval force has been created on those interior
waters, and under many disadvantages, within little more than two years, exceeding in numbers
the whole naval force of the country at the commencement of the present Administration. Satisfactory
and important as have been the performances of the heroic men of the Navy at this interesting
period, they are scarcely more wonderful than the success of our mechanics and artisans in
the production of war vessels, which has created a new form of naval power.

Our country has advantages superior to any other nation in our resources of iron and timber,
with inexhaustible quantities of fuel in the immediate vicinity of both, and all available
and in close proximity to navigable waters. Without the advantage of public works, the resources
of the nation have been developed and its power displayed in the construction of a Navy of
such magnitude, which has at the very period of its creation rendered signal service to the Union.

The increase of the number of seamen in the public service from 7,500 men in the spring of
1861 to about 34,000 at the present time has been accomplished without special legislation
or extraordinary bounties to promote that increase. It has been found, however, that the operation
of the draft, with the high bounties paid for army recruits, is beginning to affect injuriously
the naval service, and will, if not corrected, be likely to impair its efficiency by detaching
seamen from their proper vocation and inducing them to enter the Army. I therefore respectfully
suggest that Congress might aid both the army and naval services by a definite provision on
this subject which would at the same time be equitable to the communities more especially interested.

I commend to your consideration the suggestions of the Secretary of the Navy in regard to the
policy of fostering and training seamen and also the education of officers and engineers for
the naval service. The Naval Academy is rendering signal service in preparing midshipmen for
the highly responsible duties which in after life they will be required to perform. In order
that the country should not be deprived of the proper quota of educated officers, for which
legal provision has been made at the naval school, the vacancies caused by the neglect or omission
to make nominations from the States in insurrection have been filled by the Secretary of the
Navy. The school is now more full and complete than at any former period, and in every respect
entitled to the favorable consideration of Congress.

During the past fiscal year the financial condition of the Post-Office Department has been
one of increasing prosperity, and I am gratified in being able to state that the actual postal
revenue has nearly equaled the entire expenditures, the latter amounting to $11,314,206.84
and the former to $11,163,789.59, leaving a deficiency of but $150,417.25. In 1860, the year
immediately preceding the rebellion, the deficiency amounted to $5,656,705.49, the postal receipts
of that year being $2,645,722.19 less than those of 1863. The decrease since 1860 in the annual
amount of transportation has been only about 25 per cent, but the annual expenditure on account
of the same has been reduced 35 per cent. It is manifest, therefore, that the Post-Office Department
may become self-sustaining in a few years, even with the restoration of the whole service.

The international conference of postal delegates from the principal countries of Europe and
America, which was called at the suggestion of the Postmaster-General, met at Paris on the
11th of May last and concluded its deliberations on the 8th of June. The principles established
by the conference as best adapted to facilitate postal intercourse between nations and as the
basis of future postal conventions inaugurate a general system of uniform international charges
at reduced rates of postage, and can not fail to produce beneficial results.

I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Interior, which is herewith laid before you,
for useful and varied information in relation to the public lands, Indian affairs, patents,
pensions, and other matters of public concern pertaining to his Department.

The quantity of land disposed of during the last and the first quarter of the present fiscal
years was 3,841,549 acres, of which 161,911 acres were sold for cash, 1,456,514 acres were
taken up under the homestead law, and the residue disposed of under laws granting lands for
military bounties, for railroad and other purposes. It also appears that the sale of the public
lands is largely on the increase.

It has long been a cherished opinion of some of our wisest statesmen that the people of the
United States had a higher and more enduring interest in the early settlement and substantial
cultivation of the public lands than in the amount of direct revenue to be derived from the
sale of them. This opinion has had a controlling influence in shaping legislation upon the
subject of our national domain. I may cite as evidence of this the liberal measures adopted
in reference to actual settlers; the grant to the States of the overflowed lands within their
limits, in order to their being reclaimed and rendered fit for cultivation; the grants to railway
companies of alternate sections of land upon the contemplated issues of their roads, which
when completed will so largely multiply the facilities for reaching our distant possessions.
This policy has received its most signal and beneficent illustration in the recent enactment
granting homesteads to actual settlers. Since the 1st day of January last the before-mentioned
quantity of 1,456,514 acres of land have been taken up under its provisions. This fact and
the amount of sales furnish gratifying evidence of increasing settlement upon the public lands,
notwithstanding the great struggle in which the energies of the nation have been engaged, and
which has required so large a withdrawal of our citizens from their accustomed pursuits. I
cordially concur in the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior suggesting a modification
of the act in favor of those engaged in the military and naval service of the United States.
I doubt not that Congress will cheerfully adopt such measures as will, without essentially
changing the general features of the system, secure to the greatest practicable extent its
benefits to those who have left their homes in the defense of the country in this arduous crisis.

I invite your attention to the views of the Secretary as to the propriety of raising by appropriate
legislation a revenue from the mineral lands of the United States.

The measures provided at your last session for the removal of certain Indian tribes have been
carried into effect. Sundry treaties have been negotiated, which will in due time be submitted
for the constitutional action of the Senate. They contain stipulations for extinguishing the
possessory rights of the Indians to large and valuable tracts of lands. It is hoped that the
effect of these treaties will result in the establishment of permanent friendly relations with
such of these tribes as have been brought into frequent and bloody collision with our outlying
settlements and emigrants. Sound policy and our imperative duty to these wards of the Government
demand our anxious and constant attention to their material well-being, to their progress in
the arts of civilization, and, above all, to that moral training which under the blessing of
Divine Providence will confer upon them the elevated and sanctifying influences, the hopes
and consolations, of the Christian faith. I suggested in my last annual message the propriety
of remodeling our Indian system. Subsequent events have satisfied me of its necessity. The
details set forth in the report of the Secretary evince the urgent need for immediate legislative
action.

I commend the benevolent institutions established or patronized by the Government in this District
to your generous and fostering care. The attention of Congress during the last session was
engaged to some extent with a proposition for enlarging the water communication between the
Mississippi River and the northeastern seaboard, which proposition, however, failed for the
time. Since then, upon a call of the greatest respectability, a convention has been held at
Chicago upon the same subject, a summary of whose views is contained in a memorial addressed
to the President and Congress, and which I now have the honor to lay before you. That this
interest is one which ere long will force its own way I do not entertain a doubt, while it
is submitted entirely to your wisdom as to what can be done now. Augmented interest is given
to this subject by the actual commencement of work upon the Pacific Railroad, under auspices
so favorable to rapid progress and completion. The enlarged navigation becomes a palpable need
to the great road.

I transmit the second annual report of the Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture, asking
your attention to the developments in that vital interest of the nation. When Congress assembled
a year ago, the war had already lasted nearly twenty months, and there had been many conflicts
on both land and sea, with varying results; the rebellion had been pressed back into reduced
limits; yet the tone of public feeling and opinion, at home and abroad was not satisfactory.
With other signs, the popular elections then just past indicated uneasiness among ourselves,
while, amid much that was cold and menacing, the kindest words coming from Europe were uttered
in accents of pity that we were too blind to surrender a hopeless cause. Our commerce was suffering
greatly by a few armed vessels built upon and furnished from foreign shores, and we were threatened
with such additions from the same quarter as would sweep our trade from the sea and raise our
blockade. We had failed to elicit from European Governments anything hopeful upon this subject.
The preliminary emancipation proclamation, issued in September, was running its assigned period
to the beginning of the new year. A month later the final proclamation came, including the
announcement that colored men of suitable condition would be received into the war service.
The policy of emancipation and of employing black soldiers gave to the future a new aspect,
about which hope and fear and doubt contended in uncertain conflict. According to our political
system, as a matter of civil administration, the General Government had no lawful power to
effect emancipation in any State, and for a long time it had been hoped that the rebellion
could be suppressed without resorting to it as a military measure. It was all the while deemed
possible that the necessity for it might come, and that if it should the crisis of the contest
would then be presented. It came, and, as was anticipated, it was followed by dark and doubtful
days. Eleven months having now passed, we are permitted to take another review. The rebel borders
are pressed still farther back, and by the complete opening of the Mississippi the country
dominated by the rebellion is divided into distinct parts, with no practical communication
between them. Tennessee and Arkansas have been substantially cleared of insurgent control,
and influential citizens in each, owners of slaves and advocates of slavery at the beginning
of the rebellion, now declare openly for emancipation in their respective States. Of those
States not included in the emancipation proclamation, Maryland and Missouri, neither of which
three years ago would tolerate any restraint upon the extension of slavery into new Territories,
only dispute now as to the best mode of removing it within their own limits.

Of those who were slaves at the beginning of the rebellion full 100,000 are now in the United
States military service, about one-half of which number actually bear arms in the ranks, thus
giving the double advantage of taking so much labor from the insurgent cause and supplying
the places which otherwise must be filled with so many white men. So far as tested, it is difficult
to say they are not as good soldiers as any. No servile insurrection or tendency to violence
or cruelty has marked the measures of emancipation and arming the blacks. These measures have
been much discussed in foreign countries, and, contemporary with such discussion, the tone
of public sentiment there is much improved. At home the same measures have been fully discussed,
supported, criticised, and denounced, and the annual elections following are highly encouraging
to those whose official duty it is to bear the country through this great trial. Thus we have
the new reckoning. The crisis which threatened to divide the friends of the Union is past.

Looking now to the present and future, and with reference to a resumption of the national authority
within the States wherein that authority has been suspended, I have thought fit to issue a
proclamation, a copy of which is herewith transmitted. On examination of this proclamation
it will appear, as is believed, that nothing will be attempted beyond what is amply justified
by the Constitution. True, the form of an oath is given, but no man is coerced to take it.
The man is only promised a pardon in case he voluntarily takes the oath. The Constitution authorizes
the Executive to grant or withhold the pardon at his own absolute discretion, and this includes
the power to grant on terms, as is fully established by judicial and other authorities.

It is also proffered that if in any of the States named a State government shall be in the
mode prescribed set up, such government shall be recognized and guaranteed by the United States,
and that under it the State shall, on the constitutional conditions, be protected against invasion
and domestic violence. The constitutional obligation of the United States to guarantee to every
State in the Union a republican form of government and to protect the State in the cases stated
is explicit and full. But why tender the benefits of this provision only to a State government
set up in this particular way? This section of the Constitution contemplates a case wherein
the element within a State favorable to republican government in the Union may be too feeble
for an opposite and hostile element external to or even within the State, and such are precisely
the cases with which we are now dealing.

An attempt to guarantee and protect a revived State government, constructed in whole or in
preponderating part from the very element against whose hostility and violence it is to be
protected, is simply absurd. There must be a test by which to separate the opposing elements,
so as to build only from the sound; and that test is a sufficiently liberal one which accepts
as sound whoever will make a sworn recantation of his former unsoundness.

But if it be proper to require as a test of admission to the political body an oath of allegiance
to the Constitution of the United States and to the Union under it, why also to the laws and
proclamations in regard to slavery? Those laws and proclamations were enacted and put forth
for the purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion. To give them their fullest effect
there had to be a pledge for their maintenance. In my judgment, they have aided and will further
aid the cause for which they were intended. To now abandon them would be not only to relinquish
a lever of power, but would also be a cruel and an astounding breach of faith. I may add at
this point that while I remain in my present position I shall not attempt to retract or modify
the emancipation proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the
terms of that proclamation or by any of the acts of Congress. For these and other reasons it
is thought best that support of these measures shall be included in the oath, and it is believed
the Executive may lawfully claim it in return for pardon and restoration of forfeited rights,
which he has clear constitutional power to withhold altogether or grant upon the terms which
he shall deem wisest for the public interest. It should be observed also that this part of
the oath is subject to the modifying and abrogating power of legislation and supreme judicial
decision.

The proposed acquiescence of the National Executive in any reasonable temporary State arrangement
for the freed people is made with the view of possibly modifying the confusion and destitution
which must at best attend all classes by a total revolution of labor throughout whole States.
It is hoped that the already deeply afflicted people in those States may be somewhat more ready
to give up the cause of their affliction if to this extent this vital matter be left to themselves,
while no power of the National Executive to prevent an abuse is abridged by the proposition.

The suggestion in the proclamation as to maintaining the political framework of the States
on what is called reconstruction is made in the hope that it may do good without danger of
harm. It will save labor and avoid great confusion.

But why any proclamation now upon this subject? This question is beset with the conflicting
views that the step might be delayed too long or be taken too soon. In some States the elements
for resumption seem ready for action, but remain inactive apparently for want of a rallying
point--a plan of action, Why shall A adopt the plan of B rather than B that of A? And if A
and B should agree, how can they know but that the General Government here will reject their
plan? By the proclamation a plan is presented which may be accepted by them as a rallying point,
and which they are assured in advance will not be rejected here. This may bring them to act
sooner than they otherwise would. The objections to a premature presentation of a plan by the
National Executive consist in the danger of committals on points which could be more safely
left to further developments. Care has been taken to so shape the document as to avoid embarrassments
from this source. Saying that on certain terms certain classes will be pardoned with rights
restored, it is not said that other classes or other terms will never be in included. Saying
specified way, it is said that reconstruction will be accepted if presented in a not said it
will never be accepted in any other way.

The movements by State action for emancipation in several of the States not included in the
emancipation proclamation are matters of profound gratulation. And while I do not repeat in
detail what I have heretofore so earnestly urged upon this subject, my general views and feelings
remain unchanged; and I trust that Congress will omit no fair opportunity of aiding these important
steps to a great consummation. In the midst of other cares, however important, we must not
lose sight of the fact that the war power is still our main reliance. To that power alone can
we look yet for a time to give confidence to the people in the contested regions that the insurgent
power will not again overrun them. Until that confidence shall be established little can be
done anywhere for what is called reconstruction. Hence our chiefest care must still be directed
to the Army and Navy, who have thus far borne their harder part so nobly and well; and it may
be esteemed fortunate that in giving the greatest efficiency to these indispensable arms we
do also honorably recognize the gallant men, from commander to sentinel, who compose them,
and to whom more than to others the world must stand indebted for the home of freedom disenthralled,
regenerated, enlarged, and perpetuated.

***

State of the Union Address Abraham Lincoln December 6, 1864

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Again the blessings of health and abundant harvests claim our profoundest gratitude to Almighty
God.

The condition of our foreign affairs is reasonably satisfactory.

Mexico continues to be a theater of civil war. While our political relations with that country
have undergone no change, we have at the same time strictly maintained neutrality between the
belligerents.

At the request of the States of Costa Rica and Nicaragua, a competent engineer has been authorized
to make a survey of the river San Juan and the port of San Juan. It is a source of much satisfaction
that the difficulties which for a moment excited some political apprehensions and caused a
closing of the interoceanic transit route have been amicably adjusted, and that there is a
good prospect that the route will soon be reopened with an increase of capacity and adaptation.
We could not exaggerate either the commercial or the political importance of that great improvement.

It would be doing injustice to an important South American State not to acknowledge the directness,
frankness, and cordiality with which the United States of Colombia have entered into intimate
relations with this Government. A claims convention has been constituted to complete the unfinished
work of the one which closed its session in 1861.

The new liberal constitution of Venezuela having gone into effect with the universal acquiescence
of the people, the Government under it has been recognized and diplomatic intercourse with
it has opened in a cordial and friendly spirit. The long-deferred Aves Island claim has been
satisfactorily paid and discharged.

Mutual payments have been made of the claims awarded by the late joint commission for the settlement
of claims between the United States and Peru. An earnest and cordial friendship continues to
exist between the two countries, and such efforts as were in my power have been used to remove
misunderstanding and avert a threatened war between Peru and Spain.

Our relations are of the most friendly nature with Chile, the Argentine Republic, Bolivia,
Costa Rica, Paraguay, San Salvador, and Hayti. During the past year no differences of any kind
have arisen with any of those Republics, and, on the other hand, their sympathies with the
United States are constantly expressed with cordiality and earnestness.

The claim arising from the seizure of the cargo of the brig Macedonian in 1821 has been paid
in full by the Government of Chile. Civil war continues in the Spanish part of San Domingo,
apparently without prospect of an early close.

Official correspondence has been freely opened with Liberia, and it gives us a pleasing view
of social and political progress in that Republic. It may be expected to derive new vigor from
American influence, improved by the rapid disappearance of slavery in the United States.

I solicit your authority to furnish to the Republic a gunboat at moderate cost, to be reimbursed
to the United States by installments. Such a vessel is needed for the safety of that State
against the native African races, and in Liberian hands it would be more effective in arresting
the African slave trade than a squadron in our own hands. The possession of the least organized
naval force would stimulate a generous ambition in the Republic, and the confidence which we
should manifest by furnishing it would win forbearance and favor toward the colony from all
civilized nations.

The proposed overland telegraph between America and Europe, by the way of Behrings Straits
and Asiatic Russia, which was sanctioned by Congress at the last session, has been undertaken,
under very favorable circumstances, by an association of American citizens, with the cordial
good will and support as well of this Government as of those of Great Britain and Russia. Assurances
have been received from most of the South American States of their high appreciation of the
enterprise and their readiness to cooperate in constructing lines tributary to that world-encircling
communication. I learn with much satisfaction that the noble design of a telegraphic communication
between the eastern coast of America and Great Britain has been renewed, with full expectation
of its early accomplishment.

Thus it is hoped that with the return of domestic peace the country will be able to resume
with energy and advantage its former high career of commerce and civilization.

Our very popular and estimable representative in Egypt died in April last. An unpleasant altercation
which arose between the temporary incumbent of the office and the Government of the Pasha resulted
in a suspension of intercourse. The evil was promptly corrected on the arrival of the successor
in the consulate, and our relations with Egypt, as well as our relations with the Barbary Powers,
are entirely satisfactory.

The rebellion which has so long been flagrant in China has at last been suppressed, with the
cooperating good offices of this Government and of the other Western commercial States. The
judicial consular establishment there has become very difficult and onerous, and it will need
legislative revision to adapt it to the extension of our commerce and to the more intimate
intercourse which has been instituted with the Government and people of that vast Empire. China
seems to be accepting with hearty good will the conventional laws which regulate commercial
and social intercourse among the Western nations.

Owing to the peculiar situation of Japan and the anomalous form of its Government, the action
of that Empire in performing treaty stipulations is inconstant and capricious. Nevertheless,
good progress has been effected by the Western powers, moving with enlightened concert. Our
own pecuniary claims have been allowed or put in course of settlement, and the inland sea has
been reopened to commerce. There is reason also to believe that these proceedings have increased
rather than diminished the friendship of Japan toward the United States.

The ports of Norfolk, Fernandina, and Pensacola have been opened by proclamation. It is hoped
that foreign merchants will now consider whether it is not safer and more profitable to themselves,
as well as just to the United States, to resort to these and other open ports than it is to
pursue, through many hazards and at vast cost, a contraband trade with other ports which are
closed, if not by actual military occupation, at least by a lawful and effective blockade.

For myself, I have no doubt of the power and duty of the Executive, under the law of nations,
to exclude enemies of the human race from an asylum in the United States. If Congress should
think that proceedings in such cases lack the authority of law, or ought to be further regulated
by it, I recommend that provision be made for effectually preventing foreign slave traders
from acquiring domicile and facilities for their criminal occupation in our country.

It is possible that if it were new and open question the maritime powers, with the lights they
now enjoy, would not concede the privileges of a naval belligerent to the insurgents of the
United States, destitute, as they are, and always have been, equally of ships of war and of
ports and harbors. Disloyal emissaries have been neither less assiduous nor more successful
during the last year than they were before that time in their efforts under favor of that privilege,
to embroil our country in foreign wars. The desire and determination of the governments of
the maritime states to defeat that design are believed to be as sincere as and can not be more
earnest than our own. Nevertheless, unforeseen political difficulties have arisen, especially
in Brazilian and British ports and on the northern boundary of the United States, which have
required, and are likely to continue to require, the practice of constant vigilance and a just
and conciliatory spirit on the part of the United States, as well as of the nations concerned
and their governments.

Commissioners have been appointed under the treaty with Great Britain on the adjustment of
the claims of the Hudsons Bay and Pugets Sound Agricultural Companies, in Oregon, and are now
proceeding to the execution of the trust assigned to them.

In view of the insecurity of life and property in the region adjacent to the Canadian border,
by reason of recent assaults and depredations committed by inimical and desperate persons who
are harbored there, it has been thought proper to give notice that after the expiration of
six months, the period conditionally stipulated in the existing arrangement with Great Britain,
the United States must hold themselves at liberty to increase their naval armament upon the
Lakes if they shall find that proceeding necessary. The condition of the border will necessarily
come into consideration in connection with the question of continuing or modifying the rights
of transit from Canada through the United States, as well as the regulation of imposts, which
were temporarily established by the reciprocity treaty of the 5th June, 1854.

I desire, however, to be understood while making this statement that the colonial authorities
of Canada are not deemed to be intentionally unjust or unfriendly toward the United States,
but, on the contrary, there is every reason to expect that, with the approval of the Imperial
Government, they will take the necessary measures to prevent new incursions across the border.

The act passed at the last session for the encouragement of immigration has so far as was possible
been put into operation. It seems to need amendment which will enable the officers of the Government
to prevent the practice of frauds against the immigrants while on their way and on their arrival
in the ports, so as to secure them here a free choice of avocations and places of settlement.
A liberal disposition toward this great national policy is manifested by most of the European
States, and ought to be reciprocated on our part by giving the immigrants effective national
protection. I regard our immigrants as one of the principal replenishing streams which are
appointed by Providence to repair the ravages of internal war and its wastes of national strength
and health. All that is necessary is to secure the flow of that stream in its present fullness,
and to that end the Government must in every way make it manifest that it neither needs nor
designs to impose involuntary military service upon those who come from other lands to cast
their lot in our country.

The financial affairs of the Government have been successfully administered during the last
year. The legislation of the last session of Congress has beneficially affected the revenues,
although sufficient time has not yet elapsed to experience the full effect of several of the
provisions of the acts of Congress imposing increased taxation.

The receipts during the year from all sources, upon the basis of warrants signed by the Secretary
of the Treasury, including loans and the balance in the Treasury on the 1st day of July, 1863,
were $1,394,796,007.62, and the aggregate disbursements, upon the same basis, were $1,298,056,101.89,
leaving a balance in the Treasury, as shown by warrants, of $96,739,905.73.

Deduct from these amounts the amount of the principal of the public debt redeemed and the amount
of issues in substitution therefor, and the actual cash operations of the Treasury were: Receipts,
$884,076,646.57; disbursements, $865,234,087.86; which leaves a cash balance in the Treasury
of $18,842,558.71.

Of the receipts there were derived from customs $102,316,152.99, from lands $588,333.29. from
direct taxes $475,648.96, from internal revenue $109,741,134.10, from miscellaneous sources
$47,511,448.10, and from loans applied to actual expenditures, including former balance, $623,443,929.13.
I concur with him in the opinion that the proportion of moneys required to meet the expenses
consequent upon the war derived from taxation should be still further increased; and I earnestly
invite your attention to this subject, to the end that there may be such additional legislation
as shall be required to meet the just expectations of the Secretary.

The public debt on the 1st day of July last, as appears by the books of the Treasury, amounted
to $1,740,690,489.49. Probably, should the war continue for another year, that amount may be
increased by not far from five hundred millions. Held, as it is, for the most part by our own
people, it has become a substantial branch of national, though private, property. For obvious
reasons the more nearly this property can be distributed among all the people the better. To
favor such general distribution, greater inducements to become owners might, perhaps, with
good effect and without injury be presented to persons of limited means. With this view I suggest
whether it might not be both competent and expedient for Congress to provide that a limited
amount of some future issue of public securities might be held by any bona fide purchaser exempt
from taxation and from seizure for debt, under such restrictions and limitations as might be
necessary to guard against abuse of so important a privilege. This would enable every prudent
person to set aside a small annuity against a possible day of want.

Privileges like these would render the possession of such securities to the amount limited
most desirable to every person of small means who might be able to save enough for the purpose.
The great advantage of citizens being creditors as well as debtors with relation to the public
debt is obvious. Men readily perceive that they can not be much oppressed by a debt which they
owe to themselves.

The public debt on the 1st day of July last, although somewhat exceeding the estimate of the
Secretary of the Treasury made to Congress at the commencement of the last session, falls short
of the estimate of that officer made in the preceding December as to its probable amount at
the beginning of this year by the sum of $3,995,097.31. This fact exhibits a satisfactory condition
and conduct of the operations of the Treasury.

The national banking system is proving to be acceptable to capitalists and to the people. On
the 25th day of November 584 national banks had been organized, a considerable number of which
were conversions from State banks. Changes from State systems to the national system are rapidly
taking place, and it is hoped that very soon there will be in the United States no banks of
issue not authorized by Congress and no bank-note circulation not secured by the Government.
That the Government and the people will derive great benefit from this change in the banking
systems of the country can hardly be questioned. The national system will create a reliable
and permanent influence in support of the national credit and protect the people against losses
in the use of paper money. Whether or not any further legislation is advisable for the suppression
of State-bank issues it will be for Congress to determine. It seems quite clear that the Treasury
can not be satisfactorily conducted unless the Government can exercise a restraining power
over the bank-note circulation of the country. The report of the Secretary of War and the accompanying
documents will detail the campaigns of the armies in the field since the date of the last annual
message, and also the operations of the several administrative bureaus of the War Department
during the last year. It will also specify the measures deemed essential for the national defense
and to keep up and supply the requisite military force.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy presents a comprehensive and satisfactory exhibit of
the affairs of that Department and of the naval service. It is a subject of congratulation
and laudable pride to our countrymen that a Navy of such vast proportions has been organized
in so brief a period and conducted with so much efficiency and success.

The general exhibit of the Navy, including vessels under construction on the 1st of December,
1864, shows a total of 671 vessels, carrying 4,610 guns, and of 510,396 tons, being an actual
increase during the year, over and above all losses by shipwreck or in battle, of 83 vessels,
167 guns, and 42,427 tons.

The total number of men at this time in the naval service, including officers, is about 51,000.

There have been captured by the Navy during the year 324 vessels, and the whole number of naval
captures since hostilities commenced is 1,379, of which 267 are steamers.

The gross proceeds arising from the sale of condemned prize property thus far reported amount
to $14,396,250.51. A large amount of such proceeds is still under adjudication and yet to be
reported.

The total expenditure of the Navy Department of every description, including the cost of the
immense squadrons that have been called into existence from the 4th of March, 1861, to the
1st of November, 1864, is $238,647,262.35.

Your favorable consideration is invited to the various recommendations of the Secretary of
the Navy, especially in regard to a navy-yard and suitable establishment for the construction
and repair of iron vessels and the machinery and armature for our ships, to which reference
was made in my last annual message.

Your attention is also invited to the views expressed in the report in relation to the legislation
of Congress at its last session in respect to prize on our inland waters.

I cordially concur in the recommendation of the Secretary as to the propriety of creating the
new rank of vice-admiral in our naval service. Your attention is invited to the report of the
Postmaster-General for a detailed account of the operations and financial condition of the
Post-Office Department.

The postal revenues for the year ending June 30, 1864, amounted to $12,438,253.78 and the expenditures
to $12,644,786.20, the excess of expenditures over receipts being $206,652.42.

The views presented by the Postmaster-General on the subject of special grants by the Government
in aid of the establishment of new lines of ocean mail steamships and the policy he recommends
for the development of increased commercial intercourse with adjacent and neighboring countries
should receive the careful consideration of Congress.

It is of noteworthy interest that the steady expansion of population, improvement, and governmental
institutions over the new and unoccupied portions of our country have scarcely been checked,
much less impeded or destroyed, by our great civil war, which at first glance would seem to
have absorbed almost the entire energies of the nation.

The organization and admission of the State of Nevada has been completed in conformity with
law, and thus our excellent system is firmly established in the mountains, which once seemed
a barren and uninhabitable waste between the Atlantic States and those which have grown up
on the coast of the Pacific Ocean.

The Territories of the Union are generally in a condition of prosperity and rapid growth. Idaho
and Montana, by reason of their great distance and the interruption of communication with them
by Indian hostilities, have been only partially organized; but it is understood that these
difficulties are about to disappear, which will permit their governments, like those of the
others, to go into speedy and full operation. As intimately connected with and promotive of
this material growth of the nation, I ask the attention of Congress to the valuable information
and important recommendations relating to the public lands, Indian affairs, the Pacific Railroad,
and mineral discoveries contained in the report of the Secretary of the Interior which is herewith
transmitted, and which report also embraces the subjects of patents, pensions, and other topics
of public interest pertaining to his Department.

The quantity of public land disposed of during the five quarters ending on the 30th of September
last was 4,221,342 acres, of which 1,538,614 acres were entered under the homestead law. The
remainder was located with military land warrants, agricultural scrip certified to States for
railroads, and sold for cash. The cash received from sales and location fees was $1,019,446.

The income from sales during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1864, was $678,007.21, against
$136,077.95 received during the preceding year. The aggregate number of acres surveyed during
the year has been equal to the quantity disposed of, and there is open to settlement about
133,000,000 acres of surveyed land.

The great enterprise of connecting the Atlantic with the Pacific States by railways and telegraph
lines has been entered upon with a vigor that gives assurance of success, notwithstanding the
embarrassments arising from the prevailing high prices of materials and labor. The route of
the main line of the road has been definitely located for 100 miles westward from the initial
point at Omaha City, Nebr., and a preliminary location of the Pacific Railroad of California
has been made from Sacramento eastward to the great bend of the Truckee River in Nevada. Numerous
discoveries of gold, silver, and cinnabar mines have been added to the many heretofore known,
and the country occupied by the Sierra Nevada and Rocky mountains and the subordinate ranges
now teems with enterprising labor, which is richly remunerative. It is believed that the product
of the mines of precious metals in that region has during the year reached, if not exceeded,
one hundred millions in value.

It was recommended in my last annual message that our Indian system be remodeled. Congress
at its last session, acting upon the recommendation, did provide for reorganizing the system
in California, and it is believed that under the present organization the management of the
Indians there will be attended with reasonable success. Much yet remains to be done to provide
for the proper government of the Indians in other parts of the country, to render it secure
for the advancing set-tier, and to provide for the welfare of the Indian. The Secretary reiterates
his recommendations, and to them the attention of Congress is invited.

The liberal provisions made by Congress for paying pensions to invalid soldiers and sailors
of the Republic and to the widows, orphans, and dependent mothers of those who have fallen
in battle or died of disease contracted or of wounds received in the service of their country
have been diligently administered. There have been added to the pension rolls during the year
ending the 30th day of June last the names of 16,770 invalid soldiers and of 271 disabled seamen,
making the present number of army invalid pensioners 22,767 and of navy invalid pensioners 712.

Of widows, orphans, and mothers 22,198 have been placed on the army pension rolls and 248 on
the navy rolls. The present number of army pensioners of this class is 25,433 and of navy pensioners
793. At the beginning of the year the number of Revolutionary pensioners was 1,430. Only 12
of them were soldiers, of whom 7 have since died. The remainder are those who under the law
receive pensions because of relationship to Revolutionary soldiers. During the year ending
the 30th of June, 1864, $4,504,616.92 have been paid to pensioners of all classes.

I cheerfully commend to your continued patronage the benevolent institutions of the District
of Columbia which have hitherto been established or fostered by Congress, and respectfully
refer for information concerning them and in relation to the Washington Aqueduct, the Capitol,
and other matters of local interest to the report of the Secretary.

The Agricultural Department, under the supervision of its present energetic and faithful head,
is rapidly commending itself to the great and vital interest it was created to advance It is
peculiarly the people's Department, in which they feel more directly concerned than in any
other. I commend it to the continued attention and fostering care of Congress.

The war continues. Since the last annual message all the important lines and positions then
occupied by our forces have been maintained and our arms have steadily advanced, thus liberating
the regions left in rear, so that Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, and parts of other States
have again produced reasonably fair crops.

The most remarkable feature in the military operations of the year is General Sherman's attempted
march of 300 miles directly through the insurgent region. It tends to show a great increase
of our relative strength that our General in Chief should feel able to confront and hold in
check every active force of the enemy, and yet to detach a well-appointed large army to move
on such an expedition. The result not yet being known, conjecture in regard to it is not here
indulged.

Important movements have also occurred during the year to the effect of molding society for
durability in the Union. Although short of complete success, it is much in the fight direction
that 12,000 citizens in each of the States of Arkansas and Louisiana have organized loyal State
governments, with free constitutions, and are earnestly struggling to maintain and administer
them. The movements in the same direction, more extensive though less definite, in Missouri,
Kentucky, and Tennessee should not be overlooked. But Maryland presents the example of complete
success. Maryland is secure to liberty and union for all the future. The genius of rebellion
will no more claim Maryland. Like another foul spirit being driven out, it may seek to tear
her, but it will woo her no-more.

At the last session of Congress a proposed amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery
throughout the United States passed the Senate, but failed for lack of the requisite two-thirds
vote in the House of Representatives. Although the present is the same Congress and nearly
the same members, and without questioning the wisdom or patriotism of those who stood in opposition,
I venture to recommend the reconsideration and passage of the measure at the present session.
Of course the abstract question is not changed; but in intervening election shows almost certainly
that the next Congress will pass the measure if this does not. Hence there is only a question
of time as to when the proposed amendment will go to the States for their action. And as it
is to so go at all events, may we not agree that the sooner the better? It is not claimed that
the election has imposed a duty on members to change their views or their votes any further
than, as an additional element to be considered, their judgment may be affected by it. It is
the voice of the people now for the first time heard upon the question. In a great national
crisis like ours unanimity of action among those seeking a common end is very desirable--almost
indispensable. And yet no approach to such unanimity is attainable unless some deference shall
be paid to the will of the majority simply because it is the will of the majority. In this
case the common end is the maintenance of the Union, and among the means to secure that end
such will, through the election, is most dearly declared in favor of such constitutional amendment.

The most reliable indication of public purpose in this country is derived through our popular
elections. Judging by the recent canvass and its result, the purpose of the people within the
loyal States to maintain the integrity of the Union was never more firm nor more nearly unanimous
than now. The extraordinary calmness and good order with which the millions of voters met and
mingled at the polls give strong assurance of this. Not only all those who supported the Union
ticket, so called, but a great majority of the opposing party also may be fairly claimed to
entertain and to be actuated by the same purpose. It is an unanswerable argument to this effect
that no candidate for any office whatever, high or low, has ventured to seek votes on the avowal
that he was for giving up the Union. There have been much impugning of motives and much heated
controversy as to the proper means and best mode of advancing the Union cause, but on the distinct
issue of Union or no Union the politicians have shown their instinctive knowledge that there
is no diversity among the people. In affording the people the fair opportunity of showing one
to another and to the world this firmness and unanimity of purpose, the election has been of
vast value to the national cause.

The election has exhibited another tact not less valuable to be known--the fact that we do
not approach exhaustion in the most important branch of national resources, that of living
men. While it is melancholy to reflect that the war has filled so many graves and carried mourning
to so many hearts, it is some relief to know that, compared with the surviving, the fallen
have been so few. While corps and divisions and brigades and regiments have formed and fought
and dwindled and gone out of existence, a great majority of the men who composed them are still
living. The same is true of the naval service. The election returns prove this. So many voters
could not else be found. The States regularly holding elections, both now and four years ago,
to wit, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wisconsin, east 3,982,011 votes now,
against 3,870,222 cast then, showing an aggregate now of 3,982,011. To this is to be added
33,762 cast now in the new States of Kansas and Nevada, which States did not vote in 1860,
thus swelling the aggregate to 4,015,773 and the net increase during the three years and a
half of war to 145,551. A table is appended showing particulars. To this again should be added
the number of all soldiers in the field from Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware,
Indiana, Illinois, and California, who by the laws of those States could not vote away from
their homes, and which number can not be less than 90,000. Nor yet is this all. The number
in organized Territories is triple now what it was four years ago, while thousands, white and
black, join us as the national arms press back the insurgent lines. So much is shown, affirmatively
and negatively, by the election. It is not material to inquire how the increase has been produced
or to show that it would have been greater but for the war, which is probably true. The important
fact remains demonstrated that we have more men now than we had when the war began; that we
are not exhausted nor in process of exhaustion; that we are gaining strength and may if need
be maintain the contest indefinitely. This as to men. Material resources are now more complete
and abundant than ever.

The national resources, then, are unexhausted, and, as we believe, inexhaustible. The public
purpose to reestablish and maintain the national authority is unchanged, and, as we believe,
unchangeable. The manner of continuing the effort remains to choose. On careful consideration
of all the evidence accessible it seems to me that no attempt at negotiation with the insurgent
leader could result in any good. He would accept nothing short of severance of the Union, precisely
what we will not and can not give. His declarations to this effect are explicit and oft repeated.
He does not attempt to deceive us. He affords us no excuse to deceive ourselves. He can not
voluntarily reaccept the Union; we can not voluntarily yield it. Between him and us the issue
is distinct, simple, and inflexible. It is an issue which can only be tried by war and decided
by victory. If we yield, we are beaten; if the Southern people fail him, he is beaten. Either
way it would be the victory and defeat following war. What is true, however, of him who heads
the insurgent cause is not necessarily true of those who follow. Although he can not reaccept
the Union, they can. Some of them, we know, already desire peace and reunion. The number of
such may increase. They can at any moment have peace simply by laying down their arms and submitting
to the national authority under the Constitution. Alter so much the Government could not, if
it would, maintain war against them. The loyal people would not sustain or allow it. If questions
should remain, we would adjust them by the peaceful means of legislation, conference, courts,
and votes, operating only in constitutional and lawful channels. Some certain, and other possible,
questions are and would be beyond the Executive power to adjust; as, for instance, the admission
of members into Congress and whatever might require the appropriation of money. The Executive
power itself would be greatly diminished by the cessation of actual war. Pardons and remissions
of forfeitures, however, would still be within Executive control. In what spirit and temper
this control would be exercised can be fairly judged of by the past.

A year ago general pardon and amnesty, upon specified terms, were offered to all except certain
designated classes, and it was at the same time made known that the excepted classes were still
within contemplation of special clemency. During the year many availed themselves of the general
provision, and many more would, only that the signs of bad faith in some led to such precautionary
measures as rendered the practical process less easy and certain. During the same time also
special pardons have been granted to individuals of the excepted classes, and no voluntary
application has been denied. Thus practically the door has been for a full year open to all
except such as were not in condition to make free choice; that is, such as were in custody
or under constraint. It is still so open to all. But the time may come, probably will come,
when public duty shall demand that it be closed and that in lieu more rigorous measures than
heretofore shall be adopted. In presenting the abandonment of armed resistance to the national
authority on the part of the insurgents as the only indispensable condition to ending the war
on the part of the Government, I retract nothing heretofore said as to slavery. If the people
should, by whatever mode or means, make it an Executive duty to re-enslave such persons, another,
and not I, must be their instrument to perform it. In stating a single condition of peace I
mean simply to say that the war will cease on the part of the Government whenever it shall
have ceased on the part of those who began it.

State - 1860 - 1864

California - 118,840 - 110,000

Connecticut - 77,246 - 86,616

Delaware - 16,039 - 16,924

Illinois - 339,693 - 348,235

Indiana - 272,143 - 280,645

Iowa - 128,331 - 143,331

Kentucky - 146,216 - 91,300

Maine - 97,918 - 115,141

Maryland - 92,502 - 72,703

Massachusetts - 169,533 - 175,487

Michigan - 154,747 - 162,413

Minnesota - 34,799 - 42,534

Missouri - 165,538 - 90,000

New Hampshire - 65,953 - 69,111

New Jersey - 121,125 - 128,680

New York - 675,156 - 730,664

Ohio - 42,441 - 470,745

Oregon - 14,410 - 14,410+

Pennsylvania - 476,442 - 572,697

Rhode Island - 19,931 - 22,187

Vermont - 42,844 - 55,811

West Virginia - 46,195 - 33,874

Wisconsin - 152,180 - 148,513 -

***

State of the Union Address Andrew Johnson December 4, 1865

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

To express gratitude to God in the name of the people for the preservation of the United States
is my first duty in addressing you. Our thoughts next revert to the death of the late President
by an act of parricidal treason. The grief of the nation is still fresh. It finds some solace
in the consideration that he lived to enjoy the highest proof of its confidence by entering
on the renewed term of the Chief Magistracy to which he had been elected; that he brought the
civil war substantially to a close; that his loss was deplored in all parts of the Union, and
that foreign nations have rendered justice to his memory. His removal cast upon me a heavier
weight of cares than ever devolved upon any one of his predecessors. To fulfill my trust I
need the support and confidence of all who are associated with me in the various departments
of Government and the support and confidence of the people. There is but one way in which I
can hope to gain their necessary aid. It is to state with frankness the principles which guide
my conduct, and their application to the present state of affairs, well aware that the efficiency
of my labors will in a great measure depend on your and their undivided approbation.

The Union of the United States of America was intended by its authors to last as long as the
States themselves shall last. "The Union shall be perpetual" are the words of the Confederation.
"To form a more perfect Union," by an ordinance of the people of the United States, is the
declared purpose of the Constitution. The hand of Divine Providence was never more plainly
visible in the affairs of men than in the framing and the adopting of that instrument. It is
beyond comparison the greatest event in American history, and, indeed, is it not of all events
in modern times the most pregnant with consequences for every people of the earth? The members
of the Convention which prepared it brought to their work the experience of the Confederation,
of their several States, and of other republican governments, old and new; but they needed
and they obtained a wisdom superior to experience. And when for its validity it required the
approval of a people that occupied a large part of a continent and acted separately in many
distinct conventions, what is more wonderful than that, after earnest contention and long discussion,
all feelings and all opinions were ultimately drawn in one way to its support? The Constitution
to which life was thus imparted contains within itself ample resources for its own preservation.
It has power to enforce the laws, punish treason, and insure domestic tranquillity. In case
of the usurpation of the government of a State by one man or an oligarchy, it becomes a duty
of the United States to make good the guaranty to that State of a republican form of government,
and so to maintain the homogeneousness of all. Does the lapse of time reveal defects? A simple
mode of amendment is provided in the Constitution itself, so that its conditions can always
be made to conform to the requirements of advancing civilization. No room is allowed even for
the thought of a possibility of its coming to an end. And these powers of self-preservation
have always been asserted in their complete integrity by every patriotic Chief Magistrate by
Jefferson and Jackson not less than by Washington and Madison. The parting advice of the Father
of his Country, while yet President, to the people of the United States was that the free Constitution,
which was the work of their hands, might be sacredly maintained; and the inaugural words of
President Jefferson held up "the preservation of the General Government in its whole constitutional
vigor as the sheet anchor of our peace at home and safety abroad." The Constitution is the
work of "the people of the United States," and it should be as indestructible as the people.

It is not strange that the framers of the Constitution, which had no model in the past, should
not have fully comprehended the excellence of their own work. Fresh from a struggle against
arbitrary power, many patriots suffered from harassing fears of an absorption of the State
governments by the General Government, and many from a dread that the States would break away
from their orbits. But the very greatness of our country should allay the apprehension of encroachments
by the General Government. The subjects that come unquestionably within its jurisdiction are
so numerous that it must ever naturally refuse to be embarrassed by questions that lie beyond
it. Were it otherwise the Executive would sink beneath the burden, the channels of justice
would be choked, legislation would be obstructed by excess, so that there is a greater temptation
to exercise some of the functions of the General Government through the States than to trespass
on their rightful sphere. The "absolute acquiescence in the decisions of the majority" was
at the beginning of the century enforced by Jefferson as "the vital principle of republics;"
and the events of the last four years have established, we will hope forever, that there lies
no appeal to force.

The maintenance of the Union brings with it "the support of the State governments in all their
rights," but it is not one of the rights of any State government to renounce its own place
in the Union or to nullify the laws of the Union. The largest liberty is to be maintained in
the discussion of the acts of the Federal Government, but there is no appeal from its laws
except to the various branches of that Government itself, or to the people, who grant to the
members of the legislative and of the executive departments no tenure but a limited one, and
in that manner always retain the powers of redress.

"The sovereignty of the States" is the language of the Confederacy, and not the language of
the Constitution. Certainly the Government of the United States is a limited government, and
so is every State government a limited government. With us this idea of limitation spreads
through every form of administration--general, State, and municipal--and rests on the great
distinguishing principle of the recognition of the rights of man. The ancient republics absorbed
the individual in the state--prescribed his religion and controlled his activity. The American
system rests on the assertion of the equal right of every man to life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness, to freedom of conscience, to the culture and exercise of all his faculties. As
a consequence the State government is limited--as to the General Government in the interest
of union, as to the individual citizen in the interest of freedom.

States, with proper limitations of power, are essential to the existence of the Constitution
of the United States. At the very commencement, when we assumed a place among the powers of
the earth, the Declaration of Independence was adopted by States; so also were the Articles
of Confederation: and when "the people of the United States" ordained and established the Constitution
it was the assent of the States, one by one, which gave it vitality. In the event, too, of
any amendment to the Constitution, the proposition of Congress needs the confirmation of States.
Without States one great branch of the legislative government would be wanting. And if we look
beyond the letter of the Constitution to the character of our country, its capacity for comprehending
within its jurisdiction a vast continental empire is due to the system of States. The best
security for the perpetual existence of the States is the "supreme authority" of the Constitution
of the United States. The perpetuity of the Constitution brings with it the perpetuity of the
States; their mutual relation makes us what we are, and in our political system their connection
is indissoluble. The whole can not exist without the parts, nor the parts without the whole.
So long as the Constitution of the United States endures, the States will endure. The destruction
of the one is the destruction of the other; the preservation of the one is the preservation
of the other.

I have thus explained my views of the mutual relations of the Constitution and the States,
because they unfold the principles on which I have sought to solve the momentous questions
and overcome the appalling difficulties that met me at the very commencement of my Administration.
It has been my steadfast object to escape from the sway of momentary passions and to derive
a healing policy from the fundamental and unchanging principles of the Constitution.

I found the States suffering from the effects of a civil war. Resistance to the General Government
appeared to have exhausted itself. The United States had recovered possession of their forts
and arsenals, and their armies were in the occupation of every State which had attempted to
secede. Whether the territory within the limits of those States should be held as conquered
territory, under military authority emanating from the President as the head of the Army, was
the first question that presented itself for decision.

Now military governments, established for an indefinite period, would have offered no security
for the early suppression of discontent, would have divided the people into the vanquishers
and the vanquished, and would have envenomed hatred rather than have restored affection. Once
established, no precise limit to their continuance was conceivable. They would have occasioned
an incalculable and exhausting expense. Peaceful emigration to and from that portion of the
country is one of the best means that can be thought of for the restoration of harmony, and
that emigration would have been prevented; for what emigrant from abroad, what industrious
citizen at home, would place himself willingly under military rule? The chief persons who would
have followed in the train of the Army would have been dependents on the General Government
or men who expected profit from the miseries of their erring fellow-citizens. The powers of
patronage and rule which would have been exercised under the President, over a vast and populous
and naturally wealthy region are greater than, unless under extreme necessity, I should be
willing to intrust to any one man. They are such as, for myself, I could never, unless on occasions
of great emergency, consent to exercise. The willful use of such powers, if continued through
a period of years, would have endangered the purity of the general administration and the liberties
of the States which remained loyal.

Besides, the policy of military rule over a conquered territory would have implied that the
States whose inhabitants may have taken part in the rebellion had by the act of those inhabitants
ceased to exist. But the true theory is that all pretended acts of secession were from the
beginning null and void. The States can not commit treason nor screen the individual citizens
who may have committed treason any more than they can make valid treaties or engage in lawful
commerce with any foreign power. The States attempting to secede placed themselves in a condition
where their vitality was impaired, but not extinguished; their functions suspended, but not
destroyed.

But if any State neglects or refuses to perform its offices there is the more need that the
General Government should maintain all its authority and as soon as practicable resume the
exercise of all its functions. On this principle I have acted, and have gradually and quietly,
and by almost imperceptible steps, sought to restore the rightful energy of the General Government
and of the States. To that end provisional governors have been appointed for the States, conventions
called, governors elected, legislatures assembled, and Senators and Representatives chosen
to the Congress of the United States. At the same time the courts of the United States, as
far as could be done, have been reopened, so that the laws of the United States may be enforced
through their agency. The blockade has been removed and the custom-houses reestablished in
ports of entry, so that the revenue of the United States may be collected. The Post-Office
Department renews its ceaseless activity, and the General Government is thereby enabled to
communicate promptly with its officers and agents. The courts bring security to persons and
property; the opening of the ports invites the restoration of industry and commerce; the post-office
renews the facilities of social intercourse and of business. And is it not happy for us all
that the restoration of each one of these functions of the General Government brings with it
a blessing to the States over which they are extended? Is it not a sure promise of harmony
and renewed attachment to the Union that after all that has happened the return of the General
Government is known only as a beneficence?

I know very well that this policy is attended with some risk; that for its success it requires
at least the acquiescence of the States which it concerns; that it implies an invitation to
those States, by renewing their allegiance to the United States, to resume their functions
as States of the Union. But it is a risk that must be taken. In the choice of difficulties
it is the smallest risk; and to diminish and if possible to remove all danger, I have felt
it incumbent on me to assert one other power of the General Government--the power of pardon.
As no State can throw a defense over the crime of treason, the power of pardon is exclusively
vested in the executive government of the United States. In exercising that power I have taken
every precaution to connect it with the clearest recognition of the binding force of the laws
of the United States and an unqualified acknowledgment of the great social change of condition
in regard to slavery which has grown out of the war.

The next step which I have taken to restore the constitutional relations of the States has
been an invitation to them to participate in the high office of amending the Constitution.
Every patriot must wish for a general amnesty at the earliest epoch consistent with public
safety. For this great end there is need of a concurrence of all opinions and the spirit of
mutual conciliation. All parties in the late terrible conflict must work together in harmony.
It is not too much to ask, in the name of the whole people, that on the one side the plan of
restoration shall proceed in conformity with a willingness to cast the disorders of the past
into oblivion, and that on the other the evidence of sincerity in the future maintenance of
the Union shall be put beyond any doubt by the ratification of the proposed amendment to the
Constitution, which provides for the abolition of slavery forever within the limits of our
country. So long as the adoption of this amendment is delayed, so long will doubt and jealousy
and uncertainty prevail. This is the measure which will efface the sad memory of the past;
this is the measure which will most certainly call population and capital and security to those
parts of the Union that need them most. Indeed, it is not too much to ask of the States which
are now resuming their places in the family of the Union to give this pledge of perpetual loyalty
and peace. Until it is done the past, however much we may desire it, will not be forgotten,
The adoption of the amendment reunites us beyond all power of disruption; it heals the wound
that is still imperfectly closed: it removes slavery, the element which has so long perplexed
and divided the country; it makes of us once more a united people, renewed and strengthened,
bound more than ever to mutual affection and support.

The amendment to the Constitution being adopted, it would remain for the States whose powers
have been so long in abeyance to resume their places in the two branches of the National Legislature,
and thereby complete the work of restoration. Here it is for you, fellow-citizens of the Senate,
and for you, fellow-citizens of the House of Representatives, to judge, each of you for yourselves,
of the elections, returns, and qualifications of your own members.

The full assertion of the powers of the General Government requires the holding of circuit
courts of the United States within the districts where their authority has been interrupted.
In the present posture of our public affairs strong objections have been urged to holding those
courts in any of the States where the rebellion has existed; and it was ascertained by inquiry,
that the circuit court of the United States would not be held within the district of Virginia
during the autumn or early winter, nor until Congress should have "an opportunity to consider
and act on the whole subject." To your deliberations the restoration of this branch of the
civil authority of the United States is therefore necessarily referred, with the hope that
early provision will be made for the resumption of all its functions. It is manifest that treason,
most flagrant in character, has been committed. Persons who are charged with its commission
should have fair and impartial trials in the highest civil tribunals of the country, in order
that the Constitution and the laws may be fully vindicated, the truth dearly established and
affirmed that treason is a crime, that traitors should be punished and the offense made infamous,
and, at the same time, that the question may be judicially settled, finally and forever, that
no State of its own will has the right to renounce its place in the Union.

The relations of the General Government toward the 4,000,000 inhabitants whom the war has called
into freedom have engaged my most serious consideration. On the propriety of attempting to
make the freedmen electors by the proclamation of the Executive I took for my counsel the Constitution
itself, the interpretations of that instrument by its authors and their contemporaries, and
recent legislation by Congress. When, at the first movement toward independence, the Congress
of the United States instructed the several States to institute governments of their own, they
left each State to decide for itself the conditions for the enjoyment of the elective franchise.
During the period of the Confederacy there continued to exist a very great diversity in the
qualifications of electors in the several States, and even within a State a distinction of
qualifications prevailed with regard to the officers who were to be chosen. The Constitution
of the United States recognizes these diversities when it enjoins that in the choice of members
of the House of Representatives of the United States "the electors in each State shall have
the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislature."
After the formation of the Constitution it remained, as before, the uniform usage for each
State to enlarge the body of its electors according to its own judgment, and under this system
one State after another has proceeded to increase the number of its electors, until now universal
suffrage, or something very near it, is the general rule. So fixed was this reservation of
power in the habits of the people and so unquestioned has been the interpretation of the Constitution
that during the civil war the late President never harbored the purpose--certainly never avowed
the purpose--of disregarding it; and in the acts of Congress during that period nothing can
be found which, during the continuance of hostilities much less after their close, would have
sanctioned any departure by the Executive from a policy which has so uniformly obtained. Moreover,
a concession of the elective franchise to the freedmen by act of the President of the United
States must have been extended to all colored men, wherever found, and so must have established
a change of suffrage in the Northern, Middle, and Western States, not less than in the Southern
and Southwestern. Such an act would have created a new class of voters, and would have been
an assumption of power by the President which nothing in the Constitution or laws of the United
States would have warranted.

On the other hand, every danger of conflict is avoided when the settlement of the question
is referred to the several States. They can, each for itself, decide on the measure, and whether
it is to be adopted at once and absolutely or introduced gradually and with conditions. In
my judgment the freedmen, if they show patience and manly virtues, will sooner obtain a participation
in the elective franchise through the States than through the General Government, even if it
had power to intervene. When the tumult of emotions that have been raised by the suddenness
of the social change shall have subsided, it may prove that they will receive the kindest usage
from some of those on whom they have heretofore most closely depended.

But while I have no doubt that now, after the close of the war, it is not competent for the
General Government to extend the elective franchise in the several States, it is equally clear
that good faith requires the security of the freedmen in their liberty and their property,
their right to labor, and their right to claim the just return of their labor. I can not too
strongly urge a dispassionate treatment of this subject, which should be carefully kept aloof
from all party strife. We must equally avoid hasty assumptions of any natural impossibility
for the two races to live side by side in a state of mutual benefit and good will. The experiment
involves us in no inconsistency; let us, then, go on and make that experiment in good faith,
and not be too easily disheartened. The country is in need of labor, and the freedmen are in
need of employment, culture, and protection. While their right of voluntary migration and expatriation
is not to be questioned, I would not advise their forced removal and colonization. Let us rather
encourage them to honorable and useful industry, where it may be beneficial to themselves and
to the country; and, instead of hasty anticipations of the certainty of failure, let there
be nothing wanting to the fair trial of the experiment. The change in their condition is the
substitution of labor by contract for the status of slavery. The freedman can not fairly be
accused of unwillingness to work so long as a doubt remains about his freedom of choice in
his pursuits and the certainty of his recovering his stipulated wages. In this the interests
of the employer and the employed coincide. The employer desires in his workmen spirit and alacrity,
and these can be permanently secured in no other way. And if the one ought to be able to enforce
the contract, so ought the other. The public interest will be best promoted if the several
States will provide adequate protection and remedies for the freedmen. Until this is in some
way accomplished there is no chance for the advantageous use of their labor, and the blame
of ill success will not rest on them.

I know that sincere philanthropy is earnest for the immediate realization of its remotest aims;
but time is always an element in reform. It is one of the greatest acts on record to have brought
4,000,000 people into freedom. The career of free industry must be fairly opened to them, and
then their future prosperity and condition must, after all, rest mainly on themselves. If they
fail, and so perish away, let us be careful that the failure shall not be attributable to any
denial of justice. In all that relates to the destiny of the freedmen we need not be too anxious
to read the future; many incidents which, from a speculative point of view, might raise alarm
will quietly settle themselves. Now that slavery is at an end, or near its end, the greatness
of its evil in the point of view of public economy becomes more and more apparent. Slavery
was essentially a monopoly of labor, and as such locked the States where it prevailed against
the incoming of free industry. Where labor was the property of the capitalist, the white man
was excluded from employment, or had but the second best chance of finding it; and the foreign
emigrant turned away from the region where his condition would be so precarious. With the destruction
of the monopoly free labor will hasten from all pans of the civilized world to assist in developing
various and immeasurable resources which have hitherto lain dormant. The eight or nine States
nearest the Gulf of Mexico have a soil of exuberant fertility, a climate friendly to long life,
and can sustain a denser population than is found as yet in any part of our country. And the
future influx of population to them will be mainly from the North or from the most cultivated
nations in Europe. From the sufferings that have attended them during our late struggle let
us look away to the future, which is sure to be laden for them with greater prosperity than
has ever before been known. The removal of the monopoly of slave labor is a pledge that those
regions will be peopled by a numerous and enterprising population, which will vie with any
in the Union in compactness, inventive genius, wealth, and industry.

Our Government springs from and was made for the people--not the people for the Government.
To them it owes allegiance; from them it must derive its courage, strength, and wisdom. But
while the Government is thus bound to defer to the people, from whom it derives its existence,
it should, from the very consideration of its origin, be strong in its power of resistance
to the establishment of inequalities. Monopolies, perpetuities, and class legislation are contrary
to the genius of free government, and ought not to be allowed. Here there is no room for favored
classes or monopolies; the principle of our Government is that of equal laws and freedom of
industry. Wherever monopoly attains a foothold, it is sure to be a source of danger, discord,
and trouble. We shall but fulfill our duties as legislators by according "equal and exact justice
to all men," special privileges to none. The Government is subordinate to the people; but,
as the agent and representative of the people, it must be held superior to monopolies, which
in themselves ought never to be granted, and which, where they exist, must be subordinate and
yield to the Government.

The Constitution confers on Congress the right to regulate commerce among the several States.
It is of the first necessity, for the maintenance of the Union, that that commerce should be
free and unobstructed. No State can be justified in any device to tax the transit of travel
and commerce between States. The position of many States is such that if they were allowed
to take advantage of it for purposes of local revenue the commerce between States might be
injuriously burdened, or even virtually prohibited. It is best, while the country is still
young and while the tendency to dangerous monopolies of this kind is still feeble, to use the
power of Congress so as to prevent any selfish impediment to the free circulation of men and
merchandise. A tax on travel and merchandise in their transit constitutes one of the worst
forms of monopoly, and the evil is increased if coupled with a denial of the choice of route.
When the vast extent of our country is considered, it is plain that every obstacle to the free
circulation of commerce between the States ought to be sternly guarded against by appropriate
legislation within the limits of the Constitution.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior explains the condition of the public lands, the
transactions of the Patent Office and the Pension Bureau, the management of our Indian affairs,
the progress made in the construction of the Pacific Railroad, and furnishes information in
reference to matters of local interest in the District of Columbia. It also presents evidence
of the successful operation of the homestead act, under the provisions of which 1,160,533 acres
of the public lands were entered during the last fiscal year--more than one-fourth of the whole
number of acres sold or otherwise disposed of during that period. It is estimated that the
receipts derived from this source are sufficient to cover the expenses incident to the survey
and disposal of the lands entered under this act, and that payments in cash to the extent of
from 40 to 50 per cent will be made by settlers who may thus at any time acquire title before
the expiration of the period at which it would otherwise vest. The homestead policy was established
only after long and earnest resistance; experience proves its wisdom. The lands in the hands
of industrious settlers, whose labor creates wealth and contributes to the public resources,
are worth more to the United States than if they had been reserved as a solitude for future
purchasers.

The lamentable events of the last four years and the sacrifices made by the gallant men of
our Army and Navy have swelled the records of the Pension Bureau to an unprecedented extent.
On the 30th day of June last the total number of pensioners was 85,986, requiring for their
annual pay, exclusive of expenses, the sum of $8,023,445. The number of applications that have
been allowed since that date will require a large increase of this amount for the next fiscal
year. The means for the payment of the stipends due under existing laws to our disabled soldiers
and sailors and to the families of such as have perished in the service of the country will
no doubt be cheerfully and promptly granted. A grateful people will not hesitate to sanction
any measures having for their object the relief of soldiers mutilated and families made fatherless
in the efforts to preserve our national existence.

The report of the Postmaster-General presents an encouraging exhibit of the operations of the
Post-Office Department during the year. The revenues of the past year, from the loyal States
alone, exceeded the maximum annual receipts from all the States previous to the rebellion in
the sum of $6,038,091; and the annual average increase of revenue during the last four years,
compared with the revenues of the four years immediately preceding the rebellion, was $3,533,845.
The revenues of the last fiscal year amounted to $14,556,158 and the expenditures to $13,694,728,
leaving a surplus of receipts over expenditures of $861,430. Progress has been made in restoring
the postal service in the Southern States. The views presented by the Postmaster-General against
the policy of granting subsidies to the ocean mail steamship lines upon established routes
and in favor of continuing the present system, which limits the compensation for ocean service
to the postage earnings, are recommended to the careful consideration of Congress.

It appears from the report of the Secretary of the Navy that while at the commencement of the
present year there were in commission 530 vessels of all classes and descriptions, armed with
3,000 guns and manned by 51,000 men, the number of vessels at present in commission is 117,
with 830 guns and 12,128 men. By this prompt reduction of the naval forces the expenses of
the Government have been largely diminished, and a number of vessels purchased for naval purposes
from the merchant marine have been returned to the peaceful pursuits of commerce. Since the
suppression of active hostilities our foreign squadrons have been reestablished, and consist
of vessels much more efficient than those employed on similar service previous to the rebellion.
The suggestion for the enlargement of the navy-yards, and especially for the establishment
of one in fresh water for ironclad vessels, is deserving of consideration, as is also the recommendation
for a different location and more ample grounds for the Naval Academy.

In the report of the Secretary of War a general summary is given of the military campaigns
of 1864 and 1865, ending in the suppression of armed resistance to the national authority in
the insurgent States. The operations of the general administrative bureaus of the War Department
during the past year are detailed and an estimate made of the appropriations that will be required
for military purposes in the fiscal year commencing the 1st day of July, 1866. The national
military force on the 1st of May, 1865, numbered 1,000,516 men. It is proposed to reduce the
military establishment to a peace footing, comprehending 50,000 troops of all arms, organized
so as to admit of an enlargement by filling up the ranks to 82,600 if the circumstances of
the country should require an augmentation of the Army. The volunteer force has already been
reduced by the discharge from service of over 800,000 troops, and the Department is proceeding
rapidly in the work of further reduction. The war estimates are reduced from $516,240,131 to
$33,814,461, which amount, in the opinion of the Department, is adequate for a peace establishment.
The measures of retrenchment in each bureau and branch of the service exhibit a diligent economy
worthy of commendation. Reference is also made in the report to the necessity of providing
for a uniform militia system and to the propriety of making suitable provision for wounded
and disabled officers and soldiers.

The revenue system of the country is a subject of vital interest to its honor and prosperity,
and should command the earnest consideration of Congress. The Secretary of the Treasury will
lay before you a full and detailed report of the receipts and disbursements of the last fiscal
year, of the first quarter of the present fiscal year, of the probable receipts and expenditures
for the other three quarters, and the estimates for the year following the 30th of June, 1866.
I might content myself with a reference to that report, in which you will find all the information
required for your deliberations and decision, but the paramount importance of the subject so
presses itself on my own mind that I can not but lay before you my views of the measures which
are required for the good character, and I might almost say for the existence, of this people.
The life of a republic lies certainly in the energy, virtue, and intelligence of its citizens;
but it is equally true that a good revenue system is the life of an organized government. I
meet you at a time when the nation has voluntarily burdened itself with a debt unprecedented
in our annals. Vast as is its amount, it fades away into nothing when compared with the countless
blessings that will be conferred upon our country and upon man by the preservation of the nation's
life. Now, on the first occasion of the meeting of Congress since the return of peace, it is
of the utmost importance to inaugurate a just policy, which shall at once be put in motion,
and which shall commend itself to those who come after us for its continuance. We must aim
at nothing less than the complete effacement of the financial evils that necessarily followed
a state of civil war. We must endeavor to apply the earliest remedy to the deranged state of
the currency, and not shrink from devising a policy which, with-out being oppressive to the
people, shall immediately begin to effect a reduction of the debt, and, if persisted in, discharge
it fully within a definitely fixed number of years.

It is our first duty to prepare in earnest for our recovery from the ever-increasing evils
of an irredeemable currency without a sudden revulsion, and yet without untimely procrastination.
For that end we must each, in our respective positions, prepare the way. I hold it the duty
of the Executive to insist upon frugality in the expenditures, and a sparing economy is itself
a great national resource. Of the banks to which authority has been given to issue notes secured
by bonds of the United States we may require the greatest moderation and prudence, and the
law must be rigidly enforced when its limits are exceeded. We may each one of us counsel our
active and enterprising countrymen to be constantly on their guard, to liquidate debts contracted
in a paper currency, and by conducting business as nearly as possible on a system of cash payments
or short credits to hold themselves prepared to return to the standard of gold and silver.
To aid our fellow-citizens in the prudent management of their monetary affairs, the duty devolves
on us to diminish by law the amount of paper money now in circulation. Five years ago the bank-note
circulation of the country amounted to not much more than two hundred millions; now the circulation,
bank and national, exceeds seven hundred millions. The simple statement of the fact recommends
more strongly than any words of mine could do the necessity of our restraining this expansion.
The gradual reduction of the currency is the only measure that can save the business of the
country from disastrous calamities, and this can be almost imperceptibly accomplished by gradually
funding the national circulation in securities that may be made redeemable at the pleasure
of the Government.

Our debt is doubly secure--first in the actual wealth and still greater undeveloped resources
of the country, and next in the character of our institutions. The most intelligent observers
among political economists have not failed to remark that the public debt of a country is safe
in proportion as its people are free; that the debt of a republic is the safest of all. Our
history confirms and establishes the theory, and is, I firmly believe, destined to give it
a still more signal illustration. The secret of this superiority springs not merely from the
fact that in a republic the national obligations are distributed more widely through countless
numbers in all classes of society; it has its root in the character of our laws. Here all men
contribute to the public welfare and bear their fair share of the public burdens. During the
war, under the impulses of patriotism, the men of the great body of the people, without regard
to their own comparative want of wealth, thronged to our armies and filled our fleets of war,
and held themselves ready to offer their lives for the public good. Now, in their turn, the
property and income of the country should bear their just proportion of the burden of taxation,
while in our impost system, through means of which increased vitality is incidentally imparted
to all the industrial interests of the nation, the duties should be so adjusted as to fall
most heavily on articles of luxury leaving the necessaries of life as free from taxation as
the absolute wants of the Government economically administered will justify. No favored class
should demand freedom from assessment, and the taxes should be so distributed as not to fall
unduly on the poor, but rather on the accumulated wealth of the country. We should look at
the national debt just as it is--not as a national blessing, but as a heavy burden on the industry
of the country, to be discharged without unnecessary delay.

It is estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury that the expenditures for the fiscal year
ending the 30th of June, 1866, will exceed the receipts $112,194,947. It is gratifying, however,
to state that it is also estimated that the revenue for the year ending the 30th of June, 1867,
will exceed the expenditures in the sum of $111,682,818. This amount, or so much as may be
deemed sufficient for the purpose, may be applied to the reduction of the public debt, which
on the 31st day of October, 1865, was $2,740,854,750. Every reduction will diminish the total
amount of interest to be paid, and so enlarge the means of still further reductions, until
the whole shall be liquidated; and this, as will be seen from the estimates of the Secretary
of the Treasury, may be accomplished by annual payments even within a period not exceeding
thirty years. I have faith that we shall do all this within a reasonable time; that as we have
amazed the world by the suppression of a civil war which was thought to be beyond the control
of any government, so we shall equally show the superiority of our institutions by the prompt
and faithful discharge of our national obligations.

The Department of Agriculture under its present direction is accomplishing much in developing
and utilizing the vast agricultural capabilities of the country, and for information respecting
the details of its management reference is made to the annual report of the Commissioner.

I have dwelt thus fully on our domestic affairs because of their transcendent importance. Under
any circumstances our great extent of territory and variety of climate, producing almost everything
that is necessary for the wants and even the comforts of man, make us singularly independent
of the varying policy of foreign powers and protect us against every temptation to "entangling
alliances," while at the present moment the reestablishment of harmony and the strength that
comes from harmony will be our best security against "nations who feel power and forget right."
For myself, it has been and it will be my constant aim to promote peace and amity with all
foreign nations and powers, and I have every reason to believe that they all, without exception,
are animated by the same disposition. Our relations with the Emperor of China, so recent in
their origin, are most friendly. Our commerce with his dominions is receiving new developments,
and it is very pleasing to find that the Government of that great Empire manifests satisfaction
with our policy and reposes just confidence in the fairness which marks our intercourse. The
unbroken harmony between the United States and the Emperor of Russia is receiving a new support
from an enterprise designed to carry telegraphic lines across the continent of Asia, through
his dominions, and so to connect us with all Europe by a new channel of intercourse. Our commerce
with South America is about to receive encouragement by a direct line of mail steamships to
the rising Empire of Brazil. The distinguished party of men of science who have recently left
our country to make a scientific exploration of the natural history and rivers and mountain
ranges of that region have received from the Emperor that generous welcome which was to have
been expected from his constant friendship for the United States and his well-known zeal in
promoting the advancement of knowledge. A hope is entertained that our commerce with the rich
and populous countries that border the Mediterranean Sea may be largely increased. Nothing
will be wanting on the part of this Government to extend the protection of our flag over the
enterprise of our fellow-citizens. We receive from the powers in that region assurances of
good will; and it is worthy of note that a special envoy has brought us messages of condolence
on the death of our late Chief Magistrate from the Bey of Tunis, whose rule includes the old
dominions of Carthage, on the African coast.

Our domestic contest, now happily ended, has left some traces in our relations with one at
least of the great maritime powers. The formal accordance of belligerent rights to the insurgent
States was unprecedented, and has not been justified by the issue. But in the systems of neutrality
pursued by the powers which made that concession there was a marked difference. The materials
of war for the insurgent States were furnished, in a great measure, from the workshops of Great
Britain, and British ships, manned by British subjects and prepared for receiving British armaments,
sallied from the ports of Great Britain to make war on American commerce under the shelter
of a commission from the insurgent States. These ships, having once escaped from British ports,
ever afterwards entered them in every part of the world to refit, and so to renew their depredations.
The consequences of this conduct were most disastrous to the States then in rebellion, increasing
their desolation and misery by the prolongation of our civil contest. It had, moreover, the
effect, to a great extent, to drive the American flag from the sea, and to transfer much of
our shipping and our commerce to the very power whose subjects had created the necessity for
such a change. These events took place before I was called to the administration of the Government.
The sincere desire for peace by which I am animated led me to approve the proposal, already
made, to submit the question which had thus arisen between the countries to arbitration. These
questions are of such moment that they must have commanded the attention of the great powers,
and are so interwoven with the peace and interests of every one of them as to have insured
an impartial decision. I regret to inform you that Great Britain declined the arbitrament,
but, on the other hand, invited us to the formation of a joint commission to settle mutual
claims between the two countries, from which those for the depredations before mentioned should
be excluded. The proposition, in that very unsatisfactory form, has been declined.

The United States did not present the subject as an impeachment of the good faith of a power
which was professing the most friendly dispositions, but as involving questions of public law
of which the settlement is essential to the peace of nations; and though pecuniary reparation
to their injured citizens would have followed incidentally on a decision against Great Britain,
such compensation was not their primary object. They had a higher motive, and it was in the
interests of peace and justice to establish important principles of international law. The
correspondence will be placed before you. The ground on which the British minister rests his
justification is, substantially, that the municipal law of a nation and the domestic interpretations
of that law are the measure of its duty as a neutral, and I feel bound to declare my opinion
before you and before the world that that justification can not be sustained before the tribunal
of nations. At the same time; I do not advise to any present attempt at redress by acts of
legislation. For the future, friendship between the two countries must rest on the basis of
mutual justice.

From the moment of the establishment of our free Constitution the civilized world has been
convulsed by revolutions in the interests of democracy or of monarchy, but through all those
revolutions the United States have wisely and firmly refused to become propagandists of republicanism.
It is the only government suited to our condition; but we have never sought to impose it on
others, and we have consistently followed the advice of Washington to recommend it only by
the careful preservation and prudent use of the blessing. During all the intervening period
the policy of European powers and of the United States has, on the whole, been harmonious.
Twice, indeed, rumors of the invasion of some parts of America in the interest of monarchy
have prevailed; twice my predecessors have had occasion to announce the views of this nation
in respect to such interference. On both occasions the remonstrance of the United States was
respected from a deep conviction on the part of European Governments that the system of noninterference
and mutual abstinence from propagandism was the true rule for the two hemispheres. Since those
times we have advanced in wealth and power, but we retain the same purpose to leave the nations
of Europe to choose their own dynasties and form their own systems of government. This consistent
moderation may justly demand a corresponding moderation. We should regard it as a great calamity
to ourselves, to the cause of good government, and to the peace of the world should any European
power challenge the American people, as it were, to the defense of republicanism against foreign
interference. We can not foresee and are unwilling to consider what opportunities might present
themselves, what combinations might offer to protect ourselves against designs inimical to
our form of government. The United States desire to act in the future as they have ever acted
heretofore; they never will be driven from that course but by the aggression of European powers,
and we rely on the wisdom and justice of those powers to respect the system of noninterference
which has so long been sanctioned by time, and which by its good results has approved itself
to both continents.

The correspondence between the United States and France in reference to questions which have
become subjects of discussion between the two Governments will at a proper time be laid before
Congress.

When, on the organization of our Government under the Constitution, the President of the United
States delivered his inaugural address to the two Houses of Congress, he said to them, and
through them to the country and to mankind, that--The preservation of the sacred fire of liberty
and the destiny of the republican model of government are justly considered, perhaps, as deeply,
as finally, staked on the experiment intrusted to the hands of the American people. And the
House of Representatives answered Washington by the voice of Madison: We adore the Invisible
Hand which has led the American people, through so many difficulties, to cherish a conscious
responsibility for the destiny of republican liberty. More than seventy-six years have glided
away since these words were spoken; the United States have passed through severer trials than
were foreseen; and now, at this new epoch in our existence as one nation, with our Union purified
by sorrows and strengthened by conflict and established by the virtue of the people, the greatness
of the occasion invites us once more to repeat with solemnity the pledges of our fathers to
hold ourselves answerable before our fellow-men for the success of the republican form of government.
Experience has proved its sufficiency in peace and in war; it has vindicated its authority
through dangers and afflictions, and sudden and terrible emergencies, which would have crushed
any system that had been less firmly fixed in the hearts of the people. At the inauguration
of Washington the foreign relations of the country were few and its trade was repressed by
hostile regulations; now all the civilized nations of the globe welcome our commerce, and their
governments profess toward us amity. Then our country felt its way hesitatingly along an untried
path, with States so little bound together by rapid means of communication as to be hardly
known to one another, and with historic traditions extending over very few years; now intercourse
between the States is swift and intimate; the experience of centuries has been crowded into
a few generations, and has created an intense, indestructible nationality. Then our jurisdiction
did not reach beyond the inconvenient boundaries of the territory which had achieved independence;
now, through cessions of lands, first colonized by Spain and France, the country has acquired
a more complex character, and has for its natural limits the chain of lakes, the Gulf of Mexico,
and on the east and the west the two great oceans. Other nations were wasted by civil wars
for ages before they could establish for themselves the necessary degree of unity; the latent
conviction that our form of government is the best ever known to the world has enabled us to
emerge from civil war within four years with a complete vindication of the constitutional authority
of the General Government and with our local liberties and State institutions unimpaired.

The throngs of emigrants that crowd to our shores are witnesses of the confidence of all peoples
in our permanence. Here is the great land of free labor, where industry is blessed with unexampled
rewards and the bread of the workingman is sweetened by the consciousness that the cause of
the country "is his own cause, his own safety, his own dignity." Here everyone enjoys the free
use of his faculties and the choice of activity as a natural right. Here, under the combined
influence of a fruitful soil, genial climes, and happy institutions, population has increased
fifteen-fold within a century. Here, through the easy development of boundless resources, wealth
has increased with twofold greater rapidity than numbers, so that we have become secure against
the financial vicissitudes of other countries and, alike in business and in opinion, are self-centered
and truly independent. Here more and more care is given to provide education for everyone born
on our soil. Here religion, released from political connection with the civil government, refuses
to subserve the craft of statesmen, and becomes in its independence the spiritual life of the
people. Here toleration is extended to every opinion, in the quiet certainty that truth needs
only a fair field to secure the victory. Here the human mind goes forth unshackled in the pursuit
of science, to collect stores of knowledge and acquire an ever-increasing mastery over the
forces of nature. Here the national domain is offered and held in millions of separate freeholds,
so that our fellow-citizens, beyond the occupants of any other part of the earth, constitute
in reality a people. Here exists the democratic form of government; and that form of government,
by the confession of European statesmen, "gives a power of which no other form is capable,
because it incorporates every man with the state and arouses everything that belongs to the soul."

Where in past history does a parallel exist to the public happiness which is within the reach
of the people of the United States? Where in any part of the globe can institutions be found
so suited to their habits or so entitled to their love as their own free Constitution? Every
one of them, then, in whatever part of the land he has his home, must wish its perpetuity.
Who of them will not now acknowledge, in the words of Washington, that "every step by which
the people of the United States have advanced to the character of an independent nation seems
to have been distinguished by some token of providential agency"? Who will not join with me
in the prayer that the Invisible Hand which has led us through the clouds that gloomed around
our path will so guide us onward to a perfect restoration of fraternal affection that we of
this day may be able to transmit our great inheritance of State governments in all their rights,
of the General Government in its whole constitutional vigor, to our posterity, and they to
theirs through countless generations?

***

State of the Union Address Andrew Johnson December 3, 1866

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

After a brief interval the Congress of the United States resumes its annual legislative labors.
An all-wise and merciful Providence has abated the pestilence which visited our shores, leaving
its calamitous traces upon some portions of our country. Peace, order, tranquillity, and civil
authority have been formally declared to exist throughout the whole of the United States. In
all of the States civil authority has superseded the coercion of arms, and the people, by their
voluntary action, are maintaining their governments in full activity and complete operation.
The enforcement of the laws is no longer "obstructed in any State by combinations too powerful
to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings," and the animosities engendered
by the war are rapidly yielding to the beneficent influences of our free institutions and to
the kindly effects of unrestricted social and commercial intercourse. An entire restoration
of fraternal feeling must be the earnest wish of every patriotic heart; and we will have accomplished
our grandest national achievement when, forgetting the sad events of the past and remembering
only their instructive lessons, we resume our onward career as a free, prosperous, and united
people.

In my message of the 4th of December, 1865, Congress was informed of the measures which had
been instituted by the Executive with a view to the gradual restoration of the States in which
the insurrection occurred to their relations with the General Government. Courts had been opened
for the enforcement of laws long in abeyance. The blockade had been removed, custom-houses
reestablished, and the internal-revenue laws put in force, in order that the people might contribute
to the national income. Postal operations had been renewed, and efforts were being made to
restore them to their former condition of efficiency. The States themselves had been asked
to take Dart in the high function of amending the Constitution, and of thus sanctioning the
extinction of African slavery as one of the legitimate results of our internecine struggle.

Having progressed thus far, the executive department found that it had accomplished nearly
all that was within the scope of its constitutional authority. One thing, however, yet remained
to be done before the work of restoration could be completed, and that was the admission to
Congress of loyal Senators and Representatives from the States whose people had rebelled against
the lawful authority of the General Government. This question devolved upon the respective
Houses, which by the Constitution are made the judges of the elections, returns, and qualifications
of their own members, and its consideration at once engaged the attention of Congress.

In the meantime the executive department--no other plan having been proposed by Congress--continued
its efforts to perfect, as far as was practicable, the restoration of the proper relations
between the citizens of the respective States, the States, and the Federal Government, extending
from time to time, as the public interests seemed to require, the judicial, revenue, and postal
systems of the country. With the advice and consent of the Senate, the necessary officers were
appointed and appropriations made by Congress for the payment of their salaries. The proposition
to amend the Federal Constitution, so as to prevent the existence of slavery within the United
States or any place subject to their jurisdiction, was ratified by the requisite number of
States, and on the 18th day of December, 1865, it was officially declared to have become valid
as a part of the Constitution of the United States. All of the States in which the insurrection
had existed promptly amended their constitutions so as to make them conform to the great change
thus effected in the organic law of the land; declared null and void all ordinances and laws
of secession; repudiated all pretended debts and obligations created for the revolutionary
purposes of the insurrection, and proceeded in good faith to the enactment of measures for
the protection and amelioration of the condition of the colored race. Congress, however, yet
hesitated to admit any of these States to representation, and it was not until toward the close
of the eighth month of the session that an exception was made in favor of Tennessee by the
admission of her Senators and Representatives.

I deem it a subject of profound regret that Congress has thus far failed to admit to seats
loyal Senators and Representatives from the other States whose inhabitants, with those of Tennessee,
had engaged in the rebellion. Ten States--more than one-fourth of the whole number--remain
without representation; the seats of fifty members in the House of Representatives and of twenty
members in the Senate are yet vacant, not by their own consent, not by a failure of election,
but by the refusal of Congress to accept their credentials. Their admission, it is believed,
would have accomplished much toward the renewal and strengthening of our relations as one people
and removed serious cause for discontent on the part of the inhabitants of those States. It
would have accorded with the great principle enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence
that no people ought to bear the burden of taxation and yet be denied the right of representation.
It would have been in consonance with the express provisions of the Constitution that "each
State shall have at least one Representative" and "that no State, without its consent, shall
be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate." These provisions were intended to secure
to every State and to the people of every State the right of representation in each House of
Congress; and so important was it deemed by the framers of the Constitution that the equality
of the States in the Senate should be preserved that not even by an amendment of the Constitution
can any State, without its consent, be denied a voice in that branch of the National Legislature.

It is true it has been assumed that the existence of the States was terminated by the rebellious
acts of their inhabitants, and that, the insurrection having been suppressed, they were thenceforward
to be considered merely as conquered territories. The legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of the Government have, however, with Heat distinctness and uniform consistency,
refused to sanction an assumption so incompatible with the nature of our republican system
and with the professed objects of the war. Throughout the recent legislation of Congress the
undeniable fact makes itself apparent that these ten political communities are nothing less
than States of this Union. At the very commencement of the rebellion each House declared, with
a unanimity as remarkable as it was significant, that the war was not "waged upon our part
in any spirit of oppression, nor for any purpose of conquest or subjugation, nor purpose of
overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of those States, but
to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and all laws made in pursuance thereof,
and to preserve the Union, with all the dignity, equality, and rights of the several States
unimpaired; and that as soon as these objects" were "accomplished the war ought to cease."
In some instances Senators were permitted to continue their legislative functions, while in
other instances Representatives were elected and admitted to seats after their States had formally
declared their right to withdraw from the Union and were endeavoring to maintain that right
by force of arms. All of the States whose people were in insurrection, as States, were included
in the apportionment of the direct tax of $20,000,000 annually laid upon the United States
by the act approved 5th August, 1861. Congress, by the act of March 4, 1862, and by the apportionment
of representation thereunder also recognized their presence as States in the Union; and they
have, for judicial purposes, been divided into districts, as States alone can be divided. The
same recognition appears in the recent legislation in reference to Tennessee, which evidently
rests upon the fact that the functions of the State were not destroyed by the rebellion, but
merely suspended; and that principle is of course applicable to those States which, like Tennessee,
attempted to renounce their places in the Union.

The action of the executive department of the Government upon this subject has been equally
definite and uniform, and the purpose of the war was specifically stated in the proclamation
issued by my predecessor on the 22d day of September, 1862. It was then solemnly proclaimed
and declared "that hereafter, as heretofore, the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically
restoring the constitutional relation between the United States and each of the States and
the people thereof in which States that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed."

The recognition of the States by the judicial department of the Government has also been dear
and conclusive in all proceedings affecting them as States had in the Supreme, circuit, and
district courts. In the admission of Senators and Representatives from any and all of the States
there can be no just ground of apprehension that persons who are disloyal will be clothed with
the powers of legislation, for this could not happen when the Constitution and the laws are
enforced by a vigilant and faithful Congress. Each House is made the "judge of the elections,
returns, and qualifications of its own members," and may, "with the concurrence of two-thirds,
expel a member." When a Senator or Representative presents his certificate of election, he
may at once be admitted or rejected; or, should there be any question as to his eligibility,
his credentials may be referred for investigation to the appropriate committee. If admitted
to a seat, it must be upon evidence satisfactory to the House of which he thus becomes a member
that he possesses the requisite constitutional and legal qualifications. If refused admission
as a member for want of due allegiance to the Government and returned to his constituents,
they are admonished that none but persons loyal to the United States will be allowed a voice
in the legislative councils of the nation, and the political power and moral influence of Congress
are thus effectively exerted in the interests of loyalty to the Government and fidelity to
the Union. Upon this question, so vitally affecting the restoration of the Union and the permanency
of our present form of government, my convictions, heretofore expressed, have undergone no
change, but, on the contrary, their correctness has been confirmed by reflection and time.
If the admission of loyal members to seats in the respective Houses of Congress was wise and
expedient a year ago, it is no less wise and expedient now. If this anomalous condition is
right now--if in the exact condition of these States at the present time it is lawful to exclude
them from representation--I do not see that the question will be changed by the efflux of time.
Ten years hence, if these States remain as they are, the right of representation will be no
stronger, the right of exclusion will be no weaker.

The Constitution of the United States makes it the duty of the President to recommend to the
consideration of Congress "such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient." I know
of no measure more imperatively demanded by every consideration of national interest, sound
policy, and equal justice than the admission of loyal members from the now unrepresented States.
This would consummate the work of restoration and exert a most salutary influence in the reestablishment
of peace, harmony, and fraternal feeling. It would tend greatly to renew the confidence of
the American people in the vigor and stability of their institutions. It would bind us more
closely together as a nation and enable us to show to the world the inherent and recuperative
power of a government founded upon the will of the people and established upon the principles
of liberty, justice, and intelligence. Our increased strength and enhanced prosperity would
irrefragably demonstrate the fallacy of the arguments against free institutions drawn from
our recent national disorders by the enemies of republican government. The admission of loyal
members from the States now excluded from Congress, by allaying doubt and apprehension, would
turn capital now awaiting an opportunity for investment into the channels of trade and industry.
It would alleviate the present troubled condition of those States, and by inducing emigration
aid in the settlement of fertile regions now uncultivated and lead to an increased production
of those staples which have added so greatly to the wealth of the nation and commerce of the
world. New fields of enterprise would be opened to our progressive people and soon the devastations
of war would be repaired and all traces of our domestic differences effaced from the minds
of our countrymen.

In our efforts to preserve "the unity of government which constitutes as one people" by restoring
the States to the condition which they held prior to the rebellion, we should be cautious,
lest, having rescued our nation from perils of threatened disintegration, we resort to consolidation,
and in the end absolute despotism, as a remedy for the recurrence of similar troubles. The
war having terminated, and with it all occasion for the exercise of powers of doubtful constitutionality,
we should hasten to bring legislation within the boundaries prescribed by the Constitution
and to return to the ancient landmarks established by our fathers for the guidance of succeeding
generations. The constitution which at any time exists till changed by an explicit and authentic
act of the whole people is sacredly obligatory upon all. If in the opinion of the people the
distribution or modification of the constitutional powers be in any particular wrong, let it
be corrected by an amendment in the way which the Constitution designates; but let there be
no change by usurpation, for it is the customary weapon by which free governments are destroyed.
Washington spoke these words to his countrymen when, followed by their love and gratitude,
he voluntarily retired from the cares of public life. Jackson held that the action of the General
Government should always be strictly confined to the sphere of its appropriate duties, and
justly and forcibly urged that our Government is not to be maintained nor our Union preserved
"by invasions of the rights and powers of the several States. In thus attempting to make our
General Government strong we make it weak. Its true strength consists in leaving individuals
and States as much as possible to themselves; in making itself felt, not in its power, but
in its beneficence; not in its control, but in its protection; not in binding the States more
closely to the center, but leaving each to move unobstructed in its proper constitutional orbit."
These are the teachings of men whose deeds and services have made them illustrious, and who,
long since withdrawn from the scenes of life, have left to their country the rich legacy of
their example, their wisdom, and their patriotism. Drawing fresh inspiration from their lessons,
let us emulate them in love of country and respect for the Constitution and the laws.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury affords much information respecting the revenue
and commerce of the country. His views upon the currency and with reference to a proper adjustment
of our revenue system, internal as well as impost, are commended to the careful consideration
of Congress. In my last annual message I expressed my general views upon these subjects. I
need now only call attention to the necessity of carrying into every department of the Government
a system of rigid accountability, thorough retrenchment, and wise economy. With no exceptional
nor unusual expenditures, the oppressive burdens of taxation can be lessened by such a modification
of our revenue laws as will be consistent with the public faith and the legitimate and necessary
wants of the Government.

The report presents a much more satisfactory condition of our finances than one year ago the
most sanguine could have anticipated. During the fiscal year ending the 30th June, 1865 (the
last year of the war), the public debt was increased $941,902,537, and on the 31st of October,
1865, it amounted to $2,740,854,750. On the 31st day of October, 1866, it had been reduced
to $2,552,310,006, the diminution during a period of fourteen months, commencing September
1, 1865, and ending October 31, 1866, having been $206,379,565. In the last annual report on
the state of the finances it was estimated that during the three quarters of the fiscal year
ending the 30th of June last the debt would be increased $112,194,947. During that period,
however, it was reduced $31,196,387, the receipts of the year having been $89,905,905 more
and the expenditures $200,529,235 less than the estimates. Nothing could more clearly indicate
than these statements the extent and availability of the national resources and the rapidity
and safety with which under our form of government, great military and naval establishments
can be disbanded and expenses reduced from a war to a peace footing.

During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1866, the receipts were $558,032,620 and the expenditures
$520,750,940, leaving an available surplus of $37,281,680. It is estimated that the receipts
for the fiscal year ending the 30th June, 1867, will be $475,061.386, and that the expenditures
will reach the sum of $316,428,078, leaving in the Treasury a surplus of $158,633,308. For
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1886, it is estimated that the receipts will amount to $436,000,000
and that the expenditures will be $350,247,641, showing an excess of $85,752,359 in favor of
the Government. These estimated receipts may be diminished by a reduction of excise and import
duties, but after all necessary reductions shall have been made the revenue of the present
and of following years will doubtless be sufficient to cover all legitimate charges upon the
Treasury and leave a large annual surplus to be applied to the payment of the principal of
the debt. There seems now to be no good reason why taxes may not be reduced as the country
advances in population and wealth, and yet the debt be extinguished within the next quarter
of a century.

The report of the Secretary of War furnishes valuable and important information in reference
to the operations of his Department during the past year. Few volunteers now remain in the
service, and they are being discharged as rapidly as they can be replaced by regular troops.
The Army has been promptly paid, carefully provided with medical treatment, well sheltered
and subsisted, and is to be furnished with breech-loading small arms. The military strength
of the nation has been unimpaired by the discharge of volunteers, the disposition of unserviceable
or perishable stores, and the retrenchment of expenditure. Sufficient war material to meet
any emergency has been retained, and from the disbanded volunteers standing ready to respond
to the national call large armies can be rapidly organized, equipped, and concentrated. Fortifications
on the coast and frontier have received or are being prepared for more powerful armaments;
lake surveys and harbor and river improvements are in course of energetic prosecution. Preparations
have been made for the payment of the additional bounties authorized during the recent session
of Congress, under such regulations as will protect the Government from fraud and secure to
the honorably discharged soldier the well-earned reward of his faithfulness and gallantry.
More than 6,000 maimed soldiers have received artificial limbs or other surgical apparatus,
and 41 national cemeteries, containing the remains of 104,526 Union soldiers, have already
been established. The total estimate of military appropriations is $25,205,669.

It is stated in the report of the Secretary of the Navy that the naval force at this time consists
of 278 vessels, armed with 2,351 guns. Of these, 115 vessels, carrying 1,029 guns, are in commission,
distributed chiefly among seven squadrons. The number of men in the service is 13,600. Great
activity and vigilance have been displayed by all the squadrons, and their movements have been
judiciously and efficiently arranged in such manner as would best promote American commerce
and protect the rights and interests of our countrymen abroad. The vessels unemployed are undergoing
repairs or are laid up until their services may be required. Most of the ironclad fleet is
at League Island, in the vicinity of Philadelphia, a place which, until decisive action should
be taken by Congress, was selected by the Secretary of the Navy as the most eligible location
for that class of vessels. It is important that a suitable public station should be provided
for the ironclad fleet. It is intended that these vessels shall be in proper condition for
any emergency, and it is desirable that the bill accepting League Island for naval purposes,
which passed the House of Representatives at its last session, should receive final action
at an early period, in order that there may be a suitable public station for this class of
vessels, as well as a navy-yard of area sufficient for the wants of the service on the Delaware
River. The naval pension fund amounts to $11,750,000, having been increased $2,750,000 during
the year. The expenditures of the Department for the fiscal year ending 30th June last were
$43,324,526, and the estimates for the coming year amount to $23,568,436. Attention is invited
to the condition of our seamen and the importance of legislative measures for their relief
and improvement. The suggestions in behalf of this deserving class of our fellow-citizens are
earnestly recommended to the favorable attention of Congress.

The report of the Postmaster-General presents a most satisfactory condition of the postal service
and submits recommendations which deserve the consideration of Congress. The revenues of the
Department for the year ending June 30, 1866, were $14,386,986 and the expenditures $15,352,079,
showing an excess of the latter of $965,093. In anticipation of this deficiency, however, a
special appropriation was made by Congress in the act approved July 28, 1866. Including the
standing appropriation of $700,000 for free mail matter as a legitimate portion of the revenues,
yet remaining unexpended, the actual deficiency for the past year is only $265,093--a sum within
$51,141 of the amount estimated in the annual report of 1864. The decrease of revenue compared
with the previous year was 1 1/5 per cent, and the increase of expenditures, owing principally
to the enlargement of the mail service in the South, was 12 per cent. On the 30th of June last
there were in operation 6,930 mail routes, with an aggregate length of 180,921 miles, an aggregate
annual transportation of 71,837,914 miles, and an aggregate annual cost, including all expenditures,
of $8,410,184. The length of railroad routes is 32,092 miles and the annual transportation
30,609,467 miles. The length of steamboat routes is 14,346 miles and the annual transportation
3,411,962 miles. The mail service is rapidly increasing throughout the whole country, and its
steady extension in the Southern States indicates their constantly improving condition. The
growing importance of the foreign service also merits attention. The post-office department
of Great Britain and our own have agreed upon a preliminary basis for a new postal convention,
which it is believed will prove eminently beneficial to the commercial interests of the United
States, inasmuch as it contemplates a reduction of the international letter postage to one-half
the existing rates: a reduction of postage with all other countries to and from which correspondence
is transmitted in the British mail, or in closed mails through the United Kingdom; the establishment
of uniform and reasonable charges for the sea and territorial transit of correspondence in
closed mails; and an allowance to each post-office department of the right to use all mail
communications established under the authority of the other for the dispatch of correspondence,
either in open or closed mails, on the same terms as those applicable to the inhabitants of
the country providing the means of transmission.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior exhibits the condition of those branches of the
public service which are committed to his supervision. During the last fiscal year 4,629,312
acres of public land were disposed of, 1,892,516 acres of which were entered under the homestead
act. The policy originally adopted relative to the public lands has undergone essential modifications.
Immediate revenue, and not their rapid settlement, was the cardinal feature of our land system.
Long experience and earnest discussion have resulted in the conviction that the early development
of our agricultural resources and the diffusion of an energetic population over our vast territory
are objects of far greater importance to the national growth and prosperity than the proceeds
of the sale of the land to the highest bidder in open market. The preemption laws confer upon
the pioneer who complies with the terms they impose the privilege of purchasing a limited portion
of "unoffered lands" at the minimum price. The homestead enactments relieve the settler from
the payment of purchase money, and secure him a permanent home upon the condition of residence
for a term of years. This liberal policy invites emigration from the Old and from the more
crowded portions of the New World. Its propitious results are undoubted, and will be more signally
manifested when time shall have given to it a wider development.

Congress has made liberal grants of public land to corporations in aid of the construction
of railroads and other internal improvements. Should this policy hereafter prevail, more stringent
provisions will be required to secure a faithful application of the fund. The title to the
lands should not pass, by patent or otherwise, but remain in the Government and subject to
its control until some portion of the road has been actually built. Portions of them might
then from time to time be conveyed to the corporation, but never in a greater ratio to the
whole quantity embraced by the grant than the completed parts bear to the entire length of
the projected improvement. This restriction would not operate to the prejudice of any undertaking
conceived in good faith and executed with reasonable energy, as it is the settled practice
to withdraw from market the lands falling within the operation of such grants, and thus to
exclude the inception of a subsequent adverse right. A breach of the conditions which Congress
may deem proper to impose should work a forfeiture of claim to the lands so withdrawn but unconveyed,
and of title to the lands conveyed which remain unsold.

Operations on the several lines of the Pacific Railroad have been prosecuted with unexampled
vigor and success. Should no unforeseen causes of delay occur, it is confidently anticipated
that this great thoroughfare will be completed before the expiration of the period designated
by Congress.

During the last fiscal year the amount paid to pensioners, including the expenses of disbursement,
was $13,459,996, and 50,177 names were added to the pension rolls. The entire number of pensioners
June 30, 1866, was 126,722. This fact furnishes melancholy and striking proof of the sacrifices
made to vindicate the constitutional authority of the Federal Government and to maintain inviolate
the integrity of the Union They impose upon us corresponding obligations. It is estimated that
$33,000,000 will be required to meet the exigencies of this branch of the service during the
next fiscal year.

Treaties have been concluded with the Indians, who, enticed into armed opposition to our Government
at the outbreak of the rebellion, have unconditionally submitted to our authority and manifested
an earnest desire for a renewal of friendly relations.

During the year ending September 30, 1866, 8,716 patents for useful inventions and designs
were issued, and at that date the balance in the Treasury to the credit of the patent fund
was $228,297.

As a subject upon which depends an immense amount of the production and commerce of the country,
I recommend to Congress such legislation as may be necessary for the preservation of the levees
of the Mississippi River. It is a matter of national importance that early steps should be
taken, not only to add to the efficiency of these barriers against destructive inundations,
but for the removal of all obstructions to the free and safe navigation of that great channel
of trade and commerce.

The District of Columbia under existing laws is not entitled to that representation in the
national councils which from our earliest history has been uniformly accorded to each Territory
established from time to time within our limits. It maintains peculiar relations to Congress,
to whom the Constitution has granted the power of exercising exclusive legislation over the
seat of Government. Our fellow-citizens residing in the District, whose interests are thus
confided to the special guardianship of Congress, exceed in number the population of several
of our Territories, and no just reason is perceived why a Delegate of their choice should not
be admitted to a seat in the House of Representatives. No mode seems so appropriate and effectual
of enabling them to make known their peculiar condition and wants and of securing the local
legislation adapted to them. I therefore recommend the passage of a law authorizing the electors
of the District of Columbia to choose a Delegate, to be allowed the same rights and privileges
as a Delegate representing a Territory. The increasing enterprise and rapid progress of improvement
in the District are highly gratifying, and I trust that the efforts of the municipal authorities
to promote the prosperity of the national metropolis will receive the efficient and generous
cooperation of Congress.

The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture reviews the operations of his Department during
the past year, and asks the aid of Congress in its efforts to encourage those States which,
scourged by war, are now earnestly engaged in the reorganization of domestic industry.

It is a subject of congratulation that no foreign combinations against our domestic peace and
safety or our legitimate influence among the nations have been formed or attempted. While sentiments
of reconciliation, loyalty, and patriotism have increased at home, a more just consideration
of our national character and rights has been manifested by foreign nations.

The entire success of the Atlantic telegraph between the coast of Ireland and the Province
of Newfoundland is an achievement which has been justly celebrated in both hemispheres as the
opening of an era in the progress of civilization. There is reason to expect that equal success
will attend and even greater results follow the enterprise for connecting the two continents
through the Pacific Ocean by the projected line of telegraph between Kamchatka and the Russian
possessions in America.

The resolution of Congress protesting against pardons by foreign governments of persons convicted
of infamous offenses on condition of emigration to our country has been communicated to the
states with which we maintain intercourse, and the practice, so justly the subject of complaint
on our part, has not been renewed.

The congratulations of Congress to the Emperor of Russia upon his escape from attempted assassination
have been presented to that humane and enlightened ruler and received by him with expressions
of grateful appreciation.

The Executive, warned of an attempt by Spanish American adventurers to induce the emigration
of freedmen of the United States to a foreign country, protested against the project as one
which, if consummated, would reduce them to a bondage even more oppressive than that from which
they have just been relieved. Assurance has been received from the Government of the State
in which the plan was matured that the proceeding will meet neither its encouragement nor approval.
It is a question worthy of your consideration whether our laws upon this subject are adequate
to the prevention or punishment of the crime thus meditated.

In the month of April last, as Congress is aware, a friendly arrangement was made between the
Emperor of France and the President of the United States for the withdrawal from Mexico of
the French expeditionary military forces. This withdrawal was to be effected in three detachments,
the first of which, it was understood, would leave Mexico in November, now past, the second
in March next, and the third and last in November, 1867. Immediately upon the completion of
the evacuation the French Government was to assume the same attitude of nonintervention in
regard to Mexico as is held by the Government of the United States. Repeated assurances have
been given by the Emperor since that agreement that he would complete the promised evacuation
within the period mentioned, or sooner.

It was reasonably expected that the proceedings thus contemplated would produce a crisis of
great political interest in the Republic of Mexico. The newly appointed minister of the United
States, Mr. Campbell, was therefore sent forward on the 9th day of November last to assume
his proper functions as minister plenipotentiary of the United States to that Republic. It
was also thought expedient that he should be attended in the vicinity of Mexico by the Lieutenant-General
of the Army of the United States, with the view of obtaining such information as might be important
to determine the course to be pursued by the United States in reestablishing and maintaining
necessary and proper intercourse with the Republic of Mexico. Deeply interested in the cause
of liberty and humanity, it seemed an obvious duty on our part to exercise whatever influence
we possessed for the restoration and permanent establishment in that country of a domestic
and republican form of government.

Such was the condition of our affairs in regard to Mexico when, on the 22d of November last,
official information was received from Paris that the Emperor of France had some time before
decided not to withdraw a detachment of his forces in the month of November past, according
to engagement, but that this decision was made with the purpose of withdrawing the whole of
those forces in the ensuing spring. Of this determination, however, the United States had not
received any notice or intimation, and so soon as the information was received by the Government
care was taken to make known its dissent to the Emperor of France.

I can not forego the hope that France will reconsider the subject and adopt some resolution
in regard to the evacuation of Mexico which will conform as nearly as practicable with the
existing engagement, and thus meet the just expectations of the United States. The papers relating
to the subject will be laid before you. It is believed that with the evacuation of Mexico by
the expeditionary forces no subject for serious differences between France and the United States
would remain. The expressions of the Emperor and people of France warrant a hope that the traditionary
friendship between the two countries might in that case be renewed and permanently restored.

A claim of a citizen of the United States for indemnity for spoliations committed on the high
seas by the French authorities in the exercise of a belligerent power against Mexico has been
met by the Government of France with a proposition to defer settlement until a mutual convention
for the adjustment of all claims of citizens and subjects of both countries arising out of
the recent wars on this continent shall be agreed upon by the two countries. The suggestion
is not deemed unreasonable, but it belongs to Congress to direct the manner in which claims
for indemnity by foreigners as well as by citizens of the United States arising out of the
late civil war shall be adjudicated and determined. I have no doubt that the subject of all
such claims will engage your attention at a convenient and proper time.

It is a matter of regret that no considerable advance has been made toward an adjustment of
the differences between the United States and Great Britain arising out of the depredations
upon our national commerce and other trespasses committed during our civil war by British subjects,
in violation of international law and treaty obligations. The delay, however, may be believed
to have resulted in no small degree from the domestic situation of Great Britain. An entire
change of ministry occurred in that country during the last session of Parliament. The attention
of the new ministry was called to the subject at an early day, and there is some reason to
expect that it will now be considered in a becoming and friendly spirit. The importance of
an early disposition of the question can not be exaggerated. Whatever might be the wishes of
the two Governments, it is manifest that good will and friendship between the two countries
can not be established until a reciprocity in the practice of good faith and neutrality shall
be restored between the respective nations.

On the 6th of June last, in violation of our neutrality laws, a military expedition and enterprise
against the British North American colonies was projected and attempted to be carried on within
the territory and jurisdiction of the United States. In obedience to the obligation imposed
upon the Executive by the Constitution to see that the laws are faithfully executed, all citizens
were warned by proclamation against taking part in or aiding such unlawful proceedings, and
the proper civil, military, and naval officers were directed to take all necessary measures
for the enforcement of the laws. The expedition failed, but it has not been without its painful
consequences. Some of our citizens who, it was alleged, were engaged in the expedition were
captured, and have been brought to trial as for a capital offense in the Province of Canada.
Judgment and sentence of death have been pronounced against some, while others have been acquitted.
Fully believing in the maxim of government that severity of civil punishment for misguided
persons who have engaged in revolutionary attempts which have disastrously failed is unsound
and unwise, such representations have been made to the British Government in behalf of the
convicted persons as, being sustained by an enlightened and humane judgment, will, it is hoped,
induce in their cases an exercise of clemency and a judicious amnesty to all who were engaged
in the movement. Counsel has been employed by the Government to defend citizens of the United
States on trial for capital offenses in Canada, and a discontinuance of the prosecutions which
were instituted in the courts of the United States against those who took part in the expedition
has been directed.

I have regarded the expedition as not only political in its nature, but as also in a great
measure foreign from the United States in its causes, character, and objects. The attempt was
understood to be made in sympathy with an insurgent party in Ireland, and by striking at a
British Province on this continent was designed to aid in obtaining redress for political grievances
which, it was assumed, the people of Ireland had suffered at the hands of the British Government
during a period of several centuries. The persons engaged in it were chiefly natives of that
country, some of whom had, while others had not, become citizens of the United States under
our general laws of naturalization. Complaints of misgovernment in Ireland continually engage
the attention of the British nation, and so great an agitation is now prevailing in Ireland
that the British Government have deemed it necessary to suspend the writ of habeas corpus in
that country. These circumstances must necessarily modify the opinion which we might otherwise
have entertained in regard to an expedition expressly prohibited by our neutrality laws. So
long as those laws remain upon our statute books they should be faithfully executed, and if
they operate harshly, unjustly, or oppressively Congress alone can apply the remedy by their
modification or repeal.

Political and commercial interests of the United States are not unlikely to be affected in
some degree by events which are transpiring in the eastern regions of Europe, and the time
seems to have come when our Government ought to have a proper diplomatic representation in Greece.

This Government has claimed for all persons not convicted or accused or suspected of crime
an absolute political right of self-expatriation and a choice of new national allegiance. Most
of the European States have dissented from this principle, and have claimed a right to hold
such of their subjects as have emigrated to and been naturalized in the United States and afterwards
returned on transient visits to their native countries to the performance of military service
in like manner as resident subjects. Complaints arising from the claim in this respect made
by foreign states have heretofore been matters of controversy between the United States and
some of the European powers, and the irritation consequent upon the failure to settle this
question increased during the war in which Prussia, Italy, and Austria were recently engaged.
While Great Britain has never acknowledged the right of expatriation, she has not for some
years past practically insisted upon the opposite doctrine. France has been equally forbearing,
and Prussia has proposed a compromise, which, although evincing increased liberality, has not
been accepted by the United States. Peace is now prevailing everywhere in Europe, and the present
seems to be a favorable time for an assertion by Congress of the principle so long maintained
by the executive department that naturalization by one state fully exempts the native-born
subject of any other state from the performance of military service under any foreign government,
so long as he does not voluntarily renounce its rights and benefits.

In the performance of a duty imposed upon me by the Constitution I have thus submitted to the
representatives of the States and of the people such information of our domestic and foreign
affairs as the public interests seem to require. Our Government is now undergoing its most
trying ordeal, and my earnest prayer is that the peril may be successfully and finally passed
without impairing its original strength and symmetry. The interests of the nation are best
to be promoted by the revival of fraternal relations, the complete obliteration of our past
differences, and the reinauguration of all the pursuits of peace. Directing our efforts to
the early accomplishment of these great ends, let us endeavor to preserve harmony between the
coordinate departments of the Government, that each in its proper sphere may cordially cooperate
with the other in securing the maintenance of the Constitution, the preservation of the Union,
and the perpetuity of our free institutions.

***

State of the Union Address Andrew Johnson December 3, 1867

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

The continued disorganization of the Union, to which the President has so often called the
attention of Congress, is yet a subject of profound and patriotic concern. We may, however,
find some relief from that anxiety in the reflection that the painful political situation,
although before untried by ourselves, is not new in the experience of nations. Political science,
perhaps as highly perfected in our own time and country as in any other, has not yet disclosed
any means by which civil wars can be absolutely prevented. An enlightened nation, however,
with a wise and beneficent constitution of free government, may diminish their frequency and
mitigate their severity by directing all its proceedings in accordance with its fundamental law.

When a civil war has been brought to a close, it is manifestly the first interest and duty
of the state to repair the injuries which the war has inflicted, and to secure the benefit
of the lessons it teaches as fully and as speedily as possible. This duty was, upon the termination
of the rebellion, promptly accepted not only by the executive department, but by the insurrectionary
States themselves, and restoration in the first moment of peace was believed to be as easy
and certain as it was indispensable. The expectations, however, then so reasonably and confidently
entertained were disappointed by legislation from which I felt constrained by my obligations
to the Constitution to withhold my assent.

It is therefore a source of profound regret that in complying with the obligation imposed upon
the President by the Constitution to give to Congress from time to time information of the
state of the Union I am unable to communicate any definitive adjustment satisfactory to the
American people, of the questions which since the close of the rebellion have agitated the
public mind. On the contrary, candor compels me to declare that at this time there is no Union
as our fathers understood the term, and as they meant it to be understood by us. The Union
which they established can exist only where all the States are represented in both Houses of
Congress; where one State is as free as another to regulate its internal concerns according
to its own will, and where the laws of the central Government, strictly confined to matters
of national jurisdiction, apply with equal force to all the people of every section. That such
is not the present "state of the Union" is a melancholy fact, and we must all acknowledge that
the restoration of the States to their proper legal relations with the Federal Government and
with one another, according to the terms of the original compact, would be the greatest temporal
blessing which God, in His kindest providence, could bestow upon this nation. It becomes our
imperative duty to consider whether or not it is impossible to effect this most desirable consummation.
The Union and the Constitution are inseparable. As long as one is obeyed by all parties, the
other will be preserved; and if one is destroyed, both must perish together. The destruction
of the Constitution will be followed by other and still greater calamities. It was ordained
not only to form a more perfect union between the States, but to "establish justice, insure
domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure
the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity." Nothing but implicit obedience to
its requirements in all parts of the country will accomplish these great ends. Without that
obedience we can look forward only to continual outrages upon individual rights, incessant
breaches of the public peace, national weakness, financial dishonor, the total loss of our
prosperity, the general corruption of morals, and the final extinction of popular freedom.
To save our country from evils so appalling as these, we should renew our efforts again and again.

To me the process of restoration seems perfectly plain and simple. It consists merely in a
faithful application of the Constitution and laws. The execution of the laws is not now obstructed
or opposed by physical force. There is no military or other necessity, real or pretended, which
can prevent obedience to the Constitution, either North or South. All the rights and all the
obligations of States and individuals can be protected and enforced by means perfectly consistent
with the fundamental law. The courts may be everywhere open, and if open their process would
be unimpeded. Crimes against the United States can be prevented or punished by the proper judicial
authorities in a manner entirely practicable and legal. There is therefore no reason why the
Constitution should not be obeyed, unless those who exercise its powers have determined that
it shall be disregarded and violated. The mere naked will of this Government, or of some one
or more of its branches, is the only obstacle that can exist to a perfect union of all the States.

On this momentous question and some of the measures growing out of it I have had the misfortune
to differ from Congress, and have expressed my convictions without reserve, though with becoming
deference to the opinion of the legislative department. Those convictions are not only unchanged,
but strengthened by subsequent events and further reflection The transcendent importance of
the subject will be a sufficient excuse for calling your attention to some of the reasons which
have so strongly influenced my own judgment. The hope that we may all finally concur in a mode
of settlement consistent at once with our true interests and with our sworn duties to the Constitution
is too natural and too just to be easily relinquished.

It is clear to my apprehension that the States lately in rebellion are still members of the
National Union. When did they cease to be so? The "ordinances of secession" adopted by a portion
(in most of them a very small portion) of their citizens were mere nullities. If we admit now
that they were valid and effectual for the purpose intended by their authors, we sweep from
under our feet the whole ground upon which we justified the war. Were those States afterwards
expelled from the Union by the war? The direct contrary was averred by this Government to be
its purpose, and was so understood by all those who gave their blood and treasure to aid in
its prosecution. It can not be that a successful war, waged for the preservation of the Union,
had the legal effect of dissolving it. The victory of the nation's arms was not the disgrace
of her policy; the defeat of secession on the battlefield was not the triumph of its lawless
principle. Nor could Congress, with or without the consent of the Executive, do anything which
would have the effect, directly or indirectly, of separating the States from each other. To
dissolve the Union is to repeal the Constitution which holds it together, and that is a power
which does not belong to any department of this Government, or to all of them united.

This is so plain that it has been acknowledged by all branches of the Federal Government. The
Executive (my predecessor as well as myself) and the heads of all the Departments have uniformly
acted upon the principle that the Union is not only undissolved, but indissoluble. Congress
submitted an amendment of the Constitution to be ratified by the Southern States, and accepted
their acts of ratification as a necessary and lawful exercise of their highest function. If
they were not States, or were States out of the Union, their consent to a change in the fundamental
law of the Union would have been nugatory, and Congress in asking it committed a political
absurdity. The judiciary has also given the solemn sanction of its authority to the same view
of the case. The judges of the Supreme Court have included the Southern States in their circuits,
and they are constantly, in banc and elsewhere, exercising jurisdiction which does not belong
to them unless those States are States of the Union.

If the Southern States are component parts of the Union, the Constitution is the supreme law
for them, as it is for all the other States. They are bound to obey it, and so are we. The
right of the Federal Government, which is clear and unquestionable, to enforce the Constitution
upon them implies the correlative obligation on our part to observe its limitations and execute
its guaranties. Without the Constitution we are nothing; by, through, and under the Constitution
we are what it makes us. We may doubt the wisdom of the law, we may not approve of its provisions,
but we can not violate it merely because it seems to confine our powers within limits narrower
than we could wish. It is not a question of individual or class or sectional interest, much
less of party predominance, but of duty--of high and sacred duty--which we are all sworn to
perform. If we can not support the Constitution with the cheerful alacrity of those who love
and believe in it, we must give to it at least the fidelity of public servants who act under
solemn obligations and commands which they dare not disregard.

The constitutional duty is not the only one which requires the States to be restored. There
is another consideration which, though of minor importance, is yet of great weight. On the
22d day of July, 1861, Congress declared by an almost unanimous vote of both Houses that the
war should be conducted solely for the purpose of preserving the Union and maintaining the
supremacy of the Federal Constitution and laws, without impairing the dignity, equality, and
rights of the States or of individuals, and that when this was done the war should cease. I
do not say that this declaration is personally binding on those who joined in making it, any
more than individual members of Congress are personally bound to pay a public debt created
under a law for which they voted. But it was a solemn public, official pledge of the national
honor, and I can not imagine upon what grounds the repudiation of it is to be justified. If
it be said that we are not bound to keep faith with rebels, let it be remembered that this
promise was not made to rebels only. Thousands of true men in the South were drawn to our standard
by it, and hundreds of thousands in the North gave their lives in the belief that it would
be carried out. It was made on the day after the first great battle of the war had been fought
and lost. All patriotic and intelligent men then saw the necessity of giving such an assurance,
and believed that without it the war would end in disaster to our cause. Having given that
assurance in the extremity of our peril, the violation of it now, in the day of our power,
would be a rude rending of that good faith which holds the moral world together; our country
would cease to have any claim upon the confidence of men; it would make the war not only a
failure, but a fraud.

Being sincerely convinced that these views are correct, I would be unfaithful to my duty if
I did not recommend the repeal of the acts of Congress which place ten of the Southern States
under the domination of military masters. If calm reflection shall satisfy a majority of your
honorable bodies that the acts referred to are not only a violation of the national faith,
but in direct conflict with the Constitution, I dare not permit myself to doubt that you will
immediately strike them from the statute book.

To demonstrate the unconstitutional character of those acts I need do no more than refer to
their general provisions. It must be seen at once that they are not authorized. To dictate
what alterations shall be made in the constitutions of the several States; to control the elections
of State legislators and State officers, members of Congress and electors of President and
Vice-President, by arbitrarily declaring who shall vote and who shall be excluded from that
privilege; to dissolve State legislatures or prevent them from assembling; to dismiss judges
and other civil functionaries of the State and appoint others without regard to State law;
to organize and operate all the political machinery of the States; to regulate the whole administration
of their domestic and local affairs according to the mere will of strange and irresponsible
agents, sent among them for that purpose--these are powers not granted to the Federal Government
or to any one of its branches. Not being granted, we violate our trust by assuming them as
palpably as we would by acting in the face of a positive interdict; for the Constitution forbids
us to do whatever it does not affirmatively authorize, either by express words or by clear
implication. If the authority we desire to use does not come to us through the Constitution,
we can exercise it only by usurpation, and usurpation is the most dangerous of political crimes.
By that crime the enemies of free government in all ages have worked out their designs against
public liberty and private right. It leads directly and immediately to the establishment of
absolute rule, for undelegated power is always unlimited and unrestrained.

The acts of Congress in question are not only objectionable for their assumption of ungranted
power, but many of their provisions are in conflict with the direct prohibitions of the Constitution.
The Constitution commands that a republican form of government shall be guaranteed to all the
States; that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process
of law, arrested without a judicial warrant, or punished without a fair trial before an impartial
jury; that the privilege of habeas corpus shall not be denied in time of peace, and that no
bill of attainder shall be passed even against a single individual. Yet the system of measures
established by these acts of Congress does totally subvert and destroy the form as well as
the substance of republican government in the ten States to which they apply. It binds them
hand and foot in absolute slavery, and subjects them to a strange and hostile power, more unlimited
and more likely to be abused than any other now known among civilized men. It tramples down
all those rights in which the essence of liberty consists, and which a free government is always
most careful to protect. It denies the habeas corpus and the trial by jury. Personal freedom,
property, and life, if assailed by the passion, the prejudice, or the rapacity of the ruler,
have no security whatever. It has the effect of a bill of attainder or bill of pains and penalties,
not upon a few individuals, but upon whole masses, including the millions who inhabit the subject
States, and even their unborn children. These wrongs, being expressly forbidden, can not be
constitutionally inflicted upon any portion of our people, no matter how they may have come
within our jurisdiction, and no matter whether they live in States, Territories, or districts.

I have no desire to save from the proper and just consequences of their great crime those who
engaged in rebellion against the Government, but as a mode of punishment the measures under
consideration are the most unreasonable that could be invented. Many of those people are perfectly
innocent; many kept their fidelity to the Union untainted to the last; many were incapable
of any legal offense; a large proportion even of the persons able to bear arms were forced
into rebellion against their will, and of those who are guilty with their own consent the degrees
of guilt are as various as the shades of their character and temper. But these acts of Congress
confound them all together in one common doom. Indiscriminate vengeance upon classes, sects,
and parties, or upon whole communities, for offenses committed by a portion of them against
the governments to which they owed obedience was common in the barbarous ages of the world;
but Christianity and civilization have made such progress that recourse to a punishment so
cruel and unjust would meet with the condemnation of all unprejudiced and right-minded men.
The punitive justice of this age, and especially of this country, does not consist in stripping
whole States of their liberties and reducing all their people, without distinction, to the
condition of slavery. It deals separately with each individual, confines itself to the forms
of law, and vindicates its own purity by an impartial examination of every case before a competent
judicial tribunal. If this does not satisfy all our desires with regard to Southern rebels,
let us console ourselves by reflecting that a free Constitution, triumphant in war and unbroken
in peace, is worth far more to us and our children than the gratification of any present feeling.

I am aware it is assumed that this system of government for the Southern States is not to be
perpetual. It is true this military government is to be only provisional, but it is through
this temporary evil that a greater evil is to be made perpetual. If the guaranties of the Constitution
can be broken provisionally to serve a temporary purpose, and in a part only of the country,
we can destroy them everywhere and for all time. Arbitrary measures often change, but they
generally change for the worse. It is the curse of despotism that it has no halting place.
The intermitted exercise of its power brings no sense of security to its subjects, for they
can never know what more they will be called to endure when its red right hand is armed to
plague them again. Nor is it possible to conjecture how or where power, unrestrained by law,
may seek its next victims. The States that are still free may be enslaved at any moment; for
if the Constitution does not protect all, it protects none.

It is manifestly and avowedly the object of these laws to confer upon Negroes the privilege
of voting and to disfranchise such a number of white citizens as will give the former a clear
majority at all elections in the Southern States. This, to the minds of some persons, is so
important that a violation of the Constitution is justified as a means of bringing it about.
The morality is always false which excuses a wrong because it proposes to accomplish a desirable
end. We are not permitted to do evil that good may come. But in this case the end itself is
evil, as well as the means. The subjugation of the States to Negro domination would be worse
than the military despotism under which they are now suffering. It was believed beforehand
that the people would endure any amount of military oppression for any length of time rather
than degrade themselves by subjection to the Negro race. Therefore they have been left without
a choice. Negro suffrage was established by act of Congress, and the military officers were
commanded to superintend the process of clothing the Negro race with the political privileges
torn from white men.

The blacks in the South are entitled to be well and humanely governed, and to have the protection
of just laws for all their rights of person and property. If it were practicable at this time
to give them a Government exclusively their own, under which they might manage their own affairs
in their own way, it would become a grave question whether we ought to do so, or whether common
humanity would not require us to save them from themselves. But under the circumstances this
is only a speculative point. It is not proposed merely that they shall govern themselves, but
that they shall rule the white race, make and administer State laws, elect Presidents and members
of Congress, and shape to a greater or less extent the future destiny of the whole country.
Would such a trust and power be safe in such hands?

The peculiar qualities which should characterize any people who are fit to decide upon the
management of public affairs for a great state have seldom been combined. It is the glory of
white men to know that they have had these qualities in sufficient measure to build upon this
continent a great political fabric and to preserve its stability for more than ninety years,
while in every other part of the world all similar experiments have failed. But if anything
can be proved by known facts, if all reasoning upon evidence is not abandoned, it must be acknowledged
that in the progress of nations Negroes have shown less capacity for government than any other
race of people. No independent government of any form has ever been successful in their hands.
On the contrary, wherever they have been left to their own devices they have shown a constant
tendency to relapse into barbarism. In the Southern States, however, Congress has undertaken
to confer upon them the privilege of the ballot. Just released from slavery, it may be doubted
whether as a class they know more than their ancestors how to organize and regulate civil society.
Indeed, it is admitted that the blacks of the South are not only regardless of the rights of
property, but so utterly ignorant of public affairs that their voting can consist in nothing
more than carrying a ballot to the place where they are directed to deposit it. I need not
remind you that the exercise of the elective franchise is the highest attribute of an American
citizen, and that when guided by virtue, intelligence, patriotism, and a proper appreciation
of our free institutions it constitutes the true basis of a democratic form of government,
in which the sovereign power is lodged in the body of the people. A trust artificially created,
not for its own sake, but solely as a means of promoting the general welfare, its influence
for good must necessarily depend upon the elevated character and true allegiance of the elector.
It ought, therefore, to be reposed in none except those who are fitted morally and mentally
to administer it well; for if conferred upon persons who do not justly estimate its value and
who are indifferent as to its results, it will only serve as a means of placing power in the
hands of the unprincipled and ambitious, and must eventuate in the complete destruction of
that liberty of which it should be the most powerful conservator. I have therefore heretofore
urged upon your attention the great danger--to be apprehended from an untimely extension of
the elective franchise to any new class in our country, especially when the large majority
of that class, in wielding the power thus placed in their hands, can not be expected correctly
to comprehend the duties and responsibilities which pertain to suffrage. Yesterday, as it were,
4,000,000 persons were held in a condition of slavery that had existed for generations; to-day
they are freemen and are assumed by law to be citizens. It can not be presumed, from their
previous condition of servitude, that as a class they are as well informed as to the nature
of our Government as the intelligent foreigner who makes our land the home of his choice. In
the case of the latter neither a residence of five years and the knowledge of our institutions
which it gives nor attachment to the principles of the Constitution are the only conditions
upon which he can be admitted to citizenship; he must prove in addition a good moral character,
and thus give reasonable ground for the belief that he will be faithful to the obligations
which he assumes as a citizen of the Republic. Where a people--the source of all political
power--speak by their suffrages through the instrumentality of the ballot box, it must be carefully
guarded against the control of those who are corrupt in principle and enemies of free institutions,
for it can only become to our political and social system a safe conductor of healthy popular
sentiment when kept free from demoralizing influences. Controlled through fraud and usurpation
by the designing, anarchy and despotism must inevitably follow. In the hands of the patriotic
and worthy our Government will be preserved upon the principles of the Constitution inherited
from our fathers. It follows, therefore, that in admitting to the ballot box a new class of
voters not qualified for the exercise of the elective franchise we weaken our system of government
instead of adding to its strength and durability.

I yield to no one in attachment to that rule of general suffrage which distinguishes our policy
as a nation. But there is a limit, wisely observed hitherto, which makes the ballot a privilege
and a trust, and which requires of some classes a time suitable for probation and preparation.
To give it indiscriminately to a new class, wholly unprepared by previous habits and opportunities
to perform the trust which it demands, is to degrade it, and finally to destroy its power,
for it may be safely assumed that no political truth is better established than that such indiscriminate
and all-embracing extension of popular suffrage must end at last in its destruction. I repeat
the expression of my willingness to join in any plan within the scope of our constitutional
authority which promises to better the condition of the Negroes in the South, by encouraging
them in industry, enlightening their minds, improving their morals, and giving protection to
all their just rights as freedmen. But the transfer of our political inheritance to them would,
in my opinion, be an abandonment of a duty which we owe alike to the memory of our fathers
and the rights of our children.

The plan of putting the Southern States wholly and the General Government partially into the
hands of Negroes is proposed at a time peculiarly unpropitious. The foundations of society
have been broken up by civil war. Industry must be reorganized, justice reestablished, public
credit maintained, and order brought out of confusion. To accomplish these ends would require
all the wisdom and virtue of the great men who formed our institutions originally. I confidently
believe that their descendants will be equal to the arduous task before them, but it is worse
than madness to expect that Negroes will perform it for us. Certainly we ought not to ask their
assistance till we despair of our own competency.

The great difference between the two races in physical, mental, and moral characteristics will
prevent an amalgamation or fusion of them together in one homogeneous mass. If the inferior
obtains the ascendency over the other, it will govern with reference only to its own interests
for it will recognize no common interest--and create such a tyranny as this continent has never
yet witnessed. Already the Negroes are influenced by promises of confiscation and plunder.
They are taught to regard as an enemy every white man who has any respect for the rights of
his own race. If this continues it must become worse and worse, until all order will be subverted,
all industry cease, and the fertile fields of the South grow up into a wilderness. Of all the
dangers which our nation has yet encountered, none are equal to those which must result from
the success of the effort now making to Africanize the half of our country.

I would not put considerations of money in competition with justice and right; but the expenses
incident to "reconstruction" under the system adopted by Congress aggravate what I regard as
the intrinsic wrong of the measure itself. It has cost uncounted millions already, and if persisted
in will add largely to the weight of taxation, already too oppressive to be borne without just
complaint, and may finally reduce the Treasury of the nation to a condition of bankruptcy.
We must not delude ourselves. It will require a strong standing army and probably more than
$200,000,000 per annum to maintain the supremacy of Negro governments after they are established.
The sum thus thrown away would, if properly used, form a sinking fund large enough to pay the
whole national debt in less than fifteen years. It is vain to hope that Negroes will maintain
their ascendency themselves. Without military power they are wholly incapable of holding in
subjection the white people of the South.

I submit to the judgment of Congress whether the public credit may not be injuriously affected
by a system of measures like this. With our debt and the vast private interests which are complicated
with it, we can not be too cautious of a policy which might by possibility impair the confidence
of the world in our Government. That confidence can only be retained by carefully inculcating
the principles of justice and honor on the popular mind and by the most scrupulous fidelity
to all our engagements of every sort. Any serious breach of the organic law, persisted in for
a considerable time, can not but create fears for the stability of our institutions. Habitual
violation of prescribed rules, which we bind ourselves to observe, must demoralize the people.
Our only standard of civil duty being set at naught, the sheet anchor of our political morality
is lost, the public conscience swings from its moorings and yields to every impulse of passion
and interest. If we repudiate the Constitution, we will not be expected to care much for mere
pecuniary obligations. The violation of such a pledge as we made on the 22d day of July, 1861,
will assuredly diminish the market value of our other promises. Besides, if we acknowledge
that the national debt was created, not to hold the States in the Union, as the taxpayers were
led to suppose, but to expel them from it and hand them over to be governed by Negroes, the
moral duty to pay it may seem much less clear. I say it may seem so, for I do not admit that
this or any other argument in favor of repudiation can be entertained as sound; but its influence
on some classes of minds may well be apprehended. The financial honor of a great commercial
nation, largely indebted and with a republican form of government administered by agents of
the popular choice, is a thing of such delicate texture and the destruction of it would be
followed by such unspeakable calamity that every true patriot must desire to avoid whatever
might expose it to the slightest danger.

The great interests of the country require immediate relief from these enactments. Business
in the South is paralyzed by a sense of general insecurity, by the terror of confiscation,
and the dread of Negro supremacy. The Southern trade, from which the North would have derived
so great a profit under a government of law, still languishes, and can never be revived until
it ceases to be fettered by the arbitrary power which makes all its operations unsafe. That
rich country--the richest in natural resources the world ever saw--is worse than lost if it
be not soon placed under the protection of a free constitution. Instead of being, as it ought
to be, a source of wealth and power, it will become an intolerable burden upon the rest of
the nation.

Another reason for retracing our steps will doubtless be seen by Congress in the late manifestations
of public opinion upon this subject. We live in a country where the popular will always enforces
obedience to itself, sooner or later. It is vain to think of opposing it with anything short
of legal authority backed by overwhelming force. It can not have escaped your attention that
from the day on which Congress fairly and formally presented the proposition to govern the
Southern States by military force, with a view to the ultimate establishment of Negro supremacy,
every expression of the general sentiment has been more or less adverse to it. The affections
of this generation can not be detached from the institutions of their ancestors. Their determination
to preserve the inheritance of free government in their own hands and transmit it undivided
and unimpaired to their own posterity is too strong to be successfully opposed. Every weaker
passion will disappear before that love of liberty and law for which the American people are
distinguished above all others in the world.

How far the duty of the President "to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution" requires
him to go in opposing an unconstitutional act of Congress is a very serious and important question,
on which I have deliberated much and felt extremely anxious to reach a proper conclusion. Where
an act has been passed according to the forms of the Constitution by the supreme legislative
authority, and is regularly enrolled among the public statutes of the country, Executive resistance
to it, especially in times of high party excitement, would be likely to produce violent collision
between the respective adherents of the two branches of the Government. This would be simply
civil war, and civil war must be resorted to only as the last remedy for the worst of evils.
Whatever might tend to provoke it should be most carefully avoided. A faithful and conscientious
magistrate will concede very much to honest error, and something even to perverse malice, before
he will endanger the public peace; and he will not adopt forcible measures, or such as might
lead to force, as long as those which are peaceable remain open to him or to his constituents.
It is true that cases may occur in which the Executive would be compelled to stand on its rights,
and maintain them regardless of all consequences. If Congress should pass an act which is not
only in palpable conflict with the Constitution, but will certainly, if carried out, produce
immediate and irreparable injury to the organic structure of the Government, and if there be
neither judicial remedy for the wrongs it inflicts nor power in the people to protect themselves
without the official aid of their elected defender--if, for instance, the legislative department
should pass an act even through all the forms of law to abolish a coordinate department of
the Government--in such a case the President must take the high responsibilities of his office
and save the life of the nation at all hazards. The so-called reconstruction acts, though as
plainly unconstitutional as any that can be imagined, were not believed to be within the class
last mentioned. The people were not wholly disarmed of the power of self-defense. In all the
Northern States they still held in their hands the sacred right of the ballot, and it was safe
to believe that in due time they would come to the rescue of their own institutions. It gives
me pleasure to add that the appeal to our common constituents was not taken in vain, and that
my confidence in their wisdom and virtue seems not to have been misplaced.

It is well and publicly known that enormous frauds have been perpetrated on the Treasury and
that colossal fortunes have been made at the public expense. This species of corruption has
increased, is increasing, and if not diminished will soon bring us into total ruin and disgrace.
The public creditors and the taxpayers are alike interested in an honest administration of
the finances, and neither class will long endure the large-handed robberies of the recent past.
For this discreditable state of things there are several causes. Some of the taxes are so laid
as to present an irresistible temptation to evade payment. The great sums which officers may
win by connivance at fraud create a pressure which is more than the virtue of many can withstand,
and there can be no doubt that the open disregard of constitutional obligations avowed by some
of the highest and most influential men in the country has greatly weakened the moral sense
of those who serve in subordinate places. The expenses of the United States, including interest
on the public debt, are more than six times as much as they were seven years ago. To collect
and disburse this vast amount requires careful supervision as well as systematic vigilance.
The system, never perfected, was much disorganized by the "tenure-of-office bill," which has
almost destroyed official accountability. The President may be thoroughly convinced that an
officer is incapable, dishonest, or unfaithful to the Constitution, but under the law which
I have named the utmost he can do is to complain to the Senate and ask the privilege of supplying
his place with a better man. If the Senate be regarded as personally or politically hostile
to the President, it is natural, and not altogether unreasonable, for the officer to expect
that it will take his part as far as possible, restore him to his place, and give him a triumph
over his Executive superior. The officer has other chances of impunity arising from accidental
defects of evidence, the mode of investigating it, and the secrecy of the hearing. It is not
wonderful that official malfeasance should become bold in proportion as the delinquents learn
to think themselves safe. I am entirely persuaded that under such a rule the President can
not perform the great duty assigned to him of seeing the laws faithfully executed, and that
it disables him most especially from enforcing that rigid accountability which is necessary
to the due execution of the revenue laws.

The Constitution invests the President with authority to decide whether a removal should be
made in any given case; the act of Congress declares in substance that he shall only accuse
such as he supposes to be unworthy of their trust. The Constitution makes him sole judge in
the premises, but the statute takes away his jurisdiction, transfers it to the Senate, and
leaves him nothing but the odious and sometimes impracticable duty of becoming a prosecutor.
The prosecution is to be conducted before a tribunal whose members are not, like him, responsible
to the whole people, but to separate constituent bodies, and who may hear his accusation with
great disfavor. The Senate is absolutely without any known standard of decision applicable
to such a case. Its judgment can not be anticipated, for it is not governed by any rule. The
law does not define what shall be deemed good cause for removal. It is impossible even to conjecture
what may or may not be so considered by the Senate. The nature of the subject forbids clear
proof. If the charge be incapacity, what evidence will support it? Fidelity to the Constitution
may be understood or misunderstood in a thousand different ways, and by violent party men,
in violent party times, unfaithfulness to the Constitution may even come to be considered meritorious.
If the officer be accused of dishonesty, how shall it be made out? Will it be inferred from
acts unconnected with public duty, from private history, or from general reputation, or must
the President await the commission of an actual misdemeanor in office? Shall he in the meantime
risk the character and interest of the nation in the hands of men to whom he can not give his
confidence? Must he forbear his complaint until the mischief is done and can not be prevented?
If his zeal in the public service should impel him to anticipate the overt act, must he move
at the peril of being tried himself for the offense of slandering his subordinate? In the present
circumstances of the country someone must be held responsible for official delinquency of every
kind. It is extremely difficult to say where that responsibility should be thrown if it be
not left where it has been placed by the Constitution. But all just men will admit that the
President ought to be entirely relieved from such responsibility if he can not meet it by reason
of restrictions placed by law upon his action.

The unrestricted power of removal from office is a very great one to be trusted even to a magistrate
chosen by the general suffrage of the whole people and accountable directly to them for his
acts. It is undoubtedly liable to abuse, and at some periods of our history perhaps has been
abused. If it be thought desirable and constitutional that it should be so limited as to make
the President merely a common informer against other public agents, he should at least be permitted
to act in that capacity before some open tribunal, independent of party politics, ready to
investigate the merits of every case, furnished with the means of taking evidence, and bound
to decide according to established rules. This would guarantee the safety of the accuser when
he acts in good faith, and at the same time secure the rights of the other party. I speak,
of course, with all proper respect for the present Senate, but it does not seem to me that
any legislative body can be so constituted as to insure its fitness for these functions.

It is not the theory of this Government that public offices are the property of those who hold
them. They are given merely as a trust for the public benefit, sometimes for a fixed period,
sometimes during good behavior, but generally they are liable to be terminated at the pleasure
of the appointing power, which represents the collective majesty and speaks the will of the
people. The forced retention in office of a single dishonest person may work great injury to
the public interests. The danger to the public service comes not from the power to remove,
but from the power to appoint. Therefore it was that the framers of the Constitution left the
power of removal unrestricted, while they gave the Senate a fight to reject all appointments
which in its opinion were not fit to be made. A little reflection on this subject will probably
satisfy all who have the good of the country at heart that our best course is to take the Constitution
for our guide, walk in the path marked out by the founders of the Republic, and obey the rules
made sacred by the observance of our great predecessors.

The present condition of our finances and circulating medium is one to which your early consideration
is invited.

The proportion which the currency of any country should bear to the whole value of the annual
produce circulated by its means is a question upon which political economists have not agreed.
Nor can it be controlled by legislation, but must be left to the irrevocable laws which everywhere
regulate commerce and trade. The circulating medium will ever irresistibly flow to those points
where it is in greatest demand. The law of demand and supply is as unerring as that which regulates
the tides of the ocean; and, indeed, currency, like the tides, has its ebbs and flows throughout
the commercial world.

At the beginning of the rebellion the bank-note circulation of the country amounted to not
much more than $200,000,000; now the circulation of national-bank notes and those known as
"legal-tenders" is nearly seven hundred millions. While it is urged by some that this amount
should be increased, others contend that a decided reduction is absolutely essential to the
best interests of the country. In view of these diverse opinions, it may be well to ascertain
the real value of our paper issues when compared with a metallic or convertible currency. For
this purpose let us inquire how much gold and silver could be purchased by the seven hundred
millions of paper money now in circulation. Probably not more than half the amount of the latter,
showing that when our paper currency is compared with gold and silver its commercial value
is compressed into three hundred and fifty millions. This striking fact makes it the obvious
duty of the Government, as early as may be consistent with the principles of sound political
economy, to take such measures as will enable the holder of its notes and those of the national
banks to convert them without loss into specie or its equivalent. A reduction of our paper
circulating medium need not necessarily follow. This, however, would depend upon the law of
demand and supply, though it should be borne in mind that by making legal-tender and bank notes
convertible into coin or its equivalent their present specie value in the hands of their holders
would be enhanced 100 per cent.

Legislation for the accomplishment of a result so desirable is demanded by the highest public
considerations. The Constitution contemplates that the circulating medium of the country shall
be uniform in quality and value. At the time of the formation of that instrument the country
had just emerged from the War of the Revolution, and was suffering from the effects of a redundant
and worthless paper currency. The sages of that period were anxious to protect their posterity
from the evils that they themselves had experienced. Hence in providing a circulating medium
they conferred upon Congress the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof, at the
same time prohibiting the States from making anything but gold and silver a tender in payment
of debts.

The anomalous condition of our currency is in striking contrast with that which was originally
designed. Our circulation now embraces, first, notes of the national banks, which are made
receivable for all dues to the Government, excluding imposts, and by all its creditors, excepting
in payment of interest upon its bonds and the securities themselves; second, legal-tender notes,
issued by the United States, and which the law requires shall be received as well in payment
of all debts between citizens as of all Government dues, excepting imposts; and, third, gold
and silver coin. By the operation of our present system of finance, however, the metallic currency,
when collected, is reserved only for one class of Government creditors, who, holding its bonds,
semiannually receive their interest in coin from the National Treasury. They are thus made
to occupy an invidious position, which may be used to strengthen the arguments of those who
would bring into disrepute the obligations of the nation. In the payment of all its debts the
plighted faith of the Government should be inviolably maintained. But while it acts with fidelity
toward the bondholder who loaned his money that the integrity of the Union might be preserved,
it should at the same time observe good faith with the great masses of the people, who, having
rescued the Union from the perils of rebellion, now bear the burdens of taxation, that the
Government may be able to fulfill its engagements. There is no reason which will be accepted
as satisfactory by the people why those who defend us on the land and protect us on the sea;
the pensioner upon the gratitude of the nation, bearing the scars and wounds received while
in its service; the public servants in the various Departments of the Government; the farmer
who supplies the soldiers of the Army and the sailors of the Navy; the artisan who toils in
the nation's workshops, or the mechanics and laborers who build its edifices and construct
its forts and vessels of war, should, in payment of their just and hard-earned dues, receive
depreciated paper, while another class of their countrymen, no more deserving, are paid in
coin of gold and silver. Equal and exact justice requires that all the creditors of the Government
should be paid in a currency possessing a uniform value. This can only be accomplished by the
restoration of the currency to the standard established by the Constitution; and by this means
we would remove a discrimination which may, if it has not already done so, create a prejudice
that may become deep rooted and widespread and imperil the national credit.

The feasibility of making our currency correspond with the constitutional standard may be seen
by reference to a few facts derived from our commercial statistics.

The production of precious metals in the United States from 1849 to 1857, inclusive, amounted
to $579,000,000; from 1858 to 1860, inclusive, to $137,500,000, and from 1861 to 1867, inclusive,
to $457,500,000--making the grand aggregate of products since 1849 $1,174,000,000. The amount
of specie coined from 1849 to 1857 inclusive, was $439,000,000; from 1858 to 1860, inclusive,
$125,000,000, and from 1861 to 1867, inclusive, $310,000,000--making the total coinage since
1849 $874,000,000. From 1849 to 1857, inclusive, the net exports of specie amounted to $271,000,000;
from 1858 to 1860, inclusive, to $148,000,000, and from 1861 to 1867, inclusive, $322,000,000--making
the aggregate of net exports since 1849 $741,000,000. These figures show an excess of product
over net exports of $433,000,000. There are in the Treasury $111,000,000 in coin, something
more than $40,000,000 in circulation on the Pacific Coast, and a few millions in the national
and other banks--in all about $160,000,000. This, however, taking into account the specie in
the country prior to 1849 leaves more than $300,000,000 which have not been accounted for by
exportation, and therefore may yet remain in the country.

These are important facts and show how completely the inferior currency will supersede the
better, forcing it from circulation among the masses and causing it to be exported as a mere
article of trade, to add to the money capital of foreign lands. They show the necessity of
retiring our paper money, that the return of gold and silver to the avenues of trade may be
invited and a demand created which will cause the retention at home of at least so much of
the productions of our rich and inexhaustible gold-bearing fields as may be sufficient for
purposes of circulation. It is unreasonable to expect a return to a sound currency so long
as the Government by continuing to issue irredeemable notes fills the channels of circulation
with depreciated paper. Notwithstanding a coinage by our mints, since 1849, of $874,000,000,
the people are now strangers to the currency which was designed for their use and benefit,
and specimens of the precious metals bearing the national device are seldom seen, except when
produced to gratify the interest excited by their novelty. If depreciated paper is to be continued
as the permanent currency of the country, and all our coin is to become a mere article of traffic
and speculation, to the enhancement in price of all that is indispensable to the comfort of
the people, it would be wise economy to abolish our mints thus saving the nation the care and
expense incident to such establishments, and let all our precious metals be exported in bullion.
The time has come, however, when the Government and national banks should be required to take
the most efficient steps and make all necessary arrangements for a resumption of specie payments
at the earliest practicable period. Specie payments having been once resumed by the Government
and banks, all notes or bills of paper issued by either of a less denomination than $20 should
by law be excluded from circulation, so that the people may have the benefit and convenience
of a gold and silver currency which in all their business transactions will be uniform in value
at home and abroad. Every man of property or industry, every man who desires to preserve what
he honestly possesses or to obtain what he can honestly earn, has a direct interest in maintaining
a safe circulating medium--such a medium as shall be real and substantial, not liable to vibrate
with opinions, not subject to be blown up or blown down by the breath of speculation, but to
be made stable and secure. A disordered currency is one of the greatest political evils. It
undermines the virtues necessary for the support of the social system and encourages propensities
destructive of its happiness; it wars against industry, frugality, and economy, and it fosters
the evil spirits of extravagance and speculation. It has been asserted by one of our profound
and most gifted statesmen that--Of all the contrivances for cheating the laboring classes of
mankind, none has been more effectual than that which deludes them with paper money. This is
the most effectual of inventions to fertilize the rich man's fields by the sweat of the poor
man's brow. Ordinary tyranny, oppression, excessive taxation--these bear lightly on the happiness
of the mass of the community compared with a fraudulent currency and the robberies committed
by depreciated paper. Our own history has recorded for our instruction enough, and more than
enough, of the demoralizing tendency, the injustice, and the intolerable oppression on the
virtuous and well disposed of a degraded paper currency authorized by law or in any way countenanced
by government. It is one of the most successful devices, in times of peace or war, expansions
or revulsions, to accomplish the transfer of all the precious metals from the great mass of
the people into the hands of the few, where they are hoarded in secret places or deposited
in strong boxes under bolts and bars, while the people are left to endure all the inconvenience,
sacrifice, and demoralization resulting from the use of a depreciated and worthless paper money.

The condition of our finances and the operations of our revenue system are set forth and fully
explained in the able and instructive report of the Secretary of the Treasury. On the 30th
of June, 1866, the public debt amounted to $2,783,425,879; on the 30th of June last it was
$2,692,199,215, showing a reduction during the fiscal year of $91,226,664. During the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1867, the receipts were $490,634,010 and the expenditures $346,729,129,
leaving an available surplus of $143,904,880. It is estimated that the receipts for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1868, will be $417,161,928 and that the expenditures will reach the sum
of $393,269,226, leaving in the Treasury a surplus of $23,892,702. For the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1869, it is estimated that the receipts will amount to $381,000,000 and that the expenditures
will be $372,000,000, showing an excess of $9,000,000 in favor of the Government.

The attention of Congress is earnestly invited to the necessity of a thorough revision of our
revenue system. Taxation would not then fall unduly on the man of moderate means; and while
none would be entirely exempt from assessment, all, in proportion to their pecuniary abilities,
would contribute toward the support of the State. A modification of the internal-revenue system,
by a large reduction in the number of articles now subject to tax, would be followed by results
equally advantageous to the citizen and the Government. It would render the execution of the
law less expensive and more certain, remove obstructions to industry, lessen the temptations
to evade the law, diminish the violations and frauds perpetrated upon its provisions, make
its operations less inquisitorial, and greatly reduce in numbers the army of taxgatherers created
by the system, who "take from the mouth of honest labor the bread it has earned." Retrenchment,
reform, and economy should be carried into every branch of the public service, that the expenditures
of the Government may be reduced and the people relieved from oppressive taxation; a sound
currency should be restored, and the public faith in regard to the national debt sacredly observed.
The accomplishment of these important results, together with the restoration of the Union of
the States upon the principles of the Constitution, would inspire confidence at home and abroad
in the stability of our institutions and bring to the nation prosperity, peace, and good will.

The report of the Secretary of War ad interim exhibits the operations of the Army and of the
several bureaus of the War Department. The aggregate strength of our military force on the
30th of September last was 56,315. The total estimate for military appropriations is $77,124,707,
including a deficiency in last year's appropriation of $13,600,000. The payments at the Treasury
on account of the service of the War Department from January 1 to October 29, 1867--a period
of ten months--amounted to $109,807,000. The expenses of the military establishment, as well
as the numbers of the Army, are now three times as great as they have ever been in time of
peace, while the discretionary, power is vested in the Executive to add millions to this expenditure
by an increase of the Army to the maximum strength allowed by the law.

The comprehensive report of the Secretary of the Interior furnishes interesting information
in reference to the important branches of the public service connected with his Department.
The menacing attitude of some of the warlike bands of Indians inhabiting the district of country
between the Arkansas and Platte rivers and portions of Dakota Territory required the presence
of a large military force in that region. Instigated by real or imaginary grievances, the Indians
occasionally committed acts of barbarous violence upon emigrants and our frontier settlements;
but a general Indian war has been providentially averted. The commissioners under the act of
20th July, 1867, were invested with full power to adjust existing difficulties, negotiate treaties
with the disaffected bands, and select for them reservations remote from the traveled routes
between the Mississippi and the Pacific. They entered without delay upon the execution of their
trust, but have not yet made any official report of their proceedings. It is of vital importance
that our distant Territories should be exempt from Indian outbreaks, and that the construction
of the Pacific Railroad, an object of national importance, should not be interrupted by hostile
tribes. These objects, as well as the material interests and the moral and intellectual improvement
of the Indians, can be most effectually secured by concentrating them upon portions of country
set apart for their exclusive use and located at points remote from our highways and encroaching
white settlements.

Since the commencement of the second session of the Thirty-ninth Congress 510 miles of road
have been constructed on the main line and branches of the Pacific Railway. The line from Omaha
is rapidly approaching the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains, while the terminus of the last
section of constructed road in California, accepted by the Government on the 24th day of October
last, was but 11 miles distant from the summit of the Sierra Nevada. The remarkable energy
evinced by the companies offers the strongest assurance that the completion of the road from
Sacramento to Omaha will not be long deferred.

During the last fiscal year 7,041,114 acres of public land were disposed of, and the cash receipts
from sales and fees exceeded by one-half million dollars the sum realized from those sources
during the preceding year. The amount paid to pensioners, including expenses of disbursements,
was $18,619,956, and 36,482 names were added to the rolls. The entire number of pensioners
on the 30th of June last was 155,474. Eleven thousand six hundred and fifty-five patents and
designs were issued during the year ending September 30, 1867, and at that date the balance
in the Treasury to the credit of the patent fund was $286,607.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy states that we have seven squadrons actively and judiciously
employed, under efficient and able commanders, in protecting the persons and property of American
citizens, maintaining the dignity and power of the Government, and promoting the commerce and
business interests of our countrymen in every part of the world. Of the 238 vessels composing
the present Navy of the United States, 56, carrying 507 guns, are in squadron service. During
the year the number of vessels in commission has been reduced 12, and there are 13 less on
squadron duty than there were at the date of the last report. A large number of vessels were
commenced and in the course of construction when the war terminated, and although Congress
had made the necessary appropriations for their completion, the Department has either suspended
work upon them or limited the slow completion of the steam vessels, so as to meet the contracts
for machinery made with private establishments. The total expenditures of the Navy Department
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1867, were $31,034,011. No appropriations have been made
or required since the close of the war for the construction and repair of vessels, for steam
machinery, ordnance, provisions and clothing, fuel, hemp, etc., the balances under these several
heads having been more than sufficient for current expenditures. It should also be stated to
the credit of the Department that, besides asking no appropriations for the above objects for
the last two years, the Secretary of the Navy, on the 30th of September last, in accordance
with the act of May 1, 1820, requested the Secretary of the Treasury to carry to the surplus
fund the sum of $65,000.000, being the amount received from the sales of vessels and other
war property and the remnants of former appropriations.

The report of the Postmaster-General shows the business of the Post-Office Department and the
condition of the postal service in a very favorable light, and the attention of Congress is
called to its practical recommendations. The receipts of the Department for the year ending
June 30, 1867, including all special appropriations for sea and land service and for free mail
matter, were $19,978,693. The expenditures for all purposes were $19,235,483, leaving an unexpended
balance in favor of the Department of $743,210, which can be applied toward the expenses of
the Department for the current year. The increase of postal revenue, independent of specific
appropriations, for the year 1867 over that of 1866 was $850,040. The increase of revenue from
the sale of stamps and stamped envelopes was $783,404. The increase of expenditures for 1867
over those of the previous year was owing chiefly to the extension of the land and ocean mail
service. During the past year new postal conventions have been ratified and exchanged with
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
North German Union, Italy, and the colonial government at Hong Kong, reducing very largely
the rates of ocean and land postages to and from and within those countries.

The report of the Acting Commissioner of Agriculture concisely presents the condition, wants,
and progress of an interest eminently worthy the fostering care of Congress, and exhibits a
large measure of useful results achieved during the year to which it refers.

The reestablishment of peace at home and the resumption of extended trade, travel, and commerce
abroad have served to increase the number and variety of questions in the Department for Foreign
Affairs. None of these questions, however, have seriously disturbed our relations with other
states.

The Republic of Mexico, having been relieved from foreign intervention, is earnestly engaged
in efforts to reestablish her constitutional system of government. A good understanding continues
to exist between our Government and the Republics of Hayti and San Domingo, and our cordial
relations with the Central and South American States remain unchanged. The tender, made in
conformity with a resolution of Congress, of the good offices of the Government with a view
to an amicable adjustment of peace between Brazil and her allies on one side and Paraguay on
the other, and between Chile and her allies on the one side and Spain on the other, though
kindly received, has in neither case been fully accepted by the belligerents. The war in the
valley of the Parana is still vigorously maintained. On the other hand, actual hostilities
between the Pacific States and Spain have been more than a year suspended. I shall, on any
proper occasion that may occur, renew the conciliatory recommendations which have been already
made. Brazil, with enlightened sagacity and comprehensive statesmanship, has opened the great
channels of the Amazon and its tributaries to universal commerce. One thing more seems needful
to assure a rapid and cheering progress in South America. I refer to those peaceful habits
without which states and nations can not in this age well expect material prosperity or social
advancement.

The Exposition of Universal Industry at Paris has passed, and seems to have fully realized
the high expectations of the French Government. If due allowance be made for the recent political
derangement of industry here, the part which the United States has borne in this exhibition
of invention and art may be regarded with very high satisfaction. During the exposition a conference
was held of delegates from several nations, the United States being one, in which the inconveniences
of commerce and social intercourse resulting from the diverse standards of money value were
very fully discussed, and plans were developed for establishing by universal consent a common
principle for the coinage of gold. These conferences are expected to be renewed, with the attendance
of many foreign states not hitherto represented. A report of these interesting proceedings
will be submitted to Congress, which will, no doubt, justly appreciate the great object and
be ready to adopt any measure which may tend to facilitate its ultimate accomplishment.

On the 25th of February, 1862, Congress declared by law that Treasury notes, without interest,
authorized by that act should be legal tender in payment of all debts, public and private,
within the United States. An annual remittance of $30,000, less stipulated expenses, accrues
to claimants under the convention made with Spain in 1834. These remittances, since the passage
of that act, have been paid in such notes. The claimants insist that the Government ought to
require payment in coin. The subject may be deemed worthy of your attention.

No arrangement has yet been reached for the settlement of our claims for British depredations
upon the commerce of the United States. I have felt it my duty to decline the proposition of
arbitration made by Her Majesty's Government, because it has hitherto been accompanied by reservations
and limitations incompatible with the rights, interest, and honor of our country. It is not
to be apprehended that Great Britain will persist in her refusal to satisfy these just and
reasonable claims, which involve the sacred principle of nonintervention--a principle henceforth
not more important to the United States than to all other commercial nations.

The West India islands were settled and colonized by European States simultaneously with the
settlement and colonization of the American continent. Most of the colonies planted here became
independent nations in the close of the last and the beginning of the present century. Our
own country embraces communities which at one period were colonies of Great Britain, France,
Spain, Holland, Sweden, and Russia. The people in the West Indies, with the exception of those
of the island of Hayti, have neither attained nor aspired to independence, nor have they become
prepared for self-defense. Although possessing considerable commercial value, they have been
held by the several European States which colonized or at some time conquered them, chiefly
for purposes of military and naval strategy in carrying out European policy and designs in
regard to this continent. In our Revolutionary War ports and harbors in the West India islands
were used by our enemy, to the great injury and embarrassment of the United States. We had
the same experience in our second war with Great Britain. The same European policy for a long
time excluded us even from trade with the West Indies, while we were at peace with all nations.
In our recent civil war the rebels and their piratical and blockade-breaking allies found facilities
in the same ports for the work, which they too successfully accomplished, of injuring and devastating
the commerce which we are now engaged in rebuilding. We labored especially under this disadvantage,
that European steam vessels employed by our enemies found friendly shelter, protection, and
supplies in West Indian ports, while our naval operations were necessarily carried on from
our own distant shores. There was then a universal feeling of the want of an advanced naval
outpost between the Atlantic coast and Europe. The duty of obtaining such an outpost peacefully
and lawfully, while neither doing nor menacing injury to other states, earnestly engaged the
attention of the executive department before the close of the war, and it has not been lost
sight of since that time. A not entirely dissimilar naval want revealed itself during the same
period on the Pacific coast. The required foothold there was fortunately secured by our late
treaty with the Emperor of Russia, and it now seems imperative that the more obvious necessities
of the Atlantic coast should not be less carefully provided for. A good and convenient port
and harbor, capable of easy defense, will supply that want. With the possession of such a station
by the United States, neither we nor any other American nation need longer apprehend injury
or offense from any transatlantic enemy. I agree with our early statesmen that the West Indies
naturally gravitate to, and may be expected ultimately to be absorbed by, the continental States,
including our own. I agree with them also that it is wise to leave the question of such absorption
to this process of natural political gravitation. The islands of St. Thomas and St. John, which
constitute a part of the group called the Virgin Islands, seemed to offer us advantages immediately
desirable, while their acquisition could be secured in harmony with the principles to which
I have alluded. A treaty has therefore been concluded with the King of Denmark for the cession
of those islands, and will be submitted to the Senate for consideration.

It will hardly be necessary to call the attention of Congress to the subject of providing for
the payment to Russia of the sum stipulated in the treaty for the cession of Alaska. Possession
having been formally delivered to our commissioner, the territory remains for the present in
care of a military force, awaiting such civil organization as shall be directed by Congress.

The annexation of many small German States to Prussia and the reorganization of that country
under a new and liberal constitution have induced me to renew the effort to obtain a just and
prompt settlement of the long-vexed question concerning the claims of foreign states for military
service from their subjects naturalized in the United States.

In connection with this subject the attention of Congress is respectfully called to a singular
and embarrassing conflict of laws. The executive department of this Government has hitherto
uniformly held, as it now holds, that naturalization in conformity with the Constitution and
laws of the United States absolves the recipient from his native allegiance. The courts of
Great Britain hold that allegiance to the British Crown is indefensible, and is not absolved
by our laws of naturalization. British judges cite courts and law authorities of the United
States in support of that theory against the position held by the executive authority of the
United States. This conflict perplexes the public mind concerning the rights of naturalized
citizens and impairs the national authority abroad. I called attention to this subject in my
last annual message, and now again respectfully appeal to Congress to declare the national
will unmistakably upon this important question.

The abuse of our laws by the clandestine prosecution of the African slave trade from American
ports or by American citizens has altogether ceased, and under existing circumstances no apprehensions
of its renewal in this part of the world are entertained. Under these circumstances it becomes
a question whether we shall not propose to Her Majesty's Government a suspension or discontinuance
of the stipulations for maintaining a naval force for the suppression of that trade.

***

State of the Union Address Andrew Johnson December 9, 1868

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Upon the reassembling of Congress it again becomes my duty to call your attention to the state
of the Union and to its continued disorganized condition under the various laws which have
been passed upon the subject of reconstruction.

It may be safely assumed as an axiom in the government of states that the greatest wrongs inflicted
upon a people are caused by unjust and arbitrary legislation, or by the unrelenting decrees
of despotic rulers, and that the timely revocation of injurious and oppressive measures is
the greatest good that can be conferred upon a nation. The legislator or ruler who has the
wisdom and magnanimity to retrace his steps when convinced of error will sooner or later be
rewarded with the respect and gratitude of an intelligent and patriotic people.

Our own history, although embracing a period less than a century, affords abundant proof that
most, if not all, of our domestic troubles are directly traceable to violations of the organic
law and excessive legislation. The most striking illustrations of this fact are furnished by
the enactments of the past three years upon the question of reconstruction. After a fair trial
they have substantially failed and proved pernicious in their results, and there seems to be
no good reason why they should longer remain upon the statute book. States to which the Constitution
guarantees a republican form of government have been reduced to military dependencies in each
of which the people have been made subject to the arbitrary will of the commanding general.
Although the Constitution requires that each State shall be represented in Congress, Virginia,
Mississippi, and Texas are yet excluded from the two Houses, and, contrary to the express provisions
of that instrument were denied participation in the recent election for a President and Vice-President
of the United States. The attempt to place the white population under the domination of persons
of color in the South has impaired, if not destroyed, the kindly relations that had previously
existed between them: and mutual distrust has engendered a feeling of animosity which leading
in some instances to collision and bloodshed, has prevented that cooperation between the two
races so essential to the success of industrial enterprise in the Southern States. Nor have
the inhabitants of those States alone suffered from the disturbed condition of affairs growing
out of these Congressional enactments. The entire Union has been agitated by grave apprehensions
of troubles which might again involve the peace of the nation; its interests have been injuriously
affected by the derangement of business and labor, and the consequent want of prosperity throughout
that portion of the country.

The Federal Constitution--the magna charta of American rights, under whose wise and salutary
provisions we have successfully conducted all our domestic and foreign affairs, sustained ourselves
in peace and in war, and become a great nation among the powers of the earth--must assuredly
be now adequate to the settlement of questions growing out of the civil war, waged alone for
its vindication. This great fact is made most manifest by the condition of the country when
Congress assembled in the month of December, 1865. Civil strife had ceased, the spirit of rebellion
had spent its entire force, in the Southern States the people had warmed into national life,
and throughout the whole country a healthy reaction in public sentiment had taken place. By
the application of the simple yet effective provisions of the Constitution the executive department,
with the voluntary aid of the States, had brought the work of restoration as near completion
as was within the scope of its authority, and the nation was encouraged by the prospect of
an early and satisfactory adjustment of all its difficulties. Congress, however, intervened,
and, refusing to perfect the work so nearly consummated, declined to admit members from the
unrepresented States, adopted a series of measures which arrested the progress of restoration,
frustrated all that had been so successfully accomplished, and, after three years of agitation
and strife, has left the country further from the attainment of union and fraternal feeling
than at the inception of the Congressional plan of reconstruction. It needs no argument to
show that legislation which has produced such baneful consequences should be abrogated, or
else made to conform to the genuine principles of republican government.

Under the influence of party passion and sectional prejudice, other acts have been passed not
warranted by the Constitution. Congress has already been made familiar with my views respecting
the "tenure-of-office bill." Experience has proved that its repeal is demanded by the best
interests of the country, and that while it remains in force the President can not enjoin that
rigid accountability of public officers so essential to an honest and efficient execution of
the laws. Its revocation would enable the executive department to exercise the power of appointment
and removal in accordance with the original design of the Federal Constitution.

The act of March 2, 1867, making appropriations for the support of the Army for the year ending
June 30, 1868, and for other purposes, contains provisions which interfere with the President's
constitutional functions as Commander in Chief of the Army and deny to States of the Union
the right to protect themselves by means of their own militia. These provisions should be at
once annulled; for while the first might, in times of great emergency, seriously embarrass
the Executive in efforts to employ and direct the common strength of the nation for its protection
and preservation, the other is contrary to the express declaration of the Constitution that
"a well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the
people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed."

It is believed that the repeal of all such laws would be accepted by the American people as
at least a partial return to the fundamental principles of the Government, and an indication
that hereafter the Constitution is to be made the nation's safe and unerring guide. They can
be productive of no permanent benefit to the country, and should not be permitted to stand
as so many monuments of the deficient wisdom which has characterized our recent legislation.

The condition of our finances demands the early and earnest consideration of Congress. Compared
with the growth of our population, the public expenditures have reached an amount unprecedented
in our history.

The population of the United States in 1790 was nearly 4,000,000 people. Increasing each decade
about 33 per cent, it reached in 1860 31,000,000, an increase of 700 per cent on the population
in 1790. In 1869 it is estimated that it will reach 38,000,000, or an increase of 868 per cent
in seventy-nine years.

The annual expenditures of the Federal Government in 1791 were $4,200,000; in 1820, $18.200,000;
in 1850, forty-one millions; in 1860, sixty-three millions; in 1865, nearly thirteen hundred
millions; and in 1869 it is estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury, in his last annual
report, that they will be three hundred and seventy-two millions.

By comparing the public disbursements of 1869, as estimated, with those of 1791, it will be
seen that the increase of expenditure since the beginning of the Government has been 8,618
per cent, while the increase of the population for the same period was only 868 per cent. Again,
the expenses of the Government in 1860, the year of peace immediately preceding the war, were
only sixty--three millions, while in 1869, the year of peace three years after the war it is
estimated they will be three hundred and seventy-two millions, an increase of 489 per cent,
while the increase of population was only 21 per cent for the same period.

These statistics further show that in 1791 the annual national expenses, compared with the
population, were little more than $1 per capita, and in 1860 but $2 per capita; while in 1869
they will reach the extravagant sum of $9.78 per capita.

It will be observed that all these statements refer to and exhibit the disbursements of peace
periods. It may, therefore, be of interest to compare the expenditures of the three war periods--the
war with Great Britain, the Mexican War, and the War of the Rebellion.

In 1814 the annual expenses incident to the War of 1812 reached their highest amount--about
thirty-one millions--while our population slightly exceeded 8,000,000, showing an expenditure
of only $3.80 per capita. In 1847 the expenditures growing out of the war with Mexico reached
fifty-five millions, and the population about 21,000,000, giving only $2.60 per capita for
the war expenses of that year. In 1865 the expenditures called for by the rebellion reached
the vast amount of twelve hundred and ninety millions, which, compared with a population of
34,000,000, gives $38.20 per capita.

From the 4th day of March, 1789, to the 30th of June, 1861, the entire expenditures of the
Government were $1,700,000,000. During that period we were engaged in wars with Great Britain
and Mexico, and were involved in hostilities with powerful Indian tribes; Louisiana was purchased
from France at a cost of $15,000,000; Florida was ceded to us by Spain for five millions; California
was acquired from Mexico for fifteen millions, and the territory of New Mexico was obtained
from Texas for the sum of ten millions. Early in 1861 the War of the Rebellion commenced; and
from the 1st of July of that year to the 30th of June, 1865, the public expenditures reached
the enormous aggregate of thirty-three hundred millions. Three years of peace have intervened,
and during that time the disbursements of the Government have successively been five hundred
and twenty millions, three hundred and forty-six millions, and three hundred and ninety-three
millions. Adding to these amounts three hundred and seventy-two millions, estimated as necessary
for the fiscal year ending the 30th of June, 1869, we obtain a total expenditure of $1,600,000,000
during the four years immediately succeeding the war, or nearly as much as was expended during
the seventy-two years that preceded the rebellion and embraced the extraordinary expenditures
already named.

These startling facts clearly illustrate the necessity of retrenchment in all branches of the
public service. Abuses which were tolerated during the war for the preservation of the nation
will not be endured by the people, now that profound peace prevails. The receipts from internal
revenues and customs have during the past three years gradually diminished, and the continuance
of useless and extravagant expenditures will involve us in national bankruptcy, or else make
inevitable an increase of taxes already too onerous and in many respects obnoxious on account
of their inquisitorial character. One hundred millions annually are expended for the military
force, a large portion of which is employed in the execution of laws both unnecessary and unconstitutional;
one hundred and fifty millions are required each year to pay the interest on the public debt:
an army of taxgatherers impoverishes the nation, and public agents, placed by Congress beyond
the control of the Executive, divert from their legitimate purposes large sums of money which
they collect from the people in the name of the Government. Judicious legislation and prudent
economy can alone remedy defects and avert evils which, if suffered to exist, can not fail
to diminish confidence in the public councils and weaken the attachment and respect of the
people toward their political institutions. Without proper care the small balance which it
is estimated will remain in the Treasury at the close of the present fiscal year will not be
realized, and additional millions be added to a debt which is now enumerated by billions. It
is estimated that the receipts during the present fiscal year, ending June 30, 1869, will be
$341,392,868 and the expenditures $336,152,470, showing a small balance of $5,240,398 in favor
of the Government. For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1870, it is estimated that the receipts
will amount to $327,000,000 and the expenditures to $303,000,000, leaving an estimated surplus
of $24,000,000.

It becomes proper in this connection to make a brief reference to our public indebtedness,
which has accumulated with such alarming rapidity and assumed such colossal proportions.

In 1789, when the Government commenced operations under the Federal Constitution, it was burdened
with an indebtedness of $75,000,000, created during the War of the Revolution. This amount
had been reduced to $45,000,000 when, in 1812, war was declared against Great Britain. The
three years' struggle that followed largely increased the national obligations, and in 1816
they had attained the sum of $127,000,000. Wise and economical legislation, however, enabled
the Government to pay the entire amount within a period of twenty years, and the extinguishment
of the national debt filled the land with rejoicing and was one of the great events of President
Jackson's Administration. After its redemption a large fund remained in the Treasury, which
was deposited for safe-keeping with the several States. on condition that it should be returned
when required by the public wants. In 1849--the year after the termination of an expensive
war with Mexico--we found ourselves involved in a debt of $64,000,000; and this was the amount
owed by the Government in 1860, just prior to the outbreak of the rebellion. In the spring
of 1861 our civil war commenced. Each year of its continuance made an enormous addition to
the debt: and when in the spring of 1865, the nation successfully emerged from the conflict,
the obligations of the Government had reached the immense sum of $2.873,992,909. The Secretary
of the Treasury shows that on the 1st day of November, 1867, this amount had been reduced to
$2,491,504,450; but at the same time his report exhibits an increase during the past year of
$35,625,102, for the debt on the 1st day of November last is stated to have been $2,527,129,552.
It is estimated by the Secretary that the returns for the past month will add to our liabilities
the further sum of $11,000,000, making a total increase during thirteen months of $46,500,000.

In my message to Congress December 4, 1865, it was suggested that a policy should be devised
which, without being oppressive to the people, would at once begin to effect a reduction of
the debt, and, if persisted in, discharge it fully within a definite number of years. The Secretary
of the Treasury forcibly recommends legislation of this character, and justly urges that the
longer it is deferred the more difficult must become its accomplishment. We should follow the
wise precedents established in 1789 and 1816, and without further delay make provision for
the payment of our obligations at as early a period as may be practicable. The fruits of their
labors should be enjoyed by our citizens rather than used to build up and sustain moneyed monopolies
in our own and other lands. Our foreign debt is already computed by the Secretary of the Treasury
at $850,000,000; citizens of foreign countries receive interest upon a large portion of our
securities, and American taxpayers are made to contribute large sums for their support. The
idea that such a debt is to become permanent should be at all times discarded as involving
taxation too heavy to be borne, and payment once in every sixteen years, at the present rate
of interest, of an amount equal to the original sum. This vast debt, if permitted to become
permanent and increasing, must eventually be gathered into the hands of a few, and enable them
to exert a dangerous and controlling power in the affairs of the Government. The borrowers
would become servants to the lenders, the lenders the masters of the people. We now pride ourselves
upon having given freedom to 4,000,000 of the colored race; it will then be our shame that
40,000,000 of people, by their own toleration of usurpation and profligacy, have suffered themselves
to become enslaved, and merely exchanged slave owners for new taskmasters in the shape of bondholders
and taxgatherers. Besides, permanent debts pertain to monarchical governments, and, tending
to monopolies, perpetuities, and class legislation, are totally irreconcilable with free institutions
introduced into our republican system, they would gradually but surely sap its foundations,
eventually subvert our governmental fabric, and erect upon its ruins a moneyed aristocracy.
It is our sacred duty to transmit unimpaired to our posterity the blessings of liberty which
were bequeathed to us by the founders of the Republic. and by our example teach those who are
to follow us carefully to avoid the dangers which threaten a free and independent people.

Various plans have been proposed for the payment of the public debt. However they may have
varied as to the time and mode in which it should be redeemed, there seems to be a general
concurrence as to the propriety and justness of a reduction in the present rate of interest.
The Secretary of the Treasury in his report recommends 5 per cent; Congress, in a bill passed
prior to adjournment on the 27th of July last, agreed upon 4 and 4 1/2 per cent; while by many
3 per cent has been held to be an amply sufficient return for the investment. The general impression
as to the exorbitancy of the existing rate of interest has led to an inquiry in the public
mind respecting the consideration which the Government has actually received for its bonds,
and the conclusion is becoming prevalent that the amount which it obtained was in real money
three or four hundred per cent less than the obligations which it issued in return. It can
not be denied that we are paying an extravagant percentage for the use of the money borrowed,
which was paper currency, greatly depreciated below the value of coin. This fact is made apparent
when we consider that bondholders receive from the Treasury upon each dollar they own in Government
securities 6 per cent in gold, which is nearly or quite equal to 9 per cent in currency; that
the bonds are then converted into capital for the national banks, upon which those institutions
issue their circulation, bearing 6 per cent interest; and that they are exempt from taxation
by the Government and the States, and thereby enhanced 2 per cent in the hands of the holders.
We thus have an aggregate of 17 per cent which may be received upon each dollar by the owners
of Government securities. A system that produces such results is justly regarded as favoring
a few at the expense of the many, and has led to the further inquiry whether our bondholders,
in view of the large profits which they have enjoyed, would themselves be averse to a settlement
of our indebtedness upon a plan which would yield them a fair remuneration and at the same
time be just to the taxpayers of the nation. Our national credit should be sacredly observed,
but in making provision for our creditors we should not forget what is due to the masses of
the people. It may be assumed that the holders of our securities have already received upon
their bonds a larger amount than their original investment, measured by a gold standard. Upon
this statement of facts it would seem but just and equitable that the 6 per cent interest now
paid by the Government should be applied to the reduction of the principal in semiannual installments,
which in sixteen years and eight months would liquidate the entire national debt. Six per cent
in gold would at present rates be equal to 9 per cent in currency, and equivalent to the payment
of the debt one and a half times in a fraction less than seventeen years. This, in connection
with all the other advantages derived from their investment, would afford to the public creditors
a fair and liberal compensation for the use of their capital, and with this they should be
satisfied. The lessons of the past admonish the lender that it is not well to be over-anxious
in exacting from the borrower rigid compliance with the letter of the bond.

If provision be made for the payment of the indebtedness of the Government in the manner suggested,
our nation will rapidly recover its wonted prosperity. Its interests require that some measure
should be taken to release the large amount of capital invested in the securities of the Government.
It is not now merely unproductive, but in taxation annually consumes $150,000,000, which would
otherwise be used by our enterprising people in adding to the wealth of the nation. Our commerce,
which at one time successfully rivaled that of the great maritime powers, has rapidly diminished,
and our industrial interests are in a depressed and languishing condition. The development
of our inexhaustible resources is checked, and the fertile fields of the South are becoming
waste for want of means to till them. With the release of capital, new life would be infused
into the paralyzed energies of our people and activity and vigor imparted to every branch of
industry. Our people need encouragement in their efforts to recover from the effects of the
rebellion and of injudicious legislation, and it should be the aim of the Government to stimulate
them by the prospect of an early release from the burdens which impede their prosperity. If
we can not take the burdens from their shoulders, we should at least manifest a willingness
to help to bear them.

In referring to the condition of the circulating medium, I shall merely reiterate substantially
that portion of my last annual message which relates to that subject.

The aggregate product of precious metals in the United States from 1849 to 1867 amounted to
$1,174,000,000, while for the same period the net exports of specie were $741,000,000. This
shows an excess of product over net exports of $433,000,000. There are in the Treasury $103,407,985
in coin; in circulation in the States on the Pacific Coast about $40,000,000, and a few millions
in the national and other banks--in all less than $160,000,000. Let specie payments once be
earnestly inaugurated by the Government and banks, and the value of the paper circulation would
directly approximate a specie standard.

The Secretary of the Interior in his report gives valuable information in reference to the
interests confided to the supervision of his Department, and reviews the operations of the
Land Office, Pension Office, Patent Office, and Indian Bureau.

During the fiscal year ending June 30. 1868, 6,655,700 acres of public land were disposed of.
The entire cash receipts of the General Land Office for the same period were $1,632,745, being
greater by $284,883 than the amount realized from the same sources during the previous year.
The entries under the homestead law cover 2,328,923 acres, nearly one-fourth of which was taken
under the act of June 21, 1866, which applies only to the States of Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana,
Arkansas, and Florida.

On the 30th of June, 1868, 169,643 names were borne on the pension rolls, and during the year
ending on that day the total amount paid for pensions, including the expenses of disbursement,
was $24,010,982, being $5,391,025 greater than that expended for like purposes during the preceding
year.

During the year ending the 30th of September last the expenses of the Patent Office exceeded
the receipts by $171, and, including reissues and designs, 14,153 patents were issued.

Treaties with various Indian tribes have been concluded, and will be submitted to the Senate
for its constitutional action. I cordially sanction the stipulations which provide for reserving
lands for the various tribes, where they may be encouraged to abandon their nomadic habits
and engage in agricultural and industrial pursuits. This policy, inaugurated many years since,
has met with signal success whenever it has been pursued in good faith and with becoming liberality
by the United States. The necessity for extending it as far as practicable in our relations
with the aboriginal population is greater now than at any preceding period. Whilst we furnish
subsistence and instruction to the Indians and guarantee the undisturbed enjoyment of their
treaty rights, we should habitually insist upon the faithful observance of their agreement
to remain within their respective reservations. This is the only mode by which collisions with
other tribes and with the whites can be avoided and the safety of our frontier settlements secured.

The companies constructing the railway from Omaha to Sacramento have been most energetically
engaged in prosecuting the work, and it is believed that the line will be completed before
the expiration of the next fiscal year. The 6 per cent bonds issued to these companies amounted
on the 5th instant to $44,337,000, and additional work had been performed to the extent of
$3,200,000.

The Secretary of the Interior in August last invited my attention to the report of a Government
director of the Union Pacific Railroad Company who had been specially instructed to examine
the location, construction, and equipment of their road. I submitted for the opinion of the
Attorney-General certain questions in regard to the authority of the Executive which arose
upon this report and those which had from time to time been presented by the commissioners
appointed to inspect each successive section of the work. After carefully considering the law
of the case, he affirmed the right of the Executive to order, if necessary, a thorough revision
of the entire road. Commissioners were thereupon appointed to examine this and other lines,
and have recently submitted a statement of their investigations, of which the report of the
Secretary of the Interior furnishes specific information.

The report of the Secretary of War contains information of interest and importance respecting
the several bureaus of the War Department and the operations of the Army. The strength of our
military force on the 30th of September last was 48,000 men, and it is computed that by the
1st of January next this number will be decreased to 43,000. It is the opinion of the Secretary
of War that within the next year a considerable diminution of the infantry force may be made
without detriment to the interests of the country; and in view of the great expense attending
the military peace establishment and the absolute necessity of retrenchment wherever it can
be applied, it is hoped that Congress will sanction the reduction which his report recommends.
While in 1860 sixteen thousand three hundred men cost the nation $16,472,000, the sum of $65,682,000
is estimated as necessary for the support of the Army during the fiscal year ending June 30,
1870. The estimates of the War Department for the last two fiscal years were, for 1867, $33,814,461,
and for 1868 $25,205,669. The actual expenditures during the same periods were, respectively,
$95,224,415 and $123,246,648. The estimate submitted in December last for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1869, was $77,124,707; the expenditures for the first quarter, ending the 30th of
September last, were $27,219,117, and the Secretary of the Treasury gives $66,000,000 as the
amount which will probably be required during the remaining three quarters, if there should
be no reduction of the Army--making its aggregate cost for the year considerably in excess
of ninety-three millions. The difference between the estimates and expenditures for the three
fiscal years which have been named is thus shown to be $175,545,343 for this single branch
of the public service.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy exhibits the operations of that Department and of the
Navy during the year. A considerable reduction of the force has been effected. There are 42
vessels, carrying 411 guns, in the six squadrons which are established in different parts of
the world. Three of these vessels are returning to the United States and 4 are used as storeships,
leaving the actual cruising force 35 vessels, carrying 356 guns. The total number of vessels
in the Navy is 206, mounting 1,743 guns. Eighty-one vessels of every description are in use,
armed with 696 guns. The number of enlisted men in the service, including apprentices, has
been reduced to 8,500. An increase of navy-yard facilities is recommended as a measure which
will in the event of war be promotive of economy and security. A more thorough and systematic
survey of the North Pacific Ocean is advised in view of our recent acquisitions, our expanding
commerce, and the increasing intercourse between the Pacific States and Asia. The naval pension
fund, which consists of a moiety of the avails of prizes captured during the war, amounts to
$14,000,000. Exception is taken to the act of 23d July last, which reduces the interest on
the fund loaned to the Government by the Secretary, as trustee, to 3 per cent instead of 6
per cent, which was originally stipulated when the investment was made. An amendment of the
pension laws is suggested to remedy omissions and defects in existing enactments. The expenditures
of the Department during the last fiscal year were $20,120,394, and the estimates for the coming
year amount to $20,993,414.

The Postmaster-General's report furnishes a full and clear exhibit of the operations and condition
of the postal service. The ordinary postal revenue for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1868.
was $16,292,600, and the total expenditures, embracing all the service for which special appropriations
have been made by Congress, amounted to $22,730,592, showing an excess of expenditures of $6,437,991.
Deducting from the expenditures the sum of $1,896,525, the amount of appropriations for ocean-steamship
and other special service, the excess of expenditures was $4,541,466. By using an unexpended
balance in the Treasury of $3,800,000 the actual sum for which a special appropriation is required
to meet the deficiency is $741,466. The causes which produced this large excess of expenditure
over revenue were the restoration of service in the late insurgent States and the putting into
operation of new service established by acts of Congress, which amounted within the last two
years and a half to about 48,700 miles--equal to more than one-third of the whole amount of
the service at the close of the war. New postal conventions with Great Britain, North Germany,
Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and Italy, respectively, have been carried into effect.
Under their provisions important improvements have resulted in reduced rates of international
postage and enlarged mail facilities with European countries. The cost of the United States
transatlantic ocean mail service since January 1, 1868, has been largely lessened under the
operation of these new conventions, a reduction of over one-half having been effected under
the new arrangements for ocean mail steamship service which went into effect on that date.
The attention of Congress is invited to the practical suggestions and recommendations made
in his report by the Postmaster-General.

No important question has occurred during the last year in our accustomed cordial and friendly
intercourse with Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, San Salvador, France, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland,
Portugal, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Norway, Rome, Greece, Turkey, Persia, Egypt,
Liberia, Morocco, Tripoli, Tunis, Muscat, Siam, Borneo, and Madagascar.

Cordial relations have also been maintained with the Argentine and the Oriental Republics.
The expressed wish of Congress that our national good offices might be tendered to those Republics,
and also to Brazil and Paraguay, for bringing to an end the calamitous war which has so long
been raging in the valley of the La Plata, has been assiduously complied with and kindly acknowledged
by all the belligerents. That important negotiation, however, has thus far been without result.

Charles A. Washburn, late United States minister to Paraguay, having resigned, and being desirous
to return to the United States, the rear-admiral commanding the South Atlantic Squadron was
early directed to send a ship of war to Asuncion, the capital of Paraguay, to receive Mr. Washburn
and his family and remove them from a situation which was represented to be endangered by faction
and foreign war. The Brazilian commander of the allied invading forces refused permission to
the Wasp to pass through the blockading forces, and that vessel returned to its accustomed
anchorage. Remonstrance having been made against this refusal, it was promptly overruled, and
the Wasp therefore resumed her errand, received Mr. Washburn and his family, and conveyed them
to a safe and convenient seaport. In the meantime an excited controversy had arisen between
the President of Paraguay and the late United States minister, which, it is understood, grew
out of his proceedings in giving asylum in the United States legation to alleged enemies of
that Republic. The question of the right to give asylum is one always difficult and often productive
of great embarrassment. In states well organized and established, foreign powers refuse either
to concede or exercise that right, except as to persons actually belonging to the diplomatic
service. On the other hand, all such powers insist upon exercising the right of asylum in states
where the law of nations is not fully acknowledged, respected, and obeyed.

The President of Paraguay is understood to have opposed to Mr. Washburn's proceedings the injurious
and very improbable charge of personal complicity in insurrection and treason. The correspondence,
however, has not yet reached the United States.

Mr. Washburn, in connection with this controversy, represents that two United States citizens
attached to the legation were arbitrarily seized at his side, when leaving the capital of Paraguay,
committed to prison, and there subjected to torture for the purpose of procuring confessions
of their own criminality and testimony to support the President's allegation against the United
States minister. Mr. McMahon, the newly appointed minister to Paraguay, having reached the
La Plata, has been instructed to proceed without delay to Asuncion, there to investigate the
whole subject. The rear-admiral commanding the United States South Atlantic Squadron has been
directed to attend the new minister with a proper naval force to sustain such just demands
as the occasion may require, and to vindicate the rights of the United States citizens referred
to and of any others who may be exposed to danger in the theater of war. With these exceptions,
friendly relations have been maintained between the United States and Brazil and Paraguay.

Our relations during the past year with Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Chile have become especially
friendly and cordial. Spain and the Republics of Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador have expressed
their willingness to accept the mediation of the United States for terminating the war upon
the South Pacific coast. Chile has not finally declared upon the question. In the meantime
the conflict has practically exhausted itself, since no belligerent or hostile movement has
been made by either party during the last two years, and there are no indications of a present
purpose to resume hostilities on either side. Great Britain and France have cordially seconded
our proposition of mediation, and I do not forego the hope that it may soon be accepted by
all the belligerents and lead to a secure establishment of peace and friendly relations between
the Spanish American Republics of the Pacific and Spain--a result which would be attended with
common benefits to the belligerents and much advantage to all commercial nations. I communicate,
for the consideration of Congress, a correspondence which shows that the Bolivian Republic
has established the extremely liberal principle of receiving into its citizenship any citizen
of the United States, or of any other of the American Republics, upon the simple condition
of voluntary registry.

The correspondence herewith submitted will be found painfully replete with accounts of the
ruin and wretchedness produced by recent earthquakes, of unparalleled severity, in the Republics
of Peru, Ecuador, and Bolivia. The diplomatic agents and naval officers of the United States
who were present in those countries at the time of those disasters furnished all the relief
in their power to the sufferers, and were promptly rewarded with grateful and touching acknowledgments
by the Congress of Peru. An appeal to the charity of our fellow-citizens has been answered
by much liberality. In this connection I submit an appeal which has been made by the Swiss
Republic, whose Government and institutions are kindred to our own, in behalf of its inhabitants,
who are suffering extreme destitution, produced by recent devastating inundations.

Our relations with Mexico during the year have been marked by an increasing growth of mutual
confidence. The Mexican Government has not yet acted upon the three treaties celebrated here
last summer for establishing the rights of naturalized citizens upon a liberal and just basis,
for regulating consular powers, and for the adjustment of mutual claims.

All commercial nations, as well as all friends of republican institutions, have occasion to
regret the frequent local disturbances which occur in some of the constituent States of Colombia.
Nothing has occurred, however, to affect the harmony and cordial friendship which have for
several years existed between that youthful and vigorous Republic and our own.

Negotiations are pending with a view to the survey and construction of a ship canal across
the Isthmus of Darien, under the auspices of the United States. I hope to be able to submit
the results of that negotiation to the Senate during its present session.

The very liberal treaty which was entered into last year by the United States and Nicaragua
has been ratified by the latter Republic.

Costa Rica, with the earnestness of a sincerely friendly neighbor, solicits a reciprocity of
trade, which I commend to the consideration of Congress.

The convention created by treaty between the United States and Venezuela in July, 1865, for
the mutual adjustment of claims, has been held, and its decisions have been received at the
Department of State. The heretofore-recognized Government of the United States of Venezuela
has been subverted. A provisional government having been instituted under circumstances which
promise durability, it has been formally recognized.

I have been reluctantly obliged to ask explanation and satisfaction for national injuries committed
by the President of Hayti. The political and social condition of the Republics of Hayti and
St. Domingo is very unsatisfactory and painful. The abolition of slavery, which has been carried
into effect throughout the island of St. Domingo and the entire West Indies, except the Spanish
islands of Cuba and Porto Rico, has been followed by a profound popular conviction of the rightfulness
of republican institutions and an intense desire to secure them. The attempt, however, to establish
republics there encounters many obstacles, most of which may be supposed to result from long-indulged
habits of colonial supineness and dependence upon European monarchical powers. While the United
States have on all occasions professed a decided unwillingness that any part of this continent
or of its adjacent islands shall be made a theater for a new establishment of monarchical power,
too little has been done by us, on the other hand, to attach the communities by which we are
surrounded to our own country, or to lend even a moral support to the efforts they are so resolutely
and so constantly making to secure republican institutions for themselves. It is indeed a question
of grave consideration whether our recent and present example is not calculated to check the
growth and expansion of free principles, and make those communities distrust, if not dread,
a government which at will consigns to military domination States that are integral parts of
our Federal Union, and, while ready to resist any attempts by other nations to extend to this
hemisphere the monarchical institutions of Europe, assumes to establish over a large portion
of its people a rule more absolute, harsh, and tyrannical than any known to civilized powers.

The acquisition of Alaska was made with the view of extending national jurisdiction and republican
principles in the American hemisphere. Believing that a further step could be taken in the
same direction, I last year entered into a treaty with the King of Denmark for the purchase
of the islands of St. Thomas and St. John, on the best terms then attainable, and with the
express consent of the people of those islands. This treaty still remains under consideration
in the Senate. A new convention has been entered into with Denmark, enlarging the time fixed
for final ratification of the original treaty.

Comprehensive national policy would seem to sanction the acquisition and incorporation into
our Federal Union of the several adjacent continental and insular communities as speedily as
it can be done peacefully, lawfully, and without any violation of national justice, faith,
or honor. Foreign possession or control of those communities has hitherto hindered the growth
and impaired the influence of the United States. Chronic revolution and anarchy there would
be equally injurious. Each one of them, when firmly established as an independent republic,
or when incorporated into the United States, would be a new source of strength and power. Conforming
my Administration to these principles, I have or no occasion lent support or toleration to
unlawful expeditions set on foot upon the plea of republican propagandism or of national extension
or aggrandizement. The necessity, however, of repressing such unlawful movements clearly indicates
the duty which rests upon us of adapting our legislative action to the new circumstances of
a decline of European monarchical power and influence and the increase of American republican
ideas, interests, and sympathies.

It can not be long before it will become necessary for this Government to lend some effective
aid to the solution of the political and social problems which are continually kept before
the world by the two Republics of the island of St. Domingo, and which are now disclosing themselves
more distinctly than heretofore in the island of Cuba. The subject is commended to your consideration
with all the more earnestness because I am satisfied that the time has arrived when even so
direct a proceeding as a proposition for an annexation of the two Republics of the island of
St. Domingo would not only receive the consent of the people interested, but would also give
satisfaction to all other foreign nations.

I am aware that upon the question of further extending our possessions it is apprehended by
some that our political system can not successfully be applied to an area more extended than
our continent; but the conviction is rapidly gaining ground in the American mind that with
the increased facilities for intercommunication between all portions of the earth the principles
of free government, as embraced in our Constitution, if faithfully maintained and carried out,
would prove of sufficient strength and breadth to comprehend within their sphere and influence
the civilized nations of the world.

The attention of the Senate and of Congress is again respectfully invited to the treaty for
the establishment of commercial reciprocity with the Hawaiian Kingdom entered into last year,
and already ratified by that Government. The attitude of the United States toward these islands
is not very different from that in which they stand toward the West Indies. It is known and
felt by the Hawaiian Government and people that their Government and institutions are feeble
and precarious; that the United States, being so near a neighbor, would be unwilling to see
the islands pass under foreign control. Their prosperity is continually disturbed by expectations
and alarms of unfriendly political proceedings, as well from the United States as from other
foreign powers. A reciprocity treaty, while it could not materially diminish the revenues of
the United States, would be a guaranty of the good will and forbearance of all nations until
the people of the islands shall of themselves, at no distant day, voluntarily apply for admission
into the Union.

The Emperor of Russia has acceded to the treaty negotiated here in January last for the security
of trade-marks in the interest of manufacturers and commerce. I have invited his attention
to the importance of establishing, now while it seems easy and practicable, a fair and equal
regulation of the vast fisheries belonging to the two nations in the waters of the North Pacific
Ocean.

The two treaties between the United States and Italy for the regulation of consular powers
and the extradition of criminals, negotiated and ratified here during the last session of Congress,
have been accepted and confirmed by the Italian Government. A liberal consular convention which
has been negotiated with Belgium will be submitted to the Senate. The very important treaties
which were negotiated between the United States and North Germany and Bavaria for the regulation
of the rights of naturalized citizens have been duly ratified and exchanged, and similar treaties
have been entered into with the Kingdoms of Belgium and Wurtemberg and with the Grand Duchies
of Baden and Hesse-Darmstadt. I hope soon to be able to submit equally satisfactory conventions
of the same character now in the course of negotiation with the respective Governments of Spain,
Italy, and the Ottoman Empire.

Examination of claims against the United States by the Hudsons Bay Company and the Puget Sound
Agricultural Company, on account of certain possessory rights in the State of Oregon and Territory
of Washington, alleged by those companies in virtue of provisions of the treaty between the
United States and Great Britain of June 15, 1846, has been diligently prosecuted, under the
direction of the joint international commission to which they were submitted for adjudication
by treaty between the two Governments of July 1, 1863, and will, it is expected, be concluded
at an early day.

No practical regulation concerning colonial trade and the fisheries can be accomplished by
treaty between the United States and Great Britain until Congress shall have expressed their
judgment concerning the principles involved. Three other questions, however, between the United
States and Great Britain remain open for adjustment. These are the mutual rights of naturalized
citizens, the boundary question involving the title to the island of San Juan, on the Pacific
coast, and mutual claims arising since the year 1853 of the citizens and subjects of the two
countries for injuries and depredations committed under the authority of their respective Governments.
Negotiations upon these subjects are pending, and I am not without hope of being able to lay
before the Senate, for its consideration during the present session, protocols calculated to
bring to an end these justly exciting and long-existing controversies.

We are not advised of the action of the Chinese Government upon the liberal and auspicious
treaty which was recently celebrated with its plenipotentiaries at this capital.

Japan remains a theater of civil war, marked by religious incidents and political severities
peculiar to that long-isolated Empire. The Executive has hitherto maintained strict neutrality
among the belligerents, and acknowledges with pleasure that it has been frankly and fully sustained
in that course by the enlightened concurrence and cooperation of the other treaty powers, namely
Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, North Germany, and Italy.

Spain having recently undergone a revolution marked by extraordinary unanimity and preservation
of order, the provisional government established at Madrid has been recognized, and the friendly
intercourse which has so long happily existed between the two countries remains unchanged.

I renew the recommendation contained in my communication to Congress dated the 18th July last--a
copy of which accompanies this message that the judgment of the people should be taken on the
propriety of so amending the Federal Constitution that it shall provide--

First. For an election of President and Vice-President by a direct vote of the people, instead
of through the agency of electors, and making them ineligible for reelection to a second term.

Second. For a distinct designation of the person who shall discharge the duties of President
in the event of a vacancy in that office by the death, resignation, or removal of both the
President and Vice-President.

Third. For the election of Senators of the United States directly by the people of the several
States, instead of by the legislatures; and

Fourth. For the limitation to a period of years of the terms of Federal judges.

Profoundly impressed with the propriety of making these important modifications in the Constitution,
I respectfully submit them for the early and mature consideration of Congress. We should, as
far as possible, remove all pretext for violations of the organic law, by remedying such imperfections
as time and experience may develop, ever remembering that "the constitution which at any time
exists until changed by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people is sacredly obligatory
upon all."

In the performance of a duty imposed upon me by the Constitution, I have thus communicated
to Congress information of the state of the Union and recommended for their consideration such
measures as have seemed to me necessary and expedient. In Congress are vested all legislative
powers, and upon them devolves the responsibility as well for framing unwise and excessive
laws as for neglecting to devise and adopt measures absolutely demanded by the wants of the
country. Let us earnestly hope that before the expiration of our respective terms of service,
now rapidly drawing to a close, an all-wise Providence will so guide our counsels as to strengthen
and preserve the Federal Unions, inspire reverence for the Constitution, restore prosperity
and happiness to our whole people, and promote "on earth peace, good will toward men."

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 6, 1869

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In coming before you for the first time as Chief Magistrate of this great nation, it is with
gratitude to the Giver of All Good for the many benefits we enjoy. We are blessed with peace
at home, and are without entangling alliances abroad to forebode trouble; with a territory
unsurpassed in fertility, of an area equal to the abundant support of 500,000,000 people, and
abounding in every variety of useful mineral in quantity sufficient to supply the world for
generations; with exuberant crops; with a variety of climate adapted to the production of every
species of earth's riches and suited to the habits, tastes, and requirements of every living
thing; with a population of 40,000,000 free people, all speaking one language; with facilities
for every mortal to acquire an education; with institutions closing to none the avenues to
fame or any blessing of fortune that may be coveted; with freedom of the pulpit, the press,
and the school; with a revenue flowing into the National Treasury beyond the requirements of
the Government. Happily, harmony is being rapidly restored within our own borders. Manufactures
hitherto unknown in our country are springing up in all sections, producing a degree of national
independence unequaled by that of any other power.

These blessings and countless others are intrusted to your care and mine for safe-keeping for
the brief period of our tenure of office. In a short time we must, each of us, return to the
ranks of the people, who have conferred upon us our honors, and account to them for our stewardship.
I earnestly desire that neither you nor I may be condemned by a free and enlightened constituency
nor by our own consciences.

Emerging from a rebellion of gigantic magnitude, aided, as it was, by the sympathies and assistance
of nations with which we were at peace, eleven States of the Union were, four years ago, left
without legal State governments. A national debt had been contracted; American commerce was
almost driven from the seas; the industry of one-half of the country had been taken from the
control of the capitalist and placed where all labor rightfully belongs--in the keeping of
the laborer. The work of restoring State governments loyal to the Union, of protecting and
fostering free labor, and providing means for paying the interest on the public debt has received
ample attention from Congress. Although your efforts have not met with the success in all particulars
that might have been desired, yet on the whole they have been more successful than could have
been reasonably anticipated.

Seven States which passed ordinances of secession have been fully restored to their places
in the Union. The eighth (Georgia) held an election at which she ratified her constitution,
republican in form, elected a governor, Members of Congress, a State legislature, and all other
officers required. The governor was duly installed, and the legislature met and performed all
the acts then required of them by the reconstruction acts of Congress. Subsequently, however,
in violation of the constitution which they had just ratified (as since decided by the supreme
court of the State), they unseated the colored members of the legislature and admitted to seats
some members who are disqualified by the third clause of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution--an
article which they themselves had contributed to ratify. Under these circumstances I would
submit to you whether it would not be wise, without delay, to enact a law authorizing the governor
of Georgia to convene the members originally elected to the legislature, requiring each member
to take the oath prescribed by the reconstruction acts, and none to be admitted who are ineligible
under the third clause of the fourteenth amendment.

The freedmen, under the protection which they have received, are making rapid progress in learning,
and no complaints are heard of lack of industry on their part where they receive fair remuneration
for their labor. The means provided for paying the interest on the public debt, with all other
expenses of Government, are more than ample. The loss of our commerce is the only result of
the late rebellion which has not received sufficient attention from you. To this subject I
call your earnest attention. I will not now suggest plans by which this object may be effected,
but will, if necessary, make it the subject of a special message during the session of Congress.

At the March term Congress by joint resolution authorized the Executive to order elections
in the States of Virginia, Mississippi, and Texas, to submit to them the constitutions which
each had previously, in convention, framed, and submit the constitutions, either entire or
in separate parts, to be voted upon, at the discretion of the Executive. Under this authority
elections were called. In Virginia the election took place on the 6th of July, 1869. The governor
and lieutenant-governor elected have been installed. The legislature met and did all required
by this resolution and by all the reconstruction acts of Congress, and abstained from all doubtful
authority. I recommend that her Senators and Representatives be promptly admitted to their
seats, and that the State be fully restored to its place in the family of States. Elections
were called in Mississippi and Texas, to commence on the 30th of November, 1869, and to last
two days in Mississippi and four days in Texas. The elections have taken place, but the result
is not known. It is to be hoped that the acts of the legislatures of these States, when they
meet, will be such as to receive your approval, and thus close the work of reconstruction.

Among the evils growing out of the rebellion, and not yet referred to, is that of an irredeemable
currency. It is an evil which I hope will receive your most earnest attention. It is a duty,
and one of the highest duties, of Government to secure to the citizen a medium of exchange
of fixed, unvarying value. This implies a return to a specie basis, and no substitute for it
can be devised. It should be commenced now and reached at the earliest practicable moment consistent
with a fair regard to the interests of the debtor class. Immediate resumption, if practicable,
would not be desirable. It would compel the debtor class to pay, beyond their contracts, the
premium on gold at the date of their purchase and would bring bankruptcy and ruin to thousands.
Fluctuation, however, in the paper value of the measure of all values (gold) is detrimental
to the interests of trade. It makes the man of business an involuntary gambler, for in all
sales where future payment is to be made both parties speculate as to what will be the value
of the currency to be paid and received. I earnestly recommend to you, then, such legislation
as will insure a gradual return to specie payments and put an immediate stop to fluctuations
in the value of currency.

The methods to secure the former of these results are as numerous as are the speculators on
political economy. To secure the latter I see but one way, and that is to authorize the Treasury
to redeem its own paper, at a fixed price, whenever presented, and to withhold from circulation
all currency so redeemed until sold again for gold.

The vast resources of the nation, both developed and undeveloped, ought to make our credit
the best on earth. With a less burden of taxation than the citizen has endured for six years
past, the entire public debt could be paid in ten years. But it is not desirable that the people
should be taxed to pay it in that time. Year by year the ability to pay increases in a rapid
ratio. But the burden of interest ought to be reduced as rapidly as can be done without the
violation of contract. The public debt is represented in great part by bonds having from five
to twenty and from ten to forty years to run, bearing interest at the rate of 6 per cent and
5 per cent, respectively. It is optional with the Government to pay these bonds at any period
after the expiration of the least time mentioned upon their face. The time has already expired
when a great part of them may be taken up, and is rapidly approaching when all may be. It is
believed that all which are now due may be replaced by bonds bearing a rate of interest not
exceeding 4 1/2 per cent, and as rapidly as the remainder become due that they may be replaced
in the same way. To accomplish this it may be necessary to authorize the interest to be paid
at either of three or four of the money centers of Europe, or by any assistant treasurer of
the United States, at the option of the holder of the bond. I suggest this subject for the
consideration of Congress, and also, simultaneously with this, the propriety of redeeming our
currency, as before suggested, at its market value at the time the law goes into effect, increasing
the rate at which currency shall be bought and sold from day to day or week to week, at the
same rate of interest as Government pays upon its bonds.

The subjects of tariff and internal taxation will necessarily receive your attention. The revenues
of the country are greater than the requirements, and may with safety be reduced. But as the
funding of the debt in a 4 or a 4 1/2 per cent loan would reduce annual current expenses largely,
thus, after funding, justifying a greater reduction of taxation than would be now expedient,
I suggest postponement of this question until the next meeting of Congress.

It may be advisable to modify taxation and tariff in instances where unjust or burdensome discriminations
are made by the present laws, but a general revision of the laws regulating this subject I
recommend the postponement of for the present. I also suggest the renewal of the tax on incomes,
but at a reduced rate, say of 3 per cent, and this tax to expire in three years.

With the funding of the national debt, as here suggested, I feel safe in saying that taxes
and the revenue from imports may be reduced safely from sixty to eighty millions per annum
at once, and may be still further reduced from year to year, as the resources of the country
are developed.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury shows the receipts of the Government for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1869, to be $370,943,747, and the expenditures, including interest, bounties,
etc., to be $321,490,597. The estimates for the ensuing year are more favorable to the Government,
and will no doubt show a much larger decrease of the public debt.

The receipts in the Treasury beyond expenditures have exceeded the amount necessary to place
to the credit of the sinking fund, as provided by law. To lock up the surplus in the Treasury
and withhold it from circulation would lead to such a contraction of the currency as to cripple
trade and seriously affect the prosperity of the country. Under these circumstances the Secretary
of the Treasury and myself heartily concurred in the propriety of using all the surplus currency
in the Treasury in the purchase of Government bonds, thus reducing the interest-bearing indebtedness
of the country, and of submitting to Congress the question of the disposition to be made of
the bonds so purchased. The bonds now held by the Treasury amount to about seventy-five millions,
including those belonging to the sinking fund. I recommend that the whole be placed to the
credit of the sinking fund.

Your attention is respectfully invited to the recommendations of the Secretary of the Treasury
for the creation of the office of commissioner of customs revenue; for the increase of salaries
to certain classes of officials; the substitution of increased national-bank circulation to
replace the outstanding 3 per cent certificates; and most especially to his recommendation
for the repeal of laws allowing shares of fines, penalties, forfeitures, etc., to officers
of the Government or to informers.

The office of Commissioner of Internal Revenue is one of the most arduous and responsible under
the Government. It falls but little, if any, short of a Cabinet position in its importance
and responsibilities. I would ask for it, therefore, such legislation as in your judgment will
place the office upon a footing of dignity commensurate with its importance and with the character
and qualifications of the class of men required to fill it properly.

As the United States is the freest of all nations, so, too, its people sympathize with all
people struggling for liberty and self-government; but while so sympathizing it is due to our
honor that we should abstain from enforcing our views upon unwilling nations and from taking
an interested part, without invitation, in the quarrels between different nations or between
governments and their subjects. Our course should always be in conformity with strict justice
and law, international and local. Such has been the policy of the Administration in dealing
with these questions. For more than a year a valuable province of Spain, and a near neighbor
of ours, in whom all our people can not but feel a deep interest, has been struggling for independence
and freedom. The people and Government of the United States entertain the same warm feelings
and sympathies for the people of Cuba in their pending struggle that they manifested throughout
the previous struggles between Spain and her former colonies in behalf of the latter. But the
contest has at no time assumed the conditions which amount to a war in the sense of international
law, or which would show the existence of a de facto political organization of the insurgents
sufficient to justify a recognition of belligerency.

The principle is maintained, however, that this nation is its own judge when to accord the
rights of belligerency, either to a people struggling to free themselves from a government
they believe to be oppressive or to independent nations at war with each other.

The United States have no disposition to interfere with the existing relations of Spain to
her colonial possessions on this continent. They believe that in due time Spain and other European
powers will find their interest in terminating those relations and establishing their present
dependencies as independent powers--members of the family of nations. These dependencies are
no longer regarded as subject to transfer from one European power to another. When the present
relation of colonies ceases, they are to become independent powers, exercising the right of
choice and of self-control in the determination of their future condition and relations with
other powers.

The United States, in order to put a stop to bloodshed in Cuba, and in the interest of a neighboring
people, proposed their good offices to bring the existing contest to a termination. The offer,
not being accepted by Spain on a basis which we believed could be received by Cuba, was withdrawn.
It is hoped that the good offices of the United States may yet prove advantageous for the settlement
of this unhappy strife. Meanwhile a number of illegal expeditions against Cuba have been broken
up. It has been the endeavor of the Administration to execute the neutrality laws in good faith,
no matter how unpleasant the task, made so by the sufferings we have endured from lack of like
good faith toward us by other nations.

On the 26th of March last the United States schooner Lizzie Major was arrested on the high
seas by a Spanish frigate, and two passengers taken from it and carried as prisoners to Cuba.
Representations of these facts were made to the Spanish Government as soon as official information
of them reached Washington. The two passengers were set at liberty, and the Spanish Government
assured the United States that the captain of the frigate in making the capture had acted without
law, that he had been reprimanded for the irregularity of his conduct, and that the Spanish
authorities in Cuba would not sanction any act that could violate the rights or treat with
disrespect the sovereignty of this nation.

The question of the seizure of the brig Mary Lowell at one of the Bahama Islands by Spanish
authorities is now the subject of correspondence between this Government and those of Spain
and Great Britain.

The Captain-General of Cuba about May last issued a proclamation authorizing search to be made
of vessels on the high seas. Immediate remonstrance was made against this, whereupon the Captain-General
issued a new proclamation limiting the right of search to vessels of the United States so far
as authorized under the treaty of 1795. This proclamation, however, was immediately withdrawn.

I have always felt that the most intimate relations should be cultivated between the Republic
of the United States and all independent nations on this continent. It may be well worth considering
whether new treaties between us and them may not be profitably entered into, to secure more
intimate relations--friendly, commercial, and otherwise.

The subject of an interoceanic canal to connect the Atlantic and Pacific oceans through the
Isthmus of Darien is one in which commerce is greatly interested. Instructions have been given
to our minister to the Republic of the United States of Colombia to endeavor to obtain authority
for a survey by this Government, in order to determine the practicability of such an undertaking,
and a charter for the right of way to build, by private enterprise, such a work, if the survey
proves it to be practicable.

In order to comply with the agreement of the United States as to a mixed commission at Lima
for the adjustment of claims, it became necessary to send a commissioner and secretary to Lima
in August last. No appropriation having been made by Congress for this purpose, it is now asked
that one be made covering the past and future expenses of the commission.

The good offices of the United States to bring about a peace between Spain and the South American
Republics with which she is at war having been accepted by Spain, Peru, and Chile, a congress
has been invited to be held in Washington during the present winter.

A grant has been given to Europeans of an exclusive right of transit over the territory of
Nicaragua, to which Costa Rico has given its assent, which, it is alleged, conflicts with vested
rights of citizens of the United States. The Department of State has now this subject under
consideration.

The minister of Peru having made representations that there was a state of war between Peru
and Spain, and that Spain was constructing, in and near New York, thirty gunboats, which might
be used by Spain in such a way as to relieve the naval force at Cuba, so as to operate against
Peru, orders were given to prevent their departure. No further steps having been taken by the
representative of the Peruvian Government to prevent the departure of these vessels, and I
not feeling authorized to detain the property of a nation with which we are at peace on a mere
Executive order, the matter has been referred to the courts to decide.

The conduct of the war between the allies and the Republic of Paraguay has made the intercourse
with that country so difficult that it has been deemed advisable to withdraw our representative
from there.

Toward the close of the last Administration a convention was signed at London for the settlement
of all outstanding claims between Great Britain and the United States, which failed to receive
the advice and consent of the Senate to its ratification. The time and the circumstances attending
the negotiation of that treaty were unfavorable to its acceptance by the people of the United
States, and its provisions were wholly inadequate for the settlement of the grave wrongs that
had been sustained by this Government, as well as by its citizens. The injuries resulting to
the United States by reason of the course adopted by Great Britain during our late civil war--in
the increased rates of insurance; in the diminution of exports and imports, and other obstructions
to domestic industry and production; in its effect upon the foreign commerce of the country;
in the decrease and transfer to Great Britain of our commercial marine; in the prolongation
of the war and the increased cost (both in treasure and in lives) of its suppression could
not be adjusted and satisfied as ordinary commercial claims, which continually arise between
commercial nations; and yet the convention treated them simply as such ordinary claims, from
which they differ more widely in the gravity of their character than in the magnitude of their
amount, great even as is that difference. Not a word was found in the treaty, and not an inference
could be drawn from it, to remove the sense of the unfriendliness of the course of Great Britain
in our struggle for existence, which had so deeply and universally impressed itself upon the
people of this country.

Believing that a convention thus misconceived in its scope and inadequate in its provisions
would not have produced the hearty, cordial settlement of pending questions, which alone is
consistent with the relations which I desire to have firmly established between the United
States and Great Britain, I regarded the action of the Senate in rejecting the treaty to have
been wisely taken in the interest of peace and as a necessary step in the direction of a perfect
and cordial friendship between the two countries. A sensitive people, conscious of their power,
are more at ease under a great wrong wholly unatoned than under the restraint of a settlement
which satisfies neither their ideas of justice nor their grave sense of the grievance they
have sustained. The rejection of the treaty was followed by a state of public feeling on both
sides which I thought not favorable to an immediate attempt at renewed negotiations. I accordingly
so instructed the minister of the United States to Great Britain, and found that my views in
this regard were shared by Her Majesty's ministers. I hope that the time may soon arrive when
the two Governments can approach the solution of this momentous question with an appreciation
of what is due to the rights, dignity, and honor of each, and with the determination not only
to remove the causes of complaint in the past, but to lay the foundation of a broad principle
of public law which will prevent future differences and tend to firm and continued peace and
friendship.

This is now the only grave question which the United States has with any foreign nation.

The question of renewing a treaty for reciprocal trade between the United States and the British
Provinces on this continent has not been favorably considered by the Administration. The advantages
of such a treaty would be wholly in favor of the British producer. Except, possibly, a few
engaged in the trade between the two sections, no citizen of the United States would be benefited
by reciprocity. Our internal taxation would prove a protection to the British producer almost
equal to the protection which our manufacturers now receive from the tariff. Some arrangement,
however, for the regulation of commercial intercourse between the United States and the Dominion
of Canada may be desirable.

The commission for adjusting the claims of the "Hudsons Bay and Puget Sound Agricultural Company"
upon the United States has terminated its labors. The award of $650,000 has been made and all
rights and titles of the company on the territory of the United States have been extinguished.
Deeds for the property of the company have been delivered. An appropriation by Congress to
meet this sum is asked.

The commissioners for determining the northwestern land boundary between the United States
and the British possessions under the treaty of 1856 have completed their labors, and the commission
has been dissolved.

In conformity with the recommendation of Congress, a proposition was early made to the British
Government to abolish the mixed courts created under the treaty of April 7, 1862, for the suppression
of the slave trade. The subject is still under negotiation.

It having come to my knowledge that a corporate company, organized under British laws, proposed
to land upon the shores of the United States and to operate there a submarine cable, under
a concession from His Majesty the Emperor of the French of an exclusive right for twenty years
of telegraphic communication between the shores of France and the United States, with the very
objectionable feature of subjecting all messages conveyed thereby to the scrutiny and control
of the French Government, I caused the French and British legations at Washington to be made
acquainted with the probable policy of Congress on this subject, as foreshadowed by the bill
which passed the Senate in March last. This drew from the representatives of the company an
agreement to accept as the basis of their operations the provisions of that bill, or of such
other enactment on the subject as might be passed during the approaching session of Congress;
also, to use their influence to secure from the French Government a modification of their concession,
so as to permit the landing upon French soil of any cable belonging to any company incorporated
by the authority of the United States or of any State in the Union, and, on their part, not
to oppose the establishment of any such cable. In consideration of this agreement I directed
the withdrawal of all opposition by the United States authorities to the landing of the cable
and to the working of it until the meeting of Congress. I regret to say that there has been
no modification made in the company's concession, nor, so far as I can learn, have they attempted
to secure one. Their concession excludes the capital and the citizens of the United States
from competition upon the shores of France. I recommend legislation to protect the rights of
citizens of the United States, as well as the dignity and sovereignty of the nation, against
such an assumption. I shall also endeavor to secure, by negotiation, an abandonment of the
principle of monopolies in ocean telegraphic cables. Copies of this correspondence are herewith
furnished.

The unsettled political condition of other countries, less fortunate than our own, sometimes
induces their citizens to come to the United States for the sole purpose of becoming naturalized.
Having secured this, they return to their native country and reside there, without disclosing
their change of allegiance. They accept official positions of trust or honor, which can only
be held by citizens of their native land; they journey under passports describing them as such
citizens; and it is only when civil discord, after perhaps years of quiet, threatens their
persons or their property, or when their native state drafts them into its military service,
that the fact of their change of allegiance is made known. They reside permanently away from
the United States, they contribute nothing to its revenues, they avoid the duties of its citizenship,
and they only make themselves known by a claim of protection. I have directed the diplomatic
and consular officers of the United States to scrutinize carefully all such claims for protection.
The citizen of the United States, whether native or adopted, who discharges his duty to his
country, is entitled to its complete protection. While I have a voice in the direction of affairs
I shall not consent to imperil this sacred right by conferring it upon fictitious or fraudulent
claimants.

On the accession of the present Administration it was found that the minister for North Germany
had made propositions for the negotiation of a convention for the protection of emigrant passengers,
to which no response had been given. It was concluded that to be effectual all the maritime
powers engaged in the trade should join in such a measure. Invitations have been extended to
the cabinets of London, Paris, Florence, Berlin, Brussels, The Hague, Copenhagen, and Stockholm
to empower their representatives at Washington to simultaneously enter into negotiations and
to conclude with the United States conventions identical in form, making uniform regulations
as to the construction of the parts of vessels to be devoted to the use of emigrant passengers,
as to the quality and quantity of food, as to the medical treatment of the sick, and as to
the rules to be observed during the voyage, in order to secure ventilation, to promote health,
to prevent intrusion, and to protect the females; and providing for the establishment of tribunals
in the several countries for enforcing such regulations by summary process.

Your attention is respectfully called to the law regulating the tariff on Russian hemp, and
to the question whether to fix the charges on Russian hemp higher than they are fixed upon
manila is not a violation of our treaty with Russia placing her products upon the same footing
with those of the most favored nations.

Our manufactures are increasing with wonderful rapidity under the encouragement which they
now receive. With the improvements in machinery already effected, and still increasing, causing
machinery to take the place of skilled labor to a large extent, our imports of many articles
must fall off largely within a very few years. Fortunately, too, manufactures are not confined
to a few localities, as formerly, and it is to be hoped will become more and more diffused,
making the interest in them equal in all sections. They give employment and support to hundreds
of thousands of people at home, and retain with us the means which otherwise would be shipped
abroad. The extension of railroads in Europe and the East is bringing into competition with
our agricultural products like products of other countries. Self-interest, if not self-preservation,
therefore dictates caution against disturbing any industrial interest of the country. It teaches
us also the necessity of looking to other markets for the sale of our surplus. Our neighbors
south of us and China and Japan, should receive our special attention. It will be the endeavor
of the Administration to cultivate such relations with all these nations as to entitle us to
their confidence and make it their interest, as well as ours, to establish better commercial
relations.

Through the agency of a more enlightened policy than that heretofore pursued toward China,
largely due to the sagacity and efforts of one of our own distinguished citizens, the world
is about to commence largely increased relations with that populous and hitherto exclusive
nation. As the United States have been the initiators in this new policy, so they should be
the most earnest in showing their good faith in making it a success. In this connection I advise
such legislation as will forever preclude the enslavement of the Chinese upon our soil under
the name of coolies, and also prevent American vessels from engaging in the transportation
of coolies to any country tolerating the system. I also recommend that the mission to China
be raised to one of the first class.

On my assuming the responsible duties of Chief Magistrate of the United States it was with
the conviction that three things were essential to its peace, prosperity, and fullest development.
First among these is strict integrity in fulfilling all our obligations; second, to secure
protection to the person and property of the citizen of the United States in each and every
portion of our common country, wherever he may choose to move, without reference to original
nationality, religion, color, or politics, demanding of him only obedience to the laws and
proper respect for the rights of others; third, union of all the States, with equal rights,
indestructible by any constitutional means.

To secure the first of these, Congress has taken two essential steps: First, in declaring by
joint resolution that the public debt shall be paid, principal and interest, in coin; and,
second, by providing the means for paying. Providing the means, however, could not secure the
object desired without a proper administration of the laws for the collection of the revenues
and an economical disbursement of them. To this subject the Administration has most earnestly
addressed itself, with results, I hope, satisfactory to the country. There has been no hesitation
in changing officials in order to secure an efficient execution of the laws, sometimes, too,
when, in a mere party view, undesirable political results were likely to follow; nor any hesitation
in sustaining efficient officials against remonstrances wholly political.

It may be well to mention here the embarrassment possible to arise from leaving on the statute
books the so-called "tenure-of-office acts," and to earnestly recommend their total repeal.
It could not have been the intention of the framers of the Constitution, when providing that
appointments made by the President should receive the consent of the Senate, that the latter
should have the power to retain in office persons placed there by Federal appointment against
the will of the President. The law is inconsistent with a faithful and efficient administration
of the Government. What faith can an Executive put in officials forced upon him, and those,
too, whom he has suspended for reason? How will such officials be likely to serve an Administration
which they know does not trust them?

For the second requisite to our growth and prosperity time and a firm but humane administration
of existing laws (amended from time to time as they may prove ineffective or prove harsh and
unnecessary) are probably all that are required.

The third can not be attained by special legislation, but must be regarded as fixed by the
Constitution itself and gradually acquiesced in by force of public opinion.

From the foundation of the Government to the present the management of the original inhabitants
of this continent--the Indians--has been a subject of embarrassment and expense, and has been
attended with continuous robberies, murders, and wars. From my own experience upon the frontiers
and in Indian countries, I do not hold either legislation or the conduct of the whites who
come most in contact with the Indian blameless for these hostilities. The past, however, can
not be undone, and the question must be met as we now find it. I have attempted a new policy
toward these wards of the nation (they can not be regarded in any other light than as wards),
with fair results so far as tried, and which I hope will be attended ultimately with great
success. The Society of Friends is well known as having succeeded in living in peace with the
Indians in the early settlement of Pennsylvania, while their white neighbors of other sects
in other sections were constantly embroiled. They are also known for their opposition to all
strife, violence, and war, and are generally noted for their strict integrity and fair dealings.
These considerations induced me to give the management of a few reservations of Indians to
them and to throw the burden of the selection of agents upon the society itself. The result
has proven most satisfactory. It will be found more fully set forth in the report of the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs. For superintendents and Indian agents not on the reservations, officers
of the Army were selected. The reasons for this are numerous. Where Indian agents are sent,
there, or near there, troops must be sent also. The agent and the commander of troops are independent
of each other, and are subject to orders from different Departments of the Government. The
army officer holds a position for life; the agent, one at the will of the President. The former
is personally interested in living in harmony with the Indian and in establishing a permanent
peace, to the end that some portion of his life may be spent within the limits of civilized
society; the latter has no such personal interest. Another reason is an economic one; and still
another, the hold which the Government has upon a life officer to secure a faithful discharge
of duties in carrying out a given policy.

The building of railroads, and the access thereby given to all the agricultural and mineral
regions of the country, is rapidly bringing civilized settlements into contact with all the
tribes of Indians. No matter what ought to be the relations between such settlements and the
aborigines, the fact is they do not harmonize well, and one or the other has to give way in
the end. A system which looks to the extinction of a race is too horrible for a nation to adopt
without entailing upon itself the wrath of all Christendom and engendering in the citizen a
disregard for human life and the rights of others, dangerous to society. I see no substitute
for such a system, except in placing all the Indians on large reservations, as rapidly as it
can be done, and giving them absolute protection there. As soon as they are fitted for it they
should be induced to take their lands in severalty and to set up Territorial governments for
their own protection. For full details on this subject I call your special attention to the
reports of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.

The report of the Secretary of War shows the expenditures of the War Department for the year
ending June 30, 1869, to be $80,644,042, of which $23,882,310 was disbursed in the payment
of debts contracted during the war, and is not chargeable to current army expenses. His estimate
of $34,531,031 for the expenses of the Army for the next fiscal year is as low as it is believed
can be relied on. The estimates of bureau officers have been carefully scrutinized, and reduced
wherever it has been deemed practicable. If, however, the condition of the country should be
such by the beginning of the next fiscal year as to admit of a greater concentration of troops,
the appropriation asked for will not be expended.

The appropriations estimated for river and harbor improvements and for fortifications are submitted
separately. Whatever amount Congress may deem proper to appropriate for these purposes will
be expended.

The recommendation of the General of the Army that appropriations be made for the forts at
Boston. Portland, New York, Philadelphia, New Orleans, and San Francisco, if for no other,
is concurred in. I also ask your special attention to the recommendation of the general commanding
the Military Division of the Pacific for the sale of the seal islands of St. Paul and St. George,
Alaska Territory, and suggest that it either be complied with or that legislation be had for
the protection of the seal fisheries from which a revenue should be derived.

The report of the Secretary of War contains a synopsis of the reports of the heads of bureaus,
of the commanders of military divisions, and of the districts of Virginia, Mississippi, and
Texas, and the report of the General of the Army in full. The recommendations therein contained
have been well considered, and are submitted for your action. I, however, call special attention
to the recommendation of the Chief of Ordnance for the sale of arsenals and lands no longer
of use to the Government; also, to the recommendation of the Secretary of War that the act
of 3d March, 1869, prohibiting promotions and appointments in the staff corps of the Army,
be repealed. The extent of country to be garrisoned and the number of military posts to be
occupied is the same with a reduced Army as with a large one. The number of staff officers
required is more dependent upon the latter than the former condition.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy accompanying this shows the condition of the Navy when
this Administration came into office and the changes made since. Strenuous efforts have been
made to place as many vessels "in commission," or render them fit for service if required,
as possible, and to substitute the sail for steam while cruising, thus materially reducing
the expenses of the Navy and adding greatly to its efficiency. Looking to our future, I recommend
a liberal, though not extravagant, policy toward this branch of the public service.

The report of the Postmaster-General furnishes a clear and comprehensive exhibit of the operations
of the postal service and of the financial condition of the Post-Office Department. The ordinary
postal revenues for the year ending the 30th of June, 1869, amounted to $18,344,510, and the
expenditures to $23,698,131, showing an excess of expenditures over receipts of $5,353,620.
The excess of expenditures over receipts for the previous year amounted to $6,437,992. The
increase of revenues for 1869 over those of 1868 was $2,051,909, and the increase of expenditures
was $967,538. The increased revenue in 1869 exceeded the increased revenue in 1868 by $996,336,
and the increased expenditure in 1869 was $2,527,570 less than the increased expenditure in
1868, showing by comparison this gratifying feature of improvement, that while the increase
of expenditures over the increase of receipts in 1868 was $2,439,535, the increase of receipts
over the increase of expenditures in 1869 was $1,084,371.

Your attention is respectfully called to the recommendations made by the Postmaster-General
for authority to change the rate of compensation to the main trunk railroad lines for their
services in carrying the mails; for having post-route maps executed; for reorganizing and increasing
the efficiency of the special-agency service; for increase of the mail service on the Pacific,
and for establishing mail service, under the flag of the Union, on the Atlantic; and most especially
do I call your attention to his recommendation for the total abolition of the franking privilege.
This is an abuse from which no one receives a commensurate advantage; it reduces the receipts
for postal service from 25 to 30 per cent and largely increases the service to be performed.
The method by which postage should be paid upon public matter is set forth fully in the report
of the Postmaster-General.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior shows that the quantity of public lands disposed
of during the year ending the 30th of June, 1869, was 7,666,152 acres, exceeding that of the
preceding year by 1,010,409 acres. Of this amount 2,899,544 acres were sold for cash and 2,737,365
acres entered under the homestead laws. The remainder was granted to aid in the construction
of works of internal improvement, approved to the States as swamp land, and located with warrants
and scrip. The cash receipts from all sources were $4,472,886, exceeding those of the preceding
year $2,840,140.

During the last fiscal year 23,196 names were added to the pension rolls and 4,876 dropped
therefrom, leaving at its close 187,963. The amount paid to pensioners, including the compensation
of disbursing agents, was $28,422,884, an increase of $4,411,902 on that of the previous year.
The munificence of Congress has been conspicuously manifested in its legislation for the soldiers
and sailors who suffered in the recent struggle to maintain "that unity of government which
makes us one people." The additions to the pension rolls of each successive year since the
conclusion of hostilities result in a great degree from the repeated amendments of the act
of the 14th of July, 1862, which extended its provisions to cases not falling within its original
scope. The large outlay which is thus occasioned is further increased by the more liberal allowance
bestowed since that date upon those who in the line of duty were wholly or permanently disabled.
Public opinion has given an emphatic sanction to these measures of Congress, and it will be
conceded that no part of our public burden is more cheerfully borne than that which is imposed
by this branch of the service. It necessitates for the next fiscal year, in addition to the
amount justly chargeable to the naval pension fund, an appropriation of $30,000,000.

During the year ending the 30th of September, 1869, the Patent Office issued 13,762 patents,
and its receipts were $686,389, being $213,926 more than the expenditures.

Messages and Papers of the Presidents, Ulysses S. Grant, vol. 6, p.3995

I would respectfully call your attention to the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior
for uniting the duties of supervising the education of freedmen with the other duties devolving
upon the Commissioner of Education.

If it is the desire of Congress to make the census which must be taken during the year 1870
more complete and perfect than heretofore, I would suggest early action upon any plan that
may be agreed upon. As Congress at the last session appointed a committee to take into consideration
such measures as might be deemed proper in reference to the census and report a plan, I desist
from saying more.

I recommend to your favorable consideration the claims of the Agricultural Bureau for liberal
appropriations. In a country so diversified in climate and soil as ours, and with a population
so largely dependent upon agriculture, the benefits that can be conferred by properly fostering
this Bureau are incalculable.

I desire respectfully to call the attention of Congress to the inadequate salaries of a number
of the most important offices of the Government. In this message I will not enumerate them,
but will specify only the justices of the Supreme Court. No change has been made in their salaries
for fifteen years. Within that time the labors of the court have largely increased and the
expenses of living have at least doubled. During the same time Congress has twice found it
necessary to increase largely the compensation of its own members, and the duty which it owes
to another department of the Government deserves, and will undoubtedly receive, its due consideration.

There are many subjects not alluded to in this message which might with propriety be introduced,
but I abstain, believing that your patriotism and statesmanship will suggest the topics and
the legislation most conducive to the interests of the whole people. On my part I promise a
rigid adherence to the laws and their strict enforcement.

U. S. GRANT

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 5, 1870

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

A year of peace and general prosperity to this nation has passed since the last assembling
of Congress. We have, through a kind Providence, been blessed with abundant crops, and have
been spared from complications and war with foreign nations. In our midst comparative harmony
has been restored. It is to be regretted, however, that a free exercise of the elective franchise
has by violence and intimidation been denied to citizens in exceptional cases in several of
the States lately in rebellion, and the verdict of the people has thereby been reversed. The
States of Virginia, Mississippi, and Texas have been restored to representation in our national
councils. Georgia, the only State now without representation, may confidently be expected to
take her place there also at the beginning of the new year, and then, let us hope, will be
completed the work of reconstruction. With an acquiescence on the part of the whole people
in the national obligation to pay the public debt created as the price of our Union, the pensions
to our disabled soldiers and sailors and their widows and orphans, and in the changes to the
Constitution which have been made necessary by a great rebellion, there is no reason why we
should not advance in material prosperity and happiness as no other nation ever did after so
protracted and devastating a war.

Soon after the existing war broke out in Europe the protection of the United States minister
in Paris was invoked in favor of North Germans domiciled in French territory. Instructions
were issued to grant the protection. This has been followed by an extension of American protection
to citizens of Saxony, Hesse and Saxe-Coburg, Gotha, Colombia, Portugal, Uruguay, the Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Chile, Paraguay, and Venezuela in Paris. The charge was an onerous one,
requiring constant and severe labor, as well as the exercise of patience, prudence, and good
judgment. It has been performed to the entire satisfaction of this Government, and, as I am
officially informed, equally so to the satisfaction of the Government of North Germany.

As soon as I learned that a republic had been proclaimed at Paris and that the people of France
had acquiesced in the change, the minister of the United States was directed by telegraph to
recognize it and to tender my congratulations and those of the people of the United States.
The reestablishment in France of a system of government disconnected with the dynastic traditions
of Europe appeared to be a proper subject for the felicitations of Americans. Should the present
struggle result in attaching the hearts of the French to our simpler forms of representative
government, it will be a subject of still further satisfaction to our people. While we make
no effort to impose our institutions upon the inhabitants of other countries, and while we
adhere to our traditional neutrality in civil contests elsewhere, we can not be indifferent
to the spread of American political ideas in a great and highly civilized country like France.

We were asked by the new Government to use our good offices, jointly with those of European
powers, in the interests of peace. Answer was made that the established policy and the true
interests of the United States forbade them to interfere in European questions jointly with
European powers. I ascertained, informally and unofficially, that the Government of North Germany
was not then disposed to listen to such representations from any power, and though earnestly
wishing to see the blessings of peace restored to the belligerents, with all of whom the United
States are on terms of friendship, I declined on the part of this Government to take a step
which could only result in injury to our true interests without advancing the object for which
our intervention was invoked. Should the time come when the action of the United States can
hasten the return of peace by a single hour, that action will be heartily taken. I deemed it
prudent, in view of the number of persons of German and French birth living in the United States,
to issue, soon after official notice of a state of war had been received from both belligerents,
a proclamation defining the duties of the United States as a neutral and the obligations of
persons residing within their territory to observe their laws and the laws of nations. This
proclamation was followed by others, as circumstances seemed to call for them. The people,
thus acquainted in advance of their duties and obligations, have assisted in preventing violations
of the neutrality of the United States.

It is not understood that the condition of the insurrection in Cuba has materially changed
since the close of the last session of Congress. In an early stage of the contest the authorities
of Spain inaugurated a system of arbitrary arrests, of close confinement, and of military trial
and execution of persons suspected of complicity with the insurgents, and of summary embargo
of their properties, and sequestration of their revenues by executive warrant. Such proceedings,
so far as they affected the persons or property of citizens of the United States, were in violation
of the provisions of the treaty of 1795 between the United States and Spain.

Representations of injuries resulting to several persons claiming to be citizens of the United
States by reason of such violations were made to the Spanish Government. From April, 1869,
to June last the Spanish minister at Washington had been clothed with a limited power to aid
in redressing such wrongs. That power was found to be withdrawn, "in view," as it was said,
"of the favorable situation in which the island of Cuba" then "was," which, however, did not
lead to a revocation or suspension of the extraordinary and arbitrary functions exercised by
the executive power in Cuba, and we were obliged to make our complaints at Madrid. In the negotiations
thus opened, and still pending there, the United States only claimed that for the future the
rights secured to their citizens by treaty should be respected in Cuba, and that as to the
past a joint tribunal should be established in the United States with full jurisdiction over
all such claims. Before such an impartial tribunal each claimant would be required to prove
his case. On the other hand, Spain would be at liberty to traverse every material fact, and
thus complete equity would be done. A case which at one time threatened seriously to affect
the relations between the United States and Spain has already been disposed of in this way.
The claim of the owners of the Colonel Lloyd Aspinwall for the illegal seizure and detention
of that vessel was referred to arbitration by mutual consent, and has resulted in an award
to the United States, for the owners, of the sum of $19,702.50 in gold. Another and long-pending
claim of like nature, that of the whaleship Canada, has been disposed of by friendly arbitrament
during the present year. It was referred, by the joint consent of Brazil and the United States,
to the decision of Sir Edward Thornton, Her Britannic Majesty's minister at Washington, who
kindly undertook the laborious task of examining the voluminous mass of correspondence and
testimony submitted by the two Governments, and awarded to the United States the sum of $100,740.09
in gold, which has since been paid by the Imperial Government. These recent examples show that
the mode which the United States have proposed to Spain for adjusting the pending claims is
just and feasible, and that it may be agreed to by either nation without dishonor. It is to
be hoped that this moderate demand may be acceded to by Spain without further delay. Should
the pending negotiations, unfortunately and unexpectedly, be without result, it will then become
my duty to communicate that fact to Congress and invite its action on the subject.

The long-deferred peace conference between Spain and the allied South American Republics has
been inaugurated in Washington under the auspices of the United States. Pursuant to the recommendation
contained in the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 17th of December, 1866,
the executive department of the Government offered its friendly offices for the promotion of
peace and harmony between Spain and the allied Republics. Hesitations and obstacles occurred
to the acceptance of the offer. Ultimately, however, a conference was arranged, and was opened
in this city on the 29th of October last, at which I authorized the Secretary of State to preside.
It was attended by the ministers of Spain, Peru, Chile, and Ecuador. In consequence of the
absence of a representative from Bolivia, the conference was adjourned until the attendance
of a plenipotentiary from that Republic could be secured or other measures could be adopted
toward compassing its objects.

The allied and other Republics of Spanish origin on this continent may see in this fact a new
proof of our sincere interest in their welfare, of our desire to see them blessed with good
governments, capable of maintaining order and of preserving their respective territorial integrity,
and of our sincere wish to extend our own commercial and social relations with them. The time
is not probably far distant when, in the natural course of events, the European political connection
with this continent will cease. Our policy should be shaped, in view of this probability, so
as to ally the commercial interests of the Spanish American States more closely to our own,
and thus give the United States all the preeminence and all the advantage which Mr. Monroe,
Mr. Adams, and Mr. Clay contemplated when they proposed to join in the congress of Panama.

During the last session of Congress a treaty for the annexation of the Republic of San Domingo
to the United States failed to receive the requisite two-thirds vote of the Senate. I was thoroughly
convinced then that the best interests of this country, commercially and materially, demanded
its ratification. Time has only confirmed me in this view. I now firmly believe that the moment
it is known that the United States have entirely abandoned the project of accepting as a part
of its territory the island of San Domingo a free port will be negotiated for by European nations
in the Bay of Samana. A large commercial city will spring up, to which we will be tributary
without receiving corresponding benefits, and then will be seen the folly of our rejecting
so great a prize. The Government of San Domingo has voluntarily sought this annexation. It
is a weak power, numbering probably less than 120,000 souls, and yet possessing one of the
richest territories under the sun, capable of supporting a population of 10,000,000 people
in luxury. The people of San Domingo are not capable of maintaining themselves in their present
condition, and must look for outside support. They yearn for the protection of our free institutions
and laws, our progress and civilization. Shall we refuse them?

The acquisition of San Domingo is desirable because of its geographical position. It commands
the entrance to the Caribbean Sea and the Isthmus transit of commerce. It possesses the richest
soil, best and most capacious harbors, most salubrious climate, and the most valuable products
of the forests, mine, and soil of any of the West India Islands. Its possession by us will
in a few years build up a coastwise commerce of immense magnitude, which will go far toward
restoring to us our lost merchant marine. It will give to us those articles which we consume
so largely and do not produce, thus equalizing our exports and imports. In case of foreign
war it will give us command of all the islands referred to, and thus prevent an enemy from
ever again possessing himself of rendezvous upon our very coast. At present our coast trade
between the States bordering on the Atlantic and those bordering on the Gulf of Mexico is cut
into by the Bahamas and the Antilies. Twice we must, as it were, pass through foreign countries
to get by sea from Georgia to the west coast of Florida.

San Domingo, with a stable government, under which her immense resources can be developed,
will give remunerative wages to tens of thousands of laborers not now upon the island. This
labor will take advantage of every available means of transportation to abandon the adjacent
islands and seek the blessings of freedom and its sequence--each inhabitant receiving the reward
of his own labor. Porto Rico and Cuba will have to abolish slavery, as a measure of self-preservation,
to retain their laborers.

San Domingo will become a large consumer of the products of Northern farms and manufactories.
The cheap rate at which her citizens can be furnished with food, tools, and machinery will
make it necessary that contiguous islands should have the same advantages in order to compete
in the production of sugar, coffee, tobacco, tropical fruits, etc. This will open to us a still
wider market for our products. The production of our own supply of these articles will cut
off more than one hundred millions of our annual imports, besides largely increasing our exports.
With such a picture it is easy to see how our large debt abroad is ultimately to be extinguished.
With a balance of trade against us (including interest on bonds held by foreigners and money
spent by our citizens traveling in foreign lands) equal to the entire yield of the precious
metals in this country, it is not so easy to see how this result is to be otherwise accomplished.

The acquisition of San Domingo is an adherence to the "Monroe doctrine;" it is a measure of
national protection; it is asserting our just claim to a controlling influence over the great
commercial traffic soon to flow from west to east by way of the Isthmus of Darien; it is to
build up our merchant marine; it is to furnish new markets for the products of our farms, shops,
and manufactories; it is to make slavery insupportable in Cuba and Porto Rico at once, and
ultimately so in Brazil; it is to settle the unhappy condition of Cuba and end an exterminating
conflict; it is to provide honest means of paying our honest debts without overtaxing the people;
it is to furnish our citizens with the necessaries of everyday life at cheaper rates than ever
before; and it is, in fine, a rapid stride toward that greatness which the intelligence, industry,
and enterprise of the citizens of the United States entitle this country to assume among nations.

In view of the importance of this question, I earnestly urge upon Congress early action expressive
of its views as to the best means of acquiring San Domingo. My suggestion is that by joint
resolution of the two Houses of Congress the Executive be authorized to appoint a commission
to negotiate a treaty with the authorities of San Domingo for the acquisition of that island,
and that an appropriation be made to defray the expenses of such a commission. The question
may then be determined, either by the action of the Senate upon the treaty or the joint action
of the two Houses of Congress upon a resolution of annexation, as in the case of the acquisition
of Texas. So convinced am I of the advantages to flow from the acquisition of San Domingo,
and of the great disadvantages--I might almost say calamities--to flow from nonacquisition,
that I believe the subject has only to be investigated to be approved.

It is to be regretted that our representations in regard to the injurious effects, especially
upon the revenue of the United States, of the policy of the Mexican Government in exempting
from impost duties a large tract of its territory on our borders have not only been fruitless,
but that it is even proposed in that country to extend the limits within which the privilege
adverted to has hitherto been enjoyed. The expediency of taking into your serious consideration
proper measures for countervailing the policy referred to will, it is presumed, engage your
earnest attention.

It is the obvious interest, especially of neighboring nations, to provide against impunity
to those who may have committed high crimes within their borders and who may have sought refuge
abroad. For this purpose extradition treaties have been concluded with several of the Central
American Republics, and others are in progress.

The sense of Congress is desired, as early as may be convenient, upon the proceedings of the
commission on claims against Venezuela, as communicated in my messages of March 16, 1869, March
1, 1870, and March 31, 1870. It has not been deemed advisable to distribute any of the money
which has been received from that Government until Congress shall have acted on the subject.

The massacres of French and Russian residents at Tien-Tsin, under circumstances of great barbarity,
was supposed by some to have been premeditated, and to indicate a purpose among the populace
to exterminate foreigners in the Chinese Empire. The evidence fails to establish such a supposition,
but shows a complicity between the local authorities and the mob. The Government at Peking,
however, seems to have been disposed to fulfill its treaty obligations so far as it was able
to do so. Unfortunately, the news of the war between the German States and France reached China
soon after the massacre. It would appear that the popular mind became possessed with the idea
that this contest, extending to Chinese waters, would neutralize the Christian influence and
power, and that the time was coming when the superstitious masses might expel all foreigners
and restore mandarin influence. Anticipating trouble from this cause, I invited France and
North Germany to make an authorized suspension of hostilities in the East (where they were
temporarily suspended by act of the commanders), and to act together for the future protection
in China of the lives and properties of Americans and Europeans.

Since the adjournment of Congress the ratifications of the treaty with Great Britain for abolishing
the mixed courts for the suppression of the slave trade have been exchanged. It is believed
that the slave trade is now confined to the eastern coast of Africa, whence the slaves are
taken to Arabian markets.

The ratifications of the naturalization convention between Great Britain and the United States
have also been exchanged during the recess, and thus a long-standing dispute between the two
Governments has been settled in accordance with the principles always contended for by the
United States.

In April last, while engaged in locating a military reservation near Pembina, a corps of engineers
discovered that the commonly received boundary line between the United States and the British
possessions at that place is about 4,700 feet south of the true position of the forty-ninth
parallel, and that the line, when run on what is now supposed to be the true position of that
parallel, would leave the fort of the Hudsons Bay Company at Pembina within the territory of
the United States. This information being communicated to the British Government, I was requested
to consent, and did consent, that the British occupation of the fort of the Hudsons Bay Company
should continue for the present. I deem it important, however, that this part of the boundary
line should be definitely fixed by a joint commission of the two Governments, and I submit
herewith estimates of the expense of such a commission on the part of the United States and
recommend that an appropriation be made for that purpose. The land boundary has already been
fixed and marked from the summit of the Rocky Mountains to the Georgian Bay. It should now
be in like manner marked from the Lake of the Woods to the summit of the Rocky Mountains.

I regret to say that no conclusion has been reached for the adjustment of the claims against
Great Britain growing out of the course adopted by that Government during the rebellion. The
cabinet of London, so far as its views have been expressed, does not appear to be willing to
concede that Her Majesty's Government was guilty of any negligence, or did or permitted any
act during the war by which the United States has just cause of complaint. Our firm and unalterable
convictions are directly the reverse. I therefore recommend to Congress to authorize the appointment
of a commission to take proof of the amount and the ownership of these several claims, on notice
to the representative of Her Majesty at Washington, and that authority be given for the settlement
of these claims by the United States, so that the Government shall have the ownership of the
private claims, as well as the responsible control of all the demands against Great Britain.
It can not be necessary to add that whenever Her Majesty's Government shall entertain a desire
for a full and friendly adjustment of these claims the United States will enter upon their
consideration with an earnest desire for a conclusion consistent with the honor and dignity
of both nations.

The course pursued by the Canadian authorities toward the fishermen of the United States during
the past season has not been marked by a friendly feeling. By the first article of the convention
of 1818 between Great Britain and the United States it was agreed that the inhabitants of the
United States should have forever, in common with British subjects, the right of taking fish
in certain waters therein defined. In the waters not included in the limits named in the convention
(within 3 miles of parts of the British coast) it has been the custom for many years to give
to intruding fishermen of the United States a reasonable warning of their violation of the
technical rights of Great Britain. The Imperial Government is understood to have delegated
the whole or a share of its jurisdiction or control of these inshore fishing grounds to the
colonial authority known as the Dominion of Canada, and this semi-independent but irresponsible
agent has exercised its delegated powers in an unfriendly way. Vessels have been seized without
notice or warning, in violation of the custom previously prevailing, and have been taken into
the colonial ports, their voyages broken up, and the vessels condemned. There is reason to
believe that this unfriendly and vexatious treatment was designed to bear harshly upon the
hardy fishermen of the United States, with a view to political effect upon this Government.
The statutes of the Dominion of Canada assume a still broader and more untenable jurisdiction
over the vessels of the United States. They authorize officers or persons to bring vessels
hovering within 3 marine miles of any of the coasts, bays, creeks, or harbors of Canada into
port, to search the cargo, to examine the master on oath touching the cargo and voyage, and
to inflict upon him a heavy pecuniary penalty if true answers are not given; and if such a
vessel is found "preparing to fish" within 3 marine miles of any of such coasts, bays, creeks,
or harbors without a license, or after the expiration of the period named in the last license
granted to it, they provide that the vessel, with her tackle, etc., shall be forfeited. It
is not known that any condemnations have been made under this statute. Should the authorities
of Canada attempt to enforce it, it will become my duty to take such steps as may be necessary
to protect the rights of the citizens of the United States.

It has been claimed by Her Majesty's officers that the fishing vessels of the United States
have no right to enter the open ports of the British possessions in North America, except for
the purposes of shelter and repairing damages, of purchasing wood and obtaining water; that
they have no right to enter at the British custom-houses or to trade there except in the purchase
of wood and water, and that they must depart within twenty-four hours after notice to leave.
It is not known that any seizure of a fishing vessel carrying the flag of the United States
has been made under this claim. So far as the claim is founded on an alleged construction of
he convention of 1818, it can not be acquiesced in by the United States. It is hoped that it
will not be insisted on by Her Majesty's Government.

During the conferences which preceded the negotiation of the convention of 1818 the British
commissioners proposed to expressly exclude the fishermen of the United States from "the privilege
of carrying on trade with any of His Britannic Majesty's subjects residing within the limits
assigned for their use;" and also that it should not be "lawful for the vessels of the United
States engaged in said fishery to have on board any goods, wares, or merchandise whatever,
except such as may be necessary for the prosecution of their voyages to and from the said fishing
grounds: and any vessel of the United States which shall contravene this regulation may be
seized, condemned, and confiscated, with her cargo."

This proposition, which is identical with the construction now put upon the language of the
convention, was emphatically rejected by the American commissioners, and thereupon was abandoned
by the British plenipotentiaries, and Article I, as it stands in the convention, was substituted.

If, however, it be said that this claim is founded on provincial or colonial statutes, and
not upon the convention, this Government can not but regard them as unfriendly, and in contravention
of the spirit, if not of the letter, of the treaty, for the faithful execution of which the
Imperial Government is alone responsible.

Anticipating that an attempt may possibly be made by the Canadian authorities in the coming
season to repeat their unneighborly acts toward our fishermen, I recommend you to confer upon
the Executive the power to suspend by proclamation the operation of the laws authorizing the
transit of goods, wares, and merchandise in bond across the territory of the United States
to Canada, and, further, should such an extreme measure become necessary, to suspend the operation
of any laws whereby the vessels of the Dominion of Canada are permitted to enter the waters
of the United States.

A like unfriendly disposition has been manifested on the part of Canada in the maintenance
of a claim of right to exclude the citizens of the United States from the navigation of the
St. Lawrence. This river constitutes a natural outlet to the ocean for eight States, with an
aggregate population of about 17,600,000 inhabitants, and with an aggregate tonnage of 661,367
tons upon the waters which discharge into it. The foreign commerce of our ports on these waters
is open to British competition, and the major part of it is done in British bottoms.

If the American seamen be excluded from this natural avenue to the ocean, the monopoly of the
direct commerce of the lake ports with the Atlantic would be in foreign hands, their vessels
on transatlantic voyages having an access to our lake ports which would be denied to American
vessels on similar voyages. To state such a proposition is to refute its justice.

During the Administration of Mr. John Quincy Adams Mr. Clay unanswerably demonstrated the natural
right of the citizens of the United States to the navigation of this river, claiming that the
act of the congress of Vienna in opening the Rhine and other rivers to all nations showed the
judgment of European jurists and statesmen that the inhabitants of a country through which
a navigable river passes have a natural right to enjoy the navigation of that river to and
into the sea, even though passing through the territories of another power. This right does
not exclude the coequal right of the sovereign possessing the territory through which the river
debouches into the sea to make such regulations relative to the police of the navigation as
may be reasonably necessary; but those regulations should be framed in a liberal spirit of
comity, and should not impose needless burdens upon the commerce which has the right of transit.
It has been found in practice more advantageous to arrange these regulations by mutual agreement.
The United States are ready to make any reasonable arrangement as to the police of the St.
Lawrence which may be suggested by Great Britain.

If the claim made by Mr. Clay was just when the population of States bordering on the shores
of the Lakes was only 3,400,000, it now derives greater force and equity from the increased
population, wealth, production, and tonnage of the States on the Canadian frontier. Since Mr.
Clay advanced his argument in behalf of our right the principle for which he contended has
been frequently, and by various nations, recognized by law or by treaty, and has been extended
to several other great rivers. By the treaty concluded at Mayence in 1831 the Rhine was declared
free from the point where it is first navigable into the sea. By the convention between Spain
and Portugal concluded in 1835 the navigation of the Douro throughout its whole extent was
made free for the subjects of both Crowns. In 1853 the Argentine Confederation by treaty threw
open the free navigation of the Parana and the Uruguay to the merchant vessels of all nations.
In 1856 the Crimean War was closed by a treaty which provided for the free navigation of the
Danube. In 1858 Bolivia by treaty declared that it regarded the rivers Amazon and La Plata,
in accordance with fixed principles of national law, as highways or channels opened by nature
for the commerce of all nations. In 1859 the Paraguay was made free by treaty, and in December,
1866, the Emperor of Brazil by imperial decree declared the Amazon to be open to the frontier
of Brazil to the merchant ships of all nations. The greatest living British authority on this
subject, while asserting the abstract right of the British claim, says: It seems difficult
to deny that Great Britain may ground her refusal upon strict law, but it is equally difficult
to deny, first, that in so doing she exercises harshly an extreme and hard law; secondly, that
her conduct with respect to the navigation of the St. Lawrence is in glaring and discreditable
inconsistency with her conduct with respect to the navigation of the Mississippi. On the ground
that she possessed a small domain in which the Mississippi took its rise, she insisted on the
right to navigate the entire volume of its waters. On the ground that she possesses both banks
of the St. Lawrence, where it disembogues itself into the sea, she denies to the United States
the right of navigation, though about one-half of the waters of Lakes Ontario. Erie, Huron,
and Superior, and the whole of Lake Michigan, through which the river flows, are the property
of the United States. The whole nation is interested in securing cheap transportation from
the agricultural States of the West to the Atlantic Seaboard. To the citizens of those States
it secures a greater return for their labor; to the inhabitants of the seaboard it affords
cheaper food; to the nation, an increase in the annual surplus of wealth. It is hoped that
the Government of Great Britain will see the justice of abandoning the narrow and inconsistent
claim to which her Canadian Provinces have urged her adherence.

Our depressed commerce is a subject to which I called your special attention at the last session,
and suggested that we will in the future have to look more to the countries south of us, and
to China and Japan, for its revival. Our representatives to all these Governments have exerted
their influence to encourage trade between the United States and the countries to which they
are accredited. But the fact exists that the carrying is done almost entirely in foreign bottoms,
and while this state of affairs exists we can not control our due share of the commerce of
the world; that between the Pacific States and China and Japan is about all the carrying trade
now conducted in American vessels. I would recommend a liberal policy toward that line of American
steamers--one that will insure its success, and even increased usefulness.

The cost of building iron vessels, the only ones that can compete with foreign ships in the
carrying trade, is so much greater in the United States than in foreign countries that without
some assistance from the Government they can not be successfully built here. There will be
several propositions laid before Congress in the course of the present session looking to a
remedy for this evil. Even if it should be at some cost to the National Treasury, I hope such
encouragement will be given as will secure American shipping on the high seas and American
shipbuilding at home.

The condition of the archives at the Department of State calls for the early action of Congress.
The building now rented by that Department is a frail structure, at an inconvenient distance
from the Executive Mansion and from the other Departments, is ill adapted to the purpose for
which it is used, has not capacity to accommodate the archives, and is not fireproof. Its remote
situation, its slender construction, and the absence of a supply of water in the neighborhood
leave but little hope of safety for either the building or its contents in case of the accident
of a fire. Its destruction would involve the loss of the rolls containing the original acts
and resolutions of Congress, of the historic records of the Revolution and of the Confederation,
of the whole series of diplomatic and consular archives since the adoption of the Constitution,
and of the many other valuable records and papers left with that Department when it was the
principal depository of the governmental archives. I recommend an appropriation for the construction
of a building for the Department of State.

I recommend to your consideration the propriety of transferring to the Department of the Interior,
to which they seem more appropriately to belong, all powers and duties in relation to the Territories
with which the Department of State is now charged by law or usage; and from the Interior Department
to the War Department the Pension Bureau, so far as it regulates the payment of soldiers' pensions.
I would further recommend that the payment of naval pensions be transferred to one of the bureaus
of the Navy Department.

The estimates for the expenses of the Government for the next fiscal year are $18,244,346.01
less than for the current one, but exceed the appropriations for the present year for the same
items $8,972,127.56. In this estimate, however, is included $22,338,278.37 for public works
heretofore begun under Congressional provision, and of which only so much is asked as Congress
may choose to give. The appropriation for the same works for the present fiscal year was $11,984,518.08.

The average value of gold, as compared with national currency, for the whole of the year 1869
was about 134, and for eleven months of 1870 the same relative value has been about 115. The
approach to a specie basis is very gratifying, but the fact can not be denied that the instability
of the value of our currency is prejudicial to our prosperity, and tends to keep up prices,
to the detriment of trade. The evils of a depreciated and fluctuating currency are so great
that now, when the premium on gold has fallen so much, it would seem that the time has arrived
when by wise and prudent legislation Congress should look to a policy which would place our
currency at par with gold at no distant day.

The tax collected from the people has been reduced more than $80,000,000 per annum. By steadiness
in our present course there is no reason why in a few short years the national tax gatherer
may not disappear from the door of the citizen almost entirely. With the revenue stamp dispensed
by postmasters in every community, a tax upon liquors of all sorts and tobacco in all its forms,
and by a wise adjustment of the tariff, which will put a duty only upon those articles which
we could dispense with, known as luxuries, and on those which we use more of than we produce,
revenue enough may be raised after a few years of peace and consequent reduction of indebtedness
to fulfill all our obligations. A further reduction of expenses, in addition to a reduction
of interest account, may be relied on to make this practicable. Revenue reform, if it means
this, has my hearty support. If it implies a collection of all the revenue for the support
of the Government, for the payment of principal and interest of the public debt, pensions,
etc., by directly taxing the people, then I am against revenue reform, and confidently believe
the people are with me. If it means failure to provide the necessary means to defray all the
expenses of Government, and thereby repudiation of the public debt and pensions, then I am
still more opposed to such kind of revenue reform. Revenue reform has not been defined by any
of its advocates to my knowledge, but seems to be accepted as something which is to supply
every man's wants without any cost or effort on his part.

A true revenue reform can not be made in a day, but must be the work of national legislation
and of time. As soon as the revenue can be dispensed with, all duty should be removed from
coffee, tea and other articles of universal use not produced by ourselves. The necessities
of the country compel us to collect revenue from our imports. An army of assessors and collectors
is not a pleasant sight to the citizen, but that of a tariff for revenue is necessary. Such
a tariff, so far as it acts as an encouragement to home production, affords employment to labor
at living wages, in contrast to the pauper labor of the Old World, and also in the development
of home resources.

Under the act of Congress of the 15th day of July, 1870, the Army has gradually been reduced,
so that on the 1st day of January, 1871, the number of commissioned officers and men will not
exceed the number contemplated by that law.

The War Department building is an old structure, not fireproof, and entirely inadequate in
dimensions to our present wants. Many thousands of dollars are now paid annually for rent of
private buildings to accommodate the various bureaus of the Department. I recommend an appropriation
for a new War Department building, suited to the present and growing wants of the nation.

The report of the Secretary of War shows a very satisfactory reduction in the expenses of the
Army for the last fiscal year. For details you are referred to his accompanying report.

The expenses of the Navy for the whole of the last year--i.e., from December 1, 1869, the date
of the last report--are less than $19,000,000, or about $1,000,000 less than they were the
previous year. The expenses since the commencement of this fiscal year--i.e., since July 1--show
for the five months a decrease of over $2,400,000 from those of the corresponding months last
year. The estimates for the current year were $28,205,671.37. Those for next year are $20,683,317,
with $955,100 additional for necessary permanent improvements. These estimates are made closely
for the mere maintenance of the naval establishment as now is, without much in the nature of
permanent improvement. The appropriations made for the last and current years were evidently
intended by Congress, and are sufficient only, to keep the Navy on its present footing by the
repairing and refitting of our old ships.

This policy must, of course, gradually but surely destroy the Navy, and it is in itself far
from economical, as each year that it is pursued the necessity for mere repairs in ships and
navy-yards becomes more imperative and more costly, and our current expenses are annually increased
for the mere repair of ships, many of which must soon become unsafe and useless. I hope during
the present session of Congress to be able to submit to it a plan by which naval vessels can
be built and repairs made with great saving upon the present cost.

It can hardly be wise statesmanship in a Government which represents a country with over 5,000
miles of coast line on both oceans, exclusive of Alaska, and containing 40,000,000 progressive
people, with relations of every nature with almost every foreign country, to rest with such
inadequate means of enforcing any foreign policy, either of protection or redress. Separated
by the ocean from the nations of the Eastern Continent, our Navy is our only means of direct
protection to our citizens abroad or for the enforcement of any foreign policy.

The accompanying report of the Postmaster-General shows a most satisfactory working of that
Department. With the adoption of the recommendations contained therein, particularly those
relating to a reform in the franking privilege and the adoption of the "correspondence cards,"
a self-sustaining postal system may speedily be looked for, and at no distant day a further
reduction of the rate of postage be attained.

I recommend authorization by Congress to the Postmaster-General and Attorney-General to issue
all commissions to officials appointed through their respective Departments. At present these
commissions, where appointments are Presidential, are issued by the State Department. The law
in all the Departments of Government, except those of the Post-Office and of Justice, authorizes
each to issue its own commissions.

Always favoring practical reforms, I respectfully call your attention to one abuse of long
standing which I would like to see remedied by this Congress. It is a reform in the civil service
of the country. I would have it go beyond the mere fixing of the tenure of office of clerks
and employees who do not require "the advice and consent of the Senate" to make their appointments
complete. I would have it govern, not the tenure, but the manner of making all appointments.
There is no duty which so much embarrasses the Executive and heads of Departments as that of
appointments, nor is there any such arduous and thankless labor imposed on Senators and Representatives
as that of finding places for constituents. The present system does not secure the best men,
and often not even fit men, for public place. The elevation and purification of the civil service
of the Government will be hailed with approval by the whole people of the United States.

Reform in the management of Indian affairs has received the special attention of the Administration
from its inauguration to the present day. The experiment of making it a missionary work was
tried with a few agencies given to the denomination of Friends, and has been found to work
most advantageously. All agencies and superintendencies not so disposed of were given to officers
of the Army. The act of Congress reducing the Army renders army officers ineligible for civil
positions. Indian agencies being civil offices, I determined to give all the agencies to such
religious denominations as had heretofore established missionaries among the Indians, and perhaps
to some other denominations who would undertake the work on the same terms--i.e., as a missionary
work. The societies selected are allowed to name their own agents, subject to the approval
of the Executive, and are expected to watch over them and aid them as missionaries, to Christianize
and civilize the Indian, and to train him in the arts of peace. The Government watches over
the official acts of these agents, and requires of them as strict an accountability as if they
were appointed in any other manner. I entertain the confident hope that the policy now pursued
will in a few years bring all the Indians upon reservations, where they will live in houses,
and have schoolhouses and churches, and will be pursuing peaceful and self-sustaining avocations,
and where they may be visited by the law-abiding white man with the same impunity that he now
visits the civilized white settlements. I call your special attention to the report of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs for full information on this subject.

During the last fiscal year 8,095,413 acres of public land were disposed of. Of this quantity
3,698,910.05 acres were taken under the homestead law and 2,159,515.81 acres sold for cash.
The remainder was located with military warrants, college or Indian scrip, or applied in satisfaction
of grants to railroads or for other public uses. The entries under the homestead law during
the last year covered 961,545 acres more than those during the preceding year. Surveys have
been vigorously prosecuted to the full extent of the means applicable to the purpose. The quantity
of land in market will amply supply the present demand. The claim of the settler under the
homestead or the preemption laws is not, however, limited to lands subject to sale at private
entry. Any unappropriated surveyed public land may, to a limited amount, be acquired under
the former laws if the party entitled to enter under them will comply with the requirements
they prescribe in regard to the residence and cultivation. The actual settler's preference
right of purchase is even broader, and extends to lands which were unsurveyed at the time of
his settlement. His right was formerly confined within much narrower limits, and at one period
of our history was conferred only by special statutes. They were enacted from time to time
to legalize what was then regarded as an unauthorized intrusion upon the national domain. The
opinion that the public lands should be regarded chiefly as a source of revenue is no longer
maintained. The rapid settlement and successful cultivation of them are now justly considered
of more importance to our well-being than is the fund which the sale of them would produce.
The remarkable growth and prosperity of our new States and Territories attest the wisdom of
the legislation which invites the tiller of the soil to secure a permanent home on terms within
the reach of all. The pioneer who incurs the dangers and privations of a frontier life, and
thus aids in laying the foundation of new commonwealths, renders a signal service to his country,
and is entitled to its special favor and protection. These laws secure that object and largely
promote the general welfare. They should therefore be cherished as a permanent feature of our
land system.

Good faith requires us to give full effect to existing grants. The time-honored and beneficent
policy of setting apart certain sections of public land for educational purposes in the new
States should be continued. When ample provision shall have been made for these objects, I
submit as a question worthy of serious consideration whether the residue of our national domain
should not be wholly disposed of under the provisions the homestead and preemption laws.

In addition to the swamp and overflowed lands granted to the States in which they are situated,
the lands taken under the agricultural-college acts and for internal-improvement purposes under
the act of September, 1841, and the acts supplemental thereto, there had been conveyed up to
the close of the last fiscal year, by patent or other equivalent title, to States and corporations
27,836,257.63 acres for railways, canals, and wagon roads. It is estimated that an additional
quantity of 174,735,523 acres is still due under grants for like uses. The policy of thus aiding
the States in building works of internal improvement was inaugurated more than forty years
since in the grants to Indiana and Illinois, to aid those States in opening canals to connect
the waters of the Wabash with those of Lake Erie and the waters of the Illinois with those
of Lake Michigan. It was followed, with some modifications, in the grant to Illinois of alternate
sections of public land within certain limits of the Illinois Central Railway. Fourteen States
and sundry corporations have received similar subsidies in connection with railways completed
or in process of construction. As the reserved sections are rated at the double minimum, the
sale of them at the enhanced price has thus in many instances indemnified the Treasury for
the granted lands. The construction of some of these thoroughfares has undoubtedly given a
vigorous impulse to the development of our resources and the settlement of the more distant
portions of the country. It may, however, be well insisted that much of our legislation in
this regard has been characterized by indiscriminate and profuse liberality. The United States
should not loan their credit in aid of any enterprise undertaken by States or corporations,
nor grant lands in any instance, unless the projected work is of acknowledged national importance.
I am strongly inclined to the opinion that it is inexpedient and unnecessary to bestow subsidies
of either description; but should Congress determine otherwise I earnestly recommend that the
right of settlers and of the public be more effectually secured and protected by appropriate
legislation.

During the year ending September 30, 1870, there were filed in the Patent Office 19,411 applications
for patents, 3,374 caveats, and 160 applications for the extension of patents. Thirteen thousand
six hundred and twenty-two patents, including reissues and designs, were issued, 1,010 extended,
and 1,089 allowed, but not issued by reason of the nonpayment of the final fees. The receipts
of the office during the year were $136,304.29 in excess of its expenditures.

The work of the Census Bureau has been energetically prosecuted. The preliminary report, containing
much information of special value and interest, will be ready for delivery during the present
session. The remaining volumes will be completed with all the dispatch consistent with perfect
accuracy in arranging and classifying the returns. We shall thus at no distant day be furnished
with an authentic record of our condition and resources. It will, I doubt not, attest the growing
prosperity of the country, although during the decade which has just closed it was so severely
tried by the great war waged to maintain its integrity and to secure and perpetuate our free
institutions.

During the last fiscal year the sum paid to pensioners, including the cost of disbursement,
was $27,780,811.11, and 1,758 bounty-land warrants were issued. At its close 198,686 names
were on the pension rolls.

The labors of the Pension Office have been directed to the severe scrutiny of the evidence
submitted in favor of new claims and to the discovery of fictitious claims which have been
heretofore allowed. The appropriation for the employment of special agents for the investigation
of frauds has been judiciously used, and the results obtained have been of unquestionable benefit
to the service.

The subjects of education and agriculture are of great interest to the success of our republican
institutions, happiness, and grandeur as a nation. In the interest of one a bureau has been
established in the Interior Department--the Bureau of Education; and in the interest of the
other, a separate Department, that of Agriculture. I believe great general good is to flow
from the operations of both these Bureaus if properly fostered. I can not commend to your careful
consideration too highly the reports of the Commissioners of Education and of Agriculture,
nor urge too strongly such liberal legislation as to secure their efficiency.

In conclusion I would sum up the policy of the Administration to be a thorough enforcement
of every law; a faithful collection of every tax provided for; economy in the disbursement
of the same; a prompt payment of every debt of the nation; a reduction of taxes as rapidly
as the requirements of the country will admit; reductions of taxation and tariff, to be so
arranged as to afford the greatest relief to the greatest number; honest and fair dealings
with all other peoples, to the end that war, with all its blighting consequences, may be avoided,
but without surrendering any right or obligation due to us; a reform in the treatment of Indians
and in the whole civil service of the country; and, finally, in securing a pure, untrammeled
ballot, where every man entitled to cast a vote may do so, just once at each election, without
fear of molestation or proscription on account of his political faith, nativity, of color.

U. S. GRANT

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 4, 1871

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In addressing my third annual message to the law-making branch of the Government it is gratifying
to be able to state that during the past year success has generally attended the effort to
execute all laws found upon the statute books. The policy has been not to inquire into the
wisdom of laws already enacted, but to learn their spirit and intent and to enforce them accordingly.

The past year has, under a wise Providence, been one of general prosperity to the nation. It
has, however, been attended with more than usual chastisements in the loss of life and property
by storm and fire. These disasters have served to call forth the best elements of human nature
in our country and to develop a friendship for us on the part of foreign nations which goes
far toward alleviating the distresses occasioned by these calamities. The benevolent, who have
so generously shared their means with the victims of these misfortunes, will reap their reward
in the consciousness of having performed a noble act and in receiving the grateful thanks of
men, women, and children whose sufferings they have relieved.

The relations of the United States with foreign powers continue to be friendly. The year has
been an eventful one in witnessing two great nations, speaking one language and having one
lineage, settling by peaceful arbitration disputes of long standing and liable at any time
to bring those nations into bloody and costly conflict. An example has thus been set which,
if successful in its final issue, may be followed by other civilized nations, and finally be
the means of returning to productive industry millions of men now maintained to settle the
disputes of nations by the bayonet and the broadside.

I transmit herewith a copy of the treaty alluded to, which has been concluded since the adjournment
of Congress with Her Britannic Majesty, and a copy of the protocols of the conferences of the
commissioners by whom it was negotiated. This treaty provides methods for adjusting the questions
pending between the two nations.

Various questions are to be adjusted by arbitration. I recommend Congress at an early day to
make the necessary provision for the tribunal at Geneva and for the several commissioners on
the part of the United States called for by the treaty.

His Majesty the King of Italy, the President of the Swiss Confederation, and His Majesty the
Emperor of Brazil have each consented, on the joint request of the two powers, to name an arbiter
for the tribunal at Geneva. I have caused my thanks to be suitably expressed for the readiness
with which the joint request has been complied with, by the appointment of gentlemen of eminence
and learning to these important positions.

His Majesty the Emperor of Germany has been pleased to comply with the joint request of the
two Governments, and has consented to act as the arbitrator of the disputed water boundary
between the United States and Great Britain.

The contracting parties in the treaty have undertaken to regard as between themselves certain
principles of public law, for which the United States have contended from the commencement
of their history. They have also agreed to bring those principles to the knowledge of the other
maritime powers and to invite them to accede to them. Negotiations are going on as to the form
of the note by which the invitation is to be extended to the other powers.

I recommend the legislation necessary on the part of the United States to bring into operation
the articles of the treaty relating to the fisheries and to the other matters touching the
relations of the United States toward the British North American possessions, to become operative
so soon as the proper legislation shall be had on the part of Great Britain and its possessions.
It is much to be desired that this legislation may become operative before the fishermen of
the United States begin to make their arrangements for the coming season.

I have addressed a communication, of which a copy is transmitted herewith, to the governors
of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin, urging upon the
governments of those States, respectively, the necessary action on their part to carry into
effect the object of the article of the treaty which contemplates the use of the canals, on
either side, connected with the navigation of the lakes and rivers forming the boundary, on
terms of equality, by the inhabitants of both countries. It is hoped that the importance of
the object and the benefits to flow therefrom will secure the speedy approval and legislative
sanction of the States concerned.

I renew the recommendation for an appropriation for determining the true position of the forty-ninth
parallel of latitude where it forms the boundary between the United States and the British
North American possessions, between the Lake of the Woods and the summit of the Rocky Mountains.
The early action of Congress on this recommendation would put it in the power of the War Department
to place a force in the field during the next summer.

The resumption of diplomatic relations between France and Germany has enabled me to give directions
for the withdrawal of the protection extended to Germans in France by the diplomatic and consular
representatives of the United States in that country. It is just to add that the delicate duty
of this protection has been performed by the minister and the consul-general at Paris, and
the various consuls in France under the supervision of the latter, with great kindness as well
as with prudence and tact. Their course has received the commendation of the German Government,
and has wounded no susceptibility of the French.

The Government of the Emperor of Germany continues to manifest a friendly feeling toward the
United States, and a desire to harmonize with the moderate and just policy which this Government
maintains in its relations with Asiatic powers, as well as with the South American Republics.
I have given assurances that the friendly feelings of that Government are fully shared by the
United States.

The ratifications of the consular and naturalization conventions with the Austro-Hungarian
Empire have been exchanged.

I have been officially informed of the annexation of the States of the Church to the Kingdom
of Italy, and the removal of the capital of that Kingdom to Rome. In conformity with the established
policy of the United States, I have recognized this change. The ratifications of the new treaty
of commerce between the United States and Italy have been exchanged. The two powers have agreed
in this treaty that private property at sea shall be exempt from capture in case of war between
the two powers. The United States have spared no opportunity of incorporating this rule into
the obligation of nations.

The Forty-first Congress, at its third session, made an appropriation for the organization
of a mixed commission for adjudicating upon the claims of citizens of the United States against
Spain growing out of the insurrection in Cuba. That commission has since been organized. I
transmit herewith the correspondence relating to its formation and its jurisdiction. It is
to be hoped that this commission will afford the claimants a complete remedy for their injuries.

It has been made the agreeable duty of the United States to preside over a conference at Washington
between the plenipotentiaries of Spain and the allied South American Republics, which has resulted
in an armistice, with the reasonable assurance of a permanent peace.

The intimate friendly relations which have so long existed between the United States and Russia
continue undisturbed. The visit of the third son of the Emperor is a proof that there is no
desire on the part of his Government to diminish the cordiality of those relations. The hospitable
reception which has been given to the Grand Duke is a proof that on our side we share the wishes
of that Government. The inexcusable course of the Russian minister at Washington rendered it
necessary to ask his recall and to decline to longer receive that functionary as a diplomatic
representative. It was impossible, with self-respect or with a just regard to the dignity of
the country, to permit Mr. Catacazy to continue to hold intercourse with this Government after
his personal abuse of Government officials, and during his persistent interferences, through
various means, with the relations between the United States and other powers. In accordance
with my wishes, this Government has been relieved of further intercourse with Mr. Catacazy,
and the management of the affairs of the imperial legation has passed into the hands of a gentleman
entirely unobjectionable.

With Japan we continue to maintain intimate relations. The cabinet of the Mikado has since
the close of the last session of Congress selected citizens of the United States to serve in
offices of importance in several departments of Government. I have reason to think that this
selection is due to an appreciation of the disinterestedness of the policy which the United
States have pursued toward Japan. It is our desire to continue to maintain this disinterested
and just policy with China as well as Japan. The correspondence transmitted herewith shows
that there is no disposition on the part of this Government to swerve from its established course.

Prompted by a desire to put an end to the barbarous treatment of our shipwrecked sailors on
the Korean coast, I instructed our minister at Peking to endeavor to conclude a convention
with Korea for securing the safety and humane treatment of such mariners.

Admiral Rodgers was instructed to accompany him with a sufficient force to protect him in case
of need.

A small surveying party sent out, on reaching the coast was treacherously attacked at a disadvantage.
Ample opportunity was given for explanation and apology for the insult. Neither came. A force
was then landed. After an arduous march over a rugged and difficult country, the forts from
which the outrages had been committed were reduced by a gallant assault and were destroyed.
Having thus punished the criminals, and having vindicated the honor of the flag, the expedition
returned, finding it impracticable under the circumstances to conclude the desired convention.
I respectfully refer to the correspondence relating thereto, herewith submitted, and leave
the subject for such action as Congress may see fit to take.

The Republic of Mexico has not yet repealed the very objectionable laws establishing what is
known as the "free zone" on the frontier of the United States. It is hoped that this may yet
be done, and also that more stringent measures may be taken by that Republic for restraining
lawless persons on its frontiers. I hope that Mexico by its own action will soon relieve this
Government of the difficulties experienced from these causes.

Our relations with the various Republics of Central and South America continue, with one exception,
to be cordial and friendly.

I recommend some action by Congress regarding the overdue installments under the award of the
Venezuelan Claims Commission of 1866. The internal dissensions of this Government present no
justification for the absence of effort to meet their solemn treaty obligations.

The ratification of an extradition treaty with Nicaragua has been exchanged.

It is a subject for congratulation that the great Empire of Brazil has taken the initiatory
step toward the abolition of slavery. Our relations with that Empire, always cordial, will
naturally be made more so by this act. It is not too much to hope that the Government of Brazil
may hereafter find it for its interest, as well as intrinsically right, to advance toward entire
emancipation more rapidly than the present act contemplates.

The true prosperity and greatness of a nation is to be found in the elevation and education
of its laborers.

It is a subject for regret that the reforms in this direction which were voluntarily promised
by the statesmen of Spain have not been carried out in its West India colonies. The laws and
regulations for the apparent abolition of slavery in Cuba and Porto Rico leave most of the
laborers in bondage, with no hope of release until their lives become a burden to their employers.

I desire to direct your attention to the fact that citizens of the United States, or persons
claiming to be citizens of the United States, are large holders in foreign lands of this species
of property, forbidden by the fundamental law of their alleged country. I recommend to Congress
to provide by stringent legislation a suitable remedy against the holding, owning or dealing
in slaves, or being interested in slave property, in foreign lands, either as owners, hirers,
or mortgagors, by citizens of the United States.

It is to be regretted that the disturbed condition of the island of Cuba continues to be a
source of annoyance and of anxiety. The existence of a protracted struggle in such close proximity
to our own territory, without apparent prospect of an early termination, can not be other than
an object of concern to a people who, while abstaining from interference in the affairs of
other powers, naturally desire to see every country in the undisturbed enjoyment of peace,
liberty, and the blessings of free institutions.

Our naval commanders in Cuban waters have been instructed, in case it should become necessary,
to spare no effort to protect the lives and property of bona fide American citizens and to
maintain the dignity of the flag.

It is hoped that all pending questions with Spain growing out of the affairs in Cuba may be
adjusted in the spirit of peace and conciliation which has hitherto guided the two powers in
their treatment of such questions.

To give importance to and to add to the efficiency of our diplomatic relations with Japan and
China, and to further aid in retaining the good opinion of those peoples, and to secure to
the United States its share of the commerce destined to flow between those nations and the
balance of the commercial world, I earnestly recommend that an appropriation be made to support
at least four American youths in each of those countries, to serve as a part of the official
family of our ministers there. Our representatives would not even then be placed upon an equality
with the representatives of Great Britain and of some other powers. As now situated, our representatives
in Japan and China have to depend for interpreters and translators upon natives of those countries
who know our language imperfectly, or procure for the occasion the services of employees in
foreign business houses or the interpreters to other foreign ministers.

I would also recommend liberal measures for the purpose of supporting the American lines of
steamers now plying between San Francisco and Japan and China, and the Australian line--almost
our only remaining lines of ocean steamers--and of increasing their services.

The national debt has been reduced to the extent of $86,057, 126.80 during the year, and by
the negotiation of national bonds at a lower rate of interest the interest on the public debt
has been so far diminished that now the sum to be raised for the interest account is nearly
$17,000,000 less than on the 1st of March, 1869. It was highly desirable that this rapid diminution
should take place, both to strengthen the credit of the country and to convince its citizens
of their entire ability to meet every dollar of liability without bankrupting them. But in
view of the accomplishment of these desirable ends: of the rapid development of the resources
of the country; its increasing ability to meet large demands, and the amount already paid,
it is not desirable that the present resources of the country should continue to be taxed in
order to continue this rapid payment. I therefore recommend a modification of both the tariff
and internal-tax law. I recommend that all taxes from internal sources be abolished, except
those collected from spirituous, vinous, and malt liquors, tobacco in its various forms, and
from stamps.

In readjusting the tariff I suggest that a careful estimate be made of the amount of surplus
revenue collected under the present laws, after providing for the current expenses of the Government,
the interest count, and a sinking fund, and that this surplus be reduced in such a manner as
to afford the greatest relief to the greatest number. There are many articles not produced
at home, but which enter largely into general consumption through articles which are manufactured
at home, such as medicines compounded, etc., etc., from which very little revenue is derived,
but which enter into general use. All such articles I recommend to be placed on the "free list."
Should a further reduction prove advisable, I would then recommend that it be made upon those
articles which can best bear it without disturbing home production or reducing the wages of
American labor.

I have not entered into figures, because to do so would be to repeat what will be laid before
you in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury. The present laws for collecting revenue
pay collectors of customs small salaries, but provide for moieties (shares in all seizures),
which, at principal ports of entry particularly, raise the compensation of those officials
to a large sum. It has always seemed to me as if this system must at times work perniciously.
It holds out an inducement to dishonest men, should such get possession of those offices, to
be lax in their scrutiny of goods entered, to enable them finally to make large seizures. Your
attention is respectfully invited to this subject.

Continued fluctuations in the value of gold, as compared with the national currency, has a
most damaging effect upon the increase and development of the country, in keeping up prices
of all articles necessary in everyday life. It fosters a spirit of gambling, prejudicial alike
to national morals and the national finances. If the question can be met as to how to get a
fixed value to our currency, that value constantly and uniformly approaching par with specie,
a very desirable object will be gained.

For the operations of the Army in the past year, the expense of maintaining it, the estimate
for the ensuing year, and for continuing seacoast and other improvements conducted under the
supervision of the War Department, I refer you to the accompanying report of the Secretary of War.

I call your attention to the provisions of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1869, which
discontinues promotions in the staff corps of the Army until provided for by law. I recommend
that the number of officers in each grade in the staff corps be fixed, and that whenever the
number in any one grade falls below the number so fixed, that the vacancy may be filled by
promotion from the grade below. I also recommend that when the office of chief of a corps becomes
vacant the place may be filled by selection from the corps in which the vacancy exists.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows an improvement in the number and efficiency of
the naval force, without material increase in the expense of supporting it. This is due to
the policy which has been adopted, and is being extended as fast as our material will admit,
of using smaller vessels as cruisers on the several stations. By this means we have been enabled
to occupy at once a larger extent of cruising grounds, to visit more frequently the ports where
the presence of our flag is desirable, and generally to discharge more efficiently the appropriate
duties of the Navy in time of peace, without exceeding the number of men or the expenditure
authorized by law.

During the past year the Navy has, in addition to its regular service, supplied the men and
officers for the vessels of the Coast Survey, and has completed the surveys authorized by Congress
of the isthmuses of Darien and Tehuantepec, and, under like authority, has sent out an expedition,
completely furnished and equipped, to explore the unknown ocean of the north.

The suggestions of the report as to the necessity for increasing and improving the materiel
of the Navy, and the plan recommended for reducing the personnel of the service to a peace
standard, by the gradual abolition of certain grades of officers, the reduction of others,
and the employment of some in the service of the commercial marine, are well considered and
deserve the thoughtful attention of Congress.

I also recommend that all promotions in the Navy above the rank of captain be by selection
instead of by seniority. This course will secure in the higher grades greater efficiency and
hold out an incentive to young officers to improve themselves in the knowledge of their profession.

The present cost of maintaining the Navy, its cost compared with that of the preceding year,
and the estimates for the ensuing year are contained in the accompanying report of the Secretary
of the Navy.

The enlarged receipts of the Post-Office Department, as shown by the accompanying report of
the Postmaster-General, exhibit a gratifying increase in that branch of the public service.
It is the index of the growth of education and of the prosperity of the people, two elements
highly conducive to the vigor and stability of republics. With a vast territory like ours,
much of it sparsely populated, but all requiring the services of the mail, it is not at present
to be expected that this Department can be made self-sustaining. But a gradual approach to
this end from year to year is confidently relied on, and the day is not far distant when the
Post-Office Department of the Government will prove a much greater blessing to the whole people
than it is now.

The suggestions of the Postmaster-General for improvements in the Department presided over
by him are earnestly recommended to you, special attention. Especially do I recommend favorable
consideration of the plan for uniting the telegraphic system of the United States with the
postal system. It is believed that by such a course the cost of telegraphing could be much
reduced, and the service as well, if not better, rendered. It would secure the further advantage
of extending the telegraph through portions of the country where private enterprise will not
construct it. Commerce, trade, and, above all, the efforts to bring a people widely separated
into a community of interest are always benefited by a rapid intercommunication. Education,
the groundwork of republican institutions, is encouraged by increasing the facilities to gather
speedy news from all parts of the country. The desire to reap the benefit of such improvements
will stimulate education. I refer you to the report of the Postmaster-General for full details
of the operations of last year and for comparative statements of results with former years.

There has been imposed upon the executive branch of the Government the execution of the act
of Congress approved April 20, 1871, and commonly known as the Kuklux law, in a portion of
the State of South Carolina. The necessity of the course pursued will be demonstrated by the
report of the Committee to Investigate Southern Outrages. Under the provisions of the above
act I issued a proclamation calling the attention of the people of the United States to the
same, and declaring my reluctance to exercise any of the extraordinary powers thereby conferred
upon me, except in case of imperative necessity, but making known my purpose to exercise such
powers whenever it should become necessary to do so for the purpose of securing to all citizens
of the United States the peaceful enjoyment of the rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution
and the laws.

After the passage of this law information was received from time to time that combinations
of the character referred to in this law existed and were powerful in many parts of the Southern
States, particularly in certain counties in the State of South Carolina.

Careful investigation was made, and it was ascertained that in nine counties of that State
such combinations were active and powerful, embracing a sufficient portion of the citizens
to control the local authority, and having, among other things, the object of depriving the
emancipated class of the substantial benefits of freedom and of preventing the free political
action of those citizens who did not sympathize with their own views. Among their operations
were frequent scourgings and occasional assassinations, generally perpetrated at night by disguised
persons, the victims in almost all cases being citizens of different political sentiments from
their own or freed persons who had shown a disposition to claim equal rights with other citizens.
Thousands of inoffensive and well disposed citizens were the sufferers by this lawless violence,

Thereupon, on the 12th of October, 1871, a proclamation was issued, in terms of the law, calling
upon the members of those combinations to disperse within five days and to deliver to the marshal
or military officers of the United States all arms, ammunition, uniforms, disguises, and other
means and implements used by them for carrying out their unlawful purposes.

This warning not having been heeded, on the 17th of October another proclamation was issued,
suspending the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus in nine counties in that State.

Direction was given that within the counties so designated persons supposed, upon creditable
information, to be members of such unlawful combinations should be arrested by the military
forces of the United States and delivered to the marshal, to be dealt with according to law.
In two of said counties, York and Spartanburg, many arrests have been made. At the last account
the number of persons thus arrested was 168. Several hundred, whose criminality was ascertained
to be of an inferior degree, were released for the present. These have generally made confessions
of their guilt.

Great caution has been exercised in making these arrests, and, notwithstanding the large number,
it is believed that no innocent person is now in custody. The prisoners will be held for regular
trial in the judicial tribunals of the United States.

As soon as it appeared that the authorities of the United States were about to take vigorous
measures to enforce the law, many persons absconded, and there is good ground for supposing
that all of such persons have violated the law. A full report of what has been done under this
law will be submitted to Congress by the Attorney-General.

In Utah there still remains a remnant of barbarism, repugnant to civilization, to decency,
and to the laws of the United States. Territorial officers, however, have been found who are
willing to perform their duty in a spirit of equity and with a due sense of the necessity of
sustaining the majesty of the law. Neither polygamy nor any other violation of existing statutes
will be permitted within the territory of the United States. It is not with the religion of
the self-styled Saints that we are now dealing, but with their practices. They will be protected
in the worship of God according to the dictates of their consciences, but they will not be
permitted to violate the laws under the cloak of religion.

It may be advisable for Congress to consider what, in the execution of the laws against polygamy,
is to be the status of plural wives and their offspring. The propriety of Congress passing
an enabling act authorizing the Territorial legislature of Utah to legitimize all children
born prior to a time fixed in the act might be justified by its humanity to these innocent
children. This is a suggestion only, and not a recommendation.

The policy pursued toward the Indians has resulted favorably, so far as can be judged from
the limited time during which it has been in operation. Through the exertions of the various
societies of Christians to whom has been intrusted the execution of the policy, and the board
of commissioners authorized by the law of April 10, 1869, many tribes of Indians have been
induced to settle upon reservations, to cultivate the soil, to perform productive labor of
various kinds, and to partially accept civilization. They are being cared for in such a way,
it is hoped, as to induce those still pursuing their old habits of life to embrace the only
opportunity which is left them to avoid extermination.

I recommend liberal appropriations to carry out the Indian peace policy, not only because it
is humane, Christian like, and economical, but because it is right.

I recommend to your favorable consideration also the policy of granting a Territorial government
to the Indians in the Indian Territory west of Arkansas and Missouri and south of Kansas. In
doing so every right guaranteed to the Indian by treaty should be secured. Such a course might
in time be the means of collecting most of the Indians now between the Missouri and the Pacific
and south of the British possessions into one Territory or one State. The Secretary of the
Interior has treated upon this subject at length, and I commend to you his suggestions.

I renew my recommendation that the public lands be regarded as a heritage to our children,
to be disposed of only as required for occupation and to actual settlers. Those already granted
have been in great part disposed of in such a way as to secure access to the balance by the
hardy settler who may wish to avail himself of them, but caution should be exercised even in
attaining so desirable an object.

Educational interest may well be served by the grant of the proceeds of the sale of public
lands to settlers. I do not wish to be understood as recommending in the least degree a curtailment
of what is being done by the General Government for the encouragement of education.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior submitted with this will give you all the information
collected and prepared for publication in regard to the census taken during the year 1870;
the operations of the Bureau of Education for the year; the Patent Office; the Pension Office;
the Land Office, and the Indian Bureau.

The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture gives the operations of his Department for the
year. As agriculture is the groundwork of our prosperity, too much importance can not be attached
to the labors of this Department. It is in the hands of an able head, with able assistants,
all zealously devoted to introducing into the agricultural productions of the nation all useful
products adapted to any of the various climates and soils of our vast territory, and to giving
all useful information as to the method of cultivation, the plants, cereals, and other products
adapted to particular localities. Quietly but surely the Agricultural Bureau is working a great
national good, and if liberally supported the more widely its influence will be extended and
the less dependent we shall be upon the products of foreign countries.

The subject of compensation to the heads of bureaus and officials holding positions of responsibility,
and requiring ability and character to fill properly, is one to which your attention is invited.
But few of the officials receive a compensation equal to the respectable support of a family,
while their duties are such as to involve millions of interest. In private life services demand
compensation equal to the services rendered; a wise economy would dictate the same rule in
the Government service.

I have not given the estimates for the support of Government for the ensuing year, nor the
comparative statement between the expenditures for the year just passed and the one just preceding,
because all these figures are contained in the accompanying reports or in those presented directly
to Congress. These estimates have my approval.

More than six years having elapsed since the last hostile gun was fired between the armies
then arrayed against each other--one for the perpetuation, the other for the destruction, of
the Union--it may well be considered whether it is not now time that the disabilities imposed
by the fourteenth amendment should be removed. That amendment does not exclude the ballot,
but only imposes the disability to hold offices upon certain classes. When the purity of the
ballot is secure, majorities are sure to elect officers reflecting the views of the majority.
I do not see the advantage or propriety of excluding men from office merely because they were
before the rebellion of standing and character sufficient to be elected to positions requiring
them to take oaths to support the Constitution, and admitting to eligibility those entertaining
precisely the same views, but of less standing in their communities. It may be said that the
former violated an oath, while the latter did not; the latter did not have it in their power
to do so. If they had taken this oath, it can not be doubted they would have broken it as did
the former class. If there are any great criminals, distinguished above all others for the
part they took in opposition to the Government, they might, in the judgment of Congress, be
excluded from such an amnesty.

This subject is submitted for your careful consideration.

The condition of the Southern States is, unhappily, not such as all true patriotic citizens
would like to see. Social ostracism for opinion's sake, personal violence or threats toward
persons entertaining political views opposed to those entertained by the majority of the old
citizens, prevents immigration and the flow of much-needed capital into the States lately in
rebellion. It will be a happy condition of the country when the old citizens of these States
will take an interest in public affairs, promulgate ideas honestly entertained, vote for men
representing their views, and tolerate the same freedom of expression and ballot in those entertaining
different political convictions.

Under the provisions of the act of Congress approved February 21, 1871, a Territorial government
was organized in the District of Columbia. Its results have thus far fully realized the expectations
of its advocates. Under the direction of the Territorial officers, a system of improvements
has been inaugurated by means of which Washington is rapidly becoming a city worthy of the
nation's capital. The citizens of the District having voluntarily taxed themselves to a large
amount for the purpose of contributing to the adornment of the seat of Government, I recommend
liberal appropriations on the part of Congress, in order that the Government may bear its just
share of the expense of carrying out a judicious system of improvements.

By the great fire in Chicago the most important of the Government buildings in that city were
consumed. Those burned had already become inadequate to the wants of the Government in that
growing city, and, looking to the near future, were totally inadequate. I recommend, therefore,
that an appropriation be made immediately to purchase the remainder of the square on which
the burned buildings stood, provided it can be purchased at a fair valuation, or provided that
the legislature of Illinois will pass a law authorizing its condemnation for Government purposes;
and also an appropriation of as much money as can properly be expended toward the erection
of new buildings during this fiscal year.

The number of immigrants ignorant of our laws, habits, etc., coming into our country annually
has become so great and the impositions practiced upon them so numerous and flagrant that I
suggest Congressional action for their protection. It seems to me a fair subject of legislation
by Congress. I can not now state as fully as I desire the nature of the complaints made by
immigrants of the treatment they receive, but will endeavor to do so during the session of
Congress, particularly if the subject should receive your attention.

It has been the aim of the Administration to enforce honesty and efficiency in all public offices.
Every public servant who has violated the trust placed in him has been proceeded against with
all the rigor of the law. If bad men have secured places, it has been the fault of the system
established by law and custom for making appointments, or the fault of those who recommend
for Government positions persons not sufficiently well known to them personally, or who give
letters indorsing the characters of office seekers without a proper sense of the grave responsibility
which such a course devolves upon them. A civil-service reform which can correct this abuse
is much desired. In mercantile pursuits the business man who gives a letter of recommendation
to a friend to enable him to obtain credit from a stranger is regarded as morally responsible
for the integrity of his friend and his ability to meet his obligations. A reformatory law
which would enforce this principle against all indorsers of persons for public place would
insure great caution in making recommendations. A salutary lesson has been taught the careless
and the dishonest public servant in the great number of prosecutions and convictions of the
last two years.

It is gratifying to notice the favorable change which is taking place throughout the country
in bringing to punishment those who have proven recreant to the trusts confided to them and
in elevating to public office none but those who possess the confidence of the honest and the
virtuous, who, it will always be found, comprise the majority of the community in which they live.

In my message to Congress one year ago I urgently recommended a reform in the civil service
of the country. In conformity with that recommendation Congress, in the ninth section of "An
act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government, and for other purposes,"
approved March 3, 1871, gave the necessary authority to the Executive to inaugurate a civil-service
reform, and placed upon him the responsibility of doing so. Under the authority of said act
I convened a board of gentlemen eminently qualified for the work to devise rules and regulations
to effect the needed reform. Their labors are not yet complete, but it is believed that they
will succeed in devising a plan that can be adopted to the great relief of the Executive, the
heads of Departments, and members of Congress, and which will redound to the true interest
of the public service. At all events, the experiment shall have a fair trial.

I have thus hastily summed up the operations of the Government during the last year, and made
such suggestions as occur to me to be proper for your consideration. I submit them with a confidence
that your combined action will be wise, statesmanlike, and in the best interests of the whole
country.

U. S. GRANT

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 2, 1872

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In transmitting to you this my fourth annual message it is with thankfulness to the Giver of
All Good that as a nation we have been blessed for the past year with peace at home, peace
abroad, and a general prosperity vouchsafed to but few peoples.

With the exception of the recent devastating fire which swept from the earth with a breath,
as it were, millions of accumulated wealth in the city of Boston, there has been no overshadowing
calamity within the year to record. It is gratifying to note how, like their fellow-citizens
of the city of Chicago under similar circumstances a year earlier, the citizens of Boston are
rallying under their misfortunes, and the prospect that their energy and perseverance will
overcome all obstacles and show the same prosperity soon that they would had no disaster befallen
them. Otherwise we have been free from pestilence, war, and calamities, which often overtake
nations; and, as far as human judgment can penetrate the future, no cause seems to exist to
threaten our present peace.

When Congress adjourned in June last, a question had been raised by Great Britain, and was
then pending, which for a time seriously imperiled the settlement by friendly arbitration of
the grave differences between this Government and that of Her Britannic Majesty, which by the
treaty of Washington had been referred to the tribunal of arbitration which had met at Geneva,
in Switzerland.

The arbitrators, however, disposed of the question which had jeoparded the whole of the treaty
and threatened to involve the two nations in most unhappy relations toward each other in a
manner entirely satisfactory to this Government and in accordance with the views and the policy
which it had maintained.

The tribunal, which had convened at Geneva in December, concluded its laborious session on
the 14th day of September last, on which day, having availed itself of the discretionary power
given to it by the treaty to award a sum in gross, it made its decision, whereby it awarded
the sum of $15,500,000 in gold as the indemnity to be paid by Great Britain to the United States
for the satisfaction of all the claims referred to its consideration.

This decision happily disposes of a long-standing difference between the two Governments, and,
in connection with another award, made by the German Emperor under a reference to him by the
same treaty, leaves these two Governments without a shadow upon the friendly relations which
it is my sincere hope may forever remain equally unclouded.

The report of the agent of the United States appointed to attend the Geneva tribunal, accompanied
by the protocols of the proceedings of the arbitrators, the arguments of the counsel of both
Governments, the award of the tribunal, and the opinions given by the several arbitrators,
is transmitted herewith.

I have caused to be communicated to the heads of the three friendly powers who complied with
the joint request made to them under the treaty the thanks of this Government for the appointment
of arbitrators made by them respectively, and also my thanks to the eminent personages named
by them, and my appreciation of the dignity, patience, impartiality, and great ability with
which they discharged their arduous and high functions.

Her Majesty's Government has communicated to me the appreciation by Her Majesty of the ability
and indefatigable industry displayed by Mr. Adams, the arbitrator named on the part of this
Government during the protracted inquiries and discussions of the tribunal. I cordially unite
with Her Majesty in this appreciation.

It is due to the agent of the United States before the tribunal to record my high appreciation
of the marked ability, unwearied patience, and the prudence and discretion with which he has
conducted the very responsible and delicate duties committed to him, as it is also due to the
learned and eminent counsel who attended the tribunal on the part of this Government to express
my sense of the talents and wisdom which they brought to bear in the attainment of the result
so happily reached.

It will be the province of Congress to provide for the distribution among those who may be
entitled to it of their respective shares of the money to be paid. Although the sum awarded
is not payable until a year from the date of the award, it is deemed advisable that no time
be lost in making a proper examination of the several cases in which indemnification may be
due. I consequently recommend the creation of a board of commissioners for the purpose.

By the thirty-fourth article of the treaty of Washington the respective claims of the United
States and of Great Britain in their construction of the treaty of the 15th of June, 1846,
defining the boundary line between their respective territories, were submitted to the arbitration
and award of His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, to decide which of those claims is most in
accordance with the true interpretation of the treaty of 1846.

His Majesty the Emperor of Germany, having been pleased to undertake the arbitration, has the
earnest thanks of this Government and of the people of the United States for the labor, pains,
and care which he has devoted to the consideration of this long-pending difference. I have
caused an expression of my thanks to be communicated to His Majesty. Mr. Bancroft, the representative
of this Government at Berlin, conducted the case and prepared the statement on the part of
the United States with the ability that his past services justified the public in expecting
at his hands. As a member of the Cabinet at the date of the treaty which has given rise to
the discussion between the two Governments, as the minister to Great Britain when the construction
now pronounced unfounded was first advanced, and as the agent and representative of the Government
to present the case and to receive the award, he has been associated with the question in all
of its phases, and in every stage has manifested a patriotic zeal and earnestness in maintenance
of the claim of the United States. He is entitled to much credit for the success which has
attended the submission.

After a patient investigation of the case and of the statements of each party, His Majesty
the Emperor, on the 21st day of October last, signed his award in writing, decreeing that the
claim of the Government of the United States, that the boundary line between the territories
of Her Britannic Majesty and the United States should be drawn through the Haro Channel, is
most in accordance with the true interpretation of the treaty concluded on the 15th of June,
1846, between the Governments of Her Britannic Majesty and of the United States.

Copies of the "case" presented on behalf of each Government, and of the "statement in reply"
of each, and a translation of the award, are transmitted herewith.

This award confirms the United States in their claim to the important archipelago of islands
lying between the continent and Vancouvers Island, which for more than twenty-six years (ever
since the ratification of the treaty) Great Britain has contested, and leaves us, for the first
time in the history of the United States as a nation, without a question of disputed boundary
between our territory and the possessions of Great Britain on this continent.

It is my grateful duty to acknowledge the prompt, spontaneous action of Her Majesty's Government
in giving effect to the award. In anticipation of any request from this Government, and before
the reception in the United States of the award signed by the Emperor, Her Majesty had given
instructions for the removal of her troops which had been stationed there and for the cessation
of all exercise or claim of jurisdiction, so as to leave the United States in the exclusive
possession of the lately disputed territory. I am gratified to be able to announce that the
orders for the removal of the troops have been executed, and that the military joint occupation
of San Juan has ceased. The islands are now in the exclusive possession of the United States.

It now becomes necessary to complete the survey and determination of that portion of the boundary
line (through the Haro Channel) upon which the commission which determined the remaining part
of the line were unable to agree. I recommend the appointment of a commission to act jointly
with one which may be named by Her Majesty for that purpose.

Experience of the difficulties attending the determination of our admitted line of boundary,
after the occupation of the territory and its settlement by those owing allegiance to the respective
Governments, points to the importance of establishing, by natural objects or other monuments,
the actual line between the territory acquired by purchase from Russia and the adjoining possessions
of Her Britannic Majesty. The region is now so sparsely occupied that no conflicting interests
of individuals or of jurisdiction are likely to interfere to the delay or embarrassment of
the actual location of the line. If deferred until population shall enter and occupy the territory,
some trivial contest of neighbors may again array the two Governments in antagonism. I therefore
recommend the appointment of a commission, to act jointly with one that may be appointed on
the part of Great Britain, to determine the line between our Territory of Alaska and the conterminous
possessions of Great Britain.

That legislation on the part of Great Britain and its possessions had not then been had, and
during the session of Congress a question was raised which for the time raised a doubt whether
any action by Congress in the direction indicated would become important. This question has
since been disposed of, and I have received notice that the Imperial Parliament and the legislatures
of the provincial governments have passed laws to carry the provisions of the treaty on the
matters referred to into operation. I therefore recommend your early adoption of the legislation
in the same direction necessary on the part of this Government.

The joint commission for determining the boundary line between the United States and the British
possessions between the Lake of the Woods and the Rocky Mountains has organized and entered
upon its work. It is desirable that the force be increased, in order that the completion of
the survey and determination of the line may be the sooner attained. To this end I recommend
that a sufficient appropriation be made.

With France, our earliest ally; Russia, the constant and steady friend of the United States;
Germany, with whose Government and people we have so many causes of friendship and so many
common sympathies, and the other powers of Europe, our relations are maintained on the most
friendly terms.

Since my last annual message the exchange has been made of the ratifications of a treaty with
the Austro-Hungarian Empire relating to naturalization; also of a treaty with the German Empire
respecting consuls and trade-marks; also of a treaty with Sweden and Norway relating to naturalization;
all of which treaties have been duly proclaimed.

Congress at its last session having made an appropriation to defray the expense of commissioners
on the part of the United States to the International Statistical Congress at St. Petersburg,
the persons appointed in that character proceeded to their destination and attended the sessions
of the congress. Their report shall in due season be laid before you. This congress meets at
intervals of about three years, and has held its sessions in several of the countries of Europe.
I submit to your consideration the propriety of extending an invitation to the congress to
hold its next meeting in the United States. The Centennial Celebration to be held in 1876 would
afford an appropriate occasion for such meeting.

Preparations are making for the international exposition to be held during the next year in
Vienna, on a scale of very great magnitude. The tendency of these expositions is in the direction
of advanced civilization, and of the elevation of industry and of labor, and of the increase
of human happiness, as well as of greater intercourse and good will between nations. As this
exposition is to be the first which will have been held in eastern Europe, it is believed that
American inventors and manufacturers will be ready to avail themselves of the opportunity for
the presentation of their productions if encouraged by proper aid and protection.

At the last session of Congress authority was given for the appointment of one or more agents
to represent this Government at the exposition. The authority thus given has been exercised,
but, in the absence of any appropriation, there is danger that the important benefits which
the occasion offers will in a large degree be lost to citizens of the United States. I commend
the subject strongly to your consideration, and recommend that an adequate appropriation be
made for the purpose.

To further aid American exhibitors at the Vienna Exposition, I would recommend, in addition
to an appropriation of money, that the Secretary of the Navy be authorized to fit up two naval
vessels to transport between our Atlantic cities and Trieste, or the most convenient port to
Vienna, and back, their articles for exhibition.

Since your last session the President of the Mexican Republic, distinguished by his high character
and by his services to his country, has died. His temporary successor has now been elected
with great unanimity by the people a proof of confidence on their part in his patriotism and
wisdom which it is believed will be confirmed by the results of his administration. It is particularly
desirable that nothing should be left undone by the Government of either Republic to strengthen
their relations as neighbors and friends.

It is much to be regretted that many lawless acts continue to disturb the quiet of the settlements
on the border between our territory and that of Mexico, and that complaints of wrongs to American
citizens in various parts of the country are made. The revolutionary condition in which the
neighboring Republic has so long been involved has in some degree contributed to this disturbance.
It is to be hoped that with a more settled rule of order through the Republic, which may be
expected from the present Government, the acts of which just complaint is made will cease.

The proceedings of the commission under the convention with Mexico of the 4th of July, 1868,
on the subject of claims, have, unfortunately, been checked by an obstacle, for the removal
of which measures have been taken by the two Governments which it is believed will prove successful.

The commissioners appointed, pursuant to the joint resolution of Congress of the 7th of May
last, to inquire into depredations on the Texan frontier have diligently made investigations
in that quarter. Their report upon the subject will be communicated to you. Their researches
were necessarily incomplete, partly on account of the limited appropriation made by Congress.
Mexico, on the part of that Government, has appointed a similar commission to investigate these
outrages. It is not announced officially, but the press of that country states that the fullest
investigation is desired, and that the cooperation of all parties concerned is invited to secure
that end. I therefore recommend that a special appropriation be made at the earliest day practicable,
to enable the commissioners on the part of the United States to return to their labors without
delay.

It is with regret that I have again to announce a continuance of the disturbed condition of
the island of Cuba. No advance toward the pacification of the discontented part of the population
has been made. While the insurrection has gained no advantages and exhibits no more of the
elements of power or of the prospects of ultimate success than were exhibited a year ago, Spain,
on the other hand, has not succeeded in its repression, and the parties stand apparently in
the same relative attitude which they have occupied for a long time past.

This contest has lasted now for more than four years. Were its scene at a distance from our
neighborhood, we might be indifferent to its result, although humanity could not be unmoved
by many of its incidents wherever they might occur. It is, however, at our door.

I can not doubt that the continued maintenance of slavery in Cuba is among the strongest inducements
to the continuance of this strife. A terrible wrong is the natural cause of a terrible evil.
The abolition of slavery and the introduction of other reforms in the administration of government
in Cuba could not fail to advance the restoration of peace and order. It is greatly to be hoped
that the present liberal Government of Spain will voluntarily adopt this view.

The law of emancipation, which was passed more than two years since, has remained unexecuted
in the absence of regulations for its enforcement. It was but a feeble step toward emancipation,
but it was the recognition of right, and was hailed as such, and exhibited Spain in harmony
with sentiments of humanity and of justice and in sympathy with the other powers of the Christian
and civilized world.

Within the past few weeks the regulations for carrying out the law of emancipation have been
announced, giving evidence of the sincerity of intention of the present Government to carry
into effect the law of 1870. I have not failed to urge the consideration of the wisdom, the
policy, and the justice of a more effective system for the abolition of the great evil which
oppresses a race and continues a bloody and destructive contest close to our border, as well
as the expediency and the justice of conceding reforms of which the propriety is not questioned.

Deeply impressed with the conviction that the continuance of slavery is one of the most active
causes of the continuance of the unhappy condition in Cuba, I regret to believe that citizens
of the United States, or those claiming to be such, are large holders in Cuba of what is there
claimed as property, but which is forbidden and denounced by the laws of the United States.
They are thus, in defiance of the spirit of our own laws, contributing to the continuance of
this distressing and sickening contest. In my last annual message I referred to this subject,
and I again recommend such legislation as may be proper to denounce, and, if not prevent, at
least to discourage American citizens from holding or dealing in slaves.

It is gratifying to announce that the ratifications of the convention concluded under the auspices
of this Government between Spain on the one part and the allied Republics of the Pacific on
the other, providing for an armistice, have been exchanged. A copy of the instrument is herewith
submitted. It is hoped that this may be followed by a permanent peace between the same parties.

The differences which at one time threatened the maintenance of peace between Brazil and the
Argentine Republic it is hoped are in the way of satisfactory adjustment.

With these States, as with the Republics of Central and of South America, we continue to maintain
the most friendly relations.

It is with regret, however, I announce that the Government of Venezuela has made no further
payments on account of the awards under the convention of the 25th of April, 1866. That Republic
is understood to be now almost, if not quite, tranquilized. It is hoped, therefore, that it
will lose no time in providing for the unpaid balance of its debt to the United States, which,
having originated in injuries to our citizens by Venezuelan authorities, and having been acknowledged,
pursuant to a treaty, in the most solemn form known among nations, would seem to deserve a
preference over debts of a different origin and contracted in a different manner. This subject
is again recommended to the attention of Congress for such action as may be deemed proper.

Our treaty relations with Japan remain unchanged. An imposing embassy from that interesting
and progressive nation visited this country during the year that is passing, but, being unprovided
with powers for the signing of a convention in this country, no conclusion in that direction
was reached. It is hoped, however, that the interchange of opinions which took place during
their stay in this country has led to a mutual appreciation of the interests which may be promoted
when the revision of the existing treaty shall be undertaken.

Congress from the beginning of the Government has wisely made provision for the relief of distressed
seamen in foreign countries. No similar provision, however, has hitherto been made for the
relief of citizens in distress abroad other than seamen. It is understood to be customary with
other governments to authorize consuls to extend such relief to their citizens or subjects
in certain cases. A similar authority and an appropriation to carry it into effect are recommended
in the case of citizens of the United States destitute or sick under such circumstances. It
is well known that such citizens resort to foreign countries in great numbers. Though most
of them are able to bear the expenses incident to locomotion, there are some who, through accident
or otherwise, become penniless, and have no friends at home able to succor them. Persons in
this situation must either perish, cast themselves upon the charity of foreigners, or be relieved
at the private charge of our own officers, who usually, even with the most benevolent dispositions,
have nothing to spare for such purposes.

Should the authority and appropriation asked for be granted, care will be taken so to carry
the beneficence of Congress into effect that it shall not be unnecessarily or unworthily bestowed.
TREASURY.

The moneys received and covered into the Treasury during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1872, were:

From customs - $216,370,286.77

From sales of public lands - 2,575,714.19

From internal revenue - 130,642,177.72

From tax on national-bank circulation, etc - 6,523,396.39

From Pacific railway companies - 749,861.87

From customs fines, etc - 1,136,442.34

From fees--consular, patent, lands, etc - 2,284,095.92

From miscellaneous - 412,254.71 -

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 1, 1873

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

The year that has passed since the submission of my last message to Congress has, especially
during the latter part of it, been an eventful one to the country. In the midst of great national
prosperity a financial crisis has occurred that has brought low fortunes of gigantic proportions;
political partisanship has almost ceased to exist, especially in the agricultural regions;
and, finally, the capture upon the high seas of a vessel bearing our flag has for a time threatened
the most serious consequences, and has agitated the public mind from one end of the country
to the other. But this, happily, now is in the course of satisfactory adjustment, honorable
to both nations concerned.

The relations of the United States, however, with most of the other powers continue to be friendly
and cordial. With France, Germany, Russia, Italy, and the minor European powers; with Brazil
and most of the South American Republics, and with Japan, nothing has occurred during the year
to demand special notice. The correspondence between the Department of State and various diplomatic
representatives in or from those countries is transmitted herewith.

In executing the will of Congress, as expressed in its joint resolution of the 14th of February
last, and in accordance with the provisions of the resolution, a number of "practical artisans,"
of "scientific men," and of "honorary commissioners" were authorized to attend the exposition
at Vienna as commissioners on the part of the United States. It is believed that we have obtained
the object which Congress had in view when it passed the joint resolution--"in order to enable
the people of the United States to participate in the advantages of the International Exhibition
of the Products of Agriculture, Manufactures, and the Fine Arts to be held at Vienna." I take
pleasure in adding that the American exhibitors have received a gratifying number of diplomas
and of medals.

During the exposition a conference was held at Vienna for the purpose of consultation on the
systems prevailing in different countries for the protection of inventions. I authorized a
representative from the Patent Office to be present at Vienna at the time when this conference
was to take place, in order to aid as far as he might in securing any possible additional protection
to American inventors in Europe. The report of this agent will be laid before Congress.

It is my pleasant duty to announce to Congress that the Emperor of China, on attaining his
majority, received the diplomatic representatives of the Western powers in person. An account
of these ceremonies and of the interesting discussions which preceded them will be found in
the documents transmitted herewith. The accompanying papers show that some advance, although
slight, has been made during the past year toward the suppression of the infamous Chinese cooly
trade. I recommend Congress to inquire whether additional legislation be not needed on this
subject.

The money awarded to the United States by the tribunal of arbitration at Geneva was paid by
Her Majesty's Government a few days in advance of the time when it would have become payable
according to the terms of the treaty. In compliance with the provisions of the act of March
3, 1873, it was at once paid into the Treasury, and used to redeem, so far as it might, the
public debt of the United States; and the amount so redeemed was invested in a 5 per cent registered
bond of the United States for $15,500,000, which is now held by the Secretary of State, subject
to the future disposition of Congress.

I renew my recommendation, made at the opening of the last session of Congress, that a commission
be created for the purpose of auditing and determining the amounts of the several "direct losses
growing out of the destruction of vessels and their cargoes" by the Alabama, the Florida, or
the Shenandoah after leaving Melbourne, for which the sufferers have received no equivalent
or compensation, and of ascertaining the names of the persons entitled to receive compensation
for the same, making the computations upon the basis indicated by the tribunal of arbitration
at Geneva; and that payment of such losses be authorized to an extent not to exceed the awards
of the tribunal at Geneva.

By an act approved on the 14th day of February last Congress made provision for completing,
jointly with an officer or commissioner to be named by Her Britannic Majesty, the determination
of so much of the boundary line between the territory of the United States and the possessions
of Great Britain as was left uncompleted by the commissioners appointed under the act of Congress
of August 11, 1856. Under the provisions of this act the northwest water boundary of the United
States has been determined and marked in accordance with the award of the Emperor of Germany.
A protocol and a copy of the map upon which the line was thus marked are contained in the papers
submitted herewith.

I also transmit a copy of the report of the commissioner for marking the northern boundary
between the United States and the British possessions west of the Lake of the Woods, of the
operations of the commission during the past season. Surveys have been made to a point 497
miles west of the Lake of the Woods, leaving about 350 miles to be surveyed, the field work
of which can be completed during the next season.

The mixed commission organized under the provisions of the treaty of Washington for settling
and determining the claims of citizens of either power against the other arising out of acts
committed against their persons or property during the period between April 13, 1861, and April
9, 1865, made its final award on the 25th day of September last. It was awarded that the Government
of the United States should pay to the Government of Her Britannic Majesty, within twelve months
from the date of the award, the sum of $1,929,819 in gold. The commission disallowed or dismissed
all other claims of British subjects against the United States. The amount of the claims presented
by the British Government, but disallowed or dismissed, is understood to be about $93,000,000.
It also disallowed all the claims of citizens of the United States against Great Britain which
were referred to it.

I recommend the early passage of an act appropriating the amount necessary to pay this award
against the United States.

I have caused to be communicated to the Government of the King of Italy the thanks of this
Government for the eminent services rendered by Count Corti as the third commissioner on this
commission. With dignity, learning, and impartiality he discharged duties requiring great labor
and constant patience, to the satisfaction, I believe, of both Governments. I recommend legislation
to create a special court, to consist of three judges, who shall be empowered to hear and determine
all claims of aliens upon the United States arising out of acts committed against their persons
or property during the insurrection. The recent reference under the treaty of Washington was
confined to claims of British subjects arising during the period named in the treaty; but it
is understood that there are other British claims of a similar nature, arising after the 9th
of April, 1865, and it is known that other claims of a like nature are advanced by citizens
or subjects of other powers. It is desirable to have these claims also examined and disposed of.

Official information being received from the Dutch Government of a state of war between the
King of the Netherlands and the Sultan of Acheen, the officers of the United States who were
near the seat of the war were instructed to observe an impartial neutrality. It is believed
that they have done so.

The joint commission under the convention with Mexico of 1868, having again been legally prolonged,
has resumed its business, which, it is hoped, may be brought to an early conclusion. The distinguished
representative of Her Britannic Majesty at Washington has kindly consented, with the approval
of his Government, to assume the arduous and responsible duties of umpire in this commission,
and to lend the weight of his character and name to such decisions as may not receive the acquiescence
of both the arbitrators appointed by the respective Governments.

The commissioners appointed pursuant to the authority of Congress to examine into the nature
and extent of the forays by trespassers from that country upon the herds of Texas have made
a report, which will be submitted for your consideration.

The Venezuelan Government has been apprised of the sense of Congress in regard to the awards
of the joint commission under the convention of 25th April, 1866, as expressed in the act of
the 25th of February last.

It is apprehended that that Government does not realize the character of its obligations under
that convention. As there is reason to believe, however, that its hesitancy in recognizing
them springs, in part at least, from real difficulty in discharging them in connection with
its obligations to other governments, the expediency of further forbearance on our part is
believed to be worthy of your consideration.

The Ottoman Government and that of Egypt have latterly shown a disposition to relieve foreign
consuls of the judicial powers which heretofore they have exercised in the Turkish dominions,
by organizing other tribunals. As Congress, however, has by law provided for the discharge
of judicial functions by consuls of the United States in that quarter under the treaty of 1830,
I have not felt at liberty formally to accept the proposed change without the assent of Congress,
whose decision upon the subject at as early a period as may be convenient is earnestly requested.

I transmit herewith, for the consideration and determination of Congress, an application of
the Republic of Santo Domingo to this Government to exercise a protectorate over that Republic.

Since the adjournment of Congress the following treaties with foreign powers have been proclaimed:
A naturalization convention with Denmark; a convention with Mexico for renewing the Claims
Commission; a convention of friendship, commerce, and extradition with the Orange Free State,
and a naturalization convention with Ecuador.

I renew the recommendation made in my message of December, 1870, that Congress authorize the
Postmaster-General to issue all commissions to officials appointed through his Department.

I invite the earnest attention of Congress to the existing laws of the United States respecting
expatriation and the election of nationality by individuals. Many citizens of the United States
reside permanently abroad with their families. Under the provisions of the act approved February
10, 1855, the children of such persons are to be deemed and taken to be citizens of the United
States, but the rights of citizenship are not to descend to persons whose fathers never resided
in the United States.

It thus happens that persons who have never resided within the United States have been enabled
to put forward a pretension to the protection of the United States against the claim to military
service of the government under whose protection they were born and have been reared. In some
cases even naturalized citizens of the United States have returned to the land of their birth,
with intent to remain there, and their children, the issue of a marriage contracted there after
their return, and who have never been in the United States, have laid claim to our protection
when the lapse of many years had imposed upon them the duty of military service to the only
government which had ever known them personally.

Until the year 1868 it was left, embarrassed by conflicting opinions of courts and of jurists,
to determine how far the doctrine of perpetual allegiance derived from our former colonial
relations with Great Britain was applicable to American citizens. Congress then wisely swept
these doubts away by enacting that--Any declaration, instruction, opinion, order, or decision
of any officer of this Government which denies, restricts, impairs, or questions the right
of expatriation is inconsistent with the fundamental principles of this Government. But Congress
did not indicate in that statute, nor has it since done so, what acts are to be deemed to work
expatriation. For my own guidance in determining such questions I required (under the provisions
of the Constitution) the opinion in writing of the principal officer in each of the Executive
Departments upon certain questions relating to this subject. The result satisfies me that further
legislation has become necessary. I therefore commend the subject to the careful consideration
of Congress, and I transmit herewith copies of the several opinions of the principal officers
of the Executive Departments, together with other correspondence and pertinent information
on the same subject.

The United States, who led the way in the overthrow of the feudal doctrine of perpetual allegiance,
are among the last to indicate how their own citizens may elect another nationality. The papers
submitted herewith indicate what is necessary to place us on a par with other leading nations
in liberality of legislation on this international question. We have already in our treaties
assented to the principles which would need to be embodied in laws intended to accomplish such
results. We have agreed that citizens of the United States may cease to be citizens and may
voluntarily render allegiance to other powers. We have agreed that residence in a foreign land,
without intent to return, shall of itself work expatriation. We have agreed in some instances
upon the length of time necessary for such continued residence to work a presumption of such
intent. I invite Congress now to mark out and define when and how expatriation can be accomplished;
to regulate by law the condition of American women marrying foreigners; to fix the status of
children born in a foreign country of American parents residing more or less permanently abroad,
and to make rules for determining such other kindred points as may seem best to Congress.

In compliance with the request of Congress, I transmitted to the American minister at Madrid,
with instructions to present it to the Spanish Government, the joint resolution approved on
the 3d of March last, tendering to the people of Spain, in the name and on the behalf of the
American people, the congratulations of Congress upon the efforts to consolidate in Spain the
principles of universal liberty in a republican form of government.

The existence of this new Republic was inaugurated by striking the fetters from the slaves
in Porto Rico. This beneficent measure was followed by the release of several thousand persons
illegally held as slaves in Cuba. Next, the Captain-General of that colony was deprived of
the power to set aside the orders of his superiors at Madrid, which had pertained to the office
since 1825. The sequestered estates of American citizens, which had been the cause of long
and fruitless correspondence, were ordered to be restored to their owners. All these liberal
steps were taken in the face of a violent opposition directed by the reactionary slave-holders
of Havana, who are vainly striving to stay the march of ideas which has terminated slavery
in Christendom, Cuba only excepted. Unhappily, however, this baneful influence has thus far
succeeded in defeating the efforts of all liberal-minded men in Spain to abolish slavery in
Cuba, and in preventing the promised reform in that island. The struggle for political supremacy
continues there.

The proslavery and aristocratic party in Cuba is gradually arraigning itself in more and more
open hostility and defiance of the home government, while it still maintains a political connection
with the Republic in the peninsula; and although usurping and defying the authority of the
home government whenever such usurpation or defiance tends in the direction of oppression or
of the maintenance of abuses, it is still a power in Madrid, and is recognized by the Government.
Thus an element more dangerous to continued colonial relations between Cuba and Spain than
that which inspired the insurrection at Yara--an element opposed to granting any relief from
misrule and abuse, with no aspirations after freedom, commanding no sympathies in generous
breasts, aiming to rivet still stronger the shackles of slavery and oppression--has seized
many of the emblems of power in Cuba, and, under professions of loyalty to the mother country,
is exhausting the resources of the island, and is doing acts which are at variance with those
principles of justice, of liberality, and of right which give nobility of character to a republic.
In the interests of humanity, of civilization, and of progress, it is to be hoped that this
evil influence may be soon averted.

The steamer Virginius was on the 26th day of September, 1870, duly registered at the port of
New York as a part of the commercial marine of the United States. On the 4th of October, 1870,
having received the certificate of her register in the usual legal form, she sailed from the
port of New York and has not since been within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States.
On the 31st day of October last, while sailing under the flag of the United States on the high
seas, she was forcibly seized by the Spanish gunboat Tornado, and was carried into the port
of Santiago de Cuba, where fifty-three of her passengers and crew were inhumanly, and, so far
at least as relates to those who were citizens of the United States, without due process of
law, put to death.

It is a well-established principle, asserted by the United States from the beginning of their
national independence, recognized by Great Britain and other maritime powers, and stated by
the Senate in a resolution passed unanimously on the 16th of June, 1858, that--American vessels
on the high seas in time of peace, bearing the American flag, remain under the jurisdiction
of the country to which they belong, and therefore any visitation, molestation, or detention
of such vessel by force, or by the exhibition of force, on the part of a foreign power is in
derogation of the sovereignty of the United States. In accordance with this principle, the
restoration of the Virginius and the surrender of the survivors of her passengers and crew,
and a due reparation to the flag, and the punishment of the authorities who had been guilty
of the illegal acts of violence, were demanded. The Spanish Government has recognized the justice
of the demand, and has arranged for the immediate delivery of the vessel, and for the surrender
of the survivors of the passengers and crew, and for a salute to the flag, and for proceedings
looking to the punishment of those who may be proved to have been guilty of illegal acts of
violence toward citizens of the United States, and also toward indemnifying those who may be
shown to be entitled to indemnity. A copy of a protocol of a conference between the Secretary
of State and the Spanish minister, in which the terms of this arrangement were agreed to, is
transmitted herewith.

The correspondence on this subject with the legation of the United States in Madrid was conducted
in cipher and by cable, and needs the verification of the actual text of the correspondence.
It has seemed to me to be due to the importance of the case not to submit this correspondence
until the accurate text can be received by mail. It is expected shortly, and will be submitted
when received.

In taking leave of this subject for the present I wish to renew the expression of my conviction
that the existence of African slavery in Cuba is a principal cause of the lamentable condition
of the island. I do not doubt that Congress shares with me the hope that it will soon be made
to disappear, and that peace and prosperity may follow its abolition.

The embargoing of American estates in Cuba, cruelty to American citizens detected in no act
of hostility to the Spanish Government, the murdering of prisoners taken with arms in their
hands, and, finally, the capture upon the high seas of a vessel sailing under the United States
flag and bearing a United States registry have culminated in an outburst of indignation that
has seemed for a time to threaten war. Pending negotiations between the United States and the
Government of Spain on the subject of this capture, I have authorized the Secretary of the
Navy to put our Navy on a war footing, to the extent, at least, of the entire annual appropriation
for that branch of the service, trusting to Congress and the public opinion of the American
people to justify my action.

Assuming from the action of the last Congress in appointing a Committee on Privileges and Elections
to prepare and report to this Congress a constitutional amendment to provide a better method
of electing the President and Vice-President of the United States, and also from the necessity
of such an amendment, that there will be submitted to the State legislatures for ratification
such an improvement in our Constitution, I suggest two others for your consideration:

First. To authorize the Executive to approve of so much of any measure passing the two Houses
of Congress as his judgment may dictate, without approving the whole, the disapproved portion
or portions to be subjected to the same rules as now, to wit, to be referred back to the House
in which the measure or measures originated, and, if passed by a two-thirds vote of the two
Houses, then to become a law without the approval of the President. I would add to this a provision
that there should be no legislation by Congress during the last twenty-four hours of its sitting,
except upon vetoes, in order to give the Executive an opportunity to examine and approve or
disapprove bills understandingly.

Second. To provide by amendment that when an extra session of Congress is convened by Executive
proclamation legislation during the continuance of such extra session shall be confined to
such subjects as the Executive may bring before it from time to time in writing.

The advantages to be gained by these two amendments are too obvious for me to comment upon
them. One session in each year is provided for by the Constitution, in which there are no restrictions
as to the subjects of legislation by Congress. If more are required, it is always in the power
of Congress, during their term of office, to provide for sessions at any time. The first of
these amendments would protect the public against the many abuses and waste of public moneys
which creep into appropriation bills and other important measures passing during the expiring
hours of Congress, to which otherwise due consideration can not be given.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

The receipts of the Government from all sources for the last fiscal year were $333,738,204,
and expenditures on all accounts $290,345,245, thus showing an excess of receipts over expenditures
of $43,392,959. But it is not probable that this favorable exhibit will be shown for the present
fiscal year. Indeed, it is very doubtful whether, except with great economy on the part of
Congress in making appropriations and the same economy in administering the various Departments
of Government, the revenues will not fall short of meeting actual expenses, including interest
on the public debt.

I commend to Congress such economy, and point out two sources where It seems to me it might
commence, to wit, in the appropriations for public buildings in the many cities where work
has not yet been commenced; in the appropriations for river and harbor improvement in those
localities where the improvements are of but little benefit to general commerce, and for fortifications.

There is a still more fruitful source of expenditure, which I will point out later in this
message. I refer to the easy method of manufacturing claims for losses incurred in suppressing
the late rebellion.

I would not be understood here as opposing the erection of good, substantial, and even ornamental
buildings by the Government wherever such buildings are needed. In fact, I approve of the Government
owning its own buildings in all sections of the country, and hope the day is not far distant
when it will not only possess them, but will erect in the capital suitable residences for all
persons who now receive commutation for quarters or rent at Government expense, and for the
Cabinet, thus setting an example to the States which may induce them to erect buildings for
their Senators. But I would have this work conducted at a time when the revenues of the country
would abundantly justify it.

The revenues have materially fallen off for the first five months of the present fiscal year
from what they were expected to produce, owing to the general panic now prevailing, which commenced
about the middle of September last. The full effect of this disaster, if it should not prove
a "blessing in disguise," is yet to be demonstrated. In either event it is your duty to heed
the lesson and to provide by wise and well-considered legislation, as far as it lies in your
power, against its recurrence, and to take advantage of all benefits that may have accrued.

My own judgment is that, however much individuals may have suffered, one long step has been
taken toward specie payments; that we can never have permanent prosperity until a specie basis
is reached: and that a specie basis can not be reached and maintained until our exports, exclusive
of gold, pay for our imports, interest due abroad, and other specie obligations, or so nearly
so as to leave an appreciable accumulation of the precious metals in the country from the products
of our mines.

The development of the mines of precious metals during the past year and the prospective development
of them for years to come are gratifying in their results. Could but one-half of the gold extracted
from the mines be retained at home, our advance toward specie payments would be rapid.

To increase our exports sufficient currency is required to keep all the industries of the country
employed. Without this national as well as individual bankruptcy must ensue. Undue inflation,
on the other hand, while it might give temporary relief, would only lead to inflation of prices,
the impossibility of competing in our own markets for the products of home skill and labor,
and repeated renewals of present experiences. Elasticity to our circulating medium, therefore,
and just enough of it to transact the legitimate business of the country and to keep all industries
employed, is what is most to be desired. The exact medium is specie, the recognized medium
of exchange the world over. That obtained, we shall have a currency of an exact degree of elasticity.
If there be too much of it for the legitimate purposes of trade and commerce, it will flow
out of the country. If too little, the reverse will result. To hold what we have and to appreciate
our currency to that standard is the problem deserving of the most serious consideration of
Congress.

The experience of the present panic has proven that the currency of the country, based, as
it is, upon the credit of the country, is the best that has ever been devised. Usually in times
of such trials currency has become worthless, or so much depreciated in value as to inflate
the values of all the necessaries of life as compared with the currency. Everyone holding it
has been anxious to dispose of it on any terms. Now we witness the reverse. Holders of currency
hoard it as they did gold in former experiences of a like nature.

It is patent to the most casual observer that much more currency, or money, is required to
transact the legitimate trade of the country during the fall and winter months, when the vast
crops are being removed, than during the balance of the year. With our present system the amount
in the country remains the same throughout the entire year, resulting in an accumulation of
all the surplus capital of the country in a few centers when not employed in the moving of
crops, tempted there by the offer of interest on call loans. Interest being paid, this surplus
capital must earn this interest paid with a profit. Being subject to "call," it can not be
loaned, only in part at best, to the merchant or manufacturer for a fixed term. Hence, no matter
how much currency there might be in the country, it would be absorbed, prices keeping pace
with the volume, and panics, stringency, and disasters would ever be recurring with the autumn.
Elasticity in our monetary system, therefore, is the object to be attained first, and next
to that, as far as possible, a prevention of the use of other people's money in stock and other
species of speculation. To prevent the latter it seems to me that one great step would be taken
by prohibiting the national banks from paying interest on deposits, by requiring them to hold
their reserves in their own vaults, and by forcing them into resumption, though it would only
be in legal-tender notes. For this purpose I would suggest the establishment of clearing houses
for your consideration.

To secure the former many plans have been suggested, most, if not all, of which look to me
more like inflation on the one hand, or compelling the Government, on the other, to pay interest,
without corresponding benefits, upon the surplus funds of the country during the seasons when
otherwise unemployed.

I submit for your consideration whether this difficulty might not be overcome by authorizing
the Secretary of the Treasury to issue at any time to national banks of issue any amount of
their own notes below a fixed percentage of their issue (say 40 per cent), upon the banks'
depositing with the Treasurer of the United States an amount of Government bonds equal to the
amount of notes demanded, the banks to forfeit to the Government, say, 4 per cent of the interest
accruing on the bonds so pledged during the time they remain with the Treasurer as security
for the increased circulation, the bonds so pledged to be redeemable by the banks at their
pleasure, either in whole or in part, by returning their own bills for cancellation to an amount
equal to the face of the bonds withdrawn. I would further suggest for your consideration the
propriety of authorizing national banks to diminish their standing issue at pleasure, by returning
for cancellation their own bills and withdrawing so many United States bonds as are pledged
for the bills returned.

In view of the great actual contraction that has taken place in the currency and the comparative
contraction continuously going on, due to the increase of population, increase of manufactories
and all the industries, I do not believe there is too much of it now for the dullest period
of the year. Indeed, if clearing houses should be established, thus forcing redemption, it
is a question for your consideration whether banking should not be made free, retaining all
the safeguards now required to secure bill holders. In any modification of the present laws
regulating national banks, as a further step toward preparing for resumption of specie payments,
I invite your attention to a consideration of the propriety of exacting from them the retention
as a part of their reserve either the whole or a part of the gold interest accruing upon the
bonds pledged as security for their issue. I have not reflected enough on the bearing this
might have in producing a scarcity of coin with which to pay duties on imports to give it my
positive recommendation. But your attention is invited to the subject.

During the last four years the currency has been contracted, directly, by the withdrawal of
3 per cent certificates, compound-interest notes, and "seven-thirty" bonds outstanding on the
4th of March, 1869, all of which took the place of legal-tenders in the bank reserves to the
extent of $63,000,000.

During the same period there has been a much larger comparative contraction of the currency.
The population of the country has largely increased. More than 25,000 miles of railroad have
been built, requiring the active use of capital to operate them. Millions of acres of land
have been opened to cultivation, requiring capital to move the products. Manufactories have
multiplied beyond all precedent in the same period of time, requiring capital weekly for the
payment of wages and for the purchase of material; and probably the largest of all comparative
contraction arises from the organizing of free labor in the South. Now every laborer there
receives his wages, and, for want of savings banks, the greater part of such wages is carried
in the pocket or hoarded until required for use.

These suggestions are thrown out for your consideration, without any recommendation that they
shall be adopted literally, but hoping that the best method may be arrived at to secure such
an elasticity of the currency as will keep employed all the industries of the country and prevent
such an inflation as will put off indefinitely the resumption of specie payments, an object
so devoutly to be wished for by all, and by none more earnestly than the class of people most
directly interested--those who "earn their bread by the sweat of their brow." The decisions
of Congress on this subject will have the hearty support of the Executive.

In previous messages I have called attention to the decline in American shipbuilding and recommended
such legislation as would secure to us our proportion of the carrying trade. Stimulated by
high rates and abundance of freight, the progress for the last year in shipbuilding has been
very satisfactory. There has been an increase of about 3 per cent in the amount transported
in American vessels over the amount of last year. With the reduced cost of material which has
taken place, it may reasonably be hoped that this progress will be maintained, and even increased.
However, as we pay about $80,000,000 per annum to foreign vessels for the transportation to
a market of our surplus products, thus increasing the balance of trade against us to this amount,
the subject is one worthy of your serious consideration.

"Cheap transportation" is a subject that has attracted the attention of both producers and
consumers for the past few years, and has contributed to, if it has not been the direct cause
of, the recent panic and stringency.

As Congress, at its last session, appointed a special committee to investigate this whole subject
during the vacation and report at this session, I have nothing to recommend until their report
is read.

There is one work, however, of a national character, in which the greater portion of the East
and the West, the North and the South, are equally interested, to which I will invite your
attention.

The State of New York has a canal connecting Lake Erie with tide water on the Hudson River.
The State of Illinois has a similar work connecting Lake Michigan with navigable water on the
Illinois River, thus making water communication inland between the East and the West and South.
These great artificial water courses are the property of the States through which they pass,
and pay toll to those States. Would it not be wise statesmanship to pledge these States that
if they will open these canals for the passage of large vessels the General Government will
look after and keep in navigable condition the great public highways with which they connect,
to wit, the Overslaugh on the Hudson, the St. Clair Flats, and the Illinois and Mississippi
rivers? This would be a national work; one of great value to the producers of the West and
South in giving them cheap transportation for their produce to the seaboard and a market, and
to the consumers in the East in giving them cheaper food, particularly of those articles of
food which do not find a foreign market, and the prices of which, therefore, are not regulated
by foreign demands. The advantages of such a work are too obvious for argument. I submit the
subject to you, therefore, without further comment.

In attempting to regain our lost commerce and carrying trade I have heretofore called attention
to the States south of us offering a field where much might be accomplished. To further this
object I suggest that a small appropriation be made, accompanied with authority for the Secretary
of the Navy to fit out a naval vessel to ascend the Amazon River to the mouth of the Madeira;
thence to explore that river and its tributaries into Bolivia, and to report to Congress at
its next session, or as soon as practicable, the accessibility of the country by water, its
resources, and the population so reached. Such an exploration would cost but little; it can
do no harm, and may result in establishing a trade of value to both nations.

In further connection with the Treasury Department I would recommend a revision and codification
of the tariff laws and the opening of more mints for coining money, with authority to coin
for such nations as may apply.

WAR DEPARTMENT.

The attention of Congress is invited to the recommendations contained in the report of the
Secretary of War herewith accompanying.

The apparent great cost of supporting the Army is fully explained by this report, and I hope
will receive your attention.

While inviting your general attention to all the recommendations made by the Secretary of War,
there are two which I would especially invite you to consider: First, the importance of preparing
for war in time of peace by providing proper armament for our seacoast defenses. Proper armament
is of vastly more importance than fortifications. The latter can be supplied very speedily
for temporary purposes when needed; the former can not. The second is the necessity of reopening
promotion in the staff corps of the Army. Particularly is this necessity felt in the Medical,
Pay, and Ordnance departments.

At this time it is necessary to employ "contract surgeons" to supply the necessary medical
attendance required by the Army.

With the present force of the Pay Department it is now difficult to make the payments to troops
provided for by law. Long delays in payments are productive of desertions and other demoralization,
and the law prohibits the payment of troops by other than regular army paymasters.

There are now sixteen vacancies in the Ordnance Department, thus leaving that branch of the
service without sufficient officers to conduct the business of the different arsenals on a
large scale if ever required.

NAVY DEPARTMENT.

During the past year our Navy has been depleted by the sale of some vessels no longer fit for
naval service and by the condemnation of others not yet disposed of. This, however, has been
more than compensated for by the repair of six of the old wooden ships and by the building
of eight new sloops of war, authorized by the last Congress. The building of these latter has
occurred at a doubly fortunate time. They are about being completed at a time when they may
possibly be much needed, and the work upon them has not only given direct employment to thousands
of men, but has no doubt been the means of keeping open establishments for other work at a
time of great financial distress.

Since the commencement of the last month, however, the distressing occurrences which have taken
place in the waters of the Caribbean Sea, almost on our very seaboard, while they illustrate
most forcibly the necessity always existing that a nation situated like ours should maintain
in a state of possible efficiency a navy adequate to its responsibilities, has at the same
time demanded that all the effective force we really have shall be put in immediate readiness
for warlike service. This has been and is being done promptly and effectively, and I am assured
that all the available ships and every authorized man of the American Navy will be ready for
whatever action is required for the safety of our citizens or the maintenance of our honor.
This, of course, will require the expenditure in a short time of some of the appropriations
which were calculated to extend through the fiscal year, but Congress will, I doubt not, understand
and appreciate the emergency, and will provide adequately not only for the present preparation,
but for the future maintenance of our naval force. The Secretary of the Navy has during the
past year been quietly putting some of our most effective monitors in condition for service,
and thus the exigency finds us in a much better condition for work than we could possibly have
been without his action.

POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT.

A complete exhibit is presented in the accompanying report of the postmaster-General of the
operations of the Post-Office Department during the year. The ordinary postal revenues for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1873, amounted to $22,996,741.57, and the expenditures of all
kinds to $29,084,945.67. The increase of revenues over 1872 was $1,081,315.20, and the increase
of expenditures $2,426,753.36.

Independent of the payments made from special appropriations for mail steamship lines, the
amount drawn from the General Treasury to meet deficiencies was $5,265,475. The constant and
rapid extension of our postal service, particularly upon railways, and the improved facilities
for the collection, transmission, distribution, and delivery of the mails which are constantly
being provided account for the increased expenditures of this popular branch of the public service.

The total number of post-offices in operation on June 30, 1873, was 33,244, a net increase
of 1,381 over the number reported the preceding year. The number of Presidential offices was
1,363, an increase of 163 during the year. The total length of railroad mail routes at the
close of the year was 63,457 miles, an increase of 5,546 miles over the year 1872. Fifty-nine
railway post-office lines were in operation June 30, 1873, extending over 14,866 miles of railroad
routes and performing an aggregate service of 34,925 miles daily.

The number of letters exchanged with foreign countries was 27,459,185, an increase of 3,096,685
over the previous year, and the postage thereon amounted to $2,021,310.86. The total weight
of correspondence exchanged in the mails with European countries exceeded 912 tons, an increase
of 92 tons over the previous year. The total cost of the United States ocean steamship service,
including $725,000 paid from special appropriations to subsidized lines of mail steamers, was
$1,047,271.35.

New or additional postal conventions have been concluded with Sweden, Norway, Belgium, Germany,
Canada, Newfoundland, and Japan, reducing postage rates on correspondence exchanged with those
countries; and further efforts have been made to conclude a satisfactory postal convention
with France, but without success.

I invite the favorable consideration of Congress to the suggestions and recommendations of
the Postmaster-General for an extension of the free-delivery system in all cities having a
population of not less than 10,000; for the prepayment of postage on newspapers and other printed
matter of the second class; for a uniform postage and limit of weight on miscellaneous matter;
for adjusting the compensation of all postmasters not appointed by the President, by the old
method of commissions on the actual receipts of the office, instead of the present mode of
fixing the salary in advance upon special returns; and especially do I urge favorable action
by Congress on the important recommendations of the Postmaster-General for the establishment
of United States postal savings depositories.

Your attention is also again called to a consideration of the question of postal telegraphs
and the arguments adduced in support thereof, in the hope that you may take such action in
connection therewith as in your judgment will most contribute to the best interests of the country.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

Affairs in Utah require your early and special attention. The Supreme Court of the United States,
in the case of Clinton vs. Englebrecht, decided that the United States marshal of that Territory
could not lawfully summon jurors for the district courts; and those courts hold that the Territorial
marshal can not lawfully perform that duty, because he is elected by the legislative assembly,
and not appointed as provided for in the act organizing the Territory. All proceedings at law
are practically abolished by these decisions, and there have been but few or no jury trials
in the district courts of that Territory since the last session of Congress. Property is left
without protection by the courts, and crimes go unpunished. To prevent anarchy there it is
absolutely necessary that Congress provide the courts with some mode of obtaining jurors, and
I recommend legislation to that end, and also that the probate courts of the Territory, now
assuming to issue writs of injunction and habeas corpus and to try criminal cases and questions
as to land titles, be denied all jurisdiction not possessed ordinarily by courts of that description.

I have become impressed with the belief that the act approved March 2, 1867, entitled "An act
to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States," is productive of
more evil than good at this time. Many considerations might be urged for its total repeal,
but, if this is not considered advisable, I think it will not be seriously questioned that
those portions of said act providing for what is called involuntary bankruptcy operate to increase
the financial embarrassments of the country. Careful and prudent men very often become involved
in debt in the transaction of their business, and though they may possess ample property, if
it could be made available for that purpose, to meet all their liabilities, yet, on account
of the extraordinary scarcity of money, they may be unable to meet all their pecuniary obligations
as they become due, in consequence of which they are liable to be prostrated in their business
by proceedings in bankruptcy at the instance of unrelenting creditors. People are now so easily
alarmed as to monetary matters that the mere filing of a petition in bankruptcy by an unfriendly
creditor will necessarily embarrass, and oftentimes accomplish the financial ruin, of a responsible
business man. Those who otherwise might make lawful and just arrangements to relieve themselves
from difficulties produced by the present stringency in money are prevented by their constant
exposure to attack and disappointment by proceedings against them in bankruptcy, and, besides,
the law is made use of in many cases by obdurate creditors to frighten or force debtors into
a compliance with their wishes and into acts of injustice to other creditors and to themselves.
I recommend that so much of said act as provides for involuntary bankruptcy on account of the
suspension of payment be repealed.

Your careful attention is invited to the subject of claims against the Government and to the
facilities afforded by existing laws for their prosecution. Each of the Departments of State,
Treasury, and War has demands for many millions of dollars upon its files, and they are rapidly
accumulating. To these may be added those now pending before Congress, the Court of Claims,
and the Southern Claims Commission, making in the aggregate an immense sum. Most of these grow
out of the rebellion, and are intended to indemnify persons on both sides for their losses
during the war; and not a few of them are fabricated and supported by false testimony. Projects
are on foot, it is believed, to induce Congress to provide for new classes of claims, and to
revive old ones through the repeal or modification of the statute of limitations, by which
they are now barred. I presume these schemes, if proposed, will be received with little favor
by Congress, and I recommend that persons having claims against the United States cognizable
by any tribunal or Department thereof be required to present them at an early day, and that
legislation be directed as far as practicable to the defeat of unfounded and unjust demands
upon the Government; and I would suggest, as a means of preventing fraud, that witnesses be
called upon to appear in person to testify before those tribunals having said claims before
them for adjudication. Probably the largest saving to the National Treasury can be secured
by timely legislation on these subjects of any of the economic measures that will be proposed.

You will be advised of the operations of the Department of Justice by the report of the Attorney-General,
and I invite your attention to the amendments of existing laws suggested by him, with the view
of reducing the expenses of that Department.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.

The policy inaugurated toward the Indians at the beginning of the last Administration has been
steadily pursued, and, I believe, with beneficial results. It will be continued with only such
modifications as time and experience may demonstrate as necessary.

With the encroachment of civilization upon the Indian reservations and hunting grounds, disturbances
have taken place between the Indians and whites during the past year, and probably will continue
to do so until each race appreciates that the other has rights which must be respected.

The policy has been to collect the Indians as rapidly as possible on reservations, and as far
as practicable within what is known as the Indian Territory, and to teach them the arts of
civilization and self-support. Where found off their reservations, and endangering the peace
and safety of the whites, they have been punished, and will continue to be for like offenses.

The Indian Territory south of Kansas and west of Arkansas is sufficient in area and agricultural
resources to support all the Indians east of the Rocky Mountains. In time, no doubt, all of
them, except a few who may elect to make their homes among white people, will be collected
there. As a preparatory step for this consummation, I am now satisfied that a Territorial form
of government should be given them, which will secure the treaty rights of the original settlers
and protect their homesteads from alienation for a period of twenty years.

The operations of the Patent Office are growing to such a magnitude and the accumulation of
material is becoming so great that the necessity of more room is becoming more obvious day
by day. I respectfully invite your attention to the reports of the Secretary of the Interior
and Commissioner of Patents on this subject.

The business of the General Land Office exhibits a material increase in all its branches during
the last fiscal year. During that time there were disposed of out of the public lands 13,030,606
acres, being an amount greater by 1,165,631 acres than was disposed of during the preceding
year. Of the amount disposed of, 1,626,266 acres were sold for cash, 214,940 acres were located
with military land warrants, 3,793,612 acres were taken for homesteads, 653,446 acres were
located with agricultural-college scrip, 6,083,536 acres were certified by railroads, 76,576
acres were granted to wagon roads, 238,548 acres were approved to States as swamp lands, 138,681
acres were certified for agricultural colleges, common schools, universities, and seminaries,
190,775 acres were approved to States for internal improvements, and 14,222 acres were located
with Indian scrip. The cash receipts during the same time were $3,408,515.50, being $190,415.50
in excess of the receipts of the previous year. During the year 30,488,132 acres of public
land were surveyed, an increase over the amount surveyed the previous year of 1,037,193 acres,
and, added to the area previously surveyed, aggregates 616,554,895 acres which have been surveyed,
leaving 1,218,443,505 acres of the public land still unsurveyed.

The increased and steadily increasing facilities for reaching our unoccupied public domain
and for the transportation of surplus products enlarge the available field for desirable homestead
locations, thus stimulating settlement and extending year by year in a gradually increasing
ratio the area of occupation and cultivation.

The expressed desire of the representatives of a large colony of citizens of Russia to emigrate
to this country, as is understood, with the consent of their Government, if certain concessions
can be made to enable them to settle in a compact colony, is of great interest, as going to
show the light in which our institutions are regarded by an industrious, intelligent, and wealthy
people, desirous of enjoying civil and religious liberty; and the acquisition of so large an
immigration of citizens of a superior class would without doubt be of substantial benefit to
the country. I invite attention to the suggestion of the Secretary of the Interior in this behalf.

There was paid during the last fiscal year for pensions, including the expense of disbursement,
$29,185,289.62, being an amount less by $984,050.98 than was expended for the same purpose
the preceding year. Although this statement of expenditures would indicate a material reduction
in amount compared with the preceding year, it is believed that the changes in the pension
laws at the last session of Congress will absorb that amount the current year. At the close
of the last fiscal year there were on the pension rolls 99,804 invalid military pensioners
and 112,088 widows, orphans, and dependent relatives of deceased soldiers, making a total of
that class of 211,892; 18,266 survivors of the War of 1812 and 5,058 widows of soldiers of
that war pensioned under the act of Congress of February 14, 1871, making a total of that class
of 23,319; 1,480 invalid navy pensioners and 1,770 widows, orphans, and dependent relatives
of deceased officers, sailors, and marines of the Navy, making a total of navy pensioners of
3,200, and a grand total of pensioners of 311 classes of 238,411, showing a net increase during
the last fiscal year of 6,182. During the last year the names of 16,405 pensioners were added
to the rolls, and 10,223 names were dropped therefrom for various causes.

The system adopted for the detection of frauds against the Government in the matter of pensions
has been productive of satisfactory results, but legislation is needed to provide, if possible,
against the perpetration of such frauds in future.

The evidently increasing interest in the cause of education is a most encouraging feature in
the general progress and prosperity of the country, and the Bureau of Education is earnest
in its efforts to give proper direction to the new appliances and increased facilities which
are being offered to aid the educators of the country in their great work.

The Ninth Census has been completed, the report thereof published and distributed, and the
working force of the Bureau disbanded. The Secretary of the Interior renews his recommendation
for a census to be taken in 1875, to which subject the attention of Congress is invited. The
original suggestion in that behalf has met with the general approval of the country; and even
if it be not deemed advisable at present to provide for a regular quinquennial census, a census
taken in 1875, the report of which could be completed and published before the one hundredth
anniversary of our national independence, would be especially interesting and valuable, as
showing the progress of the country during the first century of our national existence. It
is believed, however, that a regular census every five years would be of substantial benefit
to the country, inasmuch as our growth hitherto has been so rapid that the results of the decennial
census are necessarily unreliable as a basis of estimates for the latter years of a decennial
period.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Under the very efficient management of the governor and the board of public works of this District
the city of Washington is rapidly assuming the appearance of a capital of which the nation
may well be proud. From being a most unsightly place three years ago, disagreeable to pass
through in summer in consequence of the dust arising from unpaved streets, and almost impassable
in the winter from the mud, it is now one of the most sightly cities in the country, and can
boast of being the best paved.

The work has been done systematically, the plans, grades, location of sewers, water and gas
mains being determined upon before the work was commenced, thus securing permanency when completed.
I question whether so much has ever been accomplished before in any American city for the same
expenditures. The Government having large reservations in the city, and the nation at large
having an interest in their capital, I recommend a liberal policy toward the District of Columbia,
and that the Government should bear its just share of the expense of these improvements. Every
citizen visiting the capital feels a pride in its growing beauty, and that he too is part owner
in the investments made here.

I would suggest to Congress the propriety of promoting the establishment in this District of
an institution of learning, or university of the highest class, by the donation of lands. There
is no place better suited for such an institution than the national capital. There is no other
place in which every citizen is so directly interested.

CIVIL-SERVICE REFORM.

In three successive messages to Congress I have called attention to the subject of "civil-service
reform."

Action has been taken so far as to authorize the appointment of a board to devise rules governing
methods of making appointments and promotions, but there never has been any action making these
rules, or any rules, binding, or even entitled to observance, where persons desire the appointment
of a friend or the removal of an official who may be disagreeable to them.

To have any rules effective they must have the acquiescence of Congress as well as of the Executive.
I commend, therefore, the subject to your attention, and suggest that a special committee of
Congress might confer with the Civil-Service Board during the present session for the purpose
of devising such rules as can be maintained, and which will secure the services of honest and
capable officials, and which will also protect them in a degree of independence while in office.

Proper rules will protect Congress, as well as the Executive, from much needless persecution,
and will prove of great value to the public at large.

I would recommend for your favorable consideration the passage of an enabling act for the admission
of Colorado as a State in the Union. It possesses all the elements of a prosperous State, agricultural
and mineral, and, I believe, has a population now to justify such admission. In connection
with this I would also recommend the encouragement of a canal for purposes of irrigation from
the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains to the Missouri River. As a rule I am opposed to further
donations of public lands for internal improvements owned and controlled by private corporations,
but in this instance I would make an exception. Between the Missouri River and the Rocky Mountains
there is an arid belt of public land from 300 to 500 miles in width, perfectly valueless for
the occupation of man, for the want of sufficient rain to secure the growth of any product.
An irrigating canal would make productive a belt as wide as the supply of water could be made
to spread over across this entire country, and would secure a cordon of settlements connecting
the present population of the mountain and mining regions with that of the older States. All
the land reclaimed would be clear gain. If alternate sections are retained by the Government,
I would suggest that the retained sections be thrown open to entry under the homestead laws,
or sold to actual settlers for a very low price.

I renew my previous recommendation to Congress for general amnesty. The number engaged in the
late rebellion yet laboring under disabilities is very small, but enough to keep up a constant
irritation. No possible danger can accrue to the Government by restoring them to eligibility
to hold office.

I suggest for your consideration the enactment of a law to better secure the civil rights which
freedom should secure, but has not effectually secured, to the enfranchised slave.

U. S. GRANT

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 7, 1874

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

Since the convening of Congress one year ago the nation has undergone a prostration in business
and industries such as has not been witnessed with us for many years. Speculation as to the
causes for this prostration might be indulged in without profit, because as many theories would
be advanced as there would be independent writers--those who expressed their own views without
borrowing--upon the subject. Without indulging in theories as to the cause of this prostration,
therefore, I will call your attention only to the fact, and to some plain questions as to which
it would seem there should be no disagreement.

During this prostration two essential elements of prosperity have been most abundant--labor
and capital. Both have been largely unemployed. Where security has been undoubted, capital
has been attainable at very moderate rates. Where labor has been wanted, it has been found
in abundance, at cheap rates compared with what--of necessaries and comforts of life--could
be purchased with the wages demanded. Two great elements of prosperity, therefore, have not
been denied us. A third might be added: Our soil and climate are unequaled, within the limits
of any contiguous territory under one nationality, for its variety of products to feed and
clothe a people and in the amount of surplus to spare to feed less favored peoples. Therefore,
with these facts in view, it seems to me that wise statesmanship, at this session of Congress,
would dictate legislation ignoring the past; directing in proper channels these great elements
of prosperity to any people. Debt, debt abroad, is the only element that can, with always a
sound currency, enter into our affairs to cause any continued depression in the industries
and prosperity of our people.

A great conflict for national existence made necessary, for temporary purposes, the raising
of large sums of money from whatever source attainable. It made it necessary, in the wisdom
of Congress--and I do not doubt their wisdom in the premises, regarding the necessity of the
times--to devise a system of national currency which it proved to be impossible to keep on
a par with the recognized currency of the civilized world. This begot a spirit of speculation
involving an extravagance and luxury not required for the happiness or prosperity of a people,
and involving, both directly and indirectly, foreign indebtedness. The currency, being of fluctuating
value, and therefore unsafe to hold for legitimate transactions requiring money, became a subject
of speculation within itself. These two causes, however, have involved us in a foreign indebtedness,
contracted in good faith by borrower and lender, which should be paid in coin, and according
to the bond agreed upon when the debt was contracted--gold or its equivalent. The good faith
of the Government can not be violated toward creditors without national disgrace. But our commerce
should be encouraged; American shipbuilding and carrying capacity increased; foreign markets
sought for products of the soil and manufactories, to the end that we may be able to pay these
debts. Where a new market can be created for the sale of our products, either of the soil,
the mine, or the manufactory, a new means is discovered of utilizing our idle capital and labor
to the advantage of the whole people. But, in my judgment, the first step toward accomplishing
this object is to secure a currency of fixed, stable value; a currency good wherever civilization
reigns; one which, if it becomes superabundant with one people, will find a market with some
other; a currency which has as its basis the labor necessary to produce it, which will give
to it its value. Gold and silver are now the recognized medium of exchange the civilized world
over, and to this we should return with the least practicable delay. In view of the pledges
of the American Congress when our present legal-tender system was adopted, and debt contracted,
there should be no delay--certainly no unnecessary delay--in fixing by legislation a method
by which we will return to specie. To the accomplishment of this end I invite your special
attention. I believe firmly that there can be no prosperous and permanent revival of business
and industries until a policy is adopted--with legislation to carry it out--looking to a return
to a specie basis. It is easy to conceive that the debtor and speculative classes may think
it of value to them to make so-called money abundant until they can throw a portion of their
burdens upon others. But even these, I believe, would be disappointed in the result if a course
should be pursued which will keep in doubt the value of the legal-tender medium of exchange.
A revival of productive industry is needed by all classes; by none more than the holders of
property, of whatever sort, with debts to liquidate from realization upon its sale. But admitting
that these two classes of citizens are to be benefited by expansion, would it be honest to
give it? Would not the general loss be too great to justify such relief? Would it not be just
as honest and prudent to authorize each debtor to issue his own legal-tenders to the extent
of his liabilities? Than to do this, would it not be safer, for fear of overissues by unscrupulous
creditors, to say that all debt obligations are obliterated in the United States, and now we
commence anew, each possessing all he has at the time free from incumbrance? These propositions
are too absurd to be entertained for a moment by thinking or honest people. Yet every delay
in preparation for final resumption partakes of this dishonesty, and is only less in degree
as the hope is held out that a convenient season will at last arrive for the good work of redeeming
our pledges to commence. It will never come, in my opinion, except by positive action by Congress,
or by national disasters which will destroy, for a time at least, the credit of the individual
and the State at large. A sound currency might be reached by total bankruptcy and discredit
of the integrity of the nation and of individuals. I believe it is in the power of Congress
at this session to devise such legislation as will renew confidence, revive all the industries,
start us on a career of prosperity to last for many years and to save the credit of the nation
and of the people. Steps toward the return to a specie basis are the great requisites to this
devoutly to be sought for end. There are others which I may touch upon hereafter.

A nation dealing in a currency below that of specie in value labors under two great disadvantages:
First, having no use for the world's acknowledged medium of exchange, gold and silver, these
are driven out of the country because there is no need for their use; second, the medium of
exchange in use being of a fluctuating value--for, after all, it is only worth just what it
will purchase of gold and silver, metals having an intrinsic value just in proportion to the
honest labor it takes to produce them--a larger margin must be allowed for profit by the manufacturer
and producer. It is months from the date of production to the date of realization. Interest
upon capital must be charged, and risk of fluctuation in the value of that which is to be received
in payment added. Hence high prices, acting as a protection to the foreign producer, who receives
nothing in exchange for the products of his skill and labor except a currency good, at a stable
value, the world over It seems to me that nothing is clearer than that the greater part of
the burden of existing prostration, for the want of a sound financial system, falls upon the
working man, who must after all produce the wealth, and the salaried man, who superintends
and conducts business. The burden falls upon them in two ways--by the deprivation of employment
and by the decreased purchasing power of their salaries. It is the duty of Congress to devise
the method of correcting the evils which are acknowledged to exist, and not mine. But I will
venture to suggest two or three things which seem to me as absolutely necessary to a return
to specie payments, the first great requisite in a return to prosperity. The legal-tender clause
to the law authorizing the issue of currency by the National Government should be repealed,
to take effect as to all contracts entered into after a day fixed in the repealing act--not
to apply, however, to payments of salaries by Government, or for other expenditures now provided
by law to be paid in currency, in the interval pending between repeal and final resumption.
Provision should be made by which the Secretary of the Treasury can obtain gold as it may become
necessary from time to time from the date when specie redemption commences. To this might and
should be added a revenue sufficiently in excess of expenses to insure an accumulation of gold
in the Treasury to sustain permanent redemption.

I commend this subject to your careful consideration, believing that a favorable solution is
attainable, and if reached by this Congress that the present and future generations will ever
gratefully remember it as their deliverer from a thraldom of evil and disgrace.

With resumption, free banking may be authorized with safety, giving the same full protection
to bill holders which they have under existing laws. Indeed, I would regard free banking as
essential. It would give proper elasticity to the currency. As more currency should be required
for the transaction of legitimate business, new banks would be started, and in turn banks would
wind up their business when it was found that there was a superabundance of currency. The experience
and judgment of the people can best decide just how much currency is required for the transaction
of the business of the country. It is unsafe to leave the settlement of this question to Congress,
the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Executive. Congress should make the regulation under
which banks may exist, but should not make banking a monopoly by limiting the amount of redeemable
paper currency that shall be authorized. Such importance do I attach to this subject, and so
earnestly do I commend it to your attention, that I give it prominence by introducing it at
the beginning of this message.

During the past year nothing has occurred to disturb the general friendly and cordial relations
of the United States with other powers.

The correspondence submitted herewith between this Government and its diplomatic representatives,
as also with the representatives of other countries, shows a satisfactory condition of all
questions between the United States and the most of those countries, and with few exceptions,
to which reference is hereafter made, the absence of any points of difference to be adjusted.

The notice directed by the resolution of Congress of June 17, 1874, to be given to terminate
the convention of July 17, 1858, between the United States and Belgium has been given, and
the treaty will accordingly terminate on the 1st day of July, 1875. This convention secured
to certain Belgian vessels entering the ports of the United States exceptional privileges which
are not accorded to our own vessels. Other features of the convention have proved satisfactory,
and have tended to the cultivation of mutually beneficial commercial intercourse and friendly
relations between the two countries. I hope that negotiations which have been invited will
result in the celebration of another treaty which may tend to the interests of both countries.

Our relations with China continue to be friendly. During the past year the fear of hostilities
between China and Japan, growing out of the landing of an armed force upon the island of Formosa
by the latter, has occasioned uneasiness. It is earnestly hoped, however, that the difficulties
arising from this cause will be adjusted, and that the advance of civilization in these Empires
may not be retarded by a state of war. In consequence of the part taken by certain citizens
of the United States in this expedition, our representatives in those countries have been instructed
to impress upon the Governments of China and Japan the firm intention of this country to maintain
strict neutrality in the event of hostilities, and to carefully prevent any infraction of law
on the part of our citizens.

In connection with this subject I call the attention of Congress to a generally conceded fact--that
the great proportion of the Chinese immigrants who come to our shores do not come voluntarily,
to make their homes with us and their labor productive of general prosperity, but come under
contracts with headmen, who own them almost absolutely. In a worse form does this apply to
Chinese women. Hardly a perceptible percentage of them perform any honorable labor, but they
are brought for shameful purposes, to the disgrace of the communities where settled and to
the great demoralization of the youth of those localities. If this evil practice can be legislated
against, it will be my pleasure as well as duty to enforce any regulation to secure so desirable
an end.

It is hoped that negotiations between the Government of Japan and the treaty powers, looking
to the further opening of the Empire and to the removal of various restrictions upon trade
and travel, may soon produce the results desired, which can not fail to inure to the benefit
of all the parties. Having on previous occasions submitted to the consideration of Congress
the propriety of the release of the Japanese Government from the further payment of the indemnity
under the convention of October 22, 1864, and as no action had been taken thereon, it became
my duty to regard the obligations of the convention as in force; and as the other powers interested
had received their portion of the indemnity in full, the minister of the United States in Japan
has, in behalf of this Government, received the remainder of the amount due to the United States
under the convention of Simonosaki. I submit the propriety of applying the income of a part,
if not of the whole, of this fund to the education in the Japanese language of a number of
young men to be under obligations to serve the Government for a specified time as interpreters
at the legation and the consulates in Japan. A limited number of Japanese youths might at the
same time be educated in our own vernacular, and mutual benefits would result to both Governments.
The importance of having our own citizens, competent and familiar with the language of Japan,
to act as interpreters and in other capacities connected with the legation and the consulates
in that country can not readily be overestimated.

The amount awarded to the Government of Great Britain by the mixed commission organized under
the provisions of the treaty of Washington in settlement of the claims of British subjects
arising from acts committed between April 13, 1861, and April 9, 1865, became payable, under
the terms of the treaty, within the past year, and was paid upon the 21st day of September,
1874. It appears equitable that opportunity should be offered to citizens of other states to
present their claims, as well as to those British subjects whose claims were not admissible
under the late commission, to the early decision of some competent tribunal. To this end I
recommend the necessary legislation to organize a court to dispose of all claims of aliens
of the nature referred to in an equitable and satisfactory manner, and to relieve Congress
and the Departments from the consideration of these questions.

The legislation necessary to extend to the colony of Newfoundland certain articles of the treaty
of Washington of the 8th day of May, 1871, having been had, a protocol to that effect was signed
in behalf of the United States and of Great Britain on the 28th day of May last, and was duly
proclaimed on the following day. A copy of the proclamation is submitted herewith.

A copy of the report of the commissioner appointed under the act of March 19, 1872, for surveying
and marking the boundary between the United States and the British possessions from the Lake
of the Woods to the summit of the Rocky Mountains is herewith transmitted. I am happy to announce
that the field work of the commission has been completed, and the entire line from the northwest
corner of the Lake of the Woods to the summit of the Rocky Mountains has been run and marked
upon the surface of the earth. It is believed that the amount remaining unexpended of the appropriation
made at the last session of Congress will be sufficient to complete the office work. I recommend
that the authority of Congress be given to the use of the unexpended balance of the appropriation
in the completion of the work of the commission in making its report and preparing the necessary
maps.

The court known as the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, created by an act of Congress
of the last session, has organized and commenced its work, and it is to be hoped that the claims
admissible under the provisions of the act may be speedily ascertained and paid.

It has been deemed advisable to exercise the discretion conferred upon the Executive at the
last session by accepting the conditions required by the Government of Turkey for the privilege
of allowing citizens of the United States to hold real estate in the former country, and by
assenting to a certain change in the jurisdiction of courts in the latter. A copy of the proclamation
upon these subjects is herewith communicated.

There has been no material change in our relations with the independent States of this hemisphere
which were formerly under the dominion of Spain. Marauding on the frontiers between Mexico
and Texas still frequently takes place, despite the vigilance of the civil and military authorities
in that quarter. The difficulty of checking such trespasses along the course of a river of
such length as the Rio Grande, and so often fordable, is obvious. It is hoped that the efforts
of this Government will be seconded by those of Mexico to the effectual suppression of these
acts of wrong.

From a report upon the condition of the business before the American and Mexican Joint Claims
Commission, made by the agent on the part of the United States, and dated October 28, 1874,
it appears that of the 1,017 claims filed on the part of citizens of the United States, 483
had been finally decided and 75 were in the hands of the umpire, leaving 462 to be disposed
of; and of the 998 claims filed against the United States, 726 had been finally decided, I
was before the umpire, and 271 remained to be disposed of. Since the date of such report other
claims have been disposed of, reducing somewhat the number still pending; and others have been
passed upon by the arbitrators. It has become apparent, in view of these figures and of the
fact that the work devolving on the umpire is particularly laborious, that the commission will
be unable to dispose of the entire number of claims pending prior to the 1st day of February,
1875--the date fixed for its expiration. Negotiations are pending looking to the securing of
the results of the decisions which have been reached and to a further extension of the commission
for a limited time, which it is confidently hoped will suffice to bring all the business now
before it to a final close.

The strife in the Argentine Republic is to be deplored, both on account of the parties thereto
and from the probable effects on the interests of those engaged in the trade to that quarter,
of whom the United States are among the principal. As yet, so far as I am aware, there has
been no violation of our neutrality rights, which, as well as our duties in that respect, it
shall be my endeavor to maintain and observe.

It is with regret I announce that no further payment has been received from the Government
of Venezuela on account of awards in favor of citizens of the United States. Hopes have been
entertained that if that Republic could escape both foreign and civil war for a few years its
great natural resources would enable it to honor its obligations. Though it is now understood
to be at peace with other countries, a serious insurrection is reported to be in progress in
an important region of that Republic. This may be taken advantage of as another reason to delay
the payment of the dues of our citizens.

The deplorable strife in Cuba continues without any marked change in the relative advantages
of the contending forces. The insurrection continues, but Spain has gained no superiority.
Six years of strife give to the insurrection a significance which can not be denied. Its duration
and the tenacity of its adherence, together with the absence of manifested power of suppression
on the part of Spain, can not be controverted, and may make some positive steps on the part
of other powers a matter of self-necessity. I had confidently hoped at this time to be able
to announce the arrangement of some of the important questions between this Government and
that of Spain, but the negotiations have been protracted. The unhappy intestine dissensions
of Spain command our profound sympathy, and must be accepted as perhaps a cause of some delay.
An early settlement, in part at least, of the questions between the Governments is hoped. In
the meantime, awaiting the results of immediately pending negotiations, I defer a further and
fuller communication on the subject of the relations of this country and Spain.

I have again to call the attention of Congress to the unsatisfactory condition of the existing
laws with reference to expatriation and the election of nationality. Formerly, amid conflicting
opinions and decisions, it was difficult to exactly determine how far the doctrine of perpetual
allegiance was applicable to citizens of the United States. Congress by the act of the 27th
of July, 1868, asserted the abstract right of expatriation as a fundamental principle of this
Government. Notwithstanding such assertion and the necessity of frequent application of the
principle, no legislation has been had defining what acts or formalities shall work expatriation
or when a citizen shall be deemed to have renounced or to have lost his citizenship. The importance
of such definition is obvious. The representatives of the United States in foreign countries
are continually called upon to lend their aid and the protection of the United States to persons
concerning the good faith or the reality of whose citizenship there is at least great question.
In some cases the provisions of the treaties furnish some guide; in others it seems left to
the person claiming the benefits of citizenship, while living in a foreign country, contributing
in no manner to the performance of the duties of a citizen of the United States, and without
intention at any time to return and undertake those duties, to use the claims to citizenship
of the United States simply as a shield from the performance of the obligations of a citizen
elsewhere.

The status of children born of American parents residing in a foreign country, of American
women who have married aliens, of American citizens residing abroad where such question is
not regulated by treaty, are all sources of frequent difficulty and discussion. Legislation
on these and similar questions, and particularly defining when and under what circumstances
expatriation can be accomplished or is to be presumed, is especially needed. In this connection
I earnestly call the attention of Congress to the difficulties arising from fraudulent naturalization.
The United States wisely, freely, and liberally offers its citizenship to all who may come
in good faith to reside within its limits on their complying with certain prescribed reasonable
and simple formalities and conditions. Among the highest duties of the Government is that to
afford firm, sufficient, and equal protection to all its citizens, whether native born or naturalized.
Care should be taken that a right carrying with it such support from the Government should
not be fraudulently obtained, and should be bestowed only upon full proof of a compliance with
the law; and yet frequent instances are brought to the attention of the Government of illegal
and fraudulent naturalization and of the unauthorized use of certificates thus improperly obtained.
In some cases the fraudulent character of the naturalization has appeared upon the face of
the certificate itself; in others examination discloses that the holder had not complied with
the law, and in others certificates have been obtained where the persons holding them not only
were not entitled to be naturalized, but had not even been within the United States at the
time of the pretended naturalization. Instances of each of these classes of fraud are discovered
at our legations, where the certificates of naturalization are presented either for the purpose
of obtaining passports or in demanding the protection of the legation. When the fraud is apparent
on the face of such certificates, they are taken up by the representatives of the Government
and forwarded to the Department of State. But even then the record of the court in which the
fraudulent naturalization occurred remains, and duplicate certificates are readily obtainable.
Upon the presentation of these for the issue of passports or in demanding protection of the
Government, the fraud sometimes escapes notice, and such certificates are not infrequently
used in transactions of business to the deception and injury of innocent parties. Without placing
any additional obstacles in the way of the obtainment of citizenship by the worthy and well-intentioned
foreigner who comes in good faith to cast his lot with ours, I earnestly recommend further
legislation to punish fraudulent naturalization and to secure the ready cancellation of the
record of every naturalization made in fraud.

Since my last annual message the exchange has been made of the ratification of treaties of
extradition with Belgium, Ecuador, Peru, and Salvador; also of a treaty of commerce and navigation
with Peru, and one of commerce and consular privileges with Salvador; all of which have been
duly proclaimed, as has also a declaration with Russia with reference to trade-marks.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury, which by law is made directly to Congress, and
forms no part of this message, will show the receipts and expenditures of the Government for
the last fiscal year, the amount received from each source of revenue, and the amount paid
out for each of the Departments of Government. It will be observed from this report that the
amount of receipts over expenditures has been but $2,344,882.30 for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1874, and that for the current fiscal year the estimated receipts over expenditures
will not much exceed $9,000,000. In view of the large national debt existing and the obligation
to add 1 per cent per annum to the sinking fund, a sum amounting now to over $34,000,000 per
annum, I submit whether revenues should not be increased or expenditures diminished to reach
this amount of surplus. Not to provide for the sinking fund is a partial failure to comply
with the contracts and obligations of the Government. At the last session of Congress a very
considerable reduction was made in rates of taxation and in the number of articles submitted
to taxation; the question may well be asked, whether or not, in some instances, unwisely. In
connection with this subject, too, I venture the opinion that the means of collecting the revenue,
especially from imports, have been so embarrassed by legislation as to make it questionable
whether or not large amounts are not lost by failure to collect, to the direct loss of the
Treasury and to the prejudice of the interests of honest importers and taxpayers.

The Secretary of the Treasury in his report favors legislation looking to an early return to
specie payments, thus supporting views previously expressed in this message. He also recommends
economy in appropriations; calls attention to the loss of revenue from repealing the tax on
tea and coffee, without benefit to the consumer; recommends an increase of 10 cents a gallon
on whisky, and, further, that no modification be made in the banking and currency bill passed
at the last session of Congress, unless modification should become necessary by reason of the
adoption of measures for returning to specie payments. In these recommendations I cordially join.

I would suggest to Congress the propriety of readjusting the tariff so as to increase the revenue,
and at the same time decrease the number of articles upon which duties are levied. Those articles
which enter into our manufactures and are not produced at home, it seems to me, should be entered
free. Those articles of manufacture which we produce a constituent part of, but do not produce
the whole, that part which we do not produce should enter free also. I will instance fine wool,
dyes, etc. These articles must be imported to form a part of the manufacture of the higher
grades of woolen goods. Chemicals used as dyes, compounded in medicines, and used in various
ways in manufactures come under this class. The introduction free of duty of such wools as
we do not produce would stimulate the manufacture of goods requiring the use of those we do
produce, and therefore would be a benefit to home production. There are many articles entering
into "home manufactures" which we do not produce ourselves the tariff upon which increases
the cost of producing the manufactured article. All corrections in this regard are in the direction
of bringing labor and capital in harmony with each other and of supplying one of the elements
of prosperity so much needed.

The report of the Secretary of War herewith attached, and forming a part of this message, gives
all the information concerning the operations, wants, and necessities of the Army, and contains
many suggestions and recommendations which I commend to your special attention.

There is no class of Government employees who are harder worked than the Army--officers and
men; none who perform their tasks more cheerfully and efficiently and under circumstances of
greater privations and hardships.

Legislation is desirable to render more efficient this branch of the public service. All the
recommendations of the Secretary of War I regard as judicious, and I especially commend to
your attention the following: The consolidation of Government arsenals; the restoration of
mileage to officers traveling under orders; the exemption of money received from the sale of
subsistence stores from being covered into the Treasury; the use of appropriations for the
purchase of subsistence stores without waiting for the beginning of the fiscal year for which
the appropriation is made; for additional appropriations for the collection of torpedo material;
for increased appropriations for the manufacture of arms; for relieving the various States
from indebtedness for arms charged to them during the rebellion; for dropping officers from
the rolls of the Army without trial for the offense of drawing pay more than once for the same
period; for the discouragement of the plan to pay soldiers by cheek, and for the establishment
of a professorship of rhetoric and English literature at West Point. The reasons for these
recommendations are obvious, and are set forth sufficiently in the reports attached. I also
recommend that the status of the staff corps of the Army be fixed, where this has not already
been done, so that promotions may be made and vacancies filled as they occur in each grade
when reduced below the number to be fixed by law. The necessity for such legislation is specially
felt now in the Pay Department. The number of officers in that department is below the number
adequate to the performance of the duties required of them by law.

The efficiency of the Navy has been largely increased during the last year. Under the impulse
of the foreign complications which threatened us at the commencement of the last session of
Congress, most of our efficient wooden ships were put in condition for immediate service, and
the repairs of our ironclad fleet were pushed with the utmost vigor. The result is that most
of these are now in an effective state and need only to be manned and put in commission to
go at once into service.

Some of the new sloops authorized by Congress are already in commission, and most of the remainder
are launched and wait only the completion of their machinery to enable them to take their places
as part of our effective force.

Two iron torpedo ships have been completed during the last year, and four of our large double-turreted
ironclads are now undergoing repairs. When these are finished, everything that is useful of
our Navy, as now authorized, will be in condition for service, and with the advance in the
science of torpedo warfare the American Navy, comparatively small as it is, will be found at
any time powerful for the purposes of a peaceful nation.

Much has been accomplished during the year in aid of science and to increase the sum of general
knowledge and further the interests of commerce and civilization. Extensive and much-needed
soundings have been made for hydrographic purposes and to fix the proper routes of ocean telegraphs.
Further surveys of the great Isthmus have been undertaken and completed, and two vessels of
the Navy are now employed, in conjunction with those of England, France, Germany, and Russia,
in observations connected with the transit of Venus, so useful and interesting to the scientific
world.

The estimates for this branch of the public service do not differ materially from those of
last year, those for the general support of the service being somewhat less and those for permanent
improvements at the various stations rather larger than the corresponding estimate made a year
ago. The regular maintenance and a steady increase in the efficiency of this most important
arm in proportion to the growth of our maritime intercourse and interests is recommended to
the attention of Congress.

The use of the Navy in time of peace might be further utilized by a direct authorization of
the employment of naval vessels in explorations and surveys of the supposed navigable waters
of other nationalities on this continent, especially the tributaries of the two great rivers
of South America, the Orinoco and the Amazon. Nothing prevents, under existing laws, such exploration,
except that expenditures must be made in such expeditions beyond those usually provided for
in the appropriations. The field designated is unquestionably one of interest and one capable
of large development of commercial interests--advantageous to the peoples reached and to those
who may establish relations with them.

Education of the people entitled to exercise the right of franchise I regard essential to general
prosperity everywhere, and especially so in republics, where birth, education, or previous
condition does not enter into account in giving suffrage. Next to the public school, the post-office
is the great agent of education over our vast territory. The rapidity with which new sections
are being settled, thus increasing the carrying of mails in a more rapid ratio than the increase
of receipts, is not alarming. The report of the Postmaster-General herewith attached shows
that there was an increase of revenue in his Department in 1873 over the previous year of $1,674,411,
and an increase of cost of carrying the mails and paying employees of $3,041,468.91. The report
of the Postmaster-General gives interesting statistics of his Department, and compares them
with the corresponding statistics of a year ago, showing a growth in every branch of the Department.

A postal convention has been concluded with New South Wales, an exchange of postal cards established
with Switzerland, and the negotiations pending for several years past with France have been
terminated in a convention with that country, which went into effect last August.

An international postal congress was convened in Berne, Switzerland, in September last, at
which the United States was represented by an officer of the Post-Office Department of much
experience and of qualification for the position. A convention for the establishment of an
international postal union was agreed upon and signed by the delegates of the countries represented,
subject to the approval of the proper authorities of those countries.

I respectfully direct your attention to the report of the Postmaster-General and to his suggestions
in regard to an equitable adjustment of the question of compensation to railroads for carrying
the mails.

Your attention will be drawn to the unsettled condition of affairs in some of the Southern States.

On the 14th of September last the governor of Louisiana called upon me, as provided by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, to aid in suppressing domestic violence in that
State. This call was made in view of a proclamation issued on that day by D. B. Penn, claiming
that he was elected lieutenant-governor in 1872, and calling upon the militia of the State
to arm, assemble, and drive from power the usurpers, as he designated the officers of the State
government. On the next day I issued my proclamation commanding the insurgents to disperse
within five days from the date thereof, and subsequently learned that on that day they had
taken forcible possession of the statehouse. Steps were taken by me to support the existing
and recognized State government, but before the expiration of the five days the insurrectionary
movement was practically abandoned, and the officers of the State government, with some minor
exceptions, resumed their powers and duties. Considering that the present State administration
of Louisiana has been the only government in that State for nearly two years; that it has been
tacitly acknowledged and acquiesced in as such by Congress, and more than once expressly recognized
by me, I regarded it as my clear duty, when legally called upon for that purpose, to prevent
its overthrow by an armed mob under pretense of fraud and irregularity in the election of 1872.
I have heretofore called the attention of Congress to this subject, stating that on account
of the frauds and forgeries committed at said election, and because it appears that the returns
thereof were never legally canvassed, it was impossible to tell thereby who were chosen; but
from the best sources of information at my command I have always believed that the present
State officers received a majority of the legal votes actually cast at that election. I repeat
what I said in my special message of February 23, 1873, that in the event of no action by Congress
I must continue to recognize the government heretofore recognized by me.

I regret to say that with preparations for the late election decided indications appeared in
some localities in the Southern States of a determination, by acts of violence and intimidation,
to deprive citizens of the freedom of the ballot because of their political opinions. Bands
of men, masked and armed, made their appearance; White Leagues and other societies were formed;
large quantities of arms and ammunition were imported and distributed to these organizations;
military drills, with menacing demonstrations, were held, and with all these murders enough
were committed to spread terror among those whose political action was to be suppressed, if
possible, by these intolerant and criminal proceedings. In some places colored laborers were
compelled to vote according to the wishes of their employers, under threats of discharge if
they acted otherwise; and there are too many instances in which, when these threats were disregarded,
they were remorselessly executed by those who made them. I understand that the fifteenth amendment
to the Constitution was made to prevent this and a like state of things, and the act of May
31, 1870, with amendments, was passed to enforce its provisions, the object of both being to
guarantee to all citizens the right to vote and to protect them in the free enjoyment of that
right. Enjoined by the Constitution "to take care that the laws be faithfully executed," and
convinced by undoubted evidence that violations of said act had been committed and that a widespread
and flagrant disregard of it was contemplated, the proper officers were instructed to prosecute
the offenders, and troops were stationed at convenient points to aid these officers, if necessary,
in the performance of their official duties. Complaints are made of this interference by Federal
authority; but if said amendment and act do not provide for such interference under the circumstances
as above stated, then they are without meaning, force, or effect, and the whole scheme of colored
enfranchisement is worse than mockery and little better than a crime. Possibly Congress may
find it due to truth and justice to ascertain, by means of a committee, whether the alleged
wrongs to colored citizens for political purposes are real or the reports thereof were manufactured
for the occasion.

The whole number of troops in the States of Louisiana, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina,
North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi, Maryland, and Virginia at the time
of the election was 4,082. This embraces the garrisons of all the forts from the Delaware to
the Gulf of Mexico.

Another trouble has arisen in Arkansas. Article 13 of the constitution of that State (which
was adopted in 1868, and upon the approval of which by Congress the State was restored to representation
as one of the States of the Union) provides in effect that before any amendments proposed to
this constitution shall become a part thereof they shall be passed by two successive assemblies
and then submitted to and ratified by a majority of the electors of the State voting thereon.
On the 11th of May, 1874, the governor convened an extra session of the general assembly of
the State, which on the 18th of the same month passed an act providing for a convention to
frame a new constitution. Pursuant to this act, and at an election held on the 30th of June,
1874, the convention was approved, and delegates were chosen thereto, who assembled on the
14th of last July and framed a new constitution, the schedule of which provided for the election
of an entire new set of State officers in a manner contrary to the then existing election laws
of the State. On the 13th of October, 1874, this constitution, as therein provided, was submitted
to the people for their approval or rejection, and according to the election returns was approved
by a large majority of those qualified to vote thereon; and at the same election persons were
chosen to fill all the State, county, and township offices. The governor elected in 1872 for
the term of four years turned over his office to the governor chosen under the new constitution,
whereupon the lieutenant-governor, also elected in 1872 for a term of four years, claiming
to act as governor, and alleging that said proceedings by which the new constitution was made
and a new set of officers elected were unconstitutional, illegal, and void, called upon me,
as provided in section 4, Article IV, of the Constitution, to protect the State against domestic
violence. As Congress is now investigating the political affairs of Arkansas, I have declined
to interfere.

The whole subject of Executive interference with the affairs of a State is repugnant to public
opinion, to the feelings of those who, from their official capacity, must be used in such interposition,
and to him or those who must direct. Unless most clearly on the side of law, such interference
becomes a crime; with the law to support it, it is condemned without a heating. I desire, therefore,
that all necessity for Executive direction in local affairs may become unnecessary and obsolete.
I invite the attention, not of Congress, but of the people of the United States, to the causes
and effects of these unhappy questions. Is there not a disposition on one side to magnify wrongs
and outrages, and on the other side to belittle them or justify them? If public opinion could
be directed to a correct survey of what is and to rebuking wrong and aiding the proper authorities
in punishing it, a better state of feeling would be inculcated, and the sooner we would have
that peace which would leave the States free indeed to regulate their own domestic affairs.
I believe on the part of our citizens of the Southern States--the better part of them--there
is a disposition to be law abiding, and to do no violence either to individuals or to the laws
existing. But do they do right in ignoring the existence of violence and bloodshed in resistance
to constituted authority? I sympathize with their prostrate condition, and would do all in
my power to relieve them, acknowledging that in some instances they have had most trying governments
to live under, and very oppressive ones in the way of taxation for nominal improvements, not
giving benefits equal to the hardships imposed. But can they proclaim themselves entirely irresponsible
for this condition? They can not. Violence has been rampant in some localities, and has either
been justified or denied by those who could have prevented it. The theory is even raised that
there is to be no further interference on the part of the General Government to protect citizens
within a State where the State authorities fail to give protection. This is a great mistake.
While I remain Executive all the laws of Congress and the provisions of the Constitution, including
the recent amendments added thereto, will be enforced with rigor, but with regret that they
should have added one jot or tittle to Executive duties or powers. Let there be fairness in
the discussion of Southern questions, the advocates of both or all political parties giving
honest, truthful reports of occurrences, condemning the wrong and upholding the tight, and
soon all will be well. Under existing conditions the negro votes the Republican ticket because
he knows his friends are of that party. Many a good citizen votes the opposite, not because
he agrees with the great principles of state which separate parties, but because, generally,
he is opposed to negro rule. This is a most delusive cry. Treat the negro as a citizen and
a voter, as he is and must remain, and soon parties will be divided, not on the color line,
but on principle. Then we shall have no complaint of sectional interference.

The report of the Attorney-General contains valuable recommendations relating to the administration
of justice in the courts of the United States, to which I invite your attention.

I respectfully suggest to Congress the propriety of increasing the number of judicial districts
in the United States to eleven (the present number being nine) and the creation of two additional
judgeships. The territory to be traversed by the circuit judges is so great and the business
of the courts so steadily increasing that it is growing more and more impossible for them to
keep up with the business requiring their attention. Whether this would involve the necessity
of adding two more justices of the Supreme Court to the present number I submit to the judgment
of Congress.

The attention of Congress is invited to the report of the Secretary of the Interior and to
the legislation asked for by him. The domestic interests of the people are more intimately
connected with this Department than with either of the other Departments of Government. Its
duties have been added to from time to time until they have become so onerous that without
the most perfect system and order it will be impossible for any Secretary of the Interior to
keep trace of all official transactions having his sanction and done in his name, and for which
he is held personally responsible.

The policy adopted for the management of Indian affairs, known as the peace policy, has been
adhered to with most beneficial results. It is confidently hoped that a few years more will
relieve our frontiers from danger of Indian depredations.

I commend the recommendation of the Secretary for the extension of the homestead laws to the
Indians and for some sort of Territorial government for the Indian Territory. A great majority
of the Indians occupying this Territory are believed yet to be incapable of maintaining their
rights against the more civilized and enlightened white man. Any Territorial form of government
given them, therefore, should protect them in their homes and property for a period of at least
twenty years, and before its final adoption should be ratified by a majority of those affected.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior herewith attached gives much interesting statistical
information, which I abstain from giving an abstract of, but refer you to the report itself.

The act of Congress providing the oath which pensioners must subscribe to before drawing their
pensions cuts off from this bounty a few survivors of the War of 1812 residing in the Southern
States. I recommend the restoration of this bounty to all such. The number of persons whose
names would thus be restored to the list of pensioners is not large. They are all old persons,
who could have taken no part in the rebellion, and the services for which they were awarded
pensions were in defense of the whole country.

The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture herewith contains suggestions of much interest
to the general public, and refers to the sly approaching Centennial and the part his Department
is ready to take in it. I feel that the nation at large is interested in having this exposition
a success, and commend to Congress such action as will secure a greater general interest in
it. Already many foreign nations have signified their intention to be represented at it, and
it may be expected that every civilized nation will be represented.

The rules adopted to improve the civil service of the Government have been adhered to as closely
as has been practicable with the opposition with which they meet. The effect, I believe, has
been beneficial on the whole, and has tended to the elevation of the service. But it is impracticable
to maintain them without direct and positive support of Congress. Generally the support which
this reform receives is from those who give it their support only to find fault when the rules
are apparently departed from. Removals from office without preferring charges against parties
removed are frequently cited as departures from the rules adopted, and the retention of those
against whom charges are made by irresponsible persons and without good grounds is also often
condemned as a violation of them. Under these circumstances, therefore, I announce that if
Congress adjourns without positive legislation on the subject of "civil-service reform" I will
regard such action as a disapproval of the system, and will abandon it, except so far as to
require examinations for certain appointees, to determine their fitness. Competitive examinations
will be abandoned.

The gentlemen who have given their services, without compensation, as members of the board
to devise rules and regulations for the government of the civil service of the country have
shown much zeal and earnestness in their work, and to them, as well as to myself, it will be
a source of mortification if it is to be thrown away. But I repeat that it is impossible to
carry this system to a successful issue without general approval and assistance and positive
law to support it.

I have stated that three elements of prosperity to the nation--capital, labor, skilled and
unskilled, and products of the soil--still remain with us. To direct the employment of these
is a problem deserving the most serious attention of Congress. If employment can be given to
all the labor offering itself, prosperity necessarily follows. I have expressed the opinion,
and repeat it, that the first requisite to the accomplishment of this end is the substitution
of a sound currency in place of one of a fluctuating value. This secured, there are many interests
that might be fostered to the great profit of both labor and capital. How to induce capital
to employ labor is the question. The subject of cheap transportation has occupied the attention
of Congress. Much new light on this question will without doubt be given by the committee appointed
by the last Congress to investigate and report upon this subject.

A revival of shipbuilding, and particularly of iron steamship building, is of vast importance
to our national prosperity. The United States is now paying over $100,000,000 per annum for
freights and passage on foreign ships--to be carried abroad and expended in the employment
and support of other peoples--beyond a fair percentage of what should go to foreign vessels,
estimating on the tonnage and travel of each respectively. It is to be regretted that this
disparity in the carrying trade exists, and to correct it I would be willing to see a great
departure from the usual course of Government in supporting what might usually be termed private
enterprise. I would not suggest as a remedy direct subsidy to American steamship lines, but
I would suggest the direct offer of ample compensation for carrying the mails between Atlantic
Seaboard cities and the Continent on American-owned and American-built steamers, and would
extend this liberality to vessels carrying the mails to South American States and to Central
America and Mexico, and would pursue the same policy from our Pacific seaports to foreign seaports
on the Pacific. It might be demanded that vessels built for this service should come up to
a standard fixed by legislation in tonnage, speed, and all other qualities, looking to the
possibility of Government requiring them at some time for war purposes. The right also of taking
possession of them in such emergency should be guarded.

I offer these suggestions, believing them worthy of consideration, in all seriousness, affecting
all sections and all interests alike. If anything better can be done to direct the country
into a course of general prosperity, no one will be more ready than I to second the plan.

Forwarded herewith will be found the report of the commissioners appointed under an act of
Congress approved June 20, 1874, to wind up the affairs of the District government. It will
be seen from the report that the net debt of the District of Columbia, less securities on hand
and available, is:

Bonded debt issued prior to July 1, 1874 - - $8,883,940.93

3.65 bonds, act of Congress June 20, 1874 - - 2,088,168.73

Certificates of the board of audit - - 4,770,558.45

- -

***

State of the Union Address Ulysses S. Grant December 7, 1875

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In submitting my seventh annual message to Congress, in this centennial year of our national
existence as a free and independent people, it affords me great pleasure to recur to the advancement
that has been made from the time of the colonies, one hundred years ago. We were then a people
numbering only 3,000,000. Now we number more than 40,000,000. Then industries were confined
almost exclusively to the tillage of the soil. Now manufactories absorb much of the labor of
the country.

Our liberties remain unimpaired; the bondmen have been freed from slavery; we have become possessed
of the respect, if not the friendship, of all civilized nations. Our progress has been great
in all the arts--in science, agriculture, commerce, navigation, mining, mechanics, law, medicine,
etc.; and in general education the progress is likewise encouraging. Our thirteen States have
become thirty-eight, including Colorado (which has taken the initiatory steps to become a State),
and eight Territories, including the Indian Territory and Alaska, and excluding Colorado, making
a territory extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific. On the south we have extended to the
Gulf of Mexico, and in the west from the Mississippi to the Pacific.

One hundred years ago the cotton gin, the steamship, the railroad, the telegraph, the reaping,
sewing, and modern printing machines, and numerous other inventions of scarcely less value
to our business and happiness were entirely unknown.

In 1776 manufactories scarcely existed even in name in all this vast territory. In 1870 more
than 2,000,000 persons were employed in manufactories, producing more than $2,100,000,000 of
products in amount annually, nearly equal to our national debt. From nearly the whole of the
population of 1776 being engaged in the one occupation of agriculture, in 1870 so numerous
and diversified had become the occupation of our people that less than 6,000,000 out of more
than 40,000,000 were so engaged. The extraordinary effect produced in our country by a resort
to diversified occupations has built a market for the products of fertile lands distant from
the seaboard and the markets of the world.

The American system of locating various and extensive manufactories next to the plow and the
pasture, and adding connecting railroads and steamboats, has produced in our distant interior
country a result noticeable by the intelligent portions of all commercial nations. The ingenuity
and skill of American mechanics have been demonstrated at home and abroad in a manner most
flattering to their pride. But for the extraordinary genius and ability of our mechanics, the
achievements of our agriculturists, manufacturers, and transporters throughout the country
would have been impossible of attainment.

The progress of the miner has also been great. Of coal our production has small; now many millions
of tons are mined annually. So with iron, which formed scarcely an appreciable part of our
products half a century ago, we now produce more than the world consumed at the beginning of
our national existence. Lead, zinc, and copper, from being articles of import, we may expect
to be large exporters of in the near future. The development of gold and silver mines in the
United States and Territories has not only been remarkable, but has had a large influence upon
the business of all commercial nations. Our merchants in the last hundred years have had a
success and have established a reputation for enterprise, sagacity, progress, and integrity
unsurpassed by peoples of older nationalities. This "good name" is not confined to their homes,
but goes out upon every sea and into every port where commerce enters. With equal pride we
can point to our progress in all of the learned professions.

As we are now about to enter upon our second centennial--commenting our manhood as a nation--it
is well to look back upon the past and study what will be best to preserve and advance our
future greatness From the fall of Adam for his transgression to the present day no nation has
ever been free from threatened danger to its prosperity and happiness. We should look to the
dangers threatening us, and remedy them so far as lies in our power. We are a republic whereof
one man is as good as another before the law. Under such a form of government it is of the
greatest importance that all should be possessed of education and intelligence enough to cast
a vote with a right understanding of its meaning. A large association of ignorant men can not
for any considerable period oppose a successful resistance to tyranny and oppression from the
educated few, but will inevitably sink into acquiescence to the will of intelligence, whether
directed by the demagogue or by priestcraft. Hence the education of the masses becomes of the
first necessity for the preservation of our institutions. They are worth preserving, because
they have secured the greatest good to the greatest proportion of the population of any form
of government yet devised. All other forms of government approach it just in proportion to
the general diffusion of education and independence of thought and action. As the primary step,
therefore, to our advancement in all that has marked our progress in the past century, I suggest
for your earnest consideration, and most earnestly recommend it, that a constitutional amendment
be submitted to the legislatures of the several States for ratification, making it the duty
of each of the several States to establish and forever maintain free public schools adequate
to the education of all the children in the rudimentary branches within their respective limits,
irrespective of sex, color, birthplace, or religions; forbidding the teaching in said schools
of religious, atheistic, or pagan tenets; and prohibiting the granting of any school funds
or school taxes, or any part thereof, either by legislative, municipal, or other authority,
for the benefit or in aid, directly or indirectly, of any religious sect or denomination, or
in aid or for the benefit of any other object of any nature or kind whatever.

In connection with this important question I would also call your attention to the importance
of correcting an evil that, if permitted to continue, will probably lead to great trouble in
our land before the close of the nineteenth century. It is the accumulation of vast amounts
of untaxed church property.

In 1850, I believe, the church property of the United States which paid no tax, municipal or
State, amounted to about $83,000,000. In 1860 the amount had doubled; in 1875 it is about $1,000,000,000.
By 1900, without check, it is safe to say this property will reach a sum exceeding $3,000,000,000.
So vast a sum, receiving all the protection and benefits of Government without bearing its
proportion of the burdens and expenses of the same, will not be looked upon acquiescently by
those who have to pay the taxes. In a growing country, where real estate enhances so rapidly
with time as in the United States, there is scarcely a limit to the wealth that may be acquired
by corporations, religious or otherwise, if allowed to retain real estate without taxation.
The contemplation of so vast a property as here alluded to, without taxation, may lead to sequestration
without constitutional authority and through blood.

I would suggest the taxation of all property equally, whether church or corporation, exempting
only the last resting place of the dead and possibly, with proper restrictions, church edifices.

Our relations with most of the foreign powers continue on a satisfactory and friendly footing.

Increased intercourse, the extension of commerce, and the cultivation of mutual interests have
steadily improved our relations with the large majority of the powers of the world, rendering
practicable the peaceful solution of questions which from time to time necessarily arise, leaving
few which demand extended or particular notice.

The correspondence of the Department of State with our diplomatic representatives abroad is
transmitted herewith.

I am happy to announce the passage of an act by the General Cortes of Portugal, proclaimed
since the adjournment of Congress, for the abolition of servitude in the Portuguese colonies.
It is to be hoped that such legislation may be another step toward the great consummation to
be reached, when no man shall be permitted, directly or indirectly, under any guise, excuse,
or form of law, to hold his fellow-man in bondage. I am of opinion also that it is the duty
of the United States, as contributing toward that end, and required by the spirit of the age
in which we live, to provide by suitable legislation that no citizen of the United States shall
hold slaves as property in any other country or be interested therein.

Chile has made reparation in the case of the whale ship Good Return, seized without sufficient
cause upward of forty years ago. Though she had hitherto denied her accountability, the denial
was never acquiesced in by this Government, and the justice of the claim has been so earnestly
contended for that it has been gratifying that she should have at last acknowledged it.

The arbitrator in the case of the United States steamer Montijo, for the seizure and detention
of which the Government of the United States of Colombia was held accountable, has decided
in favor of the claim. This decision has settled a question which had been pending for several
years, and which, while it continued open, might more or less disturb the good understanding
which it is desirable should be maintained between the two Republics.

A reciprocity treaty with the King of the Hawaiian Islands was concluded some months since.
As it contains a stipulation that it shall not take effect until Congress shall enact the proper
legislation for that purpose, copies of the instrument are herewith submitted, in order that,
if such should be the pleasure of Congress, the necessary legislation upon the subject may
be adopted.

In March last an arrangement was made, through Mr. Cushing, our minister in Madrid, with the
Spanish Government for the payment by the latter to the United States of the sum of $80,000
in coin, for the purpose of the relief of the families or persons of the ship's company and
certain passengers of the Virginius. This sum was to have been paid in three installments at
two months each. It is due to the Spanish Government that I should state that the payments
were fully and spontaneously anticipated by that Government, and that the whole amount was
paid within but a few days more than two months from the date of the agreement, a copy of which
is herewith transmitted. In pursuance of the terms of the adjustment, I have directed the distribution
of the amount among the parties entitled thereto, including the ship's company and such of
the passengers as were American citizens. Payments are made accordingly, on the application
by the parties entitled thereto.

The past year has furnished no evidence of an approaching termination of the ruinous conflict
which has been raging for seven years in the neighboring island of Cuba. The same disregard
of the laws of civilized warfare and of the just demands of humanity which has heretofore called
forth expressions of condemnation from the nations of Christendom has continued to blacken
the sad scene. Desolation, ruin, and pillage are pervading the rich fields of one of the most
fertile and productive regions of the earth, and the incendiary's torch, firing plantations
and valuable factories and buildings, is the agent marking the alternate advance or retreat
of contending parties.

The protracted continuance of this strife seriously affects the interests of all commercial
nations, but those of the United States more than others, by reason of close proximity, its
larger trade and intercourse with Cuba, and the frequent and intimate personal and social relations
which have grown up between its citizens and those of the island. Moreover, the property of
our citizens in Cuba is large, and is rendered insecure and depreciated in value and in capacity
of production by the continuance of the strife and the unnatural mode of its conduct. The same
is true, differing only in degree, with respect to the interests and people of other nations;
and the absence of any reasonable assurance of a near termination of the conflict must of necessity
soon compel the States thus suffering to consider what the interests of their own people and
their duty toward themselves may demand.

I have hoped that Spain would be enabled to establish peace in her colony, to afford security
to the property and the interests of our citizens, and allow legitimate scope to trade and
commerce and the natural productions of the island. Because of this hope, and from an extreme
reluctance to interfere in the most remote manner in the affairs of another and a friendly
nation, especially of one whose sympathy and friendship in the struggling infancy of our own
existence must ever be remembered with gratitude, I have patiently and anxiously waited the
progress of events. Our own civil conflict is too recent for us not to consider the difficulties
which surround a government distracted by a dynastic rebellion at home at the same time that
it has to cope with a separate insurrection in a distant colony. But whatever causes may have
produced the situation which so grievously affects our interests, it exists, with all its attendant
evils operating directly upon this country and its people. Thus far all the efforts of Spain
have proved abortive, and time has marked no improvement in the situation. The armed bands
of either side now occupy nearly the same ground as in the past, with the difference, from
time to time, of more lives sacrificed, more property destroyed, and wider extents of fertile
and productive fields and more and more of valuable property constantly wantonly sacrificed
to the incendiary's torch.

In contests of this nature, where a considerable body of people who have attempted to free
themselves of the control of the superior government have reached such point in occupation
of territory, in power, and in general organization as to constitute in fact a body politic;
having a government in substance as well as in name; possessed of the elements of stability
and equipped with the machinery for the administration of internal policy and the execution
of its laws; prepared and able to administer justice at home, as well as in its dealings with
other powers, it is within the province of those other powers to recognize its existence as
a new and independent nation. In such cases other nations simply deal with an actually existing
condition of things, and recognize as one of the powers of the earth that body politic which,
possessing the necessary elements, has in fact become a new power. In a word, the creation
of a new state is a fact.

To establish the condition of things essential to the recognition of this fact there must be
a people occupying a known territory, united under some known and defined form of government,
acknowledged by those subject thereto, in which the functions of government are administered
by usual methods, competent to mete out justice to citizens and strangers, to afford remedies
for public and for private wrongs, and able to assume the correlative international obligations
and capable of performing the corresponding international duties resulting from its acquisition
of the rights of sovereignty. A power should exist complete in its organization, ready to take
and able to maintain its place among the nations of the earth.

While conscious that the insurrection in Cuba has shown a strength and endurance which make
it at least doubtful whether it be in the power of Spain to subdue it, it seems unquestionable
that no such civil organization exists which may be recognized as an independent government
capable of performing its international obligations and entitled to be treated as one of the
powers of the earth. A recognition under such circumstances would be inconsistent with the
facts, and would compel the power granting it soon to support by force the government to which
it had really given its only claim of existence. In my judgment the United States should adhere
to the policy and the principles which have heretofore been its sure and safe guides in like
contests between revolted colonies and their mother country, and, acting only upon the clearest
evidence, should avoid any possibility of suspicion or of imputation.

A recognition of the independence of Cuba being, in my opinion, impracticable and indefensible,
the question which next presents itself is that of the recognition of belligerent rights in
the parties to the contest.

In a former message to Congress I had occasion to consider this question, and reached the conclusion
that the conflict in Cuba, dreadful and devastating as were its incidents, did not rise to
the fearful dignity of war. Regarding it now, after this lapse of time, I am unable to see
that any notable success or any marked or real advance on the part of the insurgents has essentially
changed the character of the contest. It has acquired greater age, but not greater or more
formidable proportions. It is possible that the acts of foreign powers, and even acts of Spain
herself, of this very nature, might be pointed to in defense of such recognition. But now,
as in its past history, the United States should carefully avoid the false lights which might
lead it into the mazes of doubtful law and of questionable propriety, and adhere rigidly and
sternly to the rule, which has been its guide, of doing only that which is right and honest
and of good report. The question of according or of withholding rights of belligerency must
be judged in every case in view of the particular attending facts. Unless justified by necessity,
it is always, and justly, regarded as an unfriendly act and a gratuitous demonstration of moral
support to the rebellion. It is necessary, and it is required, when the interests and rights
of another government or of its people are so far affected by a pending civil conflict as to
require a definition of its relations to the parties thereto. But this conflict must be one
which will be recognized in the sense of international law as war. Belligerence, too, is a
fact. The mere existence of contending armed bodies and their occasional conflicts do not constitute
war in the sense referred to. Applying to the existing condition of affairs in Cuba the tests
recognized by publicists and writers on international law, and which have been observed by
nations of dignity, honesty, and power when free from sensitive or selfish and unworthy motives,
I fail to find in the insurrection the existence of such a substantial political organization,
real, palpable, and manifest to the world, having the forms and capable of the ordinary functions
of government toward its own people and to other states, with courts for the administration
of justice, with a local habitation, possessing such organization of force, such material,
such occupation of territory, as to take the contest out of the category of a mere rebellious
insurrection or occasional skirmishes and place it on the terrible footing of war, to which
a recognition of belligerency would aim to elevate it. The contest, moreover, is solely on
land; the insurrection has not possessed itself of a single seaport whence it may send forth
its flag, nor has it any means of communication with foreign powers except through the military
lines of its adversaries. No apprehension of any of those sudden and difficult complications
which a war upon the ocean is apt to precipitate upon the vessels, both commercial and national,
and upon the consular officers of other powers calls for the definition of their relations
to the parties to the contest. Considered as a question of expediency, I regard the accordance
of belligerent rights still to be as unwise and premature as I regard it to be, at present,
indefensible as a measure of right. Such recognition entails upon the country according the
rights which flow from it difficult and complicated duties, and requires the exaction from
the contending parties of the strict observance of their rights and obligations; it confers
the right of search upon the high seas by vessels of both parties; it would subject the carrying
of arms and munitions of war, which now may be transported freely and without interruption
in the vessels of the United States, to detention and to possible seizure; it would give rise
to countless vexatious questions, would release the parent Government from responsibility for
acts done by the insurgents, and would invest Spain with the right to exercise the supervision
recognized by our treaty of 1795 over our commerce on the high seas, a very large part of which,
in its traffic between the Atlantic and the Gulf States and between all of them and the States
on the Pacific, passes through the waters which wash the shores of Cuba. The exercise of this
supervision could scarce fail to lead, if not to abuses, certainly to collisions perilous to
the peaceful relations of the two States. There can be little doubt to what result such supervision
would before long draw this nation. It would be unworthy of the United States to inaugurate
the possibilities of such result by measures of questionable right or expediency or by any
indirection. Apart from any question of theoretical right, I am satisfied that while the accordance
of belligerent rights to the insurgents in Cuba might give them a hope and an inducement to
protract the struggle, it would be but a delusive hope, and would not remove the evils which
this Government and its people are experiencing, but would draw the United States into complications
which it has waited long and already suffered much to avoid. The recognition of independence
or of belligerency being thus, in my judgment, equally inadmissible, it remains to consider
what course shall be adopted should the conflict not soon be brought to an end by acts of the
parties themselves, and should the evils which result therefrom, affecting all nations, and
particularly the United States, continue. In such event I am of opinion that other nations
will be compelled to assume the responsibility which devolves upon them, and to seriously consider
the only remaining measures possible--mediation and intervention, Owing, perhaps, to the large
expanse of water separating the island from the peninsula, the want of harmony and of personal
sympathy between the inhabitants of the colony and those sent thither to rule them, and want
of adaptation of the ancient colonial system of Europe to the present times and to the ideas
which the events of the past century have developed, the contending parties appear to have
within themselves no depository of common confidence to suggest wisdom when passion and excitement
have their sway and to assume the part of peacemaker. In this view in the earlier days of the
contest the good offices of the United States as a mediator were tendered in good faith, without
any selfish purpose, in the interest of humanity and in sincere friendship for both parties,
but were at the time declined by Spain, with the declaration, nevertheless, that at a future
time they would be indispensable. No intimation has been received that in the opinion of Spain
that time has been reached. And yet the strife continues, with all its dread horrors and all
its injuries to the interests of the United States and of other nations. Each party seems quite
capable of working great injury and damage to the other, as well as to all the relations and
interests dependent on the existence of peace in the island; but they seem incapable of reaching
any adjustment, and both have thus far failed of achieving any success whereby one party shall
possess and control the island to the exclusion of the other. Under these circumstances the
agency of others, either by mediation or by intervention, seems to be the only alternative
which must, sooner or later, be invoked for the termination of the strife. At the same time,
while thus impressed I do not at this time recommend the adoption of any measure of intervention.
I shall be ready at all times, and as the equal friend of both parties, to respond to a suggestion
that the good offices of the United States will be acceptable to aid in bringing about a peace
honorable to both. It is due to Spain, so far as this Government is concerned, that the agency
of a third power, to which I have adverted, shall be adopted only as a last expedient. Had
it been the desire of the United States to interfere in the affairs of Cuba, repeated opportunities
for so doing have been presented within the last few years; but we have remained passive, and
have performed our whole duty and all international obligations to Spain with friendship, fairness,
and fidelity, and with a spirit of patience and forbearance which negatives every possible
suggestion of desire to interfere or to add to the difficulties with which she has been surrounded.

The Government of Spain has recently submitted to our minister at Madrid certain proposals
which it is hoped may be found to be the basis, if not the actual submission, of terms to meet
the requirements of the particular griefs of which this Government has felt itself entitled
to complain. These proposals have not yet reached me in their full text. On their arrival they
will be taken into careful examination, and may, I hope, lead to a satisfactory adjustment
of the questions to which they refer and remove the possibility of future occurrences such
as have given rise to our just complaints.

It is understood also that renewed efforts are being made to introduce reforms in the internal
administration of the island. Persuaded, however, that a proper regard for the interests of
the United States and of its citizens entitles it to relief from the strain to which it has
been subjected by the difficulties of the questions and the wrongs and losses which arise from
the contest in Cuba, and that the interests of humanity itself demand the cessation of the
strife before the whole island shall be laid waste and larger sacrifices of life be made, I
shall feel it my duty, should my hopes of a satisfactory adjustment and of the early restoration
of peace and the removal of future causes of complaint be, unhappily, disappointed, to make
a further communication to Congress at some period not far remote, and during the present session,
recommending what may then seem to me to be necessary.

The free zone, so called, several years since established by the Mexican Government in certain
of the States of that Republic adjacent to our frontier, remains in full operation. It has
always been materially injurious to honest traffic, for it operates as an incentive to traders
in Mexico to supply without customs charges the wants of inhabitants on this side of the line,
and prevents the same wants from being supplied by merchants of the United States, thereby
to a considerable extent defrauding our revenue and checking honest commercial enterprise.

Depredations by armed bands from Mexico on the people of Texas near the frontier continue.
Though the main object of these incursions is robbery, they frequently result in the murder
of unarmed and peaceably disposed persons, and in some instances even the United States post-offices
and mail communications have been attacked. Renewed remonstrances upon this subject have been
addressed to the Mexican Government, but without much apparent effect. The military force of
this Government disposable for service in that quarter is quite inadequate to effectually guard
the line, even at those points where the incursions are usually made. An experiment of an armed
vessel on the Rio Grande for that purpose is on trial, and it is hoped that, if not thwarted
by the shallowness of the river and other natural obstacles, it may materially contribute to
the protection of the herdsmen of Texas.

The proceedings of the joint commission under the convention between the United States and
Mexico of the 4th of July, 1868, on the subject of claims, will soon be brought to a close.
The result of those proceedings will then be communicated to Congress.

I am happy to announce that the Government of Venezuela has, upon further consideration, practically
abandoned its objection to pay to the United States that share of its revenue which some years
since it allotted toward the extinguishment of the claims of foreigners generally. In thus
reconsidering its determination that Government has shown a just sense of self-respect which
can not fail to reflect credit upon it in the eyes of all disinterested persons elsewhere.
It is to be regretted, however, that its payments on account of claims of citizens of the United
States are still so meager in amount, and that the stipulations of the treaty in regard to
the sums to be paid and the periods when those payments were to take place should have been
so signally disregarded.

Since my last annual message the exchange has been made of the ratification of a treaty of
commerce and navigation with Belgium, and of conventions with the Mexican Republic for the
further extension of the joint commission respecting claims; with the Hawaiian Islands for
commercial reciprocity, and with the Ottoman Empire for extradition; all of which have been
duly proclaimed.

The Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims has prosecuted its important duties very assiduously
and very satisfactorily. It convened and was organized on the 22d day of July, 1874, and by
the terms of the act under which it was created was to exist for one year from that date. The
act provided, however, that should it be found impracticable to complete the work of the court
before the expiration of the year the President might by proclamation extend the time of its
duration to a period not more than six months beyond the expiration of the one year.

Having received satisfactory evidence that it would be impracticable to complete the work within
the time originally fixed, I issued a proclamation (a copy of which is presented herewith)
extending the time of duration of the court for a period of six months from and after the 22d
day of July last.

A report made through the clerk of the court (communicated herewith) shows the condition of
the calendar on the 1st of November last and the large amount of work which has been accomplished.
One thousand three hundred and eighty-two claims have been presented, of which 682 had been
disposed of at the date of the report. I am informed that 170 cases were decided during the
month of November. Arguments are being made and decisions given in the remaining cases with
all the dispatch consistent with the proper consideration of the questions submitted. Many
of these claims are in behalf of mariners, or depend on the evidence of mariners, whose absence
has delayed the taking or the return of the necessary evidence.

It is represented to me that it will be impracticable for the court to finally dispose of all
the cases before it within the present limit of its duration. Justice to the parties claimant,
who have been at large expense in preparing their claims and obtaining the evidence in their
support, suggests a short extension, to enable the court to dispose of all of the claims which
have been presented.

I recommend the legislation which may be deemed proper to enable the court to complete the
work before it.

I recommend that some suitable provision be made, by the creation of a special court or by
conferring the necessary jurisdiction upon some appropriate tribunal, for the consideration
and determination of the claims of aliens against the Government of the United States which
have arisen within some reasonable limitation of time, or which may hereafter arise, excluding
all claims barred by treaty provisions or otherwise. It has been found impossible to give proper
consideration to these claims by the Executive Departments of the Government. Such a tribunal
would afford an opportunity to aliens other than British subjects to present their claims on
account of acts committed against their persons or property during the rebellion, as also to
those subjects of Great Britain whose claims, having arisen subsequent to the 9th day of April,
1865, could not be presented to the late commission organized pursuant to the provisions of
the treaty of Washington.

The electric telegraph has become an essential and indispensable agent in the transmission
of business and social messages. Its operation on land, and within the limit of particular
states, is necessarily under the control of the jurisdiction within which it operates. The
lines on the high seas, however, are not subject to the particular control of any one government.

In 1869 a concession was granted by the French Government to a company which proposed to lay
a cable from the shores of France to the United States. At that time there was a telegraphic
connection between the United States and the continent of Europe (through the possessions of
Great Britain at either end of the line), under the control of an association which had, at
large outlay of capital and at great risk, demonstrated the practicability of maintaining such
means of communication. The cost of correspondence by this agency was great, possibly not too
large at the time for a proper remuneration for so hazardous and so costly an enterprise. It
was, however, a heavy charge upon a means of communication which the progress in the social
and commercial intercourse of the world found to be a necessity, and the obtaining of this
French concession showed that other capital than that already invested was ready to enter into
competition, with assurance of adequate return for their outlay. Impressed with the conviction
that the interests, not only of the people of the United States, but of the world at large,
demanded, or would demand, the multiplication of such means of communication between separated
continents, I was desirous that the proposed connection should be made; but certain provisions
of this concession were deemed by me to be objectionable, particularly one which gave for a
long term of years the exclusive right of telegraphic communication by submarine cable between
the shores of France and the United States. I could not concede that any power should claim
the right to land a cable on the shores of the United States and at the same time deny to the
United States, or to its citizens or grantees, an equal fight to land a cable on its shores.
The right to control the conditions for the laying of a cable within the jurisdictional waters
of the United States, to connect our shores with those of any foreign state, pertains exclusively
to the Government of the United States, under such limitations and conditions as Congress may
impose. In the absence of legislation by Congress I was unwilling, on the one hand, to yield
to a foreign state the right to say that its grantees might land on our shores while it denied
a similar right to our people to land on its shores, and, on the other hand, I was reluctant
to deny to the great interests of the world and of civilization the facilities of such communication
as were proposed. I therefore withheld any resistance to the landing of the cable on condition
that the offensive monopoly feature of the concession be abandoned, and that the right of any
cable which may be established by authority of this Government to land upon French territory
and to connect with French land lines and enjoy all the necessary facilities or privileges
incident to the use thereof upon as favorable terms as any other company be conceded. As the
result thereof the company in question renounced the exclusive privilege, and the representative
of France was informed that, understanding this relinquishment to be construed as granting
the entire reciprocity and equal facilities which had been demanded, the opposition to the
landing of the cable was withdrawn. The cable, under this French concession, was landed in
the month of July, 1869, and has been an efficient and valuable agent of communication between
this country and the other continent. It soon passed under the control, however, of those who
had the management of the cable connecting Great Britain with this continent, and thus whatever
benefit to the public might have ensued from competition between the two lines was lost, leaving
only the greater facilities of an additional line and the additional security in case of accident
to one of them. But these increased facilities and this additional security, together with
the control of the combined capital of the two companies, gave also greater power to prevent
the future construction of other lines and to limit the control of telegraphic communication
between the two continents to those possessing the lines already laid. Within a few months
past a cable has been laid, known as the United States Direct Cable Company, connecting the
United States directly with Great Britain. As soon as this cable was reported to be laid and
in working order the rates of the then existing consolidated companies were greatly reduced.
Soon, however, a break was announced in this new cable, and immediately the rates of the other
line, which had been reduced, were again raised. This cable being now repaired, the rates appear
not to be reduced by either line from those formerly charged by the consolidated companies.

There is reason to believe that large amounts of capital, both at home and abroad, are ready
to seek profitable investment in the advancement of this useful and most civilizing means of
intercourse and correspondence. They await, however, the assurance of the means and conditions
on which they may safely be made tributary to the general good.

As these cable telegraph lines connect separate states, there are questions as to their organization
and control which probably can be best, if not solely, settled by conventions between the respective
states. In the absence, however, of international conventions on the subject, municipal legislation
may secure many points which appear to me important, if not indispensable for the protection
of the public against the extortions which may result from a monopoly of the right of operating
cable telegrams or from a combination between several lines:

I. No line should be allowed to land on the shores of the United States under the concession
from another power which does not admit the right of any other line or lines, formed in the
United States, to land and freely connect with and operate through its land lines.

II. No line should be allowed to land on the shores of the United States which is not, by treaty
stipulation with the government from whose shores it proceeds, or by prohibition in its charter,
or otherwise to the satisfaction of this Government, prohibited from consolidating or amalgamating
with any other cable telegraph line, or combining therewith for the purpose of regulating and
maintaining the cost of telegraphing.

III. All lines should be bound to give precedence in the transmission of the official messages
of the governments of the two countries between which it may be laid.

IV. A power should be reserved to the two governments, either conjointly or to each, as regards
the messages dispatched from its shores, to fix a limit to the charges to be demanded for the
transmission of messages.

I present this subject to the earnest consideration of Congress.

In the meantime, and unless Congress otherwise direct, I shall not oppose the landing of any
telegraphic cable which complies with and assents to the points above enumerated, but will
feel it my duty to prevent the landing of any which does not conform to the first and second
points as stated, and which will not stipulate to concede to this Government the precedence
in the transmission of its official messages and will not enter into a satisfactory arrangement
with regard to its charges.

Among the pressing and important subjects to which, in my opinion, the attention of Congress
should be directed are those relating to fraudulent naturalization and expatriation.

The United States, with great liberality, offers its citizenship to all who in good faith comply
with the requirements of law. These requirements are as simple and upon as favorable terms
to the emigrant as the high privilege to which he is admitted can or should permit. I do not
propose any additional requirements to those which the law now demands; but the very simplicity
and the want of unnecessary formality in our law have made fraudulent naturalization not infrequent,
to the discredit and injury of all honest citizens, whether native or naturalized. Cases of
this character are continually being brought to the notice of the Government by our representatives
abroad, and also those of persons resident in other countries, most frequently those who, if
they have remained in this country long enough to entitle them to become naturalized, have
generally not much overpassed that period, and have returned to the country of their origin,
where they reside, avoiding all duties to the United States by their absence, and claiming
to be exempt from all duties to the country of their nativity and of their residence by reason
of their alleged naturalization. It is due to this Government itself and to the great mass
of the naturalized citizens who entirely, both in name and in fact, become citizens of the
United States that the high privilege of citizenship of the United States should not be held
by fraud or in derogation of the laws and of the good name of every honest citizen. On many
occasions it has been brought to the knowledge of the Government that certificates of naturalization
are held and protection or interference claimed by parties who admit that not only they were
not within the United States at the time of the pretended naturalization, but that they have
never resided in the United States; in others the certificate and record of the court show
on their face that the person claiming to be naturalized had not resided the required time
in the United States; in others it is admitted upon examination that the requirements of law
have not been complied with; in some cases, even, such certificates have been matter of purchase.
These are not isolated cases, arising at rare intervals, but of common occurrence, and which
are reported from all quarters of the globe. Such occurrences can not, and do not, fail to
reflect upon the Government and injure all honest citizens. Such a fraud being discovered,
however, there is no practicable means within the control of the Government by which the record
of naturalization can be vacated; and should the certificate be taken up, as it usually is,
by the diplomatic and consular representatives of the Government to whom it may have been presented,
there is nothing to prevent the person claiming to have been naturalized from obtaining a new
certificate from the court in place of that which has been taken from him.

The evil has become so great and of such frequent occurrence that I can not too earnestly recommend
that some effective measures be adopted to provide a proper remedy and means for the vacating
of any record thus fraudulently made, and of punishing the guilty parties to the transaction.

In this connection I refer also to the question of expatriation and the election of nationality.

The United States was foremost in upholding the right of expatriation, and was principally
instrumental in overthrowing the doctrine of perpetual allegiance. Congress has declared the
right of expatriation to be a natural and inherent right of all people; but while many other
nations have enacted laws providing what formalities shall be necessary to work a change of
allegiance, the United States has enacted no provisions of law and has in no respect marked
out how and when expatriation may be accomplished by its citizens. Instances are brought to
the attention of the Government where citizens of the United States, either naturalized or
native born, have formally become citizens or subjects of foreign powers, but who, nevertheless,
in the absence of any provisions of legislation on this question, when involved in difficulties
or when it seems to be their interest, claim to be citizens of the United States and demand
the intervention of a Government which they have long since abandoned and to which for years
they have rendered no service nor held themselves in any way amenable.

In other cases naturalized citizens, immediately after naturalization, have returned to their
native country; have become engaged in business; have accepted offices or pursuits inconsistent
with American citizenship, and evidence no intent to return to the United States until called
upon to discharge some duty to the country where they are residing, when at once they assert
their citizenship and call upon the representatives of the Government to aid them in their
unjust pretensions. It is but justice to all bona fide citizens that no doubt should exist
on such questions, and that Congress should determine by enactment of law how expatriation
may be accomplished and change of citizenship be established.

I also invite your attention to the necessity of regulating by law the status of American women
who may marry foreigners, and of defining more fully that of children born in a foreign country
of American parents who may reside abroad; and also of some further provision regulating or
giving legal effect to marriages of American citizens contracted in foreign countries. The
correspondence submitted herewith shows a few of the constantly occurring questions on these
points presented to the consideration of the Government. There are few subjects to engage the
attention of Congress on which more delicate relations or more important interests are dependent.

In the month of July last the building erected for the Department of State was taken possession
of and occupied by that Department. I am happy to announce that the archives and valuable papers
of the Government in the custody of that Department are now safely deposited and properly cared
for.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury shows the receipts from customs for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1874, to have been $163,103,833.69, and for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1875, to have been $157,267,722.35, a decrease for the last fiscal year of $5,936,111.34.
Receipts from internal revenue for the year ending the 30th of June, 1874, were $102,409,784.90,
and for the year ending June 30, 1875, $110,007,493.58; increase, $7,597,708.68.

The report also shows a complete history of the workings of the Department for the last year,
and contains recommendations for reforms and for legislation which I concur in, but can not
comment on so fully as I should like to do if space would permit, but will confine myself to
a few suggestions which I look upon as vital to the best interests of the whole people--coming
within the purview of "Treasury;" I mean specie resumption. Too much stress can not be laid
upon this question, and I hope Congress may be induced, at the earliest day practicable, to
insure the consummation of the act of the last Congress, at its last session, to bring about
specie resumption "on and after the 1st of January, 1879," at furthest. It would be a great
blessing if this could be consummated even at an earlier day.

Nothing seems to me more certain than that a full, healthy, and permanent reaction can not
take place in favor of the industries and financial welfare of the country until we return
to a measure of values recognized throughout the civilized world. While we use a currency not
equivalent to this standard the world's recognized standard, specie, becomes a commodity like
the products of the soil, the surplus seeking a market wherever there is a demand for it.

Under our present system we should want none, nor would we have any, were it not that customs
dues must be paid in coin and because of the pledge to pay interest on the public debt in coin.
The yield of precious metals would flow out for the purchase of foreign productions and the
United States "hewers of wood and drawers of water," because of wiser legislation on the subject
of finance by the nations with whom we have dealings. I am not prepared to say that I can suggest
the best legislation to secure the end most heartily recommended. It will be a source of great
gratification to me to be able to approve any measure of Congress looking effectively toward
securing "resumption."

Unlimited inflation would probably bring about specie payments more speedily than any legislation
looking to redemption of the legal-tenders in coin; but it would be at the expense of honor.
The legal-tenders would have no value beyond settling present liabilities, or, properly speaking,
repudiating them. They would buy nothing after debts were all settled.

There are a few measures which seem to me important in this connection and which I commend
to your earnest consideration:

A repeal of so much of the legal-tender act as makes these notes receivable for debts contracted
after a date to be fixed in the act itself, say not later than the 1st of January, 1877. We
should then have quotations at real values, not fictitious ones. Gold would no longer be at
a premium, but currency at a discount. A healthy reaction would set in at once, and with it
a desire to make the currency equal to what it purports to be. The merchants, manufacturers,
and tradesmen of every calling could do business on a fair margin of profit, the money to be
received having an unvarying value. Laborers and all classes who work for stipulated pay or
salary would receive more for their income, because extra profits would no longer be charged
by the capitalists to compensate for the risk of a downward fluctuation in the value of the
currency.

Second. That the Secretary of the Treasury be authorized to redeem, say, not to exceed $2,000,000
monthly of legal-tender notes, by issuing in their stead a long bond, bearing interest at the
rate of 3.65 per cent per annum, of denominations ranging from $50 up to $1,000 each. This
would in time reduce the legal-tender notes to a volume that could be kept afloat without demanding
redemption in large sums suddenly.

Third. That additional power be given to the Secretary of the Treasury to accumulate gold for
final redemption, either by increasing revenue, curtailing expenses, or both (it is preferable
to do both); and I recommend that reduction of expenditures be made wherever it can be done
without impairing Government obligations or crippling the due execution thereof. One measure
for increasing the revenue--and the only one I think of--is the restoration of the duty on
tea and coffee. These duties would add probably $18,000,000 to the present amount received
from imports, and would in no way increase the prices paid for those articles by the consumers.

These articles are the products of countries collecting revenue from exports, and as we, the
largest consumers, reduce the duties they proportionately increase them. With this addition
to the revenue, many duties now collected, and which give but an insignificant return for the
cost of collection, might be remitted, and to the direct advantage of consumers at home.

I would mention those articles which enter into manufactures of all sorts. All duty paid upon
such articles goes directly to the cost of the article when manufactured here, and must be
paid for by the consumers. These duties not only come from the consumers at home, but act as
a protection to foreign manufacturers of the same completed articles in our own and distant
markets.

I will suggest or mention another subject bearing upon the problem of "how to enable the Secretary
of the Treasury to accumulate balances." It is to devise some better method of verifying claims
against the Government than at present exists through the Court of Claims, especially those
claims growing out of the late war. Nothing is more certain than that a very large percentage
of the amounts passed and paid are either wholly fraudulent or are far in excess of the real
losses sustained. The large amount of losses proven--on good testimony according to existing
laws, by affidavits of fictitious or unscrupulous persons--to have been sustained on small
farms and plantations are not only far beyond the possible yield of those places for any one
year, but, as everyone knows who has had experience in tilling the soil and who has visited
the scenes of these spoliations, are in many instances more than the individual claimants were
ever worth, including their personal and real estate.

The report of the Attorney-General, which will be submitted to Congress at an early day, will
contain a detailed history of awards made and of claim pending of the class here referred to.

The report of the Secretary of War, accompanying this message, gives a detailed account of
Army operations for the year just passed, expenses for maintenance, etc., with recommendations
for legislation to which I respectfully invite your attention. To some of these I invite special
attention:

First. The necessity of making $300,000 of the appropriation for the Subsistence Department
available before the beginning of the next fiscal year. Without this provision troops at points
distant from supply production must either go without food or existing laws must be violated.
It is not attended with cost to the Treasury.

Second. His recommendation for the enactment of a system of annuities for the families of deceased
officers by voluntary deductions from the monthly pay of officers. This again is not attended
with burden upon the Treasury, and would for the future relieve much distress which every old
army officer has witnessed in the past--of officers dying suddenly or being killed, leaving
families without even the means of reaching their friends, if fortunate enough to have friends
to aid them.

Third. The repeal of the law abolishing mileage, and a return to the old system.

Fourth. The trial with torpedoes under the Corps of Engineers, and appropriation for the same.
Should war ever occur between the United States and any maritime power, torpedoes will be among
if not the most effective and cheapest auxiliary for the defense of harbors, and also in aggressive
operations, that we can have. Hence it is advisable to learn by experiment their best construction
and application, as well as effect.

Fifth. A permanent organization for the Signal-Service Corps. This service has now become a
necessity of peace as well as war, under the advancement made by the present able management.

Sixth. A renewal of the appropriation for compiling the official records of the war, etc.

The condition of our Navy at this time is a subject of satisfaction. It does not contain, it
is true, any of the powerful cruising ironclads which make so much of the maritime strength
of some other nations, but neither our continental situation nor our foreign policy requires
that we should have a large number of ships of this character, while this situation and the
nature of our ports combine to make those of other nations little dangerous to us under any
circumstances.

Our Navy does contain, however, a considerable number of ironclads of the monitor class, which,
though not properly cruisers, are powerful and effective for harbor defense and for operations
near our own shores. Of these all the single-turreted ones, fifteen in number, have been substantially
rebuilt, their rotten wooden beams replaced with iron, their hulls strengthened, and their
engines and machinery thoroughly repaired, so that they are now in the most efficient condition
and ready for sea as soon as they can be manned and put in commission.

The five double-turreted ironclads belonging to our Navy, by far the most powerful of our ships
for fighting purposes, are also in hand undergoing complete repairs, and could be ready for
sea in periods varying from four to six months. With these completed according to the present
design and our two iron torpedo boats now ready, our ironclad fleet will be, for the purposes
of defense at home, equal to any force that can readily be brought against it.

Of our wooden navy also cruisers of various sizes, to the number of about forty, including
those now in commission, are in the Atlantic, and could be ready for duty as fast as men could
be enlisted for those not already in commission. Of these, one-third are in effect new ships,
and though some of the remainder need considerable repairs to their boilers and machinery,
they all are, or can readily be made, effective.

This constitutes a fleet of more than fifty war ships, of which fifteen are ironclad, now in
hand on the Atlantic coast. The Navy has been brought to this condition by a judicious and
practical application of what could be spared from the current appropriations of the last few
years and from that made to meet the possible emergency of two years ago. It has been done
quietly, without proclamation or display, and though it has necessarily straitened the Department
in its ordinary expenditure, and, as far as the ironclads are concerned, has added nothing
to the cruising force of the Navy, yet the result is not the less satisfactory because it is
to be found in a great increase of real rather than apparent force. The expenses incurred in
the maintenance of an effective naval force in all its branches are necessarily large, but
such force is essential to our position, relations, and character, and affects seriously the
weight of our principles and policy throughout the whole sphere of national responsibilities.

The estimates for the regular support of this branch of the service for the next year amount
to a little less in the aggregate than those made for the current year; but some additional
appropriations are asked for objects not included in the ordinary maintenance of the Navy,
but believed to be of pressing importance at this time. It would, in my opinion, be wise at
once to afford sufficient means for the immediate completion of the five double-turreted monitors
now undergoing repairs, which must otherwise advance slowly, and only as money can be spared
from current expenses. Supplemented by these, our Navy, armed with the destructive weapons
of modern warfare, manned by our seamen, and in charge of our instructed officers, will present
a force powerful for the home purposes of a responsible though peaceful nation.

The report of the Postmaster-General herewith transmitted gives a full history of the workings
of the Department for the year just past. It will be observed that the deficiency to be supplied
from the General Treasury is increased over the amount required for the preceding year. In
a country so vast in area as the United States, with large portions sparsely settled, it must
be expected that this important service will be more or less a burden upon the Treasury for
many years to come. But there is no branch of the public service which interests the whole
people more than that of cheap and rapid transmission of the mails to every inhabited part
of our territory. Next to the free school, the post-office is the great educator of the people,
and it may well receive the support of the General Government.

The subsidy of $150,000 per annum given to vessels of the United States for carrying the mails
between New York and Rio de Janeiro having ceased on the 30th day of September last, we are
without direct mail facilities with the South American States. This is greatly to be regretted,
and I do not hesitate to recommend the authorization of a renewal of that contract, and also
that the service may be increased from monthly to semi-monthly trips. The commercial advantages
to be gained by a direct line of American steamers to the South American States will far outweigh
the expense of the service.

By act of Congress approved March 3, 1875, almost all matter, whether properly mail matter
or not, may be sent any distance through the mails, in packages not exceeding 4 pounds in weight,
for the sum of 16 cents per pound. So far as the transmission of real mail matter goes, this
would seem entirely proper; but I suggest that the law be so amended as to exclude from the
mails merchandise of all descriptions, and limit this transportation to articles enumerated,
and which may be classed as mail matter proper.

The discovery of gold in the Black Hills, a portion of the Sioux Reservation, has had the effect
to induce a large emigration of miners to that point. Thus far the effort to protect the treaty
rights of the Indians to that section has been successful, but the next year will certainly
witness a large increase of such emigration. The negotiations for the relinquishment of the
gold fields having failed, it will be necessary for Congress to adopt some measures to relieve
the embarrassment growing out of the causes named. The Secretary of the Interior suggests that
the supplies now appropriated for the sustenance of that people, being no longer obligatory
under the treaty of 1868, but simply a gratuity, may be issued or withheld at his discretion.

The condition of the Indian Territory, to which I have referred in several of my former annual
messages, remains practically unchanged. The Secretary of the Interior has taken measures to
obtain a full report of the condition of that Territory, and will make it the subject of a
special report at an early day. It may then be necessary to make some further recommendation
in regard to legislation for the government of that Territory.

The steady growth and increase of the business of the Patent Office indicates in some measure
the progress of the industrial activity of the country. The receipts of the office are in excess
of its expenditures, and the office generally is in a prosperous and satisfactory condition.

The report of the General Land Office shows that there were 2,459,601 acres less disposed of
during this than during the last year. More than one-half of this decrease was in lands disposed
of under the homestead and timber-culture laws. The cause of this decrease is supposed to be
found in the grasshopper scourge and the droughts which prevailed so extensively in some of
the frontier States and Territories during that time as to discourage and deter entries by
actual settlers. The cash receipts were less by $690,322.23 than during the preceding year.

The entire surveyed area of the public domain is 680,253,094 acres, of which 26,077,531 acres
were surveyed during the past year, leaving 1,154,471,762 acres still unsurveyed.

The report of the Commissioner presents many interesting suggestions in regard to the management
and disposition of the public domain and the modification of existing laws, the apparent importance
of which should insure for them the careful consideration of Congress.

The number of pensioners still continues to decrease, the highest number having been reached
during the year ending June 30, 1873. During the last year 11,557 names were added to the rolls,
and 12,977 were dropped therefrom, showing a net decrease of 1,420. But while the number of
pensioners has decreased, the annual amount due on the pension rolls has increased $44,733.13.
This is caused by the greatly increased average rate of pensions, which, by the liberal legislation
of Congress, has increased from $90.26 in 1872 to $103.91 in 1875 to each invalid pensioner,
an increase in the average rate of 15 per cent in the three years. During the year ending June
30, 1875, there was paid on account of pensions, including the expenses of disbursement, $29,683,116,
being $910,632 less than was paid the preceding year. This reduction in amount of expenditures
was produced by the decrease in the amount of arrearages due on allowed claims and on pensions
the rate of which was increased by the legislation of the preceding session of Congress. At
the close of the last fiscal year there were on the pension rolls 234,821 persons, of whom
210,363 were army pensioners, 105,478 being invalids and 104,885 widows and dependent relatives;
3,420 were navy pensioners, of whom 1,636 were invalids and 1,784 widows and dependent relatives;
21,038 were pensioners of the War of 1812, 15,875 of whom were survivors and 5,163 were widows.

It is estimated that $29,535,000 will be required for the payment of pensions for the next
fiscal year, an amount $965,000 less than the estimate for the present year.

The geological explorations have been prosecuted with energy during the year, covering an area
of about 40,000 square miles in the Territories of Colorado, Utah, and New Mexico, developing
the agricultural and mineral resources and furnishing interesting scientific and topographical
details of that region.

The method for the treatment of the Indians adopted at the beginning of my first term has been
steadily pursued, and with satisfactory and encouraging results. It has been productive of
evident improvement in the condition of that race, and will be continued, with only such modifications
as further experience may indicate to be necessary.

The board heretofore appointed to take charge of the articles and materials pertaining to the
War, the Navy, the Treasury, the Interior, and the Post-Office Departments, and the Department
of Agriculture, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Commission of Food Fishes, to be contributed,
under the legislation of last session, to the international exhibition to be held at Philadelphia
during the centennial year 1876, has been diligent in the discharge of the duties which have
devolved upon it; and the preparations so far made with the means at command give assurance
that the governmental contribution will be made one of the marked characteristics of the exhibition.
The board has observed commendable economy in the matter of the erection of a building for
the governmental exhibit, the expense of which it is estimated will not exceed, say, $80,000.
This amount has been withdrawn, under the law, from the appropriations of five of the principal
Departments, which leaves some of those Departments without sufficient means to render their
respective practical exhibits complete and satisfactory. The exhibition being an international
one, and the Government being a voluntary contributor, it is my opinion that its contribution
should be of a character, in quality and extent, to sustain the dignity and credit of so distinguished
a contributor. The advantages to the country of a creditable display are, in an international
point of view, of the first importance, while an indifferent or uncreditable participation
by the Government would be humiliating to the patriotic feelings of our people themselves.
I commend the estimates of the board for the necessary additional appropriations to the favorable
consideration of Congress.

The powers of Europe almost without exception, many of the South American States, and even
the more distant Eastern powers have manifested their friendly sentiments toward the United
States and the interest of the world in our progress by taking steps to join with us in celebrating
the centennial of the nation, and I strongly recommend that a more national importance be given
to this exhibition by such legislation and by such appropriation as will insure its success.
Its value in bringing to our shores innumerable useful works of art and skill, the commingling
of the citizens of foreign countries and our own, and the interchange of ideas and manufactures
will far exceed any pecuniary outlay we may make.

I transmit herewith the report of the Commissioner of Agriculture, together with the reports
of the Commissioners, the board of audit, and the board of health of the District of Columbia,
to all of which I invite your attention.

The Bureau of Agriculture has accomplished much in disseminating useful knowledge to the agriculturist,
and also in introducing new and useful productions adapted to our soil and climate, and is
worthy of the continued encouragement of the Government.

The report of the Commissioner of Education, which accompanies the report of the Secretary
of the Interior, shows a gratifying progress in educational matters.

In nearly every annual message that I have had the honor of transmitting to Congress I have
called attention to the anomalous, not to say scandalous, condition of affairs existing in
the Territory of Utah, and have asked for definite legislation to correct it. That polygamy
should exist in a free, enlightened, and Christian country, without the power to punish so
flagrant a crime against decency and morality, seems preposterous. True, there is no law to
sustain this unnatural vice; but what is needed is a law to punish it as a crime, and at the
same time to fix the status of the innocent children, the offspring of this system, and of
the possibly innocent plural wives. But as an institution polygamy should be banished from
the land.

While this is being done I invite the attention of Congress to another, though perhaps no less
an evil--the importation of Chinese women, but few of whom are brought to our shores to pursue
honorable or useful occupations.

Observations while visiting the Territories of Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado during the past
autumn convinced me that existing laws regulating the disposition of public lands, timber,
etc., and probably the mining laws themselves, are very defective and should be carefully amended,
and at an early day. Territory where cultivation of the soil can only be followed by irrigation,
and where irrigation is not practicable the lands can only be used as pasturage, and this only
where stock can reach water (to quench its thirst), can not be governed by the same laws as
to entries as lands every acre of which is an independent estate by itself.

Land must be held in larger quantities to justify the expense of conducting water upon it to
make it fruitful, or to justify utilizing it as pasturage. The timber in most of the Territories
is principally confined to the mountain regions, which are held for entry in small quantities
only, and as mineral lands. The timber is the property of the United States, for the disposal
of which there is now no adequate law. The settler must become a consumer of this timber, whether
he lives upon the plain or engages in working the mines. Hence every man becomes either a trespasser
himself or knowingly a patron of trespassers.

My opportunities for observation were not sufficient to justify me in recommending specific
legislation on these subjects, but I do recommend that a joint committee of the two Houses
of Congress, sufficiently large to be divided into subcommittees, be organized to visit all
the mining States and Territories during the coming summer, and that the committee shall report
to Congress at the next session such laws or amendments to laws as it may deem necessary to
secure the best interests of the Government and the people of these Territories, who are doing
so much for their development.

I am sure the citizens occupying the territory described do not wish to be trespassers, nor
will they be if legal ways are provided for them to become owners of these actual necessities
of their position.

As this will be the last annual message which I shall have the honor of transmitting to Congress
before my successor is chosen, I will repeat or recapitulate the questions which I deem of
vital importance which may be legislated upon and settled at this session:

First. That the States shall be required to afford the opportunity of a good common-school
education to every child within their limits.

Second. No sectarian tenets shall ever be taught in any school supported in whole or in part
by the State, nation, or by the proceeds of any tax levied upon any community. Make education
compulsory so far as to deprive all persons who can not read and write from becoming voters
after the year 1890, disfranchising none, however, on grounds of illiteracy who may be voters
at the time this amendment takes effect.

Third. Declare church and state forever separate and distinct, but each free within their proper
spheres; and that all church property shall bear its own proportion of taxation.

Fourth. Drive out licensed immorality, such as polygamy and the importation of women for illegitimate
purposes. To recur again to the centennial year, it would seem as though now, as we are about
to begin the second century of our national existence, would be a most fitting time for these
reforms.

Fifth. Enact such laws as will insure a speedy return to a sound currency, such as will command
the respect of the world.

Believing that these views will commend themselves to the great majority of the right-thinking
and patriotic citizens of the United States, I submit the rest to Congress.

It was my fortune, or misfortune, to be called to the office of Chief Executive without any
previous political training. From the age of 17 I had never even witnessed the excitement attending
a Presidential campaign but twice antecedent to my own candidacy, and at but one of them was
I eligible as a voter.

Under such circumstances it is but reasonable to suppose that errors of judgment must have
occurred. Even had they not, differences of opinion between the Executive, bound by an oath
to the strict performance of his duties, and writers and debaters must have arisen. It is not
necessarily evidence of blunder on the part of the Executive because there are these differences
of views. Mistakes have been made, as all can see and I admit, but it seems to me oftener in
the selections made of the assistants appointed to aid in carrying out the various duties of
administering the Government--in nearly every case selected without a personal acquaintance
with the appointee, but upon recommendations of the representatives chosen directly by the
people. It is impossible, where so many trusts are to be allotted, that the right parties should
be chosen in every instance. History shows that no Administration from the time of Washington
to the present has been free from these mistakes. But I leave comparisons to history, claiming
only that I have acted in every instance from a conscientious desire to do what was right,
constitutional, within the law, and for the very best interests of the whole people. Failures
have been errors of judgment, not of intent.

My civil career commenced, too, at a most critical and difficult time. Less than four years
before, the country had emerged from a conflict such as no other nation had ever survived.
Nearly one-half of the States had revolted against the Government, and of those remaining faithful
to the Union a large percentage of the population sympathized with the rebellion and made an
"enemy in the rear" almost as dangerous as the more honorable enemy in the front. The latter
committed errors of judgment, but they maintained them openly and courageously; the former
received the protection of the Government they would see destroyed, and reaped all the pecuniary
advantage to be gained out of the then existing state of affairs, many of them by obtaining
contracts and by swindling the Government in the delivery of their goods.

Immediately on the cessation of hostilities the then noble President, who had carried the country
so far through its perils, fell a martyr to his patriotism at the hands of an assassin.

The intervening time to my first inauguration was filled up with wranglings between Congress
and the new Executive as to the best mode of "reconstruction," or, to speak plainly, as to
whether the control of the Government should be thrown immediately into the hands of those
who had so recently and persistently tried to destroy it, or whether the victors should continue
to have an equal voice with them in this control. Reconstruction, as finally agreed upon, means
this and only this, except that the late slave was enfranchised, giving an increase, as was
supposed, to the Union-loving and Union-supporting votes. If free in the full sense of the
word, they would not disappoint this expectation. Hence at the beginning of my first Administration
the work of reconstruction, much embarrassed by the long delay, virtually commenced. It was
the work of the legislative branch of the Government. My province was wholly in approving their
acts, which I did most heartily, urging the legislatures of States that had not yet done so
to ratify the fifteenth amendment to the Constitution. The country was laboring under an enormous
debt, contracted in the suppression of rebellion, and taxation was so oppressive as to discourage
production. Another danger also threatened us--a foreign war. The last difficulty had to be
adjusted and was adjusted without a war and in a manner highly honorable to all parties concerned.
Taxes have been reduced within the last seven years nearly $300,000,000, and the national debt
has been reduced in the same time over $435,000,000. By refunding the 6 per cent bonded debt
for bonds bearing 5 and 4 1/2 per cent interest, respectively, the annual interest has been
reduced from over $130,000,000 in 1869 to but little over $100,000,000 in 1876. The balance
of trade has been changed from over $130,000,000 against the United States in 1869 to more
than $120,000,000 in our favor in 1876.

It is confidently believed that the balance of trade in favor of the United States will increase,
not diminish, and that the pledge of Congress to resume specie payments in 1879 will be easily
accomplished, even in the absence of much-desired further legislation on the subject.

A policy has been adopted toward the Indian tribes inhabiting a large portion of the territory
of the United States which has been humane and has substantially ended Indian hostilities in
the whole land except in a portion of Nebraska, and Dakota, Wyoming, and Montana Territories--the
Black Hills region and approaches thereto. Hostilities there have grown out of the avarice
of the white man, who has violated our treaty stipulations in his search for gold. The question
might be asked why the Government has not enforced obedience to the terms of the treaty prohibiting
the occupation of the Black Hills region by whites. The answer is simple: The first immigrants
to the Black Hills were removed by troops, but rumors of rich discoveries of gold took into
that region increased numbers. Gold has actually been found in paying quantity, and an effort
to remove the miners would only result in the desertion of the bulk of the troops that might
be sent there to remove them. All difficulty in this matter has, however, been removed--subject
to the approval of Congress--by a treaty ceding the Black Hills and approaches to settlement
by citizens.

The subject of Indian policy and treatment is so fully set forth by the Secretary of the Interior
and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and my views so fully expressed therein, that I refer
to their reports and recommendations as my own.

The relations of the United States with foreign powers continue on a friendly footing.

Questions have arisen from time to time in the foreign relations of the Government, but the
United States have been happily free during the past year from the complications and embarrassments
which have surrounded some of the foreign powers.

The diplomatic correspondence submitted herewith contains information as to certain of the
matters which have occupied the Government.

The cordiality which attends our relations with the powers of the earth has been plainly shown
by the general participation of foreign nations in the exhibition which has just closed and
by the exertions made by distant powers to show their interest in and friendly feelings toward
the United States in the commemoration of the centennial of the nation. The Government and
people of the United States have not only fully appreciated this exhibition of kindly feeling,
but it may be justly and fairly expected that no small benefits will result both to ourselves
and other nations from a better acquaintance, and a better appreciation of our mutual advantages
and mutual wants.

Congress at its last session saw fit to reduce the amount usually appropriated for foreign
intercourse by withholding appropriations for representatives of the United States in certain
foreign countries and for certain consular officers, and by reducing the amounts usually appropriated
for certain other diplomatic posts, and thus necessitating a change in the grade of the representatives.
For these reasons, immediately upon the passage of the bill making appropriations for the diplomatic
and consular service for the present fiscal year, instructions were issued to the representatives
of the United States at Bolivia, Ecuador, and Colombia, and to the consular officers for whom
no appropriation had been made, to close their respective legations and consulates and cease
from the performance of their duties; and in like manner steps were immediately taken to substitute
charge's d'affaires for ministers resident in Portugal, Denmark, Greece, Switzerland, and Paraguay.

While thoroughly impressed with the wisdom of sound economy in the foreign service, as in other
branches of the Government, I can not escape the conclusion that in some instances the withholding
of appropriations will prove an expensive economy, and that the small retrenchment secured
by a change of grade in certain diplomatic posts is not an adequate consideration for the loss
of influence and importance which will attend our foreign representatives under this reduction.
I am of the opinion that a reexamination of the subject will cause a change in some instances
in the conclusions reached on these subjects at the last session of Congress.

The Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, whose functions were continued by an act of the
last session of Congress until the 1st day of January, 1877, has carried on its labors with
diligence and general satisfaction. By a report from the clerk of the court, transmitted herewith,
bearing date November 14, 1876, it appears that within the time now allowed by law the court
will have disposed of all the claims presented for adjudication. This report also contains
a statement of the general results of the labors of the court to the date thereof. It is a
cause of satisfaction that the method adopted for the satisfaction of the classes of claims
submitted to the court, which are of long standing and justly entitled to early consideration,
should have proved successful and acceptable. The final agreements of the commissioners, with
the maps, have been duly signed, and the work of the commission is complete.

The fixing of the boundary upon the Pacific coast by the protocol of March 10, 1873, pursuant
to the award of the Emperor of Germany by Article XXXIV of the treaty of Washington, with the
termination of the work of this commission, adjusts and fixes the entire boundary between the
United States and the British possessions, except as to the portion of territory ceded by Russia
to the United States under the treaty of 1867. The work intrusted to the commissioner and the
officers of the Army attached to the commission has been well and satisfactorily performed.
The original of the final agreement of the commissioners, signed upon the 29th of May, 1876,
with the original official "lists of astronomical stations observed," the original official
"list of monuments marking the international boundary line," and the maps, records, and general
reports relating to the commission, have been deposited in the Department of State. The official
report of the commissioner on the part of the United States, with the report of the chief astronomer
of the United States, will be submitted to Congress within a short time.

I reserve for a separate communication to Congress a statement of the condition of the questions
which lately arose with Great Britain respecting the surrender of fugitive criminals under
the treaty of 1842.

The Ottoman Government gave notice, under date of January 15, 1874, of its desire to terminate
the treaty of 1862, concerning commerce and navigation, pursuant to the provisions of the twenty-second
article thereof. Under this notice the treaty terminated upon the 5th day of June, 1876. That
Government has invited negotiations toward the conclusion of a new treaty.

By the act of Congress of March 23, 1874, the President was authorized, when he should receive
satisfactory information that the Ottoman Government or that of Egypt had organized new tribunals
likely to secure to citizens of the United States the same impartial justice enjoyed under
the exercise of judicial functions by diplomatic and consular officers of the United States,
to suspend the operation of the act of June 22, 1860, and to accept for citizens of the United
States the jurisdiction of the new tribunals. Satisfactory information having been received
of the organization of such new tribunals in Egypt, I caused a proclamation to be issued upon
the 27th of March last, suspending the operation of the act of June 22, 1860, in Egypt, according
to the provisions of the act. A copy of the proclamation accompanies this message. The United
States has united with the other powers in the organization of these courts. It is hoped that
the jurisdictional questions which have arisen may be readily adjusted, and that this advance
in judicial reform may be hindered by no obstacles.

The necessary legislation to carry into effect the convention respecting commercial reciprocity
concluded with the Hawaiian Islands in 1875 having been had, the proclamation to carry into
effect the convention, as provided by the act approved August 15, 1876, was duly issued upon
the 9th day of September last. A copy thereof accompanies this message.

The commotions which have been prevalent in Mexico for some time past, and which, unhappily,
seem to be not yet wholly quieted, have led to complaints of citizens of the United States
of injuries by persons in authority. It is hoped, however, that these will ultimately be adjusted
to the satisfaction of both Governments. The frontier of the United States in that quarter
has not been exempt from acts of violence by citizens of one Republic on those of the other.
The frequency of these is supposed to be increased and their adjustment made more difficult
by the considerable changes in the course of the lower part of the Rio Grande River, which
river is a part of the boundary between the two countries. These changes have placed on either
side of that river portions of land which by existing conventions belong to the jurisdiction
of the Government on the opposite side of the river. The subject of adjustment of this cause
of difficulty is under consideration between the two Republics.

The Government of the United States of Colombia has paid the award in the case of the steamer
Montijo, seized by authorities of that Government some years since, and the amount has been
transferred to the claimants.

It is with satisfaction that I am able to announce that the joint commission for the adjustment
of claims between the United States and Mexico under the convention of 1868, the duration of
which has been several times extended, has brought its labors to a close. From the report of
the agent of the United States, which accompanies the papers transmitted herewith, it will
be seen that within the time limited by the commission 1,017 claims on the part of citizens
of the United States against Mexico were referred to the commission. Of these claims 831 were
dismissed or disallowed, and in 186 cases awards were made in favor of the claimants against
the Mexican Republic, amounting in the aggregate to $4,125,622.20. Within the same period 998
claims on the part of citizens of the Mexican Republic against the United States were referred
to the commission. Of these claims 831 were dismissed or disallowed, and in 167 cases awards
were made in favor of the claimants against the United States, amounting in the aggregate to
$150,498.41.

By the terms of the convention the amount of these awards is to be deducted from the amount
awarded in favor of our citizens against Mexico, and the balance only to be paid by Mexico
to the United States, leaving the United States to make provision for this proportion of the
awards in favor of its Own citizens.

I invite your attention to the legislation which will be necessary to provide for the payment.

In this connection I am pleased to be able to express the acknowledgments due to Sir Edward
Thornton, the umpire of the commission, who has given to the consideration of the large number
of claims submitted to him much time, unwearied patience, and that firmness and intelligence
which are well known to belong to the accomplished representative of Great Britain, and which
are likewise recognized by the representative in this country of the Republic of Mexico.

Monthly payments of a very small part of the amount due by the Government of Venezuela to citizens
of the United States on account of claims of the latter against that Government continue to
be made with reasonable punctuality. That Government has proposed to change the system which
it has hitherto pursued in this respect by issuing bonds for part of the amount of the several
claims. The proposition, however, could not, it is supposed, properly be accepted, at least
without the consent of the holders of certificates of the indebtedness of Venezuela. These
are so much dispersed that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain their disposition
on the subject.

In former messages I have called the attention of Congress to the necessity of legislation
with regard to fraudulent naturalization and to the subject of expatriation and the election
of nationality.

The numbers of persons of foreign birth seeking a home in the United States, the ease and facility
with which the honest emigrant may, after the lapse of a reasonable time, become possessed
of all the privileges of citizenship of the United States, and the frequent occasions which
induce such adopted citizens to return to the country of their birth render the subject of
naturalization and the safeguards which experience has proved necessary for the protection
of the honest naturalized citizen of paramount importance. The very simplicity in the requirements
of law on this question affords opportunity for fraud, and the want of uniformity in the proceedings
and records of the various courts and in the forms of the certificates of naturalization issued
affords a constant source of difficulty.

I suggest no additional requirements to the acquisition of citizenship beyond those now existing,
but I invite the earnest attention of Congress to the necessity and wisdom of some provisions
regarding uniformity in the records and certificates, and providing against the frauds which
frequently take place and for the vacating of a record of naturalization obtained in fraud.

These provisions are needed in aid and for the protection of the honest citizen of foreign
birth, and for the want of which he is made to suffer not infrequently. The United States has
insisted upon the right of expatriation, and has obtained, after a long struggle, an admission
of the principle contended for by acquiescence therein on the part of many foreign powers and
by the conclusion of treaties on that subject. It is, however, but justice to the government
to which such naturalized citizens have formerly owed allegiance, as well as to the United
States, that certain fixed and definite rules should be adopted governing such cases and providing
how expatriation may be accomplished.

While emigrants in large numbers become citizens of the United States, it is also true that
persons, both native born and naturalized, once citizens of the United States, either by formal
acts or as the effect of a series of facts and circumstances, abandon their citizenship and
cease to be entitled to the protection of the United States, but continue on convenient occasions
to assert a claim to protection in the absence of provisions on these questions.

And in this connection I again invite your attention to the necessity of legislation concerning
the marriages of American citizens contracted abroad, and concerning the status of American
women who may marry foreigners and of children born of American parents in a foreign country.

The delicate and complicated questions continually occurring with reference to naturalization,
expatriation, and the status of such persons as I have above referred to induce me to earnestly
direct your attention again to these subjects.

In like manner I repeat my recommendation that some means be provided for the hearing and determination
of the just and subsisting claims of aliens upon the Government of the United States within
a reasonable limitation, and of such as may hereafter arise. While by existing provisions of
law the Court of Claims may in certain cases be resorted to by an alien claimant, the absence
of any general provisions governing all such cases and the want of a tribunal skilled in the
disposition of such cases upon recognized fixed and settled principles, either provides no
remedy in many deserving cases or compels a consideration of such claims by Congress or the
executive department of the Government.

It is believed that other governments are in advance of the United States upon this question,
and that the practice now adopted is entirely unsatisfactory.

Congress, by an act approved the 3d day of March, 1875, authorized the inhabitants of the Territory
of Colorado to form a State government, with the name of the State of Colorado, and therein
provided for the admission of said State, when formed, into the Union upon an equal footing
with the original States.

A constitution having been adopted and ratified by the people of that State, and the acting
governor having certified to me the facts as provided by said act, together with a copy of
such constitution and ordinances as provided for in the said act, and the provisions of the
said act of Congress having been duly complied with, I issued a proclamation upon the 1st of
August, 1876, a copy of which is hereto annexed.

The report of the Secretary of War shows that the Army has been actively employed during the
year in subduing, at the request of the Indian Bureau, certain wild bands of the Sioux Indian
Nation and in preserving the peace at the South during the election. The commission constituted
under the act of July 24, 1876, to consider and report on the "whole subject of the reform
and reorganization of the Army" met in August last, and has collected a large mass of statistics
and opinions bearing on the subject before it. These are now under consideration, and their
report is progressing. I am advised, though, by the president of the commission that it will
be impracticable to comply with the clause of the act requiring the report to be presented,
through me, to Congress on the first day of this session, as there has not yet been time for
that mature deliberation which the importance of the subject demands. Therefore I ask that
the time of making the report be extended to the 29th day of January, 1877.

In accordance with the resolution of August 15, 1876, the Army regulations prepared under the
act of March 1, 1875, have not been promulgated, but are held until after the report of the
above-mentioned commission shall have been received and acted on.

By the act of August 15, 1876, the cavalry force of the Army was increased by 2,500 men, with
the proviso that they should be discharged on the expiration of hostilities. Under this authority
the cavalry regiments have been strengthened, and a portion of them are now in the field pursuing
the remnants of the Indians with whom they have been engaged during the summer.

The estimates of the War Department are made up on the basis of the number of men authorized
by law, and their requirements as shown by years of experience, and also with the purpose on
the part of the bureau officers to provide for all contingencies that may arise during the
time for which the estimates are made. Exclusive of engineer estimates (presented in accordance
with acts of Congress calling for surveys and estimates for improvements at various localities),
the estimates now presented are about six millions in excess of the appropriations for the
years 1874-75 and 1875-76. This increase is asked in order to provide for the increased cavalry
force (should their services be necessary), to prosecute economically work upon important public
buildings, to provide for armament of fortifications and manufacture of small arms, and to
replenish the working stock in the supply departments. The appropriations for these last named
have for the past few years been so limited that the accumulations in store will be entirely
exhausted during the present year, and it will be necessary to at once begin to replenish them.

I invite your special attention to the following recommendations of the Secretary of War:

First. That the claims under the act of July 4, 1864, for supplies taken by the Army during
the war be removed from the offices of the Quartermaster and Commissary Generals and transferred
to the Southern Claims Commission. These claims are of precisely similar nature to those now
before the Southern Claims Commission, and the War Department bureaus have not the clerical
force for their examination nor proper machinery for investigating the loyalty of the claimants.

Second. That Congress sanction the scheme of an annuity fund for the benefit of the families
of deceased officers, and that it also provide for the permanent organization of the Signal
Service, both of which were recommended in my last annual message.

Third. That the manufacturing operations of the Ordnance Department be concentrated at three
arsenals and an armory, and that the remaining arsenals be sold and the proceeds applied to
this object by the Ordnance Department.

The appropriations for river and harbor improvements for the current year were $5,015,000.
With my approval, the Secretary of War directed that of this amount $2,000,000 should be expended,
and no new works should be begun and none prosecuted which were not of national importance.
Subsequently this amount was increased to $2,237,600, and the works are now progressing on
this basis.

The improvement of the South Pass of the Mississippi River, under James B. Eads and his associates,
is progressing favorably. At the present time there is a channel of 20.3 feet in depth between
the jetties at the mouth of the pass and 18.5 feet at the head of the pass. Neither channel,
however, has the width required before payments can be made by the United States. A commission
of engineer officers is now examining these works, and their reports will be presented as soon
as received.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows that branch of the service to be in condition
as effective as it is possible to keep it with the means and authority given the Department.
It is, of course, not possible to rival the costly and progressive establishments of great
European powers with the old material of our Navy, to which no increase has been authorized
since the war, except the eight small cruisers built to supply the place of others which had
gone to decay. Yet the most has been done that was possible with the means at command; and
by substantially rebuilding some of our old ships with durable material and completely repairing
and refitting our monitor fleet the Navy has been gradually so brought up that, though it does
not maintain its relative position among the progressive navies of the world, it is now in
a condition more powerful and effective than it ever has been in time of peace.

The complete repairs of our five heavy ironclads are only delayed on account of the inadequacy
of the appropriations made last year for the working bureaus of the Department, which were
actually less in amount than those made before the war, notwithstanding the greatly enhanced
price of labor and materials and the increase in the cost of the naval service growing out
of the universal use and great expense of steam machinery. The money necessary for these repairs
should be provided at once, that they may be completed without further unnecessary delay and
expense.

When this is done, all the strength that there is in our Navy will be developed and useful
to its full capacity, and it will be powerful for purposes of defense, and also for offensive
action, should the necessity for that arise within a reasonable distance from our shores.

The fact that our Navy is not more modern and powerful than it is has been made a cause of
complaint against the Secretary of the Navy by persons who at the same time criticise and complain
of his endeavors to bring the Navy that we have to its best and most efficient condition; but
the good sense of the country will understand that it is really due to his practical action
that we have at this time any effective naval force at command.

The report of the Postmaster-General shows the excess of expenditures (excluding expenditures
on account of previous years) over receipts for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1876, to be
$4,151,988.66.

Estimated expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1878, are $36,723,432.43.

Estimated revenue for same period is $30,645,165, leaving estimated excess of expenditure,
to be appropriated as a deficiency, of $6,078,267.43.

The Postmaster-General, like his predecessor, is convinced that a change in the basis of adjusting
the salaries of postmasters of the fourth class is necessary for the good of the service as
well as for the interests of the Government, and urgently recommends that the compensation
of the class of postmasters above mentioned be based upon the business of their respective
offices, as ascertained from the sworn returns to the Auditor of stamps canceled.

A few postmasters in the Southern States have expressed great apprehension of their personal
safety on account of their connection with the postal service, and have specially requested
that their reports of apprehended danger should not be made public lest it should result in
the loss of their lives. But no positive testimony of interference has been submitted, except
in the case of a mail messenger at Spartanburg, in South Carolina, who reported that he had
been violently driven away while in charge of the mails on account of his political affiliations.
An assistant superintendent of the Railway Mail Service investigated this case and reported
that the messenger had disappeared from his post, leaving his work to be performed by a substitute.
The Postmaster-General thinks this case is sufficiently suggestive to justify him in recommending
that a more severe punishment should be provided for the offense of assaulting any person in
charge of the mails or of retarding or otherwise obstructing them by threats of personal injury.

"A very gratifying result is presented in the fact that the deficiency of this Department during
the last fiscal year was reduced to $4,081,790.18, as against $6,169,938.88 of the preceding
year. The difference can be traced to the large increase in its ordinary receipts (which greatly
exceed the estimates therefor) and a slight decrease in its expenditures."

The ordinary receipts of the Post-Office Department for the past seven fiscal years have increased
at an average of over 8 per cent per annum, while the increase of expenditures for the same
period has been but about 5.50 per cent per annum, and the decrease of deficiency in the revenues
has been at the rate of nearly 2 per cent per annum.

The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture accompanying this message will be found one of
great interest, marking, as it does, the great progress of the last century in the variety
of products of the soil; increased knowledge and skill in the labor of producing, saving, and
manipulating the same to prepare them for the use of man; in the improvements in machinery
to aid the agriculturist in his labors, and in a knowledge of those scientific subjects necessary
to a thorough system of economy in agricultural production, namely, chemistry, botany, entomology,
etc. A study of this report by those interested in agriculture and deriving their support from
it will find it of value in pointing out those articles which are raised in greater quantity
than the needs of the world require, and must sell, therefore, for less than the cost of production,
and those which command a profit over cost of production because there is not an overproduction.

I call special attention to the need of the Department for a new gallery for the reception
of the exhibits returned from the Centennial Exhibition, including the exhibits donated by
very many foreign nations, and to the recommendations of the Commissioner of Agriculture generally.

The reports of the District Commissioners and the board of health are just received--too late
to read them and to make recommendations thereon--and are herewith submitted.

The international exhibition held in Philadelphia this year, in commemoration of the one hundredth
anniversary of American independence, has proven a great success, and will, no doubt, be of
enduring advantage to the country. It has shown the great progress in the arts, sciences, and
mechanical skill made in a single century, and demonstrated that we are but little behind older
nations in any one branch, while in some we scarcely have a rival. It has served, too, not
only to bring peoples and products of skill and labor from all parts of the world together,
but in bringing together people from all sections of our own country, which must prove a great
benefit in the information imparted and pride of country engendered.

It has been suggested by scientists interested in and connected with the Smithsonian Institution,
in a communication herewith, that the Government exhibit be removed to the capital and a suitable
building be erected or purchased for its accommodation as a permanent exhibit. I earnestly
recommend this; and believing that Congress would second this view, I directed that all Government
exhibits at the Centennial Exhibition should remain where they are, except such as might be
injured by remaining in a building not intended as a protection in inclement weather, or such
as may be wanted by the Department furnishing them, until the question of permanent exhibition
is acted on.

Although the moneys appropriated by Congress to enable the participation of the several Executive
Departments in the International Exhibition of 1876 were not sufficient to carry out the undertaking
to the full extent at first contemplated, it gives me pleasure to refer to the very efficient
and creditable manner in which the board appointed from these several Departments to provide
an exhibition on the part of the Government have discharged their duties with the funds placed
at their command. Without a precedent to guide them in the preparation of such a display, the
success of their labors was amply attested by the sustained attention which the contents of
the Government building attracted during the period of the exhibition from both foreign and
native visitors.

I am strongly impressed with the value of the collection made by the Government for the purposes
of the exhibition, illustrating, as it does, the mineral resources of the country, the statistical
and practical evidences of our growth as a nation, and the uses of the mechanical arts and
the applications of applied science in the administration of the affairs of Government.

Many nations have voluntarily contributed their exhibits to the United States to increase the
interest in any permanent exhibition Congress may provide for. For this act of generosity they
should receive the thanks of the people, and I respectfully suggest that a resolution of Congress
to that effect be adopted.

The attention of Congress can not be too earnestly called to the necessity of throwing some
greater safeguard over the method of choosing and declaring the election of a President. Under
the present system there seems to be no provided remedy for contesting the election in any
one State. The remedy is partially, no doubt, in the enlightenment of electors. The compulsory
support of the free school and the disfranchisement of all who can not read and write the English
language, after a fixed probation, would meet my hearty approval. I would not make this apply,
however, to those already voters, but I would to all becoming so after the expiration of the
probation fixed upon. Foreigners coming to this country to become citizens, who are educated
in their own language, should acquire the requisite knowledge of ours during the necessary
residence to obtain naturalization. If they did not take interest enough in our language to
acquire sufficient knowledge of it to enable them to study the institutions and laws of the
country intelligently, I would not confer upon them the right to make such laws nor to select
those who do.

I append to this message, for convenient reference, a synopsis of administrative events and
of all recommendations to Congress made by me during the last seven years. Time may show some
of these recommendations not to have been wisely conceived, but I believe the larger part will
do no discredit to the Administration. One of these recommendations met with the united opposition
of one political party in the Senate and with a strong opposition from the other, namely, the
treaty for the annexation of Santo Domingo to the United States, to which I will specially
refer, maintaining, as I do, that if my views had been concurred in the country would be in
a more prosperous condition to-day, both politically and financially.

Santo Domingo is fertile, and upon its soil may be grown just those tropical products of which
the United States use so much, and which are produced or prepared for market now by slave labor
almost exclusively, namely, sugar, coffee, dyewoods, mahogany, tropical fruits, tobacco, etc.
About 75 per cent of the exports of Cuba are consumed in the United States. A large percentage
of the exports of Brazil also find the same market. These are paid for almost exclusively in
coin, legislation, particularly in Cuba, being unfavorable to a mutual exchange of the products
of each country. Flour shipped from the Mississippi River to Havana can pass by the very entrance
to the city on its way to a port in Spain, there pay a duty fixed upon articles to be reexported,
transferred to a Spanish vessel and brought back almost to the point of starting, paying a
second duty, and still leave a profit over what would be received by direct shipment. All that
is produced in Cuba could be produced in Santo Domingo. Being a part of the United States,
commerce between the island and mainland would be free. There would be no export duties on
her shipments nor import duties on those coming here. There would be no import duties upon
the supplies, machinery, etc., going from the States. The effect that would have been produced
upon Cuban commerce, with these advantages to a rival, is observable at a glance. The Cuban
question would have been settled long ago in favor of "free Cuba." Hundreds of American vessels
would now be advantageously used in transporting the valuable woods and other products of the
soil of the island to a market and in carrying supplies and emigrants to it. The island is
but sparsely settled, while it has an area sufficient for the profitable employment of several
millions of people. The soil would have soon fallen into the hands of United States capitalists.
The products are so valuable in commerce that emigration there would have been encouraged;
the emancipated race of the South would have found there a congenial home, where their civil
rights would not be disputed and where their labor would be so much sought after that the poorest
among them could have found the means to go. Thus in cases of great oppression and cruelty,
such as has been practiced upon them in many places within the last eleven years, whole communities
would have sought refuge in Santo Domingo. I do not suppose the whole race would have gone,
nor is it desirable that they should go. Their labor is desirable--indispensable almost--where
they now are. But the possession of this territory would have left the negro "master of the
situation," by enabling him to demand his rights at home on pain of finding them elsewhere.

I do not present these views now as a recommendation for a renewal of the subject of annexation,
but I do refer to it to vindicate my previous action in regard to it.

With the present term of Congress my official life terminates. It is not probable that public
affairs will ever again receive attention from me further than as a citizen of the Republic,
always taking a deep interest in the honor, integrity, and prosperity of the whole land.

U. S. GRANT

***

State of the Union Address Rutherford B. Hayes December 3, 1877

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

With devout gratitude to the bountiful Giver of All Good, I congratulate you that at the beginning
of your first regular session you find our country blessed with health and peace and abundant
harvests, and with encouraging prospects of an early return of general prosperity.

To complete and make permanent the pacification of the country continues to be, and until it
is fully accomplished must remain, the most important of all our national interests. The earnest
purpose of good citizens generally to unite their efforts in this endeavor is evident. It found
decided expression in the resolutions announced in 1876 by the national conventions of the
leading political parties of the country. There was a widespread apprehension that the momentous
results in our progress as a nation marked by the recent amendments to the Constitution were
in imminent jeopardy; that the good understanding which prompted their adoption, in the interest
of a loyal devotion to the general welfare, might prove a barren truce, and that the two sections
of the country, once engaged in civil strife, might be again almost as widely severed and disunited
as they were when arrayed in arms against each other.

The course to be pursued, which, in my judgment, seemed wisest in the presence of this emergency,
was plainly indicated in my inaugural address. It pointed to the time, which all our people
desire to see, when a genuine love of our whole country and of all that concerns its true welfare
shall supplant the destructive forces of the mutual animosity of races and of sectional hostility.
Opinions have differed widely as to the measures best calculated to secure this great end.
This was to be expected. The measures adopted by the Administration have been subjected to
severe and varied criticism. Any course whatever which might have been entered upon would certainly
have encountered distrust and opposition. These measures were, in my judgment, such as were
most in harmony with the Constitution and with the genius of our people, and best adapted,
under all the circumstances, to attain the end in view. Beneficent results, already apparent,
prove that these endeavors are not to be regarded as a mere experiment, and should sustain
and encourage us in our efforts. Already, in the brief period which has elapsed, the immediate
effectiveness, no less than the justice, of the course pursued is demonstrated, and I have
an abiding faith that time will furnish its ample vindication in the minds of the great majority
of my fellow-citizens. The discontinuance of the use of the Army for the purpose of upholding
local governments in two States of the Union was no less a constitutional duty and requirement,
under the circumstances existing at the time, than it was a much-needed measure for the restoration
of local self-government and the promotion of national harmony. The withdrawal of the troops
from such employment was effected deliberately, and with solicitous care for the peace and
good order of society and the protection of the property and persons and every right of all
classes of citizens.

The results that have followed are indeed significant and encouraging. All apprehension of
danger from remitting those States to local self-government is dispelled, and a most salutary
change in the minds of the people has begun and is in progress in every part of that section
of the country once the theater of unhappy civil strife, substituting for suspicion, distrust,
and aversion, concord, friendship, and patriotic attachment to the Union. No unprejudiced mind
will deny that the terrible and often fatal collisions which for several years have been of
frequent occurrence and have agitated and alarmed the public mind have almost entirely ceased,
and that a spirit of mutual forbearance and hearty national interest has succeeded. There has
been a general reestablishment of order and of the orderly administration of justice. Instances
of remaining lawlessness have become of rare occurrence; political turmoil and turbulence have
disappeared; useful industries have been resumed; public credit in the Southern States has
been greatly strengthened, and the encouraging benefits of a revival of commerce between the
sections of the country lately embroiled in civil war are fully enjoyed. Such are some of the
results already attained, upon which the country is to be congratulated. They are of such importance
that we may with confidence patiently await the desired consummation that will surely come
with the natural progress of events.

It may not be improper here to say that it should be our fixed and unalterable determination
to protect by all available and proper means under the Constitution and the laws the lately
emancipated race in the enjoyment of their rights and privileges; and I urge upon those to
whom heretofore the colored people have sustained the relation of bondmen the wisdom and justice
of humane and liberal local legislation with respect to their education and general welfare.
A firm adherence to the laws, both national and State, as to the civil and political rights
of the colored people, now advanced to full and equal citizenship; the immediate repression
and sure punishment by the national and local authorities, within their respective jurisdictions,
of every instance of lawlessness and violence toward them, is required for the security alike
of both races, and is justly demanded by the public opinion of the country and the age. In
this way the restoration of harmony and good will and the complete protection of every citizen
in the full enjoyment of every constitutional right will surely be attained. Whatever authority
rests with me to this end I shall not hesitate to put forth.

Whatever belongs to the power of Congress and the jurisdiction of the courts of the Union,
they may confidently be relied upon to provide and perform; and to the legislatures, the courts,
and the executive authorities of the several States I earnestly appeal to secure, by adequate,
appropriate, and seasonable means, Within their borders, these common and uniform rights of
a united people which loves liberty, abhors oppression, and reveres justice. These objects
are very dear to my heart. I shall continue most earnestly to strive for their attainment.
The cordial cooperation of all classes, of all sections of the country and of both races, is
required for this purpose; and with these blessings assured, and not otherwise, we may safely
hope to hand down our free institutions of government unimpaired to the generations that will
succeed us.

Among the other subjects of great and general importance to the people of this country, I can
not be mistaken, I think, in regarding as preeminent the policy and measures which are designed
to secure the restoration of the currency to that normal and healthful condition in which,
by the resumption of specie payments, our internal trade and foreign commerce may be brought
into harmony with the system of exchanges which is based upon the precious metals as the intrinsic
money of the world. In the public judgment that this end should be sought and compassed as
speedily and securely as the resources of the people and the wisdom of their Government can
accomplish, there is a much greater degree of unanimity than is found to concur in the specific
measures which will bring the country to this desired end or the rapidity of the steps by which
it can be safely reached.

Upon a most anxious and deliberate examination, which I have felt it my duty to give to the
subject, I am but the more confirmed in the opinion which I expressed in accepting the nomination
for the Presidency, and again upon my inauguration, that the policy of resumption should be
pursued by every suitable means, and that no legislation would be wise that should disparage
the importance or retard the attainment of that result. I have no disposition, and certainly
no right, to question the sincerity or the intelligence of opposing opinions, and would neither
conceal nor undervalue the considerable difficulties, and even occasional distresses, which
may attend the progress of the nation toward this primary condition to its general and permanent
prosperity. I must, however, adhere to my most earnest conviction that any wavering in purpose
or unsteadiness in methods, so far from avoiding or reducing the inconvenience inseparable
from the transition from an irredeemable to a redeemable paper currency, would only tend to
increased and prolonged disturbance in values, and unless retrieved must end in serious disorder,
dishonor, and disaster in the financial affairs of the Government and of the people.

The mischiefs which I apprehend and urgently deprecate are confined to no class of the people,
indeed, but seem to me most certainly to threaten the industrious masses, whether their occupations
are of skilled or common labor. To them, it seems to me, it is of prime importance that their
labor should be compensated in money which is itself fixed in exchangeable value by being irrevocably
measured by the labor necessary to its production. This permanent quality of the money of the
people is sought for, and can only be gained by the resumption of specie payments. The rich,
the speculative, the operating, the money-dealing classes may not always feel the mischiefs
of, or may find casual profits in, a variable currency, but the misfortunes of such a currency
to those who are paid salaries or wages are inevitable and remediless.

Closely connected with this general subject of the resumption of specie payments is one of
subordinate, but still of grave, importance; I mean the readjustment of our coinage system
by the renewal of the silver dollar as an element in our specie currency, endowed by legislation
with the quality of legal tender to a greater or less extent.

As there is no doubt of the power of Congress under the Constitution "to coin money and regulate
the value thereof," and as this power covers the whole range of authority applicable to the
metal, the rated value and the legal-tender quality which shall be adopted for the coinage,
the considerations which should induce or discourage a particular measure connected with the
coinage, belong clearly to the province of legislative discretion and of public expediency.
Without intruding upon this province of legislation in the least, I have yet thought the subject
of such critical importance, in the actual condition of our affairs, as to present an occasion
for the exercise of the duty imposed by the Constitution on the President of recommending to
the consideration of Congress "such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient."

Holding the opinion, as I do, that neither the interests of the Government nor of the people
of the United States would be promoted by disparaging silver as one of the two precious metals
which furnish the coinage of the world, and that legislation which looks to maintaining the
volume of intrinsic money to as full a measure of both metals as their relative commercial
values will permit would be neither unjust nor inexpedient, I must ask your indulgence to a
brief and definite statement of certain essential features in any such legislative measure
which I feel it my duty to recommend.

I do not propose to enter the debate, represented on both sides by such able disputants in
Congress and before the people and in the press, as to the extent to which the legislation
of any one nation can control this question, even within its own borders, against the unwritten
laws of trade or the positive laws of other governments. The wisdom of Congress in shaping
any particular law that may be presented for my approval may wholly supersede the necessity
of my entering into these considerations, and I willingly avoid either vague or intricate inquiries.
It is only certain plain and practical traits of such legislation that I desire to recommend
to your attention.

In any legislation providing for a silver coinage, regulating its value, and imparting to it
the quality of legal tender, it seems to me of great importance that Congress should not lose
sight of its action as operating in a twofold capacity and in two distinct directions. If the
United States Government were free from a public debt, its legislative dealing with the question
of silver coinage would be purely sovereign and governmental, under no restraints but those
of constitutional power and the public good as affected by the proposed legislation. But in
the actual circumstances of the nation, with a vast public debt distributed very widely among
our own citizens and held in great amounts also abroad, the nature of the silver-coinage measure,
as affecting this relation of the Government to the holders of the public debt, becomes an
element, in any proposed legislation, of the highest concern. The obligation of the public
faith transcends all questions of profit or public advantage otherwise. Its unquestionable
maintenance is the dictate as well of the highest expediency as of the most necessary duty,
and will ever be carefully guarded by Congress and people alike.

The public debt of the United States to the amount of $729,000,000 bears interest at the rate
of 6 per cent, and $708,000,000 at the rate of 5 per cent, and the only way in which the country
can be relieved from the payment of these high rates of interest is by advantageously refunding
the indebtedness. Whether the debt is ultimately paid in gold or in silver coin is of but little
moment compared with the possible reduction of interest one-third by refunding it at such reduced
rate. If the United States had the unquestioned right to pay its bonds in silver coin, the
little benefit from that process would be greatly overbalanced by the injurious effect of such
payment if made or proposed against the honest convictions of the public creditors.

All the bonds that have been issued since February 12, 1873, when gold became the only unlimited
legal-tender metallic currency of the country, are justly payable in gold coin or in coin of
equal value. During the time of these issues the only dollar that could be or was received
by the Government in exchange for bonds was the gold dollar. To require the public creditors
to take in repayment any dollar of less commercial value would be regarded by them as a repudiation
of the full obligation assumed. The bonds issued prior to 1873 were issued at a time when the
gold dollar was the only coin in circulation or contemplated by either the Government or the
holders of the bonds as the coin in which they were to be paid. It is far better to pay these
bonds in that coin than to seem to take advantage of the unforeseen fall in silver bullion
to pay in a new issue of silver coin thus made so much less valuable. The power of the United
States to coin money and to regulate the value thereof ought never to be exercised for the
purpose of enabling the Government to pay its obligations in a coin of less value than that
contemplated by the parties when the bonds were issued. Any attempt to pay the national indebtedness
in a coinage of less commercial value than the money of the world would involve a violation
of the public faith and work irreparable injury to the public credit.

It was the great merit of the act of March, 1869, in strengthening the public credit, that
it removed all doubt as to the purpose of the United States to pay their bonded debt in coin.
That act was accepted as a pledge of public faith. The Government has derived great benefit
from it in the progress thus far made in refunding the public debt at low rates of interest.
An adherence to the wise and just policy of an exact observance of the public faith will enable
the Government rapidly to reduce the burden of interest on the national debt to an amount exceeding
$20,000,000 per annum, and effect an aggregate saving to the United States of more than $300,000,000
before the bonds can be fully paid.

In adapting the new silver coinage to the ordinary uses of currency in the everyday transactions
of life and prescribing the quality of legal tender to be assigned to it, a consideration of
the first importance should be so to adjust the ratio between the silver and the gold coinage,
which now constitutes our specie currency, as to accomplish the desired end of maintaining
the circulation of the two metallic currencies and keeping up the volume of the two precious
metals as our intrinsic money. It is a mixed question, for scientific reasoning and historical
experience to determine, how far and by what methods a practical equilibrium can be maintained
which will keep both metals in circulation in their appropriate spheres of common use.

An absolute equality of commercial value, free from disturbing fluctuations, is hardly attainable,
and without it an unlimited legal tender for private transactions assigned to both metals would
irresistibly tend to drive out of circulation the clearer coinage and disappoint the principal
object proposed by the legislation in view. I apprehend, therefore, that the two conditions
of a near approach to equality of commercial value between the gold and silver coinage of the
same denomination and of a limitation of the amounts for which the silver coinage is to be
a legal tender are essential to maintaining both in circulation. If these conditions can be
successfully observed, the issue from the mint of silver dollars would afford material assistance
to the community in the transition to redeemable paper money, and would facilitate the resumption
of specie payment and its permanent establishment. Without these conditions I fear that only
mischief and misfortune would flow from a coinage of silver dollars with the quality of unlimited
legal tender, even in private transactions.

Any expectation of temporary ease from an issue of silver coinage to pass as a legal tender
at a rate materially above its commercial value is, I am persuaded, a delusion. Nor can I think
that there is any substantial distinction between an original issue of silver dollars at a
nominal value materially above their commercial value and the restoration of the silver dollar
at a rate which once was, but has ceased to be, its commercial value. Certainly the issue of
our gold coinage, reduced in weight materially below its legal-tender value, would not be any
the less a present debasement of the coinage by reason of its equaling, or even exceeding,
in weight a gold coinage which at some past time had been commercially equal to the legal-tender
value assigned to the new issue.

In recommending that the regulation of any silver coinage which may be authorized by Congress
should observe these conditions of commercial value and limited legal tender, I am governed
by the feeling that every possible increase should be given to the volume of metallic money
which can be kept in circulation, and thereby every possible aid afforded to the people in
the process of resuming specie payments. It is because of my firm conviction that a disregard
of these conditions would frustrate the good results which are desired from the proposed coinage,
and embarrass with new elements of confusion and uncertainty the business of the country, that
I urge upon your attention these considerations.

I respectfully recommend to Congress that in any legislation providing for a silver coinage
and imparting to it the quality of legal tender there be impressed upon the measure a firm
provision exempting the public debt heretofore issued and now outstanding from payment, either
of principal or interest, in any coinage of less commercial value than the present gold coinage
of the country.

The organization of the civil service of the country has for a number of years attracted more
and more of the public attention. So general has become the opinion that the methods of admission
to it and the conditions of remaining in it are unsound that both the great political parties
have agreed in the most explicit declarations of the necessity of reform and in the most emphatic
demands for it. I have fully believed these declarations and demands to be the expression of
a sincere conviction of the intelligent masses of the people upon the subject, and that they
should be recognized and followed by earnest and prompt action on the part of the legislative
and executive departments of the Government, in pursuance of the purpose indicated.

Before my accession to office I endeavored to have my own views distinctly understood, and
upon my inauguration my accord with the public opinion was stated in terms believed to be plain
and unambiguous. My experience in the executive duties has strongly confirmed the belief in
the great advantage the country would find in observing strictly the plan of the Constitution,
which imposes upon the Executive the sole duty and responsibility of the selection of those
Federal officers who by law are appointed, not elected, and which in like manner assigns to
the Senate the complete right to advise and consent to or to reject the nominations so made,
whilst the House of Representatives stands as the public censor of the performance of official
duties, with the prerogative of investigation and prosecution in all cases of dereliction.
The blemishes and imperfections in the civil service may, as I think, be traced in most cases
to a practical confusion of the duties assigned to the several Departments of the Government.
My purpose in this respect has been to return to the system established by the fundamental
law, and to do this with the heartiest cooperation and most cordial understanding with the
Senate and House of Representatives.

The practical difficulties in the selection of numerous officers for posts of widely varying
responsibilities and duties are acknowledged to be very great. No system can be expected to
secure absolute freedom from mistakes, and the beginning of any attempted change of custom
is quite likely to be more embarrassed in this respect than any subsequent period. It is here
that the Constitution seems to me to prove its claim to the great wisdom accorded to it. It
gives to the Executive the assistance of the knowledge and experience of the Senate, which,
when acting upon nominations as to which they may be disinterested and impartial judges, secures
as strong a guaranty of freedom from errors of importance as is perhaps possible in human affairs.

In addition to this, I recognize the public advantage of making all nominations, as nearly
as possible, impersonal, in the sense of being free from mere caprice or favor in the selection;
and in those offices in which special training is of greatly increased value I believe such
a rule as to the tenure of office should obtain as may induce men of proper qualifications
to apply themselves industriously to the task of becoming proficients. Bearing these things
in mind, I have endeavored to reduce the number of changes in subordinate places usually made
upon the change of the general administration, and shall most heartily cooperate with Congress
in the better systematizing of such methods and rules of admission to the public service and
of promotion within it as, may promise to be most successful in making thorough competency,
efficiency, and character the decisive tests in these matters.

I ask the renewed attention of Congress to what has already been done by the Civil Service
Commission, appointed, in pursuance of an act of Congress, by my predecessor, to prepare and
revise civil-service rules. In regard to much of the departmental service, especially at Washington,
it may be difficult to organize a better system than that which has thus been provided, and
it is now being used to a considerable extent under my direction. The Commission has still
a legal existence, although for several years no appropriation has been made for defraying
its expenses. Believing that this Commission has rendered valuable service and will be a most
useful agency in improving the administration of the civil service, I respectfully recommend
that a suitable appropriation, to be immediately available, be made to enable it to continue
its labors.

It is my purpose to transmit to Congress as early as practicable a report by the chairman of
the Commission, and to ask your attention to such measures on this subject as in my opinion
will further promote the improvement of the civil service.

During the past year the United States have continued to maintain peaceful relations with foreign
powers.

The outbreak of war between Russia and Turkey, though at one time attended by grave apprehension
as to its effect upon other European nations, has had no tendency to disturb the amicable relations
existing between the United States and each of the two contending powers. An attitude of just
and impartial neutrality has been preserved, and I am gratified to state that in the midst
of their hostilities both the Russian and the Turkish Governments have shown an earnest disposition
to adhere to the obligations of all treaties with the United States and to give due regard
to the rights of American citizens.

By the terms of the treaty defining the rights, immunities, and privileges of consuls, between
Italy and the United States, ratified in 1868, either Government may, after the lapse of ten
years, terminate the existence of the treaty by giving twelve months' notice of its intention.
The Government of Italy, availing itself of this faculty, has now given the required notice,
and the treaty will accordingly end on the 17th of September, 1878. It is understood, however,
that the Italian Government wishes to renew it in its general scope, desiring only certain
modifications in some of its articles. In this disposition I concur, and shall hope that no
serious obstacles may intervene to prevent or delay the negotiation of a satisfactory treaty.

Numerous questions in regard to passports, naturalization, and exemption from military service
have continued to arise in cases of emigrants from Germany who have returned to their native
country. The provisions of the treaty of February 22, 1868, however, have proved to be so ample
and so judicious that the legation of the United States at Berlin has been able to adjust all
claims arising under it, not only without detriment to the amicable relations existing between
the two Governments, but, it is believed, without injury or injustice to any duly naturalized
American citizen. It is desirable that the treaty originally made with the North German Union
in 1868 should now be extended so as to apply equally to all the States of the Empire of Germany.

The invitation of the Government of France to participate in the Exposition of the Products
of Agriculture, Industry, and the Fine Arts to be held at Paris during the coming year was
submitted for your consideration at the extra session. It is not doubted that its acceptance
by the United States, and a well-selected exhibition of the products of American industry on
that occasion, will tend to stimulate international commerce and emigration, as well as to
promote the traditional friendship between the two countries.

A question arose some time since as to the proper meaning of the extradition articles of the
treaty of 1842 between the United States and Great Britain. Both Governments, however, are
now in accord in the belief that the question is not one that should be allowed to frustrate
the ends of justice or to disturb the friendship between the two nations. No serious difficulty
has arisen in accomplishing the extradition of criminals when necessary. It is probable that
all points of disagreement will in due time be settled, and, if need be, more explicit declarations
be made in a new treaty.

The Fishery Commission under Articles XVIII to XXV of the treaty of Washington has concluded
its session at Halifax. The result of the deliberations of the commission, as made public by
the commissioners, will be communicated to Congress.

A treaty for the protection of trade-marks has been negotiated with Great Britain, which has
been submitted to the Senate for its consideration.

The revolution which recently occurred in Mexico was followed by the accession of the successful
party to power and the installation of its chief, General Porfirio Diaz, in the Presidential
office. It has been the custom of the United States, when such changes of government have heretofore
occurred in Mexico, to recognize and enter into official relations with the de facto government
as soon as it should appear to have the approval of the Mexican people and should manifest
a disposition to adhere to the obligations of treaties and international friendship. In the
present case such official recognition has been deferred by the occurrences on the Rio Grande
border, the records of which have been already communicated to each House of Congress in answer
to their respective resolutions of inquiry. Assurances have been received that the authorities
at the seat of the Mexican Government have both the disposition and the power to prevent and
punish such unlawful invasions and depredations. It is earnestly to be hoped that events may
prove these assurances to be well rounded. The best interests of both countries require the
maintenance of peace upon the border and the development of commerce between the two Republics.

It is gratifying to add that this temporary interruption of official relations has not prevented
due attention by the representatives of the United States in Mexico to the protection of American
citizens, so far as practicable; nor has it interfered with the prompt payment of the amounts
due from Mexico to the United States under the treaty of July 4, 1868, and the awards of the
joint commission. While I do not anticipate an interruption of friendly relations with Mexico,
yet I can not but look with some solicitude upon a continuance of border disorders as exposing
the two countries to initiations of popular feeling and mischances of action which are naturally
unfavorable to complete amity. Firmly determined that nothing shall be wanting on my part to
promote a good understanding between the two nations, I yet must ask the attention of Congress
to the actual occurrences on the border, that the lives and property of our citizens may be
adequately protected and peace preserved.

Another year has passed without bringing to a close the protracted contest between the Spanish
Government and the insurrection in the island of Cuba. While the United States have sedulously
abstained from any intervention in this contest, it is impossible not to feel that it is attended
with incidents affecting the rights and interests of American citizens. Apart from the effect
of the hostilities upon trade between the United States and Cuba, their progress is inevitably
accompanied by complaints, having more or less foundation, of searches, arrests, embargoes,
and oppressive taxes upon the property of American residents, and of unprovoked interference
with American vessels and commerce. It is due to the Government of Spain to say that during
the past year it has promptly disavowed and offered reparation for any unauthorized acts of
unduly zealous subordinates whenever such acts have been brought to its attention. Nevertheless,
such occurrences can not but tend to excite feelings of annoyance, suspicion, and resentment,
which are greatly to be deprecated, between the respective subjects and citizens of two friendly
powers.

Much delay (consequent upon accusations of fraud in some of the awards) has occurred in respect
to the distribution of the limited amounts received from Venezuela under the treaty of April
25, 1866, applicable to the awards of the joint commission created by that treaty. So long
as these matters are pending in Congress the Executive can not assume either to pass upon the
questions presented or to distribute the fund received. It is eminently desirable that definite
legislative action should be taken, either affirming the awards to be final or providing some
method for reexamination of the claims. Our relations with the Republics of Central and South
America and with the Empire of Brazil have continued without serious change, further than the
temporary interruption of diplomatic intercourse with Venezuela and with Guatemala. Amicable
relations have already been fully restored with Venezuela, and it is not doubted that all grounds
of misunderstanding with Guatemala will speedily be removed. From all these countries there
are favorable indications of a disposition on the part of their Governments and people to reciprocate
our efforts in the direction of increased commercial intercourse.

The Government of the Samoan Islands has sent an envoy, in the person of its secretary of state,
to invite the Government of the United States to recognize and protect their independence,
to establish commercial relations with their people, and to assist them in their steps toward
regulated and responsible government. The inhabitants of these islands, having made considerable
progress in Christian civilization and the development of trade, are doubtful of their ability
to maintain peace and independence without the aid of some stronger power. The subject is deemed
worthy of respectful attention, and the claims upon our assistance by this distant community
will be carefully considered.

The long commercial depression in the United States has directed attention to the subject of
the possible increase of our foreign trade and the methods for its development, not only with
Europe, but with other countries, and especially with the States and sovereignties of the Western
Hemisphere. Instructions from the Department of State were issued to the various diplomatic
and consular officers of the Government, asking them to devote attention to the question of
methods by which trade between the respective countries of their official residence and the
United States could be most judiciously fostered. In obedience to these instructions, examinations
and reports upon this subject have been made by many of these officers and transmitted to the
Department, and the same are submitted to the consideration of Congress.

The annual report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the state of the finances presents important
questions for the action of Congress, upon some of which I have already remarked.

The revenues of the Government during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1877, were $269,000,586.62;
the total expenditures for the same period were $238,660,008.93, leaving a surplus revenue
of $30,340,577.69. This has substantially supplied the requirements of the sinking fund for
that year. The estimated revenues of the current fiscal year are $265,500,000, and the estimated
expenditures for the same period are $232,430,643.72. If these estimates prove to be correct,
there will be a surplus revenue of $33,069,356.28--an amount nearly sufficient for the sinking
fund for that year. The estimated revenues for the next fiscal year are $269,250,000. It appears
from the report that during the last fiscal year the revenues of the Government, compared with
the previous year, have largely decreased. This decrease, amounting to the sum of $18,481,452.54,
was mainly in customs duties, caused partly by a large falling off of the amount of imported
dutiable goods and partly by the general fall of prices in the markets of production of such
articles as pay ad valorem taxes.

While this is felt injuriously in the diminution of the revenue, it has been accompanied with
a very large increase of exportations. The total exports during the last fiscal year, including
coin, have been $658,637,457, and the imports have been $492,097,540, leaving a balance of
trade in favor of the United States amounting to the sum of $166,539,917, the beneficial effects
of which extend to all branches of business.

The estimated revenue for the next fiscal year will impose upon Congress the duty of strictly
limiting appropriations, including the requisite sum for the maintenance of the sinking fund,
within the aggregate estimated receipts.

While the aggregate of taxes should not be increased, amendments might be made to the revenue
laws that would, without diminishing the revenue, relieve the people from unnecessary burdens.
A tax on tea and coffee is shown by the experience not only of our own country, but of other
countries, to be easily collected, without loss by undervaluation or fraud, and largely borne
in the country of production. A tax of 10 cents a pound on tea and 2 cents a pound on coffee
would produce a revenue exceeding $12,000,000, and thus enable Congress to repeal a multitude
of annoying taxes yielding a revenue not exceeding that sum. The internal-revenue system grew
out of the necessities of the war, and most of the legislation imposing taxes upon domestic
products under this system has been repealed. By the substitution of a tax on tea and coffee
all forms of internal taxation may be repealed, except that on whisky, spirits, tobacco, and
beer. Attention is also called to the necessity of enacting more vigorous laws for the protection
of the revenue and for the punishment of frauds and smuggling. This can best be done by judicious
provisions that will induce the disclosure of attempted fraud by undervaluation and smuggling.
All revenue laws should be simple in their provisions and easily understood. So far as practicable,
the rates of taxation should be in the form of specific duties, and not ad valorem, requiring
the judgment of experienced men to ascertain values and exposing the revenue to the temptation
of fraud.

My attention has been called during the recess of Congress to abuses existing in the collection
of the customs, and strenuous efforts have been made for their correction by Executive orders.
The recommendations submitted to the Secretary of the Treasury by a commission appointed to
examine into the collection of customs duties at the port of New York contain many suggestions
for the modification of the customs laws, to which the attention of Congress is invited.

It is matter of congratulation that notwithstanding the severe burdens caused by the war the
public faith with all creditors has been preserved, and that as the result of this policy the
public credit has continuously advanced and our public securities are regarded with the highest
favor in the markets of the world. I trust that no act of the Government will cast a shadow
upon its credit.

The progress of refunding the public debt has been rapid and satisfactory. Under the contract
existing when I entered upon the discharge of the duties of my office, bonds bearing interest
at the rate of 4 1/2 per cent were being rapidly sold, and within three months the aggregate
sales of these bonds had reached the sum of $200,000,000. With my sanction the Secretary of
the Treasury entered into a new contract for the sale of 4 per cent bonds, and within thirty
days after the popular subscription for such bonds was opened subscriptions were had amounting
to $75,496,550, which were paid for within ninety days after the date of subscription. By this
process, within but little more than one year, the annual interest on the public debt was reduced
in the sum of $3,775,000.

I recommended that suitable provision be made to enable the people to easily convert their
savings into Government securities, as the best mode in which small savings may be well secured
and yield a moderate interest. It is an object of public policy to retain among our own people
the securities of the United States. In this way our country is guarded against their sudden
return from foreign countries, caused by war or other disturbances beyond our limits.

The commerce of the United States with foreign nations, and especially the export of domestic
productions, has of late years largely increased; but the greater portion of this trade is
conducted in foreign vessels. The importance of enlarging our foreign trade, and especially
by direct and speedy interchange with countries on this continent, can not be overestimated;
and it is a matter of great moment that our own shipping interest should receive, to the utmost
practical extent, the benefit of our commerce with other lands. These considerations are forcibly
urged by all the large commercial cities of the country, and public attention is generally
and wisely attracted to the solution of the problems they present. It is not doubted that Congress
will take them up in the broadest spirit of liberality and respond to the public demand by
practical legislation upon this important subject. A long and arduous campaign has been prosecuted,
with final complete success, against a portion of the Nez Perce tribe of Indians. A full account
of this campaign will be found in the report of the General of the Army. It will be seen that
in its course several severe battles were fought, in which a number of gallant officers and
men lost their lives. I join with the Secretary of War and the General of the Army in awarding
to the officers and men employed in the long and toilsome pursuit and in the final capture
of these Indians the honor and praise which are so justly their due.

The very serious riots which occurred in several of the States in July last rendered necessary
the employment of a considerable portion of the Army to preserve the peace and maintain order.
In the States of West Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Illinois these disturbances were
so formidable as to defy the local and State authorities, and the National Executive was called
upon, in the mode provided by the Constitution and laws, to furnish military aid. I am gratified
to be able to state that the troops sent in response to these calls for aid in the suppression
of domestic violence were able, by the influence of their presence in the disturbed regions,
to preserve the peace and restore order without the use of force. In the discharge of this
delicate and important duty both officers and men acted with great prudence and courage, and
for their services deserve the thanks of the country.

Disturbances along the Rio Grande in Texas, to which I have already referred, have rendered
necessary the constant employment of a military force in that vicinity. A full report of all
recent military operations in that quarter has been transmitted to the House of Representatives
in answer to a resolution of that body, and it will therefore not be necessary to enter into
details. I regret to say that these lawless incursions into our territory by armed bands from
the Mexican side of the line, for the purpose of robbery, have been of frequent occurrence,
and in spite of the most vigilant efforts of the commander of our forces the marauders have
generally succeeded in escaping into Mexico with their plunder. In May last I gave orders for
the exercise of the utmost vigilance on the part of our troops for the suppression of these
raids and the punishment of the guilty parties, as well as the recapture of property stolen
by them. General Ord, commanding in Texas, was directed to invite the cooperation of the Mexican
authorities in efforts to this end, and to assure them that I was anxious to avoid giving the
least offense to Mexico. At the same time, he was directed to give notice of my determination
to put an end to the invasion of our territory by lawless bands intent upon the plunder of
our peaceful citizens, even if the effectual punishment of the outlaws should make the crossing
of the border by our troops in their pursuit necessary. It is believed that this policy has
had the effect to check somewhat these depredations, and that with a considerable increase
of our force upon that frontier and the establishment of several additional military posts
along the Rio Grande, so as more effectually to guard that extensive border, peace may be preserved
and the lives and property of our citizens in Texas fully protected.

Prior to the 1st day of July last the Army was, in accordance with law, reduced to the maximum
of 25,000 enlisted men, being a reduction of 2,500 below the force previously authorized. This
reduction was made, as required by law, entirely from the infantry and artillery branches of
the service, without any reduction of the cavalry. Under the law as it now stands it is necessary
that the cavalry regiments be recruited to 100 men in each company for service on the Mexican
and Indian frontiers. The necessary effect of this legislation is to reduce the infantry and
artillery arms of the service below the number required for efficiency, and I concur with the
Secretary of War in recommending that authority be given to recruit all companies of infantry
to at least 50 men and all batteries of artillery to at least 75 men, with the power, in case
of emergency, to increase the former to 100 and the latter to 122 men each.

I invite your special attention to the following recommendations of the Secretary of War:

First. That provision be made for supplying to the Army a more abundant and better supply of
reading matter.

Second. That early action be taken by Congress looking to a complete revision and republication
of the Army Regulations.

Third. That section 1258 of the Revised Statutes, limiting the number of officers on the retired
list, be repealed.

Fourth.

Fifth. That Congress provide for an annuity fund for the families of deceased soldiers, as
recommended by the paymaster-General of the Army.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows that we have six squadrons now engaged in the
protection of our foreign commerce and other duties pertaining to the naval service. The condition
and operations of the Department are also shown. The total expenditures for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1877, were $16,077,974.54. There are unpaid claims against the Department chargeable
to the last year, which are presented to the consideration of Congress by the report of the
Secretary. The estimates for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 1878, are $16,233,234.40, exclusive
of the sum of $2,314,231 submitted for new buildings, repairs, and improvements at the several
navy-yards. The appropriations for the present fiscal year, commencing July 1, 1877, are $13,592,932.90.
The amount drawn from the Treasury from July 1 to November 1, 1877, is $5,343,037.40, of which
there is estimated to be yet available $1,029,528.30, showing the amount of actual expenditure
during the first four months of the present fiscal year to have been $4,313,509.10.

The report of the Postmaster-General contains a full and clear statement of the operations
and condition of the Post-Office Department. The ordinary revenues of the Department for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1877, including receipts from the money-order business and from
official stamps and stamped envelopes, amounted to the sum of $27,531,585.26. The additional
sum of $7,013,000 was realized from appropriations from the general Treasury for various purposes,
making the receipts from all sources $34,544,885.26. The total expenditures during the fiscal
year amounted to $33,486,322.44, leaving an excess of total receipts over total expenditures
of $1,058,562.82, and an excess of total expenditures over ordinary receipts of $5,954,737.18.
Deducting from the total receipts the sum of $63,261.84, received from international money
orders of the preceding fiscal year, and deducting from the total expenditures the sum of $1,163,818.20,
paid on liabilities incurred in previous fiscal years, the expenditures and receipts appertaining
to the business of the last fiscal year were as follows:

Expenditures - $32,322,504.24

Receipts (ordinary, from money-order business and from official postage stamps) - 27,468,323,420 -

***

State of the Union Address Rutherford B. Hayes December 2, 1878

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

Our heartfelt gratitude is due to the Divine Being who holds in His hands the destinies of
nations for the continued bestowal during the last year of countless blessings upon our country.

We are at peace with all other nations. Our public credit has greatly improved, and is perhaps
now stronger than ever before. Abundant harvests have rewarded the labors of those who till
the soil, our manufacturing industries are reviving, and it is believed that general prosperity,
which has been so long anxiously looked for, is at last within our reach.

The enjoyment of health by our people generally has, however, been interrupted during the past
season by the prevalence of a fatal pestilence (the yellow fever) in some portions of the Southern
States, creating an emergency which called for prompt and extraordinary measures of relief.
The disease appeared as an epidemic at New Orleans and at other places on the Lower Mississippi
soon after midsummer. It was rapidly spread by fugitives from the infected cities and towns,
and did not disappear until early in November. The States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee
have suffered severely. About 100,000 cases are believed to have occurred, of which about 20,000,
according to intelligent estimates, proved fatal. It is impossible to estimate with any approach
to accuracy the loss to the country occasioned by this epidemic It is to be reckoned by the
hundred millions of dollars. The suffering and destitution that resulted excited the deepest
sympathy in all parts of the Union. Physicians and nurses hastened from every quarter to the
assistance of the afflicted communities. Voluntary contributions of money and supplies, in
every needed form, were speedily and generously furnished. The Government was able to respond
in some measure to the call for help, by providing tents, medicines, and food for the sick
and destitute, the requisite directions for the purpose being given in the confident expectation
that this action of the Executive would receive the sanction of Congress. About 1,800 tents,
and rations of the value of about $25,000, were sent to cities and-towns which applied for
them, full details of which will be furnished to Congress by the proper Department.

The fearful spread of this pestilence has awakened a very general public sentiment in favor
of national sanitary administration, which shall not only control quarantine, but have the
sanitary supervision of internal commerce in times of epidemics, and hold an advisory relation
to the State and municipal health authorities, with power to deal with whatever endangers the
public health, and which the municipal and State authorities are unable to regulate. The national
quarantine act approved April 29, 1878, which was passed too late in the last session of Congress
to provide the means for carrying it into practical operation during the past season, is a
step in the direction here indicated. In view of the necessity for the most effective measures,
by quarantine and otherwise, for the protection of our seaports and the country generally from
this and other epidemics, it is recommended that Congress give to the whole subject early and
careful consideration.

The permanent pacification of the country by the complete protection of all citizens in every
civil and political right continues to be of paramount interest with the great body of our
people. Every step in this direction is welcomed with public approval, and every interruption
of steady and uniform progress to the desired consummation awakens general uneasiness and widespread
condemnation. The recent Congressional elections have furnished a direct and trustworthy test
of the advance thus far made in the practical establishment of the right of suffrage secured
by the Constitution to the liberated race in the Southern States. All disturbing influences,
real or imaginary, had been removed from all of these States.

The three constitutional amendments which conferred freedom and equality of civil and political
rights upon the colored people of the South were adopted by the concurrent action of the great
body of good citizens who maintained the authority of the National Government and the integrity
and perpetuity of the Union at such a cost of treasure and life, as a wise and necessary embodiment
in the organic law of the just results of the war. The people of the former slaveholding States
accepted these results, and gave in every practicable form assurances that the thirteenth,
fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments, and laws passed in pursuance thereof, should in good
faith be enforced, rigidly and impartially, in letter and spirit, to the end that the humblest
citizen, without distinction of race or color, should under them receive full and equal protection
in person and property and in political rights and privileges. By these constitutional amendments
the southern section of the Union obtained a large increase of political power in Congress
and in the electoral college, and the country justly expected that elections would proceed,
as to the enfranchised race, upon the same circumstances of legal and constitutional freedom
and protection which obtained in all the other States of the Union. The friends of law and
order looked forward to the conduct of these elections as offering to the general judgment
of the country an important opportunity to measure the degree in which the right of suffrage
could be exercised by the colored people and would be respected by their fellow-citizens; but
a more general enjoyment of freedom of suffrage by the colored people and a more just and generous
protection of that freedom by the communities of which they form a part were generally anticipated
than the record of the elections discloses. In some of those States in which the colored people
have been unable to make their opinions felt in the elections the result is mainly due to influences
not easily measured or remedied by legal protection; but in the States of Louisiana and South
Carolina at large, and in some particular Congressional districts outside of those States,
the records of the elections seem to compel the conclusion that the rights of the colored voters
have been overridden and their participation in the elections not permitted to be either general
or free.

It will be for the Congress for which these elections were held to make such examinations into
their conduct as may be appropriate to determine the validity of the claims of members to their
seats. In the meanwhile it becomes the duty of the executive and judicial departments of the
Government, each in its province, to inquire into and punish violations of the laws of the
United States which have occurred. I can but repeat what I said in this connection in my last
message, that whatever authority rests with me to this end I shall not hesitate to put forth;
and I am unwilling to forego a renewed appeal to the legislatures, the courts, the executive
authorities, and the people of the States where these wrongs have been perpetrated to give
their assistance toward bringing to justice the offenders and preventing a repetition of the
crimes. No means within my power will be spared to obtain a full and fair investigation of
the alleged crimes and to secure the conviction and just punishment of the guilty.

It is to be observed that the principal appropriation made for the Department of Justice at
the last session contained the following clause: And for defraying the expenses which may be
incurred in the enforcement of the act approved February 28, 1871, entitled "An act to amend
an act approved May 31, 1870, entitled 'An act to enforce the rights of citizens of the United
States to vote in the several States of this Union, and for other purposes,'" or any acts amendatory
thereof or supplementary thereto. It is the opinion of the Attorney-General that the expenses
of these proceedings will largely exceed the amount which was thus provided, and I rely confidently
upon Congress to make adequate appropriations to enable the executive department to enforce
the laws.

I respectfully urge upon your attention that the Congressional elections, in every district,
in a very important sense, are justly a matter of political interest and concern throughout
the whole country. Each State, every political party, is entitled to the share of power which
is conferred by the legal and constitutional suffrage. It is the right of every citizen possessing
the qualifications prescribed by law to east one unintimidated ballot and to have his ballot
honestly counted. So long as the exercise of this power and the enjoyment of this right are
common and equal, practically as well as formally, submission to the results of the suffrage
will be accorded loyally and cheerfully, and all the departments of Government will feel the
true vigor of the popular will thus expressed. No temporary or administrative interests of
Government, however urgent or weighty, will ever displace the zeal of our people in defense
of the primary rights of citizenship. They understand that the protection of liberty requires
the maintenance in full vigor of the manly methods of free speech, free press, and free suffrage,
and will sustain the full authority of Government to enforce the laws which are framed to preserve
these inestimable rights. The material progress and welfare of the States depend on the protection
afforded to their citizens. There can be no peace without such protection, no prosperity without
peace, and the whole country is deeply interested in the growth and prosperity of all its parts.

While the country has not yet reached complete unity of feeling and reciprocal confidence between
the communities so lately and so seriously estranged, I feel an absolute assurance that the
tendencies are in that direction, and with increasing force. The power of public opinion will
override all political prejudices and all sectional or State attachments in demanding that
all over our wide territory the name and character of citizen of the United States shall mean
one and the same thing and carry with them unchallenged security and respect.

Our relations with other countries continue peaceful. Our neutrality in contests between foreign
powers has been maintained and respected.

The Universal Exposition held at Paris during the past summer has been attended by large numbers
of our citizens. The brief period allowed for the preparation and arrangement of the contributions
of our citizens to this great exposition was well employed in energetic and judicious efforts
to overcome this disadvantage. These efforts, led and directed by the commissioner-general,
were remarkably successful, and the exhibition of the products of American industry was creditable
and gratifying in scope and character. The reports of the United States commissioners, giving
its results in detail, will be duly laid before you. Our participation in this international
competition for the favor and the trade of the world may be expected to produce useful and
important results--in promoting intercourse, friendship, and commerce with other nations.

In accordance with the provisions of the act of February 28, 1878, three commissioners were
appointed to an international conference on the subject of adopting a common ratio between
gold and silver, for the purpose of establishing internationally the use of bimetallic money
and securing fixity of relative value between those metals.

Invitations were addressed to the various governments which had expressed a willingness to
participate in its deliberations. The conference held its meetings in Paris in August last.
The report of the commissioners, herewith submitted, will show its results. No common ratio
between gold and silver could be agreed upon by the conference. The general conclusion was
reached that it is necessary to maintain in the world the monetary functions of silver as well
as of gold, leaving the selection of the use of one or the other of these two metals, or of
both, to be made by each state.

Congress having appropriated at its last session the sum of $5,500,000 to pay the award of
the joint commission at Halifax, if, after correspondence with the British Government on the
subject of the conformity of the award to the requirements of the treaty and to the terms of
the question thereby submitted to the commission, the President shall deem it his duty to make
the payment, communications upon these points were addressed to the British Government through
the legation of the United States at London. Failing to obtain the concurrence of the British
Government in the views of this Government respecting the award, I have deemed it my duty to
tender the sum named within the year fixed by the treaty, accompanied by a notice of the grounds
of the payment and a protest against any other construction of the same. The correspondence
upon this subject will be laid before you.

The Spanish Government has officially announced the termination of the insurrection in Cuba
and the restoration of peace throughout that island. Confident expectations are expressed of
a revival of trade and prosperity, which it is earnestly hoped may prove well rounded. Numerous
claims of American citizens for relief for injuries or restoration of property have been among
the incidents of the long-continued hostilities. Some of these claims are in process of adjustment
by Spain, and the others are promised early and careful consideration.

The treaty made with Italy in regard to reciprocal consular privileges has been duly ratified
and proclaimed.

No questions of grave importance have arisen with any other of the European powers.

The Japanese Government has been desirous of a revision of such parts of its treaties with
foreign powers as relate to commerce, and it is understood has addressed to each of the treaty
powers a request to open negotiations with that view. The United States Government has been
inclined to regard the matter favorably. Whatever restrictions upon trade with Japan are found
injurious to that people can not but affect injuriously nations holding commercial intercourse
with them. Japan, after a long period of seclusion, has within the past few years made rapid
strides in the path of enlightenment and progress, and, not unreasonably, is looking forward
to the time when her relations with the nations of Europe and America shall be assimilated
to those which they hold with each other. A treaty looking to this end has been made, which
will be submitted for the consideration of the Senate.

After an interval of several years the Chinese Government has again sent envoys to the United
States. They have been received, and a permanent legation is now established here by that Government.
It is not doubted that this step will be of advantage to both nations in promoting friendly
relations and removing causes of difference.

The treaty with the Samoan Islands, having been duly ratified and accepted on the part of both
Governments, is now in operation, and a survey and soundings of the harbor of Pago-Pago have
been made by a naval vessel of the United States, with a view of its occupation as a naval
station if found desirable to the service.

Since the resumption of diplomatic relations with Mexico correspondence has been opened and
still continues between the two Governments upon the various questions which at one time seemed
to endanger their relations. While no formal agreement has been reached as to the troubles
on the border, much has been done to repress and diminish them. The effective force of United
States troops on the Rio Grande, by a strict and faithful compliance with instructions, has
done much to remove the sources of dispute, and it is now understood that a like force of Mexican
troops on the other side of the river is also making an energetic movement against the marauding
Indian tribes. This Government looks with the greatest satisfaction upon every evidence of
strength in the national authority of Mexico, and upon every effort put forth to prevent or
to punish incursions upon our territory. Reluctant to assume any action or attitude in the
control of these incursions by military movements across the border not imperatively demanded
for the protection of the lives and property of our own citizens, I shall take the earliest
opportunity consistent with the proper discharge of this plain duty to recognize the ability
of the Mexican Government to restrain effectively violations of our territory. It is proposed
to hold next year an international exhibition in Mexico, and it is believed that the display
of the agricultural and manufacturing products of the two nations will tend to better understanding
and increased commercial intercourse between their people.

With Brazil and the Republics of Central and South America some steps have been taken toward
the development of closer commercial intercourse. Diplomatic relations have been resumed with
Colombia and with Bolivia. A boundary question between the Argentine Republic and Paraguay
has been submitted by those Governments for arbitration to the President of the United States,
and I have, after careful examination, given a decision upon it.

A naval expedition up the Amazon and Madeira rivers has brought back information valuable both
for scientific and commercial purposes. A like expedition is about visiting the coast of Africa
and the Indian Ocean. The reports of diplomatic and consular officers in relation to the development
of our foreign commerce have furnished many facts that have proved of public interest and have
stimulated to practical exertion the enterprise of our people.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury furnishes a detailed statement of the operations
of that Department of the Government and of the condition of the public finances.

The ordinary revenues from all sources for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1878, were $257,763,878.70;
the ordinary expenditures for the same period were $236,964,326.80, leaving a surplus revenue
for the year of $20,799,551.90. The receipts for the present fiscal year, ending June 30, 1879,
actual and estimated, are as follows: Actual receipts for the first quarter, commencing July
1, 1878, $73,389,743.43; estimated receipts for the remaining three quarters of the year, $191,110,256.57;
total receipts for the current fiscal year, actual and estimated, $264,500,000. The expenditures
for the same period will be, actual and estimated, as follows: For the quarter commencing July
1, 1878, actual expenditures, $73,344,573.27; and for the remaining three quarters of the year
the expenditures are estimated at $166,755,426.73, making the total expenditures $240,100,000,
and leaving an estimated surplus revenue for the year ending June 30, 1879, of $24,400,000.
The total receipts during the next fiscal year, ending June 30, 1880, estimated according to
existing laws, will be $264,500,000, and the estimated ordinary expenditures for the same period
will be $236,320,412.68, leaving a surplus of $28,179,587.32 for that year.

In the foregoing statements of expenditures, actual and estimated, no amount is allowed for
the sinking fund provided for by the act approved February 25, 1862, which requires that 1
per cent of the entire debt of the United States shall be purchased or paid within each fiscal
year, to be set apart as a sinking fund. There has been, however, a substantial compliance
with the conditions of the law. By its terms the public debt should have been reduced between
1862 and the close of the last fiscal year $518,361,806.28; the actual reduction of the ascertained
debt in that period has been $720,644,739.61, being in excess of the reduction required by
the sinking fund act $202,282,933.33.

The amount of the public debt, less cash in the Treasury, November 1, 1878, was $2,024,200,083.18
a reduction since the same date last year of $23,150,617.39.

The progress made during the last year in refunding the public debt at lower rates of interest
is very gratifying. The amount of 4 per cent bonds sold during the present year prior to November
23, 1878, is $100,270,900, and 6 per cent bonds, commonly known as five-twenties, to an equal
amount, have been or will be redeemed as calls mature.

It has been the policy of the Department to place the 4 per cent bonds within easy reach of
every citizen who desires to invest his savings, whether small or great, in these securities.
The Secretary of the Treasury recommends that the law be so modified that small sums may be
invested, and that through the post-offices or other agents of the Government the freest opportunity
may be given in all parts of the country for such investments.

The best mode suggested is that the Department be authorized to issue certificates of deposit,
of the denomination of $10, bearing interest at the rate of 3.65 per cent per annum and convertible
at any time within one year after their issue into the 4 per cent bonds authorized by the refunding
act, and to be issued only in exchange for United States notes sent to the Treasury by mail
or otherwise. Such a provision of law, supported by suitable regulations, would enable any
person readily, without cost or risk, to convert his money into an interest-bearing security
of the United States, and the money so received could be applied to the redemption of 6 per
cent bonds.

The coinage of gold during the last fiscal year was $52,798,980. The coinage of silver dollars
under the act passed February 28, 1878, amounted on the 23d of November, 1878, to $19,814,550,
of which amount $4,984,947 are in circulation, and the balance, $14,829,603, is still in the
possession of the Government.

With views unchanged with regard to the act under which the coinage of silver proceeds, it
has been the purpose of the Secretary faithfully to execute the law and to afford a fair trial
to the measure.

In the present financial condition of the country I am persuaded that the welfare of legitimate
business and industry of every description will be best promoted by abstaining from all attempts
to make radical changes in the existing financial legislation. Let it be understood that during
the coming year the business of the country will be undisturbed by governmental interference
with the laws affecting it, and we may confidently expect that the resumption of specie payments,
which will take place at the appointed time, will be successfully and easily maintained, and
that it will be followed by a healthful and enduring revival of business prosperity.

Let the healing influence of time, the inherent energies of our people, and the boundless resources
of our country have a fair opportunity, and relief from present difficulties will surely follow.

The report of the Secretary of War shows that the Army has been well and economically supplied;
that our small force has been actively employed and has faithfully performed all the service
required of it. The morale of the Army has improved and the number of desertions has materially
decreased during the year.

The Secretary recommends--

1. That a pension be granted to the widow of the late Lieutenant Henry H. Benner, Eighteenth
Infantry, who lost his life by yellow fever while in command of the steamer. J.M. Chambers,
sent with supplies for the relief of sufferers in the South from that disease.

2. The establishment of the annuity scheme for the benefit of the heirs of deceased officers,
as suggested by the Paymaster-General.

3. The adoption by Congress of a plan for the publication of the records of the War of the
Rebellion, now being prepared for that purpose.

4. The increase of the extra per diem of soldier teachers employed in post schools, and liberal
appropriations for the erection of buildings for schools and libraries at the different posts.

5. The repeal or amendment of the act of June 18, 1878, forbidding the use of the Army "as
a posse comitatus, or otherwise, for the purpose of executing the laws, except in such cases
and under such circumstances as such employment of said force may be expressly authorized by
the Constitution or by act of Congress."

6. The passage of a joint resolution of Congress legalizing the issues of rations, tents, and
medicines which were made for the relief of sufferers from yellow fever.

7. That provision be made for the erection of a fireproof building for the preservation of
certain valuable records, now constantly exposed to destruction by fire.

These recommendations are all commended to your favorable consideration.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows that the Navy has improved during the last fiscal
year. Work has been done on seventy-five vessels, ten of which have been thoroughly repaired
and made ready for sea. Two others are in rapid progress toward completion. The total expenditures
of the year, including the amount appropriated for the deficiencies of the previous year, were
$17,468,392.65. The actual expenses chargeable to the year, exclusive of these deficiencies,
were $13,306,914.09, or $767,199.18 less than those of the previous year, and $4,928,677.74
less than the expenses including the deficiencies. The estimates for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1880, are $14,562,381.45, exceeding the appropriations of the present year only $33,949.75,
which excess is occasioned by the demands of the Naval Academy and the Marine Corps, as explained
in the Secretary's report. The appropriations for the present fiscal year are $14,528,431.70,
which, in the opinion of the Secretary, will be ample for all the current expenses of the Department
during the year. The amount drawn from the Treasury from July 1 to November 1, 1878, is $4,740,544.14,
of which $70,980.75 has been refunded, leaving as the expenditure for that period $4,669,563.39,
or $520,899.24 less than the corresponding period of the last fiscal year.

The report of the Postmaster-General embraces a detailed statement of the operations of the
Post-Office Department. The expenditures of that Department for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1878, were $34,165,084.49. The receipts, including sales of stamps, money-order business,
and official stamps, were $29,277,516.95. The sum of $290,436.90, included in the foregoing
statement of expenditures, is chargeable to preceding years, so that the actual expenditures
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1878, are $33,874,647.59. The amount drawn from the Treasury
on appropriations, in addition to the revenues of the Department, was $5,307,652.82. The expenditures
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, are estimated at $36,571,900 and the receipts from
all sources at $30,664,023.90, leaving a deficiency to be appropriated out of the Treasury
of $5,907,876.10. The report calls attention to the fact that the compensation of postmasters
and of railroads for carrying the mail is regulated by law, and that the failure of Congress
to appropriate the amounts required for these purposes does not relieve the Government of responsibility,
but necessarily increases the deficiency bills which Congress will be called upon to pass.

In providing for the postal service the following questions are presented: Should Congress
annually appropriate a sum for its expenses largely in excess of its revenues, or should such
rates of postage be established as will make the Department self-sustaining? Should the postal
service be reduced by excluding from the mails matter which does not pay its way? Should the
number of post routes be diminished? Should other methods be adopted which will increase the
revenues or diminish the expenses of the postal service?

The International Postal Congress which met at Paris May 1, 1878, and continued in session
until June 4 of the same year, was composed of delegates from nearly all the civilized countries
of the world. It adopted a new convention (to take the place of the treaty concluded at Berne
October 9, 1874), which goes into effect on the 1st of April, 1879, between the countries whose
delegates have signed it. It was ratified and approved, by and with the consent of the President,
August 13, 1878. A synopsis of this Universal Postal Convention will be found in the report
of the Postmaster-General, and the full text in the appendix thereto. In its origin the Postal
Union comprised twenty-three countries, having a population of 350,000,000 people. On the 1st
of April next it will comprise forty-three countries and colonies, with a population of more
than 650,000,000 people, and will soon, by the accession of the few remaining countries and
colonies which maintain organized postal services, constitute in fact as well as in name, as
its new title indicates, a universal union, regulating, upon a uniform basis of cheap postage
rates, the postal intercourse between all civilized nations.

Some embarrassment has arisen out of the conflict between the customs laws of this country
and the provisions of the Postal Convention in regard to the transmission of foreign books
and newspapers to this country by mail. It is hoped that Congress will be able to devise some
means of reconciling the difficulties which have thus been created, so as to do justice to
all parties involved.

The business of the Supreme Court and of the courts in many of the circuits has increased to
such an extent during the past year that additional legislation is imperative to relieve and
prevent the delay of justice and possible oppression to suitors which is thus occasioned. The
encumbered condition of these dockets is presented anew in the report of the Attorney-General,
and the remedy suggested is earnestly urged for Congressional action. The creation of additional
circuit judges, as proposed, would afford a complete remedy, and would involve an expense,
at the present rate of salaries of not more than $60,000 a year.

The annual reports of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
present an elaborate account of the present condition of the Indian tribes and of that branch
of the public service which ministers to their interests. While the conduct of the Indians
generally has been orderly and their relations with their neighbors friendly and peaceable,
two local disturbances have occurred, which were deplorable in their character, but remained,
happily, confined to a comparatively small number of Indians. The discontent among the Bannocks,
which led first to some acts of violence on the part of some members of the tribe and finally
to the outbreak, appears to have been caused by an insufficiency of food on the reservation,
and this insufficiency to have been owing to the inadequacy of the appropriations made by Congress
to the wants of the Indians at a time when the Indians were prevented from supplying the deficiency
by hunting. After an arduous pursuit by the troops of the United States, and several engagements,
the hostile Indians were reduced to subjection, and the larger part of them surrendered themselves
as prisoners. In this connection I desire to call attention to the recommendation made by the
Secretary of the Interior, that a sufficient fund be placed at the disposal of the Executive,
to be used, with proper accountability, at discretion, in sudden emergencies of the Indian service.

The other case of disturbance was that of a band of Northern Cheyennes, who suddenly left their
reservation in the Indian Territory and marched rapidly through the States of Kansas and Nebraska
in the direction of their old hunting grounds, committing murders and other crimes on their
way. From documents accompanying the report of the Secretary of the Interior it appears that
this disorderly band was as fully supplied with the necessaries of life as the 4,700 other
Indians who remained quietly on the reservation, and that the disturbance was caused by men
of a restless and mischievous disposition among the Indians themselves. Almost the whole of
this band have surrendered to the military authorities; and it is a gratifying fact that when
some of them had taken refuge in the camp of the Red Cloud Sioux, with whom they had been in
friendly relations, the Sioux held them as prisoners and readily gave them up to the officers
of the United States, thus giving new proof of the loyal spirit which, alarming rumors to the
contrary notwithstanding, they have uniformly shown ever since the wishes they expressed at
the council of September, 1877, had been complied with.

Both the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of War unite in the recommendation that
provision be made by Congress for the organization of a corps of mounted "Indian auxiliaries,"
to be under the control of the Army and to be used for the purpose of keeping the Indians on
their reservations and preventing or repressing disturbance on their part. I earnestly concur
in this recommendation. It is believed that the organization of such a body of Indian cavalry,
receiving a moderate pay from the Government, would considerably weaken the restless element
among the Indians by withdrawing from it a number of young men and giving them congenial employment
under the Government, it being a matter of experience that Indians in our service almost without
exception are faithful in the performance of the duties assigned to them. Such an organization
would materially aid the Army in the accomplishment of a task for which its numerical strength
is sometimes found insufficient.

But while the employment of force for the prevention or repression of Indian troubles is of
occasional necessity, and wise preparation should be made to that end, greater reliance must
be placed on humane and civilizing agencies for the ultimate solution of what is called the
Indian problem. It may be very difficult and require much patient effort to curb the unruly
spirit of the savage Indian to the restraints of civilized life, but experience shows that
it is not impossible. Many of the tribes which are now quiet and orderly and self-supporting
were once as savage as any that at present roam over the plains or in the mountains of the
far West, and were then considered inaccessible to civilizing influences. It may be impossible
to raise them fully up to the level of the white population of the United States; but we should
not forget that they are the aborigines of the country, and called the soil their own on which
our people have grown rich, powerful, and happy. We owe it to them as a moral duty to help
them in attaining at least that degree of civilization which they may be able to reach. It
is not only our duty, it is also our interest to do so. Indians who have become agriculturists
or herdsmen, and feel an interest in property, will thenceforth cease to be a warlike and disturbing
element. It is also a well-authenticated fact that Indians are apt to be peaceable and quiet
when their children are at school, and I am gratified to know, from the expressions of Indians
themselves and from many concurring reports, that there is a steadily increasing desire, even
among Indians belonging to comparatively wild tribes, to have their children educated. I invite
attention to the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
touching the experiment recently inaugurated, in taking fifty Indian children, boys and girls,
from different tribes, to the Hampton Normal Agricultural Institute in Virginia, where they
are to receive an elementary English education and training in agriculture and other useful
works, to be returned to their tribes, after the completed course, as interpreters, instructors,
and examples. It is reported that the officer charged with the selection of those children
might have had thousands of young Indians sent with him had it been possible to make provision
for them. I agree with the Secretary of the Interior in saying that "the result of this interesting
experiment, if favorable, may be destined to become an important factor in the advancement
of civilization among the Indians."

The question whether a change in the control of the Indian service should be made was at the
last session of Congress referred to a committee for inquiry and report. Without desiring to
anticipate that report, I venture to express the hope that in the decision of so important
a question the views expressed above may not be lost sight of, and that the decision, whatever
it may be, will arrest further agitation of this subject, such agitation being apt to produce
a disturbing effect upon the service, as well as on the Indians themselves.

In the enrollment of the bill making appropriations for sundry civil expenses, at the last
session of Congress, that portion which provided for the continuation of the Hot Springs Commission
was omitted. As the commission had completed the work of taking testimony on the many conflicting
claims, the suspension of their labors, before determining the rights of claimants, threatened
for a time to embarrass the interests, not only of the Government, but also of a large number
of the citizens of Hot Springs, who were waiting for final action on their claims before beginning
contemplated improvements. In order to prevent serious difficulties, which were apprehended,
and at the solicitation of many leading citizens of Hot Springs and others interested in the
welfare of the town, the Secretary of the Interior was authorized to request the late commissioners
to take charge of the records of their proceedings and to perform such work as could properly
be done by them under such circumstances to facilitate the future adjudication of the claims
at an early day and to preserve the status of the claimants until their rights should be finally
determined. The late commissioners complied with that request, and report that the testimony
in all the cases has been written out, examined, briefed, and so arranged as to facilitate
an early settlement when authorized by law. It is recommended that the requisite authority
be given at as early a day in the session as possible, and that a fair compensation be allowed
the late commissioners for the expense incurred and the labor performed by them since the 25th
of June last.

I invite the attention of Congress to the recommendations made by the Secretary of the Interior
with regard to the preservation of the timber on the public lands of the United States. The
protection of the public property is one of the first duties of the Government. The Department
of the Interior should therefore be enabled by sufficient appropriations to enforce the laws
in that respect. But this matter appears still more important as a question of public economy.
The rapid destruction of our forests is an evil fraught with the gravest consequences, especially
in the mountainous districts, where the rocky slopes, once denuded of their trees, will remain
so forever. There the injury, once done, can not be repaired. I fully concur with the Secretary
of the Interior in the opinion that for this reason legislation touching the public timber
in the mountainous States and Territories of the West should be especially well considered,
and that existing laws in which the destruction of the forests is not sufficiently guarded
against should be speedily modified. A general law concerning this important subject appears
to me to be a matter of urgent public necessity.

From the organization of the Government the importance of encouraging by all possible means
the increase of our agricultural productions has been acknowledged and urged upon the attention
of Congress and the people as the surest and readiest means of increasing our substantial and
enduring prosperity. The preponderance of the agricultural over any other interest in the United
States entitles it to all the consideration claimed for it by Washington. About one-half of
the population of the United States is engaged in agriculture. The value of the agricultural
products of the United States for the year 1878 is estimated at $3,000,000,000. The exports
of agricultural products for the year 1877, as appears from the report of the Bureau of Statistics,
were $524,000,000. The great extent of our country, with its diversity of soil and climate,
enables us to produce within our own borders and by our own labor not only the necessaries,
but most of the luxuries, that are consumed in civilized countries. Yet, notwithstanding our
advantages of soil, climate, and inter-communication, it appears from the statistical statements
in the report of the Commissioner of Agriculture that we import annually from foreign lands
many millions of dollars worth of agricultural products which could be raised in our own country.

Numerous questions arise in the practice of advanced agriculture which can only be answered
by experiments, often costly and sometimes fruitless, which are beyond the means of private
individuals and are a just and proper charge on the whole nation for the benefit of the nation.
It is good policy, especially in times of depression and uncertainty in other business pursuits,
with a vast area of uncultivated, and hence unproductive, territory, wisely opened to homestead
settlement, to encourage by every proper and legitimate means the occupation and tillage of
the soil. The efforts of the Department of Agriculture to stimulate old and introduce new agricultural
industries, to improve the quality and increase the quantity of our products, to determine
the value of old or establish the importance of new methods of culture, are worthy of your
careful and favorable consideration, and assistance by such appropriations of money and enlargement
of facilities as may seem to be demanded by the present favorable conditions for the growth
and rapid development of this important interest.

The abuse of animals in transit is widely attracting public attention. A national convention
of societies specially interested in the subject has recently met at Baltimore, and the facts
developed, both in regard to cruelties to animals and the effect of such cruelties upon the
public health, would seem to demand the careful consideration of Congress and the enactment
of more efficient laws for the prevention of these abuses.

The report of the Commissioner of the Bureau of Education shows very gratifying progress throughout
the country in all the interests committed to the care of this important office. The report
is especially encouraging with respect to the extension of the advantages of the common-school
system in sections of the country where the general enjoyment of the privilege of free schools
is not yet attained.

To education more than to any other agency we are to look as the resource for the advancement
of the people in the requisite knowledge and appreciation of their rights and responsibilities
as citizens, and I desire to repeat the suggestion contained in my former message in behalf
of the enactment of appropriate measures by Congress for the purpose of supplementing with
national aid the local systems of education in the several States.

Adequate accommodations for the great library, which is overgrowing the capacity of the rooms
now occupied at the Capitol, should be provided without further delay. This invaluable collection
of books, manuscripts, and illustrative art has grown to such proportions, in connection with
the copyright system of the country, as to demand the prompt and careful attention of Congress
to save it from injury in its present crowded and insufficient quarters. As this library is
national in its character, and must from the nature of the case increase even more rapidly
in the future than in the past, it can not be doubted that the people will sanction any wise
expenditure to preserve it and to enlarge its usefulness.

The appeal of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for the means to organize, exhibit,
and make available for the public benefit the articles now stored away belonging to the National
Museum I heartily recommend to your favorable consideration.

The attention of Congress is again invited to the condition of the river front of the city
of Washington. It is a matter of vital importance to the health of the residents of the national
capital, both temporary and permanent, that the lowlands in front of the city, now subject
to tidal overflow, should be reclaimed. In their present condition these flats obstruct the
drainage of the city and are a dangerous source of malarial poison. The reclamation will improve
the navigation of the river by restricting, and consequently deepening, its channel, and is
also of importance when considered in connection with the extension of the public ground and
the enlargement of the park west and south of the Washington Monument. The report of the board
of survey, heretofore ordered by act of Congress, on the improvement of the harbor of Washington
and Georgetown, is respectfully commended to consideration.

The report of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia presents a detailed statement of
the affairs of the District.

The relative expenditures by the United States and the District for local purposes is contrasted,
showing that the expenditures by the people of the District greatly exceed those of the General
Government. The exhibit is made in connection with estimates for the requisite repair of the
defective pavements and sewers of the city, which is a work of immediate necessity; and in
the same connection a plan is presented for the permanent funding of the outstanding securities
of the District.

The benevolent, reformatory, and penal institutions of the District are all entitled to the
favorable attention of Congress. The Reform School needs additional buildings and teachers.
Appropriations which will place all of these institutions in a condition to become models of
usefulness and beneficence will be regarded by the country as liberality wisely bestowed.

The Commissioners, with evident justice, request attention to the discrimination made by Congress
against the District in the donation of land for the support of the public schools, and ask
that the same liberality that has been shown to the inhabitants of the various States and Territories
of the United States may be extended to the District of Columbia.

The Commissioners also invite attention to the damage inflicted upon public and private interests
by the present location of the depots and switching tracks of the several railroads entering
the city, and ask for legislation looking to their removal. The recommendations and suggestions
contained in the report will, I trust, receive the careful consideration of Congress.

Sufficient time has, perhaps, not elapsed since the reorganization of the government of the
District under the recent legislation of Congress for the expression of a confident opinion
as to its successful operation, but the practical results already attained are so satisfactory
that the friends of the new government may well urge upon Congress the wisdom of its continuance,
without essential modification, until by actual experience its advantages and defects may be
more fully ascertained.

R. B. HAYES

***

State of the Union Address Rutherford B. Hayes December 1, 1879

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

The members of the Forty-sixth Congress have assembled in their first regular session under
circumstances calling for mutual congratulation and grateful acknowledgment to the Giver of
All Good for the large and unusual measure of national prosperity which we now enjoy.

The most interesting events which have occurred in our public affairs since my last annual
message to Congress are connected with the financial operations of the Government, directly
affecting the business interests of the country. I congratulate Congress on the successful
execution of the resumption act. At the time fixed, and in the manner contemplated by law,
United States notes began to be redeemed in coin. Since the 1st of January last they have been
promptly redeemed on presentation, and in all business transactions, public and private, in
all parts of the country, they are received and paid out as the equivalent of coin. The demand
upon the Treasury for gold and silver in exchange for United States notes has been comparatively
small, and the voluntary deposit of coin and bullion in exchange for notes has been very large.
The excess of the precious metals deposited or exchanged for United States notes over the amount
of United States notes redeemed is about $40,000,000.

The resumption of specie payments has been followed by a very great revival of business. With
a currency equivalent in value to the money of the commercial world, we are enabled to enter
upon an equal competition with other nations in trade and production. The increasing foreign
demand for our manufactures and agricultural products has caused a large balance of trade in
our favor, which has been paid in gold, from the 1st of July last to November 15, to the amount
of about $59,000,000. Since the resumption of specie payments there has also been a marked
and gratifying improvement of the public credit. The bonds of the Government bearing only 4
per cent interest have been sold at or above par, sufficient in amount to pay off all of the
national debt which was redeemable under present laws. The amount of interest saved annually
by the process of refunding the debt since March 1, 1877, is $14,297,177. The bonds sold were
largely in small sums, and the number of our citizens now holding the public securities is
much greater than ever before. The amount of the national debt which matures within less than
two years is $792,121,700, of which $500,000,000 bear interest at the rate of 5 per cent, and
the balance is in bonds bearing 6 per cent interest. It is believed that this part of the public
debt can be refunded by the issue of 4 per cent bonds, and, by the reduction of interest which
will thus be effected, about $11,000,000 can be annually saved to the Treasury. To secure this
important reduction of interest to be paid by the United States further legislation is required,
which it is hoped will be provided by Congress during its present session.

The coinage of gold by the mints of the United States during the last fiscal year was $40,986,912.
The coinage of silver dollars since the passage of the act for that purpose up to November
1, 1879, was $45,000,850, of which $12,700,344 have been issued from the Treasury and are now
in circulation, and $32,300,506 are still in the possession of the Government.

The pendency of the proposition for unity of action between the United States and the principal
commercial nations of Europe to effect a permanent system for the equality of gold and silver
in the recognized money of the world leads me to recommend that Congress refrain from new legislation
on the general subject. The great revival of trade, internal and foreign, will supply during
the coming year its own instructions, which may well be awaited before attempting further experimental
measures with the coinage. I would, however, strongly urge upon Congress the importance of
authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to suspend the coinage of silver dollars upon the
present legal ratio. The market value of the silver dollar being uniformly and largely less
than the market value of the gold dollar, it is obviously impracticable to maintain them at
par with each other if both are coined without limit. If the cheaper coin is forced into circulation,
it will, if coined without limit, soon become the sole standard of value, and thus defeat the
desired object, which is a currency of both gold and silver which shall be of equivalent value,
dollar for dollar, with the universally recognized money of the world.

The retirement from circulation of United States notes with the capacity of legal tender in
private contracts is a step to be taken in our progress toward a safe and stable currency which
should be accepted as the policy and duty of the Government and the interest and security of
the people. It is my firm conviction that the issue of legal-tender paper money based wholly
upon the authority and credit of the Government, except in extreme emergency, is without warrant
in the Constitution and a violation of sound financial principles. The issue of United States
notes during the late civil war with the capacity of legal tender between private individuals
was not authorized except as a means of rescuing the country from imminent peril. The circulation
of these notes as paper money for any protracted period of time after the accomplishment of
this purpose was not contemplated by the framers of the law under which they were issued. They
anticipated the redemption and withdrawal of these notes at the earliest practicable period
consistent with the attainment of the object for which they were provided.

The policy of the United States, steadily adhered to from the adoption of the Constitution,
has been to avoid the creation of a national debt; and when, from necessity in time of war,
debts have been created, they have been paid off, on the return of peace, as rapidly as possible.
With this view, and for this purpose, it is recommended that the existing laws for the accumulation
of a sinking fund sufficient to extinguish the public debt within a limited period be maintained.
If any change of the objects or rates of taxation is deemed necessary by Congress, it is suggested
that experience has shown that a duty can be placed on tea and coffee which will not enhance
the price of those articles to the consumer, and which will add several millions of dollars
annually to the Treasury.

The continued deliberate violation by a large number of the prominent and influential citizens
of the Territory of Utah of the laws of the United States for the prosecution and punishment
of polygamy demands the attention of every department of the Government. This Territory has
a population sufficient to entitle it to admission as a State, and the general interests of
the nation, as well as the welfare of the citizens of the Territory, require its advance from
the Territorial form of government to the responsibilities and privileges of a State. This
important change will not, however, be approved by the country while the citizens of Utah in
very considerable number uphold a practice which is condemned as a crime by the laws of all
civilized communities throughout the world.

The law for the suppression of this offense was enacted with great unanimity by Congress more
than seventeen years ago, but has remained until recently a dead letter in the Territory of
Utah, because of the peculiar difficulties attending its enforcement. The opinion widely prevailed
among the citizens of Utah that the law was in contravention of the constitutional guaranty
of religious freedom. This objection is now removed. The Supreme Court of the United States
has decided the law to be within the legislative power of Congress and binding as a rule of
action for all who reside within the Territories. There is no longer any reason for delay or
hesitation in its enforcement. It should be firmly and effectively executed. If not sufficiently
stringent in its provisions, it should be amended; and in aid of the purpose in view I recommend
that more comprehensive and more searching methods for preventing as well as punishing this
crime be provided. If necessary to secure obedience to the law, the enjoyment and exercise
of the rights and privileges of citizenship in the Territories of the United States may be
withheld or withdrawn from those who violate or oppose the enforcement of the law on this subject.

The elections of the past year, though occupied only with State officers, have not failed to
elicit in the political discussions which attended them all over the country new and decisive
evidence of the deep interest which the great body of citizens take in the progress of the
country toward a more general and complete establishment, at whatever cost, of universal security
and freedom in the exercise of the elective franchise. I earnestly appeal to the intelligence
and patriotism of all good citizens of every part of the country, however much they maybe divided
in opinions on other political subjects, to unite in compelling obedience to existing laws
aimed at the protection of the right of suffrage. I respectfully urge upon Congress to supply
any defects in these laws which experience has shown and which it is within its power to remedy.
I again invoke the cooperation of the executive and legislative authorities of the States in
this great purpose. I am fully convinced that if the public mind can be set at rest on this
paramount question of popular rights no serious obstacle will thwart or delay the complete
pacification of the country or retard the general diffusion of prosperity.

In a former message I invited the attention of Congress to the subject of the reformation of
the civil service of the Government, and expressed the intention of transmitting to Congress
as early as practicable a report upon this subject by the chairman of the Civil Service Commission.

In view of the facts that during a considerable period the Government of Great Britain has
been dealing with administrative problems and abuses in various particulars analogous to those
presented in this country, and that in recent years the measures adopted were understood to
have been effective and in every respect highly satisfactory, I thought it desirable to have
fuller information upon the subject, and accordingly requested the chairman of the Civil Service
Commission to make a thorough investigation for this purpose. The result has been an elaborate
and comprehensive report.

The report sets forth the history of the partisan spoils system in Great Britain, and of the
rise and fall of the parliamentary patronage, and of official interference with the freedom
of elections. It shows that after long trials of various kinds of examinations those which
are competitive and open on equal terms to all, and which are carried on under the superintendence
of a single commission, have, with great advantage, been established as conditions of admission
to almost every official place in the subordinate administration of that country and of British
India. The completion of the report, owing to the extent of the labor involved in its preparation
and the omission of Congress to make any provision either for the compensation or the expenses
of the Commission, has been postponed until the present time. It is herewith transmitted to
Congress.

While the reform measures of another government are of no authority for us, they are entitled
to influence to the extent to which their intrinsic wisdom and their adaptation to our institutions
and social life may commend them to our consideration. The views I have heretofore expressed
concerning the defects and abuses in our civil administration remain unchanged, except in so
far as an enlarged experience has deepened my sense of the duty both of officers and of the
people themselves to cooperate for their removal. The grave evils and perils of a partisan
spoils system of appointment to office and of office tenure are now generally recognized. In
the resolutions of the great parties, in the reports of Departments, in the debates and proceedings
of Congress, in the messages of Executives, the gravity of these evils has been pointed out
and the need of their reform has been admitted.

To command the necessary support, every measure of reform must be based on common right and
justice, and must be compatible with the healthy existence of great parties, which are inevitable
and essential in a free state.

When the people have approved a policy at a national election, confidence on the part of the
officers they have selected and of the advisers who, in accordance with our political institutions,
should be consulted in the policy which it is their duty to carry into effect is indispensable.
It is eminently proper that they should explain it before the people, as well as illustrate
its spirit in the performance of their official duties.

Very different considerations apply to the greater number of those who fill the subordinate
places in the civil service. Their responsibility is to their superiors in official position.
It is their duty to obey the legal instructions of those upon whom that authority is devolved,
and their best public service consists in the discharge of their functions irrespective of
partisan politics. Their duties are the same whatever party is in power and whatever policy
prevails. As a consequence it follows that their tenure of office should not depend on the
prevalence of any policy or the supremacy of any party, but should be determined by their capacity
to serve the people most usefully quite irrespective of partisan interests. The same considerations
that should govern the tenure should also prevail in the appointment, discipline, and removal
of these subordinates. The authority of appointment and removal is not a perquisite, which
may be used to aid a friend or reward a partisan, but is a trust, to be exercised in the public
interest under all the sanctions which attend the obligation to apply the public funds only
for public purposes.

Every citizen has an equal right to the honor and profit of entering the public service of
his country. The only just ground of discrimination is the measure of character and capacity
he has to make that service most useful to the people. Except in cases where, upon just and
recognized principles--as upon the theory of pensions--offices and promotions are bestowed
as rewards for past services, their bestowal upon any theory which disregards personal merit
is an act of injustice to the citizen, as well as a breach of that trust subject to which the
appointing power is held.

In the light of these principles it becomes of great importance to provide just and adequate
means, especially for every Department and large administrative office, where personal discrimination
on the part of its head is not practicable, for ascertaining those qualifications to which
appointments and removals should have reference. To fail to provide such means is not only
to deny the opportunity of ascertaining the facts upon which the most righteous claim to office
depends, but of necessity to discourage all worthy aspirants by handing over appointments and
removals to mere influence and favoritism. If it is the right of the worthiest claimant to
gain the appointment and the interest of the people to bestow it upon him, it would seem clear
that a wise and just method of ascertaining personal fitness for office must be an important
and permanent function of every just and wise government. It has long since become impossible
in the great offices for those having the duty of nomination and appointment to personally
examine into the individual qualifications of more than a small proportion of those seeking
office, and with the enlargement of the civil service that proportion must continue to become less.

In the earlier years of the Government the subordinate offices were so few in number that it
was quite easy for those making appointments and promotions to personally ascertain the merits
of candidates. Party managers and methods had not then become powerful agencies of coercion,
hostile to the free and just exercise of the appointing power.

A large and responsible part of the duty of restoring the civil service to the desired purity
and efficiency rests upon the President, and it is my purpose to do what is within my power
to advance such prudent and gradual measures of reform as will most surely and rapidly bring
about that radical change of system essential to make our administrative methods satisfactory
to a free and intelligent people. By a proper exercise of authority it is in the power of the
Executive to do much to promote such a reform. But it can not be too clearly understood that
nothing adequate can be accomplished without cooperation on the part of Congress and considerate
and intelligent support among the people. Reforms which challenge the generally accepted theories
of parties and demand changes in the methods of Departments are not the work of a day. Their
permanent foundations must be laid in sound principles and in an experience which demonstrates
their wisdom and exposes the errors of their adversaries. Every worthy officer desires to make
his official action a gain and an honor to his country; but the people themselves, far more
than their officers in public station, are interested in a pure, economical, and vigorous administration.

By laws enacted in 1853 and 1855, and now in substance incorporated in the Revised Statutes,
the practice of arbitrary appointments to the several subordinate grades in the great Departments
was condemned, and examinations as to capacity, to be conducted by departmental boards of examiners,
were provided for and made conditions of admission to the public service. These statutes are
a decision by Congress that examinations of some sort as to attainments and capacity are essential
to the well-being of the public service. The important questions since the enactment of these
laws have been as to the character of these examinations, and whether official favor and partisan
influence or common right and merit were to control the access to the examinations. In practice
these examinations have not always been open to worthy persons generally who might wish to
be examined. Official favoritism and partisan influence, as a rule, appear to have designated
those who alone were permitted to go before the examining boards, subjecting even the examiners
to a pressure from the friends of the candidates very difficult to resist. As a consequence
the standard of admission fell below that which the public interest demanded. It was also almost
inevitable that a system which provided for various separate boards of examiners, with no common
supervision or uniform method of procedure, should result in confusion, inconsistency, and
inadequate tests of capacity, highly detrimental to the public interest. A further and more
radical change was obviously required. Congress accordingly passed the act approved March 3,
1871, "to regulate the civil service of the United States and promote the efficiency thereof,"
giving the necessary authority to the Executive to inaugurate a civil-service reform.

Acting under this statute, which was interpreted as intended to secure a system of just and
effectual examinations under uniform supervision, a number of eminently competent persons were
selected for the purpose, who entered with zeal upon the discharge of their duties, prepared
with an intelligent appreciation of the requirements of the service the regulations contemplated,
and took charge of the examinations, and who in their capacity as a board have been known as
the "Civil Service Commission." Congress for two years appropriated the money needed for the
compensation and for the expense of carrying on the work of the Commission.

It appears from the report of the Commission submitted to the President in April, 1874, that
examinations had been held in various sections of the country, and that an appropriation of
about $25,000 would be required to meet the annual expenses, including salaries, involved in
discharging the duties of the Commission. The report was transmitted to Congress by special
message of April 18, 1874, with the following favorable comment upon the labors of the Commission:
If sustained by Congress, I have no doubt the rules can, after the experience gained, be so
improved and enforced as to still more materially benefit the public service and relieve the
Executive, members of Congress, and the heads of Departments from influences prejudicial to
good administration. The rules, as they have hitherto been enforced, have resulted beneficially,
as is shown by the opinions of the members of the Cabinet and their subordinates in the Departments,
and in that opinion I concur. And in the annual message of December of the same year similar
views are expressed and an appropriation for continuing the work of the Commission again advised.

The appropriation was not made, and as a consequence the active work of the Commission was
suspended, leaving the Commission itself still in existence. Without the means, therefore,
of causing qualifications to be tested in any systematic manner or of securing for the public
service the advantages of competition upon any extensive plan, I recommended in my annual message
of December, 1877, the making of an appropriation for the resumption of the work of the Commission.

In the meantime, however, competitive examinations, under many embarrassments, have been conducted
within limited spheres in the Executive Departments in Washington and in a number of the custom-houses
and post-offices of the principal cities of the country, with a view to further test their
effects, and in every instance they have been found to be as salutary as they are stated to
have been under the Administration of my predecessor. I think the economy, purity, and efficiency
of the public service would be greatly promoted by their systematic introduction, wherever
practicable, throughout the entire civil service of the Government, together with ample provision
for their general supervision in order to secure consistency and uniform justice.

Reports from the Secretary of the Interior, from the Postmaster-General, from the postmaster
in the city of New York, where such examinations have been some time on trial, and also from
the collector of the port, the naval officer, and the surveyor in that city, and from the postmasters
and collectors in several of the other large cities, show that the competitive system, where
applied, has in various ways contributed to improve the public service.

The reports show that the results have been salutary in a marked degree, and that the general
application of similar rules can not fail to be of decided benefit to the service.

The reports of the Government officers, in the city of New York especially, bear decided testimony
to the utility of open competitive examinations in their respective offices, showing that--These
examinations and the excellent qualifications of those admitted to the service through them
have had a marked incidental effect upon the persons previously in the service, and particularly
upon those aspiring to promotion. There has been on the part of these latter an increased interest
in the work and a desire to extend acquaintance with it beyond the particular desk occupied,
and thus the morale of the entire force has been raised. The examinations have been attended
by many citizens, who have had an opportunity to thoroughly investigate the scope and character
of the tests and the method of determining the results, and those visitors have without exception
approved the methods employed, and several of them have publicly attested their favorable opinion.
Upon such considerations I deem it my duty to renew the recommendation contained in my annual
message of December, 1877, requesting Congress to make the necessary appropriation for the
resumption of the work of the Civil Service Commission. Economy will be promoted by authorizing
a moderate compensation to persons in the public service who may perform extra labor upon or
under the Commission, as the Executive may direct.

I am convinced that if a just and adequate test of merit is enforced for admission to the public
service and in making promotions such abuses as removals without good cause and partisan and
official interference with the proper exercise of the appointing power will in large measure
disappear.

There are other administrative abuses to which the attention of Congress should be asked in
this connection. Mere partisan appointments and the constant peril of removal without cause
very naturally lead to an absorbing and mischievous political activity on the part of those
thus appointed, which not only interferes with the due discharge of official duty, but is incompatible
with the freedom of elections. Not without warrant in the views of several of my predecessors
in the Presidential office, and directly within the law of 1871, already cited, I endeavored,
by regulation made on the 22d day of June, 1877, to put some reasonable limits to such abuses.
It may not be easy, and it may never perhaps be necessary, to define with precision the proper
limit of political action on the part of Federal officers. But while their right to hold and
freely express their opinions can not be questioned, it is very plain that they should neither
be allowed to devote to other subjects the time needed for the proper discharge of their official
duties nor to use the authority of their office to enforce their own opinions or to coerce
the political action of those who hold different opinions.

Reasons of justice and public policy quite analogous to those which forbid the use of official
power for the oppression of the private citizen impose upon the Government the duty of protecting
its officers and agents from arbitrary exactions. In whatever aspect considered, the practice
of making levies for party purposes upon the salaries of officers is highly demoralizing to
the public service and discreditable to the country. Though an officer should be as free as
any other citizen to give his own money in aid of his opinions or his party, he should also
be as free as any other citizen to refuse to make such gifts. If salaries are but a fair compensation
for the time and labor of the officer, it is gross injustice to levy a tax upon them. If they
are made excessive in order that they may bear the tax, the excess is an indirect robbery of
the public funds.

I recommend, therefore, such a revision and extension of present statutes as shall secure to
those in every grade of official life or public employment the protection with which a great
and enlightened nation should guard those who are faithful in its service.

Our relations with foreign countries have continued peaceful.

With Great Britain there are still unsettled questions, growing out of the local laws of the
maritime provinces and the action of provincial authorities deemed to be in derogation of rights
secured by treaty to American fishermen. The United States minister in London has been instructed
to present a demand for $105,305.02 in view of the damages received by American citizens at
Fortune Bay on the 6th day of January, 1878. The subject has been taken into consideration
by the British Government, and an early reply is anticipated.

Upon the completion of the necessary preliminary examinations the subject of our participation
in the provincial fisheries, as regulated by treaty, will at once be brought to the attention
of the British Government, with a view to an early and permanent settlement of the whole question,
which was only temporarily adjusted by the treaty of Washington.

Efforts have been made to obtain the removal of restrictions found injurious to the exportation
of cattle to the United Kingdom.

Some correspondence has also occurred with regard to the rescue and saving of life and property
upon the Lakes, which has resulted in important modifications of the previous regulations of
the Dominion government on the subject in the interest of humanity and commerce.

In accordance with the joint resolution of the last session of Congress, commissioners were
appointed to represent the United States at the two international exhibitions in Australia,
one of which is now in progress at Sydney, and the other to be held next year at Melbourne.
A desire has been expressed by our merchants and manufacturers interested in the important
and growing trade with Australia that an increased provision should be made by Congress for
the representation of our industries at the Melbourne exhibition of next year, and the subject
is respectfully submitted to your favorable consideration.

The assent of the Government has been given to the landing on the coast of Massachusetts of
a new and independent transatlantic cable between France, by way of the French island of St.
Pierre, and this country, subject to any future legislation of Congress on the subject. The
conditions imposed before allowing this connection with our shores to be established are such
as to secure its competition with any existing or future lines of marine cable and preclude
amalgamation therewith, to provide for entire equality of rights to our Government and people
with those of France in the use of the cable, and prevent any exclusive possession of the privilege
as accorded by France to the disadvantage of any future cable communication between France
and the United States which may be projected and accomplished by our citizens. An important
reduction of the present rates of cable communication with Europe, felt to be too burdensome
to the interests of our commerce, must necessarily flow from the establishment of this competing
line.

The attention of Congress was drawn to the propriety of some general regulation by Congress
of the whole subject of transmarine cables by my predecessor in his message of December 7,
1875, and I respectfully submit to your consideration the importance of Congressional action
in the matter.

The questions of grave importance with Spain growing out of the incidents of the Cuban insurrection
have been for the most part happily and honorably settled. It may reasonably be anticipated
that the commission now sitting in Washington for the decision of private cases in this connection
will soon be able to bring its labors to a conclusion.

The long-standing question of East Florida claims has lately been renewed as a subject of correspondence,
and may possibly require Congressional action for its final disposition.

A treaty with the Netherlands with respect to consular rights and privileges similar to those
with other powers has been signed and ratified, and the ratifications were exchanged on the
31st of July last. Negotiations for extradition treaties with the Netherlands and with Denmark
are now in progress.

Some questions with Switzerland in regard to pauper and convict emigrants have arisen, but
it is not doubted that they will be arranged upon a just and satisfactory basis. A question
has also occurred with respect to an asserted claim by Swiss municipal authorities to exercise
tutelage over persons and property of Swiss citizens naturalized in this country. It is possible
this may require adjustment by treaty.

With the German Empire frequent questions arise in connection with the Subjects of naturalization
and expatriation, but the Imperial Government has constantly manifested a desire to strictly
maintain and comply with all treaty stipulations in regard to them.

In consequence of the omission of Congress to provide for a diplomatic representative at Athens,
the legation to Greece has been withdrawn. There is now no channel of diplomatic communication
between the two countries, and the expediency of providing for one in some form is submitted
to Congress.

Relations with Austria, Russia, Italy, Portugal, Turkey, and Belgium continue amicable, and
marked by no incident of especial importance.

A change of the personal head of the Government of Egypt has taken place. No change, however,
has occurred in the relations between Egypt and the United States. The action of the Egyptian
Government in presenting to the city of New York one of the ancient obelisks, which possess
such historic interest, is highly appreciated as a generous mark of international regard. If
prosperity should attend the enterprise of its transportation across the Atlantic, its erection
in a conspicuous position in the chief commercial city of the nation will soon be accomplished.

The treaty recently made between Japan and the United States in regard to the revision of former
commercial treaties it is now believed will be followed by similar action on the part of other
treaty powers. The attention of Congress is again invited to the subject of the indemnity funds
received some years since from Japan and China, which, with their accumulated interest, now
amount to considerable sums. If any part of these funds is justly due to American citizens,
they should receive it promptly; and whatever may have been received by this Government in
excess of strictly just demands should in some form be returned to the nations to whom it equitably
belongs.

The Government of China has signified its willingness to consider the question of the emigration
of its subjects to the United States with a dispassionate fairness and to cooperate in such
measures as may tend to prevent injurious consequences to the United States. The negotiations
are still proceeding, and will be pressed with diligence.

A question having arisen between China and Japan about the Lew Chew Islands, the United States
Government has taken measures to inform those powers of its readiness to extend its good offices
for the maintenance of peace if they shall mutually deem it desirable and find it practicable
to avail themselves of the proffer.

It is a gratification to be able to announce that, through the judicious and energetic action
of the military commanders of the two nations on each side of the Rio Grande, under the instructions
of their respective Governments, raids and depredations have greatly decreased, and in the
localities where formerly most destructive have now almost wholly ceased. In view of this result,
I entertain a confident expectation that the prevalence of quiet on the border will soon become
so assured as to justify a modification of the present orders to our military commanders as
to crossing the border, without encouraging such disturbances as would endanger the peace of
the two countries.

The third installment of the award against Mexico under the claims commission of July 4, 1868,
was duly paid, and has been put in course of distribution in pursuance of the act of Congress
providing for the same. This satisfactory situation between the two countries leads me to anticipate
an expansion of our trade with Mexico and an increased contribution of capital and industry
by our people to the development of the great resources of that country. I earnestly commend
to the wisdom of Congress the provision of suitable legislation looking to this result.

Diplomatic intercourse with Colombia is again fully restored by the arrival of a minister from
that country to the United States. This is especially fortunate in view of the fact that the
question of an inter-oceanic canal has recently assumed a new and important aspect and is now
under discussion with the Central American countries through whose territory the canal, by
the Nicaragua route, would have to pass. It is trusted that enlightened statesmanship on their
part will see that the early prosecution of such a work will largely inure to the benefit,
not only of their own citizens and those of the United States, but of the commerce of the civilized
world. It is not doubted that should the work be undertaken under the protective auspices of
the United States, and upon satisfactory concessions for the right of way and its security
by the Central American Governments, the capital for its completion would be readily furnished
from this country and Europe, which might, failing such guaranties, prove inaccessible.

Diplomatic relations with Chile have also been strengthened by the reception of a minister
from that country.

The war between Peru, Bolivia, and Chile still continues. The United States have not deemed
it proper to interpose in the matter further than to convey to all the Governments concerned
the assurance that the friendly offices of the Government of the United States for the restoration
of peace upon an honorable basis will be extended in case the belligerents shall exhibit a
readiness to accept them.

Cordial relations continue with Brazil and the Argentine Republic, and trade with those countries
is improving. A provision for regular and more frequent mail communication, in our own ships,
between the ports of this country and the nations of South America seems to me to deserve the
attention of Congress as an essential precursor of an enlargement of our commerce with them
and an extension of our carrying trade.

A recent revolution in Venezuela has been followed by the establishment of a provisional government.
This government has not yet been formally recognized, and it is deemed desirable to await the
proposed action of the people which is expected to give it the sanction of constitutional forms.

A naval vessel has been sent to the Samoan Islands to make surveys and take possession of the
privileges ceded to the United States by Samoa in the harbor of Pago-Pago. A coaling station
is to be established there, which will be convenient and useful to United States vessels.

The subject of opening diplomatic relations with Roumania and Servia, now become independent
sovereignties, is at present under consideration, and is the subject of diplomatic correspondence.

There is a gratifying increase of trade with nearly all European and American countries, and
it is believed that with judicious action in regard to its development it can and will be still
more enhanced and that American products and manufactures will find new and expanding markets.
The reports of diplomatic and consular officers upon this subject, under the system now adopted,
have resulted in obtaining much valuable information, which has been and will continue to be
laid before Congress and the public from time to time.

The third article of the treaty with Russia of March 30, 1867, by which Alaska was ceded to
the United States, provides that the inhabitants of the ceded territory, with the exception
of the uncivilized native tribes, shall be admitted to the enjoyment of all the rights of citizens
of the United States and shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty,
property, and religion. The uncivilized tribes are subject to such laws and regulations as
the United States may from time to time adopt in regard to the aboriginal tribes of that country.

Both the obligations of this treaty and the necessities of the people require that some organized
form of government over the Territory of Alaska be adopted.

There appears to be no law for the arrest of persons charged with common-law offenses, such
as assault, robbery, and murder, and no magistrate authorized to issue or execute process in
such cases. Serious difficulties have already arisen from offenses of this character, not only
among the original inhabitants, but among citizens of the United States and other countries
who have engaged in mining, fishing, and other business operations within the territory. A
bill authorizing the appointment of justices of the peace and constables and the arrest and
detention of persons charged with criminal offenses, and providing for an appeal to United
States courts for the district of Oregon in suitable cases, will at a proper time be submitted
to Congress. The total receipts during the next fiscal year, ending June 30, 1881, estimated
according to existing laws, will be $288,000,000, and the estimated ordinary expenditures for
the same period will be $278,097,364.39, leaving a surplus of $9,902,635.61 for that year.

The large amount expended for arrears of pensions during the last and the present fiscal year,
amounting to $21,747,249.60, has prevented the application of the full amount required by law
to the sinking fund for the current year; but these arrears having been substantially paid,
it is believed that the sinking fund can hereafter be maintained without any change of existing
law.

The Secretary of War reports that the War Department estimates for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1881, are $40,380,428.93, the same being for a less sum of money than any annual estimate
rendered to Congress from that Department during a period of at least twelve years.

He concurs with the General of the Army in recommending such legislation as will authorize
the enlistment of the full number of 25,000 men for the line of the Army, exclusive of the
3,463 men required for detached duty, and therefore not available for service in the field.

He also recommends that Congress be asked to provide by law for the disposition of a large
number of abandoned military posts and reservations, which, though very valuable in themselves,
have been rendered useless for military purposes by the advance of civilization and settlement.

He unites with the Quartermaster-General in recommending that an appropriation be made for
the construction of a cheap and perfectly fireproof building for the safe storage of a vast
amount of money accounts, vouchers, claims, and other valuable records now in the Quartermaster-General's
Office, and exposed to great risk of total destruction by fire.

He also recommends, in conformity with the views of the Judge-Advocate-General, some declaratory
legislation in reference to the military statute of limitations as applied to the crime of
desertion. In these several recommendations I concur.

The Secretary of War further reports that the work for the improvement of the South Pass of
the Mississippi River, under contract with Mr. James B. Eads, made in pursuance of an act of
Congress, has been prosecuted during the past year with a greater measure of success in the
attainment of results than during any previous year. The channel through the South Pass, which
at the beginning of operations in June, 1875, had a depth of only 7 1/2 feet of water, had
on the 8th of July, 1879, a minimum depth of 26 feet, having a width of not less than 200 feet
and a central depth of 30 feet. Payments have been made in accordance with the statute, as
the work progressed, amounting in the aggregate to $4,250,000; and further payments will become
due, as provided by the statute, in the event of success in maintaining the channel now secured.

The reports of the General of the Army and of his subordinates present a full and detailed
account of the military operations for the suppression of hostilities among the Indians of
the Ute and Apache tribes, and praise is justly awarded to the officers and troops engaged
for promptness, skill, and courage displayed.

The past year has been one of almost unbroken peace and quiet on the Mexican frontier, and
there is reason to believe that the efforts of this Government and of Mexico to maintain order
in that region will prove permanently successful.

This Department was enabled during the past year to find temporary, though crowded, accommodations
and a safe depository for a portion of its records in the completed east wing of the building
designed for the State, War, and Navy Departments. The construction of the north wing of the
building, a part of the structure intended for the use of the War Department, is being carried
forward with all possible dispatch, and the work should receive from Congress such liberal
appropriations as will secure its speedy completion.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows continued improvement in that branch of the service
during the last fiscal year. Extensive repairs have been made upon vessels, and two new ships
have been completed and made ready for sea.

The total expenditures of the year ended June 30, 1879, including specific appropriations not
estimated for by the Department, were $13,555,710.09. The expenses chargeable to the year,
after deducting the amount of these specific appropriations, were $13,343,317.79; but this
is subject to a reduction of $283,725.99, that amount having been drawn upon warrants, but
not paid out during the year. The amount of appropriations applicable to the last fiscal year
was $14,538,646.17. There was, therefore, a balance of $1,479,054.37 remaining unexpended and
to the credit of the Department on June 30, 1879. The estimates for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1881, are $14,864,147.95, which exceeds the appropriations for the present fiscal
year $361,897.28. The reason for this increase is explained in the Secretary's report. The
appropriations available for the present fiscal year are $14,502,250.67, which will, in the
opinion of the Secretary, answer all the ordinary demands of the service. The amount drawn
from the Treasury from July 1 to November 1, 1879 was $5,770,404.12, of which $1,095,440.33
has been refunded, leaving as the expenditure for that period $4,674,963.79. If the expenditures
of the remaining two-thirds of the year do not exceed the proportion for these four months,
there will remain unexpended at the end of the year $477,359.30 of the current appropriations.
The report of the Secretary shows the gratifying fact that among all the disbursing officers
of the Pay Corps of the Navy there is not one who is a defaulter to the extent of a single
dollar. I unite with him in recommending the removal of the observatory to a more healthful
location. That institution reflects credit upon the nation, and has obtained the approbation
of scientific men in all parts of the world. Its removal from its present location would not
only be conducive to the health of its officers and professors, but would greatly increase
its usefulness.

The appropriation for judicial expenses, which has heretofore been made for the Department
of Justice in gross, was subdivided at the last session of Congress, and no appropriation whatever
was made for the payment of the fees of marshals and their deputies, either in the service
of process or for the discharge of other duties; and since June 30 these officers have continued
the performance of their duties without compensation from the Government, taking upon themselves
the necessary incidental outlays, as well as rendering their own services. In only a few unavoidable
instances has the proper execution of the process of the United States failed by reason of
the absence of the requisite appropriation. This course of official conduct on the part of
these officers, highly creditable to their fidelity, was advised by the Attorney-General, who
informed them, however, that they would necessarily have to rely for their compensation upon
the prospect of future legislation by Congress. I therefore especially recommend that immediate
appropriation be made by Congress for this purpose. No appropriation was made for this purpose
for the current year. As no general election for Members of Congress occurred, the omission
was a matter of little practical importance. Such election will, however, take place during
the ensuing year, and the appropriation made for the pay of marshals and deputies should be
sufficient to embrace compensation for the services they may be required to perform at such
elections.

The business of the Supreme Court is at present largely in arrears. It can not be expected
that more causes can be decided than are now disposed of in its annual session, or that by
any assiduity the distinguished magistrates who compose the court can accomplish more than
is now done. In the courts of many of the circuits also the business has increased to such
an extent that the delay of justice will call the attention of Congress to an appropriate remedy.
It is believed that all is done in each circuit which can fairly be expected from its judicial
force. The evils arising from delay are less heavily felt by the United States than by private
suitors, as its causes are advanced by the courts when it is seen that they involve the discussion
of questions of a public character.

The remedy suggested by the Attorney-General is the appointment of additional circuit judges
and the creation of an intermediate court of errors and appeals, which shall relieve the Supreme
Court of a part of its jurisdiction, while a larger force is also obtained for the performance
of circuit duties.

I commend this suggestion to the consideration of Congress. It would seem to afford a complete
remedy, and would involve, if ten additional circuit judges are appointed, an expenditure,
at the present rate of salaries, of not more than $60,000 a year, which would certainly be
small in comparison with the objects to be attained.

The report of the Postmaster-General bears testimony to the general revival of business throughout
the country. The receipts of the Post-Office Department for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1879, were $30,041,982.86, being $764,465.91 more than the revenues of the preceding year.
The amount realized from the sale of postage stamps, stamped envelopes, and postal cards was
$764,465.91 more than in the preceding year, and $2,387,559.23 more than in 1877. The expenditures
of the Department were $33,449,899.45, of which the sum of $376,461.63 was paid on liabilities
incurred in preceding years.

The expenditures during the year were $801,209.77 less than in the preceding year. This reduction
is to be attributed mainly to the operation of the law passed June 17, 1878, changing the compensation
of postmasters from a commission on the value of stamps sold to a commission on stamps canceled.

The amount drawn from the Treasury on appropriations, in addition to the revenues of the Department,
was $3,031,454.96, being $2,276,197.86 less than in the preceding year.

The expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, are estimated at $39,920,900 and
the receipts from all sources at $32,210,000, leaving a deficiency to be appropriated for out
of the Treasury of $7,710,900.

The relations of the Department with railroad companies have been harmonized, notwithstanding
the general reduction by Congress of their compensation by the appropriation for special facilities,
and the railway post-office lines have been greatly extended, especially in the Southern States.
The interests of the Railway Mail Service and of the public would be greatly promoted and the
expenditures could be more readily controlled by the classification of the employees of the
Railway Mail Service as recommended by the Postmaster-General, the appropriation for salaries,
with respect to which the maximum limit is already fixed by law, to be made in gross.

The Postmaster-General recommends an amendment of the law regulating the increase of compensation
for increased service and increased speed on star routes, so as to enable him to advertise
for proposals for such increased service and speed. He also suggests the advantages to accrue
to the commerce of the country from the enactment of a general law authorizing contracts with
American-built steamers, carrying the American flag, for transporting the mail between ports
of the United States and ports of the West Indies and South America, at a fixed maximum price
per mile, the amount to be expended being regulated by annual appropriations, in like manner
with the amount paid for the domestic star service.

The arrangement made by the Postmaster-General and the Secretary of the Treasury for the collection
of duty upon books received in the mail from foreign countries has proved so satisfactory in
its practical operation that the recommendation is now made that Congress shall extend the
provisions of the act of March 3, 1879, under which this arrangement was made, so as to apply
to all other dutiable articles received in the mails from foreign countries.

The reports of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, setting
forth the present state of our relations with the Indian tribes on our territory, the measures
taken to advance their civilization and prosperity, and the progress already achieved by them,
will be found of more than ordinary interest. The general conduct of our Indian population
has been so satisfactory that the occurrence of two disturbances, which resulted in bloodshed
and destruction of property, is all the more to be lamented.

The history of the outbreak on the White River Ute Reservation, in western Colorado, has become
so familiar by elaborate reports in the public press that its remarkable incidents need not
be stated here in detail. It is expected that the settlement of this difficulty will lead to
such arrangements as will prevent further hostile contact between the Indians and the border
settlements in western Colorado.

The other disturbance occurred at the Mescalero Agency, in New Mexico, where Victoria, at the
head of a small band of marauders, after committing many atrocities, being vigorously chased
by a military force, made his way across the Mexican border and is now on foreign soil.

While these occurrences, in which a comparatively small number of Indians were engaged, are
most deplorable, a vast majority of our Indian population have fully justified the expectations
of those who believe that by humane and peaceful influences the Indian can be led to abandon
the habits of savage life and to develop a capacity for useful and civilized occupations. What
they have already accomplished in the pursuit of agricultural and mechanical work, the remarkable
success which has attended the experiment of employing as freighters a class of Indians hitherto
counted among the wildest and most intractable, and the general and urgent desire expressed
by them for the education of their children may be taken as sufficient proof that they will
be found capable of accomplishing much more if they continue to be wisely and fairly guided.
The "Indian policy" sketched in the report of the Secretary of the Interior, the object of
which is to make liberal provision for the education of Indian youth, to settle the Indians
upon farm lots in severalty, to give them title in fee to their farms, inalienable for a certain
number of years, and when their wants are thus provided for to dispose by sale of the lands
on their reservations not occupied and used by them, a fund to be formed out of the proceeds
for the benefit of the Indians, which will gradually relieve the Government of the expenses
now provided for by annual appropriations, must commend itself as just and beneficial to the
Indians, and as also calculated to remove those obstructions which the existence of large reservations
presents to the settlement and development of the country. I therefore earnestly recommend
the enactment of a law enabling the Government to give Indians a title in fee, inalienable
for twenty-five years, to the farm lands assigned to them by allotment. I also repeat the recommendation
made in my first annual message, that a law be passed admitting Indians who can give satisfactory
proof of having by their own labor supported their families for a number of years, and who
are willing to detach themselves from their tribal relations, to the benefit of the homestead
act, and to grant them patents containing the same provision of inalienability for a certain
period. This school has now 158 pupils, selected from various tribes, and is in full operation.
Arrangements are also made for the education of a number of Indian boys and girls belonging
to tribes on the Pacific Slope in a similar manner, at Forest Grove, in Oregon. These institutions
will commend themselves to the liberality of Congress and to the philanthropic munificence
of the American people.

Last spring information was received of the organization of an extensive movement in the Western
States, the object of which was the occupation by unauthorized persons of certain lands in
the Indian Territory ceded by the Cherokees to the Government for the purpose of settlement
by other Indian tribes.

On the 26th of April I issued a proclamation warning all persons against participation in such
an attempt, and by the cooperation of a military force the invasion was promptly checked. It
is my purpose to protect the rights of the Indian inhabitants of that Territory to the full
extent of the executive power; but it would be unwise to ignore the fact that a territory so
large and so fertile, with a population so sparse and with so great a wealth of unused resources,
will be found more exposed to the repetition of such attempts as happened this year when the
surrounding States are more densely settled and the westward movement of our population looks
still more eagerly for fresh lands to occupy. Under such circumstances the difficulty of maintaining
the Indian Territory in its present state will greatly increase, and the Indian tribes inhabiting
it would do well to prepare for such a contingency. I therefore fully approve of the advice
given to them by the Secretary of the Interior on a recent occasion, to divide among themselves
in severalty as large a quantity of their lands as they can cultivate; to acquire individual
title in fee instead of their present tribal ownership in common, and to consider in what manner
the balance of their lands may be disposed of by the Government for their benefit. By adopting
such a policy they would more certainly secure for themselves the value of their possessions,
and at the same time promote their progress in civilization and prosperity, than by endeavoring
to perpetuate the present state of things in the Territory.

The question whether a change in the control of the Indian service should be made was in the
Forty-fifth Congress referred to a joint committee of both Houses for inquiry and report. Since
then, the committee having reported, the question has been decided in the negative by a vote
in the House of Representatives.

For the reasons here stated, and in view of the fact that further uncertainty on this point
will be calculated to obstruct other much-needed legislation, to weaken the discipline of the
service, and to unsettle salutary measures now in progress for the government and improvement
of the Indians, I respectfully recommend that the decision arrived at by Congress at its last
session be permitted to stand.

The efforts made by the Department of the Interior to arrest the depredations on the timber
lands of the United States have been continued, and have met with considerable success. A large
number of cases of trespass have been prosecuted in the courts of the United States; others
have been settled, the trespassers offering to make payment to the Government for the value
of the timber taken by them. The proceeds of these prosecutions and settlements turned into
the Treasury far exceed in amount the sums appropriated by Congress for this purpose. A more
important result, however, consists in the fact that the destruction of our public forests
by depredation, although such cases still occur, has been greatly reduced in extent, and it
is probable that if the present policy is vigorously pursued and sufficient provision to that
end is made by Congress such trespasses, at least those on a large scale, can be entirely suppressed,
except in the Territories, where timber for the daily requirements of the population can not,
under the present state of the law, be otherwise obtained. I therefore earnestly invite the
attention of Congress to the recommendation made by the Secretary of the Interior, that a law
be enacted enabling the Government to sell timber from the public lands without conveying the
fee, where such lands are principally valuable for the timber thereon, such sales to be so
regulated as to conform to domestic wants and business requirements, while at the same time
guarding against a sweeping destruction of the forests. The enactment of such a law appears
to become a more pressing necessity every day.

My recommendations in former messages are renewed in favor of enlarging the facilities of the
Department of Agriculture. Agriculture is the leading interest and the permanent industry of
our people. It is to the abundance of agricultural production, as compared with our home consumption,
and the largely increased and highly profitable market abroad which we have enjoyed in recent
years, that we are mainly indebted for our present prosperity as a people. We must look for
its continued maintenance to the same substantial resource. There is no branch of industry
in which labor, directed by scientific knowledge, yields such increased production in comparison
with unskilled labor, and no branch of the public service to which the encouragement of liberal
appropriations can be more appropriately extended. The omission to render such aid is not a
wise economy, but, on the contrary, undoubtedly results in losses of immense sums annually
that might be saved through well-directed efforts by the Government to promote this vital interest.

The results already accomplished with the very limited means heretofore placed at the command
of the Department of Agriculture is an earnest of what may be expected with increased appropriations
for the several purposes indicated in the report of the Commissioner, with a view to placing
the Department upon a footing which will enable it to prosecute more effectively the objects
for which it is established.

Appropriations are needed for a more complete laboratory, for the establishment of a veterinary
division and a division of forestry, and for an increase of force.

The requirements for these and other purposes, indicated in the report of the Commissioner
under the head of the immediate necessities of the Department, will not involve any expenditure
of money that the country can not with propriety now undertake in the interests of agriculture.

It is gratifying to learn from the Bureau of Education the extent to which educational privileges
throughout the United States have been advanced during the year. No more fundamental responsibility
rests upon Congress than that of devising appropriate measures of financial aid to education,
supplemental to local action in the States and Territories and in the District of Columbia.
The wise forethought of the founders of our Government has not only furnished the basis for
the support of the common-school systems of the newer States, but laid the foundations for
the maintenance of their universities and colleges of agriculture and the mechanic arts. Measures
in accordance with this traditional policy, for the further benefit of all these interests
and the extension of the same advantages to every portion of the country, it is hoped will
receive your favorable consideration.

To preserve and perpetuate the national literature should be among the foremost cares of the
National Legislature. The library gathered at the Capitol still remains unprovided with any
suitable accommodations for its rapidly increasing stores. The magnitude and importance of
the collection, increased as it is by the deposits made under the law of copyright, by domestic
and foreign exchanges, and by the scientific library of the Smithsonian Institution, call for
building accommodations which shall be at once adequate and fireproof. The location of such
a public building, which should provide for the pressing necessities of the present and for
the vast increase of the nation's books in the future, is a matter which addresses itself to
the discretion of Congress. It is earnestly recommended as a measure which should unite all
suffrages and which should no longer be delayed.

The joint commission created by the act of Congress of August 2, 1876, for the purpose of supervising
and directing the completion of the Washington National Monument, of which commission the President
is a member, has given careful attention to this subject, and already the strengthening of
the foundation has so far progressed as to insure the entire success of this part of the work.
A massive layer of masonry has been introduced below the original foundation, widening the
base, increasing the stability of the structure, and rendering it possible to carry the shaft
to completion. It is earnestly recommended that such further appropriations be made for the
continued prosecution of the work as may be necessary for the completion of this national monument
at an early day.

In former messages, impressed with the importance of the subject, I have taken occasion to
commend to Congress the adoption of a generous policy toward the District of Columbia. The
report of the Commissioners of the District, herewith transmitted, contains suggestions and
recommendations, to all of which I earnestly invite your careful attention. I ask your early
and favorable consideration of the views which they express as to the urgent need of legislation
for the reclamation of the marshes of the Potomac and its Eastern Branch within the limits
of the city, and for the repair of the streets of the capital, heretofore laid with wooden
blocks and now by decay rendered almost impassable and a source of imminent danger to the health
of its citizens. The means at the disposal of the Commissioners are wholly inadequate for the
accomplishment of these important works, and should be supplemented by timely appropriations
from the Federal Treasury.

The filling of the flats in front of the city will add to the adjacent lands and parks now
owned by the United States a large and valuable domain, sufficient, it is thought, to reimburse
its entire cost, and will also, as an incidental result, secure the permanent improvement of
the river for the purposes of navigation.

The Constitution having invested Congress with supreme and exclusive jurisdiction over the
District of Columbia, its citizens must of necessity look to Congress alone for all needful
legislation affecting their interests; and as the territory of this District is the common
property of the people of the United States, who equally with its resident citizens are interested
in the prosperity of their capital, I can not doubt that you will be amply sustained by the
general voice of the country in any measures you may adopt for this purpose.

I also invite the favorable consideration of Congress to the wants of the public schools of
this District, as exhibited in the report of the Commissioners. While the number of pupils
is rapidly increasing, no adequate provision exists for a corresponding increase of school
accommodation, and the Commissioners are without the means to meet this urgent need. A number
of the buildings now used for school purposes are rented, and are in important particulars
unsuited for the purpose. The cause of popular education in the District of Columbia is surely
entitled to the same consideration at the hands of the National Government as in the several
States and Territories, to which munificent grants of the public lands have been made for the
endowment of schools and universities.

***

State of the Union Address Rutherford B. Hayes December 6, 1880

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

I congratulate you on the continued and increasing prosperity of our country. By the favor
of Divine Providence we have been blessed during the past year with health, with abundant harvests,
with profitable employment for all our people, and with contentment at home, and with peace
and friendship with other nations. The occurrence of the twenty-fourth election of Chief Magistrate
has afforded another opportunity to the people of the United States to exhibit to the world
a significant example of the peaceful and safe transmission of the power and authority of government
from the public servants whose terms of office are about to expire to their newly chosen successors.
This example can not fail to impress profoundly thoughtful people of other countries with the
advantages which republican institutions afford. The immediate, general, and cheerful acquiescence
of all good citizens in the result of the election gives gratifying assurance to our country
and to its friends throughout the world that a government based on the free consent of an intelligent
and patriotic people possesses elements of strength, stability, and permanency not found in
any other form of government.

Continued opposition to the full and free enjoyment of the rights of citizenship conferred
upon the colored people by the recent amendments to the Constitution still prevails in several
of the late slaveholding States. It has, perhaps, not been manifested in the recent election
to any large extent in acts of violence or intimidation. It has, however, by fraudulent practices
in connection with the ballots, with the regulations as to the places and manner of voting,
and with counting, returning, and canvassing the votes cast, been successful in defeating the
exercise of the right preservative of all rights--the right of suffrage--which the Constitution
expressly confers upon our enfranchised citizens.

It is the desire of the good people of the whole country that sectionalism as a factor in our
politics should disappear. They prefer that no section of the country should be united in solid
opposition to any other section. The disposition to refuse a prompt and hearty obedience to
the equal-rights amendments to the Constitution is all that now stands in the way of a complete
obliteration of sectional lines in our political contests. As long as either of these amendments
is flagrantly violated or disregarded, it is safe to assume that the people who placed them
in the Constitution, as embodying the legitimate results of the war for the Union, and who
believe them to be wise and necessary, will continue to act together and to insist that they
shall be obeyed. The paramount question still is as to the enjoyment of the fight by every
American citizen who has the requisite qualifications to freely cast his vote and to have it
honestly counted. With this question rightly settled, the country will be relieved of the contentions
of the past; bygones will indeed be bygones, and political and party issues, with respect to
economy and efficiency of administration, internal improvements, the tariff, domestic taxation,
education, finance, and other important subjects, will then receive their full share of attention;
but resistance to and nullification of the results of the war will unite together in resolute
purpose for their support all who maintain the authority of the Government and the perpetuity
of the Union, and who adequately appreciate the value of the victory achieved. This determination
proceeds from no hostile sentiment or feeling to any part of the people of our country or to
any of their interests. The inviolability of the amendments rests upon the fundamental principle
of our Government. They are the solemn expression of the will of the people of the United States.

The sentiment that the constitutional rights of all our citizens must be maintained does not
grow weaker. It will continue to control the Government of the country. Happily, the history
of the late election shows that in many parts of the country where opposition to the fifteenth
amendment has heretofore prevailed it is diminishing, and is likely to cease altogether if
firm and well-considered action is taken by Congress. I trust the House of Representatives
and the Senate, which have the right to judge of the elections, returns, and qualifications
of their own members, will see to it that every case of violation of the letter or spirit of
the fifteenth amendment is thoroughly investigated, and that no benefit from such violation
shall accrue to any person or party. It will be the duty of the Executive, with sufficient
appropriations for the purpose, to prosecute unsparingly all who have been engaged in depriving
citizens of the rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution.

It is not, however, to be forgotten that the best and surest guaranty of the primary rights
of citizenship is to be found in that capacity for self-protection which can belong only to
a people whose right to universal suffrage is supported by universal education. The means at
the command of the local and State authorities are in many cases wholly inadequate to furnish
free instruction to all who need it. This is especially true where before emancipation the
education of the people was neglected or prevented, in the interest of slavery. Firmly convinced
that the subject of popular education deserves the earnest attention of the people of the whole
country, with a view to wise and comprehensive action by the Government of the United States,
I respectfully recommend that Congress, by suitable legislation and with proper safeguards,
supplement the local educational funds in the several States where the grave duties and responsibilities
of citizenship have been devolved on uneducated people by devoting to the purpose grants of
the public lands and, if necessary, by appropriations from the Treasury of the United States.
Whatever Government can fairly do to promote free popular education ought to be done. Wherever
general education is found, peace, virtue, and social order prevail and civil and religious
liberty are secure.

In my former annual messages I have asked the attention of Congress to the urgent necessity
of a reformation of the civil-service system of the Government. My views concerning the dangers
of patronage, or appointments for personal or partisan considerations, have been strengthened
by my observation and experience in the Executive office, and I believe these dangers threaten
the stability of the Government. Abuses so serious in their nature can not be permanently tolerated.
They tend to become more alarming with the enlargement of administrative service, as the growth
of the country in population increases the number of officers and placemen employed.

The reasons are imperative for the adoption of fixed rules for the regulation of appointments,
promotions, and removals, establishing a uniform method having exclusively in view in every
instance the attainment of the best qualifications for the position in question. Such a method
alone is consistent with the equal rights of all citizens and the most economical and efficient
administration of the public business.

Competitive examinations in aid of impartial appointments and promotions have been conducted
for some years past in several of the Executive Departments, and by my direction this system
has been adopted in the custom-houses and post-offices of the larger cities of the country.
In the city of New York over 2,000 positions in the civil service have been subject in their
appointments and tenure of place to the operation of published rules for this purpose during
the past two years. The results of these practical trials have been very satisfactory, and
have confirmed my opinion in favor of this system of selection. All are subjected to the same
tests, and the result is free from prejudice by personal favor or partisan influence. It secures
for the position applied for the best qualifications attainable among the competing applicants.
It is an effectual protection from the pressure of importunity, which under any other course
pursued largely exacts the time and attention of appointing officers, to their great detriment
in the discharge of other official duties preventing the abuse of the service for the mere
furtherance of private or party purposes, and leaving the employee of the Government, freed
from the obligations imposed by patronage, to depend solely upon merit for retention and advancement,
and with this constant incentive to exertion and improvement.

These invaluable results have been attained in a high degree in the offices where the rules
for appointment by competitive examination have been applied.

A method which has so approved itself by experimental tests at points where such tests may
be fairly considered conclusive should be extended to all subordinate positions under the Government.
I believe that a strong and growing public sentiment demands immediate measures for securing
and enforcing the highest possible efficiency in the civil service and its protection from
recognized abuses, and that the experience referred to has demonstrated the feasibility of
such measures.

The examinations in the custom-houses and post-offices have been held under many embarrassments
and without provision for compensation for the extra labor performed by the officers who have
conducted them, and whose commendable interest in the improvement of the public service has
induced this devotion of time and labor without pecuniary reward. A continuance of these labors
gratuitously ought not to be expected, and without an appropriation by Congress for compensation
it is not practicable to extend the system of examinations generally throughout the civil service.
It is also highly important that all such examinations should be conducted upon a uniform system
and under general supervision. Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes authorizes the President
to prescribe the regulations for admission to the civil service of the United States, and for
this purpose to employ suitable persons to conduct the requisite inquiries with reference to
"the fitness of each candidate, in respect to age, health, character, knowledge, and ability
for the branch of service into which he seeks to enter;" but the law is practically inoperative
for want of the requisite appropriation.

I therefore recommend an appropriation of $25,000 per annum to meet the expenses of a commission,
to be appointed by the President in accordance with the terms of this section, whose duty it
shall be to devise a just, uniform, and efficient system of competitive examinations and to
supervise the application of the same throughout the entire civil service of the Government.
I am persuaded that the facilities which such a commission will afford for testing the fitness
of those who apply for office will not only be as welcome a relief to members of Congress as
it will be to the President and heads of Departments, but that it will also greatly tend to
remove the causes of embarrassment which now inevitably and constantly attend the conflicting
claims of patronage between the legislative and executive departments. The most effectual check
upon the pernicious competition of influence and official favoritism in the bestowal of office
will be the substitution of an open competition of merit between the applicants, in which everyone
can make his own record with the assurance that his success will depend upon this alone.

I also recommend such legislation as, while leaving every officer as free as any other citizen
to express his political opinions and to use his means for their advancement, shall also enable
him to feel as safe as any private citizen in refusing all demands upon his salary for political
purposes. A law which should thus guarantee true liberty and justice to all who are engaged
in the public service, and likewise contain stringent provisions against the use of official
authority to coerce the political action of private citizens or of official subordinates, is
greatly to be desired.

The most serious obstacle, however, to an improvement of the civil service, and especially
to a reform in the method of appointment and removal, has been found to be the practice, under
what is known as the spoils system, by which the appointing power has been so largely encroached
upon by members of Congress. The first step in the reform of the civil service must be a complete
divorce between Congress and the Executive in the matter of appointments. The corrupting doctrine
that "to the victors belong the spoils" is inseparable from Congressional patronage as the
established rule and practice of parties in power. It comes to be understood by applicants
for office and by the people generally that Representatives and Senators are entitled to disburse
the patronage of their respective districts and States. It is not necessary to recite at length
the evils resulting from this invasion of the Executive functions. The true principles of Government
on the subject of appointments to office, as stated in the national conventions of the leading
parties of the country, have again and again been approved by the American people, and have
not been called in question in any quarter. These authentic expressions of public opinion upon
this all-important subject are the statement of principles that belong to the constitutional
structure of the Government. Under the Constitution the President and heads of Departments
are to make nominations for office. The Senate is to advise and consent to appointments, and
the House of Representatives is to accuse and prosecute faithless officers. The best interest
of the public service demands that these distinctions be respected; that Senators and Representatives,
who may be judges and accusers, should not dictate appointments to office. To this end the
cooperation of the legislative department of the Government is required alike by the necessities
of the case and by public opinion. Members of Congress will not be relieved from the demands
made upon them with reference to appointments to office until by legislative enactment the
pernicious practice is condemned and forbidden.

It is therefore recommended that an act be passed defining the relations of members of Congress
with respect to appointment to office by the President; and I also recommend that the provisions
of section 1767 and of the sections following of the Revised Statutes, comprising the tenure-of-office
act of March 2, 1867, be repealed.

Believing that to reform the system and methods of the civil service in our country is one
of the highest and most imperative duties of statesmanship, and that it can be permanently
done only by the cooperation of the legislative and executive departments of the Government,
I again commend the whole subject to your considerate attention.

It is the recognized duty and purpose of the people of the United States to suppress polygamy
where it now exists in our Territories and to prevent its extension. Faithful and zealous efforts
have been made by the United States authorities in Utah to enforce the laws against it. Experience
has shown that the legislation upon this subject, to be effective, requires extensive modification
and amendment. The longer action is delayed the more difficult it will be to accomplish what
is desired. Prompt and decided measures are necessary. The Mormon sectarian organization which
upholds polygamy has the whole power of making and executing the local legislation of the Territory.
By its control of the grand and petit juries it possesses large influence over the administration
of justice. Exercising, as the heads of this sect do, the local political power of the Territory,
they are able to make effective their hostility to the law of Congress on the subject of polygamy,
and, in fact, do prevent its enforcement. Polygamy will not be abolished if the enforcement
of the law depends on those who practice and uphold the crime. It can only be suppressed by
taking away the political power of the sect which encourages and sustains it.

The power of Congress to enact suitable laws to protect the Territories is ample. It is not
a case for halfway measures. The political power of the Mormon sect is increasing. It controls
now one of our wealthiest and most populous Territories. It is extending steadily into other
Territories. Wherever it goes it establishes polygamy and sectarian political power. The sanctity
of marriage and the family relation are the corner stone of our American society and civilization.
Religious liberty and the separation of church and state are among the elementary ideas of
free institutions. To reestablish the interests and principles which polygamy and Mormonism
have imperiled, and to fully reopen to intelligent and virtuous immigrants of all creeds that
part of our domain which has been in a great degree closed to general immigration by intolerant
and immoral institutions, it is recommended that the government of the Territory of Utah be
reorganized.

I recommend that Congress provide for the government of Utah by a governor and judges, or commissioners,
appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate--a government analogous to the provisional
government established for the territory northwest of the Ohio by the ordinance of 1787. If,
however, it is deemed best to continue the existing form of local government, I recommend that
the right to vote, hold office, and sit on juries in the Territory of Utah be confined to those
who neither practice nor uphold polygamy. If thorough measures are adopted, it is believed
that within a few years the evils which now afflict Utah will be eradicated, and that this
Territory will in good time become one of the most prosperous and attractive of the new States
of the Union.

Our relations with all foreign countries have been those of undisturbed peace, and have presented
no occasion for concern as to their continued maintenance.

My anticipation of an early reply from the British Government to the demand of indemnity to
our fishermen for the injuries suffered by that industry at Fortune Bay in January, 1878, which
I expressed in my last annual message, was disappointed. This answer was received only in the
latter part of April in the present year, and when received exhibited a failure of accord between
the two Governments as to the measure of the inshore fishing privilege secured to our fishermen
by the treaty of Washington of so serious a character that I made it the subject of a communication
to Congress, in which I recommended the adoption of the measures which seemed to me proper
to be taken by this Government in maintenance of the rights accorded to our fishermen under
the treaty and toward securing an indemnity for the injury these interests had suffered. A
bill to carry out these recommendations was under consideration by the House of Representatives
at the time of the adjournment of Congress in June last.

Within a few weeks I have received a communication from Her Majesty's Government renewing the
consideration of the subject, both of the indemnity for the injuries at Fortune Bay and of
the interpretation of the treaty in which the previous correspondence had shown the two Governments
to be at variance. Upon both these topics the disposition toward a friendly agreement is manifested
by a recognition of our right to an indemnity for the transaction at Fortune Bay, leaving the
measure of such indemnity to further conference, and by an assent to the view of this Government,
presented in the previous correspondence, that the regulation of conflicting interests of the
shore fishery of the provincial seacoasts and the vessel fishery of our fishermen should be
made the subject of conference and concurrent arrangement between the two Governments.

I sincerely hope that the basis may be found for a speedy adjustment of the very serious divergence
of views in the interpretation of the fishery clauses of the treaty of Washington, which, as
the correspondence between the two Governments stood at the close of the last session of Congress,
seemed to be irreconcilable.

In the important exhibition of arts and industries which was held last year at Sydney, New
South Wales, as well as in that now in progress at Melbourne, the United States have been efficiently
and honorably represented. The exhibitors from this country at the former place received a
large number of awards in some of the most considerable departments, and the participation
of the United States was recognized by a special mark of distinction. In the exhibition at
Melbourne the share taken by our country is no less notable, and an equal degree of success
is confidently expected.

The state of peace and tranquillity now enjoyed by all the nations of the continent of Europe
has its favorable influence upon our diplomatic and commercial relations with them. We have
concluded and ratified a convention with the French Republic for the settlement of claims of
the citizens of either country against the other. Under this convention a commission, presided
over by a distinguished publicist, appointed in pursuance of the request of both nations by
His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil, has been organized and has begun its sessions in this city.
A congress to consider means for the protection of industrial property has recently been in
session in Paris, to which I have appointed the ministers of the United States in France and
in Belgium as delegates. The International Commission upon Weights and Measures also continues
its work in Paris. I invite your attention to the necessity of an appropriation to be made
in time to enable this Government to comply with its obligations under the metrical convention.

Our friendly relations with the German Empire continue without interruption. At the recent
International Exhibition of Fish and Fisheries at Berlin the participation of the United States,
notwithstanding the haste with which the commission was forced to make its preparations, was
extremely successful and meritorious, winning for private exhibitors numerous awards of a high
class and for the country at large the principal prize of honor offered by His Majesty the
Emperor. The results of this great success can not but be advantageous to this important and
growing industry. There have been some questions raised between the two Governments as to the
proper effect and interpretation of our treaties of naturalization, but recent dispatches from
our minister at Berlin show that favorable progress is making toward an understanding in accordance
with the views of this Government, which makes and admits no distinction whatever between the
rights of a native and a naturalized citizen of the United States. In practice the complaints
of molestation suffered by naturalized citizens abroad have never been fewer than at present.

There is nothing of importance to note in our unbroken friendly relations with the Governments
of Austria-Hungary, Russia, Portugal, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, and Greece.

During the last summer several vessels belonging to the merchant marine of this country, sailing
in neutral waters of the West Indies, were fired at, boarded, and searched by an armed cruiser
of the Spanish Government. The circumstances as reported involve not only a private injury
to the persons concerned, but also seemed too little observant of the friendly relations existing
for a century between this country and Spain. The wrong was brought to the attention of the
Spanish Government in a serious protest and remonstrance, and the matter is undergoing investigation
by the royal authorities with a view to such explanation or reparation as may be called for
by the facts.

The commission sitting in this city for the adjudication of claims of our citizens against
the Government of Spain is, I hope, approaching the termination of its labors.

The claims against the United States under the Florida treaty with Spain were submitted to
Congress for its action at the late session, and I again invite your attention to this long-standing
question, with a view to a final disposition of the matter.

At the invitation of the Spanish Government, a conference has recently been held at the city
of Madrid to consider the subject of protection by foreign powers of native Moors in the Empire
of Morocco. The minister of the United States in Spain was directed to take part in the deliberations
of this conference, the result of which is a convention signed on behalf of all the powers
represented. The instrument will be laid before the Senate for its consideration. The Government
of the United States has also lost no opportunity to urge upon that of the Emperor of Morocco
the necessity, in accordance with the humane and enlightened spirit of the age, of putting
an end to the persecutions, which have been so prevalent in that country, of persons of a faith
other than the Moslem, and especially of the Hebrew residents of Morocco.

The consular treaty concluded with Belgium has not yet been officially promulgated, owing to
the alteration of a word in the text by the Senate of the United States, which occasioned a
delay, during which the time allowed for ratification expired. The Senate will be asked to
extend the period for ratification.

The attempt to negotiate a treaty of extradition with Denmark failed on account of the objection
of the Danish Government to the usual clause providing that each nation should pay the expense
of the arrest of the persons whose extradition it asks.

The provision made by Congress at its last session for the expense of the commission which
had been appointed to enter upon negotiations with the Imperial Government of China on subjects
of great interest to the relations of the two countries enabled the commissioners to proceed
at once upon their mission. The Imperial Government was prepared to give prompt and respectful
attention to the matters brought under negotiation, and the conferences proceeded with such
rapidity and success that on the 17th of November last two treaties were signed at Peking,
one relating to the introduction of Chinese into this country and one relating to commerce.
Mr. Trescot, one of the commissioners, is now on his way home bringing the treaties, and it
is expected that they will be received in season to be laid before the Senate early in January.

Our minister in Japan has negotiated a convention for the reciprocal relief of shipwrecked
seamen. I take occasion to urge once more upon Congress the propriety of making provision for
the erection of suitable fireproof buildings at the Japanese capital for the use of the American
legation and the court-house and jail connected with it. The Japanese Government, with great
generosity and courtesy, has offered for this purpose an eligible piece of land.

In my last annual message I invited the attention of Congress to the subject of the indemnity
funds received some years ago from China and Japan. I renew the recommendation then made that
whatever portions of these funds are due to American citizens should be promptly paid and the
residue returned to the nations, respectively, to which they justly and equitably belong.

The extradition treaty with the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Which has been for some time in
course of negotiation, has during the past year been concluded and duly ratified.

Relations of friendship and amity have been established between the Government of the United
States and that of Roumania. We have sent a diplomatic representative to Bucharest, and have
received at this capital the special envoy who has been charged by His Royal Highness Prince
Charles to announce the independent sovereignty of Roumania. We hope for a speedy development
of commercial relations between the two countries.

In my last annual message I expressed the hope that the prevalence of quiet on the border between
this country and Mexico would soon become so assured as to justify the modification of the
orders then in force to our military commanders in regard to crossing the frontier, without
encouraging such disturbances as would endanger the peace of the two countries. Events moved
in accordance with these expectations, and the orders were accordingly withdrawn, to the entire
satisfaction of our own citizens and the Mexican Government. Subsequently the peace of the
border was again disturbed by a savage foray under the command of the Chief Victoria, but by
the combined and harmonious action of the military forces of both countries his band has been
broken up and substantially destroyed.

There is reason to believe that the obstacles which have so long prevented rapid and convenient
communication between the United States and Mexico by railways are on the point of disappearing,
and that several important enterprises of this character will soon be set on foot, which can
not fail to contribute largely to the prosperity of both countries.

New envoys from Guatemala, Colombia, Bolivia, Venezuela, and Nicaragua have recently arrived
at this capital, whose distinction and enlightenment afford the best guaranty of the continuance
of friendly relations between ourselves and these sister Republics.

The relations between this Government and that of the United States of Colombia have engaged
public attention during the past year, mainly by reason of the project of an interoceanic canal
across the Isthmus of Panama, to be built by private capital under a concession from the Colombian
Government for that purpose. The treaty obligations subsisting between the United States and
Colombia, by which we guarantee the neutrality of the transit and the sovereignty and property
of Colombia in the Isthmus, make it necessary that the conditions under which so stupendous
a change in the region embraced in this guaranty should be effected--transforming, as it would,
this Isthmus from a barrier between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans into a gateway and thoroughfare
between them for the navies and the merchant ships of the world--should receive the approval
of this Government, as being compatible with the discharge of these obligations on our part
and consistent with our interests as the principal commercial power of the Western Hemisphere.
The views which I expressed in a special message to Congress in March last in relation to this
project I deem it my duty again to press upon your attention. Subsequent consideration has
but confirmed the opinion "that it is the right and duty of the United States to assert and
maintain such supervision and authority over any interoceanic canal across the isthmus that
connects North and South America as will protect our national interest."

The war between the Republic of Chile on the one hand and the allied Republics of Peru and
Bolivia on the other still continues. This Government has not felt called upon to interfere
in a contest that is within the belligerent rights of the parties as independent states. We
have, however, always held ourselves in readiness to aid in accommodating their difference,
and have at different times reminded both belligerents of our willingness to render such service.

Our good offices in this direction were recently accepted by all the belligerents, and it was
hoped they would prove efficacious; but I regret to announce that the measures which the ministers
of the United States at Santiago and Lima were authorized to take with the view to bring about
a peace were not successful. In the course of the war some questions have arisen affecting
neutral rights. In all of these the ministers of the United States have, under their instructions,
acted with promptness and energy in protection of American interests.

The relations of the United States with the Empire of Brazil continue to be most cordial, and
their commercial intercourse steadily increases, to their mutual advantage.

The internal disorders with which the Argentine Republic has for some time past been afflicted,
and which have more or less influenced its external trade, are understood to have been brought
to a close. This happy result may be expected to redound to the benefit of the foreign commerce
of that Republic, as well as to the development of its vast interior resources.

In Samoa the Government of King Malietoa, under the support and recognition of the consular
representatives of the United States, Great Britain, and Germany, seems to have given peace
and tranquillity to the islands. While it does not appear desirable to adopt as a whole the
scheme of tripartite local government which has been proposed, the common interests of the
three great treaty powers require harmony in their relations to the native frame of government,
and this may be best secured by a simple diplomatic agreement between them. It would be well
if the consular jurisdiction of our representative at Apia were increased in extent and importance
so as to guard American interests in the surrounding and outlying islands of Oceanica.

The obelisk generously presented by the Khedive of Egypt to the city of New York has safely
arrived in this country, and will soon be erected in that metropolis. A commission for the
liquidation of the Egyptian debt has lately concluded its work, and this Government, at the
earnest solicitation of the Khedive, has acceded to the provisions adopted by it, which will
be laid before Congress for its information. A commission for the revision of the judicial
code of the reform tribunal of Egypt is now in session in Cairo. Mr. Farman, consul-general,
and J. M. Batchelder, esq., have been appointed as commissioners to participate in this work.
The organization of the reform tribunals will probably be continued for another period of five
years.

In pursuance of the act passed at the last session of Congress, invitations have been extended
to foreign maritime states to join in a sanitary conference in Washington, beginning the 1st
of January. The acceptance of this invitation by many prominent powers gives promise of success
in this important measure, designed to establish a system of international notification by
which the spread of infectious or epidemic diseases may be more effectively checked or prevented.
The attention of Congress is invited to the necessary appropriations for carrying into effect
the provisions of the act referred to.

The efforts of the Department of State to enlarge the trade and commerce of the United States,
through the active agency of consular officers and through the dissemination of information
obtained from them, have been unrelaxed. The interest in these efforts, as developed in our
commercial communities, and the value of the information secured by this means to the trade
and manufactures of the country were recognized by Congress at its last session, and provision
was made for the more frequent publication of consular and other reports by the Department
of State. The first issue of this publication has now been prepared, and subsequent issues
may regularly be expected. The importance and interest attached to the reports of consular
officers are witnessed by the general demand for them by all classes of merchants and manufacturers
engaged in our foreign trade. It is believed that the system of such publications is deserving
of the approval of Congress, and that the necessary appropriations for its continuance and
enlargement will commend itself to your consideration.

The prosperous energies of our domestic industries and their immense production of the subjects
of foreign commerce invite, and even require, an active development of the wishes and interests
of our people in that direction. Especially important is it that our commercial relations with
the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of South America, with the West Indies and the Gulf of Mexico,
should be direct, and not through the circuit of European systems, and should be carried on
in our own bottoms. The full appreciation of the opportunities which our front on the Pacific
Ocean gives to commerce with Japan, China, and the East Indies, with Australia and the island
groups which lie along these routes of navigation, should inspire equal efforts to appropriate
to our own shipping and to administer by our own capital a due proportion of this trade. Whatever
modifications of our regulations of trade and navigation may be necessary or useful to meet
and direct these impulses to the enlargement of our exchanges and of our carrying trade I am
sure the wisdom of Congress will be ready to supply. One initial measure, however, seems to
me so dearly useful and efficient that I venture to press it upon your earnest attention. It
seems to be very evident that the provision of regular steam postal communication by aid from
government has been the forerunner of the commercial predominance of Great Britain on all these
coasts and seas, a greater share in whose trade is now the desire and the intent of our people.
It is also manifest that the efforts of other European nations to contend with Great Britain
for a share of this commerce have been successful in proportion with their adoption of regular
steam postal communication with the markets whose trade they sought. Mexico and the States
of South America are anxious to receive such postal communication with this country and to
aid in their development. Similar cooperation may be looked for in due time from the Eastern
nations and from Australia. It is difficult to see how the lead in this movement can be expected
from private interests. In respect of foreign commerce quite as much as in internal trade postal
communication seems necessarily a matter of common and public administration, and thus pertaining
to Government. I respectfully recommend to your prompt attention such just and efficient measures
as may conduce to the development of our foreign commercial exchanges and the building up of
our carrying trade.

In this connection I desire also to suggest the very great service which might be expected
in enlarging and facilitating our commerce on the Pacific Ocean were a transmarine cable laid
from San Francisco to the Sandwich Islands, and thence to Japan at the north and Australia
at the south. The great influence of such means of communication on these routes of navigation
in developing and securing the due share of our Pacific Coast in the commerce of the world
needs no illustration or enforcement. It may be that such an enterprise, useful, and in the
end profitable, as it would prove to private investment, may need to be accelerated by prudent
legislation by Congress in its aid, and I submit the matter to your careful consideration.

An additional and not unimportant, although secondary, reason for fostering and enlarging the
Navy may be found in the unquestionable service to the expansion of our commerce which would
be rendered by the frequent circulation of naval ships in the seas and ports of all quarters
of the globe. Ships of the proper construction and equipment to be of the greatest efficiency
in case of maritime war might be made constant and active agents in time of peace in the advancement
and protection of our foreign trade and in the nurture and discipline of young seamen, who
would naturally in some numbers mix with and improve the crews of our merchant ships. Our merchants
at home and abroad recognize the value to foreign commerce of an active movement of our naval
vessels, and the intelligence and patriotic zeal of our naval officers in promoting every interest
of their countrymen is a just subject of national pride.

The condition of the financial affairs of the Government, as shown by the report of the Secretary
of the Treasury, is very satisfactory. It is believed that the present financial situation
of the United States, whether considered with respect to trade, currency, credit, growing wealth,
or the extent and variety of our resources, is more favorable than that of any other country
of our time, and has never been surpassed by that of any country at any period of its history.
All our industries are thriving; the rate of interest is low; new railroads are being constructed;
a vast immigration is increasing our population, capital, and labor; new enterprises in great
number are in progress, and our commercial relations with other countries are improving. We
might else recall with unalloyed content the rare prosperity with which throughout the year
the nation has been blessed. Its harvests have been plenteous; its varied industries have thriven;
the health of its people has been preserved; it has maintained with foreign governments the
undisturbed relations of amity and peace. For these manifestations of His favor we owe to Him
who holds our destiny in His hands the tribute of our grateful devotion.

To that mysterious exercise of His will which has taken from us the loved and illustrious citizen
who was but lately the head of the nation we bow in sorrow and submission.

The memory of his exalted character, of his noble achievements, and of his patriotic life will
be treasured forever as a sacred possession of the whole people.

The announcement of his death drew from foreign governments and peoples tributes of sympathy
and sorrow which history will record as signal tokens of the kinship of nations and the federation
of mankind.

The feeling of good will between our own Government and that of Great Britain was never more
marked than at present. In recognition of this pleasing fact I directed, on the occasion of
the late centennial celebration at Yorktown, that a salute be given to the British flag.

Save for the correspondence to which I shall refer hereafter in relation to the proposed canal
across the Isthmus of Panama, little has occurred worthy of mention in the diplomatic relations
of the two countries.

Early in the year the Fortune Bay claims were satisfactorily settled by the British Government
paying in full the sum of 15,000 pounds, most of which has been already distributed. As the
terms of the settlement included compensation for injuries suffered by our fishermen at Aspee
Bay, there has been retained from the gross award a sum which is deemed adequate for those claims.

The participation of Americans in the exhibitions at Melbourne and Sydney will be approvingly
mentioned in the reports of the two exhibitions, soon to be presented to Congress. They will
disclose the readiness of our countrymen to make successful competition in distant fields of
enterprise.

Negotiations for an international copyright convention are in hopeful progress.

The surrender of Sitting Bull and his forces upon the Canadian frontier has allayed apprehension,
although bodies of British Indians still cross the border in quest of sustenance. Upon this
subject a correspondence has been opened which promises an adequate understanding. Our troops
have orders to avoid meanwhile all collisions with alien Indians.

The presence at the Yorktown celebration of representatives of the French Republic and descendants
of Lafayette and of his gallant compatriots who were our allies in the Revolution has served
to strengthen the spirit of good will which has always existed between the two nations.

You will be furnished with the proceedings of the Bimetallic Conference held during the summer
at the city of Paris. No accord was reached, but a valuable interchange of views was had, and
the conference will next year be renewed.

At the Electrical Exhibition and Congress, also held at Paris, this country was creditably
represented by eminent specialists, who, in the absence of an appropriation, generously lent
their efficient aid at the instance of the State Department. While our exhibitors in this almost
distinctively American field of achievement have won several valuable awards, I recommend that
Congress provide for the repayment of the personal expenses incurred in the public interest
by the honorary commissioners and delegates.

No new questions respecting the status of our naturalized citizens in Germany have arisen during
the year, and the causes of complaint, especially in Alsace and Lorraine, have practically
ceased through the liberal action of the Imperial Government in accepting our often-expressed
views on the subject. The application of the treaty of 1868 to the lately acquired Rhenish
provinces has received very earnest attention, and a definite and lasting agreement on this
point is confidently expected. The participation of the descendants of Baron von Steuben in
the Yorktown festivities, and their subsequent reception by their American kinsmen, strikingly
evinced the ties of good will which unite the German people and our own.

Our intercourse with Spain has been friendly. An agreement concluded in February last fixes
a term for the labors of the Spanish and American Claims Commission. The Spanish Government
has been requested to pay the late awards of that Commission, and will, it is believed, accede
to the request as promptly and courteously as on former occasions.

By recent legislation onerous fines have been imposed upon American shipping in Spanish and
colonial ports for slight irregularities in manifests. One case of hardship is specially worthy
of attention. The bark Masonic, bound for Japan, entered Manila in distress, and is there sought
to be confiscated under Spanish revenue laws for an alleged shortage in her transshipped cargo.
Though efforts for her relief have thus far proved unavailing, it is expected that the whole
matter will be adjusted in a friendly spirit.

The Senate resolutions of condolence on the assassination of the Czar Alexander II were appropriately
communicated to the Russian Government, which in turn has expressed its sympathy in our late
national bereavement. It is desirable that our cordial relations with Russia should be strengthened
by proper engagements assuring to peaceable Americans who visit the Empire the consideration
which is due to them as citizens of a friendly state. This is especially needful with respect
to American Israelites, whose classification with the native Hebrews has evoked energetic remonstrances
from this Government.

A supplementary consular agreement with Italy has been sanctioned and proclaimed, which puts
at rest conflicts of jurisdiction in the case of crimes on shipboard.

Several important international conferences have been held in Italy during the year. At the
Geographical Congress of Venice, the Beneficence Congress of Milan, and the Hygienic Congress
of Turin this country was represented by delegates from branches of the public service or by
private citizens duly accredited in an honorary capacity. It is hoped that Congress will give
such prominence to the results of their participation as they may seem to deserve.

The abolition of all discriminating duties against such colonial productions of the Dutch East
Indies as are imported hither from Holland has been already considered by Congress. I trust
that at the present session the matter may be favorably concluded.

The insecurity of life and property in many parts of Turkey has given rise to correspondence
with the Porte looking particularly to the better protection of American missionaries in the
Empire. The condemned murderer of the eminent missionary Dr. Justin W. Parsons has not yet
been executed, although this Government has repeatedly demanded that exemplary justice be done.

The Swiss Government has again solicited the good offices of our diplomatic and consular agents
for the protection of its citizens in countries where it is not itself represented. This request
has, within proper limits, been granted.

Our agents in Switzerland have been instructed to protest against the conduct of the authorities
of certain communes in permitting the emigration to this country of criminals and other objectionable
persons. Several such persons, through the cooperation of the commissioners of emigration at
New York, have been sent back by the steamers which brought them. A continuance of this course
may prove a more effectual remedy than diplomatic remonstrance.

Treaties of commerce and navigation and for the regulation of consular privileges have been
concluded with Roumania and Servia since their admission into the family of European States.

As is natural with contiguous states having like institutions and like aims of advancement
and development, the friendship of the United States and Mexico has been constantly maintained.
This Government has lost no occasion of encouraging the Mexican Government to a beneficial
realization of the mutual advantages which will result from more intimate commercial intercourse
and from the opening of the rich interior of Mexico to railway enterprise. I deem it important
that means be provided to restrain the lawlessness unfortunately so common on the frontier
and to suppress the forays of the reservation Indians on either side of the Rio Grande.

The neighboring States of Central America have preserved internal peace, and their outward
relations toward us have been those of intimate friendship. There are encouraging signs of
their growing disposition to subordinate their local interests to those which are common to
them by reason of their geographical relations.

The boundary dispute between Guatemala and Mexico has afforded this Government an opportunity
to exercise its good offices for preventing a rupture between those States and for procuring
a peaceable solution of the question. I cherish strong hope that in view of our relations of
amity with both countries our friendly counsels may prevail.

A special envoy of Guatemala has brought to me the condolences of his Government and people
on the death of President Garfield.

The Costa Rican Government lately framed an engagement with Colombia for settling by arbitration
the boundary question between those countries, providing that the post of arbitrator should
be offered successively to the King of the Belgians, the King of Spain, and the President of
the Argentine Confederation. The King of the Belgians has declined to act, but I am not as
yet advised of the action of the King of Spain. As we have certain interests in the disputed
territory which are protected by our treaty engagements with one of the parties, it is important
that the arbitration should not without our consent affect our rights, and this Government
has accordingly thought proper to make its views known to the parties to the agreement, as
well as to intimate them to the Belgian and Spanish Governments.

The questions growing out of the proposed interoceanic waterway across the Isthmus of Panama
are of grave national importance. This Government has not been unmindful of the solemn obligations
imposed upon it by its compact of 1846 with Colombia, as the independent and sovereign mistress
of the territory crossed by the canal, and has sought to render them effective by fresh engagements
with the Colombian Republic looking to their practical execution. The negotiations to this
end, after they had reached what appeared to be a mutually satisfactory solution here, were
met in Colombia by a disavowal of the powers which its envoy had assumed and by a proposal
for renewed negotiation on a modified basis.

Meanwhile this Government learned that Colombia had proposed to the European powers to join
in a guaranty of the neutrality of the proposed Panama canal--a guaranty which would be in
direct contravention of our obligation as the sole guarantor of the integrity of Colombian
territory and of the neutrality of the canal itself. My lamented predecessor felt it his duty
to place before the European powers the reasons which make the prior guaranty of the United
States indispensable, and for which the interjection of any foreign guaranty might be regarded
as a superfluous and unfriendly act.

Foreseeing the probable reliance of the British Government on the provisions of the Clayton-Bulwer
treaty of 1850 as affording room for a share in the guaranties which the United States covenanted
with Colombia four years before, I have not hesitated to supplement the action of my predecessor
by proposing to Her Majesty's Government the modification of that instrument and the abrogation
of such clauses thereof as do not comport with the obligations of the United States toward
Colombia or with the vital needs of the two friendly parties to the compact.

This Government sees with great concern the continuance of the hostile relations between Chile,
Bolivia, and Peru. An early peace between these Republics is much to be desired, not only that
they may themselves be spared further misery and bloodshed, but because their continued antagonism
threatens consequences which are, in my judgment, dangerous to the interests of republican
government on this continent and calculated to destroy the best elements of our free and peaceful
civilization.

As in the present excited condition of popular feeling in these countries there has been serious
misapprehension of the position of the United States, and as separate diplomatic intercourse
with each through independent ministers is sometimes subject, owing to the want of prompt reciprocal
communication, to temporary misunderstanding, I have deemed it judicious at the present time
to send a special envoy accredited to all and each of them, and furnished with general instructions
which will, I trust, enable him to bring these powers into friendly relations.

The Government of Venezuela maintains its attitude of warm friendship and continues with great
regularity its payment of the monthly quota of the diplomatic debt. Without suggesting the
direction in which Congress should act, I ask its attention to the pending questions affecting
the distribution of the sums thus far received.

The relations between Venezuela and France growing out of the same debt have been for some
time past in an unsatisfactory state, and this Government, as the neighbor and one of the largest
creditors of Venezuela, has interposed its influence with the French Government with the view
of producing a friendly and honorable adjustment.

I regret that the commercial interests between the United States and Brazil, from which great
advantages were hoped a year ago, have suffered from the withdrawal of the American lines of
communication between the Brazilian ports and our own.

Through the efforts of our minister resident at Buenos Ayres and the United States minister
at Santiago, a treaty has been concluded between the Argentine Republic and Chile, disposing
of the long-pending Patagonian boundary question. It is a matter of congratulation that our
Government has been afforded the opportunity of successfully exerting its good influence for
the prevention of disagreements between these Republics of the American continent.

I am glad to inform you that the treaties lately negotiated with China have been duly ratified
on both sides and the exchange made at Peking. Legislation is necessary to carry their provisions
into effect. The prompt and friendly spirit with which the Chinese Government, at the request
of the United States, conceded the modification of existing treaties should secure careful
regard for the interests and susceptibilities of that Government in the enactment of any laws
relating to Chinese immigration.

Those clauses of the treaties which forbid the participation of citizens or vessels of the
United States in the opium trade will doubtless receive your approval. They will attest the
sincere interest which our people and Government feel in the commendable efforts of the Chinese
Government to put a stop to this demoralizing and destructive traffic.

In relation both to China and Japan some changes are desirable in our present system of consular
jurisdiction. I hope at some future time to lay before you a scheme for its improvement in
the entire East.

The intimacy between our own country and Japan, the most advanced of the Eastern nations, continues
to be cordial. I am advised that the Emperor contemplates the establishment of full constitutional
government, and that he has already summoned a parliamentary congress for the purpose of effecting
the change. Such a remarkable step toward complete assimilation with the Western system can
not fail to bring Japan into closer and more beneficial relationship with ourselves as the
chief Pacific power.

A question has arisen in relation to the exercise in that country of the judicial functions
conferred upon our ministers and consuls. The indictment, trial, and conviction in the consular
court at Yokohama of John Ross, a merchant seaman on board an American vessel, have made it
necessary for the Government to institute a careful examination into the nature and methods
of this jurisdiction.

It appeared that Ross was regularly shipped under the flag of the United States, but was by
birth a British subject. My predecessor felt it his duty to maintain the position that during
his service as a regularly shipped seaman on board an American merchant vessel Ross was subject
to the laws of that service and to the jurisdiction of the United States consular authorities.

I renew the recommendation which has been heretofore urged by the Executive upon the attention
of Congress, that after the deduction of such amount as may be found due to American citizens
the balance of the indemnity funds heretofore obtained from China and Japan, and which are
now in the hands of the State Department, be returned to the Governments of those countries.

The King of Hawaii, in the course of his homeward return after a journey around the world,
has lately visited this country. While our relations with that Kingdom are friendly, this Government
has viewed with concern the efforts to seek replenishment of the diminishing population of
the islands from outward sources, to a degree which may impair the native sovereignty and independence,
in which the United States was among the first to testify a lively interest.

Relations of unimpaired amity have been maintained throughout the year with the respective
Governments of Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Hayti, Paraguay and Uruguay, Portugal, and
Sweden and Norway. This may also be said of Greece and Ecuador, although our relations with
those States have for some years been severed by the withdrawal of appropriations for diplomatic
representatives at Athens and Quito. It seems expedient to restore those missions, even on
a reduced scale, and I decidedly recommend such a course with respect to Ecuador, which is
likely within the near future to play an important part among the nations of the Southern Pacific.

At its last extra session the Senate called for the text of the Geneva convention for the relief
of the wounded in war. I trust that this action foreshadows such interest in the subject as
will result in the adhesion of the United States to that humane and commendable engagement.

I invite your attention to the propriety of adopting the new code of international rules for
the prevention of collisions on the high seas and of conforming the domestic legislation of
the United States thereto, so that no confusion may arise from the application of conflicting
rules in the case of vessels of different nationalities meeting in tidal waters. These international
rules differ but slightly from our own. They have been adopted by the Navy Department for the
governance of the war ships of the United States on the high seas and in foreign waters, and,
through the action of the State Department in disseminating the rules and in acquainting shipmasters
with the option of conforming to them without the jurisdictional waters of the United States,
they are now very generally known and obeyed.

The State Department still continues to publish to the country the trade and manufacturing
reports received from its officers abroad. The success of this course warrants its continuance
and such appropriation as may be required to meet the rapidly increasing demand for these publications.
With special reference to the Atlanta Cotton Exposition, the October number of the reports
was devoted to a valuable collection of papers on the cotton-goods trade of the world.

The International Sanitary Conference for which, in 1879, Congress made provision assembled
in this city early in January last, and its sessions were prolonged until March. Although it
reached no specific conclusions affecting the future action of the participant powers, the
interchange of views proved to be most valuable. The full protocols of the sessions have been
already presented to the Senate.

As pertinent to this general subject, I call your attention to the operations of the National
Board of Health. Established by act of Congress approved March 3, 1879, its sphere of duty
was enlarged by the act of June 2 in the same year. By the last-named act the board was required
to institute such measures as might be deemed necessary for preventing the introduction of
contagious or infectious diseases from foreign countries into the United States or from one
State into another.

The execution of the rules and regulations prepared by the board and approved by my predecessor
has done much to arrest the progress of epidemic disease, and has thus rendered substantial
service to the nation.

The International Sanitary Conference, to which I have referred, adopted a form of a bill of
health to be used by all vessels seeking to enter the ports of the countries whose representatives
participated in its deliberations. This form has since been prescribed by the National Board
of Health and incorporated with its rules and regulations, which have been approved by me in
pursuance of law.

The health of the people is of supreme importance. All measures looking to their protection
against the spread of contagious diseases and to the increase of our sanitary knowledge for
such purposes deserve attention of Congress.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury presents in detail a highly satisfactory exhibit
of the state of the finances and the condition of the various branches of the public service
administered by that Department.

In reviewing the events of the year which has elapsed since the commencement of your sessions,
I first call your attention to the gratifying condition of our foreign affairs. Our intercourse
with other powers has continued to be of the most friendly character.

Such slight differences as have arisen during the year have been already settled or are likely
to reach an early adjustment. The arrest of citizens of the United States in Ireland under
recent laws which owe their origin to the disturbed condition of that country has led to a
somewhat extended correspondence with the Government of Great Britain. A disposition to respect
our rights has been practically manifested by the release of the arrested parties.

The claim of this nation in regard to the supervision and control of any interoceanic canal
across the American Isthmus has continued to be the subject of conference.

It is likely that time will be more powerful than discussion in removing the divergence between
the two nations whose friendship is so closely cemented by the intimacy of their relations
and the community of their interests.

Our long-established friendliness with Russia has remained unshaken. It has prompted me to
proffer the earnest counsels of this Government that measures be adopted for suppressing the
proscription which the Hebrew race in that country has lately suffered. It has not transpired
that any American citizen has been subjected to arrest or injury, but our courteous remonstrance
has nevertheless been courteously received. There is reason to believe that the time is not
far distant when Russia will be able to secure toleration to all faiths within her borders.

At an international convention held at Paris in 1880, and attended by representatives of the
United States, an agreement was reached in respect to the protection of trade-marks, patented
articles, and the rights of manufacturing firms and corporations. The formulating into treaties
of the recommendations thus adopted is receiving the attention which it merits.

The protection of submarine cables is a subject now under consideration by an international
conference at Paris. Believing that it is clearly the true policy of this Government to favor
the neutralization of this means of intercourse, I requested our minister to France to attend
the convention as a delegate. I also designated two of our eminent scientists to attend as
our representatives at the meeting of an international committee at Paris for considering the
adoption of a common unit to measure electric force.

In view of the frequent occurrence of conferences for the consideration of important matters
of common interest to civilized nations, I respectfully suggest that the Executive be invested
by Congress with discretionary powers to send delegates to such conventions, and that provision
be made to defray the expenses incident thereto.

The difference between the United States and Spain as to the effect of a judgment and certificate
of naturalization has not yet been adjusted, but it is hoped and believed that negotiations
now in progress will result in the establishment of the position which seems to this Government
so reasonable and just.

I have already called the attention of Congress to the fact that in the ports of Spain and
its colonies onerous fines have lately been imposed upon vessels of the United States for trivial
technical offenses against local regulations. Efforts for the abatement of these exactions
have thus far proved unsuccessful.

I regret to inform you also that the fees demanded by Spanish consuls in American ports are
in some cases so large, when compared with the value of the cargo, as to amount in effect to
a considerable export duty, and that our remonstrances in this regard have not as yet received
the attention which they seem to deserve.

The German Government has invited the United States to participate in an international exhibition
of domestic cattle to be held at Hamburg in July, 1883. If this country is to be represented,
it is important that in the early days of this session Congress should make a suitable appropriation
for that purpose.

The death of Mr. Marsh, our late minister to Italy, has evoked from that Government expressions
of profound respect for his exalted character and for his honorable career in the diplomatic
service of his country. The Italian Government has raised a question as to the propriety of
recognizing in his dual capacity the representative of this country recently accredited both
as secretary of legation and as consul-general at Rome. He has been received as secretary,
but his exequatur as consul-general has thus far been withheld.

The extradition convention with Belgium, which has been in operation since 1874, has been lately
supplanted by another. The Senate has signified its approval, and ratifications have been duly
exchanged between the contracting countries. To the list of extraditable crimes has been added
that of the assassination or attempted assassination of the chief of the State.

Negotiations have been opened with Switzerland looking to a settlement by treaty of the question
whether its citizens can renounce their allegiance and become citizens of the United States
without obtaining the consent of the Swiss Government.

I am glad to inform you that the immigration of paupers and criminals from certain of the Cantons
of Switzerland has substantially ceased and is no longer sanctioned by the authorities.

The consideration of this subject prompts the suggestion that the act of August 3, 1882, which
has for its object the return of foreign convicts to their own country, should be so modified
as not to be open to the interpretation that it affects the extradition of criminals on preferred
charges of crime.

The Ottoman Porte has not yet assented to the interpretation which this Government has put
upon the treaty of 1830 relative to its jurisdictional rights in Turkey. It may well be, however,
that this difference will be adjusted by a general revision of the system of jurisdiction of
the United States in the countries of the East, a subject to which your attention has been
already called by the Secretary of State.

In the interest of justice toward China and Japan, I trust that the question of the return
of the indemnity fund to the Governments of those countries will reach at the present session
the satisfactory solution which I have already recommended, and which has recently been foreshadowed
by Congressional discussion.

The treaty lately concluded with Korea awaits the action of the Senate. During the late disturbance
in Egypt the timely presence of American vessels served as a protection to the persons and
property of many of our own citizens and of citizens of other countries, whose governments
have expressed their thanks for this assistance.

The recent legislation restricting immigration of laborers from China has given rise to the
question whether Chinese proceeding to or from another country may lawfully pass through our own.

Construing the act of May 6, 1882, in connection with the treaty of November 7, 1880, the restriction
would seem to be limited to Chinese immigrants coming to the United States as laborers, and
would not forbid a mere transit across our territory. I ask the attention of Congress to the
subject, for such action, if any, as may be deemed advisable.

This Government has recently had occasion to manifest its interest in the Republic of Liberia
by seeking to aid the amicable settlement of the boundary dispute now pending between that
Republic and the British possession of Sierra Leone.

The reciprocity treaty with Hawaii will become terminable after September 9, 1883, on twelve
months' notice by either party. While certain provisions of that compact may have proved onerous,
its existence has fostered commercial relations which it is important to preserve. I suggest,
therefore, that early consideration be given to such modifications of the treaty as seem to
be demanded by the interests of our people.

In view of our increasing trade with both Hayti and Santo Domingo, I advise that provision
be made for diplomatic intercourse with the latter by enlarging the scope of the mission at
Port au Prince.

I regret that certain claims of American citizens against the Government of Hayti have thus
far been urged unavailingly.

A recent agreement with Mexico provides for the crossing of the frontier by the armed forces
of either country in pursuit of hostile Indians. In my message of last year I called attention
to the prevalent lawlessness upon the borders and to the necessity of legislation for its suppression.
I again invite the attention of Congress to the subject.

A partial relief from these mischiefs has been sought in a convention, which now awaits the
approval of the Senate, as does also another touching the establishment of the international
boundary between the United States and Mexico. If the latter is ratified, the action of Congress
will be required for establishing suitable commissions of survey. The boundary dispute between
Mexico and Guatemala, which led this Government to proffer its friendly counsels to both parties,
has been amicably settled.

No change has occurred in our relations with Venezuela. I again invoke your action in the matter
of the pending awards against that Republic, to which reference was made by a special message
from the Executive at your last session.

An invitation has been received from the Government of Venezuela to send representatives in
July, 1883, to Caracas for participating in the centennial celebration of the birth of Bolivar,
the founder of South American independence. In connection with this event it is designed to
commence the erection at Caracas of a statue of Washington and to conduct an industrial exhibition
which will be open to American products. I recommend that the United States be represented
and that suitable provision be made therefor.

The elevation of the grade of our mission in Central America to the plenipotentiary rank, which
was authorized by Congress at its late session, has been since effected.

The war between Peru and Bolivia on the one side and Chile on the other began more than three
years ago. On the occupation by Chile in 1880 of all the littoral territory of Bolivia, negotiations
for peace were conducted under the direction of the United States. The allies refused to concede
any territory, but Chile has since become master of the whole coast of both countries and of
the capital of Peru. A year since, as you have already been advised by correspondence transmitted
to you in January last, this Government sent a special mission to the belligerent powers to
express the hope that Chile would be disposed to accept a money indemnity for the expenses
of the war and to relinquish her demand for a portion of the territory of her antagonist.

This recommendation, which Chile declined to follow, this Government did not assume to enforce;
nor can it be enforced without resort to measures which would be in keeping neither with the
temper of our people nor with the spirit of our institutions.

The power of Peru no longer extends over its whole territory, and in the event of our interference
to dictate peace would need to be supplemented by the armies and navies of the United States.
Such interference would almost inevitably lead to the establishment of a protectorate--a result
utterly at odds with our past policy, injurious to our present interests, and full of embarrassments
for the future.

For effecting the termination of hostilities upon terms at once just to the victorious nation
and generous to its adversaries, this Government has spared no efforts save such as might involve
the complications which I have indicated.

It is greatly to be deplored that Chile seems resolved to exact such rigorous conditions of
peace and indisposed to submit to arbitration the terms of an amicable settlement. No peace
is likely to be lasting that is not sufficiently equitable and just to command the approval
of other nations.

About a year since invitations were extended to the nations of this continent to send representatives
to a peace congress to assemble at Washington in November, 1882. The time of meeting was fixed
at a period then remote, in the hope, as the invitation itself declared, that in the meantime
the disturbances between the South American Republics would be adjusted. As that expectation
seemed unlikely to be realized, I asked in April last for an expression of opinion from the
two Houses of Congress as to the advisability of holding the proposed convention at the time
appointed. This action was prompted in part by doubts which mature reflection had suggested
whether the diplomatic usage and traditions of the Government did not make it fitting that
the Executive should consult the representatives of the people before pursuing a line of policy
somewhat novel in its character and far reaching in its possible consequences. In view of the
fact that no action was taken by Congress in the premises and that no provision had been made
for necessary expenses, I subsequently decided to postpone the convocation, and so notified
the several Governments which had been invited to attend.

I am unwilling to dismiss this subject without assuring you of my support of any measures the
wisdom of Congress may devise for the promotion of peace on this continent and throughout the
world, and I trust that the time is nigh when, with the universal assent of civilized peoples,
all international differences shall be determined without resort to arms by the benignant processes
of arbitration.

Changes have occurred in the diplomatic representation of several foreign powers during the
past year. New ministers from the Argentine Republic, Austria-Hungary, Brazil, Chile, China,
France, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, and Russia have presented their credentials. The missions
of Denmark and Venezuela at this capital have been raised in grade. Switzerland has created
a plenipotentiary mission to this Government, and an embassy from Madagascar and a minister
from Siam will shortly arrive.

Our diplomatic intercourse has been enlarged by the establishment of relations with the new
Kingdom of Servia, by the creation of a mission to Siam, and by the restoration of the mission
to Greece. The Shah of Persia has expressed his gratification that a charge d'affaires will
shortly be sent to that country, where the rights of our citizens have been hitherto courteously
guarded by the representatives of Great Britain.

I renew my recommendation of such legislation as will place the United States in harmony with
other maritime powers with respect to the international rules for the prevention of collisions
at sea.

In conformity with your joint resolution of the 3d of August last, I have directed the Secretary
of State to address foreign governments in respect to a proposed conference for considering
the subject of the universal adoption of a common prime meridian to be used in the reckoning
of longitude and in the regulation of time throughout the civilized world. Their replies will
in due time be laid before you.

An agreement was reached at Paris in 1875 between the principal powers for the interchange
of official publications through the medium of their respective foreign departments.

The admirable system which has been built up by the enterprise of the Smithsonian Institution
affords a practical basis for our cooperation in this scheme, and an arrangement has been effected
by which that institution will perform the necessary labor, under the direction of the Department
of State. A reasonable compensation therefor should be provided by law.

A clause in the act making appropriations for the diplomatic and consular service contemplates
the reorganization of both branches of such service on a salaried basis, leaving fees to inure
to the benefit of the Treasury. I cordially favor such a project, as likely to correct abuses
in the present system. The Secretary of State will present to you at an early day a plan for
such reorganization.

A full and interesting exhibit of the operations of the Treasury Department is afforded by
the report of the Secretary.

Our relations with other countries continue to be upon a friendly footing. With the Argentine
Republic, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, Hayti, Italy, Santo Domingo, and Sweden and Norway
no incident has occurred which calls for special comment. The recent opening of new lines of
telegraphic communication with Central America and Brazil permitted the interchange of messages
of friendship with the Governments of those countries.

During the year there have been perfected and proclaimed consular and commercial treaties with
Servia and a consular treaty with Roumania, thus extending our intercourse with the Danubian
countries, while our Eastern relations have been put upon a wider basis by treaties with Korea
and Madagascar. The new boundary-survey treaty with Mexico, a trade-marks convention and a
supplementary treaty of extradition with Spain, and conventions extending the duration of the
Franco-American Claims Commission have also been proclaimed.

Notice of the termination of the fisheries articles of the treaty of Washington was duly given
to the British Government, and the reciprocal privileges and exemptions of the treaty will
accordingly cease on July 1, 1885. The fisheries industries, pursued by a numerous class of
our citizens on the northern coasts, both of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, are worthy of
the fostering care of Congress. Whenever brought into competition with the like industries
of other countries, our fishermen, as well as our manufacturers of fishing appliances and preparers
of fish products, have maintained a foremost place. I suggest that Congress create a commission
to consider the general question of our rights in the fisheries and the means of opening to
our citizens, under just and enduring conditions, the richly stocked fishing waters and sealing
grounds of British North America.

Question has arisen touching the deportation to the United States from the British Islands,
by governmental or municipal aid, of persons unable there to gain a living and equally a burden
on the community here. Such of these persons as fall under the pauper class as defined by law
have been sent back in accordance with the provisions of our statutes. Her Majesty's Government
has insisted that precautions have been taken before shipment to prevent these objectionable
visitors from coming hither without guaranty of support by their relatives in this country.
The action of the British authorities in applying measures for relief has, however, in so many
cases proved ineffectual, and especially so in certain recent instances of needy emigrants
reaching our territory through Canada, that a revision of our legislation upon this subject
may be deemed advisable.

Correspondence relative to the Clayton-Bulwer treaty has been continued and will be laid before
Congress.

The legislation of France against the importation of prepared swine products from the United
States has been repealed. That result is due no less to the friendly representations of this
Government than to a growing conviction in France that the restriction was not demanded by
any real danger to health.

Germany still prohibits the introduction of all swine products from America. I extended to
the Imperial Government a friendly invitation to send experts to the United States to inquire
whether the use of those products was dangerous to health. This invitation was declined. I
have believed it of such importance, however, that the exact facts should be ascertained and
promulgated that I have appointed a competent commission to make a thorough investigation of
the subject. Its members have shown their public spirit by accepting their trust without pledge
of compensation, but I trust that Congress will see in the national and international bearings
of the matter a sufficient motive for providing at least for reimbursement of such expenses
as they may necessarily incur.

The coronation of the Czar at Moscow afforded to this Government an occasion for testifying
its continued friendship by sending a special envoy and a representative of the Navy to attend
the ceremony.

While there have arisen during the year no grave questions affecting the status in the Russian
Empire of American citizens of other faith than that held by the national church, this Government
remains firm in its conviction that the rights of its citizens abroad should be in no wise
affected by their religious belief.

It is understood that measures for the removal of the restrictions which now burden our trade
with Cuba and Puerto Rico are under consideration by the Spanish Government.

The proximity of Cuba to the United States and the peculiar methods of administration which
there prevail necessitate constant discussion and appeal on our part from the proceedings of
the insular authorities. I regret to say that the just protests of this Government have not
as yet produced satisfactory results.

The commission appointed to decide certain claims of our citizens against the Spanish Government,
after the recognition of a satisfactory rule as to the validity and force of naturalization
in the United States, has finally adjourned. Some of its awards, though made more than two
years ago, have not yet been paid. Their speedy payment is expected.

Claims to a large amount which were held by the late commission to be without its jurisdiction
have been diplomatically presented to the Spanish Government. As the action of the colonial
authorities which has given rise to these claims was admittedly illegal, full reparation for
the injury sustained by our citizens should be no longer delayed.

The case of the Masonic has not yet reached a settlement. Manila court has found that the proceedings
of which this Government has complained were unauthorized, and it is hoped that the Government
of Spain will not withhold the speedy reparation which its sense of justice should impel it
to offer for the unusual severity and unjust action of its subordinate colonial officers in
the case of this vessel.

The Helvetian Confederation has proposed the inauguration of a class of international treaties
for the referment to arbitration of grave questions between nations. This Government has assented
to the proposed negotiation of such a treaty with Switzerland.

Under the treaty of Berlin liberty of conscience and civil rights are assured to all strangers
in Bulgaria. As the United States have no distinct conventional relations with that country
and are not a party to the treaty, they should, in my opinion, maintain diplomatic representation
at Sofia for the improvement of intercourse and the proper protection of the many American
citizens who resort to that country as missionaries and teachers. I suggest that I be given
authority to establish an agency and consulate-general at the Bulgarian capital.

The United States are now participating in a revision of the tariffs of the Ottoman Empire.
They have assented to the application of a license tax to foreigners doing business in Turkey,
but have opposed the oppressive storage tax upon petroleum entering the ports of that country.

The Government of the Khedive has proposed that the authority of the mixed judicial tribunals
in Egypt be extended so as to cover citizens of the United States accused of crime, who are
now triable before consular courts. This Government is not indisposed to accept the change,
but believes that its terms should be submitted for criticism to the commission appointed to
revise the whole subject.

At no time in our national history has there been more manifest need of close and lasting relations
with a neighboring state than now exists with respect to Mexico. The rapid influx of our capital
and enterprise into that country shows, by what has already been accomplished, the vast reciprocal
advantages which must attend the progress of its internal development. The treaty of commerce
and navigation of 1848 has been terminated by the Mexican Government, and in the absence of
conventional engagements the rights of our citizens in Mexico now depend upon the domestic
statutes of that Republic. There have been instances of harsh enforcement of the laws against
our vessels and citizens in Mexico and of denial of the diplomatic resort for their protection.
The initial step toward a better understanding has been taken in the negotiation by the commission
authorized by Congress of a treaty which is still before the Senate awaiting its approval.

The provisions for the reciprocal crossing of the frontier by the troops in pursuit of hostile
Indians have been prolonged for another year. The operations of the forces of both Governments
against these savages have been successful, and several of their most dangerous bands have
been captured or dispersed by the skill and valor of United States and Mexican soldiers fighting
in a common cause.

The convention for the resurvey of the boundary from the Rio Grande to the Pacific having been
ratified and exchanged, the preliminary reconnoissance therein stipulated has been effected.
It now rests with Congress to make provision for completing the survey and relocating the boundary
monuments.

A convention was signed with Mexico on July 13, 1882, providing for the rehearing of the cases
of Benjamin Well and the Abra Silver Mining Company, in whose favor awards were made by the
late American and Mexican Claims Commission. That convention still awaits the consent of the
Senate. Meanwhile, because of those charges of fraudulent awards which have made a new commission
necessary, the Executive has directed the suspension of payments of the distributive quota
received from Mexico.

Our geographical proximity to Central America and our political and commercial relations with
the States of that country justify, in my judgment, such a material increase of our consular
corps as will place at each capital a consul-general.

The contest between Bolivia, Chile, and Peru has passed from the stage of strategic hostilities
to that of negotiation, in which the counsels of this Government have been exercised. The demands
of Chile for absolute cession of territory have been maintained and accepted by the party of
General Iglesias to the extent of concluding a treaty of peace with the Government of Chile
in general conformity with the terms of the protocol signed in May last between the Chilean
commander and General Iglesias. As a result of the conclusion of this treaty General Iglesias
has been formally recognized by Chile as President of Peru and his government installed at
Lima, which has been evacuated by the Chileans. A call has been issued by General Iglesias
for a representative assembly, to be elected on the 13th of January, and to meet at Lima on
the 1st of March next. Meanwhile the provisional government of General Iglesias has applied
for recognition to the principal powers of America and Europe. When the will of the Peruvian
people shall be manifested, I shall not hesitate to recognize the government approved by them.

Diplomatic and naval representatives of this Government attended at Caracas the centennial
celebration of the birth of the illustrious Bolivar. At the same time the inauguration of the
statue of Washington in the Venezuelan capital testified to the veneration in which his memory
is there held.

Congress at its last session authorized the Executive to propose to Venezuela a reopening of
the awards of the mixed commission of Caracas. The departure from this country of the Venezuelan
minister has delayed the opening of negotiations for reviving the commission. This Government
holds that until the establishment of a treaty upon this subject the Venezuelan Government
must continue to make the payments provided for in the convention of 1866.

There is ground for believing that the dispute growing out of the unpaid obligations due from
Venezuela to France will be satisfactorily adjusted. The French cabinet has proposed a basis
of settlement which meets my approval, but as it involves a recasting of the annual quotas
of the foreign debt it has been deemed advisable to submit the proposal to the judgment of
the cabinets of Berlin, Copenhagen, The Hague, London, and Madrid.

At the recent coronation of His Majesty King Kalakaua this Government was represented both
diplomatically and by the formal visit of a vessel of war.

The question of terminating or modifying the existing reciprocity treaty with Hawaii is now
before Congress. I am convinced that the charges of abuses and frauds under that treaty have
been exaggerated, and I renew the suggestion of last year's message that the treaty be modified
wherever its provisions have proved onerous to legitimate trade between the two countries.
I am not disposed to favor the entire cessation of the treaty relations which have fostered
good will between the countries and contributed toward the equality of Hawaii in the family
of nations.

In pursuance of the policy declared by this Government of extending our intercourse with the
Eastern nations, legations have during the past year been established in Persia, Siam, and
Korea. It is probable that permanent missions of those countries will ere long be maintained
in the United States. A special embassy from Siam is now on its way hither.

Treaty relations with Korea were perfected by the exchange at Seoul, on the 19th of May last,
of the ratifications of the lately concluded convention, and envoys from the King of Chosen
have visited this country and received a cordial welcome. Korea, as yet unacquainted with the
methods of Western civilization, now invites the attention of those interested in the advancement
of our foreign trade, as it needs the implements and products which the United States are ready
to supply. We seek no monopoly of its commerce and no advantages over other nations, but as
the Chosenese, in reaching for a higher civilization, have confided in this Republic, we can
not regard with indifference any encroachment on their rights.

China, by the payment of a money indemnity, has settled certain of the long-pending claims
of our citizens, and I have strong hopes that the remainder will soon be adjusted.

Questions have arisen touching the rights of American and other foreign manufacturers in China
under the provisions of treaties which permit aliens to exercise their industries in that country.
On this specific point our own treaty is silent, but under the operation of the most-favored-nation
clause we have like privileges with those of other powers. While it is the duty of the Government
to see that our citizens have the full enjoyment of every benefit secured by treaty, I doubt
the expediency of leading in a movement to constrain China to admit an interpretation which
we have only an indirect treaty right to exact. The transference to China of American capital
for the employment there of Chinese labor would in effect inaugurate a competition for the
control of markets now supplied by our home industries.

There is good reason to believe that the law restricting the immigration of Chinese has been
violated, intentionally or otherwise, by the officials of China upon whom is devolved the duty
of certifying that the immigrants belong to the excepted classes.

Measures have been taken to ascertain the facts incident to this supposed infraction, and it
is believed that the Government of China will cooperate with the United States in securing
the faithful observance of the law.

The same considerations which prompted Congress at its last session to return to Japan the
Simonoseki indemnity seem to me to require at its hands like action in respect to the Canton
indemnity fund, now amounting to $300,000.

The question of the general revision of the foreign treaties of Japan has been considered in
an international conference held at Tokyo, but without definite result as yet. This Government
is disposed to concede the requests of Japan to determine its own tariff duties, to provide
such proper judicial tribunals as may commend themselves to the Western powers for the trial
of causes to which foreigners are parties, and to assimilate the terms and duration of its
treaties to those of other civilized states.

Through our ministers at London and at Monrovia this Government has endeavored to aid Liberia
in its differences with Great Britain touching the northwestern boundary of that Republic.
There is a prospect of adjustment of the dispute by the adoption of the Mannah River as the
line. This arrangement is a compromise of the conflicting territorial claims and takes from
Liberia no country over which it has maintained effective jurisdiction.

The rich and populous valley of the Kongo is being opened to commerce by a society called the
International African Association, of which the King of the Belgians is the president and a
citizen of the United States the chief executive officer. Large tracts of territory have been
ceded to the association by native chiefs, roads have been opened, steamboats placed on the
river, and the nuclei of states established at twenty-two stations under one flag which offers
freedom to commerce and prohibits the slave trade. The objects of the society are philanthropic.
It does not aim at permanent political control, but seeks the neutrality of the valley. The
United States can not be indifferent to this work nor to the interests of their citizens involved
in it. It may become advisable for us to cooperate with other commercial powers in promoting
the rights of trade and residence in the Kongo Valley free from the interference or political
control of any one nation.

In view of the frequency of invitations from foreign governments to participate in social and
scientific congresses for the discussion of important matters of general concern, I repeat
the suggestion of my last message that provision be made for the exercise of discretionary
power by the Executive in appointing delegates to such convocations. Able specialists are ready
to serve the national interests in such capacity without personal profit or other compensation
than the defrayment of expenses actually incurred, and this a comparatively small annual appropriation
would suffice to meet.

I have alluded in my previous messages to the injurious and vexatious restrictions suffered
by our trade in the Spanish West Indies. Brazil, whose natural outlet for its great national
staple, coffee, is in and through the United States, imposes a heavy export duty upon that
product. Our petroleum exports are hampered in Turkey and in other Eastern ports by restrictions
as to storage and by onerous taxation. For these mischiefs adequate relief is not always afforded
by reciprocity treaties like that with Hawaii or that lately negotiated with Mexico and now
awaiting the action of the Senate. Is it not advisable to provide some measure of equitable
retaliation in our relations with governments which discriminate against our own? If, for example,
the Executive were empowered to apply to Spanish vessels and cargoes from Cuba and Puerto Rico
the same rules of treatment and scale of penalties for technical faults which are applied to
our vessels and cargoes in the Antilles, a resort to that course might not be barren of good
results.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury gives a full and interesting exhibit of the financial
condition of the country.

When it is remembered that at no period in the country's history has the long political contest
which customarily precedes the day of the national election been waged with greater fervor
and intensity, it is a subject of general congratulation that after the controversy at the
polls was over, and while the slight preponderance by which the issue had been determined was
as yet unascertained, the public peace suffered no disturbance, but the people everywhere patiently
and quietly awaited the result.

Nothing could more strikingly illustrate the temper of the American citizen, his love of order,
and his loyalty to law. Nothing could more signally demonstrate the strength and wisdom of
our political institutions.

Eight years have passed since a controversy concerning the result of a national election sharply
called the attention of the Congress to the necessity of providing more precise and definite
regulations for counting the electoral vote.

It is of the gravest importance that this question be solved before conflicting claims to the
Presidency shall again distract the country, and I am persuaded that by the people at large
any of the measures of relief thus far proposed would be preferred to continued inaction.

Our relations with all foreign powers continue to be amicable.

With Belgium a convention has been signed whereby the scope of present treaties has been so
enlarged as to secure to citizens of either country within the jurisdiction of the other equal
rights and privileges in the acquisition and alienation of property. A trade-marks treaty has
also been concluded.

The war between Chile and Peru is at an end. For the arbitration of the claims of American
citizens who during its continuance suffered through the acts of the Chilean authorities a
convention will soon be negotiated.

The state of hostilities between France and China continues to be an embarrassing feature of
our Eastern relations. The Chinese Government has promptly adjusted and paid the claims of
American citizens whose property was destroyed in the recent riots at Canton. I renew the recommendation
of my last annual message, that the Canton indemnity fund be returned to China.

The true interpretation of the recent treaty with that country permitting the restriction of
Chinese immigration is likely to be again the subject of your deliberations. It may be seriously
questioned whether the statute passed at the last session does not violate the treaty rights
of certain Chinese who left this country with return certificates valid under the old law,
and who now seem to be debarred from relanding for lack of the certificates required by the new.

The recent purchase by citizens of the United States of a large trading fleet heretofore under
the Chinese flag has considerably enhanced our commercial importance in the East. In view of
the large number of vessels built or purchased by American citizens in other countries and
exclusively employed in legitimate traffic between foreign ports under the recognized protection
of our flag, it might be well to provide a uniform rule for their registration and documentation,
so that the bona fide property rights of our citizens therein shall be duly evidenced and properly
guarded.

Pursuant to the advice of the Senate at the last session, I recognized the flag of the International
Association of the Kongo as that of a friendly government, avoiding in so doing any prejudgment
of conflicting territorial claims in that region. Subsequently, in execution of the expressed
wish of the Congress, I appointed a commercial agent for the Kongo basin.

The importance of the rich prospective trade of the Kongo Valley has led to the general conviction
that it should be open to all nations upon equal terms. At an international conference for
the consideration of this subject called by the Emperor of Germany, and now in session at Berlin,
delegates are in attendance on behalf of the United States. Of the results of the conference
you will be duly advised.

The Government of Korea has generously aided the efforts of the United States minister to secure
suitable premises for the use of the legation. As the conditions of diplomatic intercourse
with Eastern nations demand that the legation premises be owned by the represented power, I
advise that an appropriation be made for the acquisition of this property by the Government.
The United States already possess valuable premises at Tangier as a gift from the Sultan of
Morocco. As is stated hereafter, they have lately received a similar gift from the Siamese
Government. The Government of Japan stands ready to present to us extensive grounds at Tokyo
whereon to erect a suitable building for the legation, court-house, and jail, and similar privileges
can probably be secured in China and Persia. The owning of such premises would not only effect
a large saving of the present rentals, but would permit of the due assertion of extraterritorial
rights in those countries, and would the better serve to maintain the dignity of the United States.

The failure of Congress to make appropriation for our representation at the autonomous court
of the Khedive has proved a serious embarrassment in our intercourse with Egypt; and in view
of the necessary intimacy of diplomatic relationship due to the participation of this Government
as one of the treaty powers in all matters of administration there affecting the rights of
foreigners, I advise the restoration of the agency and consulate-general at Cairo on its former
basis. I do not conceive it to be the wish of Congress that the United States should withdraw
altogether from the honorable position they have hitherto held with respect to the Khedive,
or that citizens of this Republic residing or sojourning in Egypt should hereafter be without
the aid and protection of a competent representative.

With France the traditional cordial relationship continues. The colossal statue of Liberty
Enlightening the World, the generous gift of the people of France, is expected to reach New
York in May next. I suggest that Congressional action be taken in recognition of the spirit
which has prompted this gift and in aid of the timely completion of the pedestal upon which
it is to be placed.

Our relations with Germany, a country which contributes to our own some of the best elements
of citizenship, continue to be cordial. The United States have extradition treaties with several
of the German States, but by reason of the confederation of those States under the imperial
rule the application of such treaties is not as uniform and comprehensive as the interests
of the two countries require. I propose, therefore, to open negotiations for a single convention
of extradition to embrace all the territory of the Empire.

It affords me pleasure to say that our intercourse with Great Britain continues to be of a
most friendly character.

The Government of Hawaii has indicated its willingness to continue for seven years the provisions
of the existing reciprocity treaty. Such continuance, in view of the relations of that country
to the American system of States, should, in my judgment, be favored.

The revolution in Hayti against the established Government has terminated. While it was in
progress it became necessary to enforce our neutrality laws by instituting proceedings against
individuals and vessels charged with their infringement. These prosecutions were in all cases
successful.

Much anxiety has lately been displayed by various European Governments, and especially by the
Government of Italy, for the abolition of our import duties upon works of art. It is well to
consider whether the present discrimination in favor of the productions of American artists
abroad is not likely to result, as they themselves seem very generally to believe it may, in
the practical exclusion of our painters and sculptors from the rich fields for observation,
study, and labor which they have hitherto enjoyed.

There is prospect that the long-pending revision of the foreign treaties of Japan may be concluded
at a new conference to be held at Tokyo. While this Government fully recognizes the equal and
independent station of Japan in the community of nations, it would not oppose the general adoption
of such terms of compromise as Japan may be disposed to offer in furtherance of a uniform policy
of intercourse with Western nations.

During the past year the increasing good will between our own Government and that of Mexico
has been variously manifested. The treaty of commercial reciprocity concluded January 20, 1883,
has been ratified and awaits the necessary tariff legislation of Congress to become effective.
This legislation will, I doubt not, be among the first measures to claim your attention.

A full treaty of commerce, navigation, and consular rights is much to be desired, and such
a treaty I have reason to believe that the Mexican Government stands ready to conclude.

Some embarrassment has been occasioned by the failure of Congress at its last session to provide
means for the due execution of the treaty of July 29, 1882, for the resurvey of the Mexican
boundary and the relocation of boundary monuments.

With the Republic of Nicaragua a treaty has been concluded which authorizes the construction
by the United States of a canal, railway, and telegraph line across the Nicaraguan territory.

By the terms of this treaty 60 miles of the river San Juan, as well as Lake Nicaragua, an inland
sea 40 miles in width, are to constitute a part of the projected enterprise.

This leaves for actual canal construction 17 miles on the Pacific side and 36 miles on the
Atlantic. To the United States, whose rich territory on the Pacific is for the ordinary purposes
of commerce practically cut off from communication by water with the Atlantic ports, the political
and commercial advantages of such a project can scarcely be overestimated.

It is believed that when the treaty is laid before you the justice and liberality of its provisions
will command universal approval at home and abroad.

The death of our representative at Russia while at his post at St. Petersburg afforded to the
Imperial Government a renewed opportunity to testify its sympathy in a manner befitting the
intimate friendliness which has ever marked the intercourse of the two countries.

The course of this Government in raising its representation at Bangkok to the diplomatic rank
has evoked from Siam evidences of warm friendship and augurs well for our enlarged intercourse.
The Siamese Government has presented to the United States a commodious mansion and grounds
for the occupancy of the legation, and I suggest that by joint resolution Congress attest its
appreciation of this generous gift.

This government has more than once been called upon of late to take action in fulfillment of
its international obligations toward Spain. Agitation in the island of Cuba hostile to the
Spanish Crown having been fomented by persons abusing the sacred rights of hospitality which
our territory affords, the officers of this Government have been instructed to exercise vigilance
to prevent infractions of our neutrality laws at Key West and at other points near the Cuban
coast. I am happy to say that in the only instance where these precautionary measures were
successfully eluded the offenders, when found in our territory, were subsequently tried and
convicted.

The growing need of close relationship of intercourse and traffic between the Spanish Antilles
and their natural market in the United States led to the adoption in January last of a commercial
agreement looking to that end. This agreement has since been superseded by a more carefully
framed and comprehensive convention, which I shall submit to the Senate for approval. It has
been the aim of this negotiation to open such a favored reciprocal exchange of productions
carried under the flag of either country as to make the intercourse between Cuba and Puerto
Rico and ourselves scarcely less intimate than the commercial movement between our domestic
ports, and to insure a removal of the burdens on shipping in the Spanish Indies, of which in
the past our shipowners and shipmasters have so often had cause to complain.

The negotiation of this convention has for a time postponed the prosecution of certain claims
of our citizens which were declared to be without the jurisdiction of the late Spanish-American
Claims Commission, and which are therefore remitted to diplomatic channels for adjustment.
The speedy settlement of these claims will now be urged by this Government.

Negotiations for a treaty of commercial reciprocity with the Dominican Republic have been successfully
concluded, and the result will shortly be laid before the Senate.

Certain questions between the United States and the Ottoman Empire still remain unsolved. Complaints
on behalf of our citizens are not satisfactorily adjusted. The Porte has sought to withhold
from our commerce the right of favored treatment to which we are entitled by existing conventional
stipulations, and the revision of the tariffs is unaccomplished.

The final disposition of pending questions with Venezuela has not as yet been reached, but
I have good reason to expect an early settlement which will provide the means of reexamining
the Caracas awards in conformity with the expressed desire of Congress, and which will recognize
the justice of certain claims preferred against Venezuela.

The Central and South American Commission appointed by authority of the act of July 7, 1884,
will soon proceed to Mexico. It has been furnished with instructions which will be laid before
you. They contain a statement of the general policy of the Government for enlarging its commercial
intercourse with American States. The commissioners have been actively preparing for their
responsible task by holding conferences in the principal cities with merchants and others interested
in Central and South American trade.

The International Meridian Conference lately convened in Washington upon the invitation of
the Government of the United States was composed of representatives from twenty-five nations.
The conference concluded its labors on the 1st of November, having with substantial unanimity
agreed upon the meridian of Greenwich as the starting point whence longitude is to be computed
through 180 degrees eastward and westward, and upon the adoption, for all purposes for which
it may be found convenient, of a universal day which shall begin at midnight on the initial
meridian and whose hours shall be counted from zero up to twenty-four.

The formal report of the transactions of this conference will be hereafter transmitted to the
Congress.

This Government is in frequent receipt of invitations from foreign states to participate in
international exhibitions, often of great interest and importance. Occupying, as we do, an
advanced position in the world's production, and aiming to secure a profitable share for our
industries in the general competitive markets, it is a matter of serious concern that the want
of means for participation in these exhibitions should so often exclude our producers from
advantages enjoyed by those of other countries. During the past year the attention of Congress
was drawn to the formal invitations in this regard tendered by the Governments of England,
Holland, Belgium, Germany, and Austria. The Executive has in some instances appointed honorary
commissioners. This is, however, a most unsatisfactory expedient, for without some provision
to meet the necessary working expenses of a commission it can effect little or nothing in behalf
of exhibitors. An International Inventions Exhibition is to be held in London next May. This
will cover a field of special importance, in which our country holds a foremost rank; but the
Executive is at present powerless to organize a proper representation of our vast national
interests in this direction.

I have in several previous messages referred to this subject. It seems to me that a statute
giving to the Executive general discretionary authority to accept such invitations and to appoint
honorary commissioners, without salary, and placing at the disposal of the Secretary of State
a small fund for defraying their reasonable expenses, would be of great public utility.

This Government has received official notice that the revised international regulations for
preventing collisions at sea have been adopted by all the leading maritime powers except the
United States, and came into force on the 1st of September last. For the due protection of
our shipping interests the provisions of our statutes should at once be brought into conformity
with these regulations.

The question of securing to authors, composers, and artists copyright privileges in this country
in return for reciprocal rights abroad is one that may justly challenge your attention. It
is true that conventions will be necessary for fully accomplishing this result; but until Congress
shall by statute fix the extent to which foreign holders of copyright shall be here privileged
it has been deemed inadvisable to negotiate such conventions. For this reason the United States
were not represented at the recent conference at Berne.

I recommend that the scope of the neutrality laws of the United States be so enlarged as to
cover all patent acts of hostility committed in our territory and aimed against the peace of
a friendly nation. Existing statutes prohibit the fitting out of armed expeditions and restrict
the shipment of explosives, though the enactments in the latter respect were not framed with
regard to international obligations, but simply for the protection of passenger travel. All
these statutes were intended to meet special emergencies that had already arisen. Other emergencies
have arisen since, and modern ingenuity supplies means for the organization of hostilities
without open resort to armed vessels or to filibustering parties.

I see no reason why overt preparations in this country for the commission of criminal acts
such as are here under consideration should not be alike punishable whether such acts are intended
to be committed in our own country or in a foreign country with which we are at peace.

The prompt and thorough treatment of this question is one which intimately concerns the national
honor.

Our existing naturalization laws also need revision. Those sections relating to persons residing
within the limits of the United States in 1795 and 1798 have now only a historical interest.
Section 2172, recognizing the citizenship of the children of naturalized parents, is ambiguous
in its terms and partly obsolete. There are special provisions of law favoring the naturalization
of those who serve in the Army or in merchant vessels, while no similar privileges are granted
those who serve in the Navy or the Marine Corps.

"An uniform rule of naturalization" such as the Constitution contemplates should, among other
things, clearly define the status of persons born within the United States subject to a foreign
power (section 1992) and of minor children of fathers who have declared their intention to
become citizens but have failed to perfect their naturalization. It might be wise to provide
for a central bureau of registry, wherein should be filed authenticated transcripts of every
record of naturalization in the several Federal and State courts, and to make provision also
for the vacation or cancellation of such record in cases where fraud had been practiced upon
the court by the applicant himself or where he had renounced or forfeited his acquired citizenship.
A just and uniform law in this respect would strengthen the hands of the Government in protecting
its citizens abroad and would pave the way for the conclusion of treaties of naturalization
with foreign countries.

The legislation of the last session effected in the diplomatic and consular service certain
changes and reductions which have been productive of embarrassment. The population and commercial
activity of our country are steadily on the increase, and are giving rise to new, varying,
and often delicate relationships with other countries. Our foreign establishment now embraces
nearly double the area of operations that it occupied twenty years ago. The confinement of
such a service within the limits of expenditure then established is not, it seems to me, in
accordance with true economy. A community of 60,000,000 people should be adequately represented
in its intercourse with foreign nations.

A project for the reorganization of the consular service and for recasting the scheme of extraterritorial
jurisdiction is now before you. If the limits of a short session will not allow of its full
consideration, I trust that you will not fail to make suitable provision for the present needs
of the service.

It has been customary to define in the appropriation acts the rank of each diplomatic office
to which a salary is attached. I suggest that this course be abandoned and that it be left
to the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to fix from time to time the diplomatic
grade of the representatives of this Government abroad as may seem advisable, provision being
definitely made, however, as now, for the amount of salary attached to the respective stations.

The condition of our finances and the operations of the various branches of the public service
which are connected with the Treasury Department are very fully discussed in the report of
the Secretary. The aggregate receipts were less than those of the year previous by about $54,000,000.
The falling off in revenue from customs made up nearly $20,000,000 of this deficiency, and
about $23,000,000 of the remainder was due to the diminished receipts from internal taxation.

The Secretary estimates the total receipts for the fiscal year which will end June 30, 1885,
at $330,000,000 and the total expenditures at $290,620,201.16, in which sum are included the
interest on the debt and the amount payable to the sinking fund. This would leave a surplus
for the entire year of about $39,000,000.

The value of exports from the United States to foreign countries during the year ending June
30, 1884, was as follows:

Domestic merchandise - $724,964,852

Foreign merchandise - 15,548,757

Total merchandise - 740,513,609

Specie - 67,133,383

Total exports of merchandise and specie - 807,646,992

The cotton and cotton manufactures included in this statement were valued at $208,900,415;
the breadstuffs at $162,544,715; the provisions at $114,416,547, and the mineral oils at $47,103,248.

During the same period the imports were as follows:

Merchandise - $667,697,693

Gold and silver - 37,426,262

Total - 705,123,955

More than 63 per cent of the entire value of imported merchandise consisted of the following
articles:

Sugar and molasses - $103,884,274

Wool and woolen manufactures - 53,842,292

Silk and its manufactures - 49,949,128

Coffee - 49,686,705

Iron and steel and manufactures thereof - 41,464,599

Chemicals - 38,464,965

Flax, hemp, jute, and like substances, and manufactures thereof - 33,463,398

Cotton and manufactures of cotton - 30,454,476

Hides and skins other than fur skins - 22,350,906

I concur with the Secretary of the Treasury in recommending the immediate suspension of the
coinage of silver dollars and of the issuance of silver certificates. This is a matter to which
in former communications I have more than once invoked the attention of the National Legislature.

It appears that annually for the past six years there have been coined, in Compliance with
the requirements of the act of February 28, 1878, more than 27,000,000 silver dollars.

The number now outstanding is reported by the Secretary to be nearly 185,000,000, whereof but
little more than 40,000,000, or less than 22 per cent, are in actual circulation. The mere
existence of this fact seems to me to furnish of itself a cogent argument for the repeal of
the statute which has made such fact possible.

But there are other and graver considerations that tend in the same direction.

The Secretary avows his conviction that unless this coinage and the issuance of silver certificates
be suspended silver is likely at no distant day to become our sole metallic standard. The commercial
disturbance and the impairment of national credit that would be thus occasioned can scarcely
be overestimated.

I hope that the Secretary's suggestions respecting the withdrawal from circulation of the $1
and $2 notes will receive your approval. It is likely that a considerable portion of the silver
now encumbering the vaults of the Treasury might thus find its way into the currency.

While trade dollars have ceased, for the present at least, to be an element of active disturbance
in our currency system, some provision should be made for their surrender to the Government.
In view of the circumstances under which they were coined and of the fact that they have never
had a legal-tender quality, there should be offered for them only a slight advance over their
bullion value.

The Secretary in the course of his report considers the propriety of beautifying the designs
of our subsidiary silver coins and of so increasing their weight that they may bear their due
ratio of value to the standard dollar. His conclusions in this regard are cordially approved.

In my annual message of 1882 I recommended the abolition of all excise taxes except those relating
to distilled spirits. This recommendation is now renewed. In case these taxes shall be abolished
the revenues that will still remain to the Government will, in my opinion, not only suffice
to meet its reasonable expenditures, but will afford a surplus large enough to permit such
tariff reduction as may seem to be advisable when the results of recent revenue laws and commercial
treaties shall have shown in what quarters those reductions can be most judiciously effected.

One of the gravest of the problems which appeal to the wisdom of Congress for solution is the
ascertainment of the most effective means for increasing our foreign trade and thus relieving
the depression under which our industries are now languishing. The Secretary of the Treasury
advises that the duty of investigating this subject be intrusted in the first instance to a
competent commission. While fully recognizing the considerations that may be urged against
this course, I am nevertheless of the opinion that upon the whole no other would be likely
to effect speedier or better results.

That portion of the Secretary's report which concerns the condition of our shipping interests
can not fail to command your attention. He emphatically recommends that as an incentive to
the investment of American capital in American steamships the Government shall, by liberal
payments for mail transportation or otherwise, lend its active assistance to individual enterprise,
and declares his belief that unless that course be pursued our foreign carrying trade must
remain, as it is to-day, almost exclusively in the hands of foreigners.

One phase of this subject is now especially prominent in view of the repeal by the act of June
26, 1884, of all statutory provisions arbitrarily compelling American vessels to carry the
mails to and from the United States. As it is necessary to make provision to compensate the
owners of such vessels for performing that service after April, 1885, it is hoped that the
whole subject will receive early consideration that will lead to the enactment of such measures
for the revival of our merchant marine as the wisdom of Congress may devise.

The 3 per cent bonds of the Government to the amount of more than $100,000,000 have since my
last annual message been redeemed by the Treasury. The bonds of that issue still outstanding
amount to little over $200,000,000, about one-fourth of which will be retired through the operations
of the sinking fund during the coming year. As these bonds still constitute the chief basis
for the circulation of the national banks, the question how to avert the contraction of the
currency caused by their retirement is one of constantly increasing importance.

It seems to be generally conceded that the law governing this matter exacts from the banks
excessive security, and that upon their present bond deposits a larger circulation than is
now allowed may be granted with safety. I hope that the bill which passed the Senate at the
last session, permitting the issue of notes equal to the face value of the deposited bonds,
will commend itself to the approval of the House of Representatives.

In the expenses of the War Department the Secretary reports a decrease of more than $9,000,000.
Of this reduction $5,600,000 was effected in the expenditures for rivers and harbors and $2,700,000
in expenditures for the Quartermaster's Department.

Outside of that Department the annual expenses of all the Army bureaus proper (except possibly
the Ordnance Bureau) are substantially fixed charges, which can not be materially diminished
without a change in the numerical strength of the Army. The expenditures in the Quartermaster's
Department can readily be subjected to administrative discretion, and it is reported by the
Secretary of War that as a result of exercising such discretion in reducing the number of draft
and pack animals in the Army the annual cost of supplying and caring for such animals is now
$1,108,085.90 less than it was in 1881.

The reports of military commanders show that the last year has been notable for its entire
freedom from Indian outbreaks.

In defiance of the President's proclamation of July 1, 1884, certain intruders sought to make
settlements in the Indian Territory. They were promptly removed by a detachment of troops.

During the past session of Congress a bill to provide a suitable fire-proof building for the
Army Medical Museum and the library of the Surgeon-General's Office received the approval of
the Senate. A similar bill, reported favorably to the House of Representatives by one of its
committees, is still pending before that body. It is hoped that during the coming session the
measure may become a law, and that thereafter immediate steps may be taken to secure a place
of safe deposit for these valuable collections, now in a state of insecurity.

The funds with which the works for the improvement of rivers and harbors were prosecuted during
the past year were derived from the appropriations of the act of August 2, 1882, together with
such few balances as were on hand from previous appropriations. The balance in the Treasury
subject to requisition July 1, 1883, was $10,021,649.55. The amount appropriated during the
fiscal year 1884 was $1,319,634.62 and the amount drawn from the Treasury during the fiscal
year was $8,228,703.54, leaving a balance of $3,112,580.63 in the Treasury subject to requisition
July 1, 1884.

The Secretary of War submits the report of the Chief of Engineers as to the practicability
of protecting our important cities on the seaboard by fortifications and other defenses able
to repel modern methods of attack. The time has now come when such defenses can be prepared
with confidence that they will not prove abortive, and when the possible result of delay in
making such preparation is seriously considered delay seems inexcusable. For the most important
cities--those whose destruction or capture would be a national humiliation--adequate defenses,
inclusive of guns, may be made by the gradual expenditure of $60,000,000--a sum much less than
a victorious enemy could levy as a contribution. An appropriation of about one-tenth of that
amount is asked to begin the work, and I concur with the Secretary of War in urging that it
be granted.

The War Department is proceeding with the conversion of 10-inch smoothbore guns into 8-inch
rifles by lining the former with tubes of forged steel or of coil wrought iron. Fifty guns
will be thus converted within the year. This, however, does not obviate the necessity of providing
means for the construction of guns of the highest power both for the purposes of coast defense
and for the armament of war vessels.

The report of the Gun Foundry Board, appointed April 2, 1883, in pursuance of the act of March
3, 1883, was transmitted to Congress in a special message of February 18, 1884. In my message
of March 26, 1884, I called attention to the recommendation of the board that the Government
should encourage the production at private steel works of the required material for heavy cannon,
and that two Government factories, one for the Army and one for the Navy, should be established
for the fabrication of guns from such material. No action having been taken, the board was
subsequently reconvened to determine more fully the plans and estimates necessary for carrying
out its recommendation. It has received information which indicates that there are responsible
steel manufacturers in this country who, although not provided at present with the necessary
plant, are willing to construct the same and to make bids for contracts with the Government
for the supply of the requisite material for the heaviest guns adapted to modern warfare if
a guaranteed order of sufficient magnitude, accompanied by a positive appropriation extending
over a series of years, shall be made by Congress. All doubts as to the feasibility of the
plan being thus removed, I renew my recommendation that such action be taken by Congress as
will enable the Government to construct its own ordnance upon its own territory, and so to
provide the armaments demanded by considerations of national safety and honor.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy exhibits the progress which has been made on the new
steel cruisers authorized by the acts of August 5, 1882, and March 3, 1883. Of the four vessels
under contract, one, the Chicago, of 4,500 tons, is more than half finished; the Atlanta, of
3,000 tons, has been successfully launched, and her machinery is now fitting; the Boston, also
of 3,000 tons, is ready for launching, and the Dolphin, a dispatch steamer of 1,500 tons, is
ready for delivery.

Certain adverse criticisms upon the designs of these cruisers are discussed by the Secretary,
who insists that the correctness of the conclusions reached by the Advisory Board and by the
Department has been demonstrated by recent developments in shipbuilding abroad.

The machinery of the double-turreted monitors Puritan, Terror, and Amphitrite, contracted for
under the act of March 3, 1883, is in process of construction. No work has been done during
the past year on their armor for lack of the necessary appropriations. A fourth monitor, the
Monadnock, still remains unfinished at the navy-yard in California. It is recommended that
early steps be taken to complete these vessels and to provide also an armament for the monitor
Miantonomoh.

The recommendations of the Naval Advisory Board, approved by the Department, comprise the construction
of one steel cruiser of 4,500 tons, one cruiser of 3,000 tons, two heavily armed gunboats,
one light cruising gunboat, one dispatch vessel armed with Hotchkiss cannon, one armored ram,
and three torpedo boats. The general designs, all of which are calculated to meet the existing
wants of the service, are now well advanced, and the construction of the vessels can be undertaken
as soon as you shall grant the necessary authority.

The act of Congress approved August 7, 1882, authorized the removal to the United States of
the bodies of Lieutenant-Commander George W. De Long and his companions of the Jeannette expedition.
This removal has been successfully accomplished by Lieutenants Harber and Schuetze. The remains
were taken from their grave in the Lena Delta in March, 1883, and were retained at Yakutsk
until the following winter, the season being too far advanced to admit of their immediate transportation.
They arrived at New York February 20, 1884, where they were received with suitable honors.

In pursuance of the joint resolution of Congress approved February 13, 1884, a naval expedition
was fitted out for the relief of Lieutenant A. W. Greely, United States Army, and of the party
who had been engaged under his command in scientific observations at Lady Franklin Bay. The
fleet consisted of the steam sealer Thetis, purchased in England; the Bear, purchased at St.
Johns, Newfoundland, and the Alert, which was generously provided by the British Government.
Preparations for the expedition were promptly made by the Secretary of the Navy, with the active
cooperation of the Secretary of War. Commander George W. Coffin was placed in command of the
Alert and Lieutenant William H. Emory in command of the Bear. The Thetis was intrusted to Commander
Winfield S. Schley, to whom also was assigned the superintendence of the entire expedition.

Immediately upon its arrival at Upernavik the fleet began the dangerous navigation of Melville
Bay, and in spite of every obstacle reached Littleton Island on June 22, a fortnight earlier
than any vessel had before attained that point. On the same day it crossed over to Cape Sabine,
where Lieutenant Greely and the other survivors of his party were discovered. After taking
on board the living and the bodies of the dead, the relief ships sailed for St. Johns, where
they arrived on July 17. They were appropriately received at Portsmouth, N. H., on August 1
and at New York on August 8. One of the bodies was landed at the former place. The others were
put on shore at Governors Island, and, with the exception of one, which was interred in the
national cemetery, were forwarded thence to the destinations indicated by friends. The organization
and conduct of this relief expedition reflects great credit upon all who contributed to its
success.

In this the last of the stated messages that I shall have the honor to transmit to the Congress
of the United States I can not too strongly urge upon its attention the duty of restoring our
Navy as rapidly as possible to the high state of efficiency which formerly characterized it.
As the long peace that has lulled us into a sense of fancied security may at any time be disturbed,
it is plain that the policy of strengthening this arm of the service is dictated by considerations
of wise economy, of just regard for our future tranquillity, and of true appreciation of the
dignity and honor of the Republic.

The report of the Postmaster-General acquaints you with the present condition and needs of
the postal service.

It discloses the gratifying fact that the loss of revenue from the reduction in the rate of
letter postage recommended in my message of December 4, 1882, and effected by the act of March
3, 1883, has been much less than was generally anticipated. My recommendation of this reduction
was based upon the belief that the actual falling off in receipts from letter postages for
the year immediately succeeding the change of rate would be $3,000,000. It has proved to be
only $2,275,000.

This is a trustworthy indication that the revenue will soon be restored to its former volume
by the natural increase of sealed correspondence.

I confidently repeat, therefore, the recommendation of my last annual message that the single-rate
postage upon drop letters be reduced to 1 cent wherever the payment of 2 cents is now required
by law. The double rate is only exacted at offices where the carrier system is in operation,
and it appears that at those offices the increase in the tax upon local letters defrays the
cost not only of its own collection and delivery, but of the collection and delivery of all
other mail matter. This is an inequality that ought no longer to exist.

I approve the recommendation of the Postmaster-General that the unit of weight in the rating
of first-class matter should be 1 ounce instead of one-half ounce, as it now is. In view of
the statistics furnished by the Department, it may well be doubted whether the change would
result in any loss of revenue. That it would greatly promote the convenience of the public
is beyond dispute.

The free-delivery system has been lately applied to five cities, and the total number of offices
in which it is now in operation is 159. Experience shows that its adoption, under proper conditions,
is equally an accommodation to the public and an advantage to the postal service. It is more
than self-sustaining, and for the reasons urged by the Postmaster-General may properly be extended.

In the opinion of that officer it is important to provide means whereby exceptional dispatch
in dealing with letters in free-delivery offices may be secured by payment of extraordinary
postage. This scheme might be made effective by employment of a special stamp whose cost should
be commensurate with the expense of the extra service.

In some of the large cities private express companies have undertaken to outstrip the Government
mail carriers by affording for the prompt transmission of letters better facilities than have
hitherto been at the command of the Post-Office.

It has always been the policy of the Government to discourage such enterprises, and in no better
mode can that policy be maintained than in supplying the public with the most efficient mail
service that, with due regard to its own best interests, can be furnished for its accommodation.

The Attorney-General renews the recommendation contained in his report of last year touching
the fees of witnesses and jurors.

He favors radical changes in the fee bill, the adoption of a system by which attorneys and
marshals of the United States shall be compensated solely by salaries, and the erection by
the Government of a penitentiary for the confinement of offenders against its laws.

Of the varied governmental concerns in charge of the Interior Department the report of its
Secretary presents an interesting summary. Among the topics deserving particular attention
I refer you to his observations respecting our Indian affairs, the preemption and timber-culture
acts, the failure of railroad companies to take title to lands granted by the Government, and
the operations of the Pension Office, the Patent Office, the Census Bureau, and the Bureau
of Education.

Allusion has been made already to the circumstance that, both as between the different Indian
tribes and as between the Indians and the whites, the past year has been one of unbroken peace.

In this circumstance the President is glad to find justification for the policy of the Government
in its dealing with the Indian question and confirmation of the views which were fully expressed
in his first communication to the Forty-seventh Congress.

The Secretary urges anew the enactment of a statute for the punishment of crimes committed
on the Indian reservations, and recommends the passage of the bill now pending in the House
of Representatives for the purchase of a tract of 18,000 square miles from the Sioux Reservation.
Both these measures are worthy of approval.

I concur with him also in advising the repeal of the preemption law, the enactment of statutes
resolving the present legal complications touching lapsed grants to railroad companies, and
the funding of the debt of the several Pacific railroads under such guaranty as shall effectually
secure its ultimate payment.

The report of the Utah Commission will be read with interest.

It discloses the results of recent legislation looking to the prevention and punishment of
polygamy in that Territory. I still believe that if that abominable practice can be suppressed
by law it can only be by the most radical legislation consistent with the restraints of the
Constitution.

I again recommend, therefore, that Congress assume absolute political control of the Territory
of Utah and provide for the appointment of commissioners with such governmental powers as in
its judgment may justly and wisely be put into their hands.

In the course of this communication reference has more than once been made to the policy of
this Government as regards the extension of our foreign trade. It seems proper to declare the
general principles that should, in my opinion, underlie our national efforts in this direction.

The main conditions of the problem may be thus stated:

We are a people apt in mechanical pursuits and fertile in invention. We cover a vast extent
of territory rich in agricultural products and in nearly all the raw materials necessary for
successful manufacture. We have a system of productive establishments more than sufficient
to supply our own demands. The wages of labor are nowhere else so great. The scale of living
of our artisan classes is such as tends to secure their personal comfort and the development
of those higher moral and intellectual qualities that go to the making of good citizens. Our
system of tax and tariff legislation is yielding a revenue which is in excess of the present
needs of the Government.

These are the elements from which it is sought to devise a scheme by which, without unfavorably
changing the condition of the workingman, our merchant marine shall be raised from its enfeebled
condition and new markets provided for the sale beyond our borders of the manifold fruits of
our industrial enterprises.

The problem is complex and can be solved by no single measure of innovation or reform.

The countries of the American continent and the adjacent islands are for the United States
the natural marts of supply and demand. It is from them that we should obtain what we do not
produce or do not produce in sufficiency, and it is to them that the surplus productions of
our fields, our mills, and our workshops should flow, under conditions that will equalize or
favor them in comparison with foreign competition.

Four paths of policy seem to point to this end:

First. A series of reciprocal commercial treaties with the countries of America which shall
foster between us and them an unhampered movement of trade. The conditions of these treaties
should be the free admission of such merchandise as this country does not produce, in return
for the admission free or under a favored scheme of duties of our own products, the benefits
of such exchange to apply only to goods carried under the flag of the parties to the contract;
the removal on both sides from the vessels so privileged of all tonnage dues and national imposts,
so that those vessels may ply unhindered between our ports and those of the other contracting
parties, though without infringing on the reserved home coasting trade; the removal or reduction
of burdens on the exported products of those countries coming within the benefits of the treaties,
and the avoidance of the technical restrictions and penalties by which our intercourse with
those countries is at present hampered.

Secondly. The establishment of the consular service of the United States on a salaried footing,
thus permitting the relinquishment of consular fees not only as respects vessels under the
national flag, but also as respects vessels of the treaty nations carrying goods entitled to
the benefits of the treaties.

Thirdly. The enactment of measures to favor the construction and maintenance of a steam carrying
marine under the flag of the United States.

Fourthly. The establishment of an uniform currency basis for the countries of America, so that
the coined products of our mines may circulate on equal terms throughout the whole system of
commonwealths. This would require a monetary union of America, whereby the output of the bullion-producing
countries and the circulation of those which yield neither gold nor silver could be adjusted
in conformity with the population, wealth, and commercial needs of each. As many of the countries
furnish no bullion to the common stock, the surplus production of our mines and mints might
thus be utilized and a step taken toward the general remonetization of silver.

To the accomplishment of these ends, so far as they can be attained by separate treaties, the
negotiations already concluded and now in progress have been directed; and the favor which
this enlarged policy has thus far received warrants the belief that its operations will ere
long embrace all, or nearly all, the countries of this hemisphere.

It is by no means desirable, however, that the policy under consideration should be applied
to these countries alone. The healthful enlargement of our trade with Europe, Asia, and Africa
should be sought by reducing tariff burdens on such of their wares as neither we nor the other
American States are fitted to produce, and thus enabling ourselves to obtain in return a better
market for our supplies of food, of raw materials, and of the manufactures in which we excel.

It seems to me that many of the embarrassing elements in the great national conflict between
protection and free trade may thus be turned to good account; that the revenue may be reduced
so as no longer to overtax the people; that protective duties may be retained without becoming
burdensome; that our shipping interests may be judiciously encouraged, the currency fixed on
firm bases, and, above all, such an unity of interests established among the States of the
American system as will be of great and ever-increasing advantage to them all.

All treaties in the line of this policy which have been negotiated or are in process of negotiation
contain a provision deemed to be requisite under the clause of the Constitution limiting to
the House of Representatives the authority to originate bills for raising revenue.

On the 29th of February last I transmitted to the Congress the first annual report of the Civil
Service Commission, together with communications from the heads of the several Executive Departments
of the Government respecting the practical workings of the law under which the Commission had
been acting. The good results therein foreshadowed have been more than realized.

The system has fully answered the expectations of its friends in securing competent and faithful
public servants and in protecting the appointing officers of the Government from the pressure
of personal importunity and from the labor of examining the claims and pretensions of rival
candidates for public employment.

The law has had the unqualified support of the President and of the heads of the several Departments,
and the members of the Commission have performed their duties with zeal and fidelity. Their
report will shortly be submitted, and will be accompanied by such recommendations for enlarging
the scope of the existing statute as shall commend themselves to the Executive and the Commissioners
charged with its administration.

In view of the general and persistent demand throughout the commercial community for a national
bankrupt law, I hope that the differences of sentiment which have hitherto prevented its enactment
may not outlast the present session.

The pestilence which for the past two years has been raging in the countries of the East recently
made its appearance in European ports with which we are in constant communication.

The then Secretary of the Treasury, in pursuance of a proclamation of the President, issued
certain regulations restricting and for a time prohibiting the importation of rags and the
admission of baggage of immigrants and of travelers arriving from infected quarters. Lest this
course may have been without strict warrant of law, I approve the recommendation of the present
Secretary that the Congress take action in the premises, and I also recommend the immediate
adoption of such measures as will be likely to ward off the dreaded epidemic and to mitigate
its severity in case it shall unhappily extend to our shores.

The annual report of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia reviews the operations of
the several departments of its municipal government. I ask your careful consideration of its
suggestions in respect to legislation, especially commending such as relate to a revision of
the civil and criminal code, the performance of labor by persons sentenced to imprisonment
in the jail, the construction and occupation of wharves along the river front, and the erection
of a suitable building for District offices.

I recommend that in recognition of the eminent services of Ulysses S. Grant, late General of
the armies of the United States and twice President of this nation, the Congress confer upon
him a suitable pension.

Certain of the measures that seem to me necessary and expedient I have now, in obedience to
the Constitution, recommended for your adoption.

As respects others of no less importance I shall content myself with renewing the recommendations
already made to the Congress, without restating the grounds upon which such recommendations
were based.

The preservation of forests on the public domain, the granting of Government aid for popular
education, the amendment of the Federal Constitution so as to make effective the disapproval
by the President of particular items in appropriation bills, the enactment of statutes in regard
to the filling of vacancies in the Presidential office, and the determining of vexed questions
respecting Presidential inability are measures which may justly receive your serious consideration.

As the time draws nigh when I am to retire from the public service, I can not refrain from
expressing to the members of the National Legislature with whom I have been brought into personal
and official intercourse my sincere appreciation of their unfailing courtesy and of their harmonious
cooperation with the Executive in so many measures calculated to promote the best interests
of the nation.

And to my fellow-citizens generally I acknowledge a deep sense of obligation for the support
which they have accorded me in my administration of the executive department of this Government.

***

State of the Union Address Grover Cleveland December 8, 1885

To the Congress of the United States:

Your assembling is clouded by a sense of public bereavement, caused by the recent and sudden
death of Thomas A. Hendricks, Vice-President of the United States. His distinguished public
services, his complete integrity and devotion to every duty, and his personal virtues will
find honorable record in his country's history.

Ample and repeated proofs of the esteem and confidence in which he was held by his fellow-countrymen
were manifested by his election to offices of the most important trust and highest dignity;
and at length, full of years and honors, he has been laid at rest amid universal sorrow and
benediction. At the threshold of a compliance with these constitutional directions it is well
for us to bear in mind that our usefulness to the people's interests will be promoted by a
constant appreciation of the scope and character of our respective duties as they relate to
Federal legislation. While the Executive may recommend such measures as he shall deem expedient,
the responsibility for legislative action must and should rest upon those selected by the people
to make their laws.

Contemplation of the grave and responsible functions assigned to the respective branches of
the Government under the Constitution will disclose the partitions of power between our respective
departments and their necessary independence, and also the need for the exercise of all the
power intrusted to each in that spirit of comity and cooperation which is essential to the
proper fulfillment of the patriotic obligations which rest upon us as faithful servants of
the people.

The jealous watchfulness of our constituencies, great and small, supplements their suffrages,
and before the tribunal they establish every public servant should be judged.

It is gratifying to announce that the relations of the United States with all foreign powers
continue to be friendly. Our position after nearly a century of successful constitutional government,
maintenance of good faith in all our engagements, the avoidance of complications with other
nations, and our consistent and amicable attitude toward the strong and weak alike furnish
proof of a political disposition which renders professions of good will unnecessary. There
are no questions of difficulty pending with any foreign government.

The Argentine Government has revived the long dormant question of the Falkland Islands by claiming
from the United States indemnity for their loss, attributed to the action of the commander
of the sloop of war Lexington in breaking up a piratical colony on those islands in 1831, and
their subsequent occupation by Great Britain. In view of the ample justification for the act
of the Lexington and the derelict condition of the islands before and after their alleged occupation
by Argentine colonists, this Government considers the claim as wholly groundless.

Question has arisen with the Government of Austria-Hungary touching the representation of the
United States at Vienna. Having under my constitutional prerogative appointed an estimable
citizen of unimpeached probity and competence as minister at that court, the Government of
Austria-Hungary invited this Government to take cognizance of certain exceptions, based upon
allegations against the personal acceptability of Mr. Keiley, the appointed envoy, asking that
in view thereof the appointment should be withdrawn. The reasons advanced were such as could
not be acquiesced in without violation of my oath of office and the precepts of the Constitution,
since they necessarily involved a limitation in favor of a foreign government upon the right
of selection by the Executive and required such an application of a religious test as a qualification
for office under the United States as would have resulted in the practical disfranchisement
of a large class of our citizens and the abandonment of a vital principle in our Government.
The Austro-Hungarian Government finally decided not to receive Mr. Keiley as the envoy of the
United States, and that gentleman has since resigned his commission, leaving the post vacant.
I have made no new nomination, and the interests of this Government at Vienna are now in the
care of the secretary of legation, acting as charge d'affaires ad interim.

Early in March last war broke out in Central America, caused by the attempt of Guatemala to
consolidate the several States into a single government. In these contests between our neighboring
States the United States forebore to interfere actively, but lent the aid of their friendly
offices in deprecation of war and to promote peace and concord among the belligerents, and
by such counsel contributed importantly to the restoration of tranquillity in that locality.

Emergencies growing out of civil war in the United States of Colombia demanded of the Government
at the beginning of this Administration the employment of armed forces to fulfill its guaranties
under the thirty-fifth article of the treaty of 1846, in order to keep the transit open across
the Isthmus of Panama. Desirous of exercising only the powers expressly reserved to us by the
treaty, and mindful of the rights of Colombia, the forces sent to the Isthmus were instructed
to confine their action to "positively and efficaciously" preventing the transit and its accessories
from being "interrupted or embarrassed."

The execution of this delicate and responsible task necessarily involved police control where
the local authority was temporarily powerless, but always in aid of the sovereignty of Colombia.

The prompt and successful fulfillment of its duty by this Government was highly appreciated
by the Government of Colombia, and has been followed by expressions of its satisfaction.

High praise is due to the officers and men engaged in this service. The restoration of peace
on the Isthmus by the reestablishment of the constituted Government there being thus accomplished,
the forces of the United States were withdrawn.

Pending these occurrences a question of much importance was presented by decrees of the Colombian
Government proclaiming the closure of certain ports then in the hands of insurgents and declaring
vessels held by the revolutionists to be piratical and liable to capture by any power. To neither
of these propositions could the United States assent. An effective closure of ports not in
the possession of the Government, but held by hostile partisans, could not be recognized; neither
could the vessels of insurgents against the legitimate sovereignty be deemed hostes humani
generis within the precepts of international law, whatever might be the definition and penalty
of their acts under the municipal law of the State against whose authority they were in revolt.
The denial by this Government of the Colombian propositions did not, however, imply the admission
of a belligerent status on the part of the insurgents.

The Colombian Government has expressed its willingness to negotiate conventions for the adjustment
by arbitration of claims by foreign citizens arising out of the destruction of the city of
Aspinwall by the insurrectionary forces.

The interest of the United States in a practicable transit for ships across the strip of land
separating the Atlantic from the Pacific has been repeatedly manifested during the last half
century.

My immediate predecessor caused to be negotiated with Nicaragua a treaty for the construction,
by and at the sole cost of the United States, of a canal through Nicaraguan territory, and
laid it before the Senate. Pending the action of that body thereon, I withdrew the treaty for
reexamination. Attentive consideration of its provisions leads me to withhold it from resubmission
to the Senate.

Maintaining, as I do, the tenets of a line of precedents from Washington's day, which proscribe
entangling alliances with foreign states, I do not favor a policy of acquisition of new and
distant territory or the incorporation of remote interests with our own.

The laws of progress are vital and organic, and we must be conscious of that irresistible tide
of commercial expansion which, as the concomitant of our active civilization, day by day is
being urged onward by those increasing facilities of production, transportation, and communication
to which steam and electricity have given birth; but our duty in the present instructs us to
address ourselves mainly to the development of the vast resources of the great area committed
to our charge and to the cultivation of the arts of peace within our own borders, though jealously
alert in preventing the American hemisphere from being involved in the political problems and
complications of distant governments. Therefore I am unable to recommend propositions involving
paramount privileges of ownership or right outside of our own territory, when coupled with
absolute and unlimited engagements to defend the territorial integrity of the state where such
interests lie. While the general project of connecting the two oceans by means of a canal is
to be encouraged, I am of opinion that any scheme to that end to be considered with favor should
be free from the features alluded to.

The Tehuantepec route is declared by engineers of the highest repute and by competent scientists
to afford an entirely practicable transit for vessels and cargoes, by means of a ship railway,
from the Atlantic to the Pacific. The obvious advantages of such a route, if feasible, over
others more remote from the axial lines of traffic between Europe and the pacific, and particularly
between the Valley of the Mississippi and the western coast of North and South America, are
deserving of consideration.

Whatever highway may be constructed across the barrier dividing the two greatest maritime areas
of the world must be for the world's benefit--a trust for mankind, to be removed from the chance
of domination by any single power, nor become a point of invitation for hostilities or a prize
for warlike ambition. An engagement combining the construction, ownership, and operation of
such a work by this Government, with an offensive and defensive alliance for its protection,
with the foreign state whose responsibilities and rights we would share is, in my judgment,
inconsistent with such dedication to universal and neutral use, and would, moreover, entail
measures for its realization beyond the scope of our national polity or present means.

The lapse of years has abundantly confirmed the wisdom and foresight of those earlier Administrations
which, long before the conditions of maritime intercourse were changed and enlarged by the
progress of the age, proclaimed the vital need of interoceanic transit across the American
Isthmus and consecrated it in advance to the common use of mankind by their positive declarations
and through the formal obligation of treaties. Toward such realization the efforts of my Administration
will be applied, ever bearing in mind the principles on which it must rest, and which were
declared in no uncertain tones by Mr. Cass, who, while Secretary of State, in 1858, announced
that "what the United States want in Central America, next to the happiness of its people,
is the security and neutrality of the interoceanic routes which lead through it."

The construction of three transcontinental lines of railway, all in successful operation, wholly
within our territory, and uniting the Atlantic and the Pacific oceans, has been accompanied
by results of a most interesting and impressive nature, and has created new conditions, not
in the routes of commerce only, but in political geography, which powerfully affect our relations
toward and necessarily increase our interests in any transisthmian route which may be opened
and employed for the ends of peace and traffic, or, in other contingencies, for uses inimical
to both.

Transportation is a factor in the cost of commodities scarcely second to that of their production,
and weighs as heavily upon the consumer.

Our experience already has proven the great importance of having the competition between land
carriage and water carriage fully developed, each acting as a protection to the public against
the tendencies to monopoly which are inherent in the consolidation of wealth and power in the
hands of vast corporations.

These suggestions may serve to emphasize what I have already said on the score of the necessity
of a neutralization of any interoceanic transit; and this can only be accomplished by making
the uses of the route open to all nations and subject to the ambitions and warlike necessities
of none.

The drawings and report of a recent survey of the Nicaragua Canal route, made by Chief Engineer
Menocal, will be communicated for your information.

The claims of citizens of the United States for losses by reason of the late military operations
of Chile in Peru and Bolivia are the subject of negotiation for a claims convention with Chile,
providing for their submission to arbitration.

The harmony of our relations with China is fully sustained.

In the application of the acts lately passed to execute the treaty of 1880, restrictive of
the immigration of Chinese laborers into the United States, individual cases of hardship have
occurred beyond the power of the Executive to remedy, and calling for judicial determination.

The condition of the Chinese question in the Western States and Territories is, despite this
restrictive legislation, far from being satisfactory. The recent outbreak in Wyoming Territory,
where numbers of unoffending Chinamen, indisputably within the protection of the treaties and
the law, were murdered by a mob, and the still more recent threatened outbreak of the same
character in Washington Territory, are fresh in the minds of all, and there is apprehension
lest the bitterness of feeling against the Mongolian race on the Pacific Slope may find vent
in similar lawless demonstrations. All the power of this Government should be exerted to maintain
the amplest good faith toward China in the treatment of these men, and the inflexible sternness
of the law in bringing the wrongdoers to justice should be insisted upon.

Every effort has been made by this Government to prevent these violent outbreaks and to aid
the representatives of China in their investigation of these outrages; and it is but just to
say that they are traceable to the lawlessness of men not citizens of the United States engaged
in competition with Chinese laborers.

Race prejudice is the chief factor in originating these disturbances, and it exists in a large
part of our domain, jeopardizing our domestic peace and the good relationship we strive to
maintain with China.

The admitted right of a government to prevent the influx of elements hostile to its internal
peace and security may not be questioned, even where there is no treaty stipulation on the
subject. That the exclusion of Chinese labor is demanded in other countries where like conditions
prevail is strongly evidenced in the Dominion of Canada, where Chinese immigration is now regulated
by laws more exclusive than our own. If existing laws are inadequate to compass the end in
view, I shall be prepared to give earnest consideration to any further remedial measures, within
the treaty limits, which the wisdom of Congress may devise.

The independent State of the Kongo has been organized as a government under the sovereignty
of His Majesty the King of the Belgians, who assumes its chief magistracy in his personal character
only, without making the new State a dependency of Belgium. It is fortunate that a benighted
region, owing all it has of quickening civilization to the beneficence and philanthropic spirit
of this monarch, should have the advantage and security of his benevolent supervision.

The action taken by this Government last year in being the first to recognize the flag of the
International Association of the Kongo has been followed by formal recognition of the new nationality
which succeeds to its sovereign powers.

A conference of delegates of the principal commercial nations was held at Berlin last winter
to discuss methods whereby the Kongo basin might be kept open to the world's trade. Delegates
attended on behalf of the United States on the understanding that their part should be merely
deliberative, without imparting to the results any binding character so far as the United States
were concerned. This reserve was due to the indisposition of this Government to share in any
disposal by an international congress of jurisdictional questions in remote foreign territories.
The results of the conference were embodied in a formal act of the nature of an international
convention, which laid down certain obligations purporting to be binding on the signatories,
subject to ratification within one year. Notwithstanding the reservation under which the delegates
of the United States attended, their signatures were attached to the general act in the same
manner as those of the plenipotentiaries of other governments, thus making the United States
appear, without reserve or qualification, as signatories to a joint international engagement
imposing on the signers the conservation of the territorial integrity of distant regions where
we have no established interests or control.

This Government does not, however, regard its reservation of liberty of action in the premises
as at all impaired; and holding that an engagement to share in the obligation of enforcing
neutrality in the remote valley of the Kongo would be an alliance whose responsibilities we
are not in a position to assume, I abstain from asking the sanction of the Senate to that general
act.

The correspondence will be laid before you, and the instructive and interesting report of the
agent sent by this Government to the Kongo country and his recommendations for the establishment
of commercial agencies on the African coast are also submitted for your consideration.

The commission appointed by my predecessor last winter to visit the Central and South American
countries and report on the methods of enlarging the commercial relations of the United States
therewith has submitted reports, which will be laid before you.

No opportunity has been omitted to testify the friendliness of this Government toward Korea,
whose entrance into the family of treaty powers the United States were the first to recognize.
I regard with favor the application made by the Korean Government to be allowed to employ American
officers as military instructors, to which the assent of Congress becomes necessary, and I
am happy to say this request has the concurrent sanction of China and Japan.

The arrest and imprisonment of Julio R. Santos, a citizen of the United States, by the authorities
of Ecuador gave rise to a contention with that Government, in which his right to be released
or to have a speedy and impartial trial on announced charges and with all guaranties of defense
stipulated by treaty was insisted upon by us. After an elaborate correspondence and repeated
and earnest representations on our part Mr. Santos was, after an alleged trial and conviction,
eventually included in a general decree of amnesty and pardoned by the Ecuadorian Executive
and released, leaving the question of his American citizenship denied by the Ecuadorian Government,
but insisted upon by our own.

The amount adjudged by the late French and American Claims Commission to be due from the United
States to French claimants on account of injuries suffered by them during the War of Secession,
having been appropriated by the last Congress, has been duly paid to the French Government.

The act of February 25, 1885, provided for a preliminary search of the records of French prize
courts for evidence bearing on the claims of American citizens against France for spoliations
committed prior to 1801. The duty has been performed, and the report of the agent will be laid
before you.

I regret to say that the restrictions upon the importation of our pork into France continue,
notwithstanding the abundant demonstration of the absence of sanitary danger in its use; but
I entertain strong hopes that with a better understanding of the matter this vexatious prohibition
will be removed. It would be pleasing to be able to say as much with respect to Germany, Austria,
and other countries, where such food products are absolutely excluded, without present prospect
of reasonable change.

The interpretation of our existing treaties of naturalization by Germany during the past year
has attracted attention by reason of an apparent tendency on the part of the Imperial Government
to extend the scope of the residential restrictions to which returning naturalized citizens
of German origin are asserted to be liable under the laws of the Empire. The temperate and
just attitude taken by this Government with regard to this class of questions will doubtless
lead to a satisfactory understanding.

The dispute of Germany and Spain relative to the domination of the Caroline Islands has attracted
the attention of this Government by reason of extensive interests of American citizens having
grown up in those parts during the past thirty years, and because the question of ownership
involves jurisdiction of matters affecting the status of our citizens under civil and criminal
law. While standing wholly aloof from the proprietary issues raised between powers to both
of which the United States are friendly, this Government expects that nothing in the present
contention shall unfavorably affect our citizens carrying on a peaceful commerce or there domiciled,
and has so informed the Governments of Spain and Germany.

The marked good will between the United States and Great Britain has been maintained during
the past year.

The termination of the fishing clauses of the treaty of Washington, in pursuance of the joint
resolution of March 3, 1883, must have resulted in the abrupt cessation on the 1st of July
of this year, in the midst of their ventures, of the operations of citizens of the United States
engaged in fishing in British American waters but for a diplomatic understanding reached with
Her Majesty's Government in June last, whereby assurance was obtained that no interruption
of those operations should take place during the current fishing season.

In the interest of good neighborhood and of the commercial intercourse of adjacent communities,
the question of the North American fisheries is one of much importance. Following out the intimation
given by me when the extensory arrangement above described was negotiated, I recommend that
the Congress provide for the appointment of a commission in which the Governments of the United
States and Great Britain shall be respectively represented, charged with the consideration
and settlement, upon a just, equitable, and honorable basis, of the entire question of the
fishing rights of the two Governments and their respective citizens on the coasts of the United
States and British North America. The fishing interests being intimately related to other general
questions dependent upon contiguity and intercourse, consideration thereof in all their equities
might also properly come within the purview of such a commission, and the fullest latitude
of expression on both sides should be permitted.

The correspondence in relation to the fishing rights will be submitted. The arctic exploring
steamer Alert, which was generously given by Her Majesty's Government to aid in the relief
of the Greely expedition, was, after the successful attainment of that humane purpose, returned
to Great Britain, in pursuance of the authority conferred by the act of March 3, 1885.

The inadequacy of the existing engagements for extradition between the United States and Great
Britain has been long apparent. The tenth article of the treaty of 1842, one of the earliest
compacts in this regard entered into by us, stipulated for surrender in respect of a limited
number of offenses. Other crimes no less inimical to the social welfare should be embraced
and the procedure of extradition brought in harmony with present international practice. Negotiations
with Her Majesty's Government for an enlarged treaty of extradition have been pending since
1870, and I entertain strong hopes that a satisfactory result may be soon attained.

The frontier line between Alaska and British Columbia, as defined by the treaty of cession
with Russia, follows the demarcation assigned in a prior treaty between Great Britain and Russia.
Modern exploration discloses that this ancient boundary is impracticable as a geographical
fact. In the unsettled condition of that region the question has lacked importance, but the
discovery of mineral wealth in the territory the line is supposed to traverse admonishes that
the time has come when an accurate knowledge of the boundary is needful to avert jurisdictional
complications. I recommend, therefore, that provision be made for a preliminary reconnoissance
by officers of the United States, to the end of acquiring more precise information on the subject.
I have invited Her Majesty's Government to consider with us the adoption of a more convenient
line, to be established by meridian observations or by known geographical features without
the necessity of an expensive survey of the whole.

The late insurrectionary movements in Hayti having been quelled, the Government of that Republic
has made prompt provision for adjudicating the losses suffered by foreigners because of hostilities
there, and the claims of certain citizens of the United States will be in this manner determined.

The long-pending claims of two citizens of the United States, Pelletier and Lazare, have been
disposed of by arbitration, and an award in favor of each claimant has been made, which by
the terms of the engagement is final. It remains for Congress to provide for the payment of
the stipulated moiety of the expenses.

A question arose with Hayti during the past year by reason of the exceptional treatment of
an American citizen, Mr. Van Bokkelen, a resident of Port-au-Prince, who, on suit by creditors
residing in the United States, was sentenced to imprisonment, and, under the operation of a
Haytian statute, was denied relief secured to a native Haytian. This Government asserted his
treaty right to equal treatment with natives of Hayti in all suits at law. Our contention was
denied by the Haytian Government, which, however, while still professing to maintain the ground
taken against Mr. Van Bokkelen's right, terminated the controversy by setting him at liberty
without explanation.

An international conference to consider the means of arresting the spread of cholera and other
epidemic diseases was held at Rome in May last, and adjourned to meet again on further notice.
An expert delegate on behalf of the United States has attended its sessions and will submit
a report.

Our relations with Mexico continue to be most cordial, as befits those of neighbors between
whom the strongest ties of friendship and commercial intimacy exist, as the natural and growing
consequence of our similarity of institutions and geographical propinquity.

The relocation of the boundary line between the United States and Mexico westward of the Rio
Grande, under the convention of July 29, 1882, has been unavoidably delayed, but I apprehend
no difficulty in securing a prolongation of the period for its accomplishment.

The lately concluded commercial treaty with Mexico still awaits the stipulated legislation
to carry its provisions into effect, for which one year's additional time has been secured
by a supplementary article signed in February last and since ratified on both sides.

As this convention, so important to the commercial welfare of the two adjoining countries,
has been constitutionally confirmed by the treaty- making branch, I express the hope that legislation
needed to make it effective may not be long delayed.

The large influx of capital and enterprise to Mexico from the United States continues to aid
in the development of the resources and in augmenting the material well-being of our sister
Republic. Lines of railway, penetrating to the heart and capital of the country, bring the
two peoples into mutually beneficial intercourse, and enlarged facilities of transit add to
profitable commerce, create new markets, and furnish avenues to otherwise isolated communities.

I have already adverted to the suggested construction of a ship railway across the narrow formation
of the territory of Mexico at Tehuantepec.

With the gradual recovery of Peru from the effects of her late disastrous conflict with Chile,
and with the restoration of civil authority in that distracted country, it is hoped that pending
war claims of our citizens will be adjusted.

In conformity with notification given by the Government of Peru, the existing treaties of commerce
and extradition between the United States and that country will terminate March 31, 1886.

Our good relationship with Russia continues.

An officer of the Navy, detailed for the purpose, is now on his way to Siberia bearing the
testimonials voted by Congress to those who generously succored the survivors of the unfortunate
Jeannette expedition.

It is gratifying to advert to the cordiality of our intercourse with Spain.

The long-pending claim of the owners of the ship Masonic for loss suffered through the admitted
dereliction of the Spanish authorities in the Philippine Islands has been adjusted by arbitration
and an indemnity awarded. The principle of arbitration in such cases, to which the United States
have long and consistently adhered, thus receives a fresh and gratifying confirmation.

Other questions with Spain have been disposed of or are under diplomatic consideration with
a view to just and honorable settlement.

The operation of the commercial agreement with Spain of January 2--February 13, 1884, has been
found inadequate to the commercial needs of the United States and the Spanish Antilies, and
the terms of the agreement are subjected to conflicting interpretations in those islands.

Negotiations have been instituted at Madrid for a full treaty not open to these objections
and in the line of the general policy touching the neighborly intercourse of proximate communities,
to which I elsewhere advert, and aiming, moreover, at the removal of existing burdens and annoying
restrictions; and although a satisfactory termination is promised, I am compelled to delay
its announcement.

An international copyright conference was held at Berne in September, on the invitation of
the Swiss Government. The envoy of the United States attended as a delegate, but refrained
from committing this Government to the results, even by signing the recommendatory protocol
adopted. The interesting and important subject of international copyright has been before you
for several years. Action is certainly desirable to effect the object in view; and while there
may be question as to the relative advantage of treating it by legislation or by specific treaty,
the matured views of the Berne conference can not fail to aid your consideration of the subject.

The termination of the commercial treaty of 1862 between the United States and Turkey has been
sought by that Government. While there is question as to the sufficiency of the notice of termination
given, yet as the commercial rights of our citizens in Turkey come under the favored-nation
guaranties of the prior treaty of 1830, and as equal treatment is admitted by the Porte, no
inconvenience can result from the assent of this Government to the revision of the Ottoman
tariffs, in which the treaty powers have been invited to join.

Questions concerning our citizens in Turkey may be affected by the Porte's nonacquiescence
in the right of expatriation and by the imposition of religious tests as a condition of residence,
in which this Government can not concur. The United States must hold in their intercourse with
every power that the status of their citizens is to be respected and equal civil privileges
accorded to them without regard to creed, and affected by no considerations save those growing
out of domiciliary return to the land of original allegiance or of unfulfilled personal obligations
which may survive, under municipal laws, after such voluntary return.

The negotiation with Venezuela relative to the rehearing of the awards of the mixed commission
constituted under the treaty of 1866 was resumed in view of the recent acquiescence of the
Venezuelan envoy in the principal point advanced by this Government, that the effects of the
old treaty could only be set aside by the operation of a new convention. A result in substantial
accord with the advisory suggestions contained in the joint resolution of March 3, 1883, has
been agreed upon and will shortly be submitted to the Senate for ratification.

Under section 3659 of the Revised Statutes all funds held in trust by the United States and
the annual interest accruing thereon, when not otherwise required by treaty, are to be invested
in stocks of the United States bearing a rate of interest not less than 5 per cent per annum.
There being now no procurable stocks paying so high a rate of interest, the letter of the statute
is at present inapplicable, but its spirit is subserved by continuing to make investments of
this nature in current stocks bearing the highest interest now paid. The statute, however,
makes no provision for the disposal of such accretions. It being contrary to the general rule
of this Government to allow interest on claims, I recommend the repeal of the provision in
question and the disposition, under a uniform rule, of the present accumulations from investment
of trust funds.

The inadequacy of existing legislation touching citizenship and naturalization demands your
consideration.

While recognizing the right of expatriation, no statutory provision exists providing means
for renouncing citizenship by an American citizen, native born or naturalized, nor for terminating
and vacating an improper acquisition of citizenship. Even a fraudulent decree of naturalization
can not now be canceled. The privilege and franchise of American citizenship should be granted
with care, and extended to those only who intend in good faith to assume its duties and responsibilities
when attaining its privileges and benefits. It should be withheld from those who merely go
through the forms of naturalization with the intent of escaping the duties of their original
allegiance without taking upon themselves those of their new status, or who may acquire the
rights of American citizenship for no other than a hostile purpose toward their original governments.
These evils have had many flagrant illustrations.

I regard with favor the suggestion put forth by one of my predecessors that provision be made
for a central bureau of record of the decrees of naturalization granted by the various courts
throughout the United States now invested with that power.

The rights which spring from domicile in the United States, especially when coupled with a
declaration of intention to become a citizen, are worthy of definition by statute. The stranger
coming hither with intent to remain, establishing his residence in our midst, contributing
to the general welfare, and by his voluntary act declaring his purpose to assume the responsibilities
of citizenship, thereby gains an inchoate status which legislation may properly define. The
laws of certain States and Territories admit a domiciled alien to the local franchise, conferring
on him the rights of citizenship to a degree which places him in the anomalous position of
being a citizen of a State and yet not of the United States within the purview of Federal and
international law.

It is important within the scope of national legislation to define this right of alien domicile
as distinguished from Federal naturalization.

The commercial relations of the United States with their immediate neighbors and with important
areas of traffic near our shores suggest especially liberal intercourse between them and us.

Following the treaty of 1883 with Mexico, which rested on the basis of a reciprocal exemption
from customs duties, other similar treaties were initiated by my predecessor.

Recognizing the need of less obstructed traffic with Cuba and Puerto Rico, and met by the desire
of Spain to succor languishing interests in the Antilles, steps were taken to attain those
ends by a treaty of commerce. A similar treaty was afterwards signed by the Dominican Republic.
Subsequently overtures were made by Her Britannic Majesty's Government for a like mutual extension
of commercial intercourse with the British West Indian and South American dependencies, but
without result.

On taking office I withdrew for reexamination the treaties signed with Spain and Santo Domingo,
then pending before the Senate. The result has been to satisfy me of the inexpediency of entering
into engagements of this character not covering the entire traffic.

These treaties contemplated the surrender by the United States of large revenues for inadequate
considerations. Upon sugar alone duties were surrendered to an amount far exceeding all the
advantages offered in exchange. Even were it intended to relieve our consumers, it was evident
that so long as the exemption but partially covered our importation such relief would be illusory.
To relinquish a revenue so essential seemed highly improvident at a time when new and large
drains upon the Treasury were contemplated. Moreover, embarrassing questions would have arisen
under the favored-nation clauses of treaties with other nations.

As a further objection, it is evident that tariff regulation by treaty diminishes that independent
control over its own revenues which is essential for the safety and welfare of any government.
Emergency calling for an increase of taxation may at any time arise, and no engagement with
a foreign power should exist to hamper the action of the Government.

By the fourteenth section of the shipping act approved June 26, 1884, certain reductions and
contingent exemptions from tonnage dues were made as to vessels entering ports of the United
States from any foreign port in North and Central America, the West India Islands, the Bahamas
and Bermudas, Mexico, and the Isthmus as far as Aspinwall and Panama. The Governments of Belgium,
Denmark, Germany, Portugal, and Sweden and Norway have asserted, under the favored-nation clause
in their treaties with the United States, a claim to like treatment in respect of vessels coming
to the United States from their home ports. This Government, however, holds that the privileges
granted by the act are purely geographical, inuring to any vessel of any foreign power that
may choose to engage in traffic between this country and any port within the defined zone,
and no warrant exists under the most-favored-nation clause for the extension of the privileges
in question to vessels sailing to this country from ports outside the limitation of the act.

Undoubtedly the relations of commerce with our near neighbors, whose territories form so long
a frontier line difficult to be guarded, and who find in our country, and equally offer to
us, natural markets, demand special and considerate treatment. It rests with Congress to consider
what legislative action may increase facilities of intercourse which contiguity makes natural
and desirable.

I earnestly urge that Congress recast the appropriations for the maintenance of the diplomatic
and consular service on a footing commensurate with the importance of our national interests.
At every post where a representative is necessary the salary should be so graded as to permit
him to live with comfort. With the assignment of adequate salaries the so-called notarial extra
official fees, which our officers abroad are now permitted to treat as personal perquisites,
should be done away with. Every act requiring the certification and seal of the officer should
be taxable at schedule rates and the fee therefor returned to the Treasury. By restoring these
revenues to the public use the consular service would be self-supporting, even with a liberal
increase of the present low salaries.

In further prevention of abuses a system of consular inspection should be instituted.

The appointment of a limited number of secretaries of legation at large, to be assigned to
duty wherever necessary, and in particular for temporary service at missions which for any
cause may be without a head, should also be authorized.

I favor also authorization for the detail of officers of the regular service as military or
naval attaches at legations.

Some foreign governments do not recognize the union of consular with diplomatic functions.
Italy and Venezuela will only receive the appointee in one of his two capacities, but this
does not prevent the requirement of a bond and submission to the responsibilities of an office
whose duties he can not discharge. The superadded title of consul-general should be abandoned
at all missions.

I deem it expedient that a well-devised measure for the reorganization of the extraterritorial
courts in Oriental countries should replace the present system, which labors under the disadvantage
of combining judicial and executive functions in the same office.

In several Oriental countries generous offers have been made of premises for housing the legations
of the United States. A grant of land for that purpose was made some years since by Japan,
and has been referred to in the annual messages of my predecessor. The Siamese Government has
made a gift to the United States of commodious quarters in Bangkok. In Korea the late minister
was permitted to purchase a building from the Government for legation use. In China the premises
rented for the legation are favored as to local charges. At Tangier the house occupied by our
representative has been for many years the property; this Government, having been given for
that purpose in 1822 by the Sultan of Morocco. I approve the suggestion heretofore made, that,
view of the conditions of life and administration in the Eastern countries, the legation buildings
in China, Japan, Korea, Siam, and perhaps Persia, should be owned and furnished by the Government
with a view to permanency and security. To this end I recommend that authority be given to
accept the gifts adverted to in Japan and Siam, and to purchase in the other countries named,
with provision for furniture and repairs. A considerable saving in rentals would result.

The World's Industrial Exposition, held at New Orleans last winter, with the assistance of
the Federal Government, attracted a large number of foreign exhibits, and proved of great value
in spreading among the concourse of visitors from Mexico and Central and South America a wider
knowledge of the varied manufactures and productions of this country and their availability
in exchange for the productions of those regions.

Past Congresses have had under consideration the advisability of abolishing the discrimination
made by the tariff laws in favor of the works of American artists. The odium of the policy
which subjects to a high rate of duty the paintings of foreign artists and exempts the productions
of American artists residing abroad, and who receive gratuitously advantages and instruction,
is visited upon our citizens engaged in art culture in Europe, and has caused them with practical
unanimity to favor the abolition of such an ungracious distinction; and in their interest,
and for other obvious reasons, I strongly recommend it.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury fully exhibits the condition of the public finances
and of the several branches of the Government connected with his Department. The suggestions
of the Secretary relating to the practical operations of this important Department, and his
recommendations in the direction of simplification and economy, particularly in the work of
collecting customs duties, are especially urged upon the attention of Congress.

The ordinary receipts from all sources for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1885, were $322,690,706.38.
Of this sum $181,471,939.34 was received from customs and $112,498,725.54 from internal revenue.
The total receipts, as given above, were $24,829,163.54 less than those for the year ended
June 30, 1884. This diminution embraces a falling off of $13,595,550.42 in the receipts from
customs and $9,687,346.97 in the receipts from internal revenue.

The total ordinary expenditures of the Government for the fiscal year were $260,226,935.50,
leaving a surplus in the Treasury at the close of the year of $63,463,771.27. This is $40,929,854.32
less than the surplus reported at the close of the previous year.

The expenditures are classified as follows:

The amount paid on the public debt during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1885, was $45,993,235.43,
and there has been paid since that date and up to November 1, 1885, the sum of $369,828, leaving
the amount of the debt at the last-named date $1,514,475,860.47. There was however, at that
time in the Treasury, applicable to the general purposes of the Government, the sum of $66,818,292.38.

The total receipts for the current fiscal year ending June 30, 1886, ascertained to October
1, 1885, and estimated for the remainder of the year, are $315,000,000. The expenditures ascertained
and estimated for the same time are $245,000,000, leaving a surplus at the close of the year
estimated at $70,000,000.

The value of the exports from the United States to foreign countries during the last fiscal
year was as follows:

Some of the principal exports, with their values and the percentage they respectively bear
to the total exportation, are given as follows:

Our imports during the year were as follows:

The following are given as prominent articles of import during the year, with their values
and the percentage they bear to the total importation:

Of the entire amount of duties collected 70 per cent was collected from the following articles
of import:

The fact that our revenues are in excess of the actual needs of all economical administration
of the Government justifies a reduction in the amount exacted from the people for its support.
Our Government is but the means established by the will of a free people by which certain principles
are applied which they have adopted for their benefit and protection; and it is never better
administered and its true spirit is never better observed than when the people's taxation for
its support is scrupulously limited to the actual necessity of expenditure and distributed
according to a just and equitable plan.

The proposition with which we have to deal is the reduction of the revenue received by the
Government, and indirectly paid by the people, from customs duties. The question of free trade
is not involved, nor is there now any occasion for the general discussion of the wisdom or
expediency of a protective system.

Justice and fairness dictate that in any modification of our present laws relating to revenue
the industries and interests which have been encouraged by such laws, and in which our citizens
have large investments, should not be ruthlessly injured or destroyed. We should also deal
with the subject in such manner as to protect the interests of American labor, which is the
capital of our workingmen. Its stability and proper remuneration furnish the most justifiable
pretext for a protective policy.

Within these limitations a certain reduction should be made in our customs revenue. The amount
of such reduction having been determined, the inquiry follows, Where can it best be remitted
and what articles can best be released from duty in the interest of our citizens?

I think the reduction should be made in the revenue derived from a tax upon the imported necessaries
of life. We thus directly lessen the cost of living in every family of the land and release
to the people in every humble home a larger measure of the rewards of frugal industry.

During the year ended November 1, 1885, 145 national banks were organized, with an aggregate
capital of $16,938,000, and circulating notes have been issued to them amounting to $4,274,910.
The whole number of these banks in existence on the day above mentioned was 2,727.

The very limited amount of circulating notes issued by our national banks, compared with the
amount the law permits them to issue upon a deposit of bonds for their redemption, indicates
that the volume of our circulating medium may be largely increased through this instrumentality.

Nothing more important than the present condition of our currency and coinage can claim your
attention.

Since February, 1878, the Government has, under the compulsory provisions of law, purchased
silver bullion and coined the same at the rate of more than $2,000,000 every month. By this
process up to the present date 215,759,431 silver dollars have been coined.

A reasonable appreciation of a delegation of power to the General Government would limit its
exercise, without express restrictive words, to the people's needs and the requirements of
the public welfare.

Upon this theory the authority to "coin money" given to Congress by the Constitution, if it
permits the purchase by the Government of bullion for coinage in any event, does not justify
such purchase and coinage to an extent beyond the amount needed for a sufficient circulating
medium.

The desire to utilize the silver product of the country should not lead to a misuse or the
perversion of this power.

The necessity for such an addition to the silver currency of the nation as is compelled by
the silver-coinage act is negatived by the fact that up to the present time only about 50,000,000
of the silver dollars so coined have actually found their way into circulation, leaving more
than 165,000,000 in the possession of the Government, the custody of which has entailed a considerable
expense for the construction of vaults for it deposit. Against this latter amount there are
outstanding silver certificates amounting to about $93,000,000.

Every month two millions of gold in the public Treasury are paid our for two millions or more
of silver dollars, to be added to the idle mass already accumulated.

If continued long enough, this operation will result in the substitution of silver for all
the gold the Government owns applicable to its general purposes. It will not do to rely upon
the customs receipts of the Government to make good this drain of gold, because the silver
thus coined having been made legal tender for all debts and dues, public and private, at times
during the last six months 58 per cent of the receipts for duties has been in silver or silver
certificates, while the average within that period has been 20 per cent. The proportion of
silver and its certificates received by the Government will probably increase as time goes
on, for the reason that the nearer the period approaches when it will be obliged to offer silver
in payment of its obligations the greater inducement there will be to hoard gold against depreciation
in the value of silver or for the purpose of speculating.

This hoarding of gold has already begun.

When the time comes that gold has been withdrawn from circulation, then will be apparent the
difference between the real value of the silver dollar and a dollar in gold, and the two coins
will part company. Gold, still the standard of value and necessary in our dealings with other
countries, will be at a premium over silver; banks which have substituted gold for the deposits
of their customers may pay them with silver bought with such gold, thus making a handsome profit;
rich speculators will sell their hoarded gold to their neighbors who need it to liquidate their
foreign debts, at a ruinous premium over silver, and the laboring men and women of the land,
most defenseless of all, will find that the dollar received for the wage of their toil has
sadly shrunk in its purchasing power. It may be said that the latter result will be but temporary,
and that ultimately the price of labor will be adjusted to the change; but even if this takes
place the wage-worker can not possibly gain, but must inevitably lose, since the price he is
compelled to pay for his living will not only be measured in a coin heavily depreciated and
fluctuating and uncertain in its value, but this uncertainty in the value of the purchasing
medium will be made the pretext for an advance in prices beyond that justified by actual depreciation.

The words uttered in 1834 by Daniel Webster in the Senate of the United States are true to-day:
The very man of all others who has the deepest interest in a sound currency, and who suffers
most by mischievous legislation in money matters, is the man who earns his daily bread by his
daily toil. The most distinguished advocate of bimetallism, discussing our silver coinage,
has lately written: No American citizen's hand has yet felt the sensation of cheapness, either
in receiving or expending the silver-act dollars. And those who live by labor or legitimate
trade never will feel that sensation of cheapness. However plenty silver dollars may become,
they will not be distributed as gifts among the people; and if the laboring man should receive
four depreciated dollars where he now receives but two, he will pay in the depreciated coin
more than double the price he now pays for all the necessaries and comforts of life.

Those who do not fear any disastrous consequences arising from the continued compulsory coinage
of silver as now directed by law, and who suppose that the addition to the currency of the
country intended as its result will be a public benefit, are reminded that history demonstrates
that the point is easily reached in the attempt to float at the same time two sorts of money
of different excellence when the better will cease to be in general circulation. The hoarding
of gold which has already taken place indicates that we shall not escape the usual experience
in such cases. So if this silver coinage be continued we may reasonably expect that gold and
its equivalent will abandon the field of circulation to silver alone. This of course must produce
a severe contraction of our circulating medium, instead of adding to it.

It will not be disputed that any attempt on the part of the Government to cause the circulation
of silver dollars worth 80 cents side by side with gold dollars worth 100 cents, even within
the limit that legislation does not run counter to the laws of trade, to be successful must
be seconded by the confidence of the people that both coins will retain the same purchasing
power and be interchangeable at will. A special effort has been made by the Secretary of the
Treasury to increase the amount of our silver coin in circulation; but the fact that a large
share of the limited amount thus put out has soon returned to the public Treasury in payment
of duties leads to the belief that the people do not now desire to keep it in hand, and this,
with the evident disposition to hoard gold, gives rise to the suspicion that there already
exists a lack of confidence among the people touching our financial processes. There is certainly
not enough silver now in circulation to cause uneasiness, and the whole amount coined and now
on hand might after a time be absorbed by the people without apprehension; but it is the ceaseless
stream that threatens to overflow the land which causes fear and uncertainty.

What has been thus far submitted upon this subject relates almost entirely to considerations
of a home nature, unconnected with the bearing which the policies of other nations have upon
the question. But it is perfectly apparent that a line of action in regard to our currency
can not wisely be settled upon or persisted in without considering the attitude on the subject
of other countries with whom we maintain intercourse through commerce, trade, and travel. An
acknowledgment of this fact is found in the act by virtue of which our silver is compulsorily
coined. This conference absolutely failed, and a similar fate has awaited all subsequent efforts
in the same direction. And still we continue our coinage of silver at a ratio different from
that of any other nation. The most vital part of the silver-coinage act remains inoperative
and unexecuted, and without an ally or friend we battle upon the silver field in an illogical
and losing contest.

To give full effect to the design of Congress on this subject I have made careful and earnest
endeavor since the adjournment of the last Congress.

To this end I delegated a gentleman well instructed in fiscal science to proceed to the financial
centers of Europe and, in conjunction with our ministers to England, France, and Germany, to
obtain a full knowledge of the attitude and intent of those governments in respect of the establishment
of such an international ratio as would procure free coinage of both metals at the mints of
those countries and our own. By my direction our consul-general at Paris has given close attention
to the proceedings of the congress of the Latin Union, in order to indicate our interest in
its objects and report its action.

It may be said in brief, as the result of these efforts, that the attitude of the leading powers
remains substantially unchanged since the monetary conference of 1881, nor is it to be questioned
that the views of these governments are in each instance supported by the weight of public opinion.

The steps thus taken have therefore only more fully demonstrated the uselessness of further
attempts at present to arrive at any agreement on the subject with other nations.

In the meantime we are accumulating silver coin, based upon our own peculiar ratio, to such
an extent, and assuming so heavy a burden to be provided for in any international negotiations,
as will render us an undesirable party to any future monetary conference of nations.

It is a significant fact that four of the five countries composing the Latin Union mentioned
in our coinage act, embarrassed with their silver currency, have just completed an agreement
among themselves that no more silver shall be coined by their respective Governments and that
such as has been already coined and in circulation shall be redeemed in gold by the country
of its coinage. The resort to this expedient by these countries may well arrest the attention
of those who suppose that we can succeed without shock or injury in the attempt to circulate
upon its merits all the silver we may coin under the provisions of our silver-coinage act.

The condition in which our Treasury may be placed by a persistence in our present course is
a matter of concern to every patriotic citizen who does not desire his Government to pay in
silver such of its obligations as should be paid in gold. Nor should our condition be such
as to oblige us, in a prudent management of our affairs, to discontinue the calling in and
payment of interest-bearing obligations which we have the right now to discharge, and thus
avoid the payment of further interest thereon.

The so-called debtor class, for whose benefit the continued compulsory coinage of silver is
insisted upon, are not dishonest because they are in debt, and they should not be suspected
of a desire to jeopardize the financial safety of the country in order that they may cancel
their present debts by paying the same in depreciated dollars. Nor should it be forgotten that
it is not the rich nor the money lender alone that must submit to such a readjustment, enforced
by the Government and their debtors. The pittance of the widow and the orphan and the incomes
of helpless beneficiaries of all kinds would be disastrously reduced. The depositors in savings
banks and in other institutions which hold in trust the savings of the poor, when their little
accumulations are scaled down to meet the new order of things, would in their distress painfully
realize the delusion of the promise made to them that plentiful money would improve their condition.

We have now on hand all the silver dollars necessary to supply the present needs of the people
and to satisfy those who from sentiment wish to see them in circulation, and if their coinage
is suspended they can be readily obtained by all who desire them. If the need of more is at
anytime apparent, their coinage may be renewed.

That disaster has not already overtaken us furnishes no proof that danger does not wait upon
a continuation of the present silver coinage. We have been saved by the most careful management
and unusual expedients, by a combination of fortunate conditions, and by a confident expectation
that the course of the Government in regard to silver coinage would be speedily changed by
the action of Congress.

Prosperity hesitates upon our threshold because of the dangers and uncertainties surrounding
this question. Capital timidly shrinks from trade, and investors are unwilling to take the
chance of the questionable shape in which their money will be returned to them, while enterprise
halts at a risk against which care and sagacious management do not protect.

As a necessary consequence, labor lacks employment and suffering and distress are visited upon
a portion of our fellow-citizens especially entitled to the careful consideration of those
charged with the duties of legislation. No interest appeals to us so strongly for a safe and
stable currency as the vast army of the unemployed.

I recommend the suspension of the compulsory coinage of silver dollars, directed by the law
passed in February, 1878.

The Steamboat-Inspection Service on the 30th day of June, 1885, was composed of 140 persons,
including officers, clerks, and messengers. The expenses of the service over the receipts were
$138,822.22 during the fiscal year. The special inspection of foreign steam vessels, organized
under a law passed in 1882, was maintained during the year at an expense of $36,641.63. Since
the close of the fiscal year reductions have been made in the force employed which will result
in a saving during the current year of $17,000 without affecting the efficiency of the service.

The Supervising Surgeon-General reports that during the fiscal year 41,714 patients have received
relief through the Marine-Hospital Service, of whom 12,803 were treated in hospitals and 28,911
at the dispensaries.

Active and effective efforts have been made through the medium of this service to protect the
country against an invasion of cholera, which has prevailed in Spain and France, and the smallpox,
which recently broke out in Canada.

The most gratifying results have attended the operations of the Life Saving Service during
the last fiscal year. The observance of the provision of law requiring the appointment of the
force employed in this service to be made "solely with reference to their fitness, and without
reference to their political or party affiliation," has secured the result which may confidently
be expected in any branch of public employment where such a rule is applied. As a consequence,
this service is composed of men well qualified for the performance of their dangerous and exceptionally
important duties.

The number of stations in commission at the close of the year was 203. The number of disasters
to vessels and craft of all kinds within their field of action was 371. The number of persons
endangered in such disasters was 2,439, of whom 2,428 were saved and only 11 lost. Other lives
which were imperiled, though not by disasters to shipping, were also rescued, and a large amount
of property was saved through the aid of this service. The cost of its maintenance during the
year was $828,474.43.

The work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey was during the last fiscal year carried on within
the boundaries and off the coasts of thirty-two States, two Territories, and the District of
Columbia. In July last certain irregularities were found to exist in the management of this
Bureau, which led to a prompt investigation of its methods. The abuses which were brought to
light by this examination and the reckless disregard of duty and the interests of the Government
developed on the part of some of those connected with the service made a change of superintendency
and a few of its other officers necessary. Since the Bureau has been in new hands an introduction
of economies and the application of business methods have produced an important saving to the
Government and a promise of more useful results.

This service has never been regulated by anything but the most indefinite legal enactments
and the most unsatisfactory rules. It was many years ago sanctioned apparently for a purpose
regarded as temporary and related to a survey of our coast. Having gained a place in the appropriations
made by Congress, it has gradually taken to itself powers and objects not contemplated in its
creation and extended its operations until it sadly needs legislative attention.

So far as a further survey of our coast is concerned, there seems to be a propriety in transferring
that work to the Navy Department. The other duties now in charge of this establishment, if
they can not be profitably attached to some existing Department or other bureau, should be
prosecuted under a law exactly defining their scope and purpose, and with a careful discrimination
between the scientific inquiries which may properly be assumed by the Government and those
which should be undertaken by State authority or by individual enterprise.

It is hoped that the report of the Congressional committee heretofore appointed to investigate
this and other like matters will aid in the accomplishment of proper legislation on this subject.

The report of the Secretary of War is herewith submitted. The attention of Congress is invited
to the detailed account which it contains of the administration of his Department, and his
recommendations and suggestions for the improvement of the service.

The Army consisted, at the date of the last consolidated returns, of 2,154 officers and 24,705
enlisted men.

The expenses of the Departments for the fiscal year ended June, 30, 1885, including $13,164,394.60
for public works and river and harbor improvements, were $45,850,999.54.

Besides the troops which were dispatched in pursuit of the small band of Indians who left their
reservation in Arizona and committed murders and outrages, two regiments of cavalry and one
of infantry were sent last July to the Indian Territory to prevent an outbreak which seemed
imminent. They remained to aid, if necessary, in the expulsion of intruders upon the reservation,
who seemed to have caused the discontent among the Indians, but the Executive proclamation
warning them to remove was complied with without their interference.

Troops were also sent to Rock Springs, in Wyoming Territory, after the massacre of Chinese
there, to prevent further disturbance, and afterwards to Seattle, in Washington Territory,
to avert a threatened attack upon Chinese laborers and domestic violence there. In both cases
the mere presence of the troops had the desired effect.

It appears that the number of desertions has diminished, but that during the last fiscal year
they numbered 2,927; and one instance is given by the Lieutenant-General of six desertions
by the same recruit. I am convinced that this number of desertions can be much diminished by
better discipline and treatment; but the punishment should be increased for repeated offenses.

These desertions might also be reduced by lessening the term of first enlistments, thus allowing
a discontented recruit to contemplate a nearer discharge and the Army a profitable riddance.
After one term of service a reenlistment would be quite apt to secure a contented recruit and
a good soldier.

The Acting Judge-Advocate-General reports that the number of trials by general courts-martial
during the year was 2,328, and that 11,851 trials took place before garrison and regimental
courts-martial. The suggestion that probably more than half the Army have been tried for offenses,
great and small, in one year may well arrest attention. Of course many of these trials before
garrison and regimental courts-martial were for offenses almost frivolous, and there should,
I think, be a way devised to dispose of these in a more summary and less inconvenient manner
than by court-martial.

If some of the proceedings of courts-martial which I have had occasion to examine present the
ideas of justice which generally prevail in these tribunals, I am satisfied that they should
be much reformed if the honor and the honesty of the Army and Navy are by their instrumentality
to be vindicated and protected.

The Board on Fortifications or other defenses, appointed in pursuance of the provisions of
the act of Congress approved March 3, 1885, will in a short time present their report, and
it is hoped that this may greatly aid the legislation so necessary to remedy the present defenseless
condition of our seacoasts.

The work of the Signal Service has been prosecuted during the last year with results of increasing
benefit to the country. The field of instruction has been enlarged with a view of adding to
its usefulness. The number of stations in operation June 30, 1885, was 489. Telegraphic reports
are received daily from 160 stations. Reports are also received from 25 Canadian stations,
375 volunteer observers, 52 army surgeons at military posts, and 333 foreign stations. The
expense of the service during the fiscal year, after deducting receipts from military telegraph
lines, was $792,592.97. In view of the fact referred to by the Secretary of War, that the work
of this service ordinarily is of a scientific nature, and the further fact that it is assuming
larger proportions constantly and becoming more and more unsuited to the fixed rules which
must govern the Army, I am inclined to agree with him in the opinion that it should be separately
established. If this is done, the scope and extent of its operations should, as nearly as possible,
be definitely prescribed by law and always capable of exact ascertainment.

The Military Academy at West Point is reported as being in a high state of efficiency and well
equipped for the satisfactory accomplishment of the purposes of its maintenance.

The fact that the class which graduates next year is an unusually large one has constrained
me to decline to make appointments to second lieutenancies in the Army from civil life, so
that such vacancies as exist in these places may be reserved for such graduates; and yet it
is not probable that there will be enough vacancies to provide positions for them all when
they leave the military school. Under the prevailing law and usage those not thus assigned
to duty never actively enter the military service. It is suggested that the law on this subject
be changed so that such of these young men as are not at once assigned to duty after graduation
may be retained as second lieutenants in the Army if they desire it, subject to assignment
when opportunity occurs, and under proper rules as to priority of selection.

The expenditures on account of the Military Academy for the last fiscal year, exclusive of
the sum taken for its purposes from appropriations for the support of the Army, were $290,712.07.

The act approved March 3, 1885, designed to compensate officers and enlisted men for loss of
private property while in the service of the United States, is so indefinite in its terms and
apparently admits so many claims the adjustment of which could not have been contemplated that
if it is to remain upon the statute book it needs amendment.

There should be a general law of Congress prohibiting the construction of bridges over navigable
waters in such manner as to obstruct navigation, with provisions for preventing the same. It
seems that under existing statutes the Government can not intervene to prevent such a construction
when entered upon without its consent, though when such consent is asked and granted upon condition
the authority to insist upon such condition is clear. Thus it is represented that while the
officers of the Government are with great care guarding against the obstruction of navigation
by a bridge across the Mississippi River at St. Paul a large pier for a bridge has been built
just below this place directly in the navigable channel of the river. If such things are to
be permitted, a strong argument is presented against the appropriation of large sums of money
to improve the navigation of this and other important highways of commerce.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy gives a history of the operations of his Department
and the present condition of the work committed to his charge.

He details in full the course pursued by him to protect the rights of the Government in respect
of certain vessels unfinished at the time of his accession to office, and also concerning the
dispatch boat Dolphin, claimed to be completed and awaiting the acceptance of the Department.
No one can fail to see from recitals contained in this report that only the application of
business principles has been insisted upon in the treatment of these subjects, and that whatever
controversy has arisen was caused by the exaction on the part of the Department of contract
obligations as they were legally construed. In the case of the Dolphin, with entire justice
to the contractor, an agreement has been entered into providing for the ascertainment by a
judicial inquiry of the complete or partial compliance with the contract in her construction,
and further providing for the assessment of any damages to which the Government may be entitled
on account of a partial failure to perform such contract, or the payment of the sum still remaining
unpaid upon her price in case a full performance is adjudged.

The contractor, by reason of his failure in business, being unable to complete the other three
vessels, they were taken possession of by the Government in their unfinished state under a
clause in the contract permitting such a course, and are now in process of completion in the
yard of the contractor, but under the supervision of the Navy Department.

Congress at its last session authorized the construction of two additional new cruisers and
two gunboats, at a cost not exceeding in the aggregate $2,995,000. The appropriation for this
purpose having become available on the 1st day of July last, steps were at once taken for the
procurement of such plans for the construction of these vessels as would be likely to insure
their usefulness when completed. These are of the utmost importance, considering the constant
advance in the art of building vessels of this character, and the time is not lost which is
spent in their careful consideration and selection.

All must admit the importance of an effective navy to a nation like ours, having such an extended
seacoast to protect; and yet we have not a single vessel of war that could keep the seas against
a first-class vessel of any important power. Such a condition ought not longer to continue.
The nation that can not resist aggression is constantly exposed to it. Its foreign policy is
of necessity weak and its negotiations are conducted with disadvantage because it is not in
condition to enforce the terms dictated by its sense of right and justice.

Inspired, as I am, by the hope, shared by all patriotic citizens, that the day is not very
far distant when our Navy will be such as befits our standing among the nations of the earth,
and rejoiced at every step that leads in the direction of such a consummation, I deem it my
duty to especially direct the attention of Congress to the close of the report of the Secretary
of the Navy, in which the humiliating weakness of the present organization of his Department
is exhibited and the startling abuses and waste of its present methods are exposed. The conviction
is forced upon us with the certainty of mathematical demonstration that before we proceed further
in the restoration of a Navy we need a thoroughly reorganized Navy Department. The fact that
within seventeen years more than $75,000,000 have been spent in the construction, repair, equipment,
and armament of vessels, and the further fact that instead of an effective and creditable fleet
we have only the discontent and apprehension of a nation undefended by war vessels, added to
the disclosures now made, do not permit us to doubt that every attempt to revive our Navy has
thus far for the most part been misdirected, and all our efforts in that direction have been
little better than blind gropings and expensive, aimless follies.

Unquestionably if we are content with the maintenance of a Navy Department simply as a shabby
ornament to the Government, a constant watchfulness may prevent some of the scandal and abuse
which have found their way into our present organization, and its incurable waste may be reduced
to the minimum. But if we desire to build ships for present usefulness instead of naval reminders
of the days that are past, we must have a Department organized for the work, supplied with
all the talent and ingenuity our country affords, prepared to take advantage of the experience
of other nations, systematized so that all effort shall unite and lead in one direction, and
fully imbued with the conviction that war vessels, though new, are useless unless they combine
all that the ingenuity of man has up to this day brought forth relating to their construction.

I earnestly commend the portion of the Secretary's report devoted to this subject to the attention
of Congress, in the hope that his suggestions touching the reorganization of his Department
may be adopted as the first step toward the reconstruction of our Navy.

The affairs of the postal service are exhibited by the report of the Postmaster-General, which
will be laid before you.

The postal revenue, whose ratio of gain upon the rising prosperity of 1882 and 1883 outstripped
the increasing expenses of our growing service, was checked by the reduction in the rate of
letter postage which took effect with the beginning of October in the latter year, and it diminished
during the two past fiscal years $2,790,000, in about the proportion of $2,270,000 in 1884
to $520,000 in 1885. Natural growth and development have meantime increased expenditure, resulting
in a deficiency in the revenue to meet the expenses of the Department of five and a quarter
million dollars for the year 1884 and eight and a third million in the last fiscal year. The
anticipated and natural revival of the revenue has been oppressed and retarded by the unfavorable
business condition of the country, of which the postal service is a faithful indicator. The
gratifying fact is shown, however, by the report that our returning prosperity is marked by
a gain of $380,000 in the revenue of the latter half of the last year over the corresponding
period of the preceding year.

The change in the weight of first-class matter which may be carried for a single rate of postage
from a half ounce to an ounce, and the reduction by one-half of the rate of newspaper postage,
which, under recent legislation, began with the current year, will operate to restrain the
augmentation of receipts which otherwise might have been expected to such a degree that the
scale of expense may gain upon the revenue and cause an increased deficiency to be shown at
its close. Yet, after no long period of reawakened prosperity, by proper economy it is confidently
anticipated that even the present low rates, now as favorable as any country affords, will
be adequate to sustain the cost of the service.

The operation of the Post-Office Department is for the convenience and benefit of the people,
and the method by which they pay the charges of this useful arm of their public service, so
that it be just and impartial, is of less importance to them than the economical expenditure
of the means they provide for its maintenance and the due improvement of its agencies, so that
they may enjoy its highest usefulness.

A proper attention has been directed to the prevention of waste or extravagance, and good results
appear from the report to have already been accomplished.

I approve the recommendation of the Postmaster-General to reduce the charges on domestic money
orders of $5 and less from 8 to 5 cents. This change will materially aid those of our people
who most of all avail themselves of this instrumentality, but to whom the element of cheapness
is of the greatest importance. With this reduction the system would still remain self-supporting.

The free-delivery system has been extended to 19 additional cities during the year, and 178
now enjoy its conveniences. Experience has commended it to those who enjoy its benefits, and
further enlargement of its facilities is due to other communities to which it is adapted. In
the cities where it has been established, taken together the local postage exceeds its maintenance
by nearly $1,300,000. The limit to which this system is now confined by law has been nearly
reached, and the reasons given justify its extension, which is proposed.

It was decided, with my approbation, after a sufficient examination, to be inexpedient for
the Post-Office Department to contract for carrying our foreign mails under the additional
authority given by the last Congress. The amount limited was inadequate to pay all within the
purview of the law the full rate of 50 cents per mile, and it would have been unjust and unwise
to have given it to some and denied it to others. Nor could contracts have been let under the
law to all at a rate to have brought the aggregate within the appropriation without such practical
prearrangement of terms as would have violated it.

The rate of sea and inland postage which was proffered under another statute clearly appears
to be a fair compensation for the desired service, being three times the price necessary to
secure transportation by other vessels upon any route, and much beyond the charges made to
private persons for services not less burdensome.

Some of the steamship companies, upon the refusal of the Postmaster-General to attempt, by
the means provided, the distribution of the sum appropriated as an extra compensation, withdrew
the services of their vessels and thereby occasioned slight inconvenience, though no considerable
injury, the mails having been dispatched by other means.

Whatever may be thought of the policy of subsidizing any line of public conveyance or travel,
I am satisfied that it should not be done under cover of an expenditure incident to the administration
of a Department, nor should there be any uncertainty as to the recipients of the subsidy or
any discretion left to an executive officer as to its distribution. If such gifts of the public
money are to be made for the purpose of aiding any enterprise in the supposed interest of the
public, I can not but think that the amount to be paid and the beneficiary might better be
determined by Congress than in any other way.

The international congress of delegates from the Postal Union countries convened at Lisbon,
in Portugal, in February last, and after a session of some weeks the delegates signed a convention
amendatory of the present postal-union convention in some particulars designed to advance its
purposes. This additional act has had my approval and will be laid before you with the departmental
report.

I approve the recommendation of the postmaster-General that another assistant be provided for
his Department. I invite your consideration to the several other recommendations contained
in his report.

The report of the Attorney-General contains a history of the conduct of the Department of Justice
during the last year and a number of valuable suggestions as to needed legislation, and I invite
your careful attention to the same.

The condition of business in the courts of the United States is such that there seems to be
an imperative necessity for remedial legislation on the subject. Some of these courts are so
overburdened with pending causes that the delays in determining litigation amount often to
a denial of justice. Among the plans suggested for relief is one submitted by the Attorney-General.
Its main features are: The transfer of all the original jurisdiction of the circuit courts
to the district courts and an increase of judges for the latter where necessary; an addition
of judges to the circuit courts, and constituting them exclusively courts of appeal, and reasonably
limiting appeals thereto; further restrictions of the right to remove causes from the State
to Federal courts; permitting appeals to the Supreme Court from the courts of the District
of Columbia and the Territories only in the same cases as they are allowed from State courts,
and guarding against an unnecessary number of appeals from the circuit courts.

I approve the plan thus outlined, and recommend the legislation necessary for its application
to our judicial system.

The present mode of compensating United States marshals and district attorneys should, in my
opinion, be changed. They are allowed to charge against the Government certain fees for services,
their income being measured by the amount of such fees within a fixed limit as to their annual
aggregate. This is a direct inducement for them to make their fees in criminal cases as large
as possible in an effort to reach the maximum sum permitted. As an entirely natural consequence,
unscrupulous marshals are found encouraging frivolous prosecutions, arresting people on petty
charges of crime and transporting them to distant places for examination and trial, for the
purpose of earning mileage and other fees; and district attorneys uselessly attend criminal
examinations far from their places of residence for the express purpose of swelling their accounts
against the Government. The actual expenses incurred in these transactions are also charged
against the Government.

Thus the rights and freedom of our citizens are outraged and public expenditures increased
for the purpose of furnishing public officers pretexts for increasing the measure of their
compensation.

I think marshals and district attorneys should be paid salaries, adjusted by a rule which will
make them commensurate with services fairly rendered.

In connection with this subject I desire to suggest the advisability, if it be found not obnoxious
to constitutional objection, of investing United States commissioners with the power to try
and determine certain violations of law within the grade of misdemeanors. Such trials might
be made to depend upon the option of the accused. The multiplication of small and technical
offenses, especially under the provisions of our internal-revenue law, render some change in
our present system very desirable in the interests of humanity as well as economy. The district
courts are now crowded with petty prosecutions, involving a punishment in case of conviction,
of only a slight fine, while the parties accused are harassed by an enforced attendance upon
courts held hundreds of miles from their homes. If poor and friendless, they are obliged to
remain in jail during months, perhaps, that elapse before a session of the court is held, and
are finally brought to trial surrounded by strangers and with but little real opportunity for
defense. In the meantime frequently the marshal has charged against the Government his fees
for an arrest, the transportation of the accused and the expense of the same, and for summoning
witnesses before a commissioner, a grand jury, and a court; the witnesses have been paid from
the public funds large fees and traveling expenses, and the commissioner and district attorney
have also made their charges against the Government.

This abuse in the administration of our criminal law should be remedied; and if the plan above
suggested is not practicable, some other should be devised.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior, containing an account of the operations of this
important Department and much interesting information, will be submitted for your consideration.

The most intricate and difficult subject in charge of this Department is the treatment and
management of the Indians. I am satisfied that some progress may be noted in their condition
as a result of a prudent administration of the present laws and regulations for their control.

But it is submitted that there is lack of a fixed purpose or policy on this subject, which
should be supplied. It is useless to dilate upon the wrongs of the Indians, and as useless
to indulge in the heartless belief that because their wrongs are revenged in their own atrocious
manner, therefore they should be exterminated.

They are within the care of our Government, and their rights are, or should be, protected from
invasion by the most solemn obligations. They are properly enough called the wards of the Government;
and it should be borne in mind that this guardianship involves on our part efforts for the
improvement of their condition and the enforcement of their rights. There seems to be general
concurrence in the proposition that the ultimate object of their treatment should be their
civilization and citizenship. Fitted by these to keep pace in the march of progress with the
advanced civilization about them, they will readily assimilate with the mass of our population,
assuming the responsibilities and receiving the protection incident to this condition.

The difficulty appears to be in the selection of the means to be at present employed toward
the attainment of this result.

Our Indian population, exclusive of those in Alaska, is reported as numbering 260,000, nearly
all being located on lands set apart for their use and occupation, aggregating over 134,000,000
acres. These lands are included in the boundaries of 171 reservations of different dimensions,
scattered in 21 States and Territories, presenting great variations in climate and in the kind
and quality of their soils. Among the Indians upon these several reservations there exist the
most marked differences in natural traits and disposition and in their progress toward civilization.
While some are lazy, vicious, and stupid, others are industrious, peaceful, and intelligent;
while a portion of them are self-supporting and independent, and have so far advanced in civilization
that they make their own laws, administered through officers of their own choice, and educate
their children in schools of their own establishment and maintenance, others still retain,
in squalor and dependence, almost the savagery of their natural state.

In dealing with this question the desires manifested by the Indians should not be ignored.
Here again we find a great diversity. With some the tribal relation is cherished with the utmost
tenacity, while its hold upon others is considerably relaxed; the love of home is strong with
all, and yet there are those whose attachment to a particular locality is by no means unyielding;
the ownership of their lands in severalty is much desired by some, while by others, and sometimes
among the most civilized, such a distribution would be bitterly opposed.

The variation of their wants, growing out of and connected with the character of their several
locations, should be regarded. Some are upon reservations most fit for grazing, but without
flocks or herds; and some on arable land, have no agricultural implements. While some of the
reservations are double the size necessary to maintain the number of Indians now upon them,
in a few cases, perhaps, they should be enlarged.

Add to all this the difference in the administration of the agencies. While the same duties
are devolved upon all, the disposition of the agents and the manner of their contact with the
Indians have much to do with their condition and welfare. The agent who perfunctorily performs
his duty and slothfully neglects all opportunity to advance their moral and physical improvement
and fails to inspire them with a desire for better things will accomplish nothing in the direction
of their civilization, while he who feels the burden of an important trust and has an interest
in his work will, by consistent example, firm yet considerate treatment, and well-directed
aid and encouragement, constantly lead those under his charge toward the light of their enfranchisement.

The history of all the progress which has been made in the civilization of the Indian I think
will disclose the fact that the beginning has been religious teaching, followed by or accompanying
secular education. While the self-sacrificing and pious men and women who have aided in this
good work by their independent endeavor have for their reward the beneficent results of their
labor and the consciousness of Christian duty well performed, their valuable services should
be fully acknowledged by all who under the law are charged with the control and management
of our Indian wards.

What has been said indicates that in the present condition of the Indians no attempt should
be made to apply a fixed and unyielding plan of action to their varied and varying needs and
circumstances.

The Indian Bureau, burdened as it is with their general oversight and with the details of the
establishment, can hardly possess itself of the minute phases of the particular cases needing
treatment; and thus the propriety of creating an instrumentality auxiliary to those already
established for the care of the Indians suggests itself.

I recommend the passage of a law authorizing the appointment of six commissioners, three of
whom shall be detailed from the Army, to be charged with the duty of a careful inspection from
time to time of all the Indians upon our reservations or subject to the care and control of
the Government, with a view of discovering their exact condition and needs and determining
what steps shall be taken on behalf of the Government to improve their situation in the direction
of their self-support and complete civilization; that they ascertain from such inspection what,
if any, of the reservations may be reduced in area, and in such cases what part not needed
for Indian occupation may be purchased by the Government from the Indians and disposed of for
their benefit; what, if any, Indians may, with their consent, be removed to other reservations,
with a view of their concentration and the sale on their behalf of their abandoned reservations;
what Indian lands now held in common should be allotted in severalty; in what manner and to
what extent the Indians upon the reservations can be placed under the protection of our laws
and subjected to their penalties, and which, if any, Indians should be invested with the right
of citizenship. The powers and functions of the commissioners in regard to these subjects should
be clearly defined, though they should, in conjunction with the Secretary of the Interior,
be given all the authority to deal definitely with the questions presented deemed safe and
consistent.

They should be also charged with the duty of ascertaining the Indians who might properly be
furnished with implements of agriculture, and of what kind; in what cases the support of the
Government should be withdrawn; where the present plan of distributing Indian supplies should
be changed; where schools may be established and where discontinued; the conduct, methods,
and fitness of agents in charge of reservations; the extent to which such reservations are
occupied or intruded upon by unauthorized persons, and generally all matters related to the
welfare and improvement of the Indian.

They should advise with the Secretary of the Interior concerning these matters of detail in
management, and he should be given power to deal with them fully, if he is not now invested
with such power.

This plan contemplates the selection of persons for commissioners who are interested in the
Indian question and who have practical ideas upon the subject of their treatment.

The expense of the Indian Bureau during the last fiscal year was more than six and a halt million
dollars. I believe much of this expenditure might be saved under the plan proposed; that its
economical effects would be increased with its continuance; that the safety of our frontier
settlers would be subserved under its operation, and that the nation would be saved through
its results from the imputation of inhumanity, injustice, and mismanagement.

In order to carry out the policy of allotment of Indian lands in severalty, when deemed expedient,
it will be necessary to have surveys completed of the reservations, and, I hope that provision
will be made for the prosecution of this work.

In May of the present year a small portion of the Chiricahua Apaches on the White Mountain
Reservation, in Arizona, left the reservation and committed a number of murders and depredations
upon settlers in that neighborhood. Though prompt and energetic action was taken by the military,
the renegades eluded capture and escaped into Mexico. The formation of the country through
which these Indians passed, their thorough acquaintance with the same, the speed of their escape,
and the manner in which they scattered and concealed themselves among the mountains near the
scene of their outrages put our soldiers at a great disadvantage in their efforts to capture
them, though the expectation is still entertained that they will be ultimately taken and punished
for their crimes.

The threatening and disorderly conduct of the Cheyennes in the Indian Territory early last
summer caused considerable alarm and uneasiness. Investigation proved that their threatening
attitude was due in a great measure to the occupation of the land of their reservation by immense
herds of cattle, which their owners claimed were rightfully there under certain leases made
by the Indians. Such occupation appearing upon examination to be unlawful notwithstanding these
leases, the intruders were ordered to remove with their cattle from the lands of the Indians
by Executive proclamation. The enforcement of this proclamation had the effect of restoring
peace and order among the Indians, and they are now quiet and well behaved.

By an Executive order issued on February 27, 1885, by my predecessor, a portion of the tract
of country in the territory known as the Old Winnebago and Crow Creek reservations was directed
to be restored to the public domain and opened to settlement under the land laws of the United
States, and a large number of persons entered upon those lands. This action alarmed the Sioux
Indians, who claimed the territory as belonging to their reservation under the treaty of 1868.
This claim was determined, after careful investigation, to be well rounded, and consequently
the Executive order referred to was by proclamation of April 17, 1885, declared to be inoperative
and of no effect, and all persons upon the land were warned to leave. This warning has been
substantially complied with.

The public domain had its origin in cessions of land by the States to the General Government.
The first cession was made by the State of New York, and the largest, which in area exceeded
all the others, by the State of Virginia. The territory the proprietorship of which became
thus vested in the General Government extended from the western line of Pennsylvania to the
Mississippi River. These patriotic donations of the States were encumbered with no condition
except that they should the held and used "for the common benefit of the United States." By
purchase with the common fund of all the people additions were made to this domain until it
extended to the northern line of Mexico, the Pacific Ocean, and the Polar Sea. The original
trust, "for the common benefit of the United States," attached to all. In the execution of
that trust the policy of many homes, rather than large estates, was adopted by the Government.
That these might be easily obtained, and be the abode of security and contentment, the laws
for their acquisition were few, easily understood, and general in their character. But the
pressure of local interests, combined with a speculative spirit, have in many instances procured
the passage of laws which marred the harmony of the general plan and encumbered the system
with a multitude of general and special enactments which render the land laws complicated,
subject the titles to uncertainty, and the purchasers often to oppression and wrong. Laws which
were intended for the "common benefit" have been perverted so that large quantities of land
are vesting in single ownerships. From the multitude and character of the laws, this consequence
seems incapable of correction by mere administration.

It is not for the "common benefit of the United States" that a large area of the public lands
should be acquired, directly or through fraud, in the hands of a single individual. The nation's
strength is in the people. The nation's prosperity is in their prosperity. The nation's glory
is in the equality of her justice. The nation's perpetuity is in the patriotism of all her
people. Hence, as far as practicable, the plan adopted in the disposal of the public lands
should have in view the original policy, which encouraged many purchases of these lands for
homes and discouraged the massing of large areas. Exclusive of Alaska, about three-fifths of
the national domain has been sold or subjected to contract or grant. Of the remaining two-fifths
a considerable portion is either mountain or desert. A rapidly increasing population creates
a growing demand for homes, and the accumulation of wealth inspires an eager competition to
obtain the public land for speculative purposes. In the future this collision of interests
will be more marked than in the past, and the execution of the nation's trust in behalf of
our settlers will be more difficult. I therefore commend to your attention the recommendations
contained in the report of the Secretary of the Interior with reference to the repeal and modification
of certain of our land laws.

The nation has made princely grants and subsidies to a system of railroads projected as great
national highways to connect the Pacific States with the East. It has been charged that these
donations from the people have been diverted to private gain and corrupt uses, and thus public
indignation has been aroused and suspicion engendered. Our great nation does not begrudge its
generosity, but it abhors speculation and fraud; and the favorable regard of our people for
the great corporations to which these grants were made can only be revived by a restoration
of confidence, to be secured by their constant, unequivocal, and clearly manifested integrity.
A faithful application of the undiminished proceeds of the grants to the construction and perfecting
of their roads, an honest discharge of their obligations, and entire justice to all the people
in the enjoyment of their rights on these highways of travel are all the public asks, and it
will be content with no less. To secure these things should be the common purpose of the officers
of the Government, as well as of the corporations. With this accomplishment prosperity would
be permanently secured to the roads, and national pride would take the place of national complaint.

It appears from the report of the Commissioner of Pensions that there were on the 1st day of
July, 1885, 345,125 persons borne upon the pension rolls, who were classified as follows: Army
invalids, 241,456; widows, minor children, and dependent relatives of deceased soldiers, 78,841;
navy invalids, 2,745; navy widows, minor children, and dependents, 1,926; survivors of the
War of 1812, 2,945; and widows of those who served in that war, 17,212. About one man in ten
of all those who enlisted in the late war are reported as receiving pensions, exclusive of
the dependents of deceased soldiers. On the 1st of July, 1875, the number of pensioners was
234,821, and the increase within the ten years next thereafter was 110,304.

While there is no expenditure of the public funds which the people more cheerfully approve
than that made in recognition of the services of our soldiers living and dead, the sentiment
underlying the subject should not be vitiated by the introduction of any fraudulent practices.
Therefore it is fully as important that the rolls should be cleansed of all those who by fraud
have secured a place thereon as that meritorious claims should be speedily examined and adjusted.
The reforms in the methods of doing the business of this Bureau which have lately been inaugurated
promise better results in both these directions.

The operations of the Patent Office demonstrate the activity of the inventive genius of the
country. For the year ended June 30, 1885, the applications for patents, including reissues,
and for the registration of trade-marks and labels, numbered 35,688. During the same period
there were 22,928 patents granted and reissued and 1,429 trade-marks and labels registered.
The number of patents issued in the year 1875 was 14,387. The receipts during the last fiscal
year were $ 1,074,974.35, and the total expenditures, not including contingent expenses, $934,123.11.

There were 9,788 applications for patents pending on the 1st day of July, 1884, and 5,786 on
the same date in the year 1885. There has been considerable improvement made in the prompt
determination of applications and a consequent relief to expectant inventors.

A number of suggestions and recommendations are contained in the report of the Commissioner
of patents which are well entitled to the consideration of Congress.

In the Territory of Utah the law of the United States passed for the Suppression of polygamy
has been energetically and faithfully executed during the past year, with measurably good results.
A number of convictions have been secured for unlawful cohabitation, and in some cases pleas
of guilty have been entered and a slight punishment imposed, upon a promise by the accused
that they would not again offend against the law, nor advise, counsel, aid, or abet in any
way its violation by others.

The Utah commissioners express the opinion, based upon such information as they are able to
obtain, that but few polygamous marriages have taken place in the Territory during the last
year. They further report that while there can not be found upon the registration lists of
voters the name of a man actually guilty of polygamy, and while none of that class are holding
office, yet at the last election in the Territory all the officers elected, except in one county,
were men who, though not actually living in the practice of polygamy, subscribe to the doctrine
of polygamous marriages as a divine revelation and a law unto all higher and more binding upon
the conscience than any human law, local or national. Thus is the strange spectacle presented
of a community protected by a republican form of government, to which they owe allegiance,
sustaining by their suffrages a principle and a belief which set at naught that obligation
of absolute obedience to the law of the land which lies at the foundation of republican institutions.

The strength, the perpetuity, and the destiny of the nation rest upon our homes, established
by the law of God, guarded by parental care, regulated by parental authority, and sanctified
by parental love.

These are not the homes of polygamy.

The mothers of our land, who rule the nation as they mold the characters and guide the actions
of their sons, live according to God's holy ordinances, and each, secure and happy in the exclusive
love of the father of her children, sheds the warm light of true womanhood, unperverted and
unpolluted, upon all within her pure and wholesome family circle.

These are not the cheerless, crushed, and unwomanly mothers of polygamy.

The fathers of our families are the best citizens of the Republic. Wife and children are the
sources of patriotism, and conjugal and parental affection beget devotion to the country. The
man who, undefiled with plural marriage, is surrounded in his single home with his wife and
children has a stake in the country which inspires him with respect for its laws and courage
for its defense.

These are not the fathers of polygamous families.

There is no feature of this practice or the system which sanctions it which is not opposed
to all that is of value in our institutions.

There should be no relaxation in the firm but just execution of the law now in operation, and
I should be glad to approve such further discreet legislation as will rid the country of this
blot upon its fair fame.

Since the people upholding polygamy in our Territories are reenforced by immigration from other
lands, I recommend that a law be passed to prevent the importation of Mormons into the country.

The agricultural interest of the country demands just recognition and liberal encouragement.
It sustains with certainty and unfailing strength our nation's prosperity by the products of
its steady toil, and bears its full share of the burden of taxation without complaint. Our
agriculturists have but slight personal representation in the councils of the nation, and are
generally content with the humbler duties of citizenship and willing to trust to the bounty
of nature for a reward of their labor. But the magnitude and value of this industry are appreciated
when the statement is made that of our total annual exports more than three-fourths are the
products of agriculture, and of our total population nearly one-half are exclusively engaged
in that occupation.

The Department of Agriculture was created for the purpose of acquiring and diffusing among
the people useful information respecting the subjects it has in charge, and aiding in the cause
of intelligent and progressive farming, by the collection of statistics, by testing the value
and usefulness of new seeds and plants, and distributing such as are found desirable among
agriculturists. This and other powers and duties with which this Department is invested are
of the utmost importance, and if wisely exercised must be of great benefit to the country.
The aim of our beneficent Government is the improvement of the people in every station and
the amelioration of their condition. Surely our agriculturists should not be neglected. The
instrumentality established in aid of the farmers of the land should not only be well equipped
for the accomplishment of its purpose, but those for whose benefit it has been adopted should
be encouraged to avail themselves fully of its advantages.

The prohibition of the importation into several countries of certain of our animals and their
products, based upon the suspicion that health is endangered in their use and consumption,
suggests the importance of such precautions for the protection of our stock of all kinds against
disease as will disarm suspicion of danger and cause the removal of such an injurious prohibition.

If the laws now in operation are insufficient to accomplish this protection, I recommend their
amendment to meet the necessities of the situation; and I commend to the consideration of Congress
the suggestions contained in the report of the Commissioner of Agriculture calculated to increase
the value and efficiency of this Department.

The report of the Civil Service Commission, which will be submitted, contains an account of
the manner in which the civil-service law has been executed during the last year and much valuable
information on this important subject.

I am inclined to think that there is no sentiment more general in the minds of the people of
our country than a conviction of the correctness of the principle upon which the law enforcing
civil-service reform is based. In its present condition the law regulates only a part of the
subordinate public positions throughout the country. It applies the test of fitness to applicants
for these places by means of a competitive examination, and gives large discretion to the Commissioners
as to the character of the examination and many other matters connected with its execution.
Thus the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission have much to do with the practical
usefulness of the statute and with the results of its application.

The people may well trust the Commission to execute the law with perfect fairness and with
as little irritation as is possible. But of course no relaxation of the principle which underlies
it and no weakening of the safeguards which surround it can be expected. Experience in its
administration will probably suggest amendment of the methods of its execution, but I venture
to hope that we shall never again be remitted to the system which distributes public positions
purely as rewards for partisan service. Doubts may well be entertained whether our Government
could survive the strain of a continuance of this system, which upon every change of Administration
inspires an immense army of claimants for office to lay siege to the patronage of Government,
engrossing the time of public officers with their importunities, spreading abroad the contagion
of their disappointment, and filling the air with the tumult of their discontent.

The allurements of an immense number of offices and places exhibited to the voters of the land,
and the promise of their bestowal in recognition of partisan activity; debauch the suffrage
and rob political action of its thoughtful and deliberative character. The evil would increase
with the multiplication of offices consequent upon our extension, and the mania for office
holding, growing from its indulgence, would pervade our population so generally that patriotic
purpose, the support of principle, the desire for the public good, and solicitude for the nation's
welfare would be nearly banished from the activity of our party contests and cause them to
degenerate into ignoble, selfish, and disgraceful struggles for the possession of office and
public place.

Civil-service reform enforced by law came none too soon to check the progress of demoralization.

One of its effects, not enough regarded, is the freedom it brings to the political action of
those conservative and sober men who, in fear of the confusion and risk attending an arbitrary
and sudden change in all the public offices with a change of party rule, cast their ballots
against such a chance.

Parties seem to be necessary, and will long continue to exist; nor can it be now denied that
there are legitimate advantages, not disconnected with office holding, which follow party supremacy.
While partisanship continues bitter and pronounced and supplies so much of motive to sentiment
and action, it is not fair to hold public officials in charge of important trusts responsible
for the best results in the performance of their duties, and yet insist that they shall rely
in confidential and important places upon the work of those not only opposed to them in political
affiliation, but so steeped in partisan prejudice and rancor that they have no loyalty to their
chiefs and no desire for their success. Civil-service reform does not exact this, nor does
it require that those in subordinate positions who fail in yielding their best service or who
are incompetent should be retained simply because they are in place. The whining of a clerk
discharged for indolence or incompetency, who, though he gained his place by the worst possible
operation of the spoils system, suddenly discovers that he is entitled to protection under
the sanction of civil-service reform, represents an idea no less absurd than the clamor of
the applicant who claims the vacant position as his compensation for the most questionable
party work.

The civil-service law does not prevent the discharge of the indolent or incompetent clerk,
but it does prevent supplying his place with the unfit party worker. Thus in both these phases
is seen benefit to the public service. And the people who desire good government, having secured
this statute, will not relinquish its benefits without protest. Nor are they unmindful of the
fact that its full advantages can only be gained through the complete good faith of those having
its execution in charge. And this they will insist upon.

I recommend that the salaries of the Civil Service Commissioners be increased to a sum more
nearly commensurate to their important duties.

It is a source of considerable and not unnatural discontent that no adequate provision has
yet been made for accommodating the principal library of the Government. Of the vast collection
of books and pamphlets gathered at the Capitol, numbering some 700,000, exclusive of manuscripts,
maps, and the products of the graphic arts, also of great volume and value, only about 300,000
volumes, or less than half the collection, are provided with shelf room. The others, which
are increasing at the rate of from twenty-five to thirty thousand volumes a year, are not only
inaccessible to the public, but are subject to serious damage and deterioration from other
causes in their present situation.

A consideration of the facts that the library of the Capitol has twice been destroyed or damaged
by fire, its daily increasing value, and its importance as a place of deposit of books under
the law relating to copyright makes manifest the necessity of prompt action to insure its proper
accommodation and protection.

My attention has been called to a controversy which has arisen from the condition of the law
relating to railroad facilities in the city of Washington, which has involved the Commissioners
of the District in much annoyance and trouble. I hope this difficulty will be promptly settled
by appropriate legislation.

The Commissioners represent that enough of the revenues of the District are now on deposit
in the Treasury of the United States to repay the sum advanced by the Government for sewer
improvements under the act of June 30, 1884. They desire now an advance of the share which
ultimately should be borne by the District of the cost of extensive improvements to the streets
of the city. The total expense of these contemplated improvements is estimated at $1,000,000,
and they are of the opinion that a considerable sum could be saved if they had all the money
in hand, so that contracts for the whole work could be made at the same time. They express
confidence that if the advance asked for should be made the Government would be reimbursed
the same within a reasonable time. I have no doubt that these improvements could be made much
cheaper if undertaken together and prosecuted according to a general plan.

The license law now in force within the District is deficient and uncertain in some of its
provisions and ought to be amended. The Commissioners urge, with good reason, the necessity
of providing a building for the use of the District government which shall better secure the
safety and preservation of its valuable books and records.

The present condition of the law relating to the succession to the Presidency in the event
of the death, disability, or removal of both the President and Vice-President is such as to
require immediate amendment. This subject has repeatedly been considered by Congress, but no
result has been reached. The recent lamentable death of the Vice-President, and vacancies at
the same time in all other offices the incumbents of which might immediately exercise the functions
of the presidential office, has caused public anxiety and a just demand that a recurrence of
such a condition of affairs should not be permitted.

In conclusion I commend to the wise care and thoughtful attention of Congress the needs, the
welfare, and the aspirations of an intelligent and generous nation. To subordinate these to
the narrow advantages of partisanship or the accomplishment of selfish aims is to violate the
people's trust and betray the people's interests; but an individual sense of responsibility
on the part of each of us and a stern determination to perform our duty well must give us place
among those who have added in their day and generation to the glory and prosperity of our beloved
land.

***

State of the Union Address Grover Cleveland December 6, 1886

To the Congress of the United States:

In discharge of a constitutional duty, and following a well-established precedent in the Executive
office, I herewith transmit to the Congress at its reassembling certain information concerning
the state of the Union, together with such recommendations for legislative consideration as
appear necessary and expedient.

Our Government has consistently maintained its relations of friendship toward all other powers
and of neighborly interest toward those whose possessions are contiguous to our own. Few questions
have arisen during the past year with other governments, and none of those are beyond the reach
of settlement in friendly counsel.

We are as yet without provision for the settlement of claims of citizens of the United States
against Chile for injustice during the late war with Peru and Bolivia. The mixed commissions
organized under claims conventions concluded by the Chilean Government with certain European
States have developed an amount of friction which we trust can be avoided in the convention
which our representative at Santiago is authorized to negotiate.

The cruel treatment of inoffensive Chinese has, I regret to say, been repeated in some of the
far Western States and Territories, and acts of violence against those people, beyond the power
of the local constituted authorities to prevent and difficult to punish, are reported even
in distant Alaska. Much of this violence can be traced to race prejudice and competition of
labor, which can not, however, justify the oppression of strangers whose safety is guaranteed
by our treaty with China equally with the most favored nations.

In opening our vast domain to alien elements the purpose of our lawgivers was to invite assimilation,
and not to provide an arena for endless antagonism. The paramount duty of maintaining public
order and defending the interests of our own people may require the adoption of measures of
restriction, but they should not tolerate the oppression of individuals of a special race.
I am not without assurance that the Government of China, whose friendly disposition toward
us I am most happy to recognize, will meet us halfway in devising a comprehensive remedy by
which an effective limitation of Chinese emigration, joined to protection of those Chinese
subjects who remain in this country, may be secured.

Legislation is needed to execute the provisions of our Chinese convention of 1880 touching
the opium traffic.

While the good will of the Colombian Government toward our country is manifest, the situation
of American interests on the Isthmus of Panama has at times excited concern and invited friendly
action looking to the performance of the engagements of the two nations concerning the territory
embraced in the interoceanic transit. With the subsidence of the Isthmian disturbances and
the erection of the State of Panama into a federal district under the direct government of
the constitutional administration at Bogota, a new order of things has been inaugurated, which,
although as yet somewhat experimental and affording scope for arbitrary exercise of power by
the delegates of the national authority, promises much improvement.

The sympathy between the people of the United States and France, born during our colonial struggle
for independence and continuing today, has received a fresh impulse in the successful completion
and dedication of the colossal statue of "Liberty Enlightening the World" in New York Harbor--the
gift of Frenchmen to Americans.

A convention between the United States and certain other powers for the protection of submarine
cables was signed at Paris on March 14, 1884, and has been duly ratified and proclaimed by
this Government. By agreement between the high contracting parties this convention is to go
into effect on the 1st of January next, but the legislation required for its execution in the
United States has not yet been adopted. I earnestly recommend its enactment.

Cases have continued to occur in Germany giving rise to much correspondence in relation to
the privilege of sojourn of our naturalized citizens of German origin revisiting the land of
their birth, yet I am happy to state that our relations with that country have lost none of
their accustomed cordiality.

The claims for interest upon the amount of tonnage dues illegally exacted from certain German
steamship lines were favorably reported in both Houses of Congress at the last session, and
I trust will receive final and favorable action at an early day.

The recommendations contained in my last annual message in relation to a mode of settlement
of the fishery rights in the waters of British North America, so long a subject of anxious
difference between the United States and Great Britain, was met by an adverse vote of the Senate
on April 13 last, and thereupon negotiations were instituted to obtain an agreement with Her
Britannic Majesty's Government for the promulgation of such joint interpretation and definition
of the article of the convention of 1818 relating to the territorial waters and inshore fisheries
of the British Provinces as should secure the Canadian rights from encroachment by the United
States fishermen and at the same time insure the enjoyment by the latter of the privileges
guaranteed to them by such convention.

The questions involved are of long standing, of grave consequence, and from time to time for
nearly three-quarters of a century have given rise to earnest international discussions, not
unaccompanied by irritation.

Temporary arrangements by treaties have served to allay friction, which, however, has revived
as each treaty was terminated. The last arrangement, under the treaty of 1871, was abrogated
after due notice by the United States on June 30, 1885, but I was enabled to obtain for our
fishermen for the remainder of that season enjoyment of the full privileges accorded by the
terminated treaty.

The joint high commission by whom the treaty had been negotiated, although invested with plenary
power to make a permanent settlement, were content with a temporary arrangement, after the
termination of which the question was relegated to the stipulations of the treaty of 1818,
as to the first article of which no construction satisfactory to both countries has ever been
agreed upon.

The progress of civilization and growth of population in the British Provinces to which the
fisheries in question are contiguous and the expansion of commercial intercourse between them
and the United States present to-day a condition of affairs scarcely realizable at the date
of the negotiations of 1818.

New and vast interests have been brought into existence; modes of intercourse between the respective
countries have been invented and multiplied; the methods of conducting the fisheries have been
wholly changed; and all this is necessarily entitled to candid and careful consideration in
the adjustment of the terms and conditions of intercourse and commerce between the United States
and their neighbors along a frontier of over 3,500 miles.

This propinquity, community of language and occupation, and similarity of political and social
institutions indicate the practicability and obvious wisdom of maintaining mutually beneficial
and friendly relations.

Whilst I am unfeignedly desirous that such relations should exist between us and the inhabitants
of Canada, yet the action of their officials during the past season toward our fishermen has
been such as to seriously threaten their continuance.

Although disappointed in my efforts to secure a satisfactory settlement of the fishery question,
negotiations are still pending, with reasonable hope that before the close of the present session
of Congress announcement may be made that an acceptable conclusion has been reached.

As at an early day there may be laid before Congress the correspondence of the Department of
State in relation to this important subject, so that the history of the past fishing season
may be fully disclosed and the action and the attitude of the Administration clearly comprehended,
a more extended reference is not deemed necessary in this communication.

The recommendation submitted last year that provision be made for a preliminary reconnoissance
of the conventional boundary line between Alaska and British Columbia is renewed.

I express my unhesitating conviction that the intimacy of our relations with Hawaii should
be emphasized. As a result of the reciprocity treaty of 1875, those islands, on the highway
of Oriental and Australasian traffic, are virtually an outpost of American commerce and a stepping-stone
to the growing trade of the Pacific. The Polynesian Island groups have been so absorbed by
other and more powerful governments that the Hawaiian Islands are left almost alone in the
enjoyment of their autonomy, which it is important for us should be preserved. Our treaty is
now terminable on one year's notice, but propositions to abrogate it would be, in my judgment,
most ill advised. The paramount influence we have there acquired, once relinquished, could
only with difficulty be regained, and a valuable ground of vantage for ourselves might be converted
into a stronghold for our commercial competitors. I earnestly recommend that the existing treaty
stipulations be extended for a further term of seven years. A recently signed treaty to this
end is now before the Senate.

The importance of telegraphic communication between those islands and the United States should
not be overlooked.

The question of a general revision of the treaties of Japan is again under discussion at Tokyo.
As the first to open relations with that Empire, and as the nation in most direct commercial
relations with Japan, the United States have lost no opportunity to testify their consistent
friendship by supporting the just claims of Japan to autonomy and independence among nations.

A treaty of extradition between the United States and Japan, the first concluded by that Empire,
has been lately proclaimed.

The weakness of Liberia and the difficulty of maintaining effective sovereignty over its outlying
districts have exposed that Republic to encroachment. It can not be forgotten that this distant
community is an offshoot of our own system, owing its origin to the associated benevolence
of American citizens, whose praiseworthy efforts to create a nucleus of civilization in the
Dark Continent have commanded respect and sympathy everywhere, especially in this country.
Although a formal protectorate over Liberia is contrary to our traditional policy, the moral
right and duty of the United States to assist in all proper ways in the maintenance of its
integrity is obvious, and has been consistently announced during nearly half a century. I recommend
that in the reorganization of our Navy a small vessel, no longer found adequate to our needs,
be presented to Liberia, to be employed by it in the protection of its coastwise revenues.

The encouraging development of beneficial and intimate relations between the United States
and Mexico, which has been so marked within the past few years, is at once the occasion of
congratulation and of friendly solicitude. I urgently renew my former representation of the
need or speedy legislation by Congress to carry into effect the reciprocity commercial convention
of January 20, 1883.

Our commercial treaty of 1831 with Mexico was terminated, according to its provisions, in 1881,
upon notification given by Mexico in pursuance of her announced policy of recasting all her
commercial treaties. Mexico has since concluded with several foreign governments new treaties
of commerce and navigation, defining alien rights of trade, property, and residence, treatment
of shipping, consular privileges, and the like. Our yet unexecuted reciprocity convention of
1883 covers none of these points, the settlement of which is so necessary to good relationship.
I propose to initiate with Mexico negotiations for a new and enlarged treaty of commerce and
navigation.

In compliance with a resolution of the Senate, I communicated to that body on August 2 last,
and also to the House of Representatives, the correspondence in the case of A. K. Cutting,
an American citizen, then imprisoned in Mexico, charged with the commission of a penal offense
in Texas, of which a Mexican citizen was the object.

After demand had been made for his release the charge against him was amended so as to include
a violation of Mexican law within Mexican territory.

This joinder of alleged offenses, one within and the other exterior to Mexico, induced me to
order a special investigation of the case, pending which Mr. Cutting was released.

The incident has, however, disclosed a claim of jurisdiction by Mexico novel in our history,
whereby any offense committed anywhere by a foreigner, penal in the place of its commission,
and of which a Mexican is the object, may, if the offender be found in Mexico, be there tried
and punished in conformity with Mexican laws.

This jurisdiction was sustained by the courts of Mexico in the Cutting case, and approved by
the executive branch of that Government, upon the authority of a Mexican statute. The appellate
court in releasing Mr. Cutting decided that the abandonment of the complaint by the Mexican
citizen aggrieved by the alleged crime (a libelous publication) removed the basis of further
prosecution, and also declared justice to have been satisfied by the enforcement of a small
part of the original sentence.

The admission of such a pretension would be attended with serious results, invasive of the
jurisdiction of this Government and highly dangerous to our citizens in foreign lands. Therefore
I have denied it and protested against its attempted exercise as unwarranted by the principles
of law and international usages.

A sovereign has jurisdiction of offenses which take effect within his territory, although concocted
or commenced outside of it; but the right is denied of any foreign sovereign to punish a citizen
of the United States for an offense consummated on our soil in violation of our laws, even
though the offense be against a subject or citizen of such sovereign. The Mexican statute in
question makes the claim broadly, and the principle, if conceded, would create a dual responsibility
in the citizen and lead to inextricable confusion, destructive of that certainty in the law
which is an essential of liberty.

When citizens of the United States voluntarily go into a foreign country, they must abide by
the laws there in force, and will not be protected by their own Government from the consequences
of an offense against those laws committed in such foreign country; but watchful care and interest
of this Government over its citizens are not relinquished because they have gone abroad, and
if charged with crime committed in the foreign land a fair and open trial, conducted with decent
regard for justice and humanity, will be demanded for them. With less than that this Government
will not be content when the life or liberty of its citizens is at stake.

Whatever the degree to which extraterritorial criminal jurisdiction may have been formerly
allowed by consent and reciprocal agreement among certain of the European States, no such doctrine
or practice was ever known to the laws of this country or of that from which our institutions
have mainly been derived.

In the case of Mexico there are reasons especially strong for perfect harmony in the mutual
exercise of jurisdiction. Nature has made us irrevocably neighbors, and wisdom and kind feeling
should make us friends.

The overflow of capital and enterprise from the United States is a potent factor in assisting
the development of the resources of Mexico and in building up the prosperity of both countries.

To assist this good work all grounds of apprehension for the security of person and property
should be removed; and I trust that in the interests of good neighborhood the statute referred
to will be so modified as to eliminate the present possibilities of danger to the peace of
the two countries.

The Government of the Netherlands has exhibited concern in relation to certain features of
our tariff laws, which are supposed by them to be aimed at a class of tobacco produced in the
Dutch East Indies. Comment would seem unnecessary upon the unwisdom of legislation appearing
to have a special national discrimination for its object, which, although unintentional, may
give rise to injurious retaliation.

The establishment, less than four years ago, of a legation at Teheran is bearing fruit in the
interest exhibited by the Shah's Government in the industrial activity of the United States
and the opportunities of beneficial interchanges.

Stable government is now happily restored in Peru by the election of a constitutional president,
and a period of rehabilitation is entered upon; but the recovery is necessarily slow from the
exhaustion caused by the late war and civil disturbances. A convention to adjust by arbitration
claims of our citizens has been proposed and is under consideration.

The naval officer who bore to Siberia the testimonials bestowed by Congress in recognition
of the aid given to the Jeannette survivors has successfully accomplished his mission. His
interesting report will be submitted. It is pleasant to know that this mark of appreciation
has been welcomed by the Russian Government and people as befits the traditional friendship
of the two countries.

Civil perturbations in the Samoan Islands have during the past few years been a source of considerable
embarrassment to the three Governments-Germany, Great Britain, and the United States--whose
relations and extraterritorial rights in that important group are guaranteed by treaties. The
weakness of the native administration and the conflict of opposing interests in the islands
have led King Malietoa to seek alliance or protection in some one quarter, regardless of the
distinct engagements whereby no one of the three treaty powers may acquire any paramount or
exclusive interest. In May last Malietoa offered to place Samoa under the protection of the
United States, and the late consul, without authority, assumed to grant it. The proceeding
was promptly disavowed and the overzealous official recalled. Special agents of the three Governments
have been deputed to examine the situation in the islands. With a change in the representation
of all three powers and a harmonious understanding between them, the peace, prosperity, autonomous
administration, and neutrality of Samoa can hardly fail to be secured.

It appearing that the Government of Spain did not extend to the flag of the United States in
the Antilles the full measure of reciprocity requisite under our statute for the continuance
of the suspension of discriminations against the Spanish flag in our ports, I was constrained
in October last to rescind my predecessor's proclamation of February 14, 1884, permitting such
suspension. An arrangement was, however, speedily reached, and upon notification from the Government
of Spain that all differential treatment of our vessels and their cargoes, from the United
States or from any foreign country, had been completely and absolutely relinquished, I availed
myself of the discretion conferred by law and issued on the 27th of October my proclamation
declaring reciprocal suspension in the United States. It is most gratifying to bear testimony
to the earnest spirit in which the Government of the Queen Regent has met our efforts to avert
the initiation of commercial discriminations and reprisals, which are ever disastrous to the
material interests and the political good will of the countries they may affect.

The profitable development of the large commercial exchanges between the United States and
the Spanish Antilles is naturally an object of solicitude. Lying close at our doors, and finding
here their main markets of supply and demand, the welfare of Cuba and Puerto Rico and their
production and trade are scarcely less important to us than to Spain. Their commercial and
financial movements are so naturally a part of our system that no obstacle to fuller and freer
intercourse should be permitted to exist. The standing instructions of our representatives
at Madrid and Havana have for years been to leave no effort unessayed to further these ends,
and at no time has the equal good desire of Spain been more hopefully manifested than now.

The Government of Spain, by removing the consular tonnage fees on cargoes shipped to the Antilles
and by reducing passport fees, has shown its recognition of the needs of less trammeled intercourse.

An effort has been made during the past year to remove the hindrances to the proclamation of
the treaty of naturalization with the Sublime Porte, signed in 1874, which has remained inoperative
owing to a disagreement of interpretation of the clauses relative to the effects of the return
to and sojourn of a naturalized citizen in the land of origin. I trust soon to be able to announce
a favorable settlement of the differences as to this interpretation.

It has been highly satisfactory to note the improved treatment of American missionaries in
Turkey, as has been attested by their acknowledgments to our late minister to that Government
of his successful exertions in their behalf.

The exchange of ratifications of the convention of December 5, 1885, with Venezuela, for the
reopening of the awards of the Caracas Commission under the claims convention of 1866, has
not yet been effected, owing to the delay of the Executive of that Republic in ratifying the
measure. I trust that this postponement will be brief; but should it much longer continue,
the delay may well be regarded as a rescission of the compact and a failure on the part of
Venezuela to complete an arrangement so persistently sought by her during many years and assented
to by this Government in a spirit of international fairness, although to the detriment of holders
of bona fide awards of the impugned commission.

I renew the recommendation of my last annual message that existing legislation concerning citizenship
and naturalization be revised. We have treaties with many states providing for the renunciation
of citizenship by naturalized aliens, but no statute is found to give effect to such engagements,
nor any which provides a needed central bureau for the registration of naturalized citizens.

Experience suggests that our statutes regulating extradition might be advantageously amended
by a provision for the transit across our territory, now a convenient thoroughfare of travel
from one foreign country to another, of fugitives surrendered by a foreign government to a
third state. Such provisions are not unusual in the legislation of other countries, and tend
to prevent the miscarriage of justice. It is also desirable, in order to remove present uncertainties,
that authority should be conferred on the Secretary of State to issue a certificate, in case
of an arrest for the purpose of extradition, to the officer before whom the proceeding is pending,
showing that a requisition for the surrender of the person charged has been duly made. Such
a certificate, if required to be received before the prisoner's examination, would prevent
a long and expensive judicial inquiry into a charge which the foreign government might not
desire to press. I also recommend that express provision be made for the immediate discharge
from custody of persons committed for extradition where the President is of opinion that surrender
should not be made.

The drift of sentiment in civilized communities toward full recognition of the rights of property
in the creations of the human intellect has brought about the adoption by many important nations
of an international copyright convention, which was signed at Berne on the 18th of September,
1885. I trust the subject will receive at your hands the attention it deserves, and that the
just claims of authors, so urgently pressed, will be duly heeded.

Representations continue to be made to me of the injurious effect upon American artists studying
abroad and having free access to the art collections of foreign countries of maintaining a
discriminating duty against the introduction of the works of their brother artists of other
countries, and I am induced to repeat my recommendation for the abolition of that tax.

Pursuant to a provision of the diplomatic and consular appropriation act approved July 1, 1886,
the estimates submitted by the Secretary of State for the maintenance of the consular service
have been recast on the basis of salaries for all officers to whom such allowance is deemed
advisable. Advantage has been taken of this to redistribute the salaries of the offices now
appropriated for, in accordance with the work performed, the importance of the representative
duties of the incumbent, and the cost of living at each post. The last consideration has been
too often lost sight of in the allowances heretofore made. The compensation which may suffice
for the decent maintenance of a worthy and capable officer in a position of onerous and representative
trust at a post readily accessible, and where the necessaries of life are abundant and cheap,
may prove an inadequate pittance in distant lands, where the better part of a year's pay is
consumed in reaching the post of duty, and where the comforts of ordinary civilized existence
can only be obtained with difficulty and at exorbitant cost. I trust that in considering the
submitted schedules no mistaken theory of economy will perpetuate a system which in the past
has virtually closed to deserving talent many offices where capacity and attainments of a high
order are indispensable, and in not a few instances has brought discredit on our national character
and entailed embarrassment and even suffering on those deputed to uphold our dignity and interests
abroad.

In connection with this subject I earnestly reiterate the practical necessity of supplying
some mode of trustworthy inspection and report of the manner in which the consulates are conducted.
In the absence of such reliable information efficiency can scarcely be rewarded or its opposite
corrected.

Increasing competition in trade has directed attention to the value of the consular reports
printed by the Department of State, and the efforts of the Government to extend the practical
usefulness of these reports have created a wider demand for them at home and a spirit of emulation
abroad. Constituting a record at the changes occurring in trade and of the progress of the
arts and invention in foreign countries, they are much sought for by all interested in the
subjects which they embrace.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury exhibits in detail the condition of the public
finances and of the several branches of the Government related to his Department. I especially
direct the attention of the Congress to the recommendations contained in this and the last
preceding report of the Secretary touching the simplification and amendment of the laws relating
to the collection of our revenues, and in the interest of economy and justice to the Government
I hope they may be adopted by appropriate legislation.

The ordinary receipts of the Government for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1886, were $336,439,727.06.
Of this amount $192,905,023.41 was received from customs and $116,805,936.48 from internal
revenue. The total receipts, as here stated, were $13,749,020.68 greater than for the previous
year, but the increase from customs was $11,434,084.10 and from internal revenue $4,407,210.94,
making a gain in these items for the last year of $15,841,295.04, a falling off in other resources
reducing the total increase to the smaller amount mentioned.

The expense at the different custom-houses of collecting this increased customs revenue was
less than the expense attending the collection of such revenue for the preceding year by $490,608,
and the increased receipts of internal revenue were collected at a cost to the Internal-Revenue
Bureau $155,944.99 less than the expense of such collection for the previous year.

The total ordinary expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1886, were
$242,483,138.50, being less by $17,788,797 than such expenditures for the year preceding, and
leaving a surplus in the Treasury at the close of the last fiscal year of $93,956,588.56, as
against $63,463,771.27 at the close of the previous year, being an increase in such surplus
of $30,492,817.29.

The expenditures are compared with those of the preceding fiscal year and classified as follows:

For the current year to end June 30, 1887, the ascertained receipts up to October 1, 1886,
with such receipts estimated for the remainder of the year, amount to $356,000,000.

The expenditures ascertained and estimated for the same period are $266,000,000, indicating
an anticipated surplus at the close of the year of $90,000,000.

The total value of the exports from the United States to foreign countries during the fiscal
year is stated and compared with the preceding year as follows:

The value of some of our leading exports during the last fiscal year, as compared with the
value of the same for the year immediately preceding, is here given, and furnishes information
both interesting and suggestive:

Our imports during the last fiscal year, as compared with the previous year, were as follows:

In my last annual message to the Congress attention was directed to the fact that the revenues
of the Government exceeded its actual needs, and it was suggested that legislative action should
be taken to relieve the people from the unnecessary burden of taxation thus made apparent.

In view of the pressing importance of the subject I deem it my duty to again urge its consideration.

The income of the Government, by its increased volume and through economies in its collection,
is now more than ever in excess of public necessities. The application of the surplus to the
payment of such portion of the public debt as is now at our option subject to extinguishment,
if continued at the rate which has lately prevailed, would retire that class of indebtedness
within less than one year from this date. Thus a continuation of our present revenue system
would soon result in the receipt of an annual income much greater than necessary to meet Government
expenses, with no indebtedness upon which it could be applied. We should then be confronted
with a vast quantity of money, the circulating medium of the people, hoarded in the Treasury
when it should be in their hands, or we should be drawn into wasteful public extravagance,
with all the corrupting national demoralization which follows in its train.

But it is not the simple existence of this surplus and its threatened attendant evils which
furnish the strongest argument against our present scale of Federal taxation. Its worst phase
is the exaction of such a surplus through a perversion of the relations between the people
and their Government and a dangerous departure from the rules which limit the right of Federal
taxation.

Good government, and especially the government of which every American citizen boasts, has
for its objects the protection of every person within its care in the greatest liberty consistent
with the good order of society and his perfect security in the enjoyment of his earnings with
the least possible diminution for public needs. When more of the people's substance is exacted
through the form of taxation than is necessary to meet the just obligations of the Government
and the expense of its economical administration, such exaction becomes ruthless extortion
and a violation of the fundamental principles of a free government.

The indirect manner in which these exactions are made has a tendency to conceal their true
character and their extent. But we have arrived at a stage of superfluous revenue which has
aroused the people to a realization of the fact that the amount raised professedly for the
support of the Government is paid by them as absolutely if added to the price of the things
which supply their daily wants as if it was paid at fixed periods into the hand of the tax
gatherer.

Those who toil for daily wages are beginning to understand that capital, though sometimes vaunting
its importance and clamoring for the protection and favor of the Government, is dull and sluggish
till, touched by the magical hand of labor, it springs into activity, furnishing an occasion
for Federal taxation and gaining the value which enables it to bear its burden. And the laboring
man is thoughtfully inquiring whether in these circumstances, and considering the tribute he
constantly pays into the public Treasury as he supplies his daily wants, he receives his fair
share of advantages.

There is also a suspicion abroad that the surplus of our revenues indicates abnormal and exceptional
business profits, which, under the system which produces such surplus, increase without corresponding
benefit to the people at large the vast accumulations of a few among our citizens, whose fortunes,
rivaling the wealth of the most favored in antidemocratic nations, are not the natural growth
of a steady, plain, and industrious republic.

Our farmers, too, and those engaged directly and indirectly in supplying the products of agriculture,
see that day by day, and as often as the daily wants of their households recur, they are forced
to pay excessive and needless taxation, while their products struggle in foreign markets with
the competition of nations, which, by allowing a freer exchange of productions than we permit,
enable their people to sell for prices which distress the American farmer.

As every patriotic citizen rejoices in the constantly increasing pride of our people in American
citizenship and in the glory of our national achievements and progress, a sentiment prevails
that the leading strings useful to a nation in its infancy may well be to a great extent discarded
in the present stage of American ingenuity, courage, and fearless self-reliance; and for the
privilege of indulging this sentiment with true American enthusiasm our citizens are quite
willing to forego an idle surplus in the public Treasury.

And all the people know that the average rate of Federal taxation upon imports is to-day, in
time of peace, but little less, while upon some articles of necessary consumption it is actually
more, than was imposed by the grievous burden willingly borne at a time when the Government
needed millions to maintain by war the safety and integrity of the Union.

It has been the policy of the Government to collect the principal part of its revenues by a
tax upon imports, and no change in this policy is desirable. But the present condition of affairs
constrains our people to demand that by a revision of our revenue laws the receipts of the
Government shall be reduced to the necessary expense of its economical administration; and
this demand should be recognized and obeyed by the people's representatives in the legislative
branch of the Government.

In readjusting the burdens of Federal taxation a sound public policy requires that such of
our citizens as have built up large and important industries under present conditions should
not be suddenly and to their injury deprived of advantages to which they have adapted their
business; but if the public good requires it they should be content with such consideration
as shall deal fairly and cautiously with their interests, while the just demand of the people
for relief from needless taxation is honestly answered.

A reasonable and timely submission to such a demand should certainly be possible without disastrous
shock to any interest; and a cheerful concession sometimes averts abrupt and heedless action,
often the outgrowth of impatience and delayed justice.

Due regard should be also accorded in any proposed readjustment to the interests of American
labor so far as they are involved. We congratulate ourselves that there is among us no laboring
class fixed within unyielding bounds and doomed under all conditions to the inexorable fate
of daily toil. We recognize in labor a chief factor in the wealth of the Republic, and we treat
those who have it in their keeping as citizens entitled to the most careful regard and thoughtful
attention. This regard and attention should be awarded them, not only because labor is the
capital of our workingmen, justly entitled to its share of Government favor, but for the further
and not less important reason that the laboring man, surrounded by his family in his humble
home, as a consumer is vitally interested in all that cheapens the cost of living and enables
him to bring within his domestic circle additional comforts and advantages.

This relation of the workingman to the revenue laws of the country and the manner in which
it palpably influences the question of wages should not be forgotten in the justifiable prominence
given to the proper maintenance of the supply and protection of well-paid labor. And these
considerations suggest such an arrangement of Government revenues as shall reduce the expense
of living, while it does not curtail the opportunity for work nor reduce the compensation of
American labor and injuriously affect its condition and the dignified place it holds in the
estimation of our people.

But our farmers and agriculturists--those who from the soil produce the things consumed by
all--are perhaps more directly and plainly concerned than any other of our citizens in a just
and careful system of Federal taxation. Those actually engaged in and more remotely connected
with this kind of work number nearly one-half of our population. None labor harder or more
continuously than they. No enactments limit their hours of toil and no interposition of the
Government enhances to any great extent the value of their products. And yet for many of the
necessaries and comforts of life, which the most scrupulous economy enables them to bring into
their homes, and for their implements of husbandry, they are obliged to pay a price largely
increased by an unnatural profit, which by the action of the Government is given to the more
favored manufacturer.

I recommend that, keeping in view all these considerations, the increasing and unnecessary
surplus of national income annually accumulating be released to the people by an amendment
to our revenue laws which shall cheapen the price of the necessaries of life and give freer
entrance to such imported materials as by American labor may be manufactured into marketable
commodities.

Nothing can be accomplished, however, in the direction of this much-needed reform unless the
subject is approached in a patriotic spirit of devotion to the interests of the entire country
and with a willingness to yield something for the public good.

During the twelve months ended October 31,1886, 3 per cent bonds were called for redemption
amounting to $127,283,100, of which $80,643,200 was so called to answer the requirements of
the law relating to the sinking fund and $46,639,900 for the purpose of reducing the public
debt by application of a part of the surplus in the Treasury to that object. Of the bonds thus
called $102,269,450 became subject under such calls to redemption prior to November 1, 1886.
The remainder, amounting to $25,013,650, matured under the calls after that date.

In addition to the amount subject to payment and cancellation prior to November 1, there were
also paid before that day certain of these bonds, with the interest thereon, amounting to $5,072,350,
which were anticipated as to their maturity, of which $2,664,850 had not been called, Thus
$107,341,800 had been actually applied prior to the 1st of November, 1886, to the extinguishment
of our bonded and interest-bearing debt, leaving on that day still outstanding the sum of $1,153,443,112.
Of this amount $86,848,700 were still represented by 3 per cent bonds. They however, have been
since November 1, or will at once be, further reduced by $22,606,150, being bonds which have
been called, as already stated, but not redeemed and canceled before the latter date.

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1886, there were coined, under the compulsory silver-coinage
act of 1878,29,838,905 silver dollars, and the cost of the silver used in such coinage was
$23,448,960.01. There had been coined up to the close of the previous fiscal year under the
provisions of the law 203,882,554 silver dollars, and on the 1st day of December, 1886, the
total amount of such coinage was $247,131,549.

The Director of the Mint reports that at the time of the passage of the law of 1878 directing
this coinage the intrinsic value of the dollars thus coined was 94 1/4 cents each, and that
on the 31st day of July, 1886, the price of silver reached the lowest stage ever known, so
that the intrinsic or bullion price of our standard silver dollar at that date was less than
72 cents. The price of silver on the 30th day of November last was such as to make these dollars
intrinsically worth 78 cents each.

These differences in value of the coins represent the fluctuations in the price of silver,
and they certainly do not indicate that compulsory coinage by the Government enhances the price
of that commodity or secures uniformity in its value.

Every fair and legal effort has been made by the Treasury Department to distribute this currency
among the people. The withdrawal of United States Treasury notes of small denominations and
the issuing of small silver certificates have been resorted to in the endeavor to accomplish
this result, in obedience to the will and sentiments of the representatives of the people in
the Congress. On the 27th day of November, 1886, the people held of these coins, or certificates
representing them, the nominal sum of $166,873,041, and we still had $79,464,345 in the Treasury
as against about $142,894,055 so in the hands of the people and $72,865,376 remaining in the
Treasury one year ago. The Director of the Mint again urges the necessity of more vault room
for the purpose of storing these silver dollars which are not needed for circulation by the people.

I have seen no reason to change the views expressed in my last annual message on the subject
of this compulsory coinage, and I again urge its suspension on all the grounds contained in
my former recommendation, reenforced by the significant increase of our gold exportations during
the last year, as appears by the comparative statement herewith presented, and for the further
reasons that the more this currency is distributed among the people the greater becomes our
duty to protect it from disaster, that we now have abundance for all our needs, and that there
seems but little propriety in building vaults to store such currency when the only pretense
for its coinage is the necessity of its use by the people as a circulating medium.

The great number of suits now pending in the United States courts for the southern district
of New York growing out of the collection of customs revenue at the port of New York and the
number of such suits that are almost daily instituted are certainly worthy the attention of
the Congress. These legal controversies, based upon conflicting views by importers and the
collector as to the interpretation of our present complex and indefinite revenue laws, might
be largely obviated by an amendment of those laws.

But pending such amendment the present condition of this litigation should be relieved. There
are now pending about 2,500 of these suits. More than 1,100 have been commenced within the
past eighteen months, and many of the others have been at issue for more than twenty-five years.
These delays subject the Government to loss of evidence and prevent the preparation necessary
to defeat unjust and fictitious claims, while constantly accruing interest threatens to double
the demands involved.

In the present condition of the dockets of the courts, well filled with private suits, and
of the force allowed the district attorney, no greater than is necessary for the ordinary and
current business of his office, these revenue litigations can not be considered.

In default of the adoption by the Congress of a plan for the general reorganization of the
Federal courts, as has been heretofore recommended, I urge the propriety of passing a law permitting
the appointment of an additional Federal judge in the district where these Government suits
have accumulated, so that by continuous sessions of the courts devoted to the trial of these
cases they may be determined.

It is entirely plain that a great saving to the Government would be accomplished by such a
remedy, and the suitors who have honest claims would not be denied justice through delay.

The report of the Secretary of War gives a detailed account of the administration of his Department
and contains sundry recommendations for the improvement of the service, which I fully approve.

The Army consisted at the date of the last consolidated return of 2,103 officers and 24,946
enlisted men.

The expenses of the Department for the last fiscal year were $36,990,903.38, including $6,294,305.43
for public works and river and harbor improvements.

I especially direct the attention of the Congress to the recommendation that officers be required
to submit to an examination as a preliminary to their promotion. I see no objection, but many
advantages, in adopting this feature, which has operated so beneficially in our Navy Department,
as well as in some branches of the Army.

The subject of coast defenses and fortifications has been fully and carefully treated by the
Board on Fortifications, whose report was submitted at the last session of Congress; but no
construction work of the kind recommended by the board has been possible during the last year
from the lack of appropriations for such purpose.

The defenseless condition of our seacoast and lake frontier is perfectly palpable. The examinations
made must convince us all that certain of our cities named in the report of the board should
be fortified and that work on the most important of these fortifications should be commenced
at once. The work has been thoroughly considered and laid out, the Secretary of War reports,
but all is delayed in default of Congressional action.

The absolute necessity, judged by all standards of prudence and foresight, of our preparation
for an effectual resistance against the armored ships and steel guns and mortars of modern
construction which may threaten the cities on our coasts is so apparent that I hope effective
steps will be taken in that direction immediately.

The valuable and suggestive treatment of this question by the Secretary of War is earnestly
commended to the consideration of the Congress.

In September and October last the hostile Apaches who, under the leadership of Geronimo, had
for eighteen months been on the war path, and during that time had committed many murders and
been the cause of constant terror to the settlers of Arizona, surrendered to General Miles,
the military commander who succeeded General Crook in the management and direction of their
pursuit.

Under the terms of their surrender as then reported, and in view of the understanding which
these murderous savages seemed to entertain of the assurances given them, it was considered
best to imprison them in such manner as to prevent their ever engaging in such outrages again,
instead of trying them for murder. Fort Pickens having been selected as a safe place of confinement,
all the adult males were sent thither and will be closely guarded as prisoners. In the meantime
the residue of the band, who, though still remaining upon the reservation, were regarded as
unsafe and suspected of furnishing aid to those on the war path, had been removed to Fort Marion.
The women and larger children of the hostiles were also taken there, and arrangements have
been made for putting the children of proper age in Indian schools.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy contains a detailed exhibit of the condition of his
Department, with such a statement of the action needed to improve the same as should challenge
the earnest attention of the Congress.

The present Navy of the United States, aside from the ships in course of construction, consists
of--

First. Fourteen single-turreted monitors, none of which are in commission nor at the present
time serviceable. The batteries of these ships are obsolete, and they can only be relied upon
as auxiliary ships in harbor defense, and then after such an expenditure upon them as might
not be deemed justifiable.

Second. Five fourth-rate vessels of small tonnage, only one of which was designed as a war
vessel, and all of which are auxiliary merely.

Third. Twenty-seven cruising ships, three of which are built of iron, of small tonnage, and
twenty-four of wood. Of these wooden vessels it is estimated by the Chief Constructor of the
Navy that only three will be serviceable beyond a period of six years, at which time it may
be said that of the present naval force nothing worthy the name will remain.

All the vessels heretofore authorized are under contract or in course of construction except
the armored ships, the torpedo and dynamite boats, and one cruiser. As to the last of these,
the bids were in excess of the limit fixed by Congress. The production in the United States
of armor and gun steel is a question which it seems necessary to settle at an early day if
the armored war vessels are to be completed with those materials of home manufacture. This
has been the subject of investigation by two boards and by two special committees of Congress
within the last three years. The report of the Gun Foundry Board in 1884, of the Board on Fortifications
made in January last, and the reports of the select committees of the two Houses made at the
last session of Congress have entirely exhausted the subject, so far as preliminary investigation
is involved, and in their recommendations they are substantially agreed.

In the event that the present invitation of the Department for bids to furnish such of this
material as is now authorized shall fail to induce domestic manufacturers to undertake the
large expenditures required to prepare for this new manufacture, and no other steps are taken
by Congress at its coming session, the Secretary contemplates with dissatisfaction the necessity
of obtaining abroad the armor and the gun steel for the authorized ships. It would seem desirable
that the wants of the Army and the Navy in this regard should be reasonably met, and that by
uniting their contracts such inducement might be offered as would result in securing the domestication
of these important interests.

The affairs of the postal service show marked and gratifying improvement during the past year.
A particular account of its transactions and condition is given in the report of the Postmaster-General,
which will be laid before you.

The reduction of the rate of letter postage in 1883, rendering the postal revenues inadequate
to sustain the expenditures, and business depression also contributing, resulted in an excess
of cost for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1885, of eight and one-third millions of dollars.
An additional check upon receipts by doubling the measure of weight in rating sealed correspondence
and diminishing one-half the charge for newspaper carriage was imposed by legislation which
took effect with the beginning of the past fiscal year, while the constant demand of our territorial
development and growing population for the extension and increase of mail facilities and machinery
necessitates steady annual advance in outlay, and the careful estimate of a year ago upon the
rates of expenditure then existing contemplated the unavoidable augmentation of the deficiency
in the last fiscal year by nearly $2,000,000. The anticipated revenue for the last year failed
of realization by about $64,000, but proper measures of economy have so satisfactorily limited
the growth of expenditure that the total deficiency in fact fell below that of 1885, and at
this time the increase of revenue is in a gaining ratio over the increase of cost, demonstrating
the sufficiency of the present rates of postage ultimately to sustain the service. This is
the more pleasing because our people enjoy now both cheaper postage proportionably to distances
and a vaster and more costly service than any other upon the globe.

Retrenchment has been effected in the cost of supplies, some expenditures unwarranted by law
have ceased, and the outlays for mail carriage have been subjected to beneficial scrutiny.
At the close of the last fiscal year the expense of transportation on star routes stood at
an annual rate of cost less by over $560,000 than at the close of the previous year and steamboat
and mail-messenger service at nearly $200,000 less.

The service has been in the meantime enlarged and extended by the establishment of new offices,
increase of routes of carriage, expansion of carrier-delivery conveniences, and additions to
the railway mail facilities, in accordance with the growing exigencies of the country and the
long-established policy of the Government.

The Postmaster-General calls attention to the existing law for compensating railroads and expresses
the opinion that a method may be devised which will prove more just to the carriers and beneficial
to the Government; and the subject appears worthy of your early consideration.

The differences which arose during the year with certain of the ocean steamship companies have
terminated by the acquiescence of all in the policy of the Government approved by the Congress
in the postal appropriation at its last session, and the Department now enjoys the utmost service
afforded by all vessels which sail from our ports upon either ocean--a service generally adequate
to the needs of our intercourse. Petitions have, however, been presented to the Department
by numerous merchants and manufacturers for the establishment of a direct service to the Argentine
Republic and for semimonthly dispatches to the Empire of Brazil, and the subject is commended
to your consideration. It is an obvious duty to provide the means of postal communication which
our commerce requires, and with prudent forecast of results the wise extension of it may lead
to stimulating intercourse and become the harbinger of a profitable traffic which will open
new avenues for the disposition of the products of our industry. The circumstances of the countries
at the far south of our continent are such as to invite our enterprise and afford the promise
of sufficient advantages to justify an unusual effort to bring about the closer relations which
greater freedom of communication would tend to establish.

I suggest that, as distinguished from a grant or subsidy for the mere benefit of any line of
trade or travel, whatever outlay may be required to secure additional postal service, necessary
and proper and not otherwise attainable, should be regarded as within the limit of legitimate
compensation for such service.

The extension of the free-delivery service as suggested by the Postmaster-General has heretofore
received my sanction, and it is to be hoped a suitable enactment may soon be agreed upon.

The request for an appropriation sufficient to enable the general inspection of fourth-class
offices has my approbation.

I renew my approval of the recommendation of the Postmaster-General that another assistant
be provided for the Post-Office Department, and I invite your attention to the several other
recommendations in his report.

The conduct of the Department of Justice for the last fiscal year is fully detailed in the
report of the Attorney-General, and I invite the earnest attention of the Congress to the same
and due consideration of the recommendations therein contained.

In the report submitted by this officer to the last session of the Congress he strongly recommended
the erection of a penitentiary for the confinement of prisoners convicted and sentenced in
the United States courts, and he repeats the recommendation in his report for the last year.

This is a matter of very great importance and should at once receive Congressional action.
United States prisoners are now confined in more than thirty different State prisons and penitentiaries
scattered in every part of the country. They are subjected to nearly as many different modes
of treatment and discipline and are far too much removed from the control and regulation of
the Government. So far as they are entitled to humane treatment and an opportunity for improvement
and reformation, the Government is responsible to them and society that these things are forthcoming.
But this duty can scarcely be discharged without more absolute control and direction than is
possible under the present system.

Many of our good citizens have interested themselves, with the most beneficial results, in
the question of prison reform. The General Government should be in a situation, since there
must be United States prisoners, to furnish important aid in this movement, and should be able
to illustrate what may be practically done in the direction of this reform and to present an
example in the treatment and improvement of its prisoners worthy of imitation.

With prisons under its own control the Government could deal with the somewhat vexed question
of convict labor, so far as its convicts were concerned, according to a plan of its own adoption,
and with due regard to the rights and interests of our laboring citizens, instead of sometimes
aiding in the operation of a system which causes among them irritation and discontent.

Upon consideration of this subject it might be thought wise to erect more than one of these
institutions, located in such places as would best subserve the purposes of convenience and
economy in transportation. The considerable cost of maintaining these convicts as at present,
in State institutions, would be saved by the adoption of the plan proposed, and by employing
them in the manufacture of such articles as were needed for use by the Government quite a large
pecuniary benefit would be realized in partial return for our outlay.

I again urge a change in the Federal judicial system to meet the wants of the people and obviate
the delays necessarily attending the present condition of affairs in our courts. All are agreed
that something should be done, and much favor is shown by those well able to advise to the
plan suggested by the Attorney-General at the last session of the Congress and recommended
in my last annual message. This recommendation is here renewed, together with another made
at the same time, touching a change in the manner of compensating district attorneys and marshals;
and the latter subject is commended to the Congress for its action in the interest of economy
to the Government, and humanity, fairness, and justice to our people.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior presents a comprehensive summary of the work of
the various branches of the public service connected with his Department, and the suggestions
and recommendations which it contains for the improvement of the service should receive your
careful consideration.

The exhibit made of the condition of our Indian population and the progress of the work for
their enlightenment, notwithstanding the many embarrassments which hinder the better administration
of this important branch of the service, is a gratifying and hopeful one.

The funds appropriated for the Indian service for the fiscal year just passed, with the available
income from Indian land and trust moneys, amounting in all to $7,850,775.12, were ample for
the service under the conditions and restrictions of laws regulating their expenditure. There
remained a balance on hand on June 30, 1886, of $1,660,023.30, of which $ 1,337,768.21 are
permanent funds for fulfillment of treaties and other like purposes, and the remainder, $322,255.09,
is subject to be carried to the surplus fund as required by law.

The estimates presented for appropriations for the ensuing fiscal year amount to $5,608,873.64,
or $442,386.20 less than those laid before the Congress last year.

The present system of agencies, while absolutely necessary and well adapted for the management
of our Indian affairs and for the ends in view when it was adopted, is in the present stage
of Indian management inadequate, standing alone, for the accomplishment of an object which
has become pressing in its importance--the more rapid transition from tribal organizations
to citizenship of such portions of the Indians as are capable of civilized life.

When the existing system was adopted, the Indian race was outside of the limits of organized
States and Territories and beyond the immediate reach and operation of civilization, and all
efforts were mainly directed to the maintenance of friendly relations and the preservation
of peace and quiet on the frontier. All this is now changed. There is no such thing as the
Indian frontier. Civilization, with the busy hum of industry and the influences of Christianity,
surrounds these people at every point. None of the tribes are outside of the bounds of organized
government and society, except that the Territorial system has not been extended over that
portion of the country known as the Indian Territory. As a race the Indians are no longer hostile,
but may be considered as submissive to the control of the Government. Few of them only are
troublesome. Except the fragments of several bands, all are now gathered upon reservations.

It is no longer possible for them to subsist by the chase and the spontaneous productions of
the earth.

With an abundance of land, if furnished with the means and implements for profitable husbandry,
their life of entire dependence upon Government rations from day to day is no longer defensible.
Their inclination, long fostered by a defective system of control, is to cling to the habits
and customs of their ancestors and struggle with persistence against the change of life which
their altered circumstances press upon them. But barbarism and civilization can not live together.
It is impossible that such incongruous conditions should coexist on the same soil.

They are a portion of our people, are under the authority of our Government, and have a peculiar
claim upon and are entitled to the fostering care and protection of the nation. The Government
can not relieve itself of this responsibility until they are so far trained and civilized as
to be able wholly to manage and care for themselves. The paths in which they should walk must
be clearly marked out for them, and they must be led or guided until they are familiar with
the way and competent to assume the duties and responsibilities of our citizenship.

Progress in this great work will continue only at the present slow pace and at great expense
unless the system and methods of management are improved to meet the changed conditions and
urgent demands of the service.

The agents, having general charge and supervision in many cases of more than 5,000 Indians,
scattered over large reservations, and burdened with the details of accountability for funds
and supplies, have time to look after the industrial training and improvement of a few Indians
only. The many are neglected and remain idle and dependent, conditions not favorable for progress
and civilization.

The compensation allowed these agents and the conditions of the service are not calculated
to secure for the work men who are fitted by ability and skill to properly plan and intelligently
direct the methods best adapted to produce the most speedy results and permanent benefits.

Hence the necessity for a supplemental agency or system directed to the end of promoting the
general and more rapid transition of the tribes from habits and customs of barbarism to the
ways of civilization.

With an anxious desire to devise some plan of operation by which to secure the welfare of the
Indians and to relieve the Treasury as far as possible from the support of an idle and dependent
population, I recommended in my previous annual message the passage of a law authorizing the
appointment of a commission as an instrumentality auxiliary to those already established for
the care of the Indians. It was designed that this commission should be composed of six intelligent
and capable persons--three to be detailed from the Army--having practical ideas upon the subject
of the treatment of Indians and interested in their welfare, and that it should be charged,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, with the management of such matters of
detail as can not with the present organization be properly and successfully conducted, and
which present different phases, as the Indians themselves differ in their progress, needs,
disposition, and capacity for improvement or immediate self-support.

By the aid of such a commission much unwise and useless expenditure of money, waste of materials,
and unavailing efforts might be avoided; and it is hoped that this or some measure which the
wisdom of Congress may better devise to supply the deficiency of the present system may receive
your consideration and the appropriate legislation be provided.

The time is ripe for the work of such an agency.

There is less opposition to the education and training of the Indian youth, as shown by the
increased attendance upon the schools, and there is a yielding tendency for the individual
holding of lands. Development and advancement in these directions are essential, and should
have every encouragement. As the rising generation are taught the language of civilization
and trained in habits of industry they should assume the duties, privileges, and responsibilities
of citizenship.

No obstacle should hinder the location and settlement of any Indian willing to take land in
severalty; on the contrary, the inclination to do so should be stimulated at all times when
proper and expedient. But there is no authority of law for making allotments on some of the
reservations, and on others the allotments provided for are so small that the Indians, though
ready and desiring to settle down, are not willing to accept such small areas when their reservations
contain ample lands to afford them homesteads of sufficient size to meet their present and
future needs.

These inequalities of existing special laws and treaties should be corrected and some general
legislation on the subject should be provided, so that the more progressive members of the
different tribes may be settled upon homesteads, and by their example lead others to follow,
breaking away from tribal customs and substituting therefor the love of home, the interest
of the family, and the rule of the state.

The Indian character and nature are such that they are not easily led while brooding over unadjusted
wrongs. This is especially so regarding their lands. Matters arising from the construction
and operation of railroads across some of the reservations, and claims of title and right of
occupancy set up by white persons to some of the best land within other reservations require
legislation for their final adjustment.

The settlement of these matters will remove many embarrassments to progress in the work of
leading the Indians to the adoption of our institutions and bringing them under the operation,
the influence, and the protection of the universal laws of our country.

The recommendations of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land
Office looking to the better protection of public lands and of the public surveys, the preservation
of national forests, the adjudication of grants to States and corporations and of private land
claims, and the increased efficiency of the public-land service are commended to the attention
of Congress. To secure the widest distribution of public lands in limited quantities among
settlers for residence and cultivation, and thus make the greatest number of individual homes,
was the primary object of the public-land legislation in the early days of the Republic. This
system was a simple one. It commenced with an admirable scheme of public surveys, by which
the humblest citizen could identify the tract upon which he wished to establish his home. The
price of lands was placed within the reach of all the enterprising, industrious, and honest
pioneer citizens of the country. It was soon, however, found that the object of the laws was
perverted, under the system of cash sales, from a distribution of land among the people to
an accumulation of land capital by wealthy and speculative persons. To check this tendency
a preference right of purchase was given to settlers on the land, a plan which culminated in
the general preemption act of 1841. The foundation of this system was actual residence and
cultivation. Twenty years later the homestead law was devised to more surely place actual homes
in the possession of actual cultivators of the soil. The land was given without price, the
sole conditions being residence, improvement, and cultivation. Other laws have followed, each
designed to encourage the acquirement and use of land in limited individual quantities. But
in later years these laws, through vicious administrative methods and under changed conditions
of communication and transportation, have been so evaded and violated that their beneficent
purpose is threatened with entire defeat. The methods of such evasions and violations are set
forth in detail in the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of the General
Land Office. The rapid appropriation of our public lands without bona fide settlements or cultivation,
and not only without intention of residence, but for the purpose of their aggregation in large
holdings, in many cases in the hands of foreigners, invites the serious and immediate attention
of the Congress.

The energies of the Land Department have been devoted during the present Administration to
remedy defects and correct abuses in the public-land service. The results of these efforts
are so largely in the nature of reforms in the processes and methods of our land system as
to prevent adequate estimate; but it appears by a compilation from the reports of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office that the immediate effect in leading cases which have come to a
final termination has been the restoration to the mass of public lands of 2,750,000 acres;
that 2,370,000 acres are embraced in investigations now pending before the Department or the
courts, and that the action of Congress has been asked to effect the restoration of 2,790,000
acres additional; besides which 4,000,000 acres have been withheld from reservation and the
rights of entry thereon maintained.

I recommend the repeal of the preemption and timber-culture acts, and that the homestead laws
be so amended as to better secure compliance with their requirements of residence, improvement,
and cultivation for the period of five years from date of entry, without commutation or provision
for speculative relinquishment. I also recommend the repeal of the desert-land laws unless
it shall be the pleasure of the Congress to so amend these laws as to render them less liable
to abuses. As the chief motive for an evasion of the laws and the principal cause of their
result in land accumulation instead of land distribution is the facility with which transfers
are made of the right intended to be secured to settlers, it may be deemed advisable to provide
by legislation some guards and checks upon the alienation of homestead rights and lands covered
thereby until patents issue.

Last year an Executive proclamation was issued directing the removal of fences which inclosed
the public domain. Many of these have been removed in obedience to such order, but much of
the public land still remains within the lines of these unlawful fences. The ingenious methods
resorted to in order to continue these trespasses and the hardihood of the pretenses by which
in some cases such inclosures are justified are fully detailed in the report of the Secretary
of the Interior.

The removal of the fences still remaining which inclose public lands will be enforced with
all the authority and means with which the executive branch of the Government is or shall be
invested by the Congress for that purpose.

The report of the Commissioner of Pensions contains a detailed and most satisfactory exhibit
of the operations of the Pension Bureau during the last fiscal year. The amount of work done
was the largest in any year since the organization of the Bureau, and it has been done at less
cost than during the previous year in every division.

On the 30th day of June, 1886, there were 365,783 pensioners on the rolls of the Bureau.

Since 1861 there have been 1,018,735 applications for pensions filed, of which 78,834 were
based upon service in the War of 1812. There were 621,754 of these applications allowed, including
60,178 to the soldiers of 1812 and their widows.

The total amount paid for pensions since 1861 is $808,624,811.57.

The number of new pensions allowed during the year ended June 30, 1886, is 40,857, a larger
number than has been allowed in any year save one since 1861. The names of 2,229 pensioners
which had been previously dropped from the rolls were restored during the year, and after deducting
those dropped within the same time for various causes a net increase remains for the year of
20,658 names.

From January 1, 1861, to December 1, 1885, 1,967 private pension acts had been passed. Since
the last-mentioned date, and during the last session of the Congress, 644 such acts became laws.

It seems to me that no one can examine our pension establishment and its operations without
being convinced that through its instrumentality justice can be very nearly done to all who
are entitled under present laws to the pension bounty of the Government.

But it is undeniable that cases exist, well entitled to relief, in which the Pension Bureau
is powerless to aid. The really worthy cases of this class are such as only lack by misfortune
the kind or quantity of proof which the law and regulations of the Bureau require, or which,
though their merit is apparent, for some other reason can not be justly dealt with through
general laws. These conditions fully justify application to the Congress and special enactments.
But resort to the Congress for a special pension act to overrule the deliberate and careful
determination of the Pension Bureau on the merits or to secure favorable action when it could
not be expected under the most liberal execution of general laws, it must be admitted opens
the door to the allowance of questionable claims and presents to the legislative and executive
branches of the Government applications concededly not within the law and plainly devoid of
merit, but so surrounded by sentiment and patriotic feeling that they are hard to resist. I
suppose it will not be denied that many claims for pension are made without merit and that
many have been allowed upon fraudulent representations. This has been declared from the Pension
Bureau, not only in this but in prior Administrations.

The usefulness and the justice of any system for the distribution of pensions depend upon the
equality and uniformity of its operation.

It will be seen from the report of the Commissioner that there are now paid by the Government
131 different rates of pension.

He estimates from the best information he can obtain that 9,000 of those who have served in
the Army and Navy of the United States are now supported, in whole or in part, from public
funds or by organized charities, exclusive of those in soldiers' homes under the direction
and control of the Government. Only 13 per cent of these are pensioners, while of the entire
number of men furnished for the late war something like 20 per cent, including their widows
and relatives, have been or now are in receipt of pensions.

The American people, with a patriotic and grateful regard for our ex-soldiers, too broad and
too sacred to be monopolized by any special advocates, are not only willing but anxious that
equal and exact justice should be done to all honest claimants for pensions. In their sight
the friendless and destitute soldier, dependent on public charity, if otherwise entitled, has
precisely the same right to share in the provision made for those who fought their country's
battles as those better able, through friends and influence, to push their claims. Every pension
that is granted under our present plan upon any other grounds than actual service and injury
or disease incurred in such service, and every instance of the many in which pensions are increased
on other grounds than the merits of the claim, work an injustice to the brave and crippled,
but poor and friendless, soldier, who is entirely neglected or who must be content with the
smallest sum allowed under general laws.

There are far too many neighborhoods in which are found glaring cases of inequality of treatment
in the matter of pensions, and they are largely due to a yielding in the Pension Bureau to
importunity on the part of those, other than the pensioner, who are especially interested,
or they arise from special acts passed for the benefit of individuals.

The men who fought side by side should stand side by side when they participate in a grateful
nation's kind remembrance.

Every consideration of fairness and justice to our ex-soldiers and the protection of the patriotic
instinct of our citizens from perversion and violation point to the adoption of a pension system
broad and comprehensive enough to cover every contingency, and which shall make unnecessary
an objectionable volume of special legislation.

As long as we adhere to the principle of granting pensions for service, and disability as the
result of the service, the allowance of pensions should be restricted to cases presenting these
features.

Every patriotic heart responds to a tender consideration for those who, having served their
country long and well, are reduced to destitution and dependence, not as an incident of their
service, but with advancing age or through sickness or misfortune. We are all tempted by the
contemplation of such a condition to supply relief, and are often impatient of the limitations
of public duty. Yielding to no one in the desire to indulge this feeling of consideration,
I can not rid myself of the conviction that if these ex-soldiers are to be relieved they and
their cause are entitled to the benefit of an enactment under which relief may be claimed as
a right, and that such relief should be granted under the sanction of law, not in evasion of
it; nor should such worthy objects of care, all equally entitled, be remitted to the unequal
operation of sympathy or the tender mercies of social and political influence, with their unjust
discriminations.

The discharged soldiers and sailors of the country are our fellow-citizens, and interested
with us in the passage and faithful execution of wholesome laws. They can not be swerved from
their duty of citizenship by artful appeals to their spirit of brotherhood born of common peril
and suffering, nor will they exact as a test of devotion to their welfare a willingness to
neglect public duty in their behalf.

On the 4th of March, 1885, the current business of the Patent Office was, on an average, five
and a half months in arrears, and in several divisions more than twelve months behind. At the
close of the last fiscal year such current work was but three months in arrears, and it is
asserted and believed that in the next few months the delay in obtaining an examination of
an application for a patent will be but nominal.

The number of applications for patents during the last fiscal year, including reissues, designs,
trade-marks, and labels, equals 40,678, which is considerably in excess of the number received
during any preceding year.

The receipts of the Patent Office during the year aggregate $1,205,167.80, enabling the office
to turn into the Treasury a surplus revenue, over and above all expenditures, of about $163,710.30.

The number of patents granted during the last fiscal year, including reissues, trade-marks,
designs, and labels, was 25,619, a number also quite largely in excess of that of any preceding
year.

The report of the Commissioner shows the office to be in a prosperous condition and constantly
increasing in its business. No increase of force is asked for.

The amount estimated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1886, was $890,760. The amount estimated
for the year ending June 30, 1887, was $853,960. The amount estimated for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1888, is $778,770.

The Secretary of the Interior suggests a change in the plan for the payment of the indebtedness
of the Pacific subsidized roads to the Government. His suggestion has the unanimous indorsement
of the persons selected by the Government to act as directors of these roads and protect the
interests of the United States in the board of direction. In considering the plan proposed
the sole matters which should be taken into account, in my opinion, are the situation of the
Government as a creditor and the surest way to secure the payment of the principal and interest
of its debt.

By a recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States it has been adjudged that the
laws of the several States are inoperative to regulate rates of transportation upon railroads
if such regulation interferes with the rate of carriage from one State into another. This important
field of control and regulation having been thus left entirely unoccupied, the expediency of
Federal action upon the subject is worthy of consideration.

The relations of labor to capital and of laboring men to their employers are of the utmost
concern to every patriotic citizen. When these are strained and distorted, unjustifiable claims
are apt to be insisted upon by both interests, and in the controversy which results the welfare
of all and the prosperity of the country are jeopardized. Any intervention of the General Government,
within the limits of its constitutional authority, to avert such a condition should be willingly
accorded.

In a special message transmitted to the Congress at its last session I suggested the enlargement
of our present Labor Bureau and adding to its present functions the power of arbitration in
cases where differences arise between employer and employed. When these differences reach such
a stage as to result in the interruption of commerce between the States, the application of
this remedy by the General Government might be regarded as entirely within its constitutional
powers. And I think we might reasonably hope that such arbitrators, if carefully selected and
if entitled to the confidence of the parties to be affected, would be voluntarily called to
the settlement of controversies of less extent and not necessarily within the domain of Federal
regulation.

I am of the opinion that this suggestion is worthy the attention of the Congress.

But after all has been done by the passage of laws, either Federal or State, to relieve a situation
full of solicitude, much more remains to be accomplished by the reinstatement and cultivation
of a true American sentiment which recognizes the equality of American citizenship. This, in
the light of our traditions and in loyalty to the spirit of our institutions, would teach that
a hearty cooperation on the part of all interests is the surest path to national greatness
and the happiness of all our people; that capital should, in recognition of the brotherhood
of our citizenship and in a spirit of American fairness, generously accord to labor its just
compensation and consideration, and that contented labor is capital's best protection and faithful
ally. It would teach, too, that the diverse situations of our people are inseparable from our
civilization; that every citizen should in his sphere be a contributor to the general good;
that capital does not necessarily tend to the oppression of labor, and that violent disturbances
and disorders alienate from their promoters true American sympathy and kindly feeling.

The Department of Agriculture, representing the oldest and largest of our national industries,
is subserving well the purposes of its organization. By the introduction of new subjects of
farming enterprise and by opening new sources of agricultural wealth and the dissemination
of early information concerning production and prices it has contributed largely to the country's
prosperity. Through this agency advanced thought and investigation touching the subjects it
has in charge should, among other things, be practically applied to the home production at
a low cost of articles of food which are now imported from abroad. Such an innovation will
necessarily, of course, in the beginning be within the domain of intelligent experiment, and
the subject in every stage should receive all possible encouragement from the Government.

The interests of millions of our citizens engaged in agriculture are involved in an enlargement
and improvement of the results of their labor, and a zealous regard for their welfare should
be a willing tribute to those whose productive returns are a main source of our progress and power.

The existence of pleuro-pneumonia among the cattle of various States has led to burdensome
and in some cases disastrous restrictions in an important branch of our commerce, threatening
to affect the quantity and quality of our food supply. This is a matter of such importance
and of such far-reaching consequences that I hope it will engage the serious attention of the
Congress, to the end that such a remedy may be applied as the limits of a constitutional delegation
of power to the General Government will permit.

I commend to the consideration of the Congress the report of the Commissioner and his suggestions
concerning the interest intrusted to his care.

The continued operation of the law relating to our civil service has added the most convincing
proofs of its necessity and usefulness. It is a fact worthy of note that every public officer
who has a just idea of his duty to the people testifies to the value of this reform. Its staunchest,
friends are found among those who understand it best, and its warmest supporters are those
who are restrained and protected by its requirements.

The meaning of such restraint and protection is not appreciated by those who want places under
the Government regardless of merit and efficiency, nor by those who insist that the selection
of such places should rest upon a proper credential showing active partisan work. They mean
to public officers, if not their lives, the only opportunity afforded them to attend to public
business, and they mean to the good people of the country the better performance of the work
of their Government.

It is exceedingly strange that the scope and nature of this reform are so little understood
and that so many things not included within its plan are called by its name. When cavil yields
more fully to examination, the system will have large additions to the number of its friends.

Our civil-service reform may be imperfect in some of its details; it may be misunderstood and
opposed; it may not always be faithfully applied; its designs may sometimes miscarry through
mistake or willful intent; it may sometimes tremble under the assaults of its enemies or languish
under the misguided zeal of impracticable friends; but if the people of this country ever submit
to the banishment of its underlying principle from the operation of their Government they will
abandon the surest guaranty of the safety and success of American institutions.

I invoke for this reform the cheerful and ungrudging support of the Congress. I renew my recommendation
made last year that the salaries of the Commissioners be made equal to other officers of the
Government having like duties and responsibilities, and I hope that such reasonable appropriations
may be made as will enable them to increase the usefulness of the cause they have in charge.

I desire to call the attention of the Congress to a plain duty which the Government owes to
the depositors in the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company.

This company was chartered by the Congress for the benefit of the most illiterate and humble
of our people, and with the intention of encouraging in them industry and thrift. Most of its
branches were presided over by officers holding the commissions and clothed in the uniform
of the United States. These and other circumstances reasonably, I think, led these simple people
to suppose that the invitation to deposit their hard-earned savings in this institution implied
an undertaking on the part of their Government that their money should be safely kept for them.

When this company failed, it was liable in the sum of $2,939,925.22 to 61,131 depositors. Dividends
amounting in the aggregate to 62 per cent have been declared, and the sum called for and paid
of such dividends seems to be $1,648,181.72. This sum deducted from the entire amount of deposits
leaves $1,291,744.50 still unpaid. Past experience has shown that quite a large part of this
sum will not be called for. There are assets still on hand amounting to the estimated sum of
$16,000.

I think the remaining 38 per cent of such of these deposits as have claimants should be paid
by the Government, upon principles of equity and fairness.

The report of the commissioner, soon to be laid before Congress, will give more satisfactory
details on this subject.

The control of the affairs of the District of Columbia having been placed in the hands of purely
executive officers, while the Congress still retains all legislative authority relating to
its government, it becomes my duty to make known the most pressing needs of the District and
recommend their consideration.

The laws of the District appear to be in an uncertain and unsatisfactory condition, and their
codification or revision is much needed.

During the past year one of the bridges leading from the District to the State of Virginia
became unfit for use, and travel upon it was forbidden. This leads me to suggest that the improvement
of all the bridges crossing the Potomac and its branches from the city of Washington is worthy
the attention of Congress.

The Commissioners of the District represent that the laws regulating the sale of liquor and
granting licenses therefor should be at once amended, and that legislation is needed to consolidate,
define, and enlarge the scope and powers of charitable and penal institutions within the District.

I suggest that the Commissioners be clothed with the power to make, within fixed limitations,
police regulations. I believe this power granted and carefully guarded would tend to subserve
the good order of the municipality.

It seems that trouble still exists growing out of the occupation of the streets and avenues
by certain railroads having their termini in the city. It is very important that such laws
should be enacted upon this subject as will secure to the railroads all the facilities they
require for the transaction of their business and at the same time protect citizens from injury
to their persons or property.

The Commissioners again complain that the accommodations afforded them for the necessary offices
for District business and for the safe-keeping of valuable books and papers are entirely insufficient.
I recommend that this condition of affairs be remedied by the Congress, and that suitable quarters
be furnished for the needs of the District government.

In conclusion I earnestly invoke such wise action on the part of the people's legislators as
will subserve the public good and demonstrate during the remaining days of the Congress as
at present organized its ability and inclination to so meet the people's needs that it shall
be gratefully remembered by an expectant constituency.

***

State of the Union Address Grover Cleveland December 6, 1887

To the Congress of the United States:

You are confronted at the threshold of your legislative duties with a condition of the national
finances which imperatively demands immediate and careful consideration.

The amount of money annually exacted, through the operation of present laws, from the industries
and necessities of the people largely exceeds the sum necessary to meet the expenses of the
Government.

When we consider that the theory of our institutions guarantees to every citizen the full enjoyment
of all the fruits of his industry and enterprise, with only such deduction as may be his share
toward the careful and economical maintenance of the Government which protects him, it is plain
that the exaction of more than this is indefensible extortion and a culpable betrayal of American
fairness and justice. This wrong inflicted upon those who bear the burden of national taxation,
like other wrongs, multiplies a brood of evil consequences. The public Treasury, which should
only exist as a conduit conveying the people's tribute to its legitimate objects of expenditure,
becomes a hoarding place for money needlessly withdrawn from trade and the people's use, thus
crippling our national energies, suspending our country's development, preventing investment
in productive enterprise, threatening financial disturbance, and inviting schemes of public
plunder.

This condition of our Treasury is not altogether new, and it has more than once of late been
submitted to the people's representatives in the Congress, who alone can apply a remedy. And
yet the situation still continues, with aggravated incidents, more than ever presaging financial
convulsion and widespread disaster.

It will not do to neglect this situation because its dangers are not now palpably imminent
and apparent. They exist none the less certainly, and await the unforeseen and unexpected occasion
when suddenly they will be precipitated upon us.

On the 30th day of June, 1885, the excess of revenues over public expenditures, after complying
with the annual requirement of the sinking-fund act, was $17,859,735.84; during the year ended
June 30, 1886, such excess amounted to $49,405,545.20, and during the year ended June 30, 1887,
it reached the sum of $55,567,849.54.

The annual contributions to the sinking fund during the three years above specified, amounting
in the aggregate to $138,058,320.94, and deducted from the surplus as stated, were made by
calling in for that purpose outstanding 3 per cent bonds of the Government. During the six
months prior to June 30, 1887, the surplus revenue had grown so large by repeated accumulations,
and it was feared the withdrawal of this great sum of money needed by the people would so affect
the business of the country, that the sum of $79,864,100 of such surplus was applied to the
payment of the principal and interest of the 3 per cent bonds still outstanding, and which
were then payable at the option of the Government. The precarious condition of financial affairs
among the people still needing relief, immediately after the 30th day of June, 1887, the remainder
of the 3 per cent bonds then outstanding, amounting with principal and interest to the sum
of $18,877,500, were called in and applied to the sinking-fund contribution for the current
fiscal year. Notwithstanding these operations of the Treasury Department, representations of
distress in business circles not only continued, but increased, and absolute peril seemed at
hand. In these circumstances the contribution to the sinking fund for the current fiscal year
was at once completed by the expenditure of $27,684,283.55 in the purchase of Government bonds
not yet due bearing 4 and 41/2 per cent interest, the premium paid thereon averaging about
24 per cent for the former and 8 per cent for the latter. In addition to this, the interest
accruing during the current year upon the outstanding bonded indebtedness of the Government
was to some extent anticipated, and banks selected as depositories of public money were permitted
to somewhat increase their deposits.

While the expedients thus employed to release to the people the money lying idle in the Treasury
served to avert immediate danger, our surplus revenues have continued to accumulate, the excess
for the present year amounting on the 1st day of December to $55,258,701.19, and estimated
to reach the sum of $113,000,000 on the 30th of June next, at which date it is expected that
this sum, added to prior accumulations, will swell the surplus in the Treasury to $140,000,000.

There seems to be no assurance that, with such a withdrawal from use of the people's circulating
medium, our business community may not in the near future be subjected to the same distress
which was quite lately produced from the same cause. And while the functions of our National
Treasury should be few and simple, and while its best condition would be reached, I believe,
by its entire disconnection with private business interests, yet when, by a perversion of its
purposes, it idly holds money uselessly subtracted from the channels of trade, there seems
to be reason for the claim that some legitimate means should be devised by the Government to
restore in an emergency, without waste or extravagance, such money to its place among the people.

If such an emergency arises, there now exists no clear and undoubted executive power of relief.
Heretofore the redemption of 3 per cent bonds, which were payable at the option of the Government,
has afforded a means for the disbursement of the excess of our revenues; but these bonds have
all been retired, and there are no bonds outstanding the payment of which we have a right to
insist upon. The contribution to the sinking fund which furnishes the occasion for expenditure
in the purchase of bonds has been already made for the current year, so that there is no outlet
in that direction.

In the present state of legislation the only pretense of any existing executive power to restore
at this time any part of our surplus revenues to the people by its expenditure consists in
the supposition that the Secretary of the Treasury may enter the market and purchase the bonds
of the Government not yet due, at a rate of premium to be agreed upon. The only provision of
law from which such a power could be derived is found in an appropriation bill passed a number
of years ago, and it is subject to the suspicion that it was intended as temporary and limited
in its application, instead of conferring a continuing discretion and authority. No condition
ought to exist which would justify the grant of power to a single official, upon his judgment
of its necessity, to withhold from or release to the business of the people, in an unusual
manner, money held in the Treasury, and thus affect at his will the financial situation of
the country; and if it is deemed wise to lodge in the Secretary of the Treasury the authority
in the present juncture to purchase bonds, it should be plainly vested, and provided, as far
as possible, with such checks and limitations as will define this official's right and discretion
and at the same time relieve him from undue responsibility.

In considering the question of purchasing bonds as a means of restoring to circulation the
surplus money accumulating in the Treasury, it should be borne in mind that premiums must of
course be paid upon such purchase, that there may be a large part of these bonds held as investments
which can not be purchased at any price, and that combinations among holders who are willing
to sell may unreasonably enhance the cost of such bonds to the Government.

It has been suggested that the present bonded debt might be refunded at a less rate of interest
and the difference between the old and new security paid in cash, thus finding use for the
surplus in the Treasury. The success of this plan, it is apparent, must depend upon the volition
of the holders of the present bonds; and it is not entirely certain that the inducement which
must be offered them would result in more financial benefit to the Government than the purchase
of bonds, while the latter proposition would reduce the principal of the debt by actual payment
instead of extending it.

The proposition to deposit the money held by the Government in banks throughout the country
for use by the people is, it seems to me, exceedingly objectionable in principle, as establishing
too close a relationship between the operations of the Government Treasury and the business
of the country and too extensive a commingling of their money, thus fostering an unnatural
reliance in private business upon public funds. If this scheme should be adopted, it should
only be done as a temporary expedient to meet an urgent necessity. Legislative and executive
effort should generally be in the opposite direction, and should have a tendency to divorce,
as much and as fast as can be safely done, the Treasury Department from private enterprise.

Of course it is not expected that unnecessary and extravagant appropriations will be made for
the purpose of avoiding the accumulation of an excess of revenue. Such expenditure, besides
the demoralization of all just conceptions of public duty which it entails, stimulates a habit
of reckless improvidence not in the least consistent with the mission of our people or the
high and beneficent purposes of our Government.

I have deemed it my duty to thus bring to the knowledge of my countrymen, as well as to the
attention of their representatives charged with the responsibility of legislative relief, the
gravity of our financial situation. The failure of the Congress heretofore to provide against
the dangers which it was quite evident the very nature of the difficulty must necessarily produce
caused a condition of financial distress and apprehension since your last adjournment which
taxed to the utmost all the authority and expedients within executive control; and these appear
now to be exhausted. If disaster results from the continued inaction of Congress, the responsibility
must rest where it belongs.

Though the situation thus far considered is fraught with danger which should be fully realized,
and though it presents features of wrong to the people as well as peril to the country, it
is but a result growing out of a perfectly palpable and apparent cause, constantly reproducing
the same alarming circumstances--a congested National Treasury and a depleted monetary condition
in the business of the country. It need hardly be stated that while the present situation demands
a remedy, we can only be saved from a like predicament in the future by the removal of its cause.

Our scheme of taxation, by means of which this needless surplus is taken from the people and
put into the public Treasury, consists of a tariff or duty levied upon importations from abroad
and internal-revenue taxes levied upon the consumption of tobacco and spirituous and malt liquors.
It must be conceded that none of the things subjected to internal-revenue taxation are, strictly
speaking, necessaries. There appears to be no just complaint of this taxation by the consumers
of these articles, and there seems to be nothing so well able to bear the burden without hardship
to any portion of the people.

But our present tariff laws, the vicious, inequitable, and illogical source of unnecessary
taxation, ought to be at once revised and amended. These laws, as their primary and plain effect,
raise the price to consumers of all articles imported and subject to duty by precisely the
sum paid for such duties. Thus the amount of the duty measures the tax paid by those who purchase
for use these imported articles. Many of these things, however, are raised or manufactured
in our own country, and the duties now levied upon foreign goods and products are called protection
to these home manufactures, because they render it possible for those of our people who are
manufacturers to make these taxed articles and sell them for a price equal to that demanded
for the imported goods that have paid customs duty. So it happens that while comparatively
a few use the imported articles, millions of our people, who never used and never saw any of
the foreign products, purchase and use things of the same kind made in this country, and pay
therefor nearly or quite the same enhanced price which the duty adds to the imported articles.
Those who buy imports pay the duty charged thereon into the public Treasury, but the great
majority of our citizens, who buy domestic articles of the same class, pay a sum at least approximately
equal to this duty to the home manufacturer. This reference to the operation of our tariff
laws is not made by way of instruction, but in order that we may be constantly reminded of
the manner in which they impose a burden upon those who consume domestic products as well as
those who consume imported articles, and thus create a tax upon all our people.

It is not proposed to entirely relieve the country of this taxation. It must be extensively
continued as the source of the Government's income; and in a readjustment of our tariff the
interests of American labor engaged in manufacture should be carefully considered, as well
as the preservation of our manufacturers. It may be called protection or by any other name,
but relief from the hardships and dangers of our present tariff laws should be devised with
especial precaution against imperiling the existence of our manufacturing interests. But this
existence should not mean a condition which, without regard to the public welfare or a national
exigency, must always insure the realization of immense profits instead of moderately profitable
returns. As the volume and diversity of our national activities increase, new recruits are
added to those who desire a continuation of the advantages which they conceive the present
system of tariff taxation directly affords them. So stubbornly have all efforts to reform the
present condition been resisted by those of our fellow-citizens thus engaged that they can
hardly complain of the suspicion, entertained to a certain extent, that there exists an organized
combination all along the line to maintain their advantage.

We are in the midst of centennial celebrations, and with becoming pride we rejoice in American
skill and ingenuity, in American energy and enterprise, and in the wonderful natural advantages
and resources developed by a century's national growth. Yet when an attempt is made to justify
a scheme which permits a tax to be laid upon every consumer in the land for the benefit of
our manufacturers, quite beyond a reasonable demand for governmental regard, it suits the purposes
of advocacy to call our manufactures infant industries still needing the highest and greatest
degree of favor and fostering care that can be wrung from Federal legislation.

It is also said that the increase in the price of domestic manufactures resulting from the
present tariff is necessary in order that higher wages may be paid to our workingmen employed
in manufactories than are paid for what is called the pauper labor of Europe. All will acknowledge
the force of an argument which involves the welfare and liberal compensation of our laboring
people. Our labor is honorable in the eyes of every American citizen; and as it lies at the
foundation of our development and progress, it is entitled, without affectation or hypocrisy,
to the utmost regard. The standard of our laborers' life should not be measured by that of
any other country less favored, and they are entitled to their full share of all our advantages.

By the last census it is made to appear that of the 17,392,099 of our population engaged in
all kinds of industries 7,670,493 are employed in agriculture, 4,074,238 in professional and
personal service (2,934,876 of whom are domestic servants and laborers), while 1,810,256 are
employed in trade and transportation and 3,837,112 are classed as employed in manufacturing
and mining.

For present purposes, however, the last number given should be considerably reduced. Without
attempting to enumerate all, it will be conceded that there should be deducted from those which
it includes 375,143 carpenters and joiners, 285,401 milliners, dressmakers, and seamstresses,
172,726 blacksmiths, 133,756 tailors and tailoresses, 102,473 masons, 76,241 butchers, 41,309
bakers, 22,083 plasterers, and 4,891 engaged in manufacturing agricultural implements, amounting
in the aggregate to 1,214,023, leaving 2,623,089 persons employed in such manufacturing industries
as are claimed to be benefited by a high tariff.

To these the appeal is made to save their employment and maintain their wages by resisting
a change. There should be no disposition to answer such suggestions by the allegation that
they are in a minority among those who labor, and therefore should forego an advantage in the
interest of low prices for the majority. Their compensation, as it may be affected by the operation
of tariff laws, should at all times be scrupulously kept in view; and yet with slight reflection
they will not overlook the fact that they are consumers with the rest; that they too have their
own wants and those of their families to supply from their earnings, and that the price of
the necessaries of life, as well as the amount of their wages, will regulate the measure of
their welfare and comfort.

But the reduction of taxation demanded should be so measured as not to necessitate or justify
either the loss of employment by the workingman or the lessening of his wages; and the profits
still remaining to the manufacturer after a necessary readjustment should furnish no excuse
for the sacrifice of the interests of his employees, either in their opportunity to work or
in the diminution of their compensation. Nor can the worker in manufactures fail to understand
that while a high tariff is claimed to be necessary to allow the payment of remunerative wages,
it certainly results in a very large increase in the price of nearly all sorts of manufactures,
which, in almost countless forms, he needs for the use of himself and his family. He receives
at the desk of his employer his wages, and perhaps before he reaches his home is obliged, in
a purchase for family use of an article which embraces his own labor, to return in the payment
of the increase in price which the tariff permits the hard-earned compensation of many days
of toil.

The farmer and the agriculturist, who manufacture nothing, but who pay the increased price
which the tariff imposes upon every agricultural implement, upon all he wears, and upon all
he uses and owns, except the increase of his flocks and herds and such things as his husbandry
produces from the soil, is invited to aid in maintaining the present situation; and he is told
that a high duty on imported wool is necessary for the benefit of those who have sheep to shear,
in order that the price of their wool may be increased. They, of course, are not reminded that
the farmer who has no sheep is by this scheme obliged, in his purchases of clothing and woolen
goods, to pay a tribute to his fellow-farmer as well as to the manufacturer and merchant, nor
is any mention made of the fact that the sheep owners themselves and their households must
wear clothing and use other articles manufactured from the wool they sell at tariff prices,
and thus as consumers must return their share of this increased price to the tradesman.

I think it may be fairly assumed that a large proportion of the sheep owned by the farmers
throughout the country are found in small flocks, numbering from twenty-five to fifty. The
duty on the grade of imported wool which these sheep yield is 10 cents each pound if of the
value of 30 cents or less and 12 cents if of the value of more than 30 cents. If the liberal
estimate of 6 pounds be allowed for each fleece, the duty thereon would be 60 or 72 cents;
and this may be taken as the utmost enhancement of its price to the farmer by reason of this
duty. Eighteen dollars would thus represent the increased price of the wool from twenty-five
sheep and $36 that from the wool of fifty sheep; and at present values this addition would
amount to about one-third of its price. If upon its sale the farmer receives this or a less
tariff profit, the wool leaves his hands charged with precisely that sum, which in all its
changes will adhere to it until it reaches the consumer. When manufactured into cloth and other
goods and material for use, its cost is not only increased to the extent of the farmer's tariff
profit, but a further sum has been added for the benefit of the manufacturer under the operation
of other tariff laws. In the meantime the day arrives when the farmer finds it necessary to
purchase woolen goods and material to clothe himself and family for the winter. When he faces
the tradesman for that purpose, he discovers that he is obliged not only to return in the way
of increased prices his tariff profit on the wool he sold, and which then perhaps lies before
him in manufactured form, but that he must add a considerable sum thereto to meet a further
increase in cost caused by a tariff duty on the manufacture. Thus in the end he is aroused
to the fact that he has paid upon a moderate purchase, as a result of the tariff scheme, which
when he sold his wool seemed so profitable, an increase in price more than sufficient to sweep
away all the tariff profit he received upon the wool he produced and sold.

When the number of farmers engaged in wool raising is compared with all the farmers in the
country and the small proportion they bear to our population is considered; when it is made
apparent that in the case of a large part of those who own sheep the benefit of the present
tariff on wool is illusory; and, above all, when it must be conceded that the increase of the
cost of living caused by such tariff becomes a burden upon those with moderate means and the
poor, the employed and unemployed, the sick and well, and the young and old, and that it constitutes
a tax which with relentless grasp is fastened upon the clothing of every man, woman, and child
in the land, reasons are suggested why the removal or reduction of this duty should be included
in a revision of our tariff laws.

In speaking of the increased cost to the consumer of our home manufactures resulting from a
duty laid upon imported articles of the same description, the fact is not ever looked that
competition among our domestic producers sometimes has the effect of keeping the price of their
products below the highest limit allowed by such duty. But it is notorious that this competition
is too often strangled by combinations quite prevalent at this time, and frequently called
trusts, which have for their object the regulation of the supply and price of commodities made
and sold by members of the combination. The people can hardly hope for any consideration in
the operation of these selfish schemes.

If, however, in the absence of such combination, a healthy and free competition reduces the
price of any particular dutiable article of home production below the limit which it might
otherwise reach under our tariff laws, and if with such reduced price its manufacture continues
to thrive, it is entirely evident that one thing has been discovered which should be carefully
scrutinized in an effort to reduce taxation.

The necessity of combination to maintain the price of any commodity to the tariff point furnishes
proof that someone is willing to accept lower prices for such commodity and that such prices
are remunerative; and lower prices produced by competition prove the same thing. Thus where
either of these conditions exists a case would seem to be presented for an easy reduction of
taxation.

The considerations which have been presented touching our tariff laws are intended only to
enforce an earnest recommendation that the surplus revenues of the Government be prevented
by the reduction of our customs duties, and at the same time to emphasize a suggestion that
in accomplishing this purpose we may discharge a double duty to our people by granting to them
a measure of relief from tariff taxation in quarters where it is most needed and from sources
where it can be most fairly and justly accorded.

Nor can the presentation made of such considerations be with any degree of fairness regarded
as evidence of unfriendliness toward our manufacturing interests or of any lack of appreciation
of their value and importance.

These interests constitute a leading and most substantial element of our national greatness
and furnish the proud proof of our country's progress. But if in the emergency that presses
upon us our manufacturers are asked to surrender something for the public good and to avert
disaster, their patriotism, as well as a grateful recognition of advantages already afforded,
should lead them to willing cooperation. No demand is made that they shall forego all the benefits
of governmental regard; but they can not fail to be admonished of their duty, as well as their
enlightened self-interest and safety, when they are reminded of the fact that financial panic
and collapse, to which the present condition tends, afford no greater shelter or protection
to our manufactures than to other important enterprises. Opportunity for safe, careful, and
deliberate reform is now offered; and none of us should be unmindful of a time when an abused
and irritated people, heedless of those who have resisted timely and reasonable relief, may
insist upon a radical and sweeping rectification of their wrongs.

The difficulty attending a wise and fair revision of our tariff laws is not underestimated.
It will require on the part of the Congress great labor and care, and especially a broad and
national contemplation of the subject and a patriotic disregard of such local and selfish claims
as are unreasonable and reckless of the welfare of the entire country.

Under our present laws more than 4,000 articles are subject to duty. Many of these do not in
any way compete with our own manufactures, and many are hardly worth attention as subjects
of revenue. A considerable reduction can be made in the aggregate by adding them to the free
list. The taxation of luxuries presents no features of hardship; but the necessaries of life
used and consumed by all the people, the duty upon which adds to the cost of living in every
home, should be greatly cheapened.

The radical reduction of the duties imposed upon raw material used in manufactures, or its
free importation, is of course an important factor in any effort to reduce the price of these
necessaries. It would not only relieve them from the increased cost caused by the tariff on
such material, but the manufactured product being thus cheapened that part of the tariff now
laid upon such product, as a compensation to our manufacturers for the present price of raw
material, could be accordingly modified. Such reduction or free importation would serve besides
to largely reduce the revenue. It is not apparent how such a change can have any injurious
effect upon our manufacturers. On the contrary, it would appear to give them a better chance
in foreign markets with the manufacturers of other countries, who cheapen their wares by free
material. Thus our people might have the opportunity of extending their sales beyond the limits
of home consumption, saving them from the depression, interruption in business, and loss caused
by a glutted domestic market and affording their employees more certain and steady labor, with
its resulting quiet and contentment.

The question thus imperatively presented for solution should be approached in a spirit higher
than partisanship and considered in the light of that regard for patriotic duty which should
characterize the action of those intrusted with the weal of a confiding people. But the obligation
to declared party policy and principle is not wanting to urge prompt and effective action.
Both of the great political parties now represented in the Government have by repeated and
authoritative declarations condemned the condition of our laws which permit the collection
from the people of unnecessary revenue, and have in the most solemn manner promised its correction;
and neither as citizens nor partisans are our countrymen in a mood to condone the deliberate
violation of these pledges.

Our progress toward a wise conclusion will not be improved by dwelling upon the theories of
protection and free trade. This savors too much of bandying epithets. It is a condition which
confronts us, not a theory. Relief from this condition may involve a slight reduction of the
advantages which we award our home productions, but the entire withdrawal of such advantages
should not be contemplated. The question of free trade is absolutely irrelevant, and the persistent
claim made in certain quarters that all the efforts to relieve the people from unjust and unnecessary
taxation are schemes of so-called free traders is mischievous and far removed from any consideration
for the public good.

The simple and plain duty which we owe the people is to reduce taxation to the necessary expenses
of an economical operation of the Government and to restore to the business of the country
the money which we hold in the Treasury through the perversion of governmental powers. These
things can and should be done with safety to all our industries, without danger to the opportunity
for remunerative labor which our workingmen need, and with benefit to them and all our people
by cheapening their means of subsistence and increasing the measure of their comforts. It has
been the custom of the Executive, in compliance with this provision, to annually exhibit to
the Congress, at the opening of its session, the general condition of the country, and to detail
with some particularity the operations of the different Executive Departments. It would be
especially agreeable to follow this course at the present time and to call attention to the
valuable accomplishments of these Departments during the last fiscal year; but I am so much
impressed with the paramount importance of the subject to which this communication has thus
far been devoted that I shall forego the addition of any other topic, and only urge upon your
immediate consideration the "state of the Union" as shown in the present condition of our Treasury
and our general fiscal situation, upon which every element of our safety and prosperity depends.

The reports of the heads of Departments, which will be submitted, contain full and explicit
information touching the transaction of the business intrusted to them and such recommendations
relating to legislation in the public interest as they deem advisable. I ask for these reports
and recommendations the deliberate examination and action of the legislative branch of the
Government.

There are other subjects not embraced in the departmental reports demanding legislative consideration,
and which I should be glad to submit. Some of them, however, have been earnestly presented
in previous messages, and as to them I beg leave to repeat prior recommendations.

As the law makes no provision for any report from the Department of State, a brief history
of the transactions of that important Department, together with other matters which it may
hereafter be deemed essential to commend to the attention of the Congress, may furnish the
occasion for a future communication.

***

State of the Union Address Grover Cleveland December 3, 1888

To the Congress of the United States:

As you assemble for the discharge of the duties you have assumed as the representatives of
a free and generous people, your meeting is marked by an interesting and impressive incident.
With the expiration of the present session of the Congress the first century of our constitutional
existence as a nation will be completed.

Our survival for one hundred years is not sufficient to assure us that we no longer have dangers
to fear in the maintenance, with all its promised blessings, of a government rounded upon the
freedom of the people. The time rather admonishes us to soberly inquire whether in the past
we have always closely kept in the course of safety, and whether we have before us a way plain
and clear which leads to happiness and perpetuity.

When the experiment of our Government was undertaken, the chart adopted for our guidance was
the Constitution. Departure from the lines there laid down is failure. It is only by a strict
adherence to the direction they indicate and by restraint within the limitations they fix that
we can furnish proof to the world of the fitness of the American people for self-government.

The equal and exact justice of which we boast as the underlying principle of our institutions
should not be confined to the relations of our citizens to each other. The Government itself
is under bond to the American people that in the exercise of its functions and powers it will
deal with the body of our citizens in a manner scrupulously honest and fair and absolutely
just. It has agreed that American citizenship shall be the only credential necessary to justify
the claim of equality before the law, and that no condition in life shall give rise to discrimination
in the treatment of the people by their Government.

The citizen of our Republic in its early days rigidly insisted upon full compliance with the
letter of this bond, and saw stretching out before him a clear field for individual endeavor.
His tribute to the support of his Government was measured by the cost of its economical maintenance,
and he was secure in the enjoyment of the remaining recompense of his steady and contented
toil. In those days the frugality of the people was stamped upon their Government, and was
enforced by the free, thoughtful, and intelligent suffrage of the citizen. Combinations, monopolies,
and aggregations of capital were either avoided or sternly regulated and restrained. The pomp
and glitter of governments less free offered no temptation and presented no delusion to the
plain people who, side by side, in friendly competition, wrought for the ennoblement and dignity
of man, for the solution of the problem of free government, and for the achievement of the
grand destiny awaiting the land which God had given them.

A century has passed. Our cities are the abiding places of wealth and luxury; our manufactories
yield fortunes never dreamed of by the fathers of the Republic; our business men are madly
striving in the race for riches, and immense aggregations of capital outrun the imagination
in the magnitude of their undertakings.

We view with pride and satisfaction this bright picture of our country's growth and prosperity,
while only a closer scrutiny develops a somber shading. Upon more careful inspection we find
the wealth and luxury of our cities mingled with poverty and wretchedness and unremunerative
toil. A crowded and constantly increasing urban population suggests the impoverishment of rural
sections and discontent with agricultural pursuits. The farmer's son, not satisfied with his
father's simple and laborious life, joins the eager chase for easily acquired wealth.

We discover that the fortunes realized by our manufacturers are no longer solely the reward
of sturdy industry and enlightened foresight, but that they result from the discriminating
favor of the Government and are largely built upon undue exactions from the masses of our people.
The gulf between employers and the employed is constantly widening, and classes are rapidly
forming, one comprising the very rich and powerful, while in another are found the toiling poor.

As we view the achievements of aggregated capital, we discover the existence of trusts, combinations,
and monopolies, while the citizen is struggling far in the rear or is trampled to death beneath
an iron heel. Corporations, which should be the carefully restrained creatures of the law and
the servants of the people, are fast becoming the people's masters.

Still congratulating ourselves upon the wealth and prosperity of our country and complacently
contemplating every incident of change inseparable from these conditions, it is our duty as
patriotic citizens to inquire at the present stage of our progress how the bond of the Government
made with the people has been kept and performed.

Instead of limiting the tribute drawn from our citizens to the necessities of its economical
administration, the Government persists in exacting from the substance of the people millions
which, unapplied and useless, lie dormant in its Treasury. This flagrant injustice and this
breach of faith and obligation add to extortion the danger attending the diversion of the currency
of the country from the legitimate channels of business.

Under the same laws by which these results are produced the Government permits many millions
more to be added to the cost of the living of our people and to be taken from our consumers,
which unreasonably swell the profits of a small but powerful minority.

The people must still be taxed for the support of the Government under the operation of tariff
laws. But to the extent that the mass of our citizens are inordinately burdened beyond any
useful public purpose and for the benefit of a favored few, the Government, under pretext of
an exercise of its taxing power, enters gratuitously into partnership with these favorites,
to their advantage and to the injury of a vast majority of our people.

This is not equality before the law.

The existing situation is injurious to the health of our entire body politic. It stifles in
those for whose benefit it is permitted all patriotic love of country, and substitutes in its
place selfish greed and grasping avarice. Devotion to American citizenship for its own sake
and for what it should accomplish as a motive to our nation's advancement and the happiness
of all our people is displaced by the assumption that the Government, instead of being the
embodiment of equality, is but an instrumentality through which especial and individual advantages
are to be gained.

The arrogance of this assumption is unconcealed. It appears in the sordid disregard of all
but personal interests, in the refusal to abate for the benefit of others one iota of selfish
advantage, and in combinations to perpetuate such advantages through efforts to control legislation
and improperly influence the suffrages of the people.

The grievances of those not included within the circle of these beneficiaries, when fully realized,
will surely arouse irritation and discontent. Our farmers, long suffering and patient, struggling
in the race of life with the hardest and most unremitting toil, will not fail to see, in spite
of misrepresentations and misleading fallacies, that they are obliged to accept such prices
for their products as are fixed in foreign markets where they compete with the farmers of the
world; that their lands are declining in value while their debts increase, and that without
compensating favor they are forced by the action of the Government to pay for the benefit of
others such enhanced prices for the things they need that the scanty returns of their labor
fail to furnish their support or leave no margin for accumulation.

Our workingmen, enfranchised from all delusions and no longer frightened by the cry that their
wages are endangered by a just revision of our tariff laws, will reasonably demand through
such revision steadier employment, cheaper means of living in their homes, freedom for themselves
and their children from the doom of perpetual servitude, and an open door to their advancement
beyond the limits of a laboring class. Others of our citizens, whose comforts and expenditures
are measured by moderate salaries and fixed incomes, will insist upon the fairness and justice
of cheapening the cost of necessaries for themselves and their families.

When to the selfishness of the beneficiaries of unjust discrimination under our laws there
shall be added the discontent of those who suffer from such discrimination, we will realize
the fact that the beneficent purposes of our Government, dependent upon the patriotism and
contentment of our people, are endangered.

Communism is a hateful thing and a menace to peace and organized government; but the communism
of combined wealth and capital, the outgrowth of overweening cupidity and selfishness, which
insidiously undermines the justice and integrity of free institutions, is not less dangerous
than the communism of oppressed poverty and toil, which, exasperated by injustice and discontent,
attacks with wild disorder the citadel of rule.

He mocks the people who proposes that the Government shall protect the rich and that they in
turn will care for the laboring poor. Any intermediary between the people and their Government
or the least delegation of the care and protection the Government owes to the humblest citizen
in the land makes the boast of free institutions a glittering delusion and the pretended boon
of American citizenship a shameless imposition.

A just and sensible revision of our tariff laws should be made for the relief of those of our
countrymen who suffer under present conditions. Such a revision should receive the support
of all who love that justice and equality due to American citizenship; of all who realize that
in this justice and equality our Government finds its strength and its power to protect the
citizen and his property; of all who believe that the contented competence and comfort of many
accord better with the spirit of our institutions than colossal fortunes unfairly gathered
in the hands of a few; of all who appreciate that the forbearance and fraternity among our
people, which recognize the value of every American interest, are the surest guaranty of our
national progress, and of all who desire to see the products of American skill and ingenuity
in every market of the world, with a resulting restoration of American commerce.

The necessity of the reduction of our revenues is so apparent as to be generally conceded,
but the means by which this end shall be accomplished and the sum of direct benefit which shall
result to our citizens present a controversy of the utmost importance. There should be no scheme
accepted as satisfactory by which the burdens of the people are only apparently removed. Extravagant
appropriations of public money, with all their demoralizing consequences, should not be tolerated,
either as a means of relieving the Treasury of its present surplus or as furnishing pretext
for resisting a proper reduction in tariff rates. Existing evils and injustice should be honestly
recognized, boldly met, and effectively remedied. There should be no cessation of the struggle
until a plan is perfected, fair and conservative toward existing industries, but which will
reduce the cost to consumers of the necessaries of life, while it provides for our manufacturers
the advantage of freer raw materials and permits no injury to the interests of American labor.

The cause for which the battle is waged is comprised within lines clearly and distinctly defined.
It should never be compromised. It is the people's cause.

It can not be denied that the selfish and private interests which are so persistently heard
when efforts are made to deal in a just and comprehensive manner with our tariff laws are related
to, if they are not responsible for, the sentiment largely prevailing among the people that
the General Government is the fountain of individual and private aid; that it may be expected
to relieve with paternal care the distress of citizens and communities, and that from the fullness
of its Treasury it should, upon the slightest possible pretext of promoting the general good,
apply public funds to the benefit of localities and individuals. Nor can it be denied that
there is a growing assumption that, as against the Government and in favor of private claims
and interests, the usual rules and limitations of business principles and just dealing should
be waived.

These ideas have been unhappily much encouraged by legislative acquiescence. Relief from contracts
made with the Government is too easily accorded in favor of the citizen; the failure to support
claims against the Government by proof is often supplied by no better consideration than the
wealth of the Government and the poverty of the claimant; gratuities in the form of pensions
are granted upon no other real ground than the needy condition of the applicant, or for reasons
less valid; and large sums are expended for public buildings and other improvements upon representations
scarcely claimed to be related to public needs and necessities.

The extent to which the consideration of such matters subordinate and postpone action upon
subjects of great public importance, but involving no special private or partisan interest,
should arrest attention and lead to reformation.

A few of the numerous illustrations of this condition may be stated.

The crowded condition of the calendar of the Supreme Court, and the delay to suitors and denial
of justice resulting therefrom, has been strongly urged upon the attention of the Congress,
with a plan for the relief of the situation approved by those well able to judge of its merits.
While this subject remains without effective consideration, many laws have been passed providing
for the holding of terms of inferior courts at places to suit the convenience of localities,
or to lay the foundation of an application for the erection of a new public building.

Repeated recommendations have been submitted for the amendment and change of the laws relating
to our public lands so that their spoliation and diversion to other uses than as homes for
honest settlers might be prevented. While a measure to meet this conceded necessity of reform
remains awaiting the action of the Congress, many claims to the public lands and applications
for their donation, in favor of States and individuals, have been allowed.

A plan in aid of Indian management, recommended by those well informed as containing valuable
features in furtherance of the solution of the Indian problem, has thus far failed of legislative
sanction, while grants of doubtful expediency to railroad corporations, permitting them to
pass through Indian reservations, have greatly multiplied.

The propriety and necessity of the erection of one or more prisons for the confinement of United
States convicts, and a post-office building in the national capital, are not disputed. But
these needs yet remain answered, while scores of public buildings have been erected where their
necessity for public purposes is not apparent.

A revision of our pension laws could easily be made which would rest upon just principles and
provide for every worthy applicant. But while our general pension laws remain confused and
imperfect, hundreds of private pension laws are annually passed, which are the sources of unjust
discrimination and popular demoralization.

Appropriation bills for the support of the Government are defaced by items and provisions to
meet private ends, and it is freely asserted by responsible and experienced parties that a
bill appropriating money for public internal improvement would fail to meet with favor unless
it contained items more for local and private advantage than for public benefit.

These statements can be much emphasized by an ascertainment of the proportion of Federal legislation
which either bears upon its face its private character or which upon examination develops such
a motive power.

And yet the people wait and expect from their chosen representatives such patriotic action
as will advance the welfare of the entire country; and this expectation can only be answered
by the performance of public duty with unselfish purpose. Our mission among the nations of
the earth and our success in accomplishing the work God has given the American people to do
require of those intrusted with the making and execution of our laws perfect devotion, above
all other things, to the public good.

This devotion will lead us to strongly resist all impatience of constitutional limitations
of Federal power and to persistently check the increasing tendency to extend the scope of Federal
legislation into the domain of State and local jurisdiction upon the plea of subserving the
public welfare. The preservation of the partitions between proper subjects of Federal and local
care and regulation is of such importance under the Constitution, which is the law of our very
existence, that no consideration of expediency or sentiment should tempt us to enter upon doubtful
ground. We have undertaken to discover and proclaim the richest blessings of a free government,
with the Constitution as our guide. Let us follow the way it points out; it will not mislead
us. And surely no one who has taken upon himself the solemn obligation to support and preserve
the Constitution can find justification or solace for disloyalty in the excuse that he wandered
and disobeyed in search of a better way to reach the public welfare than the Constitution offers.

What has been said is deemed not inappropriate at a time when, from a century's height, we
view the way already trod by the American people and attempt to discover their future path.

The seventh President of the United States--the soldier and statesman and at all times the
firm and brave friend of the people--in vindication of his course as the protector of popular
rights and the champion of true American citizenship, declared: The ambition which leads me
on is an anxious desire and a fixed determination to restore to the people unimpaired the sacred
trust they have confided to my charge; to, heal the wounds of the Constitution and to preserve
it from further violation; to persuade my countrymen, so far as I may, that it is not in a
splendid government supported by powerful monopolies and aristocratical establishments that
they will find happiness or their liberties protection, but in a plain system, void of pomp,
protecting all and granting favors to none, dispensing its blessings like the dews of heaven,
unseen and unfelt save in the freshness and beauty they contribute to produce. It is such a
government that the genius of our people requires--such an one only under which our States
may remain for ages to come united, prosperous, and free.

Since my last annual message our foreign relations have been strengthened and improved by performance
of international good offices and by new and renewed treaties of amity, commerce, and reciprocal
extradition of criminals.

Those international questions which still await settlement are all reasonably within the domain
of amicable negotiation, and there is no existing subject of dispute between the United States
and any foreign power that is not susceptible of satisfactory adjustment by frank diplomatic
treatment.

The questions between Great Britain and the United States relating to the rights of American
fishermen, under treaty and international comity, in the territorial waters of Canada and Newfoundland,
I regret to say, are not yet satisfactorily adjusted.

These matters were fully treated in my message to the Senate of February 20 1888, together
with which a convention, concluded under my authority with Her Majesty's Government on the
15th of February last, for the removal of all causes of misunderstanding, was submitted by
me for the approval of the Senate.

This treaty having been rejected by the Senate, I transmitted a message to the Congress on
the 23d of August last reviewing the transactions and submitting for consideration certain
recommendations for legislation concerning the important questions involved.

Afterwards, on the 12th of September, in response to a resolution of the Senate, I again communicated
fully all the information in my possession as to the action of the government of Canada affecting
the commercial relations between the Dominion and the United States, including the treatment
of American fishing vessels in the ports and waters of British North America.

These communications have all been published, and therefore opened to the knowledge of both
Houses of Congress, although two were addressed to the Senate alone.

Comment upon or repetition of their contents would be superfluous, and I am not aware that
anything has since occurred which should be added to the facts therein stated. Therefore I
merely repeat, as applicable to the present time, the statement which will be found in my message
to the Senate of September 12 last, that--Since March 3, 1887, no case has been reported to
the Department of State wherein complaint was made of unfriendly or unlawful treatment of American
fishing vessels on the part of the Canadian authorities in which reparation was not promptly
and satisfactorily obtained by the United States consul-general at Halifax. Having essayed
in the discharge of my duty to procure by negotiation the settlement of a long-standing cause
of dispute and to remove a constant menace to the good relations of the two countries, and
continuing to be of opinion that the treaty of February last, which failed to receive the approval
of the Senate, did supply "a satisfactory, practical, and final adjustment, upon a basis honorable
and just to both parties, of the difficult and vexed question to which it related," and having
subsequently and unavailingly recommended other legislation to Congress which I hoped would
suffice to meet the exigency created by the rejection of the treaty, I now again invoke the
earnest and immediate attention of the Congress to the condition of this important question
as it now stands before them and the country, and for the settlement of which I am deeply solicitous.

Near the close of the month of October last occurrences of a deeply regrettable nature were
brought to my knowledge, which made it my painful but imperative duty to obtain with as little
delay as possible a new personal channel of diplomatic intercourse in this country with the
Government of Great Britain.

The correspondence in relation to this incident will in due course be laid before you, and
will disclose the unpardonable conduct of the official referred to in his interference by advice
and counsel with the suffrages of American citizens in the very crisis of the Presidential
election then near at hand, and also in his subsequent public declarations to justify his action,
superadding impugnment of the Executive and Senate of the United States in connection with
important questions now pending in controversy between the two Governments.

The offense thus committed was most grave, involving disastrous possibilities to the good relations
of the United States and Great Britain, constituting a gross breach of diplomatic privilege
and an invasion of the purely domestic affairs and essential sovereignty of the Government
to which the envoy was accredited.

Having first fulfilled the just demands of international comity by affording full opportunity
for Her Majesty's Government to act in relief of the situation, I considered prolongation of
discussion to be unwarranted, and thereupon declined to further recognize the diplomatic character
of the person whose continuance in such function would destroy that mutual confidence which
is essential to the good understanding of the two Governments and was inconsistent with the
welfare and self-respect of the Government of the United States.

The usual interchange of communication has since continued through Her Majesty's legation in
this city.

My endeavors to establish by international cooperation measures for the prevention of the extermination
of fur seals in Bering Sea have not been relaxed, and I have hopes of being enabled shortly
to submit an effective and satisfactory conventional projet with the maritime powers for the
approval of the Senate.

The coastal boundary between our Alaskan possessions and British Columbia, I regret to say,
has not received the attention demanded by its importance, and which on several occasions heretofore
I have had the honor to recommend to the Congress.

The admitted impracticability, if not impossibility, of making an accurate and precise survey
and demarcation of the boundary line as it is recited in the treaty with Russia under which
Alaska was ceded to the United States renders it absolutely requisite for the prevention of
international jurisdictional complications that adequate appropriation for a reconnoissance
and survey to obtain proper knowledge of the locality and the geographical features of the
boundary should be authorized by Congress with as little delay as possible.

Knowledge to be only thus obtained is an essential prerequisite for negotiation for ascertaining
a common boundary, or as preliminary to any other mode of settlement.

It is much to be desired that some agreement should be reached with Her Majesty's Government
by which the damages to life and property on the Great Lakes may be alleviated by removing
or humanely regulating the obstacles to reciprocal assistance to wrecked or stranded vessels.

The act of June 19, 1878, which offers to Canadian vessels free access to our inland waters
in aid of wrecked or disabled vessels, has not yet become effective through concurrent action
by Canada.

The due protection of our citizens of French origin or descent from claim of military service
in the event of their returning to or visiting France has called forth correspondence which
was laid before you at the last session.

In the absence of conventional agreement as to naturalization, which is greatly to be desired,
this Government sees no occasion to recede from the sound position it has maintained not only
with regard to France, but as to all countries with which the United States have not concluded
special treaties.

Twice within the last year has the imperial household of Germany been visited by death; and
I have hastened to express the sorrow of this people, and their appreciation of the lofty character
of the late aged Emperor William, and their sympathy with the heroism under suffering of his
son the late Emperor Frederick.

I renew my recommendation of two years ago for the passage of a bill for the refunding to certain
German steamship lines of the interest upon tonnage dues illegally exacted.

On the 12th [2d] of April last I laid before the House of Representatives full information
respecting our interests in Samoa; and in the subsequent correspondence on the same subject,
which will be laid before you in due course, the history of events in those islands will be found.

In a message accompanying my approval, on the 1st day of October last, of a bill for the exclusion
of Chinese laborers, I laid before Congress full information and all correspondence touching
the negotiation of the treaty with China concluded at this capital on the 12th day of March,
1888, and which, having been confirmed by the Senate with certain amendments, was rejected
by the Chinese Government. This message contained a recommendation that a sum of money be appropriated
as compensation to Chinese subjects who had suffered injuries at the hands of lawless men within
our jurisdiction. Such appropriation having been duly made, the fund awaits reception by the
Chinese Government.

It is sincerely hoped that by the cessation of the influx of this class of Chinese subjects,
in accordance with the expressed wish of both Governments, a cause of unkind feeling has been
permanently removed.

On the 9th of August, 1887, notification was given by the Japanese minister at this capital
of the adjournment of the conference for the revision of the treaties of Japan with foreign
powers, owing to the objection of his Government to the provision in the draft jurisdictional
convention which required the submission of the criminal code of the Empire to the powers in
advance of its becoming operative. This notification was, however, accompanied with an assurance
of Japan's intention to continue the work of revision.

Notwithstanding this temporary interruption of negotiations, it is hoped that improvements
may soon be secured in the jurisdictional system as respects foreigners in Japan, and relief
afforded to that country from the present undue and oppressive foreign control in matters of
commerce.

I earnestly recommend that relief be provided for the injuries accidentally caused to Japanese
subjects in the island Ikisima by the target practice of one of our vessels.

A diplomatic mission from Korea has been received, and the formal intercourse between the two
countries contemplated by the treaty of 1882 is now established.

Legislative provision is hereby recommended to organize and equip consular courts in Korea.

Persia has established diplomatic representation at this capital, and has evinced very great
interest in the enterprise and achievements of our citizens. I am therefore hopeful that beneficial
commercial relations between the two countries may be brought about.

I announce with sincere regret that Hayti has again become the theater of insurrection, disorder,
and bloodshed. The titular government of president Saloman has been forcibly overthrown and
he driven out of the country to France, where he has since died.

The tenure of power has been so unstable amid the war of factions that has ensued since the
expulsion of President Saloman that no government constituted by the will of the Haytian people
has been recognized as administering responsibly the affairs of that country. Our representative
has been instructed to abstain from interference between the warring factions, and a vessel
of our Navy has been sent to Haytian waters to sustain our minister and for the protection
of the persons and property of American citizens.

Due precautions have been taken to enforce our neutrality laws and prevent our territory from
becoming the base of military supplies for either of the warring factions.

Under color of a blockade, of which no reasonable notice had been given, and which does not
appear to have been efficiently maintained, a seizure of vessels under the American flag has
been reported, and in consequence measures to prevent and redress any molestation of our innocent
merchantmen have been adopted.

Proclamation was duly made on the 9th day of November, 1887, of the conventional extensions
of the treaty of June 3, 1875, with Hawaii, under which relations of such special and beneficent
intercourse have been created.

In the vast field of Oriental commerce now unfolded from our Pacific borders no feature presents
stronger recommendations for Congressional action than the establishment of communication by
submarine telegraph with Honolulu.

The geographical position of the Hawaiian group in relation to our Pacific States creates a
natural interdependency and mutuality of interest which our present treaties were intended
to foster, and which make close communication a logical and commercial necessity.

The wisdom of concluding a treaty of commercial reciprocity with Mexico has been heretofore
stated in my messages to Congress, and the lapse of time and growth of commerce with that close
neighbor and sister Republic confirm the judgment so expressed.

The precise relocation of our boundary line is needful, and adequate appropriation is now recommended.

It is with sincere satisfaction that I am enabled to advert to the spirit of good neighborhood
and friendly cooperation and conciliation that has marked the correspondence and action of
the Mexican authorities in their share of the task of maintaining law and order about the line
of our common boundary.

The long-pending boundary dispute between Costa Rica and Nicaragua was referred to my arbitration,
and by an award made on the 22d of March last the question has been finally settled to the
expressed satisfaction of both of the parties in interest.

The Empire of Brazil, in abolishing the last vestige of slavery among Christian nations, called
forth the earnest congratulations of this Government in expression of the cordial sympathies
of our people.

The claims of nearly all other countries against Chile growing out of her late war with Bolivia
and Peru have been disposed of, either by arbitration or by a lump settlement. Similar claims
of our citizens will continue to be urged upon the Chilean Government, and it is hoped will
not be subject to further delays.

A comprehensive treaty of amity and commerce with Peru was proclaimed on November 7 last, and
it is expected that under its operation mutual prosperity and good understanding will be promoted.

In pursuance of the policy of arbitration, a treaty to settle the claim of Santos, an American
citizen, against Ecuador has been concluded under my authority, and will be duly submitted
for the approval of the Senate.

Like disposition of the claim of Carlos Butterfield against Denmark and of Van Bokkelen against
Hayti will probably be made, and I trust the principle of such settlements may be extended
in practice under the approval of the Senate.

Through unforeseen causes, foreign to the will of both Governments, the ratification of the
convention of December 5, 1885, with Venezuela, for the rehearing of claims of citizens of
the United States under the treaty of 1866, failed of exchange within the term provided, and
a supplementary convention, further extending the time for exchange of ratifications and explanatory
of an ambiguous provision of the prior convention, now awaits the advice and consent of the Senate.

Although this matter, in the stage referred to, concerns only the concurrent treaty-making
power of one branch of Congress, I advert to it in view of the interest repeatedly and conspicuously
shown by you in your legislative capacity in favor of a speedy and equitable adjustment of
the questions growing out of the discredited judgments of the previous mixed commission of
Caracas. With every desire to do justice to the representations of Venezuela in this regard,
the time seems to have come to end this matter, and I trust the prompt confirmation by both
parties of the supplementary action referred to will avert the need of legislative or other
action to prevent the longer withholding of such rights of actual claimants as may be shown
to exist.

As authorized by the Congress, preliminary steps have been taken for the assemblage at this
capital during the coming year of the representatives of South and Central American States,
together with those of Mexico, Hayti, and San Domingo, to discuss sundry important monetary
and commercial topics.

Excepting in those cases where, from reasons of contiguity of territory and the existence of
a common border line incapable of being guarded, reciprocal commercial treaties may be found
expedient, it is believed that commercial policies inducing freer mutual exchange of products
can be most advantageously arranged by independent but cooperative legislation.

In the mode last mentioned the control of our taxation for revenue will be always retained
in our own hands unrestricted by conventional agreements with other governments.

In conformity also with Congressional authority, the maritime powers have been invited to confer
in Washington in April next upon the practicability of devising uniform rules and measures
for the greater security of life and property at sea. A disposition to accept on the part of
a number of the powers has already been manifested, and if the cooperation of the nations chiefly
interested shall be secured important results may be confidently anticipated.

The act of June 26, 1884, and the acts amendatory thereof, in relation to tonnage duties, have
given rise to extended correspondence with foreign nations with whom we have existing treaties
of navigation and commerce, and have caused wide and regrettable divergence of opinion in relation
to the imposition of the duties referred to. These questions are important, and I shall make
them the subject of a special and more detailed communication at the present session.

With the rapid increase of immigration to our shores and the facilities of modern travel, abuses
of the generous privileges afforded by our naturalization laws call for their careful revision.

The easy and unguarded manner in which certificates of American citizenship can now be obtained
has induced a class, unfortunately large, to avail themselves of the opportunity to become
absolved from allegiance to their native land, and yet by a foreign residence to escape any
just duty and contribution of service to the country of their proposed adoption. Thus, while
evading the duties of citizenship to the United States, they may make prompt claim for its
national protection and demand its intervention in their behalf. International complications
of a serious nature arise, and the correspondence of the State Department discloses the great
number and complexity of the questions which have been raised.

Our laws regulating the issue of passports should be carefully revised, and the institution
of a central bureau of registration at the capital is again strongly recommended. By this means
full particulars of each case of naturalization in the United States would be secured and properly
indexed and recorded, and thus many cases of spurious citizenship would be detected and unjust
responsibilities would be avoided.

The reorganization of the consular service is a matter of serious importance to our national
interests. The number of existing principal consular offices is believed to be greater than
is at all necessary for the conduct of the public business. It need not be our policy to maintain
more than a moderate number of principal offices, each supported by a salary sufficient to
enable the incumbent to live in comfort, and so distributed as to secure the convenient supervision,
through subordinate agencies, of affairs over a considerable district.

I repeat the recommendations heretofore made by me that the appropriations for the maintenance
of our diplomatic and consular service should be recast; that the so-called notarial or unofficial
fees, which our representatives abroad are now permitted to treat as personal perquisites,
should be forbidden; that a system of consular inspection should be instituted, and that a
limited number of secretaries of legation at large should be authorized.

Preparations for the centennial celebration, on April 30, 1889, of the inauguration of George
Washington as President of the United States, at the city of New York, have been made by a
voluntary organization of the citizens of that locality, and believing that an opportunity
should be afforded for the expression of the interest felt throughout the country in this event,
I respectfully recommend fitting and cooperative action by Congress on behalf of the people
of the United States.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury exhibits in detail the condition of our national
finances and the operations of the several branches of the Government related to his Department.

The total ordinary revenues of the Government for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1888, amounted
to $379,266,074.76, of which $219,091,173.63 was received from customs duties and $124,296,871.98
from internal revenue taxes.

The total receipts from all sources exceeded those for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1887,
by $7,862,797.10.

The ordinary expenditures of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1888, were
$259,653,958.67, leaving a surplus of $119,612,116.09.

The decrease in these expenditures as compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 1887, was
$8,278,221.30, notwithstanding the payment of more than $5,000,000 for pensions in excess of
what was paid for that purpose in the latter-mentioned year.

The revenues of the Government for the year ending June 30, 1889, ascertained for the quarter
ended September 30, 1888, and estimated for the remainder of the time, amount to $377,000,000,
and the actual and estimated ordinary expenditures for the same year are $273,000,000, leaving
an estimated surplus of $104,000,000.

The estimated receipts for the year ending June 30, 1890, are $377,000,000, and the estimated
ordinary expenditures for the same time are $275,767,488.34, showing a surplus of $101,232,511.66.

The foregoing statements of surplus do not take into account the sum necessary to be expended
to meet the requirements of the sinking-fund act, amounting to more than $47,000,000 annually.

The cost of collecting the customs revenues for the last fiscal year was 2.44 per cent; for
the year 1885 it was 3.77 per cent.

The excess of internal-revenue taxes collected during the last fiscal year over those collected
for the year ended June 30, 1887, was $5,489,174.26, and the cost of collecting this revenue
decreased from 3.4 per cent in 1887 to less than 3.2 per cent for the last year. The tax collected
on oleomargarine was $723,948.04 for the year ending June 30, 1887, and $864,139.88 for the
following year.

The requirements of the sinking-fund act have been met for the year ended June 30, 1888, and
for the current year also, by the purchase of bonds. After complying with this law as positively
required, and bonds sufficient for that purpose had been bought at a premium, it was not deemed
prudent to further expend the surplus in such purchases until the authority to do so should
be more explicit. A resolution, however, having been passed by both Houses of Congress removing
all doubt as to Executive authority, daily purchases of bonds were commenced on the 23d day
of April, 1888, and have continued until the present time. By this plan bonds of the Government
not yet due have been purchased up to and including the 30th day of November, 1888, amounting
to $94,700,400, the premium paid thereon amounting to $17,508,613.08.

The premium added to the principal of these bonds represents an investment yielding about 2
per cent interest for the time they still had to run, and the saving to the Government represented
by the difference between the amount of interest at 2 per cent upon the sum paid for principal
and premium and what it would have paid for interest at the rate specified in the bonds if
they had run to their maturity is about $27,165,000.

At first sight this would seem to be a profitable and sensible transaction on the part of the
Government, but, as suggested by the Secretary of the Treasury, the surplus thus expended for
the purchase of bonds was money drawn from the people in excess of any actual need of the Government
and was so expended rather than allow it to remain idle in the Treasury. If this surplus, under
the operation of just and equitable laws, had been left in the hands of the people, it would
have been worth in their business at least 6 per cent per annum. Deducting from the amount
of interest upon the principal and premium of these bonds for the time they had to run at the
rate of 6 per cent the saving of 2 per cent made for the people by the purchase of such bonds,
the loss will appear to be $55,760,000.

This calculation would seem to demonstrate that if excessive and unnecessary taxation is continued
and the Government is forced to pursue this policy of purchasing its own bonds at the premiums
which it will be necessary to pay, the loss to the people will be hundreds of millions of dollars.

Since the purchase of bonds was undertaken as mentioned nearly all that have been offered were
at last accepted. It has been made quite apparent that the Government was in danger of being
subjected to combinations to raise their price, as appears by the instance cited by the Secretary
of the offering of bonds of the par value of only $326,000 so often that the aggregate of the
sums demanded for their purchase amounted to more than $ 19,700,000.

Notwithstanding the large sums paid out in the purchase of bonds, the surplus in the Treasury
on the 30th day of November, 1888, was $52,234,610.01, after deducting about $20,000,000 just
drawn out for the payment of pensions.

At the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1887, there had been coined under the compulsory
silver-coinage act $266,988,280 in silver dollars, $55,504,310 of which were in the hands of
the people.

On the 30th day of June, 1888, there had been coined $299,708,790; and of this $55,829,303
was in circulation in coin, and $200,387,376 in silver certificates, for the redemption of
which silver dollars to that amount were held by the Government.

On the 30th day of November, 1888, $312,570,990 had been coined, $60,970,990 of the silver
dollars were actually in circulation, and $237,418,346 in certificates.

The Secretary recommends the suspension of the further coinage of silver, and in such recommendation
I earnestly concur.

For further valuable information and timely recommendations I ask the careful attention of
the Congress to the Secretary's report.

The Secretary of War reports that the Army at the date of the last consolidated returns consisted
of 2,189 officers and 24,549 enlisted men.

The actual expenditures of the War Department for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1888, amounted
to $41,165,107.07, of which sum $9,158,516.63 was expended for public works, including river
and harbor improvements.

"The Board of Ordnance and Fortifications" provided for under the act approved September 22
last was convened October 30, 1888, and plans and specifications for procuring forgings for
8, 10, and 12 inch guns, under provisions of section 4, and also for procuring 12-inch breech-loading
mortars, cast iron, hooped with steel, under the provisions of section 5 of the said act, were
submitted to the Secretary of War for reference to the board, by the Ordnance Department, on
the same date.

These plans and specifications having been promptly approved by the board and the Secretary
of War, the necessary authority to publish advertisements inviting proposals in the newspapers
throughout the country was granted by the Secretary on November 12, and on November 13 the
advertisements were sent out to the different newspapers designated. The bids for the steel
forgings are to be opened on December 20, 1888, and for the mortars on December 15, 1888.

A board of ordnance officers was convened at the Watervliet Arsenal on October 4, 1888, to
prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the establishment of an army gun factory
at that point. The preliminary report of this board, with estimates for shop buildings and
officers' quarters, was approved by the Board of Ordnance and Fortifications November 6 and
8. The specifications and form of advertisement and instructions to bidders have been prepared,
and advertisements inviting proposals for the excavations for the shop building and for erecting
the two sets of officers' quarters have been published. The detailed drawings and specifications
for the gun-factory building are well in hand, and will be finished within three or four months,
when bids will be invited for the erection of the building. The list of machines, etc., is
made out, and it is expected that the plans for the large lathes, etc., will be completed within
about four months, and after approval by the Board of Ordnance and Fortifications bids for
furnishing the same will be invited. The machines and other fixtures will be completed as soon
as the shop is in readiness to receive them, probably about July, 1890.

Under the provisions of the Army bill for the procurement of pneumatic dynamite guns, the necessary
specifications are now being prepared, and advertisements for proposals will issue early in
December. The guns will probably be of 15 inches caliber and fire a projectile that will carry
a charge each of about 500 pounds of explosive gelatine with full-caliber projectiles. The
guns will probably be delivered in from six to ten months from the date of the contract, so
that all the guns of this class that can be procured under the provisions of the law will be
purchased during the year 1889.

I earnestly request that the recommendations contained in the Secretary's report, all of which
are, in my opinion, calculated to increase the usefulness and discipline of the Army, may receive
the consideration of the Congress. Among these the proposal that there should be provided a
plan for the examination of officers to test their fitness for promotion is of the utmost importance.
This reform has been before recommended in the reports of the Secretary, and its expediency
is so fully demonstrated by the argument he presents in its favor that its adoption should
no longer be neglected.

The death of General Sheridan in August last was a national affliction. The Army then lost
the grandest of its chiefs. The country lost a brave and experienced soldier, a wise and discreet
counselor, and a modest and sensible man. Those who in any manner came within the range of
his personal association will never fail to pay deserved and willing homage to his greatness
and the glory of his career, but they will cherish with more tender sensibility the loving
memory of his simple, generous, and considerate nature.

The Apache Indians, whose removal from their reservation in Arizona followed the capture of
those of their number who engaged in a bloody and murderous raid during a part of the years
1885 and 1886, are now held as prisoners of war at Mount Vernon Barracks, in the State of Alabama.
They numbered on the 31st day of October, the date of the last report, 83 men, 170 women, 70
boys, and 59 girls; in all, 382 persons. The commanding officer states that they are in good
health and contented, and that they are kept employed as fully as is possible in the circumstances.
The children, as they arrive at a suitable age, are sent to the Indian schools at Carlisle
and Hampton.

Last summer some charitable and kind people asked permission to send two teachers to these
Indians for the purpose of instructing the adults as well as such children as should be found
there. Such permission was readily granted, accommodations were provided for the teachers,
and some portions of the buildings at the barracks were made available for school purposes.
The good work contemplated has been commenced, and the teachers engaged are paid by the ladies
with whom the plan originated.

I am not at all in sympathy with those benevolent but injudicious people who are constantly
insisting that these Indians should be returned to their reservation. Their removal was an
absolute necessity if the lives and property of citizens upon the frontier are to be at all
regarded by the Government. Their continued restraint at a distance from the scene of their
repeated and cruel murders and outrages is still necessary. It is a mistaken philanthropy,
every way injurious, which prompts the desire to see these savages returned to their old haunts.
They are in their present location as the result of the best judgment of those having official
responsibility in the matter, and who are by no means lacking in kind consideration for the
Indians. A number of these prisoners have forfeited their lives to outraged law and humanity.
Experience has proved that they are dangerous and can not be trusted. This is true not only
of those who on the warpath have heretofore actually been guilty of atrocious murder, but of
their kindred and friends, who, while they remained upon their reservation, furnished aid and
comfort to those absent with bloody intent.

These prisoners should be treated kindly and kept in restraint far from the locality of their
former reservation; they should be subjected to efforts calculated to lead to their improvement
and the softening of their savage and cruel instincts, but their return to their old home should
be persistently resisted.

The Secretary in his report gives a graphic history of these Indians, and recites with painful
vividness their bloody deeds and the unhappy failure of the Government to manage them by peaceful
means. It will be amazing if a perusal of this history will allow the survival of a desire
for the return of these prisoners to their reservation upon sentimental or any other grounds.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy demonstrates very intelligent management in that important
Department, and discloses the most satisfactory progress in the work of reconstructing the
Navy made during the past year. Of the ships in course of construction five, viz, the Charleston,
Baltimore, Yorktown, Vesuvius, and the Petrel, have in that time been launched and are rapidly
approaching completion; and in addition to the above, the Philadelphia, the San Francisco,
the Newark, the Bennington, the Concord, and the Herreshoff torpedo boat are all under contract
for delivery to the Department during the next year. The progress already made and being made
gives good ground for the expectation that these eleven vessels will be incorporated as part
of the American Navy within the next twelve months.

The report shows that notwithstanding the large expenditures for new construction and the additional
labor they involve the total ordinary or current expenditures of the Department for the three
years ending June 30, 1888, are less by more than 20 per cent than such expenditures for the
three years ending June 30, 1884.

The various steps which have been taken to improve the business methods of the Department are
reviewed by the Secretary. The purchasing of supplies has been consolidated and placed under
a responsible bureau head. This has resulted in the curtailment of open purchases, which in
the years 1884 and 1885 amounted to over 50 per cent of all the purchases of the Department,
to less than 11 per cent; so that at the present time about 90 per cent of the total departmental
purchases are made by contract and after competition. As the expenditures on this account exceed
an average of $2,000,000 annually, it is evident that an important improvement in the system
has been inaugurated and substantial economies introduced.

The report of the Postmaster-General shows a marked increase of business in every branch of
the postal service.

The number of post-offices on July 1, 1888, was 57,376, an increase of 6,124 in three years
and of 2,219 for the last fiscal year. The latter-mentioned increase is classified as follows:

New England States -

Middle States - 181

Southern States and Indian Territory (41) - 1,406

The States and Territories of the Pacific Coast - 190

The ten States and Territories of the West and Northwest - 435

District of Columbia - 2 -

***

State of the Union Address Benjamin Harrison December 3, 1889

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

There are few transactions in the administration of the Government that are even temporarily
held in the confidence of those charged with the conduct of the public business. Every step
taken is under the observation of an intelligent and watchful people. The state of the Union
is known from day to day, and suggestions as to needed legislation find an earlier voice than
that which speaks in these annual communications of the President to Congress.

Good will and cordiality have characterized our relations and correspondence with other governments,
and the year just closed leaves few international questions of importance remaining unadjusted.
No obstacle is believed to exist that can long postpone the consideration and adjustment of
the still pending questions upon satisfactory and honorable terms. The dealings of this Government
with other states have been and should always be marked by frankness and sincerity, our purposes
avowed, and our methods free from intrigue. This course has borne rich fruit in the past, and
it is our duty as a nation to preserve the heritage of good repute which a century of right
dealing with foreign governments has secured to us.

It is a matter of high significance and no less of congratulation that the first year of the
second century of our constitutional existence finds as honored guests within our borders the
representatives of all the independent States of North and South America met together in earnest
conference touching the best methods of perpetuating and expanding the relations of mutual
interest and friendliness existing among them. That the opportunity thus afforded for promoting
closer international relations and the increased prosperity of the States represented will
be used for the mutual good of all I can not permit myself to doubt. Our people will await
with interest and confidence the results to flow from so auspicious a meeting of allied and
in large part identical interests.

The recommendations of this international conference of enlightened statesmen will doubtless
have the considerate attention of Congress and its cooperation in the removal of unnecessary
barriers to beneficial intercourse between the nations of America. But while the commercial
results which it is hoped will follow this conference are worthy of pursuit and of the great
interests they have excited, it is believed that the crowning benefit will be found in the
better securities which may be devised for the maintenance of peace among all American nations
and the settlement of all contentions by methods that a Christian civilization can approve.
While viewing with interest our national resources and products, the delegates will, I am sure,
find a higher satisfaction in the evidences of unselfish friendship which everywhere attend
their intercourse with our people.

Another international conference having great possibilities for good has lately assembled and
is now in session in this capital. An invitation was extended by the Government, under the
act of Congress of July 9, 1888, to all maritime nations to send delegates to confer touching
the revision and amendment of the rules and regulations governing vessels at sea and to adopt
a uniform system of marine signals. The response to this invitation has been very general and
very cordial. Delegates from twenty-six nations are present in the conference, and they have
entered upon their useful work with great zeal and with an evident appreciation of its importance.
So far as the agreement to be reached may require legislation to give it effect, the cooperation
of Congress is confidently relied upon.

It is an interesting, if not, indeed, an unprecedented, fact that the two international conferences
have brought together here the accredited representatives of thirty-three nations.

Bolivia, Ecuador, and Honduras are now represented by resident envoys of the plenipotentiary
grade. All the States of the American system now maintain diplomatic representation at this
capital.

In this connection it may be noted that all the nations of the Western Hemisphere, with one
exception, send to Washington envoys extraordinary and ministers plenipotentiary, being the
highest grade accredited to this Government. The United States, on the contrary, sends envoys
of lower grades to some of our sister Republics. Our representative in Paraguay and Uruguay
is a minister resident, while to Bolivia we send a minister resident and consul-general. In
view of the importance of our relations with the States of the American system, our diplomatic
agents in those countries should be of the uniform rank of envoy extraordinary and minister
plenipotentiary. Certain missions were so elevated by the last Congress with happy effect,
and I recommend the completion of the reform thus begun, with the inclusion also of Hawaii
and Hayti, in view of their relations to the American system of states.

I also recommend that timely provision be made for extending to Hawaii an invitation to be
represented in the international conference now sitting at this capital.

Our relations with China have the attentive consideration which their magnitude and interest
demand. The failure of the treaty negotiated under the Administration of my predecessor for
the further and more complete restriction of Chinese labor immigration, and with it the legislation
of the last session of Congress dependent thereon, leaves some questions open which Congress
should now approach in that wise and just spirit which should characterize the relations of
two great and friendly powers. While our supreme interests demand the exclusion of a laboring
element which experience has shown to be incompatible with our social life, all steps to compass
this imperative need should be accompanied with a recognition of the claim of those strangers
now lawfully among us to humane and just treatment.

The accession of the young Emperor of China marks, we may hope, an era of progress and prosperity
for the great country over which he is called to rule.

The present state of affairs in respect to the Samoan Islands is encouraging. The conference
which was held in this city in the summer of 1887 between the representatives of the United
States, Germany, and Great Britain having been adjourned because of the persistent divergence
of views which was developed in its deliberations, the subsequent course of events in the islands
gave rise to questions of a serious character. On the 4th of February last the German minister
at this capital, in behalf of his Government, proposed a resumption of the conference at Berlin.
This proposition was accepted, as Congress in February last was informed.

Pursuant to the understanding thus reached, commissioners were appointed by me, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, who proceeded to Berlin, where the conference was renewed.
The deliberations extended through several weeks, and resulted in the conclusion of a treaty
which will be submitted to the Senate for its approval. I trust that the efforts which have
been made to effect an adjustment of this question will be productive of the permanent establishment
of law and order in Samoa upon the basis of the maintenance of the rights and interests of
the natives as well as of the treaty powers.

The questions which have arisen during the past few years between Great Britain and the United
States are in abeyance or in course of amicable adjustment.

On the part of the government of the Dominion of Canada an effort has been apparent during
the season just ended to administer the laws and regulations applicable to the fisheries with
as little occasion for friction as was possible, and the temperate representations of this
Government in respect of cases of undue hardship or of harsh interpretations have been in most
cases met with measures of transitory relief. It is trusted that the attainment of our just
rights under existing treaties and in virtue of the concurrent legislation of the two contiguous
countries will not be long deferred and that all existing causes of difference may be equitably
adjusted.

I recommend that provision be made by an international agreement for visibly marking the water
boundary between the United States and Canada in the narrow channels that join the Great Lakes.
The conventional line therein traced by the northwestern boundary survey years ago is not in
all cases readily ascertainable for the settlement of jurisdictional questions.

A just and acceptable enlargement of the list of offenses for which extradition may be claimed
and granted is most desirable between this country and Great Britain. The territory of neither
should become a secure harbor for the evil doers of the other through any avoidable shortcoming
in this regard. A new treaty on this subject between the two powers has been recently negotiated
and will soon be laid before the Senate.

The importance of the commerce of Cuba and Puerto Rico with the United States, their nearest
and principal market, justifies the expectation that the existing relations may be beneficially
expanded. The impediments resulting from varying dues on navigation and from the vexatious
treatment of our vessels on merely technical grounds of complaint in West India ports should
be removed.

The progress toward an adjustment of pending claims between the United States and Spain is
not as rapid as could be desired.

Questions affecting American interests in connection with railways constructed and operated
by our citizens in Peru have claimed the attention of this Government. It is urged that other
governments in pressing Peru to the payment of their claims have disregarded the property rights
of American citizens. The matter will be carefully investigated with a view to securing a proper
and equitable adjustment.

A similar issue is now pending with Portugal. The Delagoa Bay Railway, in Africa, was constructed
under a concession by Portugal to an American citizen. When nearly completed the road was seized
by the agents of the Portuguese Government. Formal protest has been made through our minister
at Lisbon against this act, and no proper effort will be spared to secure proper relief.

In pursuance of the charter granted by Congress and under the terms of its contract with the
Government of Nicaragua the Interoceanic Canal Company has begun the construction of the important
waterway between the two oceans which its organization contemplates. Grave complications for
a time seemed imminent, in view of a supposed conflict of jurisdiction between Nicaragua and
Costa Rica in regard to the accessory privileges to be conceded by the latter Republic toward
the construction of works on the San Juan River, of which the right bank is Costa Rican territory.
I am happy to learn that a friendly arrangement has been effected between the two nations.
This Government has held itself ready to promote in every proper way the adjustment of all
questions that might present obstacles to the completion of a work of such transcendent importance
to the commerce of this country, and, indeed, to the commercial interests of the world.

The traditional good feeling between this country and the French Republic has received additional
testimony in the participation of our Government and people in the international exposition
held at Paris during the past summer. The success of our exhibitors has been gratifying. The
report of the commission will be laid before Congress in due season.

This Government has accepted, under proper reserve as to its policy in foreign territories,
the invitation of the Government of Belgium to take part in an international congress, which
opened at Brussels on the 16th of November, for the purpose of devising measures to promote
the abolition of the slave trade in Africa and to prevent the shipment of slaves by sea. Our
interest in the extinction of this crime against humanity in the regions where it yet survives
has been increased by the results of emancipation within our own borders.

With Germany the most cordial relations continue. The questions arising from the return to
the Empire of Germans naturalized in this country are considered and disposed of in a temperate
spirit to the entire satisfaction of both Governments.

It is a source of great satisfaction that the internal disturbances of the Republic of Hayti
are at last happily ended, and that an apparently stable government has been constituted. It
has been duly recognized by the United States.

A mixed commission is now in session in this capital for the settlement of long-standing claims
against the Republic of Venezuela, and it is hoped that a satisfactory conclusion will be speedily
reached. This Government has not hesitated to express its earnest desire that the boundary
dispute now pending between Great Britain and Venezuela may be adjusted amicably and in strict
accordance with the historic title of the parties.

The advancement of the Empire of Japan has been evidenced by the recent promulgation of a new
constitution, containing valuable guaranties of liberty and providing for a responsible ministry
to conduct the Government.

It is earnestly recommended that our judicial rights and processes in Korea be established
on a firm basis by providing the machinery necessary to carry out treaty stipulations in that
regard.

The friendliness of the Persian Government continues to be shown by its generous treatment
of Americans engaged in missionary labors and by the cordial disposition of the Shah to encourage
the enterprise of our citizens in the development of Persian resources.

A discussion is in progress touching the jurisdictional treaty rights of the United States
in Turkey. An earnest effort will be made to define those rights to the satisfaction of both
Governments.

Questions continue to arise in our relations with several countries in respect to the rights
of naturalized citizens. Especially is this the case with France, Italy, Russia, and Turkey,
and to a less extent with Switzerland. From time to time earnest efforts have been made to
regulate this subject by conventions with those countries. An improper use of naturalization
should not be permitted, but it is most important that those who have been duly naturalized
should everywhere be accorded recognition of the rights pertaining to the citizenship of the
country of their adoption. The appropriateness of special conventions for that purpose is recognized
in treaties which this Government has concluded with a number of European States, and it is
advisable that the difficulties which now arise in our relations with other countries on the
same subject should be similarly adjusted.

The recent revolution in Brazil in favor of the establishment of a republican form of government
is an event of great interest to the United States. Our minister at Rio de Janeiro was at once
instructed to maintain friendly diplomatic relations with the Provisional Government, and the
Brazilian representatives at this capital were instructed by the Provisional Government to
continue their functions. Our friendly intercourse with Brazil has therefore suffered no interruption.

Our minister has been further instructed to extend on the part of this Government a formal
and cordial recognition of the new Republic so soon as the majority of the people of Brazil
shall have signified their assent to its establishment and maintenance.

Within our own borders a general condition of prosperity prevails. The harvests of the last
summer were exceptionally abundant, and the trade conditions now prevailing seem to promise
a successful season to the merchant and the manufacturer and general employment to our working
people.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1889, has been
prepared and will be presented to Congress. It presents with clearness the fiscal operations
of the Government, and I avail myself of it to obtain some facts for use here.

The aggregate receipts from all sources for the year were $387,050,058.84, derived as follows:

From customs - $223, 832, 741.69

From internal revenue - 130,881,513.92

From miscellaneous sources - 32,335,803.23

The ordinary expenditures for the same period were $281,996,615.60, and the total expenditures,
including the sinking fund, were $329,579,929.25. The excess of receipts over expenditures
was, after providing for the sinking fund, $57,470,129.59.

For the current fiscal year the total revenues, actual and estimated are $385,000,000, and
the ordinary expenditures, actual and estimated, are $293,000,000, making with the sinking
fund a total expenditure of $341,321,116.99, leaving an estimated surplus of $43,678,883.01.

During the fiscal year there was applied to the purchase of bonds, in addition to those for
the sinking fund, $90,456,172.35, and during the first quarter of the current year the sum
of $37,838,937.77, all of which were credited to the sinking fund. The revenues for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1891, are estimated by the Treasury Department at $385,000,000, and the
expenditures for the same period, including the sinking fund, at $341,430,477.70. This shows
an estimated surplus for that year of $43,569,522.30, which is more likely to be increased
than reduced when the actual transactions are written up.

The existence of so large an actual and anticipated surplus should have the immediate attention
of Congress, with a view to reducing the receipts of the Treasury to the needs of the Government
as closely as may be. The collection of moneys not needed for public uses imposes an unnecessary
burden upon our people, and the presence of so large a surplus in the public vaults is a disturbing
element in the conduct of private business. It has called into use expedients for putting it
into circulation of very questionable propriety. We should not collect revenue for the purpose
of anticipating our bonds beyond the requirements of the sinking fund, but any unappropriated
surplus in the Treasury should be so used, as there is no other lawful way of returning the
money to circulation, and the profit realized by the Government offers a substantial advantage.

The loaning of public funds to the banks without interest Upon the security of Government bonds
I regard as an unauthorized and dangerous expedient. It results in a temporary and unnatural
increase of the banking capital of favored localities and compels a cautious and gradual recall
of the deposits to avoid injury to the commercial interests. It is not to be expected that
the banks having these deposits will sell their bonds to the Treasury so long as the present
highly beneficial arrangement is continued. They now practically get interest both upon the
bonds and their proceeds. No further use should be made of this method of getting the surplus
into circulation, and the deposits now outstanding should be gradually withdrawn and applied
to the purchase of bonds. It is fortunate that such a use can be made of the existing surplus,
and for some time to come of any casual surplus that may exist after Congress has taken the
necessary steps for a reduction of the revenue. Such legislation should be promptly but very
considerately enacted.

I recommend a revision of our tariff law both in its administrative features and in the schedules.
The need of the former is generally conceded, and an agreement upon the evils and inconveniences
to be remedied and the best methods for their correction will probably not be difficult. Uniformity
of valuation at all our ports is essential, and effective measures should be taken to secure
it. It is equally desirable that questions affecting rates and classifications should be promptly
decided.

The preparation of a new schedule of customs duties is a matter of great delicacy because of
its direct effect upon the business of the country, and of great difficulty by reason of the
wide divergence of opinion as to the objects that may properly be promoted by such legislation.
Some disturbance of business may perhaps result from the consideration of this subject by Congress,
but this temporary ill effect will be reduced to the minimum by prompt action and by the assurance
which the country already enjoys that any necessary changes will be so made as not to impair
the just and reasonable protection of our home industries. The inequalities of the law should
be adjusted, but the protective principle should be maintained and fairly applied to the products
of our farms as well as of our shops. These duties necessarily have relation to other things
besides the public revenues. We can not limit their effects by fixing our eyes on the public
Treasury alone. They have a direct relation to home production, to work, to wages, and to the
commercial independence of our country, and the wise and patriotic legislator should enlarge
the field of his vision to include all of these. The necessary reduction in our public revenues
can, I am sure, be made without making the smaller burden more onerous than the larger by reason
of the disabilities and limitations which the process of reduction puts upon both capital and
labor. The free list can very safely be extended by placing thereon articles that do not offer
injurious competition to such domestic products as our home labor can supply. The removal of
the internal tax upon tobacco would relieve an important agricultural product from a burden
which was imposed only because our revenue from customs duties was insufficient for the public
needs. If safe provision against fraud can be devised, the removal of the tax upon spirits
used in the arts and in manufactures would also offer an unobjectionable method of reducing
the surplus.

A table presented by the Secretary of the Treasury showing the amount of money of all kinds
in circulation each year from 1878 to the present time is of interest. It appears that the
amount of national-bank notes in circulation has decreased during that period $114,109,729,
of which $37,799,229 is chargeable to the last year. The withdrawal of bank circulation will
necessarily continue under existing conditions. It is probable that the adoption of the suggestions
made by the Comptroller of the Currency, namely, that the minimum deposit of bonds for the
establishment of banks be reduced and that an issue of notes to the par value of the bonds
be allowed, would help to maintain the bank circulation. But while this withdrawal of bank
notes has been going on there has been a large increase in the amount of gold and silver coin
in circulation and in the issues of gold and silver certificates.

The total amount of money of all kinds in circulation on March 1, 1878, was $805,793,807, while
on October 1, 1889, the total was $1,405,018,000. There was an increase of $293,417,552 in
gold coin, of $57,554,100 in standard silver dollars, of $72,311,249 in gold certificates,
of $276,619,715 in silver certificates, and of $14,073,787 in United States notes, making a
total of $713,976,403. There was during the same period a decrease of $114,109,729 in bank
circulation and of $642,481 in subsidiary silver. The net increase was $599,224,193. The circulation
per capita has increased about $5 during the time covered by the table referred to.

The total coinage of silver dollars was on November 1, 1889, $343,638,001, of which $283,539,521
were in the Treasury vaults and $60,098,480 were in circulation. Of the amount in the vaults
$277,319,944 were represented by outstanding silver certificates, leaving $6,219,577 not in
circulation and not represented by certificates.

The law requiring the purchase by the Treasury of $2,000,000 worth of silver bullion each month,
to be coined into silver dollars of 412 1/2 grains, has been observed by the Department, but
neither the present Secretary nor any of his predecessors has deemed it safe to exercise the
discretion given by law to increase the monthly purchases to $4,000,000. When the law was enacted
(February 28, 1878) the price of silver in the market was $1.204 per ounce, making the bullion
value of the dollar 93 cents. Since that time the price has fallen as low as 91.2 cents per
ounce, reducing the bullion value of the dollar to 70.6 cents. Within the last few months the
market price has somewhat advanced, and on the 1st day of November last the bullion value of
the silver dollar was 72 cents.

The evil anticipations which have accompanied the coinage and use of the silver dollar have
not been realized. As a coin it has not had general use, and the public Treasury has been compelled
to store it. But this is manifestly owing to the fact that its paper representative is more
convenient. The general acceptance and the use of the silver certificate show that silver has
not been otherwise discredited. Some favorable conditions have contributed to maintain this
practical equality in their commercial use between the gold and silver dollars; but some of
these are trade conditions that statutory enactments do not control and of the continuance
of which we can not be certain.

I think it is clear that if we should make the coinage of silver at the present ratio free
we must expect that the difference in the bullion values of the gold and silver dollars will
be taken account of in commercial transactions; and I fear the same result would follow any
considerable increase of the present rate of coinage. Such a result would be discreditable
to our financial management and disastrous to all business interests. We should not tread the
dangerous edge of such a peril. And, indeed, nothing more harmful could happen to the silver
interests. Any safe legislation upon this subject must secure the equality of the two coins
in their commercial uses.

I have always been an advocate of the use of silver in our currency. We are large producers
of that metal, and should not discredit it. To the plan which will be presented by the Secretary
of the Treasury for the issuance of notes or certificates upon the deposit of silver bullion
at its market value I have been able to give only a hasty examination, owing to the press of
other matters and to the fact that it has been so recently formulated. The details of such
a law require careful consideration, but the general plan suggested by him seems to satisfy
the purpose--to continue the use of silver in connection with our currency and at the same
time to obviate the danger of which I have spoken. At a later day I may communicate further
with Congress upon this subject.

The enforcement of the Chinese exclusion act has been found to be very difficult on the northwestern
frontier. Chinamen landing at Victoria find it easy to pass our border, owing to the impossibility
with the force at the command of the customs officers of guarding so long an inland line. The
Secretary of the Treasury has authorized the employment of additional officers, who will be
assigned to this duty, and every effort will be made to enforce the law. The Dominion exacts
a head tax of $50 for each Chinaman landed, and when these persons, in fraud of our law, cross
into our territory and are apprehended our officers do not know what to do with them, as the
Dominion authorities will not suffer them to be sent back without a second payment of the tax.
An effort will be made to reach an understanding that will remove this difficulty.

The proclamation required by section 3 of the act of March 2, 1889, relating to the killing
of seals and other fur-bearing animals, was issued by me on the 21st day of March, and a revenue
vessel was dispatched to enforce the laws and protect the interests of the United States. The
establishment of a refuge station at Point Barrow, as directed by Congress, was successfully
accomplished.

Judged by modern standards, we are practically without coast defenses. Many of the structures
we have would enhance rather than diminish the perils of their garrisons if subjected to the
fire of improved guns, and very few are so located as to give full effect to the greater range
of such guns as we are now making for coast-defense uses. This general subject has had consideration
in Congress for some years, and the appropriation for the construction of large rifled guns
made one year ago was, I am sure, the expression of a purpose to provide suitable works in
which these guns might be mounted. An appropriation now made for that purpose would not advance
the completion of the works beyond our ability to supply them with fairly effective guns.

The security of our coast cities against foreign attacks should not rest altogether in the
friendly disposition of other nations. There should be a second line wholly in our own keeping.
I very urgently recommend an appropriation at this session for the construction of such works
in our most exposed harbors.

I approve the suggestion of the Secretary of War that provision be made for encamping companies
of the National Guard in our coast works for a specified time each year and for their training
in the use of heavy guns. His suggestion that an increase of the artillery force of the Army
is desirable is also, in this connection, commended to the consideration of Congress.

The improvement of our important rivers and harbors should be promoted by the necessary appropriations.
Care should be taken that the Government is not committed to the prosecution of works not of
public and general advantage and that the relative usefulness of works of that class is not
overlooked. So far as this work can ever be said to be completed, I do not doubt that the end
would be sooner and more economically reached if fewer separate works were undertaken at the
same time, and those selected for their greater general interest were more rapidly pushed to
completion. A work once considerably begun should not be subjected to the risks and deterioration
which interrupted or insufficient appropriations necessarily occasion.

The assault made by David S. Terry upon the person of Justice Field, of the Supreme Court of
the United States, at Lathtop, Cal., in August last, and the killing of the assailant by a
deputy United States marshal who had been deputed to accompany Justice Field and to protect
him from anticipated violence at the hands of Terry, in connection with the legal proceedings
which have followed, suggest questions which, in my judgment, are worthy of the attention of
Congress.

I recommend that more definite provision be made by law not only for the protection of Federal
officers, but for a full trial of such cases in the United States courts. In recommending such
legislation I do not at all impeach either the general adequacy of the provision made by the
State laws for the protection of all citizens or the general good disposition of those charged
with the execution of such laws to give protection to the officers of the United States. The
duty of protecting its officers, as such, and of punishing those who assault them on account
of their official acts should not be devolved expressly or by acquiescence upon the local authorities.

Events which have been brought to my attention happening in other parts of the country have
also suggested the propriety of extending by legislation fuller protection to those who may
be called as witnesses in the courts of the United States. The law compels those who are supposed
to have knowledge of public offenses to attend upon our courts and grand juries and to give
evidence. There is a manifest resulting duty that these witnesses shall be protected from injury
on account of their testimony. The investigations of criminal offenses are often rendered futile
and the punishment of crime impossible by the intimidation of witnesses.

The necessity of providing some more speedy method for disposing of the cases which now come
for final adjudication to the Supreme Court becomes every year more apparent and urgent. The
plan of providing some intermediate courts having final appellate jurisdiction of certain classes
of questions and cases has, I think, received a more general approval from the bench and bar
of the country than any other. Without attempting to discuss details, I recommend that provision
be made for the establishment of such courts.

The salaries of the judges of the district courts in many of the districts are, in my judgment,
inadequate. I recommend that all such salaries now below $5,000 per annum be increased to that
amount. It is quite true that the amount of labor performed by these judges is very unequal,
but as they can not properly engage in other pursuits to supplement their incomes the salary
should be such in all cases as to provide an independent and comfortable support.

Earnest attention should be given by Congress to a consideration of the question how far the
restraint of those combinations of capital commonly called "trusts" is matter of Federal jurisdiction.
When organized, as they often are, to crush out all healthy competition and to monopolize the
production or sale of an article of commerce and general necessity, they are dangerous conspiracies
against the public good, and should be made the subject of prohibitory and even penal legislation.

The subject of an international copyright has been frequently commended to the attention of
Congress by my predecessors. The enactment of such a law would be eminently wise and just.

Our naturalization laws should be so revised as to make the inquiry into the moral character
and good disposition toward our Government of the persons applying for citizenship more thorough.
This can only be done by taking fuller control of the examination, by fixing the times for
hearing such applications, and by requiring the presence of some one who shall represent the
Government in the inquiry. Those who are the avowed enemies of social order or who come to
our shores to swell the injurious influence and to extend the evil practices of any association
that defies our laws should not only be denied citizenship, but a domicile.

The enactment of a national bankrupt law of a character to be a permanent part of our general
legislation is desirable. It should be simple in its methods and inexpensive in its administration.

The report of the Postmaster-General not only exhibits the operations of the Department for
the last fiscal year, but contains many valuable suggestions for the improvement and extension
of the service, which are commended to your attention. No other branch of the Government has
so close a contact with the daily life of the people. Almost everyone uses the service it offers,
and every hour gained in the transmission of the great commercial mails has an actual and possible
value that only those engaged in trade can understand.

The saving of one day in the transmission of the mails between New York and San Francisco,
which has recently been accomplished, is an incident worthy of mention.

The plan suggested of a supervision of the post-offices in separate districts that shall involve
instruction and suggestion and a rating of the efficiency of the postmasters would, I have
no doubt, greatly improve the service.

A pressing necessity exists for the erection of a building for the joint use of the Department
and of the city post-office. The Department was partially relieved by renting .outside quarters
for a part of its force, but it is again overcrowded. The building used by the city office
never was fit for the purpose, and is now inadequate and unwholesome.

The unsatisfactory condition of the law relating to the transmission through the mails of lottery
advertisements and remittances is clearly stated by the Postmaster-General, and his suggestion
as to amendments should have your favorable consideration.

The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows a reorganization of the bureaus of the Department
that will, I do not doubt, promote the efficiency of each.

In general, satisfactory progress has been made in the construction of the new ships of war
authorized by Congress. The first vessel of the new Navy, the Dolphin, was subjected to very
severe trial tests and to very much adverse criticism; but it is gratifying to be able to state
that a cruise around the world, from which she has recently returned, has demonstrated that
she is a first-class vessel of her rate.

The report of the Secretary shows that while the effective force of the Navy is rapidly increasing
by reason of the improved build and armament of the new ships, the number of our ships fit
for sea duty grows very slowly. We had on the 4th of March last 37 serviceable ships, and though
4 have since been added to the list, the total has not been increased, because in the meantime
4 have been lost or condemned. Twenty-six additional vessels have been authorized and appropriated
for; but it is probable that when they are completed our list will only be increased to 42--a
gain of 5. The old wooden ships are disappearing almost as fast as the new vessels are added.
These facts carry their own argument. One of the new ships may in fighting strength be equal
to two of the old, but it can not do the cruising duty of two. It is important, therefore,
that we should have a more rapid increase in the number of serviceable ships. I concur in the
recommendation of the Secretary that the construction of 8 armored ships, 3 gunboats, and 5
torpedo boats be authorized.

An appalling calamity befell three of our naval vessels on duty at the Samoan Islands, in the
harbor of Apia, in March last, involving the loss of 4 officers and 47 seamen, of two vessels,
the Trenton and the Vandalia, and the disabling of a third, the Nipsic. Three vessels of the
German navy, also in the harbor, shared with our ships the force of the hurricane and suffered
even more heavily. While mourning the brave officers and men who died facing with high resolve
perils greater than those of battle, it is most gratifying to state that the credit of the
American Navy for seamanship, courage, and generosity was magnificently sustained in the storm-beaten
harbor of Apia.

The report of the Secretary of the Interior exhibits the transactions of the Government with
the Indian tribes. Substantial progress has been made in the education of the children of school
age and in the allotment of lands to adult Indians. It is to be regretted that the policy of
breaking up the tribal relation and of dealing with the Indian as an individual did not appear
earlier in our legislation. Large reservations held in common and the maintenance of the authority
of the chiefs and headmen have deprived the individual of every incentive to the exercise of
thrift, and the annuity has contributed an affirmative impulse toward a state of confirmed
pauperism.

Our treaty stipulations should be observed with fidelity and our legislation should be highly
considerate of the best interests of an ignorant and helpless people. The reservations are
now generally surrounded by white settlements. We can no longer push the Indian back into the
wilderness, and it remains only by every suitable agency to push him upward into the estate
of a self-supporting and responsible citizen. For the adult the first step is to locate him
upon a farm, and for the child to place him in a school.

School attendance should be promoted by every moral agency, and those failing should be compelled.
The national schools for Indians have been very successful and should be multiplied, and as
far as possible should be so organized and conducted as to facilitate the transfer of the schools
to the States or Territories in which they are located when the Indians in a neighborhood have
accepted citizenship and have become otherwise fitted for such a transfer. This condition of
things will be attained slowly, but it will be hastened by keeping it in mind; and in the meantime
that cooperation between the Government and the mission schools which has wrought much good
should be cordially and impartially maintained.

The last Congress enacted two distinct laws relating to negotiations with the Sioux Indians
of Dakota for a relinquishment of a portion of their lands to the United States and for dividing
the remainder into separate reservations. Both were approved on the same day--March 2. The
one submitted to the Indians a specific proposition; the other (section 3 of the Indian appropriation
act) authorized the President to appoint three commissioners to negotiate with these Indians
for the accomplishment of the same general purpose, and required that any agreements made should
be submitted to Congress for ratification.

On the 16th day of April last I appointed Hon. Charles Foster, of Ohio, Hon. William Warner,
of Missouri, and Major-General George Crook, of the United States Army, commissioners under
the last-named law. They were, however, authorized and directed first to submit to the Indians
the definite proposition made to them by the act first mentioned, and only in the event of
a failure to secure the assent of the requisite number to that proposition to open negotiations
for modified terms under the other act. The work of the commission was prolonged and arduous,
but the assent of the requisite number was, it is understood, finally obtained to the proposition
made by Congress, though the report of the commission has not yet been submitted. In view of
these facts, I shall not, as at present advised, deem it necessary to submit the agreement
to Congress for ratification, but it will in due course be submitted for information. This
agreement releases to the United States about 9,000,000 acres of land.

The commission provided for by section 14 of the Indian appropriation bill to negotiate with
the Cherokee Indians and all other Indians owning or claiming lands lying west of the ninety-sixth
degree of longitude for the cession to the United States of all such lands was constituted
by the appointment of Hon. Lucius Fairchild, of Wisconsin, Hon. John F. Hartranft, of Pennsylvania,
and Hon. Alfred M. Wilson, of Arkansas, and organized on June 29 last. Their first conference
with the representatives of the Cherokees was held at Tahlequah July 29, with no definite results.
General John F. Hartranft, of Pennsylvania, was prevented by ill health from taking part in
the conference. His death, which occurred recently, is justly and generally lamented by a people
he had served with conspicuous gallantry in war and with great fidelity in peace. The vacancy
thus created was filled by the appointment of Hon. Warren G. Sayre, of Indiana.

A second conference between the commission and the Cherokees was begun November 6, but no results
have yet been obtained, nor is it believed that a conclusion can be immediately expected. The
cattle syndicate now occupying the lands for grazing purposes is clearly one of the agencies
responsible for the obstruction of our negotiations with the Cherokees. The large body of agricultural
lands constituting what is known as the "Cherokee Outlet" ought not to be, and, indeed, can
not long be, held for grazing and for the advantage of a few against the public interests and
the best advantage of the Indians themselves. The United States has now under the treaties
certain rights in these lands. These will not be used oppressively, but it can not be allowed
that those who by sufferance occupy these lands shall interpose to defeat the wise and beneficent
purposes of the Government. I can not but believe that the advantageous character of the offer
made by the United States to the Cherokee Nation for a full release of these lands as compared
with other suggestions now made to them will yet obtain for it a favorable consideration.

Under the agreement made between the United States and the Muscogee (or Creek) Nation of Indians
on the 19th day of January, 1889, an absolute title was secured by the United States to about
3,500,000 acres of land. Section 12 of the general Indian appropriation act approved March
2, 1889, made provision for the purchase by the United States from the Seminole tribe of a
certain portion of their lands. The delegates of the Seminole Nation, having first duly evidenced
to me their power to act in that behalf, delivered a proper release or conveyance to the United
States of all the lands mentioned in the act, which was accepted by me and certified to be
in compliance with the statute.

By the terms of both the acts referred to all the lands so purchased were declared to be a
part of the public domain and open to settlement under the homestead law. But of the lands
embraced in these purchases, being in the aggregate about 5,500,000 acres, 3,500,000 acres
had already, under the terms of the treaty of 1866, been acquired by the United States for
the purpose of settling other Indian tribes thereon and had been appropriated to that purpose.
The land remaining and available for settlement consisted of 1,887,796 acres, surrounded on
all sides by lands in the occupancy of Indian tribes. Congress had provided no civil government
for the people who were to be invited by my proclamation to settle upon these lands, except
as the new court which had been established at Muscogee or the United States courts in some
of the adjoining States had power to enforce the general laws of the United States.

In this condition of things I was quite reluctant to open the lands to settlement; but in view
of the fact that several thousand persons, many of them with their families, had gathered upon
the borders of the Indian Territory with a view to securing homesteads on the ceded lands,
and that delay would involve them in much loss and suffering, I did on the 23d day of March
last issue a proclamation declaring that the lands therein described would be open to settlement
under the provisions of the law on the 22d day of April following at 12 o'clock noon. Two land
districts had been established and the offices were opened for the transaction of business
when the appointed time arrived.

It is much to the credit of the settlers that they very generally observed the limitation as
to the time when they might enter the Territory. Care will be taken that those who entered
in violation of the law do not secure the advantage they unfairly sought. There was a good
deal of apprehension that the strife for locations would result in much violence and bloodshed,
but happily these anticipations were not realized. It is estimated that there are now in the
Territory about 60,000 people, and several considerable towns have sprung up, for which temporary
municipal governments have been organized. Guthrie is said to have now a population of almost
8,000. Eleven schools and nine churches have been established, and three daily and five weekly
newspapers are published in this city, whose charter and ordinances have only the sanction
of the voluntary acquiescence of the people from day to day.

Oklahoma City has a population of about 5,000, and is proportionately as well provided as Guthrie
with churches, schools, and newspapers. Other towns and villages having populations of from
100 to 1,000 are scattered over the Territory.

In order to secure the peace of this new community in the absence of civil government, I directed
General Merritt, commanding the Department of the Missouri, to act in conjunction with the
marshals of the United States to preserve the peace, and upon their requisition to use the
troops to aid them in executing warrants and in quieting any riots or breaches of the peace
that might occur. He was further directed to use his influence to promote good order and to
avoid any conflicts between or with the settlers. Believing that the introduction and sale
of liquors where no legal restraints or regulations existed would endanger the public peace,
and in view of the fact that such liquors must first be introduced into the Indian reservations
before reaching the white settlements, I further directed the general commanding to enforce
the laws relating to the introduction of ardent spirits into the Indian country.

The presence of the troops has given a sense of security to the well-disposed citizens and
has tended to restrain the lawless. In one instance the officer in immediate command of the
troops went further than I deemed justifiable in supporting the de facto municipal government
of Guthrie, and he was so informed, and directed to limit the interference of the military
to the support of the marshals on the lines indicated in the original order. I very urgently
recommend that Congress at once provide a Territorial government for these people. Serious
questions, which may at any time lead to violent outbreaks, are awaiting the institution of
courts for their peaceful adjustment. The American genius for self-government has been well
illustrated in Oklahoma; but it is neither safe nor wise to leave these people longer to the
expedients which have temporarily served them.

Provision should be made for the acquisition of title to town lots in the towns now established
in Alaska, for locating town sites, and for the establishment of municipal governments. Only
the mining laws have been extended to that Territory, and no other form of title to lands can
now be obtained. The general land laws were framed with reference to the disposition of agricultural
lands, and it is doubtful if their operation in Alaska would be beneficial.

We have fortunately not extended to Alaska the mistaken policy of establishing reservations
for the Indian tribes, and can deal with them from the beginning as individuals with, I am
sure, better results; but any disposition of the public lands and any regulations relating
to timber and to the fisheries should have a kindly regard to their interests. Having no power
to levy taxes, the people of Alaska are wholly dependent upon the General Government, to whose
revenues the seal fisheries make a large annual contribution. An appropriation for education
should neither be overlooked nor stinted.

The smallness of the population and the great distances between the settlements offer serious
obstacles to the establishment of the usual Territorial form of government. Perhaps the organization
of several sub-districts with a small municipal council of limited powers for each would be
safe and useful.

Attention is called in this connection to the suggestions of the Secretary of the Treasury
relating to the establishment of another port of entry in Alaska and of other needed customs
facilities and regulations.

In the administration of the land laws the policy of facilitating in every proper way the adjustment
of the honest claims of individual settlers upon the public lands has been pursued. The number
of pending cases had during the preceding Administration been greatly increased under the operation
of orders for a time suspending final action in a large part of the cases originating in the
West and Northwest, and by the subsequent use of unusual methods of examination. Only those
who are familiar with the conditions under which our agricultural lands have been settled can
appreciate the serious and often fatal consequences to the settler of a policy that puts his
title under suspicion or delays the issuance of his patent. While care is taken to prevent
and to expose fraud, it should not be imputed without reason.

The manifest purpose of the homestead and preemption laws was to promote the settlement of
the public domain by persons having a bona fide intent to make a home upon the selected lands.
Where this intent is well established and the requirements of the law have been substantially
complied with, the claimant is entitled to a prompt and friendly consideration of his case;
but where there is reason to believe that the claimant is the mere agent of another who is
seeking to evade a law intended to promote small holdings and to secure by fraudulent methods
large tracts of timber and other lands, both principal and agent should not only be thwarted
in their fraudulent purpose, but should be made to feel the full penalties of our criminal
statutes. The laws should be so administered as not to confound these two classes and to visit
penalties only upon the latter.

The unsettled state of the titles to large bodies of lands in the Territories of New Mexico
and Arizona has greatly retarded the development of those Territories. Provision should be
made by law for the prompt trial and final adjustment before a judicial tribunal or commission
of all claims based upon Mexican grants. It is not just to an intelligent and enterprising
people that their peace should be disturbed and their prosperity retarded by these old contentions.
I express the hope that differences of opinion as to methods may yield to the urgency of the case.

The law now provides a pension for every soldier and sailor who was mustered into the service
of the United States during the Civil War and is now suffering from wounds or disease having
an origin in the service and in the line of duty. Two of the three necessary facts, viz, muster
and disability, are usually susceptible of easy proof; but the third, origin in the service,
is often difficult and in many deserving cases impossible to establish. That very many of those
who endured the hardships of our most bloody and arduous campaigns are now disabled from diseases
that had a real but not traceable origin in the service I do not doubt. Besides these there
is another class composed of men many of whom served an enlistment of three full years and
of reenlisted veterans who added a fourth year of service, who escaped the casualties of battle
and the assaults of disease, who were always ready for any detail, who were in every battle
line of their command, and were mustered out in sound health, and have since the close of the
war, while fighting with the same indomitable and independent spirit the contests of civil
life, been overcome by disease or casualty.

I am not unaware that the pension roll already involves a very large annual expenditure; neither
am I deterred by that fact from recommending that Congress grant a pension to such honorably
discharged soldiers and sailors of the Civil War as, having rendered substantial service during
the war, are now dependent upon their own labor for a maintenance and by disease or casualty
are incapacitated from earning it. Many of the men who would be included in this form of relief
are now dependent upon public aid, and it does not, in my judgment, consist with the national
honor that they shall continue to subsist upon the local relief given indiscriminately to paupers
instead of upon the special and generous provision of the nation they served so gallantly and
unselfishly. Our people will, I am sure, very generally approve such legislation. And I am
equally sure that the survivors of the Union Army and Navy will feel a grateful sense of relief
when this worthy and suffering class of their comrades is fairly cared for.

There are some manifest inequalities in the existing law that should be remedied. To some of
these the Secretary of the Interior has called attention.

It is gratifying to be able to state that by the adoption of new and better methods in the
War Department the calls of the Pension Office for information as to the military and hospital
records of pension claimants are now promptly answered and the injurious and vexatious delays
that have heretofore occurred are entirely avoided. This will greatly facilitate the adjustment
of all pending claims.

The advent of four new States--South Dakota, North Dakota, Montana, and Washington--into the
Union under the Constitution in the same month, and the admission of their duly chosen representatives
to our National Congress at the same session, is an event as unexampled as it is interesting.

The certification of the votes cast and of the constitutions adopted in each of the States
was filed with me, as required by the eighth section of the act of February 22, 1889, by the
governors of said Territories, respectively. Having after a careful examination found that
the several constitutions and governments were republican in form and not repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, that all the provisions of the act of Congress had been
complied with, and that a majority of the votes cast in each of said proposed States was in
favor of the adoption of the constitution submitted therein, I did so declare by a separate
proclamation as to each--as to North Dakota and South Dakota on Saturday, November 2; as to
Montana on Friday, November 8, and as to Washington on Monday, November 11.

Each of these States has within it resources the development of which will employ the energies
of and yield a comfortable subsistence to a great population. The smallest of these new States,
Washington, stands twelfth, and the largest, Montana, third, among the forty-two in area. The
people of these States are already well-trained, intelligent, and patriotic American citizens,
having common interests and sympathies with those of the older States and a common purpose
to defend the integrity and uphold the honor of the nation.

The attention of the Interstate Commerce Commission has been called to the urgent need of Congressional
legislation for the better protection of the lives and limbs of those engaged in operating
the great interstate freight lines of the country, and especially of the yardmen and brakemen.
A petition signed by nearly 10,000 railway brakemen was presented to the Commission asking
that steps might be taken to bring about the use of automatic brakes and couplers on freight cars.

At a meeting of State railroad commissioners and their accredited representatives held at Washington
in March last upon the invitation of the Interstate Commerce Commission a resolution was unanimously
adopted urging the Commission "to consider what can be done to prevent the loss of life and
limb in coupling and uncoupling freight cars and in handling the brakes of such cars." During
the year ending June 30, 1888, over 2,000 railroad employees were killed in service and more
than 20,000 injured. It is competent, I think, for Congress to require uniformity in the construction
of cars used in interstate commerce and the use of improved safety appliances upon such trains.
Time will be necessary to make the needed changes, but an earnest and intelligent beginning
should be made at once. It is a reproach to our civilization that any class of American workmen
should in the pursuit of a necessary and useful vocation be subjected to a peril of life and
limb as great as that of a soldier in time of war.

The creation of an Executive Department to be known as the Department of Agriculture by the
act of February 9 last was a wise and timely response to a request which had long been respectfully
urged by the farmers of the country; but much remains to be done to perfect the organization
of the Department so that it may fairly realize the expectations which its creation excited.
In this connection attention is called to the suggestions contained in the report of the Secretary,
which is herewith submitted. The need of a law officer for the Department such as is provided
for the other Executive Departments is manifest. The failure of the last Congress to make the
usual provision for the publication of the annual report should be promptly remedied. The public
interest in the report and its value to the farming community, I am sure, will not be diminished
under the new organization of the Department.

I recommend that the weather service be separated from the War Department and established as
a bureau in the Department of Agriculture. This will involve an entire reorganization both
of the Weather Bureau and of the Signal Corps, making of the first a purely civil organization
and of the other a purely military staff corps. The report of the Chief Signal Officer shows
that the work of the corps on its military side has been deteriorating.

The interests of the people of the District of Columbia should not be lost sight of in the
pressure for consideration of measures affecting the whole country. Having no legislature of
its own, either municipal or general, its people must look to Congress for the regulation of
all those concerns that in the States are the subject of local control. Our whole people have
an interest that the national capital should be made attractive and beautiful, and, above all,
that its repute for social order should be well maintained. The laws regulating the sale of
intoxicating drinks in the District should be revised with a view to bringing the traffic under
stringent limitations and control.

In execution of the power conferred upon me by the act making appropriations for the expenses
of the District of Columbia for the year ending June 30, 1890, I did on the 17th day of August
last appoint Rudolph Hering, of New York, Samuel M. Gray, of Rhode Island, and Frederick P.
Stearns, of Massachusetts, three eminent sanitary engineers, to examine and report upon the
system of sewerage existing in the District of Columbia. Their report, which is not yet completed,
will be in due course submitted to Congress.

The report of the Commissioners of the District is herewith transmitted, and the attention
of Congress is called to the suggestions contained therein.

The proposition to observe the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America by the
opening of a world's fair or exposition in some one of our great cities will be presented for
the consideration of Congress. The value and interest of such an exposition may well claim
the promotion of the General Government.

On the 4th of March last the Civil Service Commission had but a single member. The vacancies
were filled on the 7th day of May, and since then the Commissioners have been industriously,
though with an inadequate force, engaged in executing the law. They were assured by me that
a cordial support would be given them in the faithful and impartial enforcement of the statute
and of the rules and regulations adopted in aid of it.

Heretofore the book of eligibles has been closed to everyone, except as certifications were
made upon the requisition of the appointing officers. This secrecy was the source of much suspicion
and of many charges of favoritism in the administration of the law. What is secret is always
suspected; what is open can be judged. The Commission, with the full approval of all its members,
has now opened the list of eligibles to the public. The eligible lists for the classified post-offices
and custom-houses are now publicly posted in the respective offices, as are also the certifications
for appointments. The purpose of the civil-service law was absolutely to exclude any other
consideration in connection with appointments under it than that of merit as tested by the
examinations. The business proceeds upon the theory that both the examining boards and the
appointing officers are absolutely ignorant as to the political views and associations of all
persons on the civil-service lists. It is not too much to say, however, that some recent Congressional
investigations have somewhat shaken public confidence in the impartiality of the selections
for appointment.

The reform of the civil service will make no safe or satisfactory advance until the present
law and its equal administration are well established in the confidence of the people. It will
be my pleasure, as it is my duty, to see that the law is executed with firmness and impartiality.
If some of its provisions have been fraudulently evaded by appointing officers, our resentment
should not suggest the repeal of the law, but reform in its administration. We should have
one view of the matter, and hold it with a sincerity that is not affected by the consideration
that the party to which we belong is for the time in power.

My predecessor, on the 4th day of January, 1889, by an Executive order to take effect March
15, brought the Railway Mail Service under the operation of the civil-service law. Provision
was made that the order should take effect sooner in any State where an eligible list was sooner
obtained. On the 11th day of March Mr. Lyman, then the only member of the Commission, reported
to me in writing that it would not be possible to have the list of eligibles ready before May
1, and requested that the taking effect of the order be postponed until that time, which was
done, subject to the same provision contained in the original order as to States in which an
eligible list was sooner obtained.

As a result of the revision of the rules, of the new classification, and of the inclusion of
the Railway Mail Service, the work of the Commission has been greatly increased, and the present
clerical force is found to be inadequate. I recommend that the additional clerks asked by the
Commission be appropriated for.

The duty of appointment is devolved by the Constitution or by the law, and the appointing officers
are properly held to a high responsibility in its exercise. The growth of the country and the
consequent increase of the civil list have magnified this function of the Executive disproportionally.
It can not be denied, however, that the labor connected with this necessary work is increased,
often to the point of actual distress, by the sudden and excessive demands that are made upon
an incoming Administration for removals and appointments. But, on the other hand, it is not
true that incumbency is a conclusive argument for continuance in office. Impartiality, moderation,
fidelity to public duty, and a good attainment in the discharge of it must be added before
the argument is complete. When those holding administrative offices so conduct themselves as
to convince just political opponents that no party consideration or bias affects in any way
the discharge of their public duties, we can more easily stay the demand for removals.

I am satisfied that both in and out of the classified service great benefit would accrue from
the adoption of some system by which the officer would receive the distinction and benefit
that in all private employments comes from exceptional faithfulness and efficiency in the performance
of duty.

I have suggested to the heads of the Executive Departments that they consider whether a record
might not be kept in each bureau of all those elements that are covered by the terms "faithfulness"
and "efficiency," and a rating made showing the relative merits of the clerks of each class,
this rating to be regarded as a test of merit in making promotions.

I have also suggested to the Postmaster-General that he adopt some plan by which he can, upon
the basis of the reports to the Department and of frequent inspections, indicate the relative
merit of postmasters of each class. They will be appropriately indicated in the Official Register
and in the report of the Department. That a great stimulus would thus be given to the whole
service I do not doubt, and such a record would be the best defense against inconsiderate removals
from office.

The interest of the General Government in the education of the people found an early expression,
not only in the thoughtful and sometimes warning utterances of our ablest statesmen, but in
liberal appropriations from the common resources for the support of education in the new States.
No one will deny that it is of the gravest national concern that those who hold the ultimate
control of all public affairs should have the necessary intelligence wisely to direct and determine
them. National aid to education has heretofore taken the form of land grants, and in that form
the constitutional power of Congress to promote the education of the people is not seriously
questioned. I do not think it can be successfully questioned when the form is changed to that
of a direct grant of money from the public Treasury.

Such aid should be, as it always has been, suggested by some exceptional conditions. The sudden
emancipation of the slaves of the South, the bestowal of the suffrage which soon followed,
and the impairment of the ability of the States where these new citizens were chiefly found
to adequately provide educational facilities presented not only exceptional but unexampled
conditions. That the situation has been much ameliorated there is no doubt. The ability and
interest of the States have happily increased.

But a great work remains to be done, and I think the General Government should lend its aid.
As the suggestion of a national grant in aid of education grows chiefly out of the condition
and needs of the emancipated slave and his descendants, the relief should as far as possible,
while necessarily proceeding upon some general lines, be applied to the need that suggested
it. It is essential, if much good is to be accomplished, that the sympathy and active interest
of the people of the States should be enlisted, and that the methods adopted should be such
as to stimulate and not to supplant local taxation for school purposes.

As one Congress can not bind a succeeding one in such a case and as the effort must in some
degree be experimental, I recommend that any appropriation made for this purpose be so limited
in annual amount and as to the time over which it is to extend as will on the one hand give
the local school authorities opportunity to make the best use of the first year's allowance,
and on the other deliver them from the temptation to unduly postpone the assumption of the
whole burden themselves.

The colored people did not intrude themselves upon us. They were brought here in chains and
held in the communities where they are now chiefly found by a cruel slave code. Happily for
both races, they are now free. They have from a standpoint of ignorance and poverty--which
was our shame, not theirs--made remarkable advances in education and in the acquisition of
property. They have as a people shown themselves to be friendly and faithful toward the white
race under temptations of tremendous strength. They have their representatives in the national
cemeteries, where a grateful Government has gathered the ashes of those who died in its defense.
They have furnished to our Regular Army regiments that have won high praise from their commanding
officers for courage and soldierly qualities and for fidelity to the enlistment oath. In civil
life they are now the toilers of their communities, making their full contribution to the widening
streams of prosperity which these communities are receiving. Their sudden withdrawal would
stop production and bring disorder into the household as well as the shop. Generally they do
not desire to quit their homes, and their employers resent the interference of the emigration
agents who seek to stimulate such a desire.

But notwithstanding all this, in many parts of our country where the colored population is
large the people of that race are by various devices deprived of any effective exercise of
their political rights and of many of their civil rights. The wrong does not expend itself
upon those whose votes are suppressed. Every constituency in the Union is wronged.

It has been the hope of every patriot that a sense of justice and of respect for the law would
work a gradual cure of these flagrant evils. Surely no one supposes that the present can be
accepted as a permanent condition. If it is said that these communities must work out this
problem for themselves, we have a right to ask whether they are at work upon it. Do they suggest
any solution? When and under what conditions is the black man to have a free ballot? When is
he in fact to have those full civil rights which have so long been his in law? When is that
equality of influence which our form of government was intended to secure to the electors to
be restored? This generation should courageously face these grave questions, and not leave
them as a heritage of woe to the next. The consultation should proceed with candor, calmness,
and great patience, upon the lines of justice and humanity, not of prejudice and cruelty. No
question in our country can be at rest except upon the firm base of justice and of the law.

