In literature, and especially in criticism, Jeffrey's characteristics were still more decidedly
and unquestionably French. He came into the world almost too soon to feel the German impulse,
even if he had been disposed to feel it. But, as a matter of fact, he was not at all disposed.
The faults of taste of the German Romantic School, its alternate homeliness and extravagance,
its abuse of the supernatural, its undoubted offences against order and proportion, scandalised
him only a little less than they would have scandalised Voltaire and did scandalise the later
Voltairians. Jeffrey was perfectly prepared to be Romantic up to a certain point,--the point
which he had himself reached in his early course of independent reading and criticism. He was
even a little inclined to sympathise with the reverend Mr. Bowles on the great question whether
Pope was a poet; and, as I have said, he uses, about the older English literature, phrases
which might almost satisfy a fanatic of the school of Hazlitt or of Lamb. He is, if anything,
rather too severe on French as compared with English drama. Yet, when he comes to his own contemporaries,
and sometimes even in reference to earlier writers, we find him slipping into those purely
arbitrary severities of condemnation, those capricious stigmatisings of this as improper, and
that as vulgar, and the other as unbecoming, which are the characteristics of the pseudo-correct
and pseudo-classical school of criticism. He was a great admirer of Cowper, and yet he is shocked
by Cowper's use, in his translation of Homer, of the phrases, "to entreat Achilles to a calm"
(evidently he had forgotten Shakespeare's "pursue him and entreat him to a peace"), "this wrangler
here," "like a fellow of no worth." He was certainly not likely to be unjust to Charles James
Fox. So he is unhappy, rather than contemptuous, over such excellent phrases as "swearing away
the lives," "crying injustice," "fond of ill-treating." These appear to Mr. Aristarchus Jeffrey
too "homely and familiar," too "low and vapid"; while a harmless and rather agreeable Shakespearian
parallel of Fox's seems to him downright impropriety. The fun of the thing is that the passage
turns on the well-known misuse of "flat burglary"; and if Jeffrey had had a little more sense
of humour (his deficiency in which, for all his keen wit, is another Gallic note in him), he
must have seen that the words were ludicrously applicable to his own condemnation and his own
frame of mind. These settings-up of a wholly arbitrary canon of mere taste, these excommunicatings
of such and such a thing as "low" and "improper," without assigned or assignable reason, are
eminently Gallic. They may be found not merely in the older school before 1830, but in almost
all French critics up to the present day: there is perhaps not one, with the single exception
of Sainte-Beuve, who is habitually free from them. The critic may be quite unable to say why
tarte à la crême is such a shocking expression, or even to produce any important authority
for the shockingness of it. But he is quite certain that it is shocking. Jeffrey is but too
much given to protesting against tarte à la crême; and the reasons for his error are almost
exactly the same as in the case of the usual Frenchman; that is to say, a very just and wholesome
preference for order, proportion, literary orthodoxy, freedom from will-worship and eccentric
divagations, unfortunately distorted by a certain absence of catholicity, by a tendency to
regard novelty as bad, merely because it is novelty, and by a curious reluctance, as Lamb has
it of another great man of the same generation, to go shares with any newcomer in literary
commerce.

But when these reservations have been made, when his standpoint has been clearly discovered
and marked out, and when some little tricks, such as the affectation of delivering judgments
without appeal, which is still kept up by a few, though very few, reviewers, have been further
allowed for, Jeffrey is a most admirable essayist and critic. As an essayist, a writer of causeries,
I do not think he has been surpassed among Englishmen in the art of interweaving quotation,
abstract, and comment. The best proof of his felicity in this respect is that in almost all
the books which he has reviewed, (and he has reviewed many of the most interesting books in
literature) the passages and traits, the anecdotes and phrases, which have made most mark in
the general memory, and which are often remembered with very indistinct consciousness of their
origin, are to be found in his reviews. Sometimes the very perfection of his skill in this
respect makes it rather difficult to know where he is abstracting or paraphrasing, and where
he is speaking outright and for himself; but that is a very small fault. Yet his merits as
an essayist, though considerable, are not to be compared, even to the extent to which Hazlitt's
are to be compared, with his merits as a critic, and especially as a literary critic. It would
be interesting to criticise his political criticism; but it is always best to keep politics
out where it can be managed. Besides, Jeffrey as a political critic is a subject of almost
exclusively historical interest, while as a literary critic he is important at this very day,
and perhaps more important than he was in his own. For the spirit of merely æsthetic criticism,
which was in his day only in its infancy, has long been full grown and rampant; so that, good
work as it has done in its time, it decidedly needs chastening by an admixture of the dogmatic
criticism, which at least tries to keep its impressions together and in order, and to connect
them into some coherent doctrine and creed.

Of this dogmatic criticism Jeffrey, with all his shortcomings, is perhaps the very best example
that we have in English. He had addressed himself more directly and theoretically to literary
criticism than Lockhart. Prejudiced as he often was, he was not affected by the wild gusts
of personal and political passion which frequently blew Hazlitt a thousand miles off the course
of true criticism. He keeps his eye on the object, which De Quincey seldom does. He is not
affected by that desire to preach on certain pet subjects which affects the admirable critical
faculty of Carlyle. He never blusters and splashes at random like Wilson. And he never indulges
in the mannered and rather superfluous graces which marred, to some tastes, the work of his
successor in critical authority, if there has been any such, the author of Essays in Criticism.

Let us, as we just now looked through Jeffrey's work to pick out the less favourable characteristics
which distinguish his position, look through it again to see those qualities which he shares,
but in greater measure than most, with all good critics. The literary essay which stands first
in his collected works is on Madame de Staël. Now that good lady, of whom some judges in these
days do not think very much, was a kind of goddess on earth in literature, however much she
might bore them in life, to the English Whig party in general; while Jeffrey's French tastes
must have made her, or at least her books, specially attractive to him. Accordingly he has
written a great deal about her, no less than three essays appearing in the collected works.
Writing at least partly in her lifetime and under the influences just glanced at, he is of
course profuse in compliments. But it is very amusing and highly instructive to observe how,
in the intervals of these compliments, he contrives to take the good Corinne to pieces, to
smash up her ingenious Perfectibilism, and to put in order her rather rash literary judgments.
It is in connection also with her, that he gives one of the best of not a few general sketches
of the history of literature which his work contains. Of course there are here, as always,
isolated expressions as to which, however much we admit that Jeffrey was a clever man, we cannot
agree with Jeffrey. He thinks Aristophanes "coarse" and "vulgar" just as a living pundit thinks
him "base," while (though nobody of course can deny the coarseness) Aristophanes and vulgarity
are certainly many miles asunder. We may protest against the chronological, even more than
against the critical, blunder which couples Cowley and Donne, putting Donne, moreover, who
wrote long before Cowley was born, and differs from him in genius almost as the author of the
Iliad does from the author of the Henriade, second. But hardly anything in English criticism
is better than Jeffrey's discussion of the general French imputation of "want of taste and
politeness" to English and German writers, especially English. It is a very general, and a
very mistaken notion that the Romantic movement in France has done away with this imputation
to a great extent. On the contrary, though it has long been a kind of fashion in France to
admire Shakespeare, and though since the labours of MM. Taine and Montégut, the study of English
literature generally has grown and flourished, it is, I believe, the very rarest thing to find
a Frenchman who, in his heart of hearts, does not cling to the old "pearls in the dung-heap"
idea, not merely in reference to Shakespeare, but to English writers, and especially English
humorists, generally. Nothing can be more admirable than Jeffrey's comments on this matter.
They are especially admirable because they are not made from the point of view of a Romantique
à tous crins; because, as has been already pointed out, he himself is largely penetrated by
the very preference for order and proportion which is at the bottom of the French mistake;
and because he is, therefore, arguing in a tongue understanded of those whom he censures. Another
essay which may be read with especial advantage is that on Scott's edition of Swift. Here,
again, there was a kind of test subject, and perhaps Jeffrey does not come quite scatheless
out of the trial: to me, at any rate, his account of Swift's political and moral conduct and
character seems both uncritical and unfair. But here, too, the value of his literary criticism
shows itself. He might very easily have been tempted to extend his injustice from the writer
to the writings, especially since, as has been elsewhere shown, he was by no means a fanatical
admirer of the Augustan age, and thought the serious style of Addison and Swift tame and poor.
It is possible of course, here also, to find things that seem to be errors, both in the general
sketch which Jeffrey, according to his custom, prefixes, and in the particular remarks on Swift
himself. For instance, to deny fancy to the author of the Tale of a Tub, of Gulliver, and of
the Polite Conversation, is very odd indeed. But there are few instances of a greater triumph
of sound literary judgment over political and personal prejudice than Jeffrey's description,
not merely of the great works just mentioned (it is curious, and illustrates his defective
appreciation of humour, that he likes the greatest least, and is positively unjust to the Tale
of a Tub), but also of those wonderful pamphlets, articles, lampoons, skits (libels if any
one likes), which proved too strong for the generalship of Marlborough and the administrative
talents of Godolphin; and which are perhaps the only literary works that ever really changed,
for a not inconsiderable period, the government of England. "Considered," he says, "with a
view to the purposes for which they were intended, they have probably never been equalled in
any period of the world." They certainly have not; but to find a Whig, and a Whig writing in
the very moment of Tory triumph after Waterloo, ready to admit the fact, is not a trivial thing.
Another excellent example of Jeffrey's strength, by no means unmixed with examples of his weakness,
is to be found in his essays on Cowper. I have already given some of the weakness: the strength
is to be found in his general description of Cowper's revolt, thought so daring at the time,
now so apparently moderate, against poetic diction. These instances are to be found under miscellaneous
sections, biographical, historical, and so forth; but the reader will naturally turn to the
considerable divisions headed Poetry and Fiction. Here are the chief rocks of offence already
indicated, and here also are many excellent things which deserve reading. Here is the remarkable
essay, quoted above, on Campbell's Specimens. Here is the criticism of Weber's edition of Ford,
and another of those critical surveys of the course of English literature which Jeffrey was
so fond of doing, and which he did so well, together with some remarks on the magnificently
spendthrift style of our Elizabethan dramatists which would deserve almost the first place
in an anthology of his critical beauties. The paper on Hazlitt's Characters of Shakespeare
(Hazlitt was an Edinburgh reviewer, and his biographer, not Jeffrey's, has chronicled a remarkable
piece of generosity on Jeffrey's part towards his wayward contributor) is a little defaced
by a patronising spirit, not, indeed, of that memorably mistaken kind which induced the famous
and unlucky sentence to Macvey Napier about Carlyle, but something in the spirit of the schoolmaster
who observes, "See this clever boy of mine, and only think how much better I could do it myself."
Yet it contains some admirable passages on Shakespeare, if not on Hazlitt; and it would be
impossible to deny that its hinted condemnation of Hazlitt's "desultory and capricious acuteness"
is just enough. On the other hand, how significant is it of Jeffrey's own limitations that
he should protest against Hazlitt's sympathy with such "conceits and puerilities" as the immortal
and unmatchable

    Take him and cut him out in little stars,

with the rest of the passage. But there you have the French spirit. I do not believe that there
ever was a Frenchman since the seventeenth century (unless perchance it was Gérard de Nerval,
and he was not quite sane), who could put his hand on his heart and deny that the little stars
seemed to him puerile and conceited.

Jeffrey's dealings with Byron (I do not now speak of the article on Hours of Idleness, which
was simply a just rebuke of really puerile and conceited rubbish) are not, to me, very satisfactory.
The critic seems, in the rather numerous articles which he has devoted to the "noble Poet,"
as they used to call him, to have felt his genius unduly rebuked by that of his subject. He
spends a great deal, and surely an unnecessarily great deal, of time in solemnly, and no doubt
quite sincerely, rebuking Byron's morality; and in doing so he is sometimes almost absurd.
He calls him "not more obscene perhaps than Dryden or Prior," which is simply ludicrous, because
it is very rare that this particular word can be applied to Byron at all, while even his staunchest
champion must admit that it applies to glorious John and to dear Mat Prior. He helps, unconsciously
no doubt, to spread the very contagion which he denounces, by talking about Byron's demoniacal
power, going so far as actually to contrast Manfred with Marlowe to the advantage of the former.
And he is so completely overcome by what he calls the "dreadful tone of sincerity" of this
"puissant spirit," that he never seems to have had leisure or courage to apply the critical
tests and solvents of which few men have had a greater command. Had he done so, it is impossible
not to believe that, whether he did or did not pronounce Byron's sentiment to be as theatrical,
as vulgar, and as false as it seems to some later critics, he would at any rate have substituted
for his edifying but rather irrelevant moral denunciations some exposure of those gross faults
in style and metre, in phrase and form, which now disgust us.

There are many essays remaining on which I should like to comment if there were room enough.
But I have only space for a few more general remarks on his general characteristics, and especially
those which, as Sainte-Beuve said to the altered Jeffrey of our altered days, are "important
to us." Let me repeat then that the peculiar value of Jeffrey is not, as is that of Coleridge,
of Hazlitt, or of Lamb, in very subtle, very profound, or very original views of his subjects.
He is neither a critical Columbus nor a critical Socrates; he neither opens up undiscovered
countries, nor provokes and stimulates to the discovery of them. His strength lies in the combination
of a fairly wide range of sympathy with an extraordinary shrewdness and good sense in applying
that sympathy. Tested for range alone, or for subtlety alone, he will frequently be found wanting;
but he almost invariably catches up those who have thus outstripped him, when the subject of
the trial is shifted to soundness of estimate, intelligent connection of view, and absence
of eccentricity. And it must be again and again repeated that Jeffrey is by no means justly
chargeable with the Dryasdust failings so often attributed to academic criticism. They said
that on the actual Bench he worried counsel a little too much, but that his decisions were
almost invariably sound. Not quite so much perhaps can be said for his other exercise of the
judicial function. But however much he may sometimes seem to carp and complain, however much
we may sometimes wish for a little more equity and a little less law, it is astonishing how
weighty Jeffrey's critical judgments are after three quarters of a century which has seen so
many seeming heavy things grow light. There may be much that he does not see; there may be
some things which he is physically unable to see; but what he does see, he sees with a clearness,
and co-ordinates in its bearings on other things seen with a precision, which are hardly to
be matched among the fluctuating and diverse race of critics.

FOOTNOTES:

[10] To prevent mistakes it may be as well to say that Jeffrey's Contributions to the Edinburgh
Review appeared first in four volumes, then in three, then in one.

[11] In the following remarks, reference is confined to the Contributions to the Edinburgh
Review, 1 vol. London, 1853. This is not merely a matter of convenience; the selection having
been made with very great care by Jeffrey himself at a time when his faculties were in perfect
order, and including full specimens of every kind of his work.

V

HAZLITT

The following paper was in great part composed, when I came across some sentences on Hazlitt,
written indeed before I was born, but practically unpublished until the other day. In a review
of the late Mr. Horne's New Spirit of the Age, contributed to the Morning Chronicle in 1845
and but recently included in his collected works, Thackeray writes thus of the author of the
book whose title Horne had rather rashly borrowed:

    The author of the Spirit of the Age was one of the keenest and
    brightest critics that ever lived. With partialities and
    prejudices innumerable, he had a wit so keen, a sensibility so
    exquisite, an appreciation of humour, or pathos, or even of the
    greatest art, so lively, quick, and cultivated, that it was
    always good to know what were the impressions made by books or
    men or pictures on such a mind; and that, as there were not
    probably a dozen men in England with powers so varied, all the
    rest of the world might be rejoiced to listen to the opinions of
    this accomplished critic. He was of so different a caste to the
    people who gave authority in his day--the pompous big-wigs and
    schoolmen, who never could pardon him his familiarity of manner
    so unlike their own--his popular--too popular habits--and
    sympathies so much beneath their dignity; his loose, disorderly
    education gathered round those bookstalls or picture galleries
    where he laboured a penniless student, in lonely journeys over
    Europe tramped on foot (and not made, after the fashion of the
    regular critics of the day, by the side of a young nobleman in a
    postchaise), in every school of knowledge from St. Peter's at
    Rome to St. Giles's in London. In all his modes of life and
    thought, he was so different from the established authorities,
    with their degrees and white neck-cloths, that they hooted the
    man down with all the power of their lungs, and disdained to
    hear truth that came from such a ragged philosopher.

Some exceptions, no doubt, must be taken to this enthusiastic, and in the main just, verdict.
Hazlitt himself denied himself wit, yet if this was mock humility, I am inclined to think that
he spoke truth unwittingly. His appreciation of humour was fitful and anything but impartial,
while, biographically speaking, the hardships of his apprenticeship are very considerably exaggerated.
It was not, for instance, in a penniless or pedestrian manner that he visited St. Peter's at
Rome; but journeying with comforts of wine, vetturini, and partridges, which his second wife's
income paid for. But this does not matter much, and, on the whole, the estimate is as just
as it is generous. Perhaps something of its inspiration may be set down to fellow-feeling,
both in politics and in the unsuccessful cultivation of the arts of design. But as high an
estimate of Hazlitt is quite compatible with the strongest political dissent from his opinions,
and with a total freedom from the charge of wearing the willow for painting.

