Note: Images of the original pages are available through the Making of
      America Collection of the University of Michigan Library. See
      http://www.hti.umich.edu/m/moagrp/

WHAT IS FREE TRADE?

An Adaptation of Frederick Bastiat's "Sophismes Économiques"

   CHAPTER I.
   Plenty and Scarcity

   CHAPTER II.
   Obstacles to Wealth and Causes of Wealth

   CHAPTER III.
   Effort--Result

   CHAPTER IV.
   Equalizing of the Facilities of Production

   CHAPTER V.
   Our Productions are Overloaded with Internal Taxes

   CHAPTER VI.
   Balance of Trade

   CHAPTER VII.
   A Petition

   CHAPTER VIII.
   Discriminating Duties

   CHAPTER IX.
   A Wonderful Discovery

   CHAPTER X.
   Reciprocity

   CHAPTER XI.
   Absolute Prices

   CHAPTER XII.
   Does Protection raise the Rate of Wages?

   CHAPTER XIII.
   Theory and Practice

   CHAPTER XIV.
   Conflict of Principles

   CHAPTER XV.
   Reciprocity Again

   CHAPTER XVI.
   Obstructed Rivers plead for the Prohibitionists

   CHAPTER XVII.
   A Negative Railroad

   CHAPTER XVIII.
   There are no Absolute Principles

   CHAPTER XIX.
   National Independence

   CHAPTER XX.
   Human Labor--National Labor

   CHAPTER XXI.
   Raw Material

   CHAPTER XXII.
   Metaphors

   CHAPTER XXIII.
   Conclusion

INTRODUCTION.

Years ago I could not rid my mind of the notion that Free Trade meant some cunning policy of
British statesmen designed to subject the world to British interests. Coming across Bastiat's
inimitable Sophismes Economiques I learnt to my surprise that there were Frenchmen also who
advocated Free Trade, and deplored the mischiefs of the Protective Policy. This made me examine
the subject, and think a good deal upon it; and the result of this thought was the unalterable
conviction I now hold--a conviction that harmonizes with every noble belief that our race entertains;
with Civil and Religious Freedom for All, regardless of race or color; with the Harmony of
God's works; with Peace and Goodwill to all Mankind. That conviction is this: that to make
taxation the incident of protection to special interests, and those engaged in them, is robbery
to the rest of the community, and subversive of National Morality and National Prosperity.
I believe that taxes are necessary for the support of government, I believe they must be raised
by levy, I even believe that some customs taxes may be more practicable and economical than
some internal taxes; but I am entirely opposed to making anything the object of taxation but
the revenue required by government for its economical maintenance.

I do not espouse Free Trade because it is British, as some suppose it to be. Independent of
other things, that would rather set me against it than otherwise, because generally those things
which best fit European society ill befit our society--the structure of each being so different.
Free Trade is no more British than any other kind of freedom: indeed, Great Britain has only
followed quite older examples in adopting it, as for instance the republics of Venice and Holland,
both of which countries owed their extraordinary prosperity to the fact of their having set
the example of relaxing certain absurd though time-honored restrictions on commerce. I espouse
Free Trade because it is just, it is unselfish, and it is profitable.

For these reasons have I, a Worker, deeply interested in the welfare of the fellow-workers
who are my countrymen, lent to Truth and Justice what little aid I could, by adapting Bastiat's
keen and cogent Essay to the wants of readers on this side of the Atlantic.

EMILE WALTER, the Worker.

NEW YORK, 1866.

WHAT IS FREE TRADE?

CHAPTER I.

PLENTY AND SCARCITY.

Which is better for man and for society--abundance or scarcity?

What! Can such a question be asked? Has it ever been pretended, is it possible to maintain,
that scarcity is better than plenty?

Yes: not only has it been maintained, but it is still maintained. Congress says so; many of
the newspapers (now happily diminishing in number) say so; a large portion of the public say
so; indeed, the city theory is by far the more popular one of the two.

Has not Congress passed laws which prohibit the importation of foreign productions by the maintenance
of excessive duties? Does not the Tribune maintain that it is advantageous to limit the supply
of iron manufactures and cotton fabrics, by restraining any one from bringing them to market,
but the manufacturers in New England and Pennsylvania? Do we not hear it complained every day:
Our importations are too large; We are buying too much from abroad? Is there not an Association
of Ladies, who, though they have not kept their promise, still, promised each other not to
wear any clothing which was manufactured in other countries? Therefore, statesmen, editors,
and the public generally, believe that scarcity is better than abundance.

But why is this; why should men be so blind as to maintain that scarcity is better than plenty?

Because they look at price, but forget quantity.

But let us see.

A man becomes rich in proportion to the remunerative nature of his labor; that is to say, in
proportion as he sells his produce at a high price. The price of his produce is high in proportion
to its scarcity. It is plain, then, that, so far as regards him at least, scarcity enriches him.

Now, what is the defect in this argument? Something tells us that it must be wrong; but where
is it wrong? Is it false? No. And yet it is wrong? Yes. But how? It is incomplete.

Which theory is right?

Can we hesitate to say? Suppose that by following out the scarcity theory, suppose that through
prohibitions and restrictions we were compelled not only to make our own iron, but to grow
our own coffee; in short, to obtain everything with difficulty and great outlay of labor. We
then take an account of stock and see what our savings are.

Afterward, to test the other theory, suppose we remove the duties on iron, the duties on coffee,
and the duties on everything else, so that we shall obtain everything with as little difficulty
and outlay of labor as possible. If we then take an account of stock, is it not certain that
we shall find more iron in the country, more coffee, more everything else?

Choose then, fellow-countrymen, between scarcity and abundance, between much and little, between
Protection and Free Trade. You now know which theory is the right one, for you know the fruits
they each bear.

But, it will be answered, if we are inundated with foreign goods and produce, our specie, our
precious product of California, our dollars, will leave the country.

Well, what of that? Man is not fed with coin. He does not dress in gold, nor warm himself with
silver. What does it matter, then, whether there be more or less specie in the country, provided
there be more bread in the cupboard, more meat in the larder, more clothes in the wardrobe,
and more fuel in the cellar?

Again, it will be objected, if we accustom ourselves to depend upon England for iron, what
shall we do in case of a war with that country?

To this I reply, we shall then be compelled to produce iron ourselves. But, again I am told,
we will not be prepared; we will have no furnaces in blast, no forges ready. True; neither
will there be any time when war shall occur that the country will not be already filled with
all the iron we shall want until we can make it here. Did the Confederates in the late war
lack for iron? Why, then, shall we manufacture our own staples and bolts because we may some
day or other have a quarrel with our ironmonger!

To sum up:

A radical antagonism exists between the vender and the buyer.

The former wishes the article offered to be scarce, and the supply to be small, so that the
price may be high.

The latter wishes it abundant and the supply to be large, so that the price may be low. They
act, if not intentionally, at least logically, upon the principle that a nation is rich in
proportion as it is in want of everything.

CHAPTER II.

OBSTACLES TO WEALTH AND CAUSES OF WEALTH.

Man is naturally in a state of entire destitution.

Between this state, and the satisfying of his wants, there exist a number of obstacles which
it is the object of labor to surmount. Remember this. This doing one kind of labor for another,
is called the division of labor.

Considering mankind as a whole, let us remember once more that it would be better for society
that these obstacles should be as weak and as few as possible.

But mark how, in viewing this simple truth from a narrow point of view, we come to believe
that obstacles, instead of being a disadvantage, are actually a source of wealth!

Here are men who are at a loss how to dispose of their petroleum. By our riches? When, therefore,
these men lament the suppression of labor in attaining a given result, they maintain the doctrine
of Sisyphism. Supposing the day's work to be worth $2.50, it is evident that the United States
could, by barter, procure a ton of iron by eight days' labor taken from the labor of the nation.

CHAPTER IV.

EQUALIZING OF THE FACILITIES OF PRODUCTION.

1. Equalizing the facilities of production is to attack the foundations of mutual exchange.

3. Even were the labor of one country crushed by the competition of more favored climates (which
is denied), protective duties cannot equalize the facilities of production. They accordingly
demand a duty of ninety-nine cents upon Portugal oranges. With the help of this duty, say they,
the conditions of production will be equalized. There is improper distribution; but no loss.

4. But freedom of trade equalizes these conditions as much as is possible.

5. Countries least favored by nature (countries not yet cleared of forests, for example) are
those which profit most by mutual exchange. The protectionists may suppose me in a paradoxical
humor, for I go further still.

The wisdom and beauty of these laws strike me with admiration and reverence. To cause this,
it is only necessary that less [time and] human labor should be required to furnish it. If
more is required, I can get another boat to furnish it, or finally go and get it myself.

CHAPTER V.

OUR PRODUCTIONS ARE OVERLOADED WITH INTERNAL TAXES--

This is but a new wording of the Sophism before noticed. "The will (said Pascal) is one of
the principal organs of belief." But belief does not the less exist because it is rooted in
the will and in the secret inspirations of egotism.

We will return to the Sophism drawn from internal taxes. This, it is evident, would exclude
it, because it could no longer be sold at less than $26; $16 for the indemnifying price, $10
for the tax; and at this price it must be driven from the market by American iron, which we
have supposed to cost $24. While the price of sale being $14, foreign iron could not obtain
a market at $16. It would therefore be desirable that the State should take another 200 millions
to relieve the poor iron manufacturers." And why?

Mr. T dispatched from New Orleans a vessel freighted for France with cotton valued at $200,000.
Such was the amount entered at the custom-house. It was sold at twenty per cent. profit on
its original value, which equalled $40,000, and the price of sale was $320,000, which the consignee
converted into merchandise, principally Parisian goods. The goods thus sold for the sum of
$422,400.

Now what conclusion do our Congressmen draw from the sums entered into the custom-house, in
this operation?

Some time after this transaction, Mr. T dispatched another vessel, again freighted with national
produce, to the amount of $200,000. But the vessel foundered in leaving the port, and Mr. T
had only further to inscribe upon his books two little items, thus worded:

"Sundries due to X, $200,000, for purchase of divers articles dispatched by vessel N."

But lest even Mr. T's books may not be deemed of sufficient weight to counterbalance the convictions
of the Horace Greeley school of prohibition, I shall proceed to furnish a table exhibiting
various classes of commercial transactions, embracing most of the classes usually effected
by importing and exporting houses, all of which may result in undoubted profits to the parties
engaged in them, and to the country at large, and yet which, as they appear in the annual Commerce
and Navigation Reports issued by the government, would be made to prove by Mr. Greeley that
the result has in each case been a loss to the country. The sums are all stated in gold:

A, represents one hundred merchants, who shipped to London beef, boots and shoes, butter, cheese,
cotton, hams and bacon, flour, Indian corn, lard, lumber, machinery, oils, pork, staves, tallow,
tobacco and cigars, worth in New York, in the aggregate, ten millions of dollars, gold, but
worth in London plus the cost of transportation, &c., eleven millions of dollars, gold, in
bond. After being sold in London, the proceeds (eleven millions) were invested in British goods,
worth eleven millions in London, but worth twelve millions in bond in New York, and plus the
cost of transportation, &c. After having these goods sold in New York, a net profit of two
millions was the result of the whole transaction, a profit both to the merchants and the country;
yet, according to the Commerce and Navigation Returns, the exports were ten millions, and the
imports eleven millions (valued at the foreign place of production as the law directs), showing,
according to Mr. Greeley's solitary point of view, a loss to the country of one million.

B, owned a gold mine in Nevada, and had no capital with which to develop it.

C, the French owner of the Nevada mine, had a million more with which to develop it. Hearing
that French cloths and gloves had a good sale in Boston, he invested his million in these goods,
sailed for Boston with them, sold them there in bond and plus exportation, for $1,100,000,
which he at once invested in machinery, labor, &c., destined for Nevada.

D, had a rich uncle in Rio Janeiro who died and left him a million. D ordered this sum to be
invested in hides and shipped to him at Boston. These hides were worth a million in Rio, but
$1,100,000 in Natick, ex duty and plus transportation.

E, in 1850, shipped to Cuba, wagons, carts, agricultural implements, pianos and billiard-tables,
worth $1,000,000 in Baltimore, but $1,100,000 in Havana, ex duty and plus transportation. These
he sold, and invested the proceeds in cigars worth $1,100,000 in Havana, but in Russia, ex
duty and plus transportation, $1,210,000. Disposing of these in turn, and investing the proceeds
in Russian iron worth $1,210,000 in Russia, but $1,331,000 in Venezuela, ex duty and plus transportation,
he shipped the iron to Venezuela, where he realized on it, investing the proceeds this time
in South American products worth in Spain $1,464,100. He sold these products in Spain, bought
olive oil with the proceeds, shipped the same to Australia, where it was worth, ex duty and
plus charges, $1,610,510, which sum he realized in gold, which he carried to New York in 1853.
On the latter transaction he makes no profit, but barely clears his charges. Nay more, for
Mr. Greeley balances his trade accounts each year by itself, and as E's outward shipment was
made in 1850 and his importation in 1853, the country, according to H.G., lost in 1853, by
over importation, $1,610,500. Yet not to be hard on H.G., and to be perfectly honest in our
accounts, we will only set down a loss to the country from his point of view of $610,510.

F, owned the 4,000 ton ship Great Republic, which cost him $160,000. Finding her too large
for profitable employment, and hearing that large vessels were in demand in England as troop
transports to the Crimea, he sent her out in ballast and sold her in Southampton for $200,000
cash. With this sum he went to Geneva, where he invested it in Swiss watches worth $200,000
in Geneva, but $210,000 in New Orleans, ex duty and plus transportation. To New Orleans he
accordingly shipped the watches, and they were sold. By these transactions he not only got
rid of his elephant, but both he and the country clearly gained $50,000. Yet according to Mr.
Greeley's single eye the country suffered to the extent of $200,000, for in the exports appeared
nothing, but among the imports $200,000 worth of foreign gewgaws, only fit to keep time with.

G, (an actual transaction) shipped by the Great Eastern on her last voyage from New York, lard
and other merchandise, worth in New York $600,000, the fact of which, in the hurry of business,
he failed to report to the Custom House, and it therefore did not appear in the exports. This
lard was carried to England, where it found no sale, and was reshipped to New York. G only
escaped being charged duty on it when it arrived, by swearing that it had been originally shipped
from here in good faith; yet it was entered as an import (free of duty), and showed, according
to Mr. Greeley's one eye, that the country was on the road to ruin $600,000 worth.

H, lived in Brownsville, Texas, where he had a lot of arms and gunpowder, worth $100,000. The
Mexicans levied a very high import duty on these articles, and they consequently bore a very
high price in Matamoras, just opposite, being worth in the market of that town no less than
$250,000. He accordingly conceived the idea of smuggling them into Mexican territory, and,
with the connivance of the Mexican officials, (what rascals these foreign custom-house officials
are, to be sure!) actually succeeded in doing so, and thus realized the very handsome profit
of $150,000 in gold. The entire proceeds he invested in Mexican indigo and cochineal, worth
in Mexico $250,000, and in Boston $275,000, in bond, plus charges. Of course, no export entry
was furnished to the customs collector at Brownsville; but Mr. Greeley fastened his one eye
on the indigo and cochineal, when it arrived in Boston, and made up his mind that the country
had lost $250,000. As for H, he has invested $100,000 in more gunpowder and arms, and starts
for Brownsville next week, to try his luck again. With the other $175,000 he has a notion of
buying out the New York Tribune, and setting it right on free trade, and other matters of the sort.

I, and his friends owned a fine fleet of merchantmen when the war broke out. The aggregate
burden of the vessels was nearly a million of tons, and they were worth $40 a ton. When the
rebel cruisers commenced their operations, there were no United States cruisers prepared to
capture them, because our best vessels were on blockade service. This being the case, insurance
on American merchantmen rose very high--so high that I and his friends were reluctantly compelled
to sell their vessels in Great Britain and elsewhere, and convert them into cash. They brought
$40,000,000, and this sum was invested in merchandise, which netted a profit of ten per cent.
to I and his friends. They thus gained $4,000,000 by these transactions. The entire proceeds,
$44,000,000, they then lent to the government with which to carry on its war of existence with
the Southern insurgents. Profitable as these transactions clearly were to I and his friends,
and to the government, Mr. Greeley, nevertheless, only sees the import of $40,000,000 worth
of foreign extravagances, and consequently wants the tariff on iron increased in order to make
water run up hill.

J, had $2,000,000 in five-twenty bonds, which cost him $1,400,000 gold. As the market price
in New York was only 70 gold, while it was 72-1/4 in London, he conceived the inhuman idea
of selling them in the latter place. The cost of sending them there, including insurance, &c.,
made them net him but 72, but at this price he gained a profit of $40,000. With his capital
now augmented to $1,440,000 he bought rags in Italy, which he sold in New York for $1,584,000,
ex duty and plus transportation, a clear profit of $184,000 from the start. No export appearing
in the Commerce and Navigation Returns, and nothing but the rags meeting his unital gaze, Mr.
Greeley at once posted his national ledger with a loss of $1,440,000, the cost of the rags
in Italy.

K, was, and is still (for these are actual transactions taken from his account books), an exchange
broker, doing business in New York. He buys notes on the banks of England, Ireland, Scotland,
France and Canada--indeed, foreign banknotes of all kinds--for which he usually pays about
ninety per cent, of their face value. By the end of last year he had invested $200,000 in these
notes brought here by travellers. He then inclosed them in letters, and sent them to their
proper destinations to be redeemed. Redeemed they were in due time, and the proceeds remitted
in gold. In this business he earned the neat profit of $22,222, and the country was that much
richer thereby. But Mr. Greeley, who only looked at the import of K's gold remittance, declared
the country $22,222 worse off than before, and dares us to "come on" with the figures.

L, and some fifty thousand other skedaddlers ran off to Canada when the war broke out, for
fear they might be drafted. Together with the colored folks who fled there, and the many travellers
who went there from time to time, they carried with them most of our silver half-dollars, quarters,
dimes, half-dimes, and three-cent pieces. These amounted to $25,000,000, which the skedaddlers,
the colored folks, and the travellers, as with returning peace they slowly straggled back into
the country, invested in Canadian knick-knacks, which they disposed of in the United States.
The incoming goods were duly entered at our frontier custom-houses, but the outgoing silver
was not. Mr. Greeley, unaware of this fact, detects an over-importation of $25,000,000, and
is waiting to be elected to Congress in order to legislate the matter right.

M, (an actual transaction) had $1,000,000 in Illinois Central Railroad bonds, for which he
desired to obtain $1,000,000 worth of iron rails to repair the road with. Not being able to
effect the transaction in the United States, he sent the bonds to Germany, where they were
sold, and the proceeds invested in English railroad iron, worth $1,000,000 in Glasgow, but
$1,100,000 in Chicago, ex duty, and plus transportation. By this transaction M, besides effecting
the desired exchange, netted a profit of $100,000. Yet, according to the Commerce and Navigation
Reports, and Mr. Greeley's one eye, as there had been no exports and $1,000,000 of imports,
the country was a sufferer by the latter sum.

N, was a body of incorporators who owned a tract of land lying in the bend of a river. Standing
in need of water power for manufacturing purposes, they resolved to cut a canal across the
bend. As this would essentially benefit the navigation of the river, the State agreed to guaranty
their bonds for a loan of money to the extent of $1,000,000. Finding no purchaser for these
bonds in the United States, they remitted them to Europe, and there sold them at par. With
the proceeds they purchased army blankets for the Boston market, on which they realized ten
per cent. net profit. These sold, the avails were invested in barrows, spades, water-wheels,
wages, &c., and in good time the canal was cut and the manufactory set a-going. Profitable
as this thing was to N, Mr. Greeley's single-barrelled telescope sees in it only a loss to
the country of $1,000,000.

O, represents the Illinois Central, Union Pacific, and other western railroads, owning grants
of land along their respective roads, to sell which to actual settlers they open agencies in
London, Havre, Antwerp, and other European cities. The emigrants who buy these lands pay for
them in Europe, and set sail for America with their title-deeds in their pockets, and their
axes on their shoulders, ready for a conquest over forest and prairie. The agents of the Illinois
Central Railroad (see report of the Company), who have sold 1,664,422 acres, say at an average
of ten dollars per acre, invested the proceeds, $16,644,220, in iron rails for the road, worth
that sum in England, but ten per cent. more in Illinois, less duty and plus transportation.
The road has thus not only netted a profit of $1,664,422 on the transaction, but sold their
wild lands to actual settlers, who will soon convert them into productive farms. But Mr. Greeley,
upon seeing an import of $16,644,220 of iron rails, declares the thing must be stopped or the
country will perish.

P, is Sir Morton Peto and other European capitalists, who, believing that eight per cent.,
the average rate of interest in the United States, is better than three per cent., the average
rate in England, invest $10,000,000 of capital in American enterprises. This capital is sent
hither in the form of merchandise, to stock our railroads, farms, factories, etc., and is so
much clear benefit to the country; but to Mr. Greeley's solitary vision it is only a curse.

Q, and his friends are cozy old-fashioned merchants in Boston city, who own one hundred and
seventy-nine vessels (see Consular Reports, 1865), which trade between foreign ports and away
from the United States altogether. These vessels have an aggregate burden of one million tons,
are worth forty dollars, gold, per ton, and earn a net profit per annum of ten per cent. on
their cost. Although in this kind of carrying trade we are wofully behind other nations, yet
it yields, in twelve years (the average age of the vessels engaged in it), the neat little
profit of $48,000,000, which is invested by Q in tea, coffee, and sugar, and imported into
the United States at a net profit of ten per cent. Although an unquestionable gain to Q and
the country at large of $52,800,000, Mr. Greeley, with his contracted views, only regards it
as a dead loss on the import side of our Commerce and Navigation Returns.

R, was a bank which had a defaulting cashier, who ran away in 1857 with $500,000 of its funds.
(Sch*yl*r carried off a million of New Haven Railroad bonds). These funds were recovered and
converted into gold, which was shipped to the United States. According to Mr. Greeley, who
could find no record of exports to counterbalance it, the same was a dead loss to the country.

S, and his friends own 76,990 tons of whaling ships (see Commerce and Navigation Reports, 1866),
worth $40 per ton, gold, or $3,079,600. These ships are sent annually to the Arctic regions
and earn for S and his friends ten per cent., or $307,960 net profit each year. Five years'
profits, consisting of whale oil, bone, etc., which, after an active and profitable trade at
the Sandwich Islands, they returned with this year, were valued at $1,655,659, and were duly
entered among the imports, furnishing to Mr. Greeley an indubitable proof that the country
was losing money in this business, and that the attention of Congress should at once be directed
toward supplying a proper remedy.

T, was a South American refugee, who brought with him a million of dollars in gold doubloons.
After living here for many years, by which time, through foreign trading, his capital had doubled,
he invested the entire avails in United States bonds, as a last and striking evidence of his
faith in our institutions, and departed to his native country, there to rest his bones. This
man clearly prospered, and so did the country in which he settled, and on whose national faith
he lent all his fortune. Yet Mr. Greeley concludes the whole thing to have been a bad job for
us, and harps upon another over-importation of $1,000,000.

U, is a gallant Yankee sea-captain, who picks up an abandoned vessel at sea laden with a valuable
cargo of teas, and bravely tows her into port, receiving $200,000 of the proceeds of the sale
of her cargo as salvage for his skill and intrepidity. From Mr. Greeley's point of view U is
a traitor to his country, and suffering a merited poverty for over-importing. But U drives
his carriage about town, and has his own opinion of Mr. Greeley's views.

V, having a debt of $300,000 due to him by a merchant in Alexandria, requests him to invest
the same in Arabian horses, as fancy stock to improve American breeds. The horses arrive in
good order, and on being sold, yield V a net profit of $30,000, besides enriching our native
breeds of these useful animals. Mr. Greeley still holds out, and jots the whole transaction
down as an additional evidence of national decadence.

TABULAR EXPOSE.

Official Returns of these Transactions as they would appear per Commerce and Navigation Reports.--Sums
all stated in gold.

--+------------+------------+------------+----------------|
  |Exports.    | Imports.   | Net profit |Immediate       |
  |Value in the| Foreign    | to the     |accretion to the|
  |United      | value.     | individual.|country's stock |
  |States.     |            |            |of productive   |
  |            |            |            |wealth.         |
--+------------+------------+------------+----------------|
A | $10,000,000| $11,000,000| $2,000,000 |  $2,000,000    |
B |            |   1,000,000|    100,000 |   1,100,000    |
C |            |   1,000,000|    100,000 |   1,000,000    |
D |            |   1,000,000|  1,100,000 |   1,100,000    |
E |   1,000,000|   1,610,510|    610,510 |     610,510    |
F |            |     200,000|     50,000 |      50,000    |
G |            |     600,000|            |                |
H |            |     250,000|    175,000 |     175,000    |
I |            |  40,000,000|  4,000,000 |   4,000,000    |
J |            |   1,440,000|    184,000 |   1,584,000    |
K |            |     222,222|     22,222 |      22,222    |
L |            |  25,000,000|            |  25,000,000    |
M |            |   1,000,000|    100,000 |   1,000,000    |
N |            |   1,000,000|    100,000 |   1,100,000    |
O |            |  16,644,220|  1,664,422 |  18,308,642    |
P |            |  10,000,000|            |  10,000,000    |
Q |            |  48,000,000| 52,800,000 |  52,800,000    |
R |            |     500,000|    500,000 |     500,000    |
S |            |   1,655,659|  1,655,659 |   1,655,659    |
T |            |   1,000,000|  1,000,000 |   2,000,000    |
U |            |     200,000|    200,000 |     200,000    |
V |            |     300,000|     30,000 |     330,000    |
W |            |            |            |                |
X |            |            |            |                |
Y |            |            |            |                |
Z |            |            |            |                |
--+------------+------------+------------+----------------|
    $11,000,000|$163,622,611|$66,391,813 |$124,736,033    |
-----------------------------------------------------------

W, X, Y, Z, represent 43,628,427,835,109 other commercial transactions, in all of which the
parties to them and the countries in which they live make money, but which, regarded from Mr.
Greeley's solitary point of view, should be stopped at once by appropriate legislation.

These various transactions, it will be perceived, have netted to the individuals engaged in
them a clear profit of $66,391,813, while the country has added to its immediate stock of wealth
not only this sum, but $58,344,220 over, viz: $124,736,033; while, according to the Balance
of Trade chimera, which simply weighs the custom-house reports of the value of the exports
with that of the imports (and their values in their respective countries of production, too),
this commerce has been a loss to the country of $163,622,611--$11,000,000: $152,622,611.

So much for theory when confronted with practice.

CHAPTER VII.

A PETITION.

"To the Honorable the Senators and Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.
Pit-Hole, Tack, and Oil Creek stock will go up exceedingly, and an immense revenue will thereby
accrue to the numerous possessors of oil lands, who will be able to pay such a large tax that
the national debt can be paid off at once. Besides that, the patent hermetical barrel trade,
and numerous other industries connected with the oil trade, will prosper at an unprecedented
rate, to the great benefit and glory of the country.

CHAPTER VIII.

DISCRIMINATING DUTIES.

The honest countryman, arriving in the city of Cincinnati, there met an Englishman and a Yankee.

The Yankee said to him, "Give me your wine, and I in exchange will give you fifteen bundles
of Yankee lace."

The Englishman said, "Give it to me, and I will give you twenty bundles of English lace, for
we English can spin cheaper than the Yankees."

"What!" exclaimed the countryman, "you wish me to take fifteen bundles of New England lace,
when I can have twenty from Manchester!"

Finally: and this will, no doubt, recommend it to the public, it will not increase the Budget
one cent; but the contrary. It will not augment the number of office-holders, nor the exigencies
of State; but the contrary. It will put in hazard the liberty of no one; but on the contrary,
it will secure to each a greater freedom.

It was immediately evident to me that this was the result of
obstacles of various kinds existing between Montreal and New York.
First, there is distance, which cannot be overcome without trouble
and loss of time; and either we must submit to these troubles and
losses in our own person, or pay another for bearing them for us. A similar article of New York manufacture costs forty
dollars. What is our course under these circumstances?
   10   "      duty.
    5   "      transportation by railway.
   --
   35 dollars--total, or market price at New York.

Could we not have attained the same end by lowering the tariff to five dollars? We would then
have--

   20 dollars--price at Montreal.
    5   "      duty.
   10   "      transportation on the common road.
   --
   35 dollars--total, or market price at New York. So be it; but do not then destroy the effect of it by your
railway. For if you persist in your determination to keep the Canadian
article on a par with the New York one at forty dollars, you must
raise the duty to fifteen dollars, in order to have:--

   20 dollars--price at Montreal.
   15   "      protective duty.
    5   "      transportation by railway.
   --
   40 dollars--total, at equalized prices.

And I now ask, of what benefit, under these circumstances, is the railway? To be the dupe of
another, is bad enough; but to employ all the forms and ceremonies of representation in order
to cheat oneself--to doubly cheat oneself, and that too in a mere numerical account--truly
this is calculated to lower a little the pride of this enlightened age. Some day or other she
will learn to better calculate her own interests." We would be entirely ruined if the embarrassments
of the road were not carefully weighed and exactly equalized between N*w Y*rk and M*ntr**l.
There would be more difficulty in going than in coming; in exportation than in importation.
Thus, if everybody pays as consumer, everybody receives also as producer." Spoliation does
the same. This is a question of fact.

All this is nonsense, and not science.

The following passage occurs in the writings of a French protectionist:

"If fifteen millions of merchandise sold to foreign nations, be taken from our ordinary produce,
calculated at fifty millions, the thirty-five millions of merchandise which remain, not being
sufficient for the ordinary demand, will increase in price to the value of fifty millions.
The revenue of the country will thus represent fifteen millions more in value.... There will
then be an increase of fifteen millions in the riches of the country; precisely the amount
of the importation of money."

This is droll enough! If a country has made in the course of the year fifty millions of revenue
in harvests and merchandise, she need but sell one-quarter to foreign nations, in order to
make herself one-quarter richer than before! If then she sold the half, she would increase
her riches by one-half; and if the last hair of her wool, the last grain of her wheat, were
to be changed for cash, she would thus raise her product to one hundred millions, where before
it was but fifty! A singular manner, certainly, of becoming rich. Unlimited price produced
by unlimited scarcity!

To sum up our judgment of the two systems, let us contemplate their different effects when
pushed to the most exaggerated extreme.

According to the protectionist just quoted, the French would be quite as rich, that is to say,
as well provided with everything, if they had but a thousandth part of their annual produce,
because this part would then be worth a thousand times its natural value! So much for looking
at prices alone.

According to us, the French would be infinitely rich if their annual produce were infinitely
abundant, and consequently bearing no value at all.

CHAPTER XII.

DOES PROTECTION RAISE THE RATE OF WAGES?

When we hear our beardless scribblers, romancers, reformers, our perfumed magazine writers,
stuffed with ices and champagne, as they carefully place in their portfolios the sentimental
scissorings which fill the current literature of the day, or cause to be decorated with gilded
ornaments their tirades against the egotism and the individualism of the age; when we hear
them declaiming against social abuses, and groaning over deficient wages and needy families;
when we see them raising their eyes to heaven and weeping over the wretchedness of the laboring
classes, while they never visit this wretchedness unless it be to draw lucrative sketches of
its scenes of misery, we are tempted to say to them: The sight of you is enough to make me
sicken of attempting to teach the truth.

Affectation! Affectation! It is the nauseating disease of the day! If a thinking man, a sincere
philanthropist, takes into consideration the condition of the working classes and endeavors
to lay bare their necessities, scarcely has his work made an impression before it is greedily
seized upon by the crowd of reformers, who turn, twist, examine, quote, exaggerate it, until
it becomes ridiculous; and then, as sole compensation, you are overwhelmed with such big words
as: Organization, Association; you are flattered and fawned upon until you become ashamed of
publicly defending the cause of the working man; for how can it be possible to introduce sensible
ideas in the midst of these sickening affectations?

But we must put aside this cowardly indifference, which the affectation that provokes it is
not enough to justify.

I too, perhaps, may some day speak to you of the Voice of the People, the Rights of Labor,
&c., and may perhaps be able to show you what you have to expect from the chimeras by which
you allow yourselves to be led astray. He bought coal, cloths, and oranges, thus paying tribute
to New Brunswick, France, and Sicily, very unnecessarily; for coal may be found, doeskins may
be made, and oranges may be forced to grow, within our own territory. He paid tribute to the
foreign miner and the weaver; our own servants could very well mine our iron and get up native
doeskins almost as good as the French article. Was he the richer for this course? No; for his
mine did not yield coal as cheaply as he could buy it in the market, nor was the climate favorable
to the orange. In short, the supply of labor continued the same, but the means of paying became
less.

CHAPTER XIII.

THEORY AND PRACTICE.

Defenders of free trade, we are accused of being mere theorists, of not giving sufficient weight
to the practical.

"What a fearful charge against you, free traders," say the protectionists, "is this long succession
of distinguished statesmen, this imposing race of writers, who have all held opinions differing
from yours!" This we do not deny. We answer, "It is said, in support of established errors,
that 'there must be some foundation for ideas so generally adopted by all nations. Should not
one distrust opinions and arguments which overturn that which, until now, has been held as
settled; that which is held as certain by so many persons whose intelligence and motives make
them trustworthy?'"

We confess this argument should make a profound impression, and ought to throw doubt on the
most incontestable points, if we had not seen, one after another, opinions the most false,
now generally acknowledged to be such, received and professed by all the world during a long
succession of centuries. It is not very long since all nations, from the most rude to the most
enlightened, and all men, from the street-porter to the most learned philosopher, believed
in the four elements. Nobody had thought of contesting this doctrine, which is, however, false;
so much so, that at this day any mere naturalist's assistant, who should consider earth, water,
and fire, elements, would disgrace himself.

On which our opponents make this observation: "If you suppose you have thus answered the very
forcible objection you have proposed to yourselves, you deceive yourselves strangely. Suppose
that men, otherwise intelligent, should be mistaken on any point whatever of natural history
for many centuries, that would signify or prove nothing. Would water, air, earth, fire, be
less useful to man whether they were or were not elements? Such errors are of no consequence;
they lead to no revolutions, do not unsettle the mind; above all, they injure no interests,
so they might, without inconvenience, endure for millions of years. The physical world would
progress just as if they did not exist. Would it be thus with errors which attack the moral
world? Can we conceive that a system of government, absolutely false, consequently injurious,
could be carried out through many centuries, among many nations, with the general consent of
educated men? Can we explain how such a system could be reconciled with the ever-increasing
prosperity of nations? You acknowledge that the argument you combat ought to make a profound
impression. Yes, truly, and this impression remains, for you have rather strengthened than
destroyed it."

Or again, they say: "It was only in the middle of the last century, the eighteenth century,
in which all subjects, all principles, without exception, were delivered up to public discussion,
that these furnishers of speculative ideas which are applied to everything without being applicable
to anything--commenced writing on political economy. There existed, however, a system of political
economy, not written, but practised by governments. It is said that Colbert was its inventor,
and it was the rule of all the States of Europe. What is more singular, it has remained so
till lately, despite anathemas and contempt, and despite the discoveries of the modern school.
This system, which our writers have called the mercantile system, consists in opposing, by
prohibitions and duties, such foreign productions as might ruin our manufacturers by their
competition. This system has been pronounced futile, absurd, capable of ruining any country,
by economical writers of all schools. It has been banished from all books, reduced to take
refuge in the practice of every people; and we do not understand why, in regard to the wealth
of nations, governments should not have yielded themselves to wise authors rather than to the
old experience of a system. Above all, we cannot conceive why, in political economy, the American
government should persist in resisting the progress of light, and in preserving, in its practice,
those old errors which all our economists of the pen have designated. But we have said too
much about this mercantile system, which has in its favor facts alone, though sustained by
scarcely a single writer of the day."

Would not one say, who listened only to this language, that we political economists, in merely
claiming for every one the free disposition of his own property, had, like the Fourierists,
conjured up from our brains a new social order, chimerical and strange; a sort of phalanstery,
without precedent in the annals of the human race, instead of merely talking plain meum and
tuum It seems to us that if there is in all this anything utopian, anything problematical,
it is not free trade, but protection; it is not the right to exchange, but tariff after tariff
applied to overturning the natural order of commerce.

But it is not the point to compare and judge of these two systems by the light of reason; the
question for the moment is, to know which of the two is founded upon experience.

So, Messrs. Monopolists, you pretend that the facts are on your side; that we have, on our
side, theories only.

You even flatter yourselves that this long series of public acts, this old experience of the
world, which you invoke, has appeared imposing to us, and that we confess we have not as yet
refuted you as fully as we might.

But we do not cede to you the domain of facts, for you have on your side only exceptional and
contracted facts, while we have universal ones to oppose to them; the free and voluntary acts
of all men.

What do you say, and what say we?

We say:

"It is better to buy from others anything which would cost more to make ourselves."

And on your part you say:

"It is better to make things ourselves, even though it would cost less to purchase them from
others."

Now, gentlemen, laying aside theory, demonstration, argument, everything which appears to afflict
you with nausea, which of these assertions has in its favor the sanction of universal practice?

Visit the fields, work-rooms, manufactories, shops; look above, beneath, and around you; investigate
what is going on in your own establishment; observe your own conduct at all times, and then
say which is the principle that directs these labors, these workmen, these inventors, these
merchants; say, too, which is your own individual practice.

Does the farmer make his clothes? Does the tailor raise the wheat which he consumes? Does not
your housekeeper cease making bread at home so soon as she finds it more economical to buy
it from the baker? And is exchange anything else than the calculation which leads us to discontinue,
as far as we can, direct production, when indirect acquisition spares us time and trouble?

You are not, then, men of practice, since you cannot show a single man on the surface of the
globe who acts in accordance with your principle.

"But," you will say, "we have never heard our principle made the rule of individual relations.
We comprehend perfectly that this would break the social bond, and force men to live, like
snails, each one in his own shell. All of them procure, by means of exchange, that which would
cost them more to procure by means of production. Nations would act in the same natural manner,
if you did not prevent it by force.

It is we, then, who are the men of practice and of experience; for, in order to combat the
interdict which you have placed exceptionally on certain international exchanges, we appeal
to the practice and experience of all individuals, and all agglomerations of individuals whose
acts are voluntary, and consequently may be called on for testimony. But you commence by constraining,
by preventing, and then you avail yourself of acts caused by prohibition to exclaim, "See!
practice justifies us!" You oppose our theory, indeed all theory. But when you put a principle
in antagonism with ours, do you, by chance, fancy that you have formed no theory? No, no; erase
that from your plea. You form a theory as well as ourselves; but between yours and ours there
is this difference: our theory consists merely in observing universal facts, universal sentiments,
universal calculations and proceedings, and further, in classifying them and arranging them,
in order to understand them better. It is so little opposed to practice, that it is nothing
but practice explained. We observe the actions of men moved by the instinct of preservation
and of progress; and what they do freely, voluntarily, is precisely what we call political
economy, or the economy of society. We go on repeating with out cessation: "Every man is practically
an excellent economist, producing or exchanging, according as it is most advantageous to him
to exchange or to produce. Each one, through experience, is educated to science; or rather,
science is only that same experience scrupulously observed and methodically set forth."

As for you, you form a theory, in the unfavorable sense of the word. You imagine, you invent--proceedings
which are not sanctioned by the practice of any living man under the vault of heaven--and then
you call to your assistance constraint and prohibition. You need, indeed, have recourse to
force, since, in wishing that men should produce that which it would be more advantageous to
them to buy, you wish them to renounce an advantage; you demand that they should act in accordance
with a doctrine which implies contradiction even in its terms.

Now, this doctrine, which, you argue, would be absurd in individual relations, we defy you
to extend, even in speculation, to transactions between families, towns, counties, states.
By your own avowal, it is applicable to international relations only.

And this is why you are obliged to repeat daily: "Principles are not in their nature absolute.
That which is well in the individual, the family, the county, the state, is evil in the nation.
That which is good in detail--such as, to purchase rather than to produce, when purchase is
more advantageous than production--is bad in the mass. The political economy of individuals
is not that of nations," and other rubbish, ejusdem farinæ. And why all this? Look at it closely.
It is in order to prove to us that we, consumers, are your property, that we belong to you
body and soul, that you have an exclusive right to our stomachs and limbs, and it is for you
to nourish us and clothe us at your own price, however great may be your ignorance, your rapacity,
or the inferiority of your position.

No, you are not men of practice; you are men of abstraction--and of extraction!

CHAPTER XIV.

CONFLICT OF PRINCIPLES.

There is one thing which confounds us, and it is this:

Some sincere publicists, studying social economy from the point of view of producers only,
have arrived at this double formula:

"Governments ought to dispose of the consumers subject to the influence of their laws, in favor
of national labor."

"They should render distant consumers subject to their laws, in order to dispose of them in
favor of national labor."

The first of these formulas is termed protection; the latter, expediency.

Both rest on the principle called Balance of Trade; the formula of which is:

"A people impoverishes itself when it imports, and enriches itself when it exports."

Of course, if every foreign purchase is a tribute paid, a loss, it is perfectly evident we
must restrain, even prohibit, importations.

And if all foreign sales are tribute received, profit, it is quite natural to create channels
of outlet, even by force.

Protective System--Colonial System: two aspects of the same theory. To hinder our fellow-citizens
purchasing of foreigners, to force foreigners to purchase from our fellow-citizens, are merely
two consequences of one identical principle. Now, it is impossible not to recognize that according
to this doctrine, general utility rests on monopoly, or interior spoliation, and on conquest,
or exterior spoliation.

Let us enter one of the cabins among the Adirondacks. The father of the family has received
for his work only a slender salary. The icy northern blast makes his half naked children shiver,
the fire is extinguished, and the table bare. There are wool, and wood, and coal, just over
the St. Lawrence; but these commodities are forbidden to the family of the poor day-laborer,
for the other side of the river is no longer the United States. The foreign pine-logs may not
gladden the hearth of his cabin; his children may not know the taste of Canadian bread, the
wool of Upper Canada will not bring back warmth to their benumbed limbs. General utility wills
it so. All very well! but acknowledge that here it contradicts justice. To dispose by legislation
of consumers, to limit them to the products of national labor, is to encroach upon their liberty,
to forbid them a resource (exchange) in which there is nothing contrary to morality; in one
word, it is to do them injustice.

"Yet this is necessary," it is said, "under the penalty of seeing national labor stopped, under
the penalty of striking a fatal blow at public prosperity."

The writers of the protectionist school arrive then at this sad conclusion; that there is a
radical incompatibility between justice and utility.

On the other side, if nations are interested in selling, and not in buying, violent action
and reaction are the natural condition of their relations, for each will seek to impose its
products on all, and all will do their utmost endeavor to reject the products of each.

As a sale, in effect, implies a purchase, and since, according to this doctrine, to sell is
to benefit, as to buy is to injure, every international transaction implies the amelioration
of one people, and the deterioration of another.

But, on one side, men are fatally impelled towards that which profits them: on the contrary,
they resist instinctively whatever injures them; whence we must conclude that every people
bears within itself a natural force of expansion, and a not less natural power of resistance,
which are equally prejudicial to all the others; or, in other terms, that antagonism and war
are the natural constitution of human society!

So that the theory which we are discussing may be summed up in these two axioms:

"Utility is incompatible with justice at home,"

"Utility is incompatible with peace abroad."

Now that which astonishes us, which confounds us, is, that a publicist, a statesman, who has
sincerely adhered to an economic doctrine whose principle clashes so violently with other incontestable
principles, could enjoy one moment's calm and repose of mind. How could He will that they may
remove war and injustice only by renouncing their own well-being?"

Does not the science which has conducted us to the horrible blasphemy which this alternative
implies deceive us by false lights; and shall we dare take on ourselves to make it the basis
of legislation for a great people?

No, no; before taking it for granted that all social principles clash, shock, and neutralize
each other, and are in anarchical, eternal, irremediable, conflict together; before imposing
on our fellow citizens the impious system to which such reasoning conducts us, we had better
go over the whole chain, and assure ourselves that there is no point on the way where we may
have gone astray.

And if, after a faithful examination, twenty times recommenced, we should always return to
this frightful conclusion, that we must choose between the advantages and the good--we should
thrust science away, disheartened; we should shut ourselves up in voluntary ignorance; above
all, we should decline all participation in the affairs of our country, leaving to the men
of another time the burden and the responsibility of a choice so difficult.

CHAPTER XV.

RECIPROCITY AGAIN.

The protectionists ask, "Are we sure that the foreigner will purchase as much from us, as he
will sell to us? What reason have we to think that the English producer will come to us rather
than to any other nation on the globe to look for the productions he may need; and for productions
equivalent in value to his own exportations to this country?"

We are surprised that men who call themselves peculiarly practical, reason independent of all
practice.

In practice, is there one exchange in a hundred, in a thousand, in ten thousand perhaps, where
there is a direct barter of product for product? Since there has been money in the world, has
any cultivator ever said, "I wish to buy shoes, hats, advice, instruction, from that shoemaker,
hatter, lawyer, and professor only, who will purchase from me just wheat enough to make an
equivalent value?"

And why should nations impose such a restraint upon themselves?

How is the matter managed?

Suppose a nation deprived of exterior relations. A man has produced wheat. He throws it into
the widest national circulation he can find for it, and receives in exchange, what? Some dollars;
that is to say bills, bonds, infinitely divisible, by means of which it becomes lawful for
him to withdraw from national circulation, whenever he thinks it advisable, and by just agreement,
such articles as he may need or wish. In fine, at the end of the operation he will have withdrawn
from the mass the exact equivalent of what he threw into it, and in value his consumption will
precisely equal his production.

If the foreign exchanges of that nation are free, it is no longer into national, but into general
circulation that each one throws his products, and from which he draws his returns. He has
not to inquire whether what he delivers up for general circulation is purchased by a fellow-countryman
or a foreigner; whether the goods he receives came to him from a Frenchman or an Englishman;
whether the objects for which, in accordance with his needs, he, in the end, exchanges his
bills, are made on this or that side of the Atlantic or the St. Lawrence. With each individual
there is always an exact balance between what he puts into and what he draws out of the grand
common reservoir; and if that is true of each individual, it is true of the nation in the aggregate.
The only difference between the two cases is, that in the latter, each one is in a more extended
market for both his sales and his purchases, and has consequently more chances of doing well
by both.

This objection is made: "If every one should agree that they would not withdraw from circulation
any of the products of a specified individual, he in turn would sustain the misfortune of being
able to draw nothing out. The same of a nation."

ANSWER.--If the nation cannot draw out of the mass, it will no longer contribute to it: it
will work for itself. It will be compelled to that which you would impose on it in advance:
that is to say, isolation.

And this will be the ideal of prohibitive government. Is it not amusing that you inflict upon
it, at once and already, the misfortune of this system, in the fear that it runs the risk of
getting there some day without you?

CHAPTER XVI.

OBSTRUCTED RIVERS PLEAD FOR THE PROHIBITIONISTS.

Some years ago, when the Spanish Cortes were discussing a treaty with Portugal on improving
the course of the river Douro, a deputy rose and said, "If the Douro is turned into a canal,
transportation will be made at a much lower price. Portuguese cereals will sell cheaper in
Castile, and will make a formidable opposition to our national labor. I oppose the project
unless the ministers engage to raise the tariff in such a way as to restore the equilibrium."
The assembly found the argument unanswerable.

Three months later the same question was submitted to the Senate of Portugal. A noble hidalgo
said: "Mr. President, the project is absurd. You post guards, at great expense, on the banks
of the Douro, in order to prevent the introduction of Castilian cereals into Portugal, while,
at the same time, you would, also, at great expense, facilitate their introduction. This is
an inconsistency with which I cannot identify myself. Let the Douro pass on to our sons as
our fathers left it to us."

Now, when it is proposed to alter and confine the course of the Mississippi, we recall the
arguments of the Iberian orators, and say to ourselves, if the member from St. Louis was as
good an economist as those of Valencia, and the representatives from New Orleans as powerful
logicians as those of Oporto, assuredly the Mississippi would be left

     "To sleep amid its forests dank and lone,"

for to improve the navigation of the Mississippi will favor the introduction of New Orleans
products to the injury of St. Louis, and an inundation of the products of St. Louis to the
detriment of New Orleans.

CHAPTER XVII.

A NEGATIVE RAILROAD.

We have said that when, unfortunately, we place ourselves at the point of view of the producer's
interest, we cannot fail to clash with the general interest, because the producer, as such,
demands only efforts, wants, and obstacles.

When the Atlantic and Great Western Railway is finished, the question will arise, "Should connection
be broken at Pittsburg?" This the Pittsburgers will answer affirmatively, for a multitude of
reasons, but for this among others; the railroad from New York to St. Louis ought to have an
interruption at Pittsburg, in order that merchandise and travellers compelled to stop in the
city may leave in it fees to the hackmen, pedlars, errand-boys, consignees, hotel-keepers, etc.

It is clear, that here again the interest of the agent of labor is placed before the interest
of the consumer.

But if Pittsburg ought to profit by the interruption, and if the profit is conformable with
public interest, Harrisburg, Dayton, Indianapolis, Columbus, much more all the intermediate
points, ought to demand stoppages, and that in the general interest, in the widely extended
interest of national labor, for the more they are multiplied, the more will consignments, commissions,
transportations, be multiplied on all points of the line. With this system we arrive at a railroad
of successive stoppages, to a negative railroad.

Whether the protectionists wish it or not, it is not the less certain that the principle of
restriction is the same as the principle of gaps, the sacrifice of the consumers to the producer,
of the end to the means.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THERE ARE NO ABSOLUTE PRINCIPLES.

We cannot be too much astonished at the facility with which men resign themselves to be ignorant
of what is most important for them to know, and we may feel sure that they have decided to
go to sleep in their ignorance when they have brought themselves to proclaim this axiom: There
are no absolute principles.

Enter the Halls of Congress. The question under discussion is whether the law shall interdict
or allow international exchanges.

Mr. C****** rises and says:

"If you tolerate these exchanges, the foreigner will inundate you with his products, the English
with cotton and iron goods, the Nova-Scotian with coal, the Spaniard with wool, the Italian
with silk, the Canadian with cattle, the Swede with iron, the Newfoundlander with salt-fish.
Industrial pursuits will thus be destroyed."

Mr. G***** replies:

"If you prohibit these exchanges, the varied benefits which nature has lavished on different
climates will be, to you, as though they were not. You will not participate in the mechanical
skill of the English, nor in the riches of the Nova-Scotian mines, in the abundance of Canadian
pasturage, in the cheapness of Spanish labor, in the fervor of the Italian climate; and you
will be obliged to ask through a forced production that which you might by exchange have obtained
through a readier production."

Assuredly, one of the senators deceives himself. But which? It is well worth while to ascertain;
for we are not dealing with opinions only. You stand at the entrance of two roads; you must
choose; one of them leads necessarily to misery.

To escape from this embarrassment it is said: There are no absolute principles.

This axiom, so much in vogue in our day, not only serves laziness, it is also in accord with
ambition.

If the theory of prohibition should prevail, or again, if the doctrine of liberty should triumph,
a very small amount of law would suffice for our economic code. In the first case it would
stand--All foreign exchange is forbidden; in the second, All exchange with abroad is free,
and many great personages would lose their importance.

But if exchange has not a nature proper to itself; if it is governed by no natural law; if
it is capriciously useful or injurious; if it does not find its spring in the good it accomplishes,
its limit when it ceases to do good; if its effects cannot be appreciated by those who execute
them; in one word, if there are no absolute principles, we are compelled to measure, weigh,
regulate transactions, to equalize the conditions of labor, to look for the level of profits--colossal
task, well suited to give great entertainments, and high influence to those who undertake it.

Here in New York are a million of human beings who would all die within a few days, if the
abundant provisioning of nature were not flowing towards this great metropolis.

Imagination takes fright in the effort to appreciate the immense multiplicity of articles which
must cross the Bay, the Hudson, the Harlem, and the East rivers, to-morrow, if the lives of
its inhabitants are not to become the prey of famine, riot, and pillage. Yet, as we write,
all are sleeping; and their quiet slumbers are not disturbed for a moment by the thought of
so frightful a perspective. On the other hand, forty-five States and Territories have worked
to-day, without concert, without mutual understanding, to provision New York. How is it that
every day brings in what is needed, neither more nor less, to this gigantic market? What is
the intelligent and secret power which presides over the astonishing regularity of movements
so complicated--a regularity in which each one has a faith so undoubting, though comfort and
life are at stake.

This power is an absolute principle, the principle of freedom of operation, the principle of
free conduct.

We have faith in that innate light which Providence has placed in the hearts of all men, to
which he has confided the preservation and improvement of our race-interest (since we must
call it by its name), which is so active, so vigilant, so provident, when its action is free.
What would become of you, inhabitants of New York, if a Congressional majority should take
a fancy to substitute for this power the combinations of their genius, however superior it
may be supposed to be; if they imagined they could submit this prodigious mechanism to its
supreme direction, unite all its resources in their own hands, and decide when, where, how,
and on what conditions everything should be produced, transported, exchanged, and consumed?
Ah! though there may be much suffering within your bounds, though misery, despair, and perhaps
hungry exhaustion may cause more tears to flow than your ardent charity can dry, it is probable,
it is certain, we dare to affirm, that the arbitrary intervention of government would multiply
these sufferings infinitely, and would extend to you all, those evils which at present are
confined to a small portion of your number.

We all have faith in this principle where our internal transactions are concerned; why should
we not have faith in the same principle applied to our international operations, which are,
assuredly, less numerous, less delicate, and less complicated. And if it is not necessary that
the Mayor and Common Council of New York should regulate our industries, weigh our change,
our profits, and our losses, occupy themselves with the regulation of prices, equalize the
conditions of our labor in internal commerce--why is it necessary that the custom-house, proceeding
on its fiscal mission, should pretend to exercise protective action upon our exterior commerce?

CHAPTER XIX.

NATIONAL INDEPENDENCE.

Among the arguments which are considered of weight in favor of the restriction system, we must
not forget that drawn from national independence.

"What shall we do in case of war," say they, "if we have placed ourselves at the mercy of Great
Britain for iron and coal?"

English monopolists did not fail on their side to exclaim, when the corn-laws were repealed,
"What will become of Great Britain in time of war if she depends on the United States for food?"

One thing they fail to observe: it is that this sort of dependence, which results from exchange,
from commercial operations, is a reciprocal dependence. We cannot depend on the foreigner unless
the foreigner depends on us. This is the very essence of society. We do not place ourselves
in a state of independence by breaking natural relations, but in a state of isolation.

Remark also: we isolate ourselves in the anticipation of war; but the very act of isolation
is the commencement of war. It renders it more easy, less burdensome, therefore less unpopular.
Let nations become permanent recipient customers each of the other, let the interruption of
their relations inflict upon them the double suffering of privation and surfeit, and they will
no longer require the powerful navies which ruin them, the great armies which crush them; the
peace of the world will no longer be compromised by the caprice of a Napoleon or of a Bismarck,
and war will disappear through lack of aliment, resources, motive, pretext, and popular sympathy.

When shall we have done with such puerile talk? When shall we banish charlatanry from science?
When shall we cease to manifest this disgusting contradiction between our writings and our
conduct? We hoot at and spit upon interest, that is to say, the useful, the right (for to say
that all nations are interested in a thing, is to say that that thing is good in itself), as
if interest were not the necessary, eternal, indestructible instrument to which Providence
has intrusted human perfectibility. Would not one suppose us all angels of disinterestedness?
And is it supposed that the public does not see with disgust that this affected language blackens
precisely those pages for which it is compelled to pay highest? Affectation is truly the malady
of this age.

What! because comfort and peace are correlative things; because it has pleased God to establish
this beautiful harmony in the moral world; you are not willing that we should admire and adore
His providence, and accept with gratitude laws which make justice the condition of happiness.
You wish peace only so far as it is destructive to comfort; and liberty burdens you because
it imposes no sacrifices on you. If self-renunciation has so many claims for you, who prevents
your carrying it into private life? Society will be grateful to you for it, for some one, at
least, will receive the benefit of it; but to wish to impose it on humanity as a principle
is the height of absurdity, for the abnegation of everything is the sacrifice of everything--it
is evil set up in theory.

But, thank Heaven, men may write and read a great deal of such talk, without causing the world
to refrain on that account from rendering obedience to its motive-power, which is, whether
they will or no, interest. After all, it is singular enough to see sentiments of the most sublime
abnegation invoked in favor of plunder itself. Just see to what this ostentatious disinterestedness
tends. These men, so poetically delicate that they do not wish for peace itself, if it is founded
on the base interest of men, put their hands in the pockets of others, and, above all, of the
poor; for what section of the tariff protects the poor?

Well, gentlemen, dispose according to your own judgment of what belongs to yourselves, but
allow us also to dispose of the fruit of the sweat of our brows, to avail ourselves of exchange
at our own pleasure. Talk away about self-renunciation, for that is beautiful; but at the same
time practice a little honesty.

CHAPTER XX.

HUMAN LABOR--NATIONAL LABOR.

To break machines, to reject foreign merchandise--are two acts proceeding from the same doctrine.

We see men who clap their hands when a great invention is made known to the world, who nevertheless
adhere to the protective system. Such men are highly inconsistent.

With what do they upbraid freedom of commerce? With getting foreigners more skilful or better
situated than ourselves to produce articles, which, but for them, we should produce ourselves.
In one word, they accuse us of damaging national labor.

Might they not as well reproach machines for accomplishing, by natural agents, work which,
without them, we could perform with our own arms, and, in consequence, damaging human labor?

The foreign workman who is more favorably situated than the American laborer, is, in respect
to the latter, a veritable economic machine, which injures him by competition. In the same
manner, a machine which executes a piece of work at a less price than can be done by a certain
number of arms, is, relatively to those arms, a true competing foreigner, who paralyzes them
by his rivalry.

If, then, it is needful to protect national labor against the competition of foreign labor,
it is not less so, to protect human labor against the rivalry of mechanical labor.

So, he who adheres to the protective policy, if he has but a small amount of logic in his brain,
must not stop when he has prohibited foreign products; he must farther proscribe the shuttle
and the plough.

And that is the reason why we prefer the logic of those men who, declaiming against the invasion
of exotic merchandise, have, at least, the courage to declaim as well against the excess of
production due to the inventive power of the human mind.

Hear such a Conservative:--"One of the strongest arguments against liberty of commerce, and
the too great employment of machines, is, that very many workmen are deprived of work, either
by foreign competition, which is destructive to their manufactures, or by machines, which take
the place of men in the workshops."

This gentleman perfectly sees the analogy, or rather, let us say, the identity, existing between
importations and machines; that is the reason he proscribes both: and truly there is some pleasure
in having to do with reasonings, which, even in error, pursue an argument to the end.

Let us look at the difficulty in the way of its soundness.

If it be true, à priori, that the domain of invention and that of labor cannot be extended,
except at the expense of one or the other, it is in the place where there are most machines,
Lancaster or Lowell, for example, that we shall meet with the fewest workmen. And if, on the
contrary, we prove a fact, that mechanical and hand work co-exist in a greater degree among
wealthy nations than among savages, we must necessarily conclude that these two powers do not
exclude each other.

It is not easy to explain how a thinking being can taste repose in presence of this dilemma:

Either--"The inventions of man do not injure labor, as general facts attest, since there are
more of both among the English and Americans than among the Hottentots and Cherokees. In that
case I have made a false reckoning, though I know neither where nor when I got astray. I should
commit the crime of treason to humanity if I should introduce my error into the legislation
of my country."

Or else--"The discoveries of the mind limit the work of the arms, as some particular facts
seem to indicate; for I see daily a machine do the labor of from twenty to a hundred workmen,
and thus I am forced to prove a flagrant, eternal, incurable antithesis between the intellectual
and physical ability of man; between his progress and his comfort; and I cannot forbear saying
that the Creator of man ought to have given him either reason or arms, moral force, or brutal
force, but that he has played with him in conferring upon him opposing faculties which destroy
one another."

The difficulty is pressing. Do you know how they get rid of it? By this singular apothegm:

"In political economy there are no absolute principles."

In intelligible and vulgar language, that means: "I do not know where is the true nor the false;
I am ignorant of what constitutes general good or evil; I give myself no trouble about it.
The only law which I consent to recognize, is the immediate effect of each measure upon my
personal comfort."

No absolute principles! You might as well say, there are no absolute facts; for principles
are only the summing up of well proven facts.

Machines, importations, have certainly consequences. These consequences are good or bad. On
this point there may be difference of opinion. But whichever of these we adopt, we express
it in one of these two principles: "machines are a benefit," or "machines are an evil." "Importations
are favorable," or "importations are injurious." But to say "there are no principles," is the
lowest degree of abasement to which the human mind can descend; and we confess we blush for
our country when we hear so monstrous a heresy uttered in the presence of the American people,
with their consent; that is to say, in the presence and with the consent of the greater part
of our fellow-citizens, in order to justify Congress for imposing laws on us, in perfect ignorance
of the reasons for them or against them.

But then we shall be told, "destroy the sophism; prove that machines do not injure human labor,
nor importations national industry."

In an essay of this nature such demonstrations cannot be complete. Our aim is more to propose
difficulties than to solve them; to excite reflection, than to satisfy it. No conviction of
the mind is well acquired, excepting that which it gains by its own labor. We will try, nevertheless,
to place it before you.

The opponents of importations and machines are mistaken, because they judge by immediate and
transitory consequences, instead of looking at general and final ones.

The immediate effect of an ingenious machine is to economize, towards a given result, a certain
amount of handwork. But its action does not stop there: inasmuch as this result is obtained
with less effort, it is given to the public for a lower price; and the amount of the savings
thus realized by all the purchasers, enables them to procure other gratifications--that is
to say, to encourage handwork in general, equal in amount to that subtracted from the special
handwork lately improved upon--so that the level of work has not fallen, though that of gratification
has risen. Let us make this connection of consequences evident by an example.

Suppose that in the United States ten millions of hats are sold at five dollars each: this
affords to the hatters' trade an income of fifty millions. A machine is invented which allows
hats to be afforded at three dollars each. The receipts are reduced to thirty millions, admitting
that the consumption does not increase. But, for all that, the other twenty millions are not
subtracted from human labor. Economized by the purchasers of hats, they will serve them in
satisfying other needs, and by consequence will, to that amount, remunerate collective industry.
With these two dollars saved, John will purchase a pair of shoes, James a book, William a piece
of furniture, etc. Human labor, in the general, will thus continue to be encouraged to the
amount of fifty millions; but this sum, beside giving the same number of hats as before, will
add the gratifications obtained by the twenty millions which the machine has spared. These
gratifications are the net products which America has gained by the invention. It is a gratuitous
gift, a tax, which the genius of man has imposed on Nature. We do not deny that, in the course
of the change, a certain amount of labor may have been displaced; but we cannot agree that
it has been destroyed, or even diminished. The same holds true of importations.

We will resume the hypothesis. America makes ten millions of hats, of which the price was five
dollars each. The foreigner invaded our market in furnishing us with hats at three dollars.
We say that national labor will be not at all diminished. For it will have to produce to the
amount of thirty millions, in order to pay for ten millions of hats at three dollars. And then
there will remain to each purchaser two dollars saved on each hat, or a total of twenty millions,
which will compensate for other enjoyments; that is to say, for other work. So the total of
labor remains what it was; and the supplementary enjoyments, represented by twenty millions
economized on the hats, will form the net profit of the importations, or of free trade.

No one need attempt to horrify us by a picture of the sufferings, which, in this hypothesis,
will accompany the displacement of labor. For if prohibition had never existed, labor would
have classed itself in accordance with the law of exchange, and no displacement would have
taken place. If, on the contrary, prohibition has brought in an artificial and unproductive
kind of work, it is prohibition, and not free trade, which is responsible for the inevitable
displacement, in the transition from wrong to right.

Unless, indeed, it should be contended that, because an abuse cannot be destroyed without hurting
those who profit by it, its existence for a single moment is reason enough why it should endure
forever.

CHAPTER XXI.

RAW MATERIAL.

It is said that the most advantageous commerce consists in the exchange of manufactured goods
for raw material, because this raw material is a spur to national labor.

And then the conclusion is drawn, that the best custom-house regulation would be that which
should give the utmost possible facility to the entry of raw material, and oppose the greatest
obstacles to articles which have received their first manipulation by labor.

No sophism of political economy is more widely spread than the foregoing. It supports not only
the protectionists, but, much more, and above all, the pretended liberalists. This is to be
regretted; for the worst which can happen to a good cause is not to be severely attacked, but
to be badly defended.

Commercial freedom will probably have the fate of all freedom; it will not be introduced into
our laws until after it has taken possession of our minds. But if it be true that a reform
must be generally understood, in order that it may be solidly established, it follows that
nothing can retard it so much as that which misleads public opinion; and what is more likely
to mislead it than those writings which seem to favor freedom by upholding the doctrines of
monopoly?

Several years ago, three large cities of France--Lyons, Bordeaux, and Havre--were greatly agitated
against the restrictive policy. The nation, and indeed all Europe, was moved at seeing a banner
raised, which they supposed to be that of free trade. Alas! it was still the banner of monopoly;
of a monopoly a little more niggardly, and a great deal more absurd, than that which they appeared
to wish to overturn. Owing to the sophism which we are about to unveil, the petitioners merely
reproduced the doctrine of protection to national labor, adding to it, however, another folly.

What is, in effect, the prohibitive system? Let us listen to the protectionist: "Labor constitutes
the wealth of a people, because it alone creates those material things which our necessities
demand, and because general comfort depends upon these."

This is the principle.

"But this abundance must be the product of national labor. Should it be the product of foreign
labor, national labor would stop at once."

This is the mistake. (See the close of the last chapter.)

"What shall be done, then, in an agricultural and manufacturing country?"

This is the question.

"Restrict its market to the products of its own soil, and its own industry."

This is the end proposed.

"And for this end, restrain by prohibitive duties the entrance of the products of the industry
of other nations."

These are the means.

Let us reconcile with this system that of the petition from Bordeaux.

It divided merchandise into three classes:

"The first includes articles of food, and raw material free from all human labor. A wise economy
would require that this class should not be taxed."

Here there is no labor; consequently no protection.

"The second is composed of articles which have undergone some preparation. This preparation
warrants us in charging it with some tax."

Here protection commences, because, according to the petitioners, national labor commences.

"The third comprises perfected articles which can in no way serve national labor; we consider
these the most taxable."

Here, labor, and with it protection, reach their maximum.

The petitioners assert that foreign labor injures national labor; this is the error of the
prohibitive school.

They demanded that the French market should be restricted to French labor; this is the end
of the prohibitive system.

They insisted that foreign labor should be subject to restriction and taxation; these are the
means of the prohibitive system.

What difference, then, is it possible to discover between the petitioners of Bordeaux and the
advocate of American restriction? One alone: the greater or less extent given to the word labor.

The protectionist extends it to everything--so he wishes to protect everything.

"Labor constitutes all the wealth of a people," says he; "to protect national industry, all
national industry, manufacturing industry, all manufacturing industry, is the idea which should
always be kept before the people." The petitioners saw no labor excepting that of manufacturers;
so they would admit that alone to the favors of protection. They said:

"Raw material is devoid of all human labor. For that reason we should not tax it. Fabricated
articles can no longer occupy national labor. We consider them the most taxable."

We are not inquiring whether protection to national labor is reasonable. The protectionist
and the Bordelais agree upon this point, and we, as has been seen in the preceding chapters,
differ from both.

The question is to ascertain which of the two--the protectionists or the raw-materialists of
Bordeaux--give its just acceptation to the word "labor." Yet you assert that there is a host
of merchandise possessed of value (since it sells), which is, however, free from human labor.
And, among other things, you name wheat, corn, meats, cattle, lard, salt, iron, brass, lead,
coal, wool, furs, seeds, etc. If you can prove to me that the value of these things is not
due to labor, I will agree that it is useless to protect them. But, again, if I demonstrate
to you that there is as much labor in a hundred dollars' worth of wool as in a hundred dollars'
worth of cloth, you must acknowledge that protection is as much due to the one as to the other.
Now, why is this bag of wool worth a hundred dollars? Is it not because that sum is the price
of production? And is the price of production anything but that which it has been necessary
to distribute in wages, salaries, manual labor, interest, to all the workmen and capitalists
who have concurred in producing the article?"

The RAW-MATERIALIST: "It is true, that in regard to wool, you may be right. But a bag of wheat,
an ingot of iron, a quintal of coal--are they the produce of labor? Did not Nature create them?"

The PROTECTIONIST: "Without doubt Nature creates the elements of all things; but it is labor
which produces their value. I was wrong myself in saying that labor creates material objects,
and this faulty phrase has led the way to many other errors. It does not belong to man, either
manufacturer or cultivator, to create, to make something out of nothing; if, by production,
we understand creation, all our labors will be unproductive; that of merchants more so than
any other, except, perhaps, that of law-makers. The farmer has no claim to have created wheat,
but he may claim to have created its value: he has transformed into wheat substances which
in no wise resembled it, by his own labor with that of his ploughmen and reapers. What more
does the miller effect who converts it into flour, the baker who turns it into bread? Because
man must clothe himself in cloth, a host of operations is necessary. Before the intervention
of any human labor, the true raw materials of this product (cloth) are air, water, gas, light,
the chemical substances which must enter into its composition. These are truly the raw materials
which are untouched by human labor; therefore, they are of no value, and I do not think of
protecting them. But a first labor converts these substances into hay, straw, etc., a second
into wool, a third into thread, a fourth into cloth, a fifth into clothing--who will dare to
say that every step in this work is not labor, from the first stroke of the plough, which begins,
to the last stroke of the needle, which terminates it? And because, in order to secure more
celerity and perfection in the accomplishment of a definite work, such as a garment, the labors
are divided among several classes of industry, you wish, by an arbitrary distinction, that
the order of succession of these labors should be the only reason for their importance; so
much so that the first shall not deserve even the name of labor, and that the last work pre-eminently,
shall alone be worthy of the favors of protection!"

The RAW-MATERIALIST: "Yes, we begin to see that wheat no more than wool is entirely devoid
of human labor; but, at least, the agriculturist has not, like the manufacturer, done all by
himself and his workmen; Nature aids him, and if there is labor, it is not all labor in the wheat."

The PROTECTIONIST: "But all its value is in the labor it has cost. I admit that Nature has
assisted in the material formation of wheat. I admit even that it may be exclusively her work;
but confess that I have controlled it by my labor; and when I sell you some wheat, observe
this well: that it is not the work of Nature for which I make you pay, but my own; and, on
your supposition, manufactured articles would be no more the product of labor than agricultural
ones. Does not the manufacturer, too, rely upon Nature to second him? Does he not avail himself
of the weight of the atmosphere in aid of the steam-engine, as I avail myself of its humidity
in aid of the plough? Did he create the laws of gravitation, of correlation of forces, of affinities?"

The RAW-MATERIALIST: "Come, let the wool go too. But coal is assuredly the work, and the exclusive
work, of Nature, unaided by any human labor."

The PROTECTIONIST: "Yes, Nature made coal, but labor makes its value. Coal had no value during
the thousands of years during which it was hidden, unknown, a hundred feet below the soil.
It was necessary to look for it there--that is a labor: it was necessary to transport it to
market; that is another labor: and once more, the price which you pay for it in the market
is nothing else than the remuneration for these labors of digging and transportation."

It will be urged that it is of more advantage to a nation to import the materials called raw,
whether they are or are not the product of labor, and to export manufactured articles.

This is a strongly accredited opinion.

"The more abundant raw materials are," said the petition from Bordeaux, "the more manufactories
are multiplied and extended." It said again, that "raw material opens an unlimited field of
labor to the inhabitants of the country from which it is imported."

"Raw material," said the other petition, that from Havre, "being the aliment of labor, must
be submitted to a different system, and admitted at once at the lowest duty." The same petition
would have the protection on manufactured articles reduced, not one after another, but at an
undetermined time; not to the lowest duty, but to twenty per cent.

"Among other articles which necessity requires to be abundant and cheap," said the third petition,
that from Lyons, "the manufacturers name all raw material."

This all rests on an illusion. We have seen that all value represents labor. Now, it is true
that labor increases ten-fold, sometimes a hundred-fold, the value of a rough product, that
is to say, expands ten-fold, a hundred-fold, the products of a nation. Thence it is reasoned,
"The production of a bale of cotton causes workmen of all classes to earn one hundred dollars
only. The conversion of this bale into lace collars raises their profits to ten thousand dollars;
and will you dare to say that the nation is not more interested in encouraging labor worth
ten thousand than that worth one hundred dollars?"

We forget that international exchanges, no more than individual exchanges, work by weight or
measure. We do not exchange a bale of cotton for a bale of lace collars, nor a pound of wool
in the grease for a pound of wool in cashmere; but a certain value of one of these things for
an equal value of the other. Now to barter equal value against equal value is to barter equal
work against equal work. It is not true, then, that the nation which gives for a hundred dollars
cashmere or collars, gains more than the nation which delivers for a hundred dollars wool or
cotton.

In a country where no law can be adopted, no impost established, without the consent of those
whom this law is to govern, the public cannot be robbed without being first deceived. Our ignorance
is the "raw material" of all extortion which is practised upon us, and we may be sure in advance
that every sophism is the forerunner of a spoliation. Good public, when you see a sophism,
clap your hand on your pocket; for that is certainly the point at which it aims. What was the
secret thought which the shipowners of Bordeaux and of Havre, and the manufacturers of Lyons,
conceived in this distinction between agricultural products and manufactured articles?

"It is principally in this first class (that which comprehends raw material unmodified by human
labor)," said the Raw-Materialists of Bordeaux, "that the chief aliment of our merchant marine
is found. At the outset, a wise economy would require that this class should not be taxed.
The second (articles which have received some preparation) may be charged; the third (articles
on which no more work has to be done) we consider the most taxable."

"Consider," said those of Havre, "that it is indispensable to reduce all raw materials one
after another to the lowest rate, in order that industry may successively bring into operation
the naval forces which will furnish to it its first and indispensable means of labor." The
manufacturers could not in exchange of politeness be behind the ship-owners; so the petition
from Lyons demanded the free introduction of raw material, "in order to prove," said they,
"that the interests of manufacturing towns are not always opposed to those of maritime ones!"

True; but it must be said that both interests were, understood as the petitioners understood
them, terribly opposed to the interests of the country, of agriculture, and of consumers.

See, then, where you would come out! See the end of these subtle economical distinctions! You
would legislate against allowing perfected produce to traverse the ocean, in order that the
much more expensive transportation of rough materials, dirty, loaded with waste matter, may
offer more employment to our merchant service, and put our naval force into wider operation.
This is what these petitioners termed a wise economy. Why did they not demand that the firs
of Russia should be brought to them with their branches, bark, and roots; the gold of California
in its mineral state, and the hides from Buenos Ayres still attached to the bones of the tainted
skeleton?

Industry, the navy, labor, have for their end, the general good, the public good. To create
a useless industry, in order to favor superfluous transportation; to feed superfluous labor,
not for the good of the public, but for the expense of the public--this is to realize a veritable
begging the question. Work, in itself, is not a desirable thing; its result is; all work without
result is a loss. To pay sailors for carrying useless waste matter across the sea is like paying
them for skipping stones across the surface of the water. So we arrive at this result: that
all economical sophisms, despite their infinite variety, have this in common, that they confound
the means with the end, and develop one at the expense of the other.

CHAPTER XXII.

METAPHORS.

Sometimes a sophism dilates itself, and penetrates through the whole extent of a long and heavy
theory. More frequently it is compressed, contracted, becomes a principle, and is completely
covered by a word. A good man once said: "God protect us from the devil and from metaphors!"
In truth, it would be difficult to say which of the two creates the more evil upon our planet.
It is the demon, say you; he alone, so long as we live, puts the spirit of spoliation in our
hearts. Yes; but he does not prevent the repression of abuses by the resistance of those who
suffer from them. Sophistry paralyzes this resistance. The sword which malice puts in the assailant's
hand would be powerless, if sophistry did not break the shield upon the arm of the assailed;
and it is with good reason that Malebranche has inscribed at the opening of his book, "Error
is the cause of human misery."

See how it comes to pass. Ambitious hypocrites will have some sinister purpose; for example,
sowing national hatred in the public mind. This fatal germ may develop, lead to general conflagration,
arrest civilization, pour out torrents of blood, draw upon the land the most terrible of scourges--invasion.
In every case of indulgence in such sentiments of hatred they lower us in the opinion of nations,
and compel those Americans, who have retained some love of justice, to blush for their country.
Certainly these are great evils; and in order that the public should protect itself from the
guidance of those who would lead it into such risks, it is only necessary to give it a clear
view of them. How do they succeed in veiling it from them? It is by metaphor. They alter, they
force, they deprave the meaning of three or four words, and all is done.

Such a word is invasion itself. An owner of an American furnace says, "Preserve us from the
invasion of English iron." An English landlord exclaims, "Let us repel the invasion of American
wheat!" And so they propose to erect barriers between the two nations. "Suppose it does," say
the two sophists; "is it not better to expose ourselves to the chance of an eventual invasion,
than to accept a certain one?" And the people still believe, and the barriers still remain.

Yet what analogy is there between an exchange and an invasion? What resemblance can possibly
be established between a vessel of war, which comes to pour fire, shot, and devastation into
our cities, and a merchant ship, which comes to offer to barter with us freely, voluntarily,
commodity for commodity?

As much may be said of the word inundation. This word is generally taken in bad part, because
inundations often ravage fields and crops. If, however, they deposit upon the soil a greater
value than that which they take from it; as is the case in the inundations of the Nile, we
might bless and deify them as the Egyptians do. Well! before declaiming against the inundation
of foreign produces, before opposing to them restraining and costly obstacles, let us inquire
if they are the inundations which ravage or those which fertilize? What should we think of
Mehemet Ali, if, instead of building, at great expense, dams across the Nile for the purpose
of extending its field of inundation, he should expend his money in digging for it a deeper
bed, so that Egypt should not be defiled by this foreign slime, brought down from the Mountains
of the Moon? We exhibit precisely the same amount of reason, when we wish, by the expenditure
of millions, to preserve our country--From what? The advantages with which Nature has endowed
other climates.

Among the metaphors which conceal an injurious theory, none is more common than that embodied
in the words tribute, tributary.

These words are so much used that they have become synonymous with the words purchase, purchaser,
and one is used indifferently for the other.

Yet a tribute or tax differs as much from purchase as a theft from an exchange, and we should
like quite as well to hear it said, "Dick Turpin has broken open my safe, and has purchased
out of it a thousand dollars," as we do to have it remarked by our sage representatives, "We
have paid to England the tribute for a thousand gross of knives which she has sold to us."

For the reason why Turpin's act is not a purchase is, that he has not paid into my safe, with
my consent, value equivalent to what he has taken from it, and the reason why the payment of
five hundred thousand dollars, which we have made to England, is not a tribute, is simply because
she has not received them gratuitously, but in exchange for the delivery to us of a thousand
gross of knives, which we ourselves have judged worth five hundred thousand dollars.

But is it necessary to take up seriously such abuses of language? Why not, when they are seriously
paraded in newspapers and in books? He cites several examples. He should have added the word
tributary to his vocabulary. In effect the question is, are purchases made abroad useful or
injurious? "They are injurious," you say. And why? "Because they make us tributary to the foreigner."
Here is certainly a word which presents as a fact that which is a question.

How is this abusive trope introduced into the rhetoric of monopolists?

Some specie goes out of a country to satisfy the rapacity of a victorious enemy--other specie,
also, goes out of a country to settle an account for merchandise. The analogy between the two
cases is established, by taking account of the one point in which they resemble one another,
and leaving out of view that in which they differ.

This circumstance, however,--that is to say, non-reimbursement in the one case, and reimbursement
freely agreed upon in the other--establishes such a difference between them, that it is not
possible to class them under the same title. To deliver a hundred dollars by compulsion to
him who says "Stand and deliver," or voluntarily to pay the same sum to him who sells you the
object of your wishes--truly, these are things which cannot be made to assimilate. As well
might you say, it is a matter of indifference whether you throw bread into the river or eat
it, because in either case it is bread destroyed. The fault of this reasoning, as in that which
the word tribute is made to imply, consists in founding an exact similitude between two cases
on their points of resemblance, and omitting those of difference.

CHAPTER XXIII.

CONCLUSION. It is not because we do not recognize the fault of this plan, or rather of this
absence of plan. To attack, one by one, so many incoherent sophisms which sometimes clash,
although more frequently one runs into the other, is to condemn one's self to a disorderly,
capricious struggle, and to expose one's self to perpetual repetitions.

How much we should prefer to say simply how things are, without occupying ourselves with the
thousand aspects in which the ignorant see them! To explain the laws under which societies
prosper or decay, is virtually to destroy all sophistry at once. When La Place had described
all that can, as yet, be known of the movements of the heavenly bodies, he had dispersed, without
even naming them, all the astrological dreams of the Egyptians, Greeks, and Hindoos, much more
surely than he could have done by directly refuting them through innumerable volumes. Truth
is one; the book which exposes it is an imposing and durable monument:

     Il brave les tyrans avides,
     Plus hardi que les Pyramides
     Et plus durable que l'airain.

Error is manifold, and of ephemeral duration; the work which combats it does not carry within
itself a principle of greatness or of endurance.

But if the power, and perhaps the opportunity, have failed us for proceeding in the manner
of La Place and of Say, we cannot refuse to believe that the form which we have adopted has,
also, its modest utility. It appears to us especially well suited to the wants of the age,
to the hurried moments which it can consecrate to study.

A treatise has, doubtless, an incontestable superiority; but upon condition that it be read,
meditated upon, searched into. It addresses itself to a select public only. Its mission is,
at first, to fix, and afterwards to enlarge, the circle of acquired knowledge.

The refutation of vulgar prejudices could not carry with it this high bearing. It aspires only
to disencumber the route before the march of truth, to prepare the mind, to reform public opinion,
to blunt dangerous tools in improper hands. It is in social economy above all, that these hand-to-hand
struggles, these constantly recurring combats with popular errors, have a true practical utility.

We might arrange the sciences under two classes. The one, strictly, can be known to philosophers
only. They are those whose application demands a special occupation. The public profit by their
labor, despite their ignorance of them. They do not enjoy the use of a watch the less, because
they do not understand mechanics and astronomy. They are not the less carried along by the
locomotive and the steamboat through their faith in the engineer and the pilot. We walk according
to the laws of equilibrium without being acquainted with them.

But there are sciences which exercise upon the public an influence proportionate with the light
of the public itself, not from knowledge accumulated in a few exceptional heads, but from that
which is diffused through the general understanding. Such are morals, hygiene, social economy,
and in countries which men belong to themselves, politics. It is of these sciences, above all,
that Bentham might have said: "That which spreads them is worth more than that which advances
them." Of what consequence is it that a great man, a God even, should have promulgated moral
laws, so long as men, imbued with false notions, take virtues for vices, and vices for virtues?
Of what value is it that Smith, Say, and, according to Chamans, economists of all schools,
have proclaimed the superiority of liberty to restraint in commercial transactions, if those
who make the laws and those for whom the laws are made, are convinced to the contrary.

These sciences, which are well named social, have this peculiarity: that for the very reason
that they are of a general application, no one confesses himself ignorant of them. Do we wish
to decide a question in chemistry or geometry? No one pretends to have the knowledge instinctively;
we are not ashamed to consult Draper; we make no difficulty about referring to Euclid.

But in social science authority is but little recognized. As such a one has to do daily with
morals, good or bad, with hygiene, with economy, with politics reasonable or absurd, each one
considers himself skilled to comment, discuss, decide, and dogmatize in these matters.

Are you ill? There is no good nurse who does not tell you, at the first moment, the cause and
cure of your malady.

"They are humors," affirms she; "you must be purged."

But what are humors? and are these humors?

She does not trouble herself about that. I involuntarily think of this good nurse when I hear
all social evils explained by these common phrases: "It is the superabundance of products,
the tyranny of capital, industrial plethora," and other idle stories of which we cannot even
say: verba et voces prætereaque nihil: for they are also fatal mistakes.

From what precedes, two things result--

1st. That the social sciences must abound in sophistry much more than the other sciences, because
in them each one consults his own judgment or instinct alone.

2d. That in these sciences sophistry is especially injurious, because it misleads public opinion
where opinion is a power--that is, law.

Two sorts of books, then, are required by these sciences; those which expound them, and those
which propagate them; those which show the truth, and those which combat error.

It appears to us that the inherent defect in the form of this little Essay--repetition--is
that which constitutes its principal value.

In the question we have treated, each sophism has, doubtless, its own set form, and its own
range, but all have one common root, which is, "forgetfulness of the interests of man, insomuch
as they forget the interests of consumers." To show that the thousand roads of error conduct
to this generating sophism, is to teach the public to recognize it, to appreciate it--to distrust
it under all circumstances.

After all, we do not aspire to arouse convictions, but doubts.

We have no expectation that in laying down the book, the reader shall exclaim: "I know." Please
Heaven he may be induced to say, "I am ignorant."

"I am ignorant, for I begin to believe there is something delusive in the sweets of Scarcity."

"I am no longer so much edified by the charms of Obstruction."

"Effort without Result no longer seems to me so desirable as Result without Effort."

"It may probably be true that the secret of commerce does not consist, as that of arms does,
in giving and not receiving, according to the definition which the duellist in the play gives
of it."

"I consider an article is increased in value by passing through several processes of manufacture;
but, in exchange, do two equal values cease to be equal because the one comes from the plough
and the other from the power-loom?"

"I confess that I begin to think it singular that humanity should be ameliorated by shackles,
or enriched by taxes: and, frankly, I should be relieved of a heavy weight, I should experience
a pure joy, if I could see demonstrated, which the author assures us of, that there is no incompatibility
between comfort and justice, between peace and liberty, between the extension of labor and
the progress of intelligence."

"So, without feeling satisfied by his arguments, to which I do not know whether to give the
name of reasoning or of objections, I will interrogate the masters of the science."

Let us terminate by a last and important observation this monograph of sophisms. The world
does not know, as it ought, the influence which sophistry exerts upon it. If we must say what
we think, when the Right of the Strongest was dethroned, sophistry placed the empire in the
Right of the Most Cunning; and it would be difficult to say which of these two tyrants has
been the more fatal to humanity.

Men have an immoderate love for pleasure, influence, position, power--in one word, for wealth.

And at the same time men are impelled by a powerful impulse to procure these things at the
expense of another. But this other, which is the public, has an inclination not less strong
to keep what it has acquired, provided it can and knows how. Spoliation, which plays so large
a part in the affairs of the world, has, then, two agents only: Strength and Cunning; and two
limits: Courage and Right.

Power applied to spoliation forms the groundwork of human savagism.

Is that to say that they are no longer despoiled? By no means; they are robbed as much as ever,
and, what is more, they despoil one another. The agent alone is changed; it is no longer by
violence, but by stratagem, that the public wealth is seized upon.

In order to rob the public, it must be deceived. To deceive it, is to persuade it that it is
robbed for its own advantage; it is to make it accept fictitious services, and often worse,
in exchange for its property. Hence sophistry, economical sophistry, political sophistry, and
financial sophistry--and, since force is held in check, sophistry is not only an evil, it is
the parent of other evils. So it becomes necessary to hold it in check, in its turn, and for
this purpose to render the public more acute than the cunning; just as it has become more peaceful
than the strong.

