It was then that Elizabeth first heard the whole story of her husband's sojourn at the monastery.
She had never known more than the bare facts before; and she listened with a new comprehension
of his character, as he told her of the days of listless anguish spent after his illness at
San Stefano, and of the hopelessness from which her own words and looks aroused him. He spoke
much, also, of Dino and of Padre Cristoforo and the kindly monks: and in the sunny stillness
of an early Italian morning they went to the churchyard to look for Dino's grave.

They would not have found it but for the help of a monk who chanced to be in the neighbourhood.
He led them courteously to the spot. It was unmarked by any stone, but a wreath of flowers
had been laid upon it that morning, and the grassy mound showed signs of constant care. Brian
and Elizabeth stood silently beside it; they did not move until the monk addressed them. And
then Brian saw that Father Cristoforo was standing at their side.

"He sleeps well," he said. "You need not mourn for him."

"Yes, he sleeps," answered Brian, a little bitterly. "But we have lost him."

"Do I not know that as well as you? Do I not grieve for him?" said the old man, with a deep
sigh. "I have more reason to grieve than you. I have never yet told you how he died. Come with
me and I will let you hear."

They followed him to the guest-room of the monastery, and there, whilst they waited for him
to speak, he threw back his cowl and fixed his eyes on Elizabeth's fair face.

"It was for your sake," he said, "for your sake, in part, that Dino left his duty to the Church
undone. It was your face, signora, that came, as he told me, between him and his prayers. I
am glad that I have seen you before I die."

He spoke mournfully, yet meditatively--more as if he was talking to himself than to her. Elizabeth
shrank back a little, and Brian uttered a quick exclamation.

"Her face?" he said. "Father, what does this mean?"

The monk gave a start, and seemed to rouse himself from a dream.

"Pardon me," he said, gently; "I am growing an old man, and I have had much to bear. I spoke
without thought. Let me tell you the story of Dino's death."

As far as he knew it, as far as he guessed it, he told the story. And when Brian uttered some
strong ejaculation of anger and grief at its details, Father Cristoforo bowed his head upon
his breast, folded his hands, and sighed.

"I was wrong," he said. "You do well to rebuke me, my son; for I was wrong."

"You were hard, you were cruel," said Brian, vehemently.

"Yes, I was hard; I was cruel. But I am punished. The light of my eyes has been taken from
me. I have lost the son that I loved."

"You will see him again," said Elizabeth, softly. "You will go to him some day."

"The saints grant it. I fear that I may not be worthy. To him the high places will be given;
to me--to me----But he will pray for me."

Elizabeth's eyes filled with tears as she looked at him. The old man's form was bent; his face
was shrunken, his eyes were dim. As she rightly guessed, it was the sorrow of Dino's death
that had aged him in this way.

Brian spoke next.

"Tell me," he said, "tell me for the last time, father, what you believe to have been the truth
of the story. Did Vincenza change the children, or did she not?"

"My son," said the old monk, "a few months--nay, a few weeks ago, I said to myself that I would
never answer that question. But life is slipping away from me; and I cannot leave the world
with even the shadow of a lie upon my lips. When I sent Dino to England, I believed that Vincenza
had done this thing. When Dino returned to us, I still believed that he was Mrs. Luttrell's
son. But since our Dino's death, I have had a message--a solemn message--from the persons who
saw Vincenza die. She had charged them with her last breath to tell me that the story was false--that
the children were never changed at all. It was Mrs. Luttrell's delusion that suggested the
plan to her. She hoped that she might make money by declaring that you were her son, and Dino,
Mrs. Luttrell's. She swore on her death-bed that Dino was her child, and that it was Lippo
Vasari who was buried in the churchyard of San Stefano."

"Which story are we to believe?" said Brian, almost doubtingly.

"The evidence is pretty evenly balanced," replied the Prior. "Believe the one that suits you best."

Brian did not answer; he stood for a moment with his head bent and his eyes fixed on the ground.
"To think," he said at last, "of the misery that we have suffered through--a lie!" Then he
looked up, and met Elizabeth's eyes. "You are right," he said, as if answering some unspoken
comment, "I have no reason to complain. I found Dino--and I found you; a friend and a wife--I
thank God for them both."

He took her hand in his, and his face was lit up with the look of love that was henceforth,
as hitherto, to make the happiness of his life and hers.

And when they went forth from the monastery doors it seemed to them a good omen that the last
words echoing in their ears were those of the old monk's farewell salutation:--

"Go in peace!"

THE END.

BOOKS TO READ.

CANADIAN COPYRIGHT SERIES.

15. Little Lord Fauntleroy. By Frances H. Burnett

16. The Frozen Pirate. By W. Clark Russell

17. Jo's Boys, and How They Turned Out. By Louisa M. Alcott

18. Saddle and Sabre. By Hawley Smart

19. A Prince of the Blood. By James Payn

20. An Algonquin Maiden. By G. Mercer Adam and A. Ethelwyn Wetherald

21. One Traveller Returns. By David Christie Murray and H. Hermann

22. Stained Pages; The Story of Anthony Grace. By G. Manville Fenn

23. Lieutenant Barnabas. By Frank Barrett

24. The Nun's Curse. By Mrs. J. H. Riddell

25. The Twin Soul. By Charles Mackay

26. One Maid's Mischief. By G. M. Fenn

27. A Modern Magician. By J. F. Molloy

28. A House of Tears. By E. Downey

29. Sara Crewe and Editha's Burglar. By Frances H. Burnett

30. The Abbey Murder. By Joseph Hatton

31. The Argonauts of North Liberty. By Bret Harte

32. Cradled in a Storm. By T. A. Sharp

33. A Woman's Face. By Florence Warden

34. Miracle Gold. By Richard Dowling

35. Molloy's Story. By Frank Merryfield

36. The Fortunes of Philippa Fairfax. By Frances H. Burnett

37. The Silent Shore, or The Mystery of St James' Park. By John Bloundelle-Burton

38. Eve. By S. Baring Gould

39. Doctor Glennie's Daughter. By B. L. Farjeon

40. The Case of Doctor Plemen. By Rene de Pont-Jest

41. Bewitching Iza. By Alexis Bouvier

42. A Wily Widow. By Alexis Bouvier

43. Diana Barrington. By Mrs. John Croker

44. The Ironmaster, or Love and Pride. By Georges Ohnet

45. A Mere Child. By L. B. Walford

46. Black Blood. By Geo. M. Fenn

47. The Dream. By Emile Zola

48. A Strange Message. By Dora Russell

       *       *       *       *       *

The original book does not have a Table of Contents. One was added for the reader's convenience.