Perhaps the two points of this Autobiography which will most attract the attention of the reader
are the author's imprisonment for a libel on the Prince Regent, and his visit to Italy. In
that imprisonment of two years, he was visited by Byron, Moore, Brougham, Bentham, and several
other eminent men. In the journey to Italy, which was undertaken in order to coöperate with
Byron and Shelley in bringing out of the "Liberal," Hunt had the misfortune to be deprived
of Shelley's friendship, by death, immediately on his arrival; and of the friendship of Byron,
through incompatibilities of taste, and the jealous officiousness of Byron's friends, amongst
whom Moore bore a prominent part. Mr. Hunt published a volume on the subject soon after his
return to England, which occasioned him a great deal of ill-will. To this publication he now
refers with expressions of much regret, and with the calmness which has been produced by time.
But it cannot be denied that he endured most mortifying and irritating provocations, which
never could have taken place had Shelley lived. We are glad that he has had an opportunity
of leaving a generous and forgiving record of this remarkable portion of his life; and certainly
nothing can be more delightful than his present account of it:--

    "The greatest comfort I experienced," he says, "in Italy
    was living in the same neighborhood, and thinking, as I went
    about, of Boccaccio. Boccaccio's father had a house at Maiano,
    supposed to have been situated at the Fiesolan extremity of
    the hamlet. That merry-hearted writer was so fond of the place
    that he has not only laid the two scenes of the 'Decameron' on
    each side of it, with the valley which his company resorted
    to in the middle, but has made the two little streams which
    embrace Maiano, the Affrico and the Mensola, the hero and the
    heroine of his 'Nimphale Fiesolano.' The scene of another of
    his works is on the banks of the Margnone, a river a little
    distant; and the 'Decameron' is full of the neighboring
    villages. Out of the windows of one side of our house we saw
    the turret of the Villa Gherardi, to which, according to
    his biographers, his 'joyous company' resorted in the first
    instance. The house is still in possession of the family. From
    our windows on the other side we saw, close to us, the Fiesole
    of antiquity and of Milton, the site of the Boccaccio-house
    before mentioned; still closer, the Decameron's Valley of
    Ladies at our feet; and we looked over toward the quarter
    of the Mignone and of a house of Dante, and in the distance
    beheld the mountains of Pistria. Lastly, from the terrace in
    front, Florence lay clear and cathedraled before us, with the
    scene of Redi's Bacchus rising on the other side of it, and
    the villa of Arcetri, famous for Galileo. Hazlitt, who came to
    see me there, beheld the scene around us with the admiration
    natural to a lover of old folios and great names, and
    confessed, in the language of Burns, that it was a sight to
    enrich the eyes.

    "My daily walk was to Fiesole, through a path skirted with
    wild myrtle and cyclamen; and I stopped at the door of the
    Doccia, and sate on the pretty melancholy platform behind it,
    reading, or looking down to Florence."

This is all very charming, yet hear what the author says further:--

