A moderate dip into statistics can no longer be evaded. We must map out the microcosm, and
allot to each sovereign power its quota of the surface. The great European states which have
assumed within the century the supreme direction of human affairs are assigned a prominent
central position in the Main Building. Great Britain and her Asiatic possessions occupy just
eighty-three feet less than a hundred thousand; her other colonies, including Canada, 48,150;
France and her colonies, 43,314; Germany, 27,975; Austria, 24,070; Russia, 11,002; Spain, 11,253;
Sweden and Belgium, each 15,358; Norway, 6897; Italy, 8167; Japan, 16,566; Switzerland, 6646;
China, 7504; Brazil, 6397; Egypt, 5146; Mexico, 6504; Turkey, 4805; Denmark, 1462; and Tunis,
2015. These, with minor apportionments to Venezuela, the Argentine Confederation, Chili, Peru
and the Orange Free State of South Africa, cover the original area of the structure, deducting
the reservation of 187,705 feet for the United States, and excluding thirty-eight thousand
square feet in the annexes. France must be credited, in explanation of her comparatively limited
territory under the main roof, with her external pavilions devoted to bronzes, glass, perfumery
and (chief of all) to her magnificent government exhibit of technical plans, drawings and models
in engineering, civil and military, and architecture. These outside contributions constitute
a link between her more substantial displays and the five hundred paintings, fifty statues,
etc. she places in Memorial Hall.

In Machinery and Agricultural Halls, respectively, Great Britain has 37,125 and 18,745 feet;
Germany, 10,757 and 4875; France, 10,139 and 15,574; Belgium, 9375 and 1851; Canada, 4300 and
10,094; Brazil, 4000 and 4657; Sweden, 3168 and 2603; Spain, 2248 and 5005; Russia, 1500 and
6785; Chili, 480 and 2493; Norway, 360 and 1590. Austria occupies 1536 feet in Mechanical Hall;
and in that of Agriculture are the following additional allotments: Netherlands, 4276; Denmark,
836; Japan, 1665; Peru, 1632; Liberia, 1536; Siam, 1220; Portugal, 1020.

The foreign contributions in the department of machinery are, it will be seen, hardly so large
as might have been anticipated. When the spacious annexes are added to the floor of the main
hall, the great preponderance of home exhibitors--five to one in the latter--is shown to be
still more marked. In Agricultural Hall the United States claim less than two-thirds. The unexpected
interest taken in this branch by foreigners will enhance its prominence and value among the
attractions of the exposition. The collection of tropical products for food and manufacturing
is very complete. The development of the equatorial regions of the globe has barely commenced.
Even our acquaintance with their natural resources remains but superficial. The country which
takes the lead in utilizing them in its trade and manufactures will gain a great advantage
over its fellows. England's commercial supremacy never rested more largely on that foundation
than now. Brazil, the great power of South--as the Union is of North--America, possesses nearly
half of the accessible virgin territory of the tropics. Our interest joins hers in retaining
this vast endowment as far as possible for the benefit of the Western World. A perception of
this fact is shown in the exceptional efforts made by Brazil to be fully represented in all
departments of the exposition, and in the visit to it of her chief magistrate, as we may properly
term her emperor, the only embodiment of hereditary power and the monarchical principle in
a country that enjoys--and has for the half century since its erection into an independent
state maintained--free institutions.

In art domestic exhibits utterly lose their preponderance. Our artists content themselves with
a small fraction of the wall- and floor-space in Memorial Hall and its northern annex. In extent
of both "hanging" and standing ground they but equal England and France, each occupying something
over twenty thousand square feet. Italy in the æsthetic combat selects the chisel as her weapon,
and takes the floor with a superb array of marble eloquence, some three hundred pieces of statuary
being contributed by her sculptors. She might in addition set up a colorable claim to the works
executed on her soil or under the teaching of her schools by artists of other nativities, and
thus make, for example, a sweeping raid into American territory. But she generously leaves
to that division the spoils swept from her coasts by the U.S. ship Franklin, together with
the works bearing her imprint in other sections, satisfied with the wealth undoubtedly her
own, itself but a faint adumbration of the vast hoard she retains at home. Italy does not view
the occasion from a fine-art standpoint alone. Of her nine hundred and twenty-six exhibitors,
only one-sixth are in this department.

Nor, on the art side of our own country, must we overlook the Historical division, the perfecting
of which has been a labor of love with Mr. Etting. He allots space among the old Thirteen,
and reserves a place at the feast of reunion to the mother of that rebellious sisterhood.

Forty acres of "floor-space" sub Jove remained to be awarded to foreign and domestic claimants.
Gardening is one of the fine arts. Certainly nothing in Memorial Hall can excel its productions
in richness, variety and harmony of color and form. Flower, leaf and tree are the models of
the palette and the crayon. Their marvelous improvement in variety and splendor is one of the
most striking triumphs of human ingenuity. A few hundred species have been expanded into many
thousand forms, each finer than the parent. It is a new flora created by civilization, undreamed
of by the savage, and voluminous in proportion to the mental advancement of the races among
whom it has sprung up. Progress writes its record in flowers, and scrawls the autographs of
the nations all over Lansdowne hill. No need of gilded show-cases to set off the German and
Germantown roses, the thirty thousand hyacinths in another compartment, or the plot of seven
hundred and fifty kinds of trees and shrubs planted by a single American contributor. The Moorish
Kiosque, however, comes in well. The material is genuine Morocco, the building having been
brought over in pieces from the realm of the Saracens, of "gul in its bloom" and of "Larry
O'Rourke"--as Rogers punned down the poem of his Irish friend.

The nations comfortably installed, we must sketch the tactical system under which they are
drawn up for peaceful contest. The classification of subjects adopted by the Commission embraces
seven departments. Of these, the Main Building is devoted to I. Mining and Metallurgy; II.
Manufactures; III. Education and Science; Memorial Hall and its appendages, to IV. Art; Machinery
Hall, to V. Machinery; Agricultural Hall, to VI. Agriculture; and Horticultural Hall and its
parterres, to VII. Horticulture. These habitats have, as we have heretofore seen, proved too
contracted for the august and expansive inmates assigned them. All of the latter have overflowed;
mining, for instance, into the mineral annex of thirty-two thousand square feet and the great
pavilion (a hundred and thirty-five feet square) of Colorado and Kansas; education into the
Swedish and Pennsylvania school-houses and others already noted; manufactures into breweries,
glass-houses, etc.; and so on with an infinity of irrepressible outgrowths.

Department I. is subdivided into classes numbered from 100 to 129, and embracing the products
of mines and the means of extracting and reducing them. II. extends from Class 200 to Class
296--chemical manufactures, ceramics, furniture, woven goods of all kinds, jewelry, paper,
stationery, weapons, medical appliances, hardware, vehicles and their accessories. III. deals
with the high province of educational systems, methods and libraries; institutions and organizations;
scientific and philosophical instruments and methods; engineering, architecture in its technical
and non-æsthetic aspect, maps; physical, moral and social condition of man. Fifty classes,
300 to 349 inclusive, fence in this field of pure reason. Department IV., Classes 400-459,
covers sculpture, painting, photography, engraving and lithography, industrial and architectural
designs, ceramic decorations, mosaics, etc. V., Classes 509-599, takes charge of machines and
tools for mining, chemistry, weaving, sewing, printing, working metal, wood and stone; motors;
hydraulic and pneumatic apparatus; railway stock or "plant;" machinery for preparing agricultural
products; "aërial, pneumatic and water transportation," and "machinery and apparatus especially
adapted to the requirements of the exhibition." VI., Classes 600-699, assembles arboriculture
and forest products, pomology, agricultural products, land and marine animals, pisciculture
and its apparatus, "animal and vegetable products," textile substances, machines, implements
and products of manufacture, agricultural engineering and administration, tillage and general
management. Under Department VII., Classes 700-739, come ornamental trees, shrubs and flowers,
hothouses and conservatories, garden tools and contrivances, garden designing, construction
and management.

The accumulated experience of past expositions, seconded by the judgment and systematic thoroughness
apparent in the preparations for the present one, makes this a good "working" classification.
It has done away with confusion to an extent hardly to have been hoped for, and all the thousands
of objects and subjects have dropped into their places in the exhibition with the precision
of machinery, little adapted as some of them are to such treatment. Very impalpable and elusive
things had to submit themselves to inspection and analysis, and have their elements tabulated
like a tax bill or a grocery account. All human concerns were called on to be listed on the
muster-roll and stand shoulder to shoulder on the drill-ground. Some curious comrades appear
side by side in the long line. For example, we read: Class 286, brushes; 295, sleighs; 300,
elementary instruction; 301, academies and high schools, colleges and universities; 305, libraries,
history, etc.; 306, school-books, general and miscellaneous literature, encyclopædias, newspapers;
311, learned and scientific associations, artistic, biological, zoological and medical schools,
astronomical observatories; 313, music and the drama. Then we find, closely sandwiched between,
335--topographical maps, etc.--and 400--figures in stone, metal, clay or plaster--340, physical
development and condition (of the young of the genus Homo); 345, government and law; 346, benevolence,
beginning with hospitals of all kinds and ending with--in the order we give them--emigrant-aid
societies, treatment of aborigines and prevention of cruelty to animals! In the last-named
subdivision the visitor will be stared out of countenance by Mr. Bergh's tremendous exposure
of "various instruments used by persons in breaking the law relative to cruelty to animals,"
the glittering banner of the S.P.C.A., and its big trophy, eight yards square, that illuminates
the east end of the north avenue of the Main Building, in opposition to the trophy at the other
end of the same avenue illustrating the history of the American flag. But he will look in vain
for selected specimens of the emigrant-runner, the luxuries of the steerage and Castle Garden,
or for photographs of the well-fed post-trader and Indian agent, agricultural products from
Captain Jack's lava-bed reservation and jars of semi-putrescent treaty-beef. He will alight,
next door to the penniless immigrant, the red man and the omnibus-horse, on Class 348, religious
organizations and systems, embracing everything that grows out of man's sense of responsibility
to his Maker. It will perhaps occur to the observer that, though the juxtaposition is well
enough, religion ought to have come in a little before. His surprise at the power of condensation
shown in compressing eternity into a single class will not be lessened when he passes on to
Class 632, sheep; 634, swine; and 636, dogs and cats!

A glance over the classification-list assists us in recognizing the advantages of the system
of awards framed by the Commission and adopted after patient study and discussion. It discards
the plan--if plan it could be called--of scattering diplomas and medals of gold, silver and
bronze right and left, after the fashion of largesse at a mediæval coronation, heretofore followed
at international expositions. These prizes were decided on and assigned by juries whose impartiality--by
reason of the imperfect representation upon them of the nations which exhibited little in mass
or little in certain classes, and also of their failure to make written reports and thus secure
their responsibility--could not be assured, and whose action, therefore, was defective in real
weight and value. The juries were badly constituted: they had too much to do of an illusory
and useless description, and they had too little to do that was solid and instructive. Special
mentions, diplomas, half a dozen grades of medals and other honors, formed a programme too
large and complicated to be discriminatingly carried out. So it happened that to exhibit and
to get a distinction of some kind came, at Vienna, to be almost convertible expressions; and
who excelled in the competition in any of the classes, or who had contributed anything substantial
to the stock of human knowledge or well-being, remained quite undetermined. What instruction
the display could impart was confined to spectators who studied its specialties for themselves
and used their deductions for their individual advantage, and to those who read the sufficiently
general and cursory reports made to their several governments by the national commissions.
The official awards and reports of the exposition authorities amounted to little or nothing.

A sharp departure from this practice was decided on at the Centennial. Two hundred judges,
of undoubted character and intelligence and entire familiarity with the departments assigned
to them, were chosen--half by the foreign bureaus and half by the U.S. Commission. These were
made officers of the exposition itself, and thus separated from external influences. They were
given a reasonable and fixed compensation of one thousand dollars each for their time and personal
expenses. An equal division of the number of judges between the domestic and foreign sides
gives the latter an excess, measured by the comparative extent of the display from the two
sources. But this is favorable to us, as we shall be the better for an outside judgment on
the merits of both our own and foreign exhibits. Were it otherwise, the excess of private observers
from this country would counterbalance our deficit in judges. The foreign jurors have to see
for the millions they represent. Our own will have vast numbers of their constituents on the
ground.

Written reports are drawn up by these selected examiners and signed by the authors. The reports
must be "based upon inherent and comparative merit. The elements of merit shall be held to
include considerations relating to originality, invention, discovery, utility, quality, skill,
workmanship, fitness for the purpose intended, adaptation to public wants, economy and cost."
Each report, upon its completion, is delivered to the Centennial Commission for award and publication.
The award comes in the shape of a diploma with a bronze medal and a special report of the judges
upon its subject. This report may be published by the exhibitor if he choose. It will also
be used by the Commission in such manner as may best promote the objects of the exposition.
These documents, well edited and put in popular form, will constitute the most valuable publication
that has been produced by any international exhibition. To this we may add the special reports
to be made by the State and foreign commissions. These ought, with the light gained by time,
to be at least not inferior to the similar papers scattered through the bulky records of previous
exhibitions. Let us hope that brevity will rule in the style of all the reports, regular and
irregular. There is a core to every subject, every group of subjects and every group of groups,
however numerous and complex: let all the scribes labor to find it for us. When we recall the
disposition of all committees to select the member most fecund of words to prepare their report,
we are seized with misgivings--a feeling that becomes oppressive as we further reflect that
the local committee which deliberately collected and sent for exhibition eighty thousand manuscripts
written by the school-children of a Western city is at large on the exposition grounds.

The passion for independent effort characteristic of the American people led to the supplementing
of the official list by sundry volunteer prizes. These are offered by associations, and in
some cases individuals. They are not all, like the regular awards, purely honorary. They lean
to the pecuniary form, those particularly which are offered in different branches of agriculture.
Competition among poultry-growers, manufacturers of butter, reaping-and threshing-machines,
cotton-planters, etc. is stimulated by money-prizes reaching in all some six or eight thousand
dollars. Agricultural machinery needs the open field for its proper testing, and cannot operate
satisfactorily in Machinery Hall. Without a sight of our harvest-fields and threshing-floors
foreigners would carry away an incomplete impression of our industrial methods, the farm being
our great factory. The oar, the rifle and the racer are as impatient of walls as the plough
and its new-fangled allies. They demand elbow-room for the display of their powers, and the
Commission was fain to let their votaries tempt it to pass the confines of its territory. The
lusty undergraduates of both sides of Anglo-Saxondom escort it unresistingly down from its
airy halls to the blue bosom of the Schuylkill, while "teams" picked from eighty English-speaking
millions beckon it across the Jerseys to Creedmoor. And the horse--is he to call in vain? Is
a strait-laced negative from the Commission to echo back his neigh? Is the blood of Eclipse
and Godolphin to stagnate under a ticket in "Class 630, horses, asses and mules"? Why, the
very ponies in front of Memorial Hall pull with extra vim against their virago jockeys and
flap their little brass wings in indignation at the thought. The thoroughbred will be heard
from, and the judges that sit on him will be "experts in their department."

Another specimen of the desert-born, the Western Indian, forms an exhibit as little suited
as the improved Arab horse to discussion and award at a session fraught with that "calm contemplation
and poetic ease" which ought to mark the deliberations of the judges. How are the representatives
of fifty-three tribes to be put through their paces? These poor fragments of the ancient population
of the Union have, if we exclude the Cherokees and Choctaws and two or three of the Gila tribes,
literally nothing to show. The latter can present us with a faint trace of the long-faded civilization
of their Aztec kindred, while the former have only borrowed a few of the rudest arts of the
white, and are protected from extinction merely by the barrier of a frontier more and more
violently assailed each year by the speculator and the settler, and already passed by the railway.
If we cannot exactly say that the Indian, alone of all the throng at the exhibition, goes home
uninformed and unenlightened, what ideas may reach his mind will be soon smothered out by the
conditions which surround him on the Plains. It is singular that a population of three or four
hundred thousand, far from contemptible in intellectual power, and belonging to a race which
has shown itself capable of a degree of civilization many of the tribes of the Eastern continents
have never approached, should be so absolutely an industrial cipher. The African even exports
mats, palm-oil and peanuts, but the Indian exports nothing and produces nothing. He lacks the
sense of property, and has no object of acquisition but scalps. Can the assembled ingenuity
of the nineteenth century, in presence of this mass of waste human material, devise no means
of utilizing it? There stands its Frankenstein, ready made, perfect in thews and sinews, perfect
also in many of its nobler parts. It is not a creation that is demanded--simply a remodeling
or expansion. For success in this achievement the United States can afford to offer a pecuniary
prize that will throw into the shade all the other prizes put together. The cost of the Indian
bureau for 1875-76 reached eight millions of dollars. The commission appointed to treat for
the purchase of the Black Hills reports that the feeding and clothing of the Sioux cost the
government thirteen millions during the past seven years; and that without the smallest benefit
to those spirited savages. Says the report: "They have made no advancement whatever, but have
done absolutely nothing but eat, drink, smoke and sleep."

Social and political questions like this point to a vast field of inquiry. For its proper cultivation
the exposition provides data additional to those heretofore available. They should be used
as far as possible upon the spot. At least, they can be examined, collated and prepared for
full employment. To this end, meetings and discussions held by men qualified by intellect and
study to deal with them are the obvious resort. There is room among the two hundred judges
for some such men, but the juries are little more numerous than is required for the examination
of and report on objects. For more abstract inquiries they will need recruits. These should
be supplied by the leading philosophical associations of this country and Europe. The governments
have all an interest in enlisting their aid, and the Centennial Commission has done what in
it lay to promote their action. Ethnic characteristics, history, literature, education, crime,
statistics as a science, hygiene and medicine generally are among the broad themes which are
not apt to be adequately treated by the average committee of inspection. So with the whole
range of the natural sciences. Dissertations based on the jury reports will doubtless be abundant
after a while, but those reports themselves, being limited in scope, will not be as satisfactory
material as that which philosophic specialists would themselves extract from direct observation
and debate upon the ground.

For the study of the commanding subject of education the provision made at the present exhibition
is exceptionally great. In bulk, and probably in completeness, it is immeasurably beyond the
display made on any preceding occasion. The building erected by the single State of Pennsylvania
for her educational department covers ten or eleven thousand square feet, and other States
of the Union make corresponding efforts to show well in the same line. The European nations
all manifest a new interest in this branch, and give it a much more prominent place in their
exhibit than ever before. The school-systems of most of them are of very recent birth, and
do not date back so far as 1851. The kingdom of Italy did not exist at that time or for many
years after, yet we now see it pressing for a foremost place in the race of popular education,
and multiplying its public schools in the face of all the troubles attendant upon the erection
and organization of a new state.

The historian will find aliment less abundant. A century or two of Caucasian life in America
is but a thing of yesterday to him, and, though far from uninstructive, is but an offshoot
from modern European annals. For all that, he finds himself on our soil in presence of an antiquity
which remains to be explored, and which clamors to be rescued from the domain of the pre-historic.
It has no literary records beyond the scant remains of Mexico. It writes itself, nevertheless,
strongly and deeply on the face of the land--in mounds, fortifications and tombs as distinct,
if not so elaborate, as those of Etruria and Cyprus. These remains show the hand of several
successive races. Who they were, what their traits, whence they came, what their relations
with the now civilized Chinese and Japanese--whom, physically, their descendants so nearly
resemble--are legitimate queries for the historian. Geologically, America is older than Europe,
and was fitted for the home of the red man before the latter ceased to be the home of the whale.
The investigation of its past, if impossible to be conducted in the light of its own records
or even traditions, is capable of aiding in the verification of conclusions drawn from those
of the Old World. If History, however, contemptuously relegates the Moundbuilders to the mattock
of the antiquarian, she is still "Philosophy teaching by example." As thus allied with Philosophy,
she finds something to look into at the Centennial, even though she look obliquely, after the
fashion of the observant Hollanders, who have stuck the reflecting glasses of the Dutch street-windows
into the sides of their compartment in the Main Building, and squint, without a change of position,
upon the United States, Spain, South America, Egypt, Great Britain and several other countries.

Religion and philanthropy find the field inviting, and their representatives, individual and
associated, are busy in preparing to till it. The enthusiasm of the leading religious societies
took the concrete shape of statuary. Hence the Catholic Fountain, heretofore noticed; the Hebrew
statue to Religious Liberty, as established in a land that never had a Ghetto or a Judenstrasse;
the Presbyterian figure of Witherspoon; an Episcopalian of Bishop White; and others under way
or proposed. The temperance movement, too, embodies itself in a fountain that runs ice-water
instead of claret. The less tangible but perhaps more fruitful form of reunions and discussions
must in a greater or less degree enhance the power for good of these organizations. They are
led by men of mind and energy, seldom averse to enlightenment, and all professing to seek nothing
else. When men of these qualities, aiming at the same or a like object, meet to compare their
respective admeasurements of its parallax made from as many different points, they cannot fail
to approach accuracy. Faith is a first element in all great undertakings. It removes mountains
at Mont Cenis, as it walked the waves with Columbus. In our century even faith is progressive,
and does not shrink from elbowing its way through what Bunyan would have styled Vanity Fair.

Modestly in the rear of the moral reformers, yet not wholly and uniformly unaggressive, nor
guiltless altogether of isms and schisms, step forward the literary men. As a rule, they do
not affect expositions, or exhibitions of any kind. But one general meeting, with some minor
and informal ones, is on the programme for them. This is well. The world and the fullness thereof
belongs to them, and they may care to come forward to scan this schedule of their inheritance.
We do not hear of their having combined to put up a pavilion of their own, like the dairymen
and the brewers, "to show the different processes of manufacture." The pen will be at work
here, nevertheless, and has been from the beginning, before the foundations of the Corliss
engine were laid or the granite of Memorial Hall left the quarry. Without this first of implements
none of the other machinery would ever have moved. The pen is mightier than the piston. It
is the invisible steam that impels all.

In a visible form also it is here. The publishers of the London Punch have selected as the
most comprehensive motto for the case in which they exhibit copies of their various publications
a sentence from Shakspeare: "Come and take choice of all my library, and so beguile thy sorrow."
We do not know that to dull his sorrows is all that can be done for man. Literature assumes
to do more than make him forget. The lotos-eater is not its one hero. School-books, piled aloft
"in numbers without number numberless," may to the man be suggestive of hours without thought
and void of grief, but they certainly are not to the boy. Blue books, ground out in a thousand
bureaus, and contributed in like profusion, may be pronounced a weariness to the adult flesh,
however sweet their ultimate uses. Unhappy those who wade through them for increasing the happiness
of others! These humble but portly representatives of political literature are the log-books
of the ship of state. They chart and chronicle the currents and winds along its course, so
that from the mass of chaff a grain of guidance may be painfully winnowed out for the benefit
of its next voyage, or for the voyages of other craft floundering on the same perilous and
baffling sea. Everything comes pat to a log-book. As endless is the medley of memoranda in
blue-books. They deal, like government itself, with everything. They take up the citizen on
his entry into the cradle, and do not quite drop him at the grave. How to educate, clothe,
feed and doctor him; how to keep him out of jail, and how, once there, to get him out again
with the least possible moral detriment; how to adjust as lightly as possible to his shoulders
the burden of taxation; how to economize him as food for powder; and how to free him from the
miasm of crowded cities,--are but a small part of their contents. And the index is growing,
if possible, larger, as the apparatus of government becomes more and more intricate. With such
contributions and credentials do the rulers of the nations enroll themselves in the guild of
authorship. They are proud of them, and exhibit them in profusion, in whole libraries, rich
with gold and the primary colors.

