Perhaps I have made too long a story of my second visit to the nailer's cottage. I will merely
add, that it was agreed that I should proceed into the town, a distance of a mile and a half,
to make arrangements for the boy's schooling, and be joined there by him and his father. So,
bidding adieu to the remainder of the family, I continued my walk into the town, of Bromsgrove,
and soon found a kind-hearted school teacher who agreed to take the lad and do his best to
forward his education. Having met several gentlemen in the course of my inquiries, they became
interested in the case, and went with me to the inn, where the lad and his father were waiting
for me. Thence we all proceeded to a clothing shop, where the little nailer was soon fitted
with a warm and decent suit. One of the company, a Baptist minister, to whose congregation
the Schoolmaster belonged, promised to call in and see the boy occasionally, and to let me
know how he gets on. I hope Josiah will soon be able to speak for himself to the children in
"Our School Room." On Monday after Christmas, he made his first entry into any school-room,
for the object of learning to read.

       *       *       *       *       *

A BUDGET FROM THE LITTLE NAILER.

They have come! the long expected letters from "Jemmy Stubbing," or the Nailer Boy. I am sure
they will be a treat to all the children that meet in our School-room. I hope all the benches
will be full whilst Josiah's letters are read. And what a nice thing it was in the children
in America, to take that little fellow out of the cinders and soot of the blacksmith's shop,
and send him to school for two years!

Now many a little boy and girl of our school-room circle has contributed half a dime towards
Josiah's education. I would ask that little boy or girl what he or she would sell out all right
and title to the pleasure and consequence of that act for? What would you take in money down
for your share in the work of expanding that little fellow's mind, and filling it with such
new ideas as he expresses in his letters? What a new world he has lived in since he returned
from school to his little wayside smithy, the roof of which can hardly be seen over the hedge!
Think of it--but you cannot think of it as it is, unless you could see that nailer's shop and
cottage. But think of what he was, when you took him from the anvil and sent him to school.
Then he could not tell a letter of the alphabet, and never would have read a verse in the Bible,
if it had not been for your half dimes. Now see with what delight he searches the scriptures,
and marks and commits to memory choice verses in that Holy Book. He has taught his father to
read it too, and is teaching his sisters, and the children of the neighbors to read it, and
all good books. A great many young boys and girls in England have heard what you did for him,
and some of them are beginning to write to him, and he answers them, and gives them good advice.
The last steamer from England brought us a nice lot of letters from him, some directed to you,
some to me, and one or two to others, I will read them to you in the order in which they are
written.

        BROMSGROVE LICKEY, Dec. 4, 1849.

  My Dear Sir:

  I thought that when I wrote to you again I
  should have a few subscribers for the Citizen. I
  will tell you the reason why I have not got them;
  they are most all primitive methodists. They have
  been trying to scheme them a chapel for this last
  twelve months. They are having tea parties and
  missionary meetings every two or three weeks, so
  they have put me off a little longer. I had a good
  deal on my mind through reading the Citizen. I
  opened my bible at the forty-first chapter of Isaiah
  and at the sixth and seventh verses. He has got a few in
  England and France and America. I thought about
  the Russians, if they would but examine this chapter
  as well as I have, I think they would make away
  with their arms, for the Lord says, them that war
  against thee, they shall be as nothing and as a thing
  of nought. How dare they go to war against their
  Maker. I dare not. I have another word or two to
  say to my young friends in America. The boys
  and girls in England, they are forced to work very
  hard all the week till about middle day on the Saturday,
  and then they get a little time to play while
  their parents go and sell their work. They frequently
  come for me but I am very often forced to
  deny them. I tell them that I have some reading
  and writing to do. Reading and writing must be
  seen to. If that apostle Paul had neglected his
  reading and writing, that jailor would have never,
  perhaps, seen need to have cried out, 'what must I
  do to be saved,' or if Mr. Burritt had neglected his
  reading and writing very likely I should never have
  been able to read or write. Though you are in
  America and I am in England if we put our heads
  to work we dont know what we may do some day.
  It does me good to read that there are so many ladies
  engaged in the work. I have been asked several
  times what was the price of the Citizen, but I have
  not found that out yet. I dont know how you count
  your money. I dont know how much a cent is.
  The first three newspapers that I had, I paid five
  pence each for; but now I get them for twopence
  each. I keep at my old employment. I did not know
  that there was any other country besides England
  till I had the Citizen. While I am hammering away
  with my two hammers my mind is flying all over
  America and Africa and South Carolina and California
  and Francisco and France and Ireland Scotland
  and Wales, and then it comes back to Devonshire,
  then to Mrs. Prideaux, and then to them ladies at
  Bristol, and then to Mr. Fry at London, and what a
  good man he is in the cause.

  I remain your humble servant wish to be a fellow
  laborer, heart and hand.

                                     JOSIAH BANNER.

       *       *       *       *       *

        BROMSGROVE LICKEY, Dec. 28th, 1849.

  MY DEAR SIR:

  I have received your letter with two sovereigns
  on Dec. 26. I dare say my young friends will look
  for something very good from me, but nothing very
  interesting for them at this time. I will tell you
  the reason. The last week before Christmas I was
  working late and early all the week, and at the
  end of the week my foot and hand did ache very
  much. In that week I received a letter of young
  Mr. Fry, a little school boy, and a beautiful letter
  it was. I have read it many a time to the boys and
  girls and I had to write him one back again that
  week, and a few days before I had to write one to
  Mr. Coulton, Superintendent of the Sunday school
  at Norwood. For this two or three last years, I have
  made a practice in going a carol singing on Christmas
  day in the morning and of course they looked
  for me again. So I started out at five o'clock and
  came home at nine, and then I went to school. I
  have never missed going to school on a Sunday for
  this last three years. I always like to be there to
  teach or to be teached. They ask
  of me the ordinances of justice, they take delight in
  approaching to God. Now if all nations would
  act to one another as America does to me, I think
  that better day would soon come. When I sat down
  to write this letter I thought that I would tell my
  young friends how thankful I was to receive their
  Christmas present; but my pen is not able to express
  nor my tongue is not able to confess it.

