THE

STRAND MAGAZINE

An Illustrated Monthly

Vol. 5, Issue. 26.

February 1893

A WEDDING GIFT

(A WIFE'S STORY.)

BY LEONARD OUTRAM.

"I will have you! I will have you! I will! I will! I will!!" I can see his dark face now as
he spoke those words.

I remember noticing how pale his lips were as he hissed out through his clenched teeth: "Though
I had to fight with a hundred men for you--though I had to do murder for your sake, you should
be mine. In spite of your love for him, in spite of your hate for me, in spite of all your
struggles, your tears, your prayers, you shall be mine, mine, only mine!"

I had known Kenneth Moore ever since I was a little child. He had made love to me nearly as
long. People spoke of us as sweethearts, and Kenneth was so confident and persevering that
when my mother died and I found myself without a relative, without a single friend that I really
cared for, I did promise him that I would one day be his wife. But that had scarcely happened,
when Phillip Rutley came to the village and--and everybody knows I fell in love with him.

It seemed like Providence that brought Phillip to me just as I had given a half-consent to
marry a man I had no love for, and with whom I could never have been happy.

I had parted from Kenneth at the front gate, and he had gone off to his home crazy with delight
because at last I had given way.

It was Sunday evening late in November, very dark, very cold, and very foggy. He had brought
me home from church, and he kept me there at the gate pierced through and through by the frost,
and half choked by the stifling river mist, holding my hand in his own and refusing to leave
me until I promised to marry him.

Home was very lonely since mother died. The farm had gone quite wrong since we lost father.
My near friends advised me to wed with Kenneth Moore, and all the village people looked upon
it as a settled thing. It was horribly cold, too, out there at the gate--and--and that was
how it came about that I consented.

I went into the house as miserable as Kenneth had gone away happy. I hated myself for having
been so weak, and I hated Kenneth because I could not love him. The door was on the latch;
I went in and flung it to behind me, with a petulant violence that made old Hagar, who was
rheumatic and had stayed at home that evening on account of the fog, come out of the kitchen
to see what was the matter.

"It's settled at last," I cried, tearing off my bonnet and shawl; "I'm to be Mrs. Kenneth Moore.
Now are you satisfied?"

"It's best so--I'm sure it's much best so," exclaimed the old woman; "but, deary-dear!" she
added as I burst into a fit of sobbing, "how can I be satisfied if you don't be?"

I wouldn't talk to her about it. What was the good? She'd forgotten long ago how the heart
of a girl like me hungers for its true mate, and how frightful is the thought of giving oneself
to a man one does not love!

Hagar offered condolence and supper, but I would partake of neither; and I went up to bed at
once, prepared to cry myself to sleep, as other girls would have done in such a plight as mine.

As I entered my room with a lighted candle in my hand, there came an awful crash at the window--the
glass and framework were shivered to atoms, and in the current of air that rushed through the
room, my light went out. Then there came a crackling, breaking sound from the branches of the
old apple tree beneath my window; then a scraping on the bricks and window-ledge; then more
splintering of glass and window-frame: the blind broke away at the top, and my toilet table
was overturned--the looking-glass smashing to pieces on the floor, and I was conscious that
someone had stepped into the room.

At the same moment the door behind me was pushed open, and Hagar, frightened out of her wits,
peered in with a lamp in her hand.

By its light I first saw Phillip Rutley.

A well-built, manly, handsome young fellow, with bright eyes and light, close-cropped curly
hair, he seemed like a merry boy who had just popped over a wall in search of a cricket ball
rather than an intruder who had broke into the house of two lone women in so alarming a manner.

My fear yielded to indignation when I realized that it was a strange man who had made his way
into my room with so little ceremony, but his first words--or rather the way in which he spoke
them--disarmed me.

"I beg ten thousand pardons. Pay for all the damage. It's only my balloon!"

"Good gracious!" ejaculated Hagar.

My curiosity was aroused. I went forward to the shattered window.

"Your balloon! Did you come down in a balloon? Where is it?"

"All safe outside," replied the aeronaut consolingly. "Not a bad descent, considering this
confounded--I beg pardon--this confound-ing fog. Thought I was half a mile up in the air. Opened
the valve a little to drop through the cloud and discover my location. Ran against your house
and anchored in your apple tree. Have you any men about the place to help me get the gas out?"

We fetched one of our farm labourers, and managed things so well, in spite of the darkness,
that about midnight we had the great clumsy thing lying upon the lawn in a state of collapse.
Instead of leaving it there with the car safely wedged into the apple-tree, until the morning
light would let him work more easily, Rutley must needs "finish the job right off," as he said,
and the result of this was that while he was standing in the car a bough suddenly broke and
he was thrown to the ground, sustaining such injuries that we found him senseless when we ran
to help him.

We carried him into the drawing-room, by the window of which he had fallen, and when we got
the doctor to him, it was considered best that he should remain with us that night How could
we refuse him a shelter? The nearest inn was a long way off; and how could he be moved there
among people who would not care for him, when the doctor said it was probable that the poor
fellow was seriously hurt internally?

We kept him with us that night; yes, and for weeks after. By Heaven's mercy he will be with
me all the rest of my life.

It was this unexpected visit of Phillip's, and the feeling that grew between us as I nursed
him well and strong again, that brought it about that I told Kenneth Moore, who had become
so repugnant to me that I could not bear to see him or hear him speak, that I wanted to be
released from the promise he had wrung from me that night at the garden gate.

His rage was terrible to witness. He saw at once that my heart was given to someone else, and
guessed who it must be; for, of course, everybody knew about our visitor from the clouds. He
refused to release me from my pledge to him, and uttered such wild threats against poor Phillip,
whom he had not seen, and who, indeed, had not spoken of love to me at that time, that it precipitated
my union with his rival. One insult that he was base enough to level at Phillip and me stung
me so deeply, that I went at once to Mr. Rutley and told him how it was possible for evil minds
to misconstrue his continuing to reside at the farm.

When I next met Kenneth Moore I was leaving the registrar's office upon the arm of my husband.
Kenneth did not know what had happened, but when he saw us walking openly together, his face
assumed an expression of such intense malignity, that a great fear for Phillip came like a
chill upon my heart, and when we were alone together under the roof that might henceforth harmlessly
cover us both, I had but one thought, one intense desire--to quit it for ever in secret with
the man I loved, and leave no foot-print behind for our enemy to track us by.

It was now that Phillip told me that he possessed an independent fortune, by virtue of which
the world lay spread out before us for our choice of a home.

"Sweet as have been the hours that I have passed here--precious and hallowed as this little
spot on the wide earth's surface must ever be to me," said my husband, "I want to take you
away from it and show you many goodly things you have as yet hardly dreamed of. We will not
abandon your dear old home, but we will find someone to take care of it for us, and see what
other paradise we can discover in which to spend our life-long honeymoon."

I had never mentioned to Phillip the name of Kenneth Moore, and so he thought it a mere playful
caprice that made me say:--

"Let us go, Phillip, no one knows where--not even ourselves. Let Heaven guide us in our choice
of a resting-place. Let us vanish from this village as if we had never lived in it. Let us
go and be forgotten."

He looked at me in astonishment, and replied in a joking way:--

"The only means I know of to carry out your wishes to the letter, would be a nocturnal departure,
as I arrived--that is to say, in my balloon."

"Yes, Phillip, yes!" I exclaimed eagerly, "in your balloon, to-night, in your balloon!"

       *       *       *       *       *

That night, in a field by the reservoir of the gas-works of Nettledene, the balloon was inflated,
and the car loaded with stores for our journey to unknown lands. The great fabric swayed and
struggled in the strong breeze that blew over the hills, and it was with some difficulty that
Phillip and I took our seats. All was in readiness, when Phillip, searching the car with a
lantern, discovered that we had not with us the bundle of rugs and wraps which I had got ready
for carrying off.

"Keep her steady, boys!" he cried. "I must run back to the house." And he leapt from the car
and disappeared in the darkness.

It was weird to crouch there alone, with the great balloon swaying over my head, each plunge
threatening to dislodge me from the seat to which I clung, the cords and the wicker-work straining
and creaking, and the swish of the silk sounding like the hiss of a hundred snakes. It was
alarming in no small degree to know how little prevented me from shooting up solitarily to
take an indefinite place among the stars. I confess that I was nervous, but I only called to
the men who were holding the car to please take care and not let me go without Mr. Rutley.

The words were scarcely out of my mouth when a man, whom we all thought was he, climbed into
the car and hoarsely told them to let go. The order was obeyed and the earth seemed to drop
away slowly beneath us as the balloon rose and drifted away before the wind.

"You haven't the rugs, after all!" I exclaimed to my companion. He turned and flung his arms
about me, and the voice of Kenneth Moore it was that replied to me:--

"I have you. I swore I would have you, and I've got you at last!"

In an instant, as I perceived that I was being carried off from my husband by the very man
I had been trying to escape, I seized the grapnel that lay handy and flung it over the side.
It was attached to a long stout cord which was fastened to the body of the car, and by the
violent jerks that ensued I knew that I was not too late to snatch at an anchorage and the
chance of a rescue. The balloon, heavily ballasted, was drifting along near the ground with
the grappling-iron tearing through hedges and fences and trees, right in the direction of our
farm. How I prayed that it might again strike against the house as it did with Phillip, and
that he might be near to succour me!

As we swept along the fields the grapnel, taking here and there a secure hold for a moment
or so, would bring the car side down to the earth, nearly jerking us out, but we both clung
fast to the cordage, and then the grapnel would tear its way through and the balloon would
rise like a great bird into the air.

It was in the moment that one of these checks occurred, when the balloon had heeled over in
the wind until it lay almost horizontally upon the surface of the ground, that I saw Phillip
Rutley standing in the meadow beneath me. He cried to me as the car descended to him with me
clinging to the ropes and framework for my life:--

"Courage, dearest! You're anchored. Hold on tight. You won't be hurt."

Down came the car sideways, and struck the ground violently, almost crushing him. As it rebounded
he clung to the edge and held it down, shouting for help. I did not dare let go my hold, as
the balloon was struggling furiously, but I shrieked to Phillip that Kenneth Moore had tried
to carry me off, and implored him to save me from that man. But before I could make myself
understood, Kenneth, who like myself had been holding on for dear life, threw himself suddenly
upon Phillip, who, to ward off a shower of savage blows, let go of the car.

There was a heavy gust of wind, a tearing sound, the car rose out of Phillip's reach, and we
dragged our anchor once more. The ground flew beneath us, and my husband was gone.

I screamed with all my might, and prepared to fling myself out when we came to the earth again,
but my captor, seizing each article that lay on the floor of the car, hurled forth, with the
frenzy of a madman, ballast, stores, water-keg, cooking apparatus, everything, indiscriminately.
For a moment this unburdening of the balloon did not have the effect one would suppose--that
of making us shoot swiftly up into the sky, and I trusted that Phillip and the men who had
helped us at the gas-works had got hold of the grapnel line, and would haul us down; but, looking
over the side, I perceived that we were flying along unfettered, and increasing each minute
our distance from the earth.

We were off, then, Heaven alone could tell whither! I had lost the protection of my husband,
and fallen utterly into the power of a lover who was terrifying and hateful to me.

Away we sped in the darkness, higher and higher, faster and faster; and I crouched, half-fainting,
in the bottom of the car, while Kenneth Moore, bending over me, poured his horrible love into
my ear:--

"Minnie! My Minnie! Why did you try to play me false? Didn't you know your old playmate better
than to suppose he would give you up? Thank your stars, girl, you are now quit of that scoundrel,
and that the very steps he took to ruin you have put it in my power to save you from him and
from your wilful self."

I forgot that he did not know Phillip and I had been married that morning, and, indignant that
he should speak so of my husband, I accused him in turn of seeking to destroy me. How dared
he interfere with me? How dared he speak ill of a man who was worth a thousand of himself--who
had not persecuted me all my life, who loved me honestly and truly, and whom I loved with all
my soul? I called Kenneth Moore a coward, a cruel, cowardly villain, and commanded him to stop
the balloon, to let me go back to my home--back to Phillip Rutley, who was the only man I could
ever love in the whole wide world!

"You are out of your senses, Minnie," he answered, and he clasped me tightly in his arms, while
the balloon mounted higher and higher. "You are angry with me now, but when you realize that
you are mine for ever and cannot escape, you will forgive me, and be grateful to me--yes, and
love me, for loving you so well."

"Never!" I cried, "never! You are a thief! You have stolen me, and I hate you! I shall always
hate you. Rather than endure you, I will make the balloon fall right down, down, and we will
both be dashed to pieces."

I was so furious with him that I seized the valve-line that swung near me at the moment, and
tugged at it with all my might. He grasped my hand, but I wound the cord about my arms, held
on to it with my teeth, and he could not drag it from me. In the struggle we nearly overturned
the car. I did not care. I would gladly have fallen out and lost my life now that I had lost
Phillip.

Then Kenneth took from his pocket a large knife and unclasped it. I laughed aloud, for I thought
he meant to frighten me into submission. But I soon saw what he meant to do. He climbed up
the cordage and cut the valve-line through.

"Now you are conquered!" he cried, "and we will voyage together to the world's end."

I had risen to my feet and watched him, listened to him with a thrill of despair; but even
as his triumphant words appalled me the car swayed down upon the side opposite to where I stood--the
side where still hung the long line with the grapnel--and I saw the hands of a man upon the
ledge; the arms, the head, and the shoulders of a man, of a man who the next minute was standing
in the car, I fast in his embrace: Phillip Rutley, my true love, my husband!

Then it seemed to me that the balloon collapsed, and all things melted, and I was whirling
away--down, down, down!

How long I was unconscious I do not know, but it was daylight when I opened my eyes. It was
piercingly cold--snow was falling, and although I lay in Phillip's arms with his coat over
me, while he sat in his shirt-sleeves holding me. On the other side stood Kenneth Moore. He
also was in his shirt-sleeves. His coat also had been devoted to covering me. Both those men
were freezing there for my sake, and I was ungrateful enough to shiver.

I need not tell you that I gave them no peace until they had put their coats on again. Then
we all crouched together in the bottom of the car to keep each other warm. I shrank from Kenneth
a little, but not much, for it was kind of him--so kind and generous--to suffer that awful
cold for me. What surprised me was that he made no opposition to my resting in Phillip's arms,
and Phillip did not seem to mind his drawing close to me.

But Kenneth explained:--

"Mr. Rutley has told me you are already his wife, Minnie. Is that true?"

I confirmed it, and asked him to pardon my choosing where my heart inclined me.

"If that is so," he said, "I have little to forgive and much to be forgiven. Had I known how
things stood, I loved you too well to imperil your happiness and your life, and the life of
the man you prefer to me."

"But the danger is all over now," said I; "let us be good friends for the future."

"We may at least be friends," replied Kenneth; and I caught a glance of some mysterious import
that passed between the men. The question it would have led me to ask was postponed by the
account Phillip gave of his presence in the balloon-car--how by springing into the air as the
grapnel swung past him, dragged clear by the rising balloon, he had caught the irons and then
the rope, climbing up foot by foot, swinging to and fro in the darkness, up, up, until the
whole length of the rope was accomplished and he reached my side. Brave, strong, dear Phillip!

And, now, once more he would have it that I must wear his coat.

"The sun's up, Minnie, and he'll soon put warmth into our bones. I'm going to have some exercise.
My coat will be best over you."

Had it not been so excruciatingly cold we might have enjoyed the grandeur of our sail through
the bright, clear heavens, the big brown balloon swelling broadly above us. Phillip tried to
keep up our spirits by calling attention to these things, but Kenneth said little or nothing,
and looked so despondent that, wishing to divert his thoughts from his disappointment concerning
myself, which I supposed was his trouble, I heedlessly blurted out that I was starving, and
asked him to give me some breakfast.

Then it transpired that he had thrown out of the car all the provisions with which we had been
supplied for our journey.

The discovery took the smiles out of Phillip's merry face.

"You'll have to hold on a bit, little woman," said he. "When we get to a way-station or an
hotel, we'll show the refreshment contractors what sort of appetites are to be found up above."

Then I asked them where we were going; whereabouts we had got to; and why we did not descend.
Which elicited the fact that Kenneth had thrown away the instruments by which the aeronaut
informs himself of his location and the direction of his course. For a long time Phillip playfully
put me off in my petition to be restored to terra firma, but at last it came out that the valve-line
being cut we could not descend, and that the balloon must speed on, mounting higher and higher,
until it would probably burst in the extreme tension of the air.

"Soon after that," said Phillip, with a grim, hard laugh, "we shall be back on the earth again."

We found it difficult to enjoy the trip after this prospect was made clear. Nor did conversation
flow very freely. The hours dragged slowly on, and our sufferings increased.

At last Phillip made up his mind to attempt a desperate remedy. What it was he would not tell
me, but, kissing me tenderly, he made me lie down and covered my head with his coat.

Then he took off his boots, and then the car creaked and swayed, and suddenly I felt he was
gone out of it. He had told me not to look out from under his coat; but how could I obey him?
I did look, and I saw him climbing like a cat up the round, hard side of the balloon, clinging
with hands and feet to the netting that covered it.

As he mounted, the balloon swayed over with his weight until it was right above him and he
could hardly hold on to the cords with his toes and his fingers. Still he crept on, and still
the great silken fabric heeled over, as if it resented his boldness and would crush him.

Once his foothold gave way, and he dropped to his full length, retaining only his hand-grip
of the thin cords, which nearly cut his fingers in two under the strain of his whole weight.
I thought he was gone; I thought I had lost him for ever. It seemed impossible he could keep
his hold, and even if he did the weak netting must give way. It stretched down where he grasped
it into a bag form and increased his distance from the balloon, so that he could not reach
with his feet, although he drew his body up and made many a desperate effort to do so.

But while I watched him in an agony of powerlessness to help, the balloon slowly regained the
perpendicular, and just as Phillip seemed at the point of exhaustion his feet caught once more
in the netting, and, with his arms thrust through the meshes and twisted in and out for security,
while his strong teeth also gripped the cord, I saw my husband in comparative safety once more.
I turned to relieve my pent-up feelings to Kenneth, but he was not in the car--only his boots.
He had seen Phillip's peril, and climbed up on the other side of the balloon to restore the
balance.

But now the wicked thing served them another trick; it slowly lay over on its side under the
weight of the two men, who were now poised like panniers upon the extreme convexity of the
silk. This was very perilous for both, but the change of position gave them a little rest,
and Phillip shouted instructions round to Kenneth to slowly work his way back to the car, while
he (Phillip) would mount to the top of the balloon, the surface of which would be brought under
him by Kenneth's weight. It was my part to make them balance each other. This I did by watching
the tendency of the balloon, and telling Kenneth to move to right or left as I saw it become
necessary. It was very difficult for us all. The great fabric wobbled about most capriciously,
sometimes with a sudden turn that took us all by surprise, and would have jerked every one
of us into space, had we not all been clinging fast to the cordage.

At last Phillip shouted:--

"Get ready to slip down steadily into the car."

"I am ready," replied Kenneth.

"Then go!" came from Phillip.

"Easy does it! Steady! Don't hurry! Get right down into the middle of the car, both of you,
and keep quite still."

We did as he told us, and as Kenneth joined me, we heard a faint cheer from above, and the
message:--

"Safe on the top of the balloon!"

"Look, Minnie, look!" cried Kenneth; and on a cloud-bank we saw the image of our balloon with
a figure sitting on the summit, which could only be Phillip Rutley.

"Take care, my dearest! take care!" I besought him.

"I'm all right as long as you two keep still," he declared; but it was not so.

After he had been up there about ten minutes trying to mend the escape-valve, so that we could
control it from the car, a puff of wind came and overturned the balloon completely. In a moment
the aspect of the monster was transformed into a crude resemblance to the badge of the Golden
Fleece--the car with Kenneth and me in it at one end, and Phillip Rutley hanging from the other,
the huge gas-bag like the body of the sheep of Colchis in the middle.

And now the balloon twisted round and round as if resolved to wrench itself from Phillip's
grasp, but he held on as a brave man always does when the alternative is fight or die. The
terrible difficulty he had in getting back I shudder to think of. It is needless to recount
it now. Many times I thought that both men must lose their lives, and I should finish this
awful voyage alone. But in the end I had my arms around Phillip's neck once more, and was thanking
God for giving him back to me.

I don't think I half expressed my gratitude to poor Kenneth, who had so bravely and generously
helped to save him. I wish I had said more when I look back at that time now. But my love for
Phillip made me blind to everything.

Phillip was very much done up, and greatly dissatisfied with the result of his exertions; but
he soon began to make the best of things, as he always did.

"I'm a selfish duffer, Minnie," said he. "All the good I've done by frightening you like this
is to get myself splendidly warm."

"What, have you done nothing to the valve?"

"Didn't have time. No, Moore and I must try to get at it from below, though from what I saw
before I started to go aloft, it seemed impossible."

"But we are descending."

"Eh?"

"Descending rapidly. See how fast we are diving into that cloud below!"

"It's true! We're dropping. What can it mean?"

As he spoke we were immersed in a dense white mist, which wetted us through as if we had been
plunged in water. Then suddenly the car was filled with whirling snow--thick masses of snow
that covered us so that we could not see each other; choked us so that we could hardly speak
or breathe.

And the cold! the cold! It cut us like knives; it beat the life out of us as if with hammers.

This sudden, overwhelming horror struck us dumb. We could only cling together and pray. It
was plain that there must be a rent in the silk, a large one, caused probably by the climbing
of the men, a rent that might widen at any moment and reduce the balloon to ribbons.

We were being dashed along in a wild storm of wind and snow, the headlong force of which alone
delayed the fate which seemed surely to await us. Where should we fall? The world beneath us
was near and palpable, yet we could not distinguish any object upon it. But we fell lower and
lower, until our eyes informed us all in an instant, and we exclaimed together:--

"We are falling into the sea!" Yes, there it was beneath us, raging and leaping like a beast
of prey. We should be drowned! We must be drowned! There was no hope, none!

Down we came slantwise to the water. The foam from the top of a mountain-wave scudded through
the ropes of the car. Then the hurricane bore us up again on its fierce breast, and--yes, it
was bearing us to the shore!

We saw the coast-line, the high, red cliffs--saw the cruel rocks at their base! Horrible! Better
far to fall into the water and drown, if die we must.

The balloon flew over the rugged boulders, the snow and the foam of the sea indistinguishable
around us, and made straight for the high, towering precipice.

We should dash against the jagged front! The balloon was plunging down like a maddened bull,
when suddenly, within 12 ft. of the rock, there was a thrilling cry from Kenneth Moore, and
up we shot, almost clearing the projecting summit. Almost--not quite--sufficiently to escape
death; but the car, tripping against the very verge, hurled Phillip and myself, clasped in
each other's arms, far over the level snow.

We rose unhurt, to find ourselves alone.

What had become of our comrade--my childhood's playfellow, the man who had loved me so well,
and whom I had cast away?

He was found later by some fishermen--a shapeless corpse upon the beach.

I stood awe-stricken in an outbuilding of a little inn that gave us shelter, whither they had
borne the poor shattered body, and I wept over it as it lay there covered with the fragment
of a sail.

My husband was by my side, and his voice was hushed and broken, as he said to me:--

"Minnie, I believe that, under God, our lives were saved by Kenneth Moore. Did you not hear
that cry of his when we were about to crash into the face of the cliff?"

"Yes, Phillip," I answered, sobbing, "and I missed him suddenly as the balloon rose."

"You heard the words of that parting cry?"

"Yes, oh, yes! He said: 'A Wedding Gift! Minnie! A Wedding Gift!'"

"And then?"

"He left us together."

HANDS

BY BECKLES WILSON

The hand, like the face, is indicative or representative of character. Even those who find
the path to belief in the doctrines of the palmist and chirognomist paved with innumerable
thorns, cannot fail to be interested in the illustrious manual examples, collected from the
studios of various sculptors, which accompany this article.

Mr. Adams-Acton, a distinguished sculptor, tells me his belief that there is as great expression
in the hand as in the face; and another great artist, Mr. Alfred Gilbert, R.A., goes even a
step further: he invests the bare knee with expression and vital identity. There would, indeed,
appear to be no portion of the human frame which is incapable of giving forth some measure
of the inherent distinctiveness of its owner. This is, I think, especially true of the hand.
No one who was fortunate enough to observe the slender, tapering fingers and singular grace
of the hand of the deceased Poet Laureate could possibly believe it the extremity of a coarse
or narrow-minded person. In the accompanying photographs, the hand of a cool, yet enthusiastic,
ratiocinative spirit will be found to bear a palpable affinity to others whose possessors come
under this head, and yet be utterly antagonistic to Carlyle's, or to another type, Cardinal
Manning's.

We have here spread out for our edification hands of majesty, hands of power; of artistic creativeness;
of cunning; hands of the ruler, the statesman, the soldier, the author, and the artist. To
philosophers disposed to resolve a science from representative examples here is surely no lack
of matter. It would, on the whole, be difficult to garner from the century's history a more
glittering array of celebrities in all the various departments of endeavour than is here presented.

First and foremost, entitled to precedence almost by a double right, for this cast antedates,
with one exception, all the rest, are the hands of Her Majesty the Queen. They were executed
in 1844, when Her Majesty had sat upon the throne but seven years, and, if I do not greatly
err, in connection with the first statue of the Queen after her accession. They will no doubt
evoke much interest when compared with the hand of the lamented Princess Alice, who was present
at the first ceremony, an infant in arms of eight months. In addition to that of the Princess
Alice, taken in 1872, we have the hands of the Princesses Louise and Beatrice, all three of
whom sat for portrait statues to Sir Edgar Boehm, R.A., from whose studio, also, emanates the
cast of the hand of the Prince of Wales.

In each of the manual extremities thus presented of the Royal Family, similar characteristics
may be noticed. The dark hue which appears on the surface of the hands of the two last named
Princesses is not the fault of the photograph but of the casts, which are, unfortunately, in
a soiled condition.

It is a circumstance not a little singular, but the only cast in this collection which is anterior
to the Queen's, itself appertains to Royalty, being none other than the hand of Caroline, sister
of the first Napoleon, who also, it must not be forgotten, was a queen. It is purposely coupled
in the photograph with that of Anak, the famous French giant, in order to exhibit the exact
degree of its deficiency in that quality which giants most and ladies least can afford to be
complaisant over size. Certainly it would be hard to deny it grace and exquisite proportion,
in which it resembles an even more beautiful hand, that of the Greek lady, Zoe, wife of the
late Archbishop of York, which seems to breathe of Ionian mysticism and elegance.

One cannot dwell long upon this quality of grace and elegance without adverting to a hand which,
if not the most wonderful among the hands masculine, is with one exception the most beautiful.
When it is stated that this cast of Mr. Gladstone's hand was executed by Mr. Adams-Acton, quite
recently; that one looks upon the hand not of a youth of twenty, but of an octogenarian, it
is difficult to deny it the epithet remarkable. Although the photograph is not wholly favourable
to the comparison, yet in the original plaster it is possible at once to detect its similarity
to the hand of Lord Beaconsfield.

In truth, the hands of these statesmen have much in common. Yet, for a more striking resemblance
between hands we must turn to another pair. The sculptor calls attention to the eminently ecclesiastical
character of the hand of Cardinal Manning. It is in every respect the hand of the ideal prelate.
Yet its every attribute is common to one hand, and one hand only, in the whole collection,
that of Mr. Henry Irving, the actor. The general conformation, the protrusion of the metacarpal
bones, the laxity of the skin at the joints, are characteristic of both.

There could be no mistaking the bellicose traits visible in the hands of the two warriors Lord
Napier of Magdala and Sir Bartle Frere. Both bespeak firmness, hardihood, and command, just
as Lord Brougham's hand, which will be found represented on the next page, suggest the jurist,
orator, and debater. But it can scarcely be said that the great musician is apparent in Liszt's
hand, which is also depicted on the following page. The fingers are short and corpulent, and
the whole extremity seems more at variance with the abilities and temperament of the owner
than any other represented in these casts, and, as a case which seems to completely baffle
the reader of character, is one of the most interesting in the collection.

Highly gruesome, but not less fascinating, are the hands of the late Wilkie Collins, with which
we will conclude this month's section of our subject.

In this connection a gentleman, who had known the novelist in life, on being shown the cast,
exclaimed: "Yes, those are the hands, I assure you; none other could have written the 'Woman
in White!'"

NOTE.--Thanks are due to Messrs. Hamo Thorneycroft, R.A., Adams-Acton, Onslow Ford, R.A., T.
Brock, R.A., W. R. Ingram, Alfred Gilbert, R.A., J. T. Tussaud, Professor E. Lantéri, and A.
B. Skinner, Secretary South Kensington Museum, for courtesies extended during the compilation
of this paper.

(To be continued.)

QUASTANA, THE BRIGAND

FROM THE FRENCH OF ALFONSE DAUDET

I.

Misadventures? Well, if I were an author by profession, I could make a pretty big book of the
administrative mishaps which befell me during the three years I spent in Corsica as legal adviser
to the French Prefecture. Here is one which will probably amuse you:--

I had just entered upon my duties at Ajaccio. One morning I was at the club, reading the papers
which had just arrived from Paris, when the Prefect's man-servant brought me a note, hastily
written in pencil: "Come at once; I want you. We have got the brigand, Quastana." I uttered
an exclamation of joy, and went off as fast as I could to the Prefecture. I must tell you that,
under the Empire, the arrest of a Corsican banditto was looked upon as a brilliant exploit,
and meant promotion, especially if you threw a certain dash of romance about it in your official
report.

Unfortunately brigands had become scarce. The people were getting more civilized and the vendetta
was dying out. If by chance a man did kill another in a row, or do something which made it
advisable for him to keep clear of the police, he generally bolted to Sardinia instead of turning
brigand. This was not to our liking; for no brigand, no promotion. However, our Prefect had
succeeded in finding one; he was an old rascal, Quastana by name, who, to avenge the murder
of his brother, had killed goodness knows how many people. He had been pursued with vigour,
but had escaped, and after a time the hue and cry had subsided and he had been forgotten. Fifteen
years had passed, and the man had lived in seclusion; but our Prefect, having heard of the
affair and obtained a clue to his whereabouts, endeavoured to capture him, with no more success
than his predecessor. We were beginning to despair of our promotion; you can, therefore, imagine
how pleased I was to receive the note from my chief.

I found him in his study, talking very confidentially to a man of the true Corsican peasant type.

"This is Quastana's cousin," said the Prefect to me, in a low tone. "He lives in the little
village of Solenzara, just above Porto-Vecchio, and the brigand pays him a visit every Sunday
evening to have a game of scopa. Now, it seems that these two had some words the other Sunday,
and this fellow has determined to have revenge; so he proposes to hand his cousin over to justice,
and, between you and me, I believe he means it. But as I want to make the capture myself, and
in as brilliant a manner as possible, it is advisable to take precautions in order not to expose
the Government to ridicule. That's what I want you for. You are quite a stranger in the country
and nobody knows you; I want you to go and see for certain if it really is Quastana who goes
to this man's house."

"But I have never seen this Quastana," I began.

My chief pulled out his pocket-book and drew forth a photograph much the worse for wear.

"Here you are!" he exclaimed. "The rascal had the cheek to have his portrait taken last year
at Porto-Vecchio!"

While we were looking at the photo the peasant drew near, and I saw his eyes flash vengefully;
but the look quickly vanished and his face resumed its usual stolid appearance.

"Are you not afraid that the presence of a stranger will frighten your cousin, and make him
stay away on the following Sunday?" we asked.

"No!" replied the man. "He is too fond of cards. Besides, there are many new faces about here
now on account of the shooting. I'll say that this gentleman has come for me to show him where
the game is to be found."

Thereupon we made an appointment for the next Sunday, and the fellow walked off without the
least compunction for his dirty trick. When he was gone, the Prefect impressed upon me the
necessity for keeping the matter very quiet, because he intended that nobody else should share
the credit of the capture. I assured him that I would not breathe a word, thanked him for his
kindness in asking me to assist him, and we separated to go to our work and dream of promotion.

The next morning I set out in full shooting costume, and took the coach which does the journey
from Ajaccio to Bastia. For those who love Nature, there is no better ride in the world, but
I was too busy with my castles in the air to notice any of the beauties of the landscape.

At Bonifacio we stopped for dinner. When I got on the coach again, just a little elevated by
the contents of a good-sized bottle, I found that I had a fresh travelling companion, who had
taken a seat next to me. He was an official at Bastia, and I had already met him; a man about
my own age, and a native of Paris like myself. A decent sort of fellow.

You are probably aware that the Administration, as represented by the Prefect, etc., and the
magistrature never get on well together; in Corsica it is worse than elsewhere. The seat of
the Administration is at Ajaccio, that of the magistrature at Bastia; we two therefore belonged
to hostile parties. But when you are a long way from home and meet someone from your native
place, you forget all else, and talk of the old country.

We were fast friends in less than no time, and were consoling each other for being in "exile"
as we termed it. The bottle of wine had loosened my tongue, and I soon told him, in strict
confidence, that I was looking forward to going back to France to take up some good post as
a reward for my share in the capture of Quastana, whom we hoped to arrest at his cousin's house
one Sunday evening. When my companion got off the coach at Porto-Vecchio, we felt as though
we had known each other for years.

II.

I arrived at Solenzara between four and five o'clock. The place is populated in winter by workmen,
fishermen, and Customs officials, but in summer everyone who can shifts his quarters up in
the mountains on account of fever. The village was, therefore, nearly deserted when I reached
it that Sunday afternoon.

I entered a small inn and had something to eat, while waiting for Matteo. Time went on, and
the fellow did not put in an appearance; the innkeeper began to look at me suspiciously, and
I felt rather uncomfortable. At last there came a knock, and Matteo entered.

"He has come to my house," he said, raising his hand to his hat. "Will you follow me there?"

We went outside. It was very dark and windy; we stumbled along a stony path for about three
miles--a narrow path, full of small stones and overgrown with luxuriant vegetation, which prevented
us from going quickly.

"That's my house," said Matteo, pointing among the bushes to a light which was flickering at
a short distance from us.

A minute later we were confronted by a big dog, who barked furiously at us. One would have
imagined that he meant to stop us going farther along the road.

"Here, Bruccio, Bruccio!" cried my guide; then, leaning towards me, he said: "That's Quastana's
dog. A ferocious animal. He has no equal for keeping watch." Turning to the dog again, he called
out: "That's all right, old fellow! Do you take us for policemen?"

The enormous animal quieted down and came and sniffed around our legs. It was a splendid Newfoundland
dog, with a thick, white, woolly coat which had obtained for him the name of Bruccio (white
cheese). He ran on in front of us to the house, a kind of stone hut, with a large hole in the
roof which did duty for both chimney and window.

In the centre of the room stood a rough table, around which were several "seats" made of portions
of trunks of trees, hacked into shape with a chopper. A torch stuck in a piece of wood gave
a flickering light, around which flew a swarm of moths and other insects.

At the table sat a man who looked like an Italian or Provençal fisherman, with a shrewd, sunburnt,
clean-shaven face. He was leaning over a pack of cards, and was enveloped in a cloud of tobacco
smoke.

"Cousin Quastana," said Matteo as we went in, "this is a gentleman who is going shooting with
me in the morning. He will sleep here to-night, so as to be close to the spot in good time
to-morrow."

When you have been an outlaw and had to fly for your life, you look with suspicion upon a stranger.
Quastana looked me straight in the eyes for a second; then, apparently satisfied, he saluted
me and took no further notice of me. Two minutes later the cousins were absorbed in a game
of scopa.

It is astonishing what a mania for card-playing existed in Corsica at that time--and it is
probably the same now. The clubs and cafés were watched by the police, for the young men ruined
themselves at a game called bouillotte. In the villages it was the same; the peasants were
mad for a game at cards, and when they had no money they played for their pipes, knives, sheep--anything.

I watched the two men with great interest as they sat opposite each other, silently playing
the game. They watched each other's movements, the cards either face downwards upon the table
or carefully held so that the opponent might not catch a glimpse of them, and gave an occasional
quick glance at their "hand" without losing sight of the other player's face. I was especially
interested in watching Quastana. The photograph was a very good one, but it could not reproduce
the sunburnt face, the vivacity and agility of movement, surprising in a man of his age, and
the hoarse, hollow voice peculiar to those who spend most of their time in solitude.

Between two and three hours passed in this way, and I had some difficulty in keeping awake
in the stuffy air of the hut and the long stretches of silence broken only by an occasional
exclamation: "Seventeen!" "Eighteen!" From time to time I was aroused by a heavy gust of wind,
or a dispute between the players.

Suddenly there was a savage bark from Bruccio, like a cry of alarm. We all sprang up, and Quastana
rushed out of the door, returning an instant afterwards and seizing his gun. With an exclamation
of rage he darted out of the door again and was gone. Matteo and I were looking at one another
in surprise, when a dozen armed men entered and called upon us to surrender. And in less time
than it takes to tell you we were on the ground, bound, and prisoners. In vain I tried to make
the gendarmes understand who I was; they would not listen to me. "That's all right; you will
have an opportunity of making an explanation when we get to Bastia."

They dragged us to our feet and drove us out with the butt-ends of their carbines. Handcuffed,
and pushed about by one and another, we reached the bottom of the slope, where a prison-van
was waiting for us--a vile box, without ventilation and full of vermin--into which we were
thrown and driven to Bastia, escorted by gendarmes with drawn swords.

A nice position for a Government official!

III.

It was broad daylight when we reached Bastia. The Public Prosecutor, the colonel of the gendarmes,
and the governor of the prison were impatiently awaiting us. I never saw a man look more astonished
than the corporal in charge of the escort, as, with a triumphant smile, he led me to these
gentlemen, and saw them hurry towards me with all sorts of apologies, and take off the handcuffs.

"What! Is it you?" exclaimed the Public Prosecutor. "Have these idiots really arrested you?
But how did it come about--what is the meaning of it?"

Explanations followed. On the previous day the Public Prosecutor had received a telegram from
Porto-Vecchio, informing him of the presence of Quastana in the locality, and giving precise
details as to where and when he could be found. The name of Porto-Vecchio opened my eyes; it
was that travelling companion of mine who had played me this shabby trick! He was the Prosecutor's
deputy.

"But, my dear sir," said the Public Prosecutor, "whoever would have expected to see you in
shooting costume in the house of the brigand's cousin! We have given you rather a bad time
of it, but I know you will not bear malice, and you will prove it by coming to breakfast with
me." Then turning to the corporal, and pointing to Matteo, he said: "Take this fellow away;
we will deal with him in the morning."

The unfortunate Matteo remained dumb with fright; he looked appealingly at me, and I, of course,
could not do otherwise than explain matters. Taking the Prosecutor on one side, I told him
that Matteo was really assisting the Prefect to capture the brigand; but as I told him all
about the matter, his face assumed a hard, judicial expression.

"I am sorry for the Prefecture," he said; "but I have Quastana's cousin, and I won't let him
go! He will be tried with some peasants, who are accused of having supplied the brigand with
provisions."

"But I repeat that this man is really in the service of the Prefecture," I protested.

"So much the worse for the Prefecture," said he with a laugh. "I am going to give the Administration
a lesson it won't forget, and teach it not to meddle with what doesn't concern it. There is
only one brigand in Corsica, and you want to take him! He's my game, I tell you. The Prefect
knows that, yet he tries to forestall me! Now I will pay him out. Matteo shall be tried; he
will, of course, appeal to your side; there will be a great to-do, and the brigand will be
put on his guard against his cousin and gentlemen of the Prefecture who go shooting."

Well, he kept his word. We had to appear on behalf of Matteo, and we had a nice time of it
in the court. I was the laughing-stock of the place. Matteo was acquitted, but he could no
longer be of use to us, because Quastana was forewarned. He had to quit the country.

As to Quastana, he was never caught. He knew the country, and every peasant was secretly ready
to assist him; and although the soldiers and gendarmes tried their best to take him, they could
not manage it. When I left the island he was still at liberty, and I have never heard anything
about his capture since.

ZIG-ZAG AT THE ZOO

By

Arthur Morrison

AND

J. A. Shepherd

VIII.

ZIG ZAG PHOCINE

The seal is an affable fellow, though sloppy. He is friendly to man: providing the journalist
with copy, the diplomatist with lying practice, and the punster with shocking opportunities.
Ungrateful for these benefits, however, or perhaps savage at them, man responds by knocking
the seal on the head and taking his skin: an injury which the seal avenges by driving man into
the Bankruptcy Court with bills for his wife's jackets. The puns instigated by the seal are
of a sort to make one long for the animal's extermination. It is quite possible that this is
really what the seal wants, because to become extinct and to occupy a place of honour beside
the dodo is a distinction much coveted amongst the lower animals. The dodo was a squabby, ugly,
dumpy, not to say fat-headed, bird when it lived; now it is a hero of romance. Possibly this
is what the seal is aiming at; but personally I should prefer the extinction of the punster.

The punster is a low person, who refers to the awkwardness of the seal's gait by speaking of
his not having his seal-legs, although a mariner or a sealubber, as he might express it. If
you reply that, on the contrary, the seal's legs, such as they are, are very characteristic,
he takes refuge in the atrocious admission, delivered with a French accent, that they are certainly
very sealy legs. When he speaks of the messages of the English Government, in the matter of
seal-catching in the Behring Sea, he calls it whitewashing the sealing, and explains that the
"Behrings of this here observation lies in the application on it." I once even heard a punster
remark that the Russian and American officials had got rather out of their Behrings, through
an excess of seal on behalf of their Governments; but he was a very sad specimen, in a very
advanced stage, and he is dead now. I don't say that that remark sealed his fate, but I believe
there are people who would say even that, with half a chance.

Another class of frivoller gets his opportunity because it is customary to give various species
of seals--divers species, one might say--inappropriate names. He tells you that if you look
for sea-lions and sea-leopards, you will not see lions, nor even see leopards, but seal-lions
and seal-leopards, which are very different. These are called lions and leopards because they
look less like lions and leopards than anything else in the world; just as the harp seal is
so called because he has a broad mark on his back, which doesn't look like a harp. Look at
Toby, the Patagonian sea-lion here, who has a large pond and premises to himself. I have the
greatest possible respect and esteem for Toby, but I shouldn't mistake him for a lion, in any
circumstances. With every wish to spare his feelings, one can only compare him to a very big
slug in an overcoat, who has had the misfortune to fall into the water. Even his moustache
isn't lion-like. Indeed, if he would only have a white cloth tucked round his neck, and sit
back in that chair that stands over his pond, he would look very respectably human--and he
certainly wants a shave.

Toby is a low-comedy sea-lion all over. When I set about organizing the Zoo Nigger Minstrels,
Toby shall be corner-man, and do the big-boot dance. He does it now, capitally. You have only
to watch him from behind as he proceeds along the edge of the pond, to see the big-boot dance
in all its quaint humour. Toby's hind flappers exhale broad farce at every step. Toby is a
cheerful and laughter-moving seal, and he would do capitally in a pantomime, if he were a little
less damp.

Toby is fond of music; so are most other seals. The complete scale of the seal's preferences
among the various musical instruments has not been fixed with anything like finality; but one
thing is certain--that far and away above all the rest of the things designed to produce music
and other noises, the seal prefers the bagpipes. This taste either proves the seal to be a
better judge of music than most human beings, or a worse one than any of the other animals,
according as the gentle reader may be a native of Scotland or of somewhere in the remainder
of the world. You may charm seals by the bagpipes just as a snake is charmed by pipes with
no bag. It has even been suggested that all the sealing vessels leaving this country should
carry bagpipes with them, and I can see no sound objection to this course--so long as they
take all the bagpipes. I could also reconcile myself to a general extrusion of concertinas
for this useful purpose--or for any other; not to mention barrel organs.

By-the-bye, on looking at Toby again I think we might do something better for him than give
him a mere part in a pantomime; his fine moustache and his shiny hair almost point to a qualification
for managership. Nothing more is wanted--except, perhaps, a fur-trimmed coat and a well-oiled
hat--to make a very fine manager indeed, of a certain sort.

I don't think there is a Noah's ark seal--unless the Lowther Arcade theology has been amended
since I had a Noah's ark. As a matter of fact, I don't see what business a seal would have
in the ark, where he would find no fish to eat, and would occupy space wanted by a more necessitous
animal who couldn't swim. At any rate, there was originally no seal in my Noah's ark, which
dissatisfied me, as I remember, at the time; what I wanted not being so much a Biblical illustration
as a handy zoological collection. So I appointed the dove a seal, and he did very well indeed
when I had pulled off his legs (a little inverted v). I argued, in the first place, that as
the dove went out and found nothing to alight on, the legs were of no use to him; in the second
place, that since, after all, the dove flew away and never returned, the show would be pretty
well complete without him; and, thirdly, that if, on any emergency, a dove were imperatively
required, he would do quite well without his legs--looking, indeed, much more like a dove,
as well as much more like a seal. So, as the dove was of about the same size as the cow, he
made an excellent seal; his bright yellow colour (Noah's was a yellow dove on the authority
of all orthodox arks) rather lending an air of distinction than otherwise. And when a rashly
funny uncle, who understood wine, observed that I was laying down my crusted old yellow seal
because it wouldn't stand up, I didn't altogether understand him.

Toby is a good soul, and you soon make his acquaintance. He never makes himself common, however.
As he swims round his circular pond, behind the high rails, he won't have anything to say to
a stranger--anybody he has not seen before. But if you wait a few minutes he will swim round
several times, see you often, and become quite affable. There is nothing more intelligent than
a tame seal, and I have heard people regret that seals can't talk, which is nonsense. When
a seal can make you understand him without it, talking is a noisy superfluity. Toby can say
many things without the necessity of talking. Observe his eyes fixed upon you as he approaches
for the first time. He turns and swaps past with his nose in the air. "Pooh, don't know you,"
he is saying. But wait. He swims round once, and, the next time of passing, gives you a little
more notice. He lifts his head and gazes at you, inquisitively, but severely. "Who's that person?"
he asks, and goes on his round.

Next time he rises even a little more. He even smiles, slightly, as he recognises you from
the corner of his eye. "Ah! Seen you before, I fancy." And as he flings over into the side
stroke he beams at you quite tolerantly.

He comes round again; but this time he smiles genially, and nods. "'Morning!" he says, in a
manner of a moderately old acquaintance. But see next time; he is an old, intimate friend by
this; a chum. He flings his fin-flappers upon the coping, leans toward the bars with an expansive
grin and says: "Well, old boy, and how are you?"--as cordially and as loudly as possible without
absolutely speaking the words. He will stay thus for a few moments' conversation, not entirely
uninfluenced, I fear, by anticipations of fish. Then, in the case of your not being in the
habit of carrying raw fish in your pockets, he takes his leave by the short process of falling
headlong into his pond and flinging a good deal of it over you. There is no difficulty in becoming
acquainted with Toby. If you will only wait a few minutes he will slop his pond over you with
all the genial urbanity of an intimate relation. But you must wait for the proper forms of
etiquette.

The seal's sloppiness is annoying. I would have a tame seal myself if he could go about without
setting things afloat. A wet seal is unpleasant to pat and fondle, and if he climbs on your
knees he is positively irritating. I suppose even a seal would get dry if you kept him out
of water long enough; but can you keep a seal out of water while there is any within five miles
for him to get into? And would the seal respect you for it if you did? A dog shakes himself
dry after a swim, and, if he be your own dog, he shakes the water over somebody else, which
is sagacious and convenient; but a seal doesn't shake himself, and can't understand that wet
will lower the value of any animal's caresses. Otherwise a seal would often be preferable to
a dog as a domestic pet. He doesn't howl all night. He never attempts to chase cats--seeing
the hopelessness of the thing. You don't need a license for him; and there is little temptation
to a loafer to steal him, owing to the restricted market for house-seals. I have frequently
heard of a dog being engaged to field in a single-wicket cricket match. I should like to play
somebody a single-wicket cricket match, with a dog and a seal to field for me. The seal, having
no legs to speak of--merely feet--would have to leave the running to the dog, but it could
catch. You may see magnificent catching here when Toby and Fanny--the Cape sea-lion (or lioness),
over by the turkeys--have their snacks of fish. Sutton the Second, who is Keeper of the Seals
(which is a fine title--rather like a Cabinet Minister), is then the source of a sort of pyrotechnic
shower of fish, every one of which is caught and swallowed promptly and neatly, no matter how
or where it may fall. Fanny, by the way, is the most active seal possible; it is only on extremely
rare occasions that she indulges in an interval of comparative rest, to scratch her head with
her hind foot and devise fresh gymnastics. But, all through the day, Fanny never forgets Sutton,
nor his shower of fish, and half her evolutions include a glance at the door whence he is wont
to emerge, and a sort of suicidal fling back into the pond in case of his non-appearance, all
which proceedings the solemn turkeys regard with increasing amazement.

 Toby, however, provides the great seal-feeding show. Toby
has a perfect set of properties and appliances for his performance,
including a chair, a diving platform, an inclined plane leading
thereunto, and a sort of plank isthmus leading to the chair. He climbs
up on to the chair, and, leaning over the back, catches as many fish as
Sutton will throw for him. He dives off the chair for other fish. He
shuffles up the inclined plane for more fish, amid the sniggers of
spectators, for Toby's march has no claim to magnificence. He tumbles
himself unceremoniously off the platform, he clambers up and kisses
Sutton (keeping his eye on the basket), and all for fish. It is curious
to contrast the perfunctory affection with which Toby gets over the kiss
and takes his reward, with the genuine fondness of his gaze after
Sutton when he leaves--with some fish remaining for other seals. Toby is
a willing worker; he would gladly have the performance twice as long,
while as to an eight hours' day----!

The seals in the next pond, Tommy and Jenny, are insulted with the epithet of "common" seals;
but Tommy and Jenny are really very respectable, and if a seal do happen to be born only Phoca
vitulina, he can't really help it, and doesn't deserve humiliation so long as he behaves himself.
Phoca vitulina has as excellent power of reason as any other kind of seal--brain power, acquired,
no doubt, from a continual fish diet. Tommy doesn't feel aggrieved at the slight put upon him,
however, and has a proper notion of his own importance. Watch him rise from a mere floating
patch--slowly, solemnly, and portentously, to take a look round. He looks to the left--nothing
to interest a well-informed seal; to the front--nothing; to the right everything is in order,
the weather is only so-so, but the rain keeps off, and there are no signs of that dilatory
person with the fish; so Tommy flops in again, and becomes once more a floating patch, having
conducted his little airing with proper dignity and self-respect. Really, there is nothing
common in the manners of Tommy; there is, at any rate, one piece of rude mischief which he
is never guilty of, but which many of the more aristocratic kinds of seal practise habitually.
He doesn't throw stones.

He doesn't look at all like a stone-thrower, as a matter of fact; but he--and other seals--can
throw stones nevertheless. If you chase a seal over a shingly beach, he will scuffle away at
a surprising pace, flinging up the stones into your face with his hind feet. This assault,
directed toward a well-intentioned person who only wants to bang him on the head with a club,
is a piece of grievous ill-humour, particularly on the part of the crested seal, who can blow
up a sort of bladder on the top of his head which protects him from assault; and which also
gives him, by-the-bye, an intellectual and large-brained appearance not his due, for all his
fish diet. I had been thinking of making some sort of a joke about an aristocratic seal with
a crest on it--beside a fine coat with no arms--but gave up the undertaking on reflecting that
no real swell--probably not even a parvenu--would heave half-bricks with his feet.

All this running away and hurling of clinkers may seem to agree ill with the longing after
extermination lately hinted at; but, in fact, it only proves the presence of a large amount
of human nature in the composition of the seal. From motives of racial pride the seal aspires
to extinction and a place beside the dodo, but in the spirit of many other patriots, he wants
the other seals to be exterminated first; wants the individual honour, in fact, of being himself
the very last seal, as well as the corporate honour of extinction for the species. This is
why, if he live in some other part, he takes such delighted interest in news of wholesale seal
slaughter in the Pacific; and also why he skedaddles from the well-meant bangs of the genial
hunter--these blows, by the way, being technically described as sealing-whacks.

The sea-lion, as I have said, is not like a lion; the sea-leopard is not like a leopard; but
the sea-elephant, which is another sort of seal, and a large one, may possibly be considered
sufficiently like an elephant to have been evolved, in the centuries, from an elephant who
has had the ill-luck to fall into the sea. He hasn't much of a trunk left, but he often finds
himself in seas of a coldness enough to nip off any ordinary trunk; but his legs and feet are
not elephantine.

What the previous adventures of the sea-lion may have been in the matter of evolution, I am
at a loss to guess, unless there is anything in the slug theory; but if he keep steadily on,
and cultivate his moustache and his stomach with proper assiduity, I have no doubt of his one
day turning up at a seaside resort and carrying on life in future as a fierce old German out
for a bathe. Or the Cape sea-lion, if only he continue his obsequious smile and his habit of
planting his fore-flappers on the ledge before him as he rises from the water, may some day,
in his posterity, be promoted to a place behind the counter of a respectable drapery warehouse,
there to sell the skins his relatives grow.

But after all, any phocine ambition, either for extinction or higher evolution, may be an empty
thing; because the seal is very comfortable as he is. Consider a few of his advantages. He
has a very fine fur overcoat, with an admirable lining of fat, which, as well as being warm,
permits any amount of harmless falling and tumbling about, such as is suitable to and inevitable
with the seal's want of shape. He can enjoy the sound of bagpipes, which is a privilege accorded
to few. Further, he can shut his ears when he has had enough, which is a faculty man may envy
him. His wife, too, always has a first-rate sealskin jacket, made in one piece, and he hasn't
to pay for it. He can always run down to the seaside when so disposed, although the run is
a waddle and a flounder; and if he has no tail to speak of--well, he can't have it frozen off.
All these things are better than the empty honour of extinction; better than evolution into
bathers who would be drownable, and translation into unaccustomed situations--with the peril
of a week's notice. Wherefore let the seal perpetuate his race--his obstacle race, as one might
say, seeing him flounder and flop.

The Major's Commission.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.

My name is Henry Adams, and in 1854 I was mate of a ship of 1,200 tons named the Jessamy Bride.
June of that year found her at Calcutta with cargo to the hatches, and ready to sail for England
in three or four days.

I was walking up and down the ship's long quarter-deck, sheltered by the awning, when a young
apprentice came aft and said a gentleman wished to speak to me. I saw a man standing in the
gangway; he was a tall, soldierly person, about forty years of age, with iron-grey hair and
spiked moustache, and an aquiline nose. His eyes were singularly bright and penetrating. He
immediately said:--

"I wanted to see the captain; but as chief officer you'll do equally well. When does this ship
sail?"

"On Saturday or Monday next."

He ran his eye along the decks and then looked aloft: there was something bird-like in the
briskness of his way of glancing.

"I understand you don't carry passengers?"

"That's so, sir, though there's accommodation for them."

"I'm out of sorts, and have been sick for months, and want to see what a trip round the Cape
to England will do for me. I shall be going home, not for my health only, but on a commission.
The Maharajah of Ratnagiri, hearing I was returning to England on sick-leave, asked me to take
charge of a very splendid gift for Her Majesty the Queen of England. It is a diamond, valued
at fifteen thousand pounds."

He paused to observe the effect of this communication, and then proceeded:--

"I suppose you know how the Koh-i-noor was sent home?"

"It was conveyed to England, I think," said I, "by H.M.S. Medea, in 1850."

"Yes, she sailed in April that year, and arrived at Portsmouth in June. The glorious gem was
intrusted to Colonel Mackieson and Captain Ramsay. It was locked up in a small box along with
other jewels, and each officer had a key. The box was secreted in the ship by them, and no
man on board the vessel, saving themselves, knew where it was hidden."

"Was that so?" said I, much interested.

"Yes; I had the particulars from the commander of the vessel, Captain Lockyer. When do you
expect your skipper on board?" he exclaimed, darting a bright, sharp look around him.

"I cannot tell. He may arrive at any moment."

"The having charge of a stone valued at fifteen thousand pounds, and intended as a gift for
the Queen of England, is a deuce of a responsibility," said he. "I shall borrow a hint from
the method adopted in the case of the Koh-i-noor. I intend to hide the stone in my cabin, so
as to extinguish all risk, saving, of course, what the insurance people call the acts of God.
May I look at your cabin accommodation?"

"Certainly."

I led the way to the companion hatch, and he followed me into the cabin. The ship had berthing
room for eight or ten people irrespective of the officers who slept aft. But the vessel made
no bid for passengers. She left them to Blackwall Liners, to the splendid ships of Green, Money
Wigram, and Smith, and to the P. & O. and other steam lines. The overland route was then the
general choice; few of their own decision went by way of the Cape. No one had booked with us
down to this hour, and we had counted upon having the cabin to ourselves.

The visitor walked into every empty berth, and inspected it as carefully as though he had been
a Government surveyor. He beat upon the walls and bulkheads with his cane, sent his brilliant
gaze into the corners and under the bunks and up at the ceiling, and finally said, as he stepped
from the last of the visitable cabins:--

"This decides me. I shall sail with you."

I bowed and said I was sure the captain would be glad of the pleasure of his company.

"I presume," said he, "that no objection will be raised to my bringing a native carpenter aboard
to construct a secret place, as in the case of the Koh-i-noor, for the Maharajah's diamond?"

"I don't think a native carpenter would be allowed to knock the ship about," said I.

"Certainly not. A little secret receptacle--big enough to receive this," said he, putting his
hand in his side pocket and producing a square Morocco case, of a size to berth a bracelet
or a large brooch. "The construction of a nook to conceal this will not be knocking your ship
about?"

"It's a question for the captain and the agents, sir," said I.

He replaced the case, whose bulk was so inconsiderable that it did not bulge in his coat when
he had pocketed it, and said, now that he had inspected the ship and the accommodation, he
would call at once upon the agents. He gave me his card and left the vessel.

The card bore the name of a military officer of some distinction. Enough if, in this narrative
of a memorable and extraordinary incident, I speak of him as Major Byron Hood.

The master of the Jessamy Bride was Captain Robert North. This man had, three years earlier,
sailed with me as my chief mate; it then happened I was unable to quickly obtain command, and
accepted the offer of mate of the Jessamy Bride, whose captain, I was surprised to hear, proved
the shipmate who had been under me, but who, some money having been left to him, had purchased
an interest in the firm to which the ship belonged. We were on excellent terms; almost as brothers
indeed. He never asserted his authority, and left it to my own judgment to recognise his claims.
I am happy to know he had never occasion to regret his friendly treatment of me.

He came on board in the afternoon of that day on which Major Hood had visited the ship, and
was full of that gentleman and his resolution to carry a costly diamond round the Cape under
sail, instead of making his obligation as brief as steam and the old desert route would allow.

"I've had a long talk with him up at the agents," said Captain North. "He don't seem well."

"Suffering from his nerves, perhaps," said I.

"He's a fine, gentlemanly person. He told Mr. Nicholson he was twice wounded, naming towns
which no Christian man could twist his tongue into the sound of."

"Will he be allowed to make a hole in the ship to hide his diamond in?"

"He has agreed to make good any damage done, and to pay at the rate of a fare and a half for
the privilege of hiding the stone."

"Why doesn't he give the thing into your keeping, sir? This jackdaw-like hiding is a sort of
reflection on our honesty, isn't it, captain?"

He laughed and answered, "No; I like such reflections for my part. Who wants to be burdened
with the custody of precious things belonging to other people? Since he's to have the honour
of presenting the diamond, let the worry of taking care of it be his; this ship's enough for me."

"He'll be knighted, I suppose, for delivering this stone," said I. "Did he show it to you, sir?"

"No."

"He has it in his pocket."

"He produced the case," said Captain North. "A thing about the size of a muffin. Where'll he
hide it? But we're not to be curious in that direction," he added, smiling.

Next morning, somewhere about ten o'clock, Major Hood came on board with two natives; one a
carpenter, the other his assistant. They brought a basket of tools, descended into the cabin,
and were lost sight of till after two. No; I'm wrong. I was writing at the cabin table at half-past
twelve when the Major opened his door, peered out, shut the door swiftly behind him with an
extraordinary air and face of caution and anxiety, and coming along to me asked for some refreshments
for himself and the two natives. I called to the steward, who filled a tray, which the Major
with his own hands conveyed into his berth. Then, some time after two, whilst I was at the
gangway talking to a friend, the Major and the two blacks came out of the cabin. Before they
went over the side I said:--

"Is the work finished below, sir?"

"It is, and to my entire satisfaction," he answered.

When he was gone, my friend, who was the master of a barque, asked me who that fine-looking
man was. I answered he was a passenger, and then, not understanding that the thing was a secret,
plainly told him what they had been doing in the cabin, and why.

"But," said he, "those two niggers'll know that something precious is to be hidden in the place
they've been making."

"That's been in my head all the morning," said I.

"Who's to hinder them," said he, "from blabbing to one or more of the crew? Treachery's cheap
in this country. A rupee will buy a pile of roguery." He looked at me expressively. "Keep a
bright look-out for a brace of well-oiled stowaways," said he.

"It's the Major's business," I answered, with a shrug.

When Captain North came on board he and I went into the Major's berth. We scrutinized every
part, but saw nothing to indicate that a tool had been used or a plank lifted. There was no
sawdust, no chip of wood: everything to the eye was precisely as before. No man will say we
had not a right to look: how were we to make sure, as captain and mate of the ship for whose
safety we were responsible, that those blacks under the eye of the Major had not been doing
something which might give us trouble by-and-by?

"Well," said Captain North, as we stepped on deck, "if the diamond's already hidden, which
I doubt, it couldn't be more snugly concealed if it were twenty fathoms deep in the mud here."

The Major's baggage came on board on the Saturday, and on the Monday we sailed. We were twenty-four
of a ship's company all told: twenty-five souls in all, with Major Hood. Our second mate was
a man named Mackenzie, to whom and to the apprentices whilst we lay in the river I had given
particular instructions to keep a sharp look-out on all strangers coming aboard. I had been
very vigilant myself too, and altogether was quite convinced there was no stowaway below, either
white or black, though under ordinary circumstances one never would think of seeking for a
native in hiding for Europe.

On either hand of the Jessamy Bride's cabin five sleeping berths were bulkheaded off. The Major's
was right aft on the starboard side. Mine was next his. The captain occupied a berth corresponding
with the Major's, right aft on the port side. Our solitary passenger was exceedingly amiable
and agreeable at the start and for days after. He professed himself delighted with the cabin
fare, and said it was not to be bettered at three times the charge in the saloons of the steamers.
His drink he had himself laid in: it consisted mainly of claret and soda. He had come aboard
with a large cargo of Indian cigars, and was never without a long, black weed, bearing some
tongue-staggering, up-country name, betwixt his lips. He was primed with professional anecdote,
had a thorough knowledge of life in India, both in the towns and wilds, had seen service in
Burmah and China, and was altogether one of the most conversible soldiers I ever met: a scholar,
something of a wit, and all that he said and all that he did was rendered the more engaging
by grace of breeding.

Captain North declared to me he had never met so delightful a man in all his life, and the
pleasantest hours I ever passed on the ocean were spent in walking the deck in conversation
with Major Byron Hood.

For some days after we were at sea no reference was made either by the Major or ourselves to
the Maharajah of Ratnagiri's splendid gift to Her Majesty the Queen. The captain and I and
Mackenzie viewed it as tabooed matter: a thing to be locked up in memory, just as, in fact,
it was hidden away in some cunningly-wrought receptacle in the Major's cabin. One day at dinner,
however, when we were about a week out from Calcutta, Major Hood spoke of the Maharajah's gift.
He talked freely about it; his face was flushed as though the mere thought of the thing raised
a passion of triumph in his spirits. His eyes shone whilst he enlarged upon the beauty and
value of the stone.

The captain and I exchanged looks; the steward was waiting upon us with cocked ears, and that
menial, deaf expression of face which makes you know every word is being greedily listened
to. We might therefore make sure that before the first dog-watch came round all hands would
have heard that the Major had a diamond in his cabin intended for the Queen of England, and
worth fifteen thousand pounds. Nay, they'd hear even more than that; for in the course of his
talk about the gem the Major praised the ingenuity of the Asiatic artisan, whether Indian or
Chinese, and spoke of the hiding-place the two natives had contrived for the diamond as an
example of that sort of juggling skill in carving which is found in perfection amongst the
Japanese.

I thought this candour highly indiscreet: charged too with menace. A matter gains in significance
by mystery. The Jacks would think nothing of a diamond being in the ship as a part of her cargo,
which might include a quantity of specie for all they knew. But some of them might think more
often about it than was at all desirable when they understood it was stowed away under a plank,
or was to be got by tapping about for a hollow echo, or probing with the judgment of a carpenter
when the Major was on deck and the coast aft all clear.

We had been three weeks at sea; it was a roasting afternoon, though I cannot exactly remember
the situation of the ship. Our tacks were aboard and the bowlines triced out, and the vessel
was scarcely looking up to her course, slightly heeling away from a fiery fanning of wind off
the starboard bow, with the sea trembling under the sun in white-hot needles of broken light,
and a narrow ribbon of wake glancing off into a hot blue thickness that brought the horizon
within a mile of us astern.

I had charge of the deck from twelve to four. For an hour past the Major, cigar in mouth, had
been stretched at his ease in a folding chair; a book lay beside him on the skylight, but he
scarcely glanced at it. I had paused to address him once or twice, but he showed no disposition
to chat. Though he lay in the most easy lounging posture imaginable, I observed a restless,
singular expression in his face, accentuated yet by the looks he incessantly directed out to
sea, or glances at the deck forward, or around at the helm, so far as he might move his head
without shifting his attitude. It was as though his mind were in labour with some scheme. A
man might so look whilst working out the complicated plot of a play, or adjusting by the exertion
of his memory the intricacies of a novel piece of mechanism.

On a sudden he started up and went below.

A few minutes after he had left the deck, Captain North came up from his cabin, and for some
while we paced the planks together. There was a pleasant hush upon the ship; the silence was
as refreshing as a fold of coolness lifting off the sea. A spun-yarn winch was clinking on
the forecastle; from alongside rose the music of fretted waters.

I was talking to the captain on some detail of the ship's furniture; when Major Hood came running
up the companion steps, his face as white as his waistcoat, his head uncovered, every muscle
of his countenance rigid, as with horror.

"Good God, captain!" cried he, standing in the companion, "what do you think has happened?"
Before we could fetch a breath he cried: "Someone's stolen the diamond!"

I glanced at the helmsman who stood at the radiant circle of wheel staring with open mouth
and eyebrows arched into his hair. The captain, stepping close to Major Hood, said in a low,
steady voice:--

"What's this you tell me, sir?"

"The diamond's gone!" exclaimed the Major, fixing his shining eyes upon me, whilst I observed
that his fingers convulsively stroked his thumbs as though he were rolling up pellets of bread
or paper.

"Do you tell me the diamond's been taken from the place you hid it in?" said Captain North,
still speaking softly, but with deliberation.

"The diamond never was hidden," replied the Major, who continued to stare at me. "It was in
a portmanteau. That's no hiding-place!"

Captain North fell back a step. "Never was hidden!" he exclaimed. "Didn't you bring two native
workmen aboard for no other purpose than to hide it?"

"It never was hidden," said the Major, now turning his eyes upon the captain. "I chose it should
be believed it was undiscoverably concealed in some part of my cabin, that I might safely and
conveniently keep it in my baggage, where no thief would dream of looking for it. Who has it?"
he cried with a sudden fierceness, making a step full of passion out of the companion-way;
and he looked under knitted brows towards the ship's forecastle.

Captain North watched him idly for a moment or two, and then with an abrupt swing of his whole
figure, eloquent of defiant resolution, he stared the Major in the face, and said in a quiet,
level voice:--

"I shan't be able to help you. If it's gone, it's gone. A diamond's not a bale of wool. Whoever's
been clever enough to find it will know how to keep it."

"I must have it!" broke out the Major. "It's a gift for Her Majesty the Queen. It's in this
ship. I look to you, sir, as master of this vessel, to recover the property which some one
of the people under your charge has robbed me of!"

"I'll accompany you to your cabin," said the captain; and they went down the steps.

I stood motionless, gaping like an idiot into the yawn of hatch down which they had disappeared.
I had been so used to think of the diamond as cunningly hidden in the Major's berth, that his
disclosure was absolutely a shock with its weight of astonishment. Small wonder that neither
Captain North nor I had observed any marks of a workman's tools in the Major's berth. Not but
that it was a very ingenious stratagem, far cleverer to my way of thinking than any subtle,
secret burial of the thing. To think of the Major and his two Indians sitting idly for hours
in that cabin, with the captain and myself all the while supposing they were fashioning some
wonderful contrivance or place for concealing the treasure in! And still, for all the Major's
cunning, the stone was gone! Who had stolen it? The only fellow likely to prove the thief was
the steward, not because he was more or less of a rogue than any other man in the ship, but
because he was the one person who, by virtue of his office, was privileged to go in and out
of the sleeping places as his duties required.

I was pacing the deck, musing into a sheer muddle this singular business of the Maharajah of
Ratnagiri's gift to the Queen of England, with all sorts of dim, unformed suspicions floating
loose in my brains round the central fancy of the fifteen thousand pound stone there, when
the captain returned. He was alone. He stepped up to me hastily, and said:--

"He swears the diamond has been stolen. He showed me the empty case."

"Was there ever a stone in it at all?" said I.

"I don't think that," he answered, quickly; "there's no motive under Heaven to be imagined
if the whole thing's a fabrication."

"What then, sir?"

"The case is empty, but I've not made up my mind yet that the stone's missing."

"The man's an officer and a gentleman."

"I know, I know!" he interrupted, "but still, in my opinion, the stone's not missing. The long
and short of it is," he said, after a very short pause, with a careful glance at the skylight
and companion hatch, "his behaviour isn't convincing enough. Something's wanting in his passion
and his vexation."

"Sincerity!"

"Ah! I don't intend that this business shall trouble me. He angrily required me to search the
ship for stowaways. Bosh! The second mate and steward have repeatedly overhauled the lazarette:
there's nobody there."

"And if not there, then nowhere else," said I. "Perhaps he's got the forepeak in his head."

"I'll not have a hatch lifted," he exclaimed, warmly, "nor will I allow the crew to be troubled.
There's been no theft. Put it that the stone is stolen. Who's going to find it in a forecastle
full of men--a thing as big as half a bean perhaps? If it's gone, it's gone, indeed, whoever
may have it. But there's no go in this matter at all," he added, with a short, nervous laugh.

We were talking in this fashion when the Major joined us; his features were now composed. He
gazed sternly at the captain and said, loftily:--

"What steps are you prepared to take in this matter?"

"None, sir."

His face darkened. He looked with a bright gleam in his eyes at the captain, then at me: his
gaze was piercing with the light in it. Without a word he stepped to the side and, folding
his arms, stood motionless.

I glanced at the captain; there was something in the bearing of the Major that gave shape,
vague indeed, to a suspicion that had cloudily hovered about my thoughts of the man for some
time past. The captain met my glance, but he did not interpret it.

When I was relieved at four o'clock by the second mate, I entered my berth, and presently,
hearing the captain go to his cabin, went to him and made a proposal. He reflected, and then
answered:--

"Yes; get it done."

After some talk I went forward and told the carpenter to step aft and bore a hole in the bulkhead
that separated the Major's berth from mine. He took the necessary tools from his chest and
followed me. The captain was now again on deck, talking with the Major; in fact, detaining
him in conversation, as had been preconcerted. I went into the Major's berth, and quickly settled
upon a spot for an eye-hole. The carpenter then went to work in my cabin, and in a few minutes
bored an orifice large enough to enable me to command a large portion of the adjacent interior.
I swept the sawdust from the deck in the Major's berth, so that no hint should draw his attention
to the hole, which was pierced in a corner shadowed by a shelf. I then told the carpenter to
manufacture a plug and paint its extremity of the colour of the bulkhead. He brought me this
plug in a quarter of an hour. It fitted nicely, and was to be withdrawn and inserted as noiselessly
as though greased.

I don't want you to suppose this Peeping-Tom scheme was at all to my taste, albeit my own proposal;
but the truth is, the Major's telling us that someone had stolen his diamond made all who lived
aft hotly eager to find out whether he spoke the truth or not; for, if he had been really robbed
of the stone, then suspicion properly rested upon the officers and the steward, which was an
infernal consideration: dishonouring and inflaming enough to drive one to seek a remedy in
even a baser device than that of secretly keeping watch on a man in his bedroom. Then, again,
the captain told me that the Major, whilst they talked when the carpenter was at work making
the hole, had said he would give notice of his loss to the police at Cape Town (at which place
we were to touch), and declared he'd take care no man went ashore--from Captain North himself
down to the youngest apprentice--till every individual, every sea-chest, every locker, drawer,
shelf and box, bunk, bracket and crevice had been searched by qualified rummagers.

On this the day of the theft, nothing more was said about the diamond: that is, after the captain
had emphatically informed Major Hood that he meant to take no steps whatever in the matter.
I had expected to find the Major sullen and silent at dinner; he was not, indeed, so talkative
as usual, but no man watching and hearing him would have supposed so heavy a loss as that of
a stone worth fifteen thousand pounds, the gift of an Eastern potentate to the Queen of England,
was weighing upon his spirits.

It is with reluctance I tell you that, after dinner that day, when he went to his cabin, I
softly withdrew the plug and watched him. I blushed whilst thus acting, yet I was determined,
for my own sake and for the sake of my shipmates, to persevere. I spied nothing noticeable
saving this: he sat in a folding chair and smoked, but every now and again he withdrew his
cigar from his mouth and talked to it with a singular smile. It was a smile of cunning, that
worked like some baleful, magical spirit in the fine high breeding of his features; changing
his looks just as a painter of incomparable skill might colour a noble, familiar face into
a diabolical expression, amazing those who knew it only in its honest and manly beauty. I had
never seen that wild, grinning countenance on him before, and it was rendered the more remarkable
by the movement of his lips whilst he talked to himself, but inaudibly.

A week slipped by; time after time I had the man under observation; often when I had charge
of the deck I'd leave the captain to keep a look out, and steal below and watch Major Hood
in his cabin.

It was a Sunday, I remember. I was lying in my bunk half dozing--we were then, I think, about
a three-weeks' sail from Table Bay--when I heard the Major go to his cabin. I was already sick
of my aimless prying; and whilst I now lay I thought to myself: "I'll sleep; what is the good
of this trouble? I know exactly what I shall see. He is either in his chair, or his bunk, or
overhauling his clothes, or standing, cigar in mouth, at the open porthole." And then I said
to myself: "If I don't look now I shall miss the only opportunity of detection that may occur."
One is often urged by a sort of instinct in these matters.

I got up, almost as through an impulse of habit, noiselessly withdrew the plug, and looked.
The Major was at that instant standing with a pistol-case in his hand: he opened it as my sight
went to him, took out one of a brace of very elegant pistols, put down the case, and on his
apparently touching a spring in the butt of the pistol, the silver plate that ornamented the
extremity sprang open as the lid of a snuff-box would, and something small and bright dropped
into his hand. This he examined with the peculiar cunning smile I have before described; but
owing to the position of his hand, I could not see what he held, though I had not the least
doubt that it was the diamond.

I watched him breathlessly. After a few minutes he dropped the stone into the hollow butt-end,
shut the silver plate, shook the weapon against his ear as though it pleased him to rattle
the stone, then put it in its case, and the case into a portmanteau.

I at once went on deck, where I found the captain, and reported to him what I had seen. He
viewed me in silence, with a stare of astonishment and incredulity. What I had seen, he said,
was not the diamond. I told him the thing that had dropped into the Major's hand was bright,
and, as I thought, sparkled, but it was so held I could not see it.

I was talking to him on this extraordinary affair when the Major came on deck. The captain
said to me: "Hold him in chat. I'll judge for myself," and asked me to describe how he might
quickly find the pistol-case. This I did, and he went below.

I joined the Major, and talked on the first subjects that entered my head. He was restless
in his manner, inattentive, slightly flushed in the face; wore a lofty manner, and being half
a head taller than I, glanced down at me from time to time in a condescending way. This behaviour
in him was what Captain North and I had agreed to call his "injured air." He'd occasionally
put it on to remind us that he was affronted by the captain's insensibility to his loss, and
that the assistance of the police would be demanded on our arrival at Cape Town.

Presently looking down the skylight, I perceived the captain. Mackenzie had charge of the watch.
I descended the steps, and Captain North's first words to me were:--

"It's no diamond!"

"What, then, is it?"

"A common piece of glass not worth a quarter of a farthing."

"What's it all about, then?" said I. "Upon my soul, there's nothing in Euclid to beat it. Glass?"

"A little lump of common glass; a fragment of bull's-eye, perhaps."

"What's he hiding it for?"

"Because," said Captain North, in a soft voice, looking up and around, "he's mad!"

"Just so!" said I. "That I'll swear to now, and I've been suspecting it this fortnight past."

"He's under the spell of some sort of mania," continued the captain; "he believes he's commissioned
to present a diamond to the Queen; possibly picked up a bit of stuff in the street that started
the delusion, then bought a case for it, and worked out the rest as we know."

"But why does he want to pretend that the stone was stolen from him?"

"He's been mastered by his own love for the diamond," he answered. "That's how I reason it.
Madness has made his affection for his imaginary gem a passion in him."

"And so he robbed himself of it, you think, that he might keep it?"

"That's about it," said he.

After this I kept no further look-out upon the Major, nor would I ever take an opportunity
to enter his cabin to view for myself the piece of glass as the captain described it, though
curiosity was often hot in me.

We arrived at Table Bay in twenty-two days from the date of my seeing the Major with the pistol
in his hand. His manner had for a week before been marked by an irritability that was often
beyond his control. He had talked snappishly and petulantly at table, contradicted aggressively,
and on two occasions gave Captain North the lie; but we had carefully avoided noticing his
manner, and acted as though he were still the high bred, polished gentleman who had sailed
with us from Calcutta.

The first to come aboard were the Customs people. They were almost immediately followed by
the harbour-master. Scarcely had the first of the Custom House officers stepped over the side
when Major Hood, with a very red face, and a lofty, dignified carriage, marched up to him,
and said in a loud voice:--

"I have been robbed during the passage from Calcutta of a diamond worth fifteen thousand pounds,
which I was bearing as a gift from the Maharajah of Ratnagiri to Her Majesty the Queen of England."

The Customs man stared with a lobster-like expression of face: no image could better hit the
protruding eyes and brick-red countenance of the man.

"I request," continued the Major, raising his voice into a shout, "to be placed at once in
communication with the police at this port. No person must be allowed to leave the vessel until
he has been thoroughly searched by such expert hands as you and your confrères no doubt are,
sir. I am Major Byron Hood. I have been twice wounded. My services are well known, and I believe
duly appreciated in the right quarters. Her Majesty the Queen is not to suffer any disappointment
at the hands of one who has the honour of wearing her uniform, nor am I to be compelled, by
the act of a thief, to betray the confidence the Maharajah has reposed in me."

He continued to harangue in this manner for some minutes, during which I observed a change
in the expression of the Custom House officers' faces.

Meanwhile Captain North stood apart in earnest conversation with the harbour-master. They now
approached; the harbour-master, looking steadily at the Major, exclaimed:--

"Good news, sir! Your diamond is found!"

"Ha!" shouted the Major. "Who has it?"

"You'll find it in your pistol-case," said the harbour-master.

The Major gazed round at us with his wild, bright eyes, with a face a-work with the conflict
of twenty mad passions and sensations. Then bursting into a loud, insane laugh, he caught the
harbour-master by the arm, and in a low voice and a sickening, transforming leer of cunning,
said: "Come, let's go and look at it."

We went below. We were six, including two Custom House officers. We followed the poor madman,
who grasped the harbour-master's arm, and on arriving at his cabin we stood at the door of
it. He seemed heedless of our presence, but on his taking the pistol-case from the portmanteau,
the two Customs men sprang forward.

"That must be searched by us," one cried, and in a minute they had it.

With the swiftness of experienced hands they found and pressed the spring of the pistol, the
silver plate flew open, and out dropped a fragment of thick, common glass, just as Captain
North had described the thing. It fell upon the deck. The Major sprang, picked it up, and pocketed
it.

"Her Majesty will not be disappointed, after all," said he, with a courtly bow to us, "and
the commission the Maharajah's honoured me with shall be fulfilled."

       *       *       *       *       *

The poor gentleman was taken ashore that afternoon, and his luggage followed him. He was certified
mad by the medical man at Cape Town, and was to be retained there, as I understood, till the
arrival of a steamer for England. It was an odd, bewildering incident from top to bottom. No
doubt this particular delusion was occasioned by the poor fellow, whose mind was then fast
decaying, reading about the transmission of the Koh-i-noor, and musing about it with a mad-man's
proneness to dwell upon little things.

PECULIAR PLAYING CARDS.

By

George Clulow

II.

The "foolish business" of Heraldry has supplied the motive for numerous packs of cards. Two
only, however, can be here shown, though there are instructive examples of the latter half
of the seventeenth and beginning of the eighteenth centuries from England, Scotland, France,
Germany, and Italy. The example given in Fig. 16 is English, of the date of 1690, and the fifty-two
cards of the pack give us the arms of the different European States, and of the peers of England
and Scotland. A pack similar to this was engraved by Walter Scott, the Edinburgh goldsmith,
in 1691, and is confined to the Arms of England, Scotland, Ireland, France, and the great Scottish
families of that date, prepared under the direction of the Lyon King of Arms, Sir Alexander
Erskine. The French heraldic example (Fig. 17) is from a pack of the time of Louis XIV., with
the arms of the French nobility and the nobles of other European countries; the "suit" signs
of the pack being "Fleur de Lis," "Lions," "Roses," and "Eagles."

Caligraphy, even, has not been left without recognition, for we have a pack, published in Nuremberg,
in 1767, giving examples of written characters and of free-hand pen drawing, to serve as writing
copies. We show the Nine of Hearts from this pack (Fig. 18), and the eighteenth century South
German graphic idea of a Highlander of the period is amusing, and his valorous attitude is
sufficiently satisfying.

Biography has, too, its place in this playing-card cosmography, though it has not many examples.
The one we give (Fig. 19) is German, of about 1730, and is from a pack which depicts a series
of heads of Emperors, poets, and historians, Greek and Roman--a summary of their lives and
occurrences therein gives us their raison d'être.

Of Geographical playing cards there are several examples in the second half of the seventeenth
century. The one selected for illustration (Fig. 20) gives a sectional map of one of the English
counties, each of the fifty-two cards of the pack having the map of a county of England and
Wales, with its geographical limitations. These are among the more rare of old playing cards,
and their gradual destruction when used as educational media will, as in the case of horn-books,
and early children's books generally, account for this rarity. Perhaps the most interesting
geographical playing cards which have survived this common fate, though they are the ultima
rarissima of such cards, is the pack designed and engraved by H. Winstanley, "at Littlebury,
in Essex," as we read on the Ace of Hearts. They appear to have been intended to afford instruction
in geography and ethnology. Each of the cards has a descriptive account of one of the States
or great cities of the world, and we have taken the King of Hearts (Fig. 21), with its description
of England and the English, as the most interesting.

The date of the pack is about 1685, and it has an added interest from the fact that its designer
was the projector of the first Eddystone Lighthouse, where he perished when it was destroyed
by a great storm in 1703.

Music, too, is not forgotten, though on playing cards it is seen in smaller proportion than
other of the arts. To the popularity of the "Beggar's Opera" of John Gay, that satirical attack
upon the Government of Sir Robert Walpole, we are indebted for its songs and music appearing
as the motif of the pack, from which we give here the Queen of Spades (Fig. 22), and the well-thumbed
cards before us show that they were popular favourites. Their date may be taken as nearly coincident
with that of the opera itself, viz., 1728. A further example of musical cards is given in Fig.
23, from a French pack of 1830, with its pretty piece of costume headgear, and its characteristic
waltz music.

France has been prolific in what may be termed "Cartes de fantaisie," burlesque and satirical,
not always designed, however, with due regard to the refinements of well-behaved communities.
They are always spirited, and as specimens of inventive adaptation are worth notice. The example
shown (Fig. 24) is from a pack of the year 1818, and is good of its class.

Of these "Cartes de fantaisie," each of the card-producing countries of Europe has at different
dates produced examples of varying degrees of artistic value. Although not the best in point
of merit, the most generally attractive of these are the packs produced in the years 1806-7-8
and 9, by the Tübingen bookseller, Cotta, and which were published in book form, as the "Karten
Almanack," and also as ordinary packs. Every card has a design, in which the suit signs, or
"pips," are brought in as an integral part, and admirable ingenuity is displayed in this adaptation;
although not the best in the series, we give the Six of Hearts (Fig. 25), as lending itself
best to the purpose of reproduction, and as affording a fair instance of the method of design.

In England numerous examples of these illustrated playing cards have been produced of varying
degrees of artistic merit, and, as one of the most amusing, we select the Knave of Spades from
a pack of the year 1824 (Fig. 26). These cards are printed from copper-plates, and are coloured
by hand, and show much ingenuity in the adaptation of the design to the form of the "pips."

Of the same class, but with more true artistic feeling and treatment than the preceding, we
give the Deuce of Clubs, from a pack with London Cries (Fig. 27), and another with Fables (Fig.
28), both of which date from the earlier years of the last century, the former with the quaint
costume and badge of a waterman, with his cry of "Oars! oars! do you want a boat?" In the middle
distance the piers of Old London Bridge, and the house at its foot with overhanging gallery,
make a pleasing old-time picture. The "Fables" cards are apparently from the designs of Francis
Barlow, and are probably engraved by him; although we find upon some of them the name of J.
Kirk, who, however, was the seller of the cards only, and who, as was not uncommon with the
vendor of that time, in this way robbed the artist of what honour might belong to his work.
Both of these packs are rare; that of the "Fables" is believed to be unique. Of a date some
quarter of a century antecedent to those just described we have an amusing pack, in which each
card has a collection of moral sentences, aphorisms, or a worldly-wise story, or--we regret
in the interests of good behaviour to have to add--something very much the reverse of them.
The larger portion of the card is occupied by a picture of considerable excellence in illustration
of the text; and notwithstanding the peculiarity to which we have referred as attaching to
some of them, the cards are very interesting as studies of costume and of the manners of the
time--of what served to amuse our ancestors two centuries ago--and is a curious compound survival
of Puritan teaching and the license of the Restoration period. We give one of them in Fig. 29.

The Ace of Clubs, shown in Fig. 30, is from a pack issued in Amsterdam about 1710, and is a
good example of the Dutch burlesque cards of the eighteenth century. The majority of them have
local allusions, the meaning of which is now lost; and many of them are of a character which
will not bear reproduction. A better-known pack of Dutch cards is that satirizing the Mississippi
scheme of 1716, and the victims of the notorious John Law--the "bubble" which, on its collapse,
four years later, brought ruin to so many thousands.

Our space forbids the treatment of playing cards under any but their pictorial aspects, though
the temptation is great to attempt some description of their use from an early period as instruments
of divination or fortune telling, for which in the hands of the "wise man" or woman of various
countries they are still used, and to which primary purpose the early "Tarots" were doubtless
applied; but, as it is among the more curious of such cards, we give the Queen of Hearts from
a pack of the immediate post-Commonwealth period (Fig. 31). The figure is called Semiramis--without,
so far as can be seen, any reason. It is one of a mélange of names for cards in which Wat Tyler
and Tycho Brahe rub shoulders in the suit of Spades, and Mahomet and Nimrod in that of Diamonds!
In the pack we find the Knave of Clubs named "Hewson" (not the card-maker of that name), but
he who is satirized by Butler as "Hewson the Cobbler." Elsewhere he is called "One-eyed Hewson."
He is shown with but one eye in the card bearing his name, and as it is contemporary, it may
be a fair presentment of the man who, whatever his vices, managed under Cromwell to obtain
high honours, and who was by him nominated a member of the House of Lords. The bitter prejudice
of the time is shown in the story which is told of Hewson, that on the day the King was beheaded
he rode from Charing Cross to the Royal Exchange proclaiming that "whoever should say that
Charles Stuart died wrongfully should suffer death." Among the quasi-educational uses of playing
cards we find the curious work of Dr. Thomas Murner, whose "Logica Memorativa Chartiludium,"
published at Strassburg in 1507, is the earliest instance known to us of a distinct application
of playing cards to education, though the author expressly disclaims any knowledge of cards.
The method used by the Doctor was to make each card an aid to memory, though the method must
have been a severe strain of memory in itself. One of them is here given (Fig. 32), the suit
being the German one of Bells (Schnellen).

It would seem that hardly any branch of human knowledge had been overlooked in the adaptation
of playing cards to an educational purpose, and they who still have them in mind under the
designation of "the Devil's books," may be relieved to know that Bible history has been taught
by the means of playing cards. In 1603 there was published a Bible History and Chronology,
under the title of the "Geistliche Karten Spiel," where, much as Murner did in the instance
we have given above, the cards were used as an aid to memory, the author giving to each of
the suit signs the distinctive appellation of some character or incident in Holy Writ. And
more recently Zuccarelli, one of the original members of our Royal Academy, designed and etched
a pack of cards with the same intention.

In Southern Germany we find in the last century playing cards specially prepared for gifts
at weddings and for use at the festivities attending such events. These cards bore conventional
representations of the bride, the bridegroom, the musicians, the priest, and the guests, on
horseback or in carriages, each with a laudatory inscription. The card shown in Fig. 33 is
from a pack of this kind of about 1740, the Roman numeral I. indicating it as the first in
a series of "Tarots" numbered consecutively from I. to XXI., the usual Tarot designs being
replaced by the wedding pictures described above. The custom of presenting guests with a pack
of cards has been followed by the Worshipful Company of Makers of Playing Cards, who at their
annual banquet give to their guests samples of the productions of the craft with which they
are identified, which are specially designed for the occasion.

To conclude this article--much too limited to cover so interesting a subject--we give an illustration
(Fig. 34) from a pack of fifty-two playing cards of silver--every card being engraved upon
a thin plate of that metal. They are probably the work of a late sixteenth century German goldsmith,
and are exquisite examples of design and skill with the graver. They are in the possession
of a well-known collector of all things beautiful, curious, and rare, by whose courteous permission
this unique example appears here.

Portraits of Celebrities at Different Times of their Lives.

LORD HOUGHTON.

BORN 1858.

Lord Houghton, whose appointment to the post of Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland came somewhat as
a surprise, is a Yorkshire landowner, and a son of the peer so well known both in literary
and social circles as Richard Monckton Milnes, whose poems and prose writings alike will long
keep his memory alive. This literary faculty has descended to the present peer, his recent
volume of poems having been received by the best critics as bearing evidence of a true poetic
gift. Lord Houghton, who served as a Lord-in-Waiting in Mr. Gladstone's Government of 1886,
is a rich man and the reputed heir of Lord Crewe; he has studied and travelled, and has taken
some share, though hitherto not a very prominent one, in politics. He is a widower, and his
sister presides over his establishment.

JOHN PETTIE, R.A.

BORN 1839.

Mr. John Pettie was born in Edinburgh, and exhibited his earliest works in the Royal Scottish
Academy. He came to London at the age of twenty-three, and at the age of twenty-seven was elected
an A.R.A. His election to the distinction of R.A. took place when he was thirty-four, in the
place of Sir Edwin Landseer. Mr. Pettie's portraits and historical pictures are within the
knowledge of every reader--his armour, carbines, lances, broadswords, and pistols are well-known
features in every year's Academy--for his subjects are chiefly scenes of battle and of military
life. His first picture hung in the Royal Academy was "The Armourers," He has also painted
many subjects from Shakespeare's works; his "Scene in the Temple Gardens" being one of his
most popular productions. "The Death Warrant" represents an episode in the career of the consumptive
little son of Henry VIII. and Jane Seymour. In "Two Strings to His Bow," Mr. Pettie showed
a considerable sense of humour.

THE DUCHESS OF TECK.

Princess Mary Adelaide, daughter of H.R.H. Prince Adolphus Frederick, Duke of Cambridge, the
seventh son of His Majesty King George III., married on June 12th, 1866, H.S.H. the Duke of
Teck, whose portrait at different ages we have the pleasure of presenting on the opposite page.
The Duchess of Teck and her daughter Princess Victoria are well known and esteemed far beyond
their own circle of society for their interest in works of charity and the genuine kindness
of heart, which render them ever ready to enter into schemes of benevolence. We may remind
our readers that a charming series of portraits of Princess Victoria of Teck appeared in our
issue of February, 1892.

THE DUKE OF TECK.

BORN 1837.

His Serene Highness Francis Paul Charles Louis Alexander, G.C.B., Prince and Duke of Teck,
is the only son of Duke Alexander of Würtemberg and the Countess Claudine Rhédy and Countess
of Hohenstein, a lady of a most illustrious but not princely house. It is not generally known
that a family law, which decrees that the son of a marriage between a prince of the Royal Family
of Würtemberg and a lady not of princely birth, however nobly born, cannot inherit the crown,
alone prevents the Duke of Teck from being King of Würtemberg. The Duke of Teck has served
with distinction in the Army, having received the Egyptian medal and the Khedive's star, together
with the rank of colonel.

REV. H. R. HAWEIS, M.A.

BORN 1838.

The Reverend Hugh Reginald Haweis, preacher, lecturer, journalist, musician, was born at Egham,
his father being the Rev. J. O. W. Haweis, rector of Slaugham, Sussex. He was educated at Trinity
College, Cambridge, and appointed in 1866 incumbent of St. James's, Marylebone. He has been
an indefatigable advocate of the Sunday opening of museums, and a frequent lecturer at the
Royal Institution, notably on violins, church bells, and American humorists. He also took a
great interest in the Italian Revolution.

FREDERIC H. COWEN.

BORN 1852.

Mr. F. H. Cowen, whose new opera will appear about the same time as these portraits, was born
at Kingston, in Jamaica, and showed at a very early age so much musical talent that it was
decided he should follow music as a career, with what excellent results is known to all musicians.
His more important works comprise five cantatas, "The Rose Maiden," "The Corsair," "Saint Ursula,"
"The Sleeping Beauty," and "St. John's Eve," several symphonies, the opera "Thorgrim," considered
his finest work, and over two hundred songs and ballads, many of which have attained great
popularity.

The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes.

XV.--THE ADVENTURE OF THE YELLOW FACE.

BY A. CONAN DOYLE. Now and again, however, it chanced that even when he erred the truth was
still discovered. Halloa! that's not your pipe on the table! He must have left his behind him.
Why, it is quite a branch of trade the putting of sham flies into the sham amber. It had been
too far from me for that. But its colour was what had impressed me most.

"'I am your neighbour over yonder,' said I, nodding towards my house.

"'Oh, Jack!' she said, 'I have just been in to see if I can be of any assistance to our new
neighbours.

"Not to my knowledge."

"Thank you. She fled from him at last, returned to England, changed her name, and started her
life, as she thought, afresh. At present we can do nothing until we have a fresh message from
our friend at Norbury."

But we had not very long to wait. It came just as we had finished our tea. "The cottage is
still tenanted," it said. "Have seen the face again at the window. He pushed her to one side
and we followed closely after him.

Illustrated Interviews.

No. XX.--DR. BARNARDO, F.R.C.S. Ed.

When it is remembered that the Homes founded and governed by Dr. Barnardo comprise fifty distinct
institutions; that since the foundation of the first Home, twenty-eight years ago, in Stepney,
over 22,000 boys and girls have been rescued from positions of almost indescribable danger;
that to-day five thousand orphans and destitute children, constituting the largest family in
the world, are being cared for, trained, and put on a different footing to that of shoeless
and stockingless, it will be at once understood that a definite and particular direction must
be chosen in which to allow one's thoughts and investigations to travel. I immediately select
the babies--the little ones of five years old and under; and it is possible that ere the last
words of this paper are written, the Doctor may have disappeared from these pages, and we may
find ourselves in fancy romping and playing with the babes in the green fields--one day last
summer.

There is no misjudging the character of Dr. Barnardo--there is no misinterpreting his motives.
Somewhat below the medium height, strong and stoutly built, with an expression at times a little
severe, but with benevolent-looking eyes, which immediately scatter the lines of severity:
he at once impresses you as a man of immovable disposition and intentions not to be cast aside.
He sets his heart on having a thing done. It is done. He conceives some new departure of rescue
work. There is no rest for him until it is accomplished. His rapidity of speech tells of continual
activity of mind. He is essentially a business man--he needs must be. He takes a waif in hand,
and makes a man or woman of it in a very few years. Why should the child's unparentlike parent
now come forward and claim it once more for a life of misery and probable crime? Dr. Barnardo
thinks long before he would snap the parental ties between mother and child; but if neglect,
cruelty, or degradation towards her offspring have been the chief evidences of her relationship,
nothing in the wide world would stop him from taking the little one up and holding it fast.

I sat down to chat over the very wide subject of child rescue in Dr. Barnardo's cosy room at
Stepney Causeway. It was a bitter cold night outside, the streets were frozen, the snow falling.
In an hour's time we were to start for the slums--to see baby life in the vicinity of Flower
and Dean Street, Brick Lane, and Wentworth Street--all typical localities where the fourpenny
lodging-house still refuses to be crushed by model dwellings. Over the comforting fire we talked
about a not altogether uneventful past.

Dr. Barnardo was born in 1845, in Dublin. Although an Irishman by birth, he is not so by blood.
He is really of Spanish descent, as his name suggests.

"I can never recollect the time," he said, "when the face and the voice of a child has not
had power to draw me aside from everything else. Naturally, I have always had a passionate
love for children. Their helplessness, their innocence, and, in the case of waif children,
their misery, constitute, I feel, an irresistible appeal to every humane heart.

"I remember an incident which occurred to me at a very early age, and which made a great impression
upon me.

"One day, when coming home from school, I saw standing on the margin of the pavement a woman
in miserable attire, with a wretched-looking baby in her arms. I was then only a schoolboy
of eleven years old, but the sight made me very unhappy. I remember looking furtively every
way to see if I was observed, and then emptying my pockets--truly they had not much in them--into
the woman's hands. But sauntering on, I could not forget the face of the baby--it fascinated
me; so I had to go back, and in a low voice suggested to the woman that if she would follow
me home I would try to get her something more.

"Fortunately, I was able to let her into the hall without attracting much attention, and then
went down to the cook on my errand. I forget what was done, except that I know a good meal
was given to the 'mother' and some milk to the baby. Just then an elder sister of mine came
into the hall, and was attracted as I had been to the infant; but observing the woman she suddenly
called out: 'Why, you are the woman I have spoken to twice before, and this is a different
baby; this is the third you have had!'

"And so it came to pass that I had my first experience of a beggar's shifts. The child was
not hers; she had borrowed it, or hired it, and it was, as my sister said, the third in succession
she had had within a couple of months. So I was somewhat humiliated as 'mother' and infant
were quietly, but quickly, passed out through the hall door into the street, and I learned
my first lesson that the best way to help the poor is not necessarily to give money to the
first beggar you meet in the street, although it is well to always keep a tender heart for
the sufferings of children."

"Hire babies! Borrow babies!" I interrupted.

"Yes," replied the Doctor, "and buy them, too. I know of several lodging-houses where I could
hire a baby from fourpence to a shilling a day. The prettier the child is the better; should
it happen to be a cripple, or possessing particularly thin arms and face, it is always worth
a shilling. Little girls always demand a higher price than boys. I knew of one woman--her supposed
husband sells chickweed and groundsel--who has carried a baby exactly the same size for the
last nine or ten years! I myself have, in days gone by, bought children in order to rescue
them. Happily, such a step is now not needful, owing to changes in the law, which enable us
to get possession of such children by better methods. For one girl I paid 10s. 6d., whilst
my very first purchase cost me 7s. 6d. It was for a little boy and girl baby--brother and sister.
The latter was tied up in a bundle. The woman--whom I found sitting on a door-step--offered
to sell the boy for a trifle, half-a-crown, but not the mite of a girl, as she was 'her living.'
However, I rescued them both, for the sum I have mentioned. In another case I got a poor little
creature of two years of age--I can see her now, with arms no thicker than my finger--from
her drunken 'guardian' for a shilling. When it came to washing the waif--what clothes it had
on consisted of nothing but knots and strings; they had not been untied for weeks, perhaps
months, and had to be cut off with a pair of scissors--we found something tied round its waist,
to which the child constantly stretched out its wasted fingers and endeavoured to raise to
its lips. On examination it proved to be an old fish-bone wrapped in a piece of cotton, which
must have been at least a month old. Yet you must remember that these 'purchases' are quite
exceptional cases, as my children have, for the most part, been obtained by legitimate means."

Yes, these little mites arrive at Stepney somewhat strangely at times. A child was sent from
Newcastle in a hamper. It bore a small tablet on the wicker basket which read: "To Dr. Barnardo,
London. With care." The little girl arrived quite safe and perfectly sound. But the most remarkable
instance of all was that of little Frank. Few children reach Dr. Barnardo whose antecedents
cannot be traced and their history recorded in the volumes kept for this purpose. But Frankie
remains one of the unknown. Some time ago a carrier delivered what was presumably a box of
Swiss milk at the Homes. The porter in charge received it, and was about to place it amongst
other packages, when the faintest possible cry escaped through the cracks in the lid. The pliers
were hastily brought, the nails flew out, the lid came off, and there lay little Frank in his
diminutive baby's robe, peacefully sleeping, with the end of the tube communicating with his
bottle of milk still between his lips!

"That is one means of getting rid of children," said Dr. Barnardo, after he had told me the
story of Frank, "but there are others which might almost amount to a respectable method. I
have received offers of large sums of money from persons who have been desirous of my receiving
their children into these Homes without asking any questions. Not so very long ago a lady came
to Stepney in her carriage. A child was in it. I granted her an interview, and she laid down
five £100 notes, saying they were mine if I would take the child and ask no questions. I did
not take the child. Again. A well-known peer of the realm once sent his footman here with £100,
asking me to take the footman's son. No. The footman could support his child. Gold and silver
will never open my doors unless there is real destitution. It is for the homeless, the actually
destitute, that we open our doors day and night, without money and without price. It is a dark
night outside, but if you will look up on this building, the words, 'No destitute boy or girl
ever refused admission, are large enough to be read on the darkest night and with the weakest
eyesight; and that has been true all these seven-and-twenty years.

"On this same pretext of 'asking no questions,' I have been offered £10,000 down, and £900
a year guaranteed during the lifetime of the wealthy man who made the offer, if I would set
up a Foundling Institution. A basket was to be placed outside, and no attempt was ever to be
made either to see the woman or to discover from whence she came or where she went. This, again,
I refused. We must know all we can about the little ones who come here, and every possible
means is taken to trace them. A photo is taken of every child when it arrives--even in tatters;
it is re-photographed again when it is altogether a different small creature."

Concerning these photographs, a great deal might be said, for the photographic studio at Stepney
is an institution in itself. Over 30,000 negatives have been taken, and the photograph of any
child can be turned up at a moment's notice. Out of this arrangement romantic incidents sometimes
grow.

Here is one of many. A child of three years old, discovered in a village in Lancashire deserted
by its parents, was taken to the nearest workhouse. There were no other children in the workhouse
at the time, and a lady visitor, struck with the forlornness of the little girl waif, beginning
life under the shadow of the workhouse, benevolently wrote to Dr. Barnardo, and after some
negotiations the child was admitted to the Homes and its photograph taken. Then it went down
to the Girls' Village Home at Ilford, where it grew up in one of the cottage families until
eleven years old.

One day a lady called on Dr. Barnardo and told him a sad tale concerning her own child, a little
girl, who had been stolen by a servant who owed her a spite, and who was lost sight of years
ago. The lady had done all she could at the time to trace her child in vain, and had given
up the pursuit; but lately an unconquerable desire to resume her inquiries filled her. Among
other places, she applied to the police in London, and the authorities suggested that she should
call at Stepney.

Dr. Barnardo could, of course, give her no clue whatever. Eight years had passed since the
child had been lost; but one thing he could do--he could turn to his huge photographic album,
and show her the faces of all the children who had been received within certain dates. This
was done, and in the course of turning over the pages the lady's eye fell on the face of the
little girl waif received from a Lancashire workhouse, and with much agitation declared that
she was her child. The girl was still at Ilford. In an hour's time she was fetched up, and
found to be a well-grown, nice-mannered child of eleven years of age--to be folded immediately
in her mother's arms. "There could be no doubt," the Doctor added, "of the parentage; they
were so much alike." Of course, inquiries had to be made as to the position of the lady, and
assurances given that she was really able to maintain the child, and that it would be well
cared for. These being satisfactory, Dorothy changed hands, and is now being brought up under
her mother's eye.

The boys and girls admitted to the fifty Homes under Dr. Barnardo's care are of all nationalities--black
and white, even Hindus and Chinese. A little while ago there were fourteen languages spoken
in the Homes.

"And what about naming the 'unknown'?" I asked. "What about folk who want to adopt a child
and are willing to take one of yours?"

"In the naming of unknown children," the Doctor replied, "we have no certain method, but allow
ourselves to be guided by the facts of the case. A very small boy, two years ago, was discovered
destitute upon a door-step in Oxford. He was taken to the workhouse, and, after more or less
investigation to discover the people who abandoned him, he came into my hands. He had no name,
but he was forthwith christened, and given the name of a very celebrated building standing
close to where he was found.

"Marie Perdu suggests at once the history which attaches to her. Rachel Trouvé is equally suggestive.
That we have not more names of this sort is due to the fact that we insist upon the most minute,
elaborate and careful investigation of every case; and it is, I think, to the credit of our
institutions that not more than four or five small infants have been admitted from the first
without our having been able to trace each child home to its parentage, and to fill our records
with incidents of its early history.

"Regarding the question of adoption. I am very slow to give a child out for adoption in England.
In Canada--by-the-bye, during the year 1892, 720 boys and girls have emigrated to the Colonies,
making a grand total of 5,834 young folks who have gone out to Canada and other British Colonies
since this particular branch was started. As I was saying, in Canada, if a man adopts a child
it really becomes as his own. If a girl, he must provide her with a marriage dowry."

"But the little ones--the very tiny ones, Dr. Barnardo, where do they go?" I interrupted.

"To 'Babies' Castle' at Hawkhurst, in Kent. A few go to Ilford, where the Girls' Village Home
is. It is conducted on the cottage principle--which means home. I send some there--one to each
cottage. Others are 'boarded out' all over the kingdom, but a good many, especially the feebler
ones who need special medical and nursing care, go to 'Babies' Castle,' where you were--one
day last summer!"

One day last summer! It was remembered only too well, and more so when we hurried out into
the cold air outside and hastened our footsteps--eastwards. And as we walked along I listened
to the story of Dr. Barnardo's first Arab boy. His love for waifs and strays as a child increased
with years; it had been impressed upon his boyish memory, and when he became a young man and
walked the wards of the London Hospital, it increased.

It was the winter of 1866. Together with one or two fellow students he conducted a ragged school
in an old stable. The young student told the children stories--simple and understandable, and
read to them such works as the "Pilgrim's Progress." The nights were cold, and the young students
subscribed together--in a practical move--for a huge fire. One night young Barnardo was just
about to go when, approaching the warming embers to brace himself up for the snow outside,
he saw a boy lying there. He was in rags; his face pinched with hunger and suffering.

"Now then, my boy--it's time to go," said the medico.

"Please, sir, do let me stop."

"I can't, my lad--it's time to go home. Where do you live?"

"Don't live nowhere, sir!"

"Nowhere! Where's your father and mother?"

"Ain't got none, sir!"

"For the first time in my life," said Dr. Barnardo as he was telling this incident, "I was
brought face to face with the misery of outcast childhood. I questioned the lad. He had been
sleeping in the streets for two or three years--he knew every corner of refuge in London. Well,
I took him to my lodgings. I had a bit of a struggle with the landlady to allow him to come
in, but at last I succeeded, and we had some coffee together.

"His reply to one question I asked him impressed me more than anything else.

"'Are there many more like you?' I asked.

"'Heaps, sir.'

"He spoke the truth. He took me to one spot near Houndsditch. There I obtained my first view
of real Arab life. Eleven lads--some only nine and ten years of age--lay on the roof of a building.
It was a strange sight--the moon seemingly singling out every sleeper for me. Another night
we went together over to the Queen's Shades, near Billingsgate. On the top of a number of barrels,
covered with tarpaulin, seventy-three fellows were sleeping. I had the whole lot out for a
halfpenny apiece.

"'By God's help,' I cried inwardly, 'I'll help these fellows.'

"Owing to a meeting at Islington my experiences got into the daily Press. The late Lord Shaftesbury
sent for me, and one night at his house at dinner I was chaffed for 'romancing.' When Lord
Shaftesbury went with me to Billingsgate that same night and found thirty-seven boys there,
he knew the terrible truth. So we started with fifteen or twenty boys, in lodgings, friends
paying for them. Then I opened a dilapidated house, once occupied by a stock dealer, but with
the help of brother medicos it was cleaned, scrubbed, and whitewashed. We begged, borrowed,
and very nearly stole the needful bedsteads. The place was ready, and it was soon filled with
twenty-five boys. And the work grew--and grew--and grew--you know what it is to-day!"

We had now reached Whitechapel. The night had increased in coldness, the snow completely covered
the roads and pavements, save where the ruts, made by the slowly moving traffic and pedestrians'
tread, were visible. To escape from the keen and cutting air would indeed have been a blessing--a
blessing that was about to be realized in strange places. Turning sharply up a side street,
we walked a short distance and stopped at a certain house. A gentle tap, tap at the door. It
was opened by a woman, and we entered. It was a vivid picture--a picture of low life altogether
indescribable.

The great coke fire, which never goes out save when the chimney is swept, and in front of which
were cooking pork chops, steaks, mutton-chops, rashers of bacon, and that odoriferous marine
delicacy popularly known as a bloater, threw a strange glare upon "all sorts and conditions
of men." Old men, with histories written on every wrinkle of their faces; old women, with straggling
and unkempt white hair falling over their shoulders; young men, some with eyes that hastily
dropped at your gaze; young women, some with never-mind-let's-enjoy-life-while-we're-here expressions
on their faces; some with stories of misery and degradation plainly lined upon their features--boys
and girls; and little ones! Tiny little ones!

Still, look at the walls; at the ceiling. It is the time of Christmas. Garlands of paper chains
are stretched across; holly and evergreens are in abundance, and even the bunch of mistletoe
is not missing. But, the little ones rivet my attention. Some are a few weeks old, others two,
three, four, and five years old. Women are nursing them. Where are their mothers? I am told
that they are out--and this and that girl is receiving twopence or threepence for minding baby
until mother comes home once more. The whole thing is too terribly real; and now, now I begin
to understand a little about Dr. Barnardo's work and the urgent necessity for it. "Save the
children," he cries, "at any cost from becoming such as the men and women are whom we see here!"

That night I visited some dozen, perhaps twenty, of these lodging-houses. The same men and
women were everywhere, the same fire, the same eatables cooking--even the chains of coloured
papers, the holly and the bunch of mistletoe--and the wretched children as well.

Hurrying away from these scenes of the nowadays downfall of man and woman, I returned home.
I lit my pipe and my memory went away to the months of song and sunshine--one day last summer!

I had got my parcel of toys--balls and steam-engines, dolls, and funny little wooden men that
jump about when you pull the string, and what-not. But, I had forgotten the sweets. Samuel
Huggins, however, who is licensed to sell tobacco and snuff at Hawkhurst, was the friend in
need. He filled my pockets--for a consideration. And, the fine red-brick edifice, with clinging
ivy about its walls, and known as "Babies' Castle," came in view.

Here they are--just on their way to dinner. Look at this little fellow! He is leading on either
side a little girl and boy. The little girl is a blind idiot, the other youngster is also blind;
yet he knows every child in the place by touch. He knew what a railway engine was. And the
poor little girl got the biggest rubber ball in the pack, and for five hours she sat in a corner
bouncing it against her forehead with her two hands.

Here they come--the fifty yards' race down the corridor; a dozen of the very smallest crawling
along, chuckling and screaming with excitement. Frank leads the way. Artful Frank! He is off
bottles now, but he still has an inclination that way, and, unless his miniature friends and
acquaintances keep a sharp look-out, he annexes theirs in the twinkling of an eye. But, then,
Frank is a veritable young prize-fighter. And as the race continues, a fine Scotch collie--Laddie--jumps
and flies over the heads of the small competitors for the first in to lunch. You don't believe
it? Look at the picture of Tommy lying down with his head resting peacefully on Laddie. Laddie!
To him the children are as lambs. When they are gambolling in the green fields he wanders about
amongst them, and "barks" them home when the time of play is done and the hour of prayer has
come, when the little ones kneel up in their cots and put up their small petitions.

Here they are in their own particular dining-room. Never were such huge bowls of meat soup
set before children. Still, they'll eat every bit, and a sweet or two on the top of that. I
asked myself a hundred times, Can these ever have been such children as I have seen in the
slums? This is little Daisy. Her name is not the only pretty thing about her. She has a sweet
face. Daisy doesn't know it; but her mother went mad, and Daisy was born in a lunatic asylum.
Notice this young man who seems to take in bigger spoonfuls than all the others. He's got a
mouth like a money box--open to take all he can get. But when he first came to "Babies' Castle"
he was so weak--starved in truth--that for days he was carried about on a pillow. Another little
fellow's father committed suicide. Fail not to observe and admire the appetite of Albert Edward.
He came with no name, and he was christened so. His companions call him "The Prince!" Yet another.
This little girl's mother is to-day a celebrated beauty--and her next-door diner was farmed
out and insured. When fourteen months old the child only weighed fourteen pounds. Every child
is a picture--the wan cheeks are no more, a rosy hue and healthy flush are on every face.

After dinner comes the mid-day sleep of two hours.

Now, I must needs creep through the bedrooms, every one of which is a pattern of neatness.
The boots and shoes are placed under the bed--not a sound is heard. Amongst the sleepers the
"Midget" is to be found. It was the "Midget" who came in the basket from Newcastle, "with care."
I had crept through all the dormitories save one, when a sight I had not seen in any of the
others met me. It was in a double bed--the only one at "Babies' Castle." A little boy lay sleeping
by the side of a four-year-old girl. Possibly it was my long-standing leaning over the rails
of the cot that woke the elder child. She slowly opened her eyes and looked up at me.

"Who are you, my little one?" I whispered.

And the whisper came back--"I'm Sister's Fidget!"

"Sister's who?"

"Sister's Fidget, please, sir."

I learnt afterwards that she was a most useful young woman. All the clothes worn at "Babies'
Castle" are given by friends. No clothing is bought, and this young woman has them all tried
on her, and after the fitting of some thirty or forty frocks, etc., she--fidgets! Hence her name.

"But why does that little boy sleep by you?" I questioned again.

"That's Erney. He walks in his seep. One night I couldn't seep. As I was tieing to look out
of the window--Erney came walking down here. He was fast aseep. I got up ever so quick."

"And what did you do?'

"Put him in his bed again!"

I went upstairs with Sister Alice to the nursery. Here are the very smallest of them all. Some
of the occupants of the white enamel cribs--over which the name of the babe appears--are only
a very few weeks old. Here is Frank in a blue frock. It was Frank who came in the condensed
milk box. He is still at his bottle as he was when first he came. Sleeping opposite each other
are the fat lady and gentleman of the establishment. Annie is only seven months and three days
old. She weighs 16lb. 4oz. She was bathed later on--and took to the water beautifully. Arthur
is eleven months. He only weighs 22lb. 4oz.! Eighteen gallons of milk are consumed every day
at "Babies' Castle," from sixty to seventy bottles filled per diem, and all the bottle babies
are weighed every week and their record carefully kept. A glance through this book reveals
the indisputable fact that Arthur puts on flesh at a really alarming rate. But there are many
others who are "growing" equally as well. The group of youngsters who were carried from the
nursery to the garden, where they could sit in their chairs in the sunshine and enjoy a quiet
pull at their respective bottles, would want a lot of beating for healthy faces, lusty voices,
and seemingly never-to-be-satisfied appetites.

A piteous moan is heard. It comes from a corner partitioned off. The coverlet is gently cast
on one side for a moment, and I ask that it may quickly be placed back again. It is the last
one sent to "Babies' Castle." I am wondering still if this poor little mite can live. It is
five months old. It weighs 4lb. 1oz. Such was the little one when I was at "Babies' Castle."

I looked in at the surgery, presided over by a fully-qualified lady doctor; thence to the infirmary,
where were just three or four occupants suffering from childish complaints, the most serious
of which was that of the youngster christened "Jim Crow." Jimmy was "off his feed." Still,
he could shout--aye, as loud as did his famous namesake. He sat up in his little pink flannel
nightgown, and screamed with delight. And poor Jimmy soon learnt how to do it. He only had
to pull the string, and the aforementioned funny little wooden man kicked his legs about as
no mortal ever did, could, or will.

I saw the inhabitants at "Babies' Castle" in the schoolroom. Here they are happily perched
on forms and desks, listening to some simple story, which appeals to their childish fancies.
How they sing! They "bring down the house" with their thumping on the wooden desks as an accompaniment
to the "big bass drum," whilst a certain youngster's rendering of a juvenile ditty, known as
"The Muffin Man," is calculated to make one remember his vocal efforts whenever the hot and
juicy muffin is put on the breakfast table. Little Mary still trips it neatly. She can't quite
forget the days and nights when she used to accompany her mother round the public-houses and
dance for coppers. Jane is also a terpsichorean artiste, and tingles the tambourine to the
stepping of her feet; whilst Annie is another disciple of the art, and sings a song with the
strange refrain of "Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-ay!"

Now, hurrah for play!--and off we go helter-skelter to the fields, Laddie barking and jumping
at the youngsters with unsuppressed delight.

If you can escape from joining in their games--but they are irresistible--do, and walk quietly
round and take stock of these rescued little ones. Notice this small contingent just starting
from the porch. Babies' brougham only consists of a small covered cart, with a highly respectable
donkey--warranted not to proceed too fast--attached to it. Look at this group at the gate.
They can't quite understand what "the genelman" with the cloth over his head and a big brown
box on three pieces of stick is going to do, but it is all right. They are taught to smile
here, and the photographer did not forget to put it down. And I open the gate and let them
down the steps, the little girl with the golden locks all over her head sharply advising her
smaller companions to "Come along--come along!" Then young Christopher mounts the rocking-horse
of the establishment, the swinging-boats are quickly crammed up with passengers, and twenty
or thirty more little minds are again set wondering as to why "the genelman" will wrap his
head up in a piece of black cloth and cover his eyes whenever he wants to see them! And the
Castle perambulator! How pretty the occupants--how ready the hands to give Susan and Willie
a trip round. They shout, they jump, they do all and more than most children, so wild and free
is their delight.

The sun is shining upon these one-time waifs and strays, these children of the East--the flowers
seem to grow for them, and the grass keeps green as though to atone for the dark days which
ushered in their birth. Let them sing to-day--they were made to sing--let them be children
indeed. Let them shout and tire their tiny limbs in play--they will sleep all the better for
it, and eat a bigger breakfast in the morning. The nurses are beginning to gather in their
charges. Laddie is leaping and barking round the hedge-rows in search of any wanderers.

And the inhabitants of "Babies' Castle" congregate on the steps of their home. We are saying
"Good-bye." "Jim Crow" is held up to the window inside, and little Ernest, the blind boy, waves
his hands with the others and shouts in concert. I drive away. But one can hear their voices
just as sweet to-night as on one day last summer!

HARRY HOW.

Beauties:--Children.

Shafts from an Eastern Quiver.

VIII.--THE MASKED RULER OF THE BLACK WRECKERS

BY CHARLES J. MANSFORD, B.A.

I.

"Hassan," called Denviers to our guide in an imperative tone, as the latter was looking longingly
at the wide expanse of sea over which our boat was helplessly drifting, "lie down yonder immediately!"
The Arab rose slowly and reluctantly, and then extended himself at the bottom of the boat out
of sight of the tempting waters.

"How much longer are these torments to last, Frank?" I asked wearily, as I looked into the
gaunt, haggard face of my companion as we sat in the prow of our frail craft and gazed anxiously
but almost hopelessly onward to see if land might even yet loom up in the distance.

"Can't say, Harold," he responded; "but I think we can hold out for two more days, and surely
by that time we shall either reach some island or else be rescued by a passing vessel." Two
more days--forty-eight more hours of this burning heat and thirst! I glanced most uneasily
at our guide as he lay impassively in the boat, then I continued:--

"Do you think that Hassan will be able to resist the temptation of these maddening waters round
us for so long as that?" There was a serious look which crossed Denviers' face as he quietly
replied:--

"I hope so, Harold; we are doing our best for him. The Arab gets a double share now of our
pitifully slender stock, although, happily, he doesn't know it; if he did he would certainly
refuse to take his dole of rice and scanty draught of water, and then I'm afraid that it would
be all over with him. He bears up bravely enough, but I don't at all like the bright look in
his eyes which has been there for the last few hours. We must have travelled now more than
half way across the Bay of Bengal with such a driving wind as this behind us. It's certainly
lucky for us that our valuables were not on board the other boat, for we shall never see that
again, nor its cowardly occupants. The horses, our tent, and some of our weapons are, of course,
gone altogether, but we shall be able to shift for ourselves well enough if once we are so
lucky as to reach land again."

"I can't see of what use any weapons are just at present," I responded, "nor, for the matter
of that, the gems which we have hidden about our persons. For the whole five days during which
we have been driven on by this fierce, howling wind I have not seen a living thing except ourselves--not
even a bird of the smallest size."

"Because they know more about these storms than we do, and make for the land accordingly,"
said Denviers; then glancing again at the Arab, he continued:--

"We must watch Hassan very closely, and if he shows signs of being at all likely to lose his
self-control, we shall have to tie him down. We owe a great deal to him in this present difficulty,
because it was entirely through his advice that we brought any provisions with us at all."

"That is true enough," I replied; "but how were we to know that a journey which we expected
would occupy less than six hours was to end in our being cast adrift at the mercy of wind and
wave in such a mere cockle-shell as this boat is, and so driven sheer across this waste of waters?"

"Well, Harold," said Denviers, quietly, "we must stick to our original plan of resting turn
and turn about if we wish to keep ourselves alive as long as possible. I will continue my watch
from the prow, and meantime you had better endeavour to obtain some rest; at all events we
won't give in just yet." He turned his head away from me as he spoke and narrowly surveyed
the scene around us, magnificent as it was, notwithstanding its solitude and the perils which
darkly threatened us.

Leaving the hut of the Cingalese after our adventure with the Dhahs in the forest of Ceylon,
we had made our way to Trincomalee, where we had embarked upon a small sailing boat, similar
in size and shape to those which may be constantly seen on the other side of the island, and
which are used by the pearl-divers. We had heard of some wonderful sea-worn caves, which were
to be seen on the rocky coast at some distance from Trincomalee, and had thus set out, intending
afterwards to land on a more southerly portion of the island--for we had determined to traverse
the coast, and, returning to Colombo again, to take ship for Burmah. Our possessions were placed
in a second boat, which had a planked covering of a rounded form, beneath which they were secured
from the dashing spray affecting them. We had scarcely got out for about an hour's distance
when the natives stolidly refused to proceed farther, declaring that a violent storm was about
to burst upon us. We, however, insisted on continuing our journey, when those in the second
boat suddenly turned its prow round and made hastily for the land, at the same time that our
own boatman dived from the side and dexterously clambered up on the retreating boat, leaving
us to shift for ourselves as best we could. Their fears were only too well grounded, for before
we were able to make an attempt to follow them as they coolly made off with our property in
the boat, the wind struck our own little boat heavily, and out to sea we went, driven through
the rapidly rising waves in spite of our efforts to render the boat manageable.

For five days we had now been whirled violently along; a little water and a few handfuls of
rice being all that we had to share between the three of us who occupied the boat, and upon
whom the sun each day beat fiercely down in a white heat, increasing our sufferings ten-fold--the
effects of which could be seen plainly enough as we looked into each other's faces.

Behind us the sun had just set in a sky that the waves seemed to meet in the distance, and
to be blended with them into one vast purple and crimson heaving mass. Round us and before
us, the waters curled up into giant waves, which flung high into the air ridges of white foam
and then fell sheer down into a yawning gulf, only to rise again nearer and nearer to the quivering
sides of our frail craft, which still pressed on--on to where we expected to meet with death
rather than rescue, as we saw the ripped sail dip itself into the seething waters like the
wing of a wounded sea-bird.

Following my companion's suggestion I lay down and closed my eyes, and was so much exhausted,
indeed, that before long I fell into a restless sleep, from which I at last awoke to hear Denviers
speaking to me as he shook my arm gently to arouse me.

"Harold," he said, in a subdued tone, "I want you to see whether I am deceiving myself or not.
Come to the prow of the boat and tell me what you can see from there."

I rose slowly, and as I did so gave a glance at the Arab, who was lying quite still in the
bottom of the boat, where Denviers had commanded him to rest some hours before. Then, following
the direction in which my companion pointed, I looked far out across the waves. The storm had
abated considerably in the hours during which I had slept, for the waters which stretched round
us were becoming as still as the starlit sky above. Looking carefully ahead of us, I thought
that in the distance I could discern the faint flicker of a flame, and accordingly pointed
it out to Denviers.

"Then I am not mistaken," he exclaimed. "I have been watching it for some time, and as the
waves have become less violent, it seemed to shine out; but I was afraid that after all I might
be deluding myself by raising such a hope of assistance, for, as you know, our guide Hassan
has been seeing land all day, which, unfortunately for us, only existed in his imagination."

"He is asleep," I responded; "we will watch this light together, and when we get near to it,
then he can be awakened if necessary." We slowly drew closer and closer to the flame, and then
we thought that we could discern before us the mast of a vessel, from which the light seemed
to be hung out into the air. At last we were sufficiently near to clearly distinguish the mast,
which was evidently rising from out of the sea, for the hull of the vessel was not apparent
to us, even when we were cast close to it.

"A wreck!" cried Denviers, leaning over the prow of our boat. "We were not the only ones who
suffered from the effects of the driving storm." Then pointing a little to the east of the
mast, he continued:--

"There is land at last, for the tops of several trees are plainly to be seen." I looked eastward
as he spoke, and then back again to the mast of the vessel.

"We have been seen by those clinging yonder," I exclaimed. "There is a man evidently signalling
to us to save him." Denviers scanned the mast before us, and replied:--

"There is only one man clinging there, Harold. What a strange being he is--look!" Clinging
to the rigging with one hand, a man, who was perfectly black and almost clothless, could be
seen holding aloft towards us a blazing torch, the glare of which fell full upon his face.

"We must save him," said Denviers, "but I'm afraid there will be some difficulty in doing so.
Wake Hassan as quickly as you can." I roused the Arab, and when he scanned the face and form
of the apparently wrecked man he said, in a puzzled tone:--

"Sahibs, the man looks like a Papuan, but we are far too distant from their land for that to
be so."

"The mast and ropes seem to me to be very much weather-beaten," I interposed, as the light
showed them clearly. "Why, the wreck is an old one!"

"Jump!" cried Denviers, at that moment, to the man clinging to the rigging, just as the waters,
with a swirl, sent us past the ship. The watcher flung his blazing torch into the waves, and
the hiss of the brand was followed by a splash in the sea. The holder of it had dived from
the rigging and directly after reappeared and clambered into our boat, saved from death, as
we thought--little knowing the fell purpose for which he had been stationed to hold out the
flaring torch as a welcoming beacon to be seen afar by any vessel in distress. I glanced at
the dangerous ring of coral reef round the island on which the ship had once struck, and then
looked at the repulsive islander, who sat gazing at us with a savage leer. Although somewhat
resembling a Papuan, as Hassan had said, we were soon destined to know what he really was,
for the Arab, who had been glancing narrowly and suspiciously at the man, whispered to us cautiously:--

"Sahibs, trust not this islander. We must have reached the land where the Tamils dwell. They
have a sinister reputation, which even your slave has heard. This savage is one of those who
lure ships on to the coral reefs, and of whom dark stories are told. He is a black wrecker!"

II.

We managed by means of Hassan to communicate to the man who was with us in the boat that we
were desperately in need of food, to which he made some unintelligible response. Hassan pressed
the question upon him again, and then he volunteered to take our boat through the dangerous
reefs which were distinguishable in the clear waters, and to conduct us to the shore of the
island, which we saw was beautifully wooded. He managed the boat with considerable skill, and
when at last we found ourselves upon land once again, we began to think that, perhaps, after
all, the natives might be friendly disposed towards us.

Our new-found guide entered a slight crevice in the limestone rock, and came forth armed with
a stout spear tipped, as we afterwards found, with a shark's tooth.

"I suppose we must trust to fortune," said Denviers, as we carefully followed the black in
single file over a surface which seemed to be covered with a mass of holes.

"We must get food somehow," I responded. "It will be just as safe to follow this Tamil as to
remain on the shore waiting for daybreak. No doubt, if we did so the news of our arrival would
be taken to the tribe and an attack made upon us. Thank goodness, our pistols are in our belts
after all, although our other weapons went with the rest of the things which we lost."

The ground which we were traversing now began to assume more the appearance of a zigzag pathway,
leading steeply downward, however, for we could see it as it twisted far below us, and apparently
led into a plain. The Tamil who was leading the way seemed to purposely avoid any conversation
with us, and Denviers catching up to him grasped him by the shoulder. The savage stopped suddenly
and shortened his hold upon the spear, while his face glowed with all the fury of his fierce
nature.

"Where does this path lead to?" Denviers asked, making a motion towards it to explain the information
which he desired to obtain. Hassan hurried up and explained the words which were returned in
a guttural tone:--

"To where the food for which ye asked may be obtained."

The path now began to widen out, and we found ourselves, on passing over the plain which we
had seen from above, entering a vast grotto from the roof of which long crystal prisms hung,
while here and there natural pillars of limestone seemed to give their support to the roof
above. Our strange guide now fastened a torch of some resinous material to the butt end of
his spear and held it high above us as we slowly followed him, keeping close to each other
so as to avoid being taken by surprise.

The floor of this grotto was strewn with the bones of some animal, and soon we discovered that
we were entering the haunt of the Tamil tribe. From the far end of the grotto we heard the
sound of voices, and as we approached saw the gleam of a wood fire lighting up the scene before
us. Round this were gathered a number of the tribe to which the man belonged, their spears
resting in their hands as though they were ever watchful and ready to make an attack. Uttering
a peculiar bird-like cry, the savage thus apprised the others of our approach, whereupon they
hastily rose from the fire and spread out so that on our nearing them we were immediately surrounded.

"Hassan," said Denviers, "tell these grinning niggers that we mean to go no farther until they
have provided us with food."

The Arab managed to make himself understood, for the savage who had led us into the snare pointed
to one of the caverns which ran off from the main grotto, and said:--

"Sports of the ocean current, which brought ye into the way whence ye may see the Great Tamil,
enter there and food shall be given to ye."

We entered the place pointed out with considerable misgivings, for we had not forgotten the
plot of the Hindu fakir. We could see very little of its interior, which was only partly lighted
by the torch which the Tamil still carried affixed to his spear. He left us there for a few
minutes, during which we rested on the limestone floor, and, being unable to distinguish any
part of the cavern around us, we watched the entry closely, fearing attack. The shadows of
many spears were flung before us by the torch, and, concluding that we were being carefully
guarded, we decided to await quietly the Tamil's return. The much-needed food was at length
brought to us, and consisted of charred fragments of fish, in addition to some fruit, which
served us instead of water, for none of the last was given to us. The savage contemptuously
threw what he had brought at our feet, and then departed. Being anxious to escape, we ventured
to approach again the entrance of the cavern, but found ourselves immediately confronted by
a dozen blacks, who held their spears in a threatening manner as they glared fiercely at us,
and uttered a warning exclamation.

"Back to the cave!" they cried, and thinking that it would be unwise for us to endeavour to
fight our way through them till day dawned, we returned reluctantly, and threw ourselves down
where we had rested before. After some time, the Tamil who evidently looked upon us as his
own prisoners entered the cavern, and with a shrill laugh motioned to us to follow him. We
rose, and re-entering the grotto, were led by the savage through it, until at last we stood
confronting a being at whom we gazed in amazement for some few minutes.

Impassive and motionless, the one whom we faced rested upon a curiously carved throne of state.
One hand of the monarch held a spear, the butt end of which rested upon the ground, while the
other hung rigidly to his side. But the glare which came from the torches which several of
the Tamils had affixed to their spears revealed to us no view of the face of the one sitting
there, for, over it, to prevent this, was a hideous mask, somewhat similar to that which exorcists
wear in many Eastern countries. The nose was perfectly flat, from the sides of the head large
ears protruded, huge tusks took the place of teeth, while the leering eyes were made of some
reddish, glassy substance, the entire mask presenting a most repulsive appearance, being evidently
intended to strike terror into those who beheld it. The strangest part of the scene was that
one of the Tamils stood close by the side of the masked monarch, and seemed to act as interpreter,
for the ruler never spoke, although the questions put by his subject soon convinced us that
we were likely to have to fight our way out of the power of the savage horde.

"The Great Tamil would know why ye dared to land upon his sacred shores?" the fierce interpreter
asked us. Denviers turned to Hassan, and said:--

"Tell the Great Tamil who hides his ugly face behind this mask that his treacherous subject
brought us, and that we want to leave his shores as soon as we can." Hassan responded to the
question, then the savage asked:--

"Will ye present your belts and weapons to the Great Tamil as a peace offering?" We looked
at the savage in surprise for a moment, wondering if he shrewdly guessed that we had anything
valuable concealed there. We soon conjectured rightly that this was only a ruse on his part
to disarm us, and Hassan was instructed to say that we never gave away our weapons or belts
to friends or foes.

"Then the Great Tamil orders that ye be imprisoned in the cavern from which ye have come into
his presence until ye fulfil his command," said the one who was apparently employed as interpreter
to the motionless ruler. We signified our readiness to return to the cave, for we thought that
if attacked there we should have enemies only in front of us, whereas at that moment we were
entirely surrounded. The fierce guards as they conducted us back endeavoured to incite us to
an attack, for they several times viciously struck us with the butts of their spears, but,
following Denviers' example, I managed to restrain my anger, waiting for a good opportunity
to amply repay them for the insult.

"What a strange ruler, Harold," said Denviers, as we found ourselves once more imprisoned within
the cave.

"He made no attempt to speak," I responded; "at all events, I did not hear any words come from
his lips. It looked like a piece of masquerading more than the interrogation of three prisoners.
I wonder if there is any way of escaping out of this place other than by the entrance through
which we came."

"We may as well try to find one," said Denviers, and accordingly we groped about the dim cave,
running our hands over its roughened sides, but could discover no means of egress.

"We must take our chance, that is all," said my companion, when our efforts had proved unsuccessful.
"I expect that they will make a strong attempt to disarm us, if nothing worse than that befalls
us. These savages have a mania for getting possession of civilized weapons. One of our pistols
would be to them a great treasure."

"Did you notice the bones which strewed the cavern when we entered?" I interrupted, for a strange
thought occurred to me.

"Hush! Harold," Denviers whispered, as we reclined on the hard granite flooring of the cave.
"I don't think Hassan observed them, and there is no need to let him know what we infer from
them until we cannot prevent it. There is no reason why we should hide from each other the
fact that these savages are evidently cannibals, which is in my opinion the reason why they
lure vessels upon the reefs here. I noticed that several of them wore bracelets round their
arms and ankles, taken no doubt from their victims. I should think that in a storm like the
one which drove us hither, many vessels have drifted at times this way. We shall have to fight
for our lives, that is pretty certain; I hope it will be in daylight, for as it is we should
be impaled on their spears without having the satisfaction of first shooting a few of them."

"Sahibs," said Hassan, who had been resting at a little distance from us, "it will be best
for us to seek repose in order to be fit for fighting, if necessary, when these savages demand
our weapons."

"Well, Hassan," said Denviers, "you are better off than we are. True we have our pistols, but
your sword has never left your side, and I dare say you will find plenty of use for it before
long."

"If the Prophet so wills," said the Arab, "it will be at the service of the Englishmen. I rested
for many hours on the boat before we reached this land, and will now keep watch lest any treachery
be attempted by these Tamils." We knew that under the circumstances Hassan's keen sense of
hearing would be more valuable than our own, and after a slight protest agreed to leave him
to his self-imposed task of watching while we slept. He moved close to the entrance of the
cave, and we followed his example before seeking repose. Hassan made some further remark, to
which I do not clearly remember responding, the next event recalled being that he awoke us
from a sound sleep, saying:--

"Sahibs, the day has dawned, and the Tamils are evidently going to attack us." We rose to our
feet and, assuring ourselves that our pistols were safe in our belts, we stood at the entrance
of the cave and peered out. The Tamils were gathering round the spot, listening eagerly to
the man who had first brought us into the grotto, and who was pointing at the cave in which
we were and gesticulating wildly to his companions.

III.

The savage bounded towards us as we appeared in the entry, and, grinning fiercely, showed his
white, protruding teeth.

"The Great Tamil commands his prisoners to appear before him again," he cried. "He would fain
learn something of the land whence they came." We looked into each other's faces irresolute
for a minute. If we advanced from the cave we might be at once surrounded and slain, yet we
were unable to tell how many of the Tamils held the way between us and the path down which
we had come when entering the grotto.

"Tell him that we are ready to follow him," said Denviers to Hassan; then turning to me he
whispered: "Harold, watch your chance when we are before this motionless nigger whom they call
the Great Tamil. If I can devise a scheme I will endeavour to find a way to surprise them,
and then we must make a dash for liberty." The Tamils, however, made no attempt to touch us
as we passed out before them and followed the messenger sent to summon us to appear again before
their monarch. The grotto was still gloomy, for the light of day did not penetrate well into
it. We could, however, see clearly enough, and the being before whom we were brought a second
time seemed more repulsive than ever. We noticed that the limbs of his subjects were tattooed
with various designs as they stood round us and gazed in awe upon the silent form of their monarch.

"The Great Tamil would know whether ye have yet decided to give up your belts and weapons,
that they may adorn his abode with the rest which he has accumulated," said the savage who
stood by the monarch's spear, as he pointed to a part of the grotto where we saw a huge heap
of what appeared to us to be the spoils of several wrecks. Our guide interpreted my companion's
reply.

"We will not be disarmed," answered Denviers. "These are our weapons of defence; ye have your
own spears, and they should be sufficient for your needs."

"Ye will not?" demanded the savage, fiercely.

"No!" responded Denviers, and he moved his right hand to the belt in which his pistols were.

"Seize them!" shrieked the impassioned savage; "they defy us. Drag them to the mortar and crush
them into dust!" The words had scarcely passed his lips when Denviers rushed forward and snatched
the mask from the Tamil sitting there! The savages around, when they saw this, seemed for a
moment unable to move; then they threw themselves wildly to the ground and grovelled before
the face which was thus revealed. The motionless arm of the form made no attempt to move from
the side where it hung to protect the mask from Denviers' touch, for the rigid features upon
which we looked at that moment were those of the dead!

"Quick, Harold!" exclaimed Denviers, as he saw the momentary panic which his action had caused
among the superstitious Tamils. "On to the entry!" We bounded over the guards as they lay prostrate,
and a moment afterwards were rushing headlong towards the entrance of the grotto. Our escape
was by no means fully secured, however, for as we emerged we found several Tamils prepared
to bar our further advance.

Denviers dashed his fist full in the face of one of the yelling savages, and in a moment got
possession of the spear which he had poised, while the whirl of Hassan's blade cleared our
path. I heard the whirr of a spear as it narrowly missed my head and pierced the ground before
me. Wrenching it out of the hard ground I followed Hassan and Denviers as they darted up the
zigzag path. On we went, the savages hotly pursuing us, then those in the van stopped until
the others from the cave joined them, when they all made a mad rush together after us. Owing
to the path zigzagging as it did, we were happily protected in a great measure from the shower
of spears which fell around us.

We had nearly reached the top of the path when, turning round, I saw that our pursuers were
only a few yards away, for the savages seemed to leap rather than to run over the ground, and
certainly would leave us no chance to reach our boat and push off from them. Denviers saw them
too, and cried to me:--

"Quick, Harold, lend Hassan and me a hand!" I saw that they had made for a huge piece of granite
which was poised on a hollow, cup-like base, and directly afterwards the three of us were behind
it straining with all our force to push it forward. The foremost savage had all but reached
us when, with one desperate and successful attempt, we sent the monster stone crashing down
upon the black, yelling horde!

We stopped and looked down at the havoc which had been wrought among them; then we pressed
on, for we knew that our advantage was likely to be only of short duration, and that those
who were uninjured would dash over their fallen comrades and follow us in order to avenge them.
Almost immediately after we reached the spot where our boat was moored we saw one of our pursuers
appear, eagerly searching for our whereabouts. We hastily set the sail to the breeze, which
was blowing from the shore, while the savage wildly urged the others, who had now reached him,
to dash into the water and spear us.

Holding their weapons between their teeth, fully twenty of the blacks plunged into the sea
and made a determined effort to reach us. They swam splendidly, keeping their fierce eyes fixed
upon us as they drew nearer and nearer.

"Shall we shoot them?" I asked Denviers, as we saw that they were within a short distance of us.

"We don't want to kill any more of these black man-eaters," he said; "but we must make an example
of one of them, I suppose, or they will certainly spear us."

I watched the savage who was nearest to us. He reached the boat, and, holding on by one of
his black paws, raised himself a little, then gripped his spear in the middle and drew it back.
Denviers pointed his pistol full at the savage and fired. He bounded completely out of the
water, then fell back lifeless among his companions! The death of one of their number so suddenly
seemed to disconcert the rest, and before they could make another attack we were standing well
out to sea. We saw them swim back to the shore and line it in a dark, threatening mass, brandishing
their useless spears, until at last the rising waters hid the island from our view.

"A sharp brush with the niggers, indeed!" said Denviers. "The worst of it is that unless we
are picked up before long by some vessel we must make for some part of the island again, for
we must have food at any cost."

We had not been at sea, however, more than two hours afterwards when Hassan suddenly cried:--

"Sahibs, a ship!"

Looking in the direction towards which he was turned we saw a vessel with all sails set. We
started up, and before long our signals were seen, for a boat was lowered and we were taken
on board.

"Well, Harold," said Denviers, as we lay stretched on the deck that night, talking over our
adventure, "strange to say we are bound for the country we wished to reach, although we certainly
started for it in a very unexpected way."

"Did the sahibs fully observe the stone which was hurled upon the savages?" asked Hassan, who
was near us.

Denviers turned to him as he replied:--

"We were in too much of a hurry to do that, Hassan, I'm afraid. Was there anything remarkable
about it?" The Arab looked away over the sea for a minute--then, as if talking to himself,
he answered: "Great is Allah and his servant Mahomet, and strange the way in which he saved
us. The huge stone which crushed the savages was the same with which they have destroyed their
victims in the hollowed-out mortar in which it stood! I have once before seen such a stone,
and the death to which they condemned us drew my attention to it as we pushed it down upon them."

"Then," said Denviers, "their strange monarch was not disappointed after all in his sentence
being carried out--only it affected his own subjects."

"That," said Hassan, "is not an infrequent occurrence in the East; but so long as the proper
number perishes, surely it matters little who complete it fully."

"A very pleasant view of the case, Hassan," said Denviers; "only we who live Westward will,
I hope, be in no particular hurry to adopt such a custom; but go and see if you can find out
where our berths are, for we want to turn in." The Arab obeyed, and returned in a few minutes,
saying that he, the unworthy latchet of our shoes, had discovered them.

From Behind the Speaker's Chair.

II.

(VIEWED BY HENRY W. LUCY.)

Looking round the House of Commons now gathered for its second Session, one is struck by the
havoc death and other circumstances have made with the assembly that filled the same chamber
twenty years ago, when I first looked on from behind the Speaker's Chair. Parliament, like
the heathen goddess, devours its own children. But the rapidity with which the process is completed
turns out on minute inquiry to be a little startling. Of the six hundred and seventy members
who form the present House of Commons, how many does the Speaker suppose sat with him in the
Session of 1873?

Mr. Peel himself was then in the very prime of life, had already been eight years member for
Warwick, and by favour of his father's old friend and once young disciple, held the office
of Parliamentary Secretary to the Board of Trade. Members, if they paid any attention to the
unobtrusive personality seated at the remote end of the Treasury Bench, never thought the day
would come when the member for Warwick would step into the Chair and rapidly establish a reputation
as the best Speaker of modern times.

I have a recollection of seeing Mr. Peel stand at the table answering a question connected
with his department; but I noticed him only because he was the youngest son of the great Sir
Robert Peel, and was a striking contrast to his brother Robert, a flamboyant personage who
at that time filled considerable space below the gangway.

In addition to Mr. Peel there are in the present House of Commons exactly fifty-one members
who sat in Parliament in the Session of 1873--fifty-two out of six hundred and fifty-eight
as the House of that day was numbered. Ticking them off in alphabetical order, the first of
the Old Guard, still hale and enjoying the respect and esteem of members on both sides of the
House, is Sir Walter Barttelot. As Colonel Barttelot he was known to the Parliament of 1873.
But since then, to quote a phrase he has emphatically reiterated in the ears of many Parliaments,
he has "gone one step farther," and become a baronet.

This tendency to forward movement seems to have been hereditary; Sir Walter's father, long
honourably known as Smyth, going "one step farther" and assuming the name of Barttelot. Colonel
Barttelot did not loom large in the Parliament of 1868-74, though he was always ready to do
sentry duty on nights when the House was in Committee on the Army Estimates. It was the Parliament
of 1874-80, when the air was full of rumours of war, when Russia and Turkey clutched each other
by the throat at Plevna, and when the House of Commons, meeting for ordinary business, was
one night startled by news that the Russian Army was at the gates of Constantinople--it was
then Colonel Barttelot's military experience (chiefly gained in discharge of his duties as
Lieutenant-Colonel of the Second Battalion Sussex Rifle Volunteers) was lavishly placed at
the disposal of the House and the country.

When Disraeli was going out of office he made the Colonel a baronet, a distinction the more
honourable to both since Colonel Barttelot, though a loyal Conservative, was never a party hack.

Sir Michael Beach sat for East Gloucestershire in 1873, and had not climbed higher up the Ministerial
ladder than the Under Secretaryship of the Home Department. Another Beach, then as now in the
House, was the member for North Hants. William Wither Bramston Beach is his full style. Mr.
Beach has been in Parliament thirty-six years, having through that period uninterruptedly represented
his native county, Hampshire. That is a distinction he shares with few members to-day, and
to it is added the privilege of being personally the obscurest man in the Commons. I do not
suppose there are a hundred men in the House to-day who at a full muster could point out the
member for Andover. A close attendance upon Parliament through twenty years necessarily gives
me a pretty intimate knowledge of members. But I not only do not know Mr. Beach by sight, but
never heard of his existence till, attracted by the study of relics of the Parliament elected
in 1868, I went through the list.

Another old member still with us is Mr. Michael Biddulph, a partner in that highly-respectable
firm, Cocks, Biddulph, and Co. Twenty years ago Mr. Biddulph sat as member for his native county
of Hereford, ranked as a Liberal and a reformer, and voted for the Disestablishment of the
Irish Church and other measures forming part of Mr. Gladstone's policy. But political events
with him, as with some others, have moved too rapidly, and now he, sitting as member for the
Ross Division of the county, votes with the Conservatives.

Mr. Jacob Bright is still left to us, representing a division of the city for which he was
first elected in November, 1867. Mr. A. H. Brown represents to-day a Shropshire borough, as
he did twenty years ago. I do not think he looks a day older than when he sat for Wenlock in
1873. But though then only twenty-nine, as the almanack reckons, he was a middle-aged young
man with whom it was always difficult to connect associations of a cornetcy in the 5th Dragoon
Guards, a post of danger which family tradition persistently assigns to him. Twenty years ago
the House was still struggling with the necessity of recognising a Mr. Campbell-Bannerman.
In 1868, one Mr. Henry Campbell had been elected member for the Stirling Districts. Four years
later, for reasons, it is understood, not unconnected with a legacy, he added the name of Bannerman
to his patronymic. At that time, and till the dissolution, he sat on the Treasury Bench as
Financial Secretary to the War Office.

Mr. Henry Chaplin is another member, happily still left to us, who has, over a long space of
years, represented his native county. It was as member for Mid-Lincolnshire he entered the
House of Commons at the memorable general election of 1868, the fate of the large majority
of his colleagues impressing upon him at the epoch a deeply rooted dislike of Mr. Gladstone
and all his works.

Mr. Jeremiah James Colman, still member for Norwich, has sat for that borough since February,
1871, and has preserved, unto this last, the sturdy Liberalism imbued with which he embarked
on political life. When he entered the House he made the solemn record that J. J. C. "does
not consider the recent Reform Bill as the end at which we should rest." The Liberal Party
has marched far since then, and the great Norwich manufacturer has always mustered in the van.

In the Session of 1873, Sir Charles Dilke had but lately crossed the threshold of manhood,
bearing his days before him, and possibly viewing the brilliant career through which for a
time he strongly strode. Just thirty, married a year, home from his trip round the world, with
Greater Britain still running through successive editions, the young member for Chelsea had
the ball at his feet. He had lately kicked it with audacious eccentricity. Two years earlier
he had made his speech in Committee of Supply on the Civil List. If such an address were delivered
in the coming Session it would barely attract notice any more than does a journey to America
in one of the White Star Liners. It was different in the case of Columbus, and in degree Sir
Charles Dilke was the Columbus of attack on the extravagance in connection with the Court.

What he said then is said now every Session, with sharper point, and even more uncompromising
directness, by Mr. Labouchere, Mr. Storey, and others. It was new to the House of Commons twenty-two
years ago, and when Mr. Auberon Herbert (to-day a sedate gentleman, who writes good Tory letters
to the Times) seconded the motion in a speech of almost hysterical vehemence, there followed
a scene that stands memorable even in the long series that succeeded it in the following Parliament.
Mr. James Lowther was profoundly moved; whilst as for Mr. Cavendish Bentinck, his feelings
of loyalty to the Throne were so overwrought that, as was recorded at the time, he went out
behind the Speaker's chair, and crowed thrice. Amid the uproar, someone, anticipating the action
of Mr. Joseph Gillis Biggar on another historic occasion, "spied strangers." The galleries
were cleared, and for an hour there raged throughout the House a wild scene. When the doors
were opened and the public readmitted, the Committee was found placidly agreeing to the vote
Sir Charles Dilke had challenged.

Mr. George Dixon is one of the members for Birmingham, as he was twenty years ago, but he wears
his party rue with a difference. In 1873 he caused himself to be entered in "Dod" as "an advanced
Liberal, opposed to the ratepaying clause of the Reform Act, and in favour of an amendment
of those laws which tend to accumulate landed property." Now Mr. Dixon has joined "the gentlemen
of England," whose tendency to accumulate landed property shocks him no more.

Sir William Dyke was plain Hart Dyke in '73; then, as now, one of the members for Kent, and
not yet whip of the Liberal Party, much less Minister of Education. Mr. G. H. Finch also then,
as now, was member for Rutland, running Mr. Beach close for the prize of modest obscurity.

In the Session of 1873 Mr. Gladstone was Prime Minister, sixty-four years of age, and wearied
to death. I well remember him seated on the Treasury Bench in those days, with eager face and
restless body. Sometimes, as morning broke on the long, turbulent sitting, he let his head
fall back on the bench, closing his eyes and seeming to sleep; the worn face the while taking
on ten years of added age. In the last two Sessions of the Salisbury Parliament he often looked
younger than he had done eighteen or nineteen years earlier. Then, as has happened to him since,
his enemies were those of his own household. This Session--of 1873--saw the birth of the Irish
University Bill, which broke the power of the strongest Ministry that had ruled in England
since the Reform Bill.

Mr. Gladstone introduced the Bill himself, and though it was singularly intricate, he within
the space of three hours not only made it clear from preamble to schedule, but had talked over
a predeterminedly hostile House into believing it would do well to accept it. Mr. Horsman,
not an emotional person, went home after listening to the speech, and wrote a glowing letter
to the Times, in which he hailed Mr. Gladstone and the Irish University Bill as the most notable
of the recent dispensations of a beneficent Providence. Later, when the Tea-room teemed with
cabal, and revolt rapidly spread through the Liberal host, presaging the defeat of the Government,
Mr. Horsman, in his most solemn manner, explained away this letter to a crowded and hilarious
House. The only difference between him and seven-eighths of Mr. Gladstone's audience was that
he had committed the indiscretion of putting pen to paper whilst he was yet under the spell
of the orator, the others going home to bed to think it over.

On the eve of a new departure, once more Premier, idol of the populace, and captain of a majority
in the House of Commons, Mr. Gladstone's thoughts may peradventure turn to those weary days
twenty years dead. He would not forget one Wednesday afternoon when the University Education
Bill was in Committee, and Mr. Charles Miall was speaking from the middle of the third bench
below the gangway. The Nonconformist conscience then, as now, was a ticklish thing. It had
been pricked by too generous provision made for an alien Church, and Mr. Miall was solemnly,
and with indubitable honest regret, explaining how it would be impossible for him to support
the Government. Mr. Gladstone listened with lowering brow and face growing ashy pale with anger.
When plain, commonplace Mr. Miall resumed his seat, Mr. Gladstone leaped to his feet with torpedoic
action and energy. With voice stinging with angry scorn, and with magnificent gesture of the
hand, designed for the cluster of malcontents below the gangway, he besought the honourable
gentleman "in Heaven's name" to take his support elsewhere. The injunction was obeyed. The
Bill was thrown out by a majority of three, and though, Mr. Disraeli wisely declining to take
office, Mr. Gladstone remained on the Treasury Bench, his power was shattered, and he and the
Liberal party went out into the wilderness to tarry there for six long years.

To this catastrophe gentlemen at that time respectively known as Mr. Vernon Harcourt and Mr.
Henry James appreciably contributed. They worried Mr. Gladstone into dividing between them
the law offices of the Crown. But this turn of affairs came too late to be of advantage to
the nation. The only reminders of that episode in their political career are the title of knighthood
and a six months' salary earned in the recess preceding the general election of 1874.

Mr. Disraeli's keen sight recognised the game being played on the Front Bench below the gangway,
where the two then inseparable friends sat shoulder to shoulder. "I do not know," he slyly
said, one night when the Ministerial crisis was impending, "whether the House is yet to regard
the observations of the hon. member for Oxford (Vernon Harcourt) as carrying the authority
of a Solicitor-General!"

Of members holding official or ex-official positions who will gather in the House of Commons
this month, and who were in Parliament in 1873, are Mr. Goschen, then First Lord of the Admiralty,
and Liberal member for the City of London; Lord George Hamilton, member for Middlesex, and
not yet a Minister; Mr. Shaw-Lefevre, member for Reading, and Secretary to the Admiralty; Mr.
J. Lowther, not yet advanced beyond the Secretaryship of the Poor Law Board, and that held
only for a few months pending the Tory rout in 1868; Mr. Henry Matthews, then sitting as Liberal
member for Dungarvan, proud of having voted for the Disestablishment of the Irish Church in
1869; Mr. Osborne Morgan, not yet on the Treasury Bench; Mr. Mundella, inseparable from Sheffield,
then sitting below the gangway, serving a useful apprenticeship for the high office to which
he has since been called; George Otto Trevelyan, now Sir George, then his highest title to
fame being the Competition Wallah; Mr. David Plunket, member for Dublin University, a private
member seated on a back bench; Sir Ughtred Kay-Shuttleworth, just married, interested in the
"First Principles of Modern Chemistry"; and Mr. Stansfeld, President of the Local Government
Board, the still rising hope of the Radical party.

But here there seems a mistake. There was an Edward James Saunderson in the Session of 1873
as there is one in the Session of 1893: But Edward James of twenty years ago sat for Cavan,
ranked as a Liberal, and voted with Mr. Gladstone, which the Colonel Saunderson of to-day certainly
does not. Yet, oddly enough, both date their election addresses from Castle Saunderson, Belturbet,
Co. Cavan.

A SLAVE

BY LEÏLA-HANOUM.

TRANSLATED FROM A TURKISH STORY.

I.

I was sold in Circassia when I was only six years old. My uncle, Hamdi-bey, who had inherited
nothing from his dying brother but two children, soon got rid of us both. My brother Ali was
handed over to some dervishes at the Mosque of Yéni-Chéïr, and I was sent to Constantinople.

The slave-dealer to whom I was taken was a woman who knew nothing of our language, so that
I was obliged to learn Turkish in order to understand my new mistress. Numbers of customers
came to her, and every day one or other of my companion slaves went away with their new owners.

Alas! my lot seemed terrible to me. I was nothing but a slave, and as such I had to humble
myself to the dust in the presence of my mistress, who brought us up to be able to listen with
the most immovable expression on our faces, and with smiles on our lips, to all the good qualities
or faults that her customers found in us.

The first time that I was taken to the sélamlik (reception-room) I was ten years old. I was
considered very pretty, and my mistress had bought me a costume of pink cotton, covered with
a floral design; she had had my nails tinted and my hair plaited, and expected to get a very
good price for me. I had been taught to dance, to curtesy humbly to the men and to kiss the
ladies' féradje (cloaks), to hand the coffee (whilst kneeling) to the visitors, or stand by
the door with my arms folded ready to answer the first summons. These were certainly not very
great accomplishments, but for a child of my age they were considered enough, especially as,
added to all that, I had a very white skin, a slender, graceful figure, black eyes and beautiful
teeth.

I felt very much agitated on finding myself amongst all the other slaves who were waiting for
purchasers. Most of them were poor girls who had been brought there to be exchanged. They had
been sent away from one harem, and would probably have to go to some other. My heart was filled
with a vague kind of dread of I knew not what, when suddenly my eyes rested on three hideous
negroes, who had come there to buy some slaves for the harem of their Pasha. They were all
three leaning back on the sofa discussing the merits and defects of the various girls standing
around them.

"Her eyes are too near together," said one of them.

"That one looks ill."

"This tall one is so round-backed."

I shivered on hearing these remarks, whilst the poor girls themselves blushed with shame or
turned livid with anger.

"Come here, Féliknaz," called out my mistress, for I was hiding behind my companions. I went
forward with lowered eyes, but my heart was beating wildly with indignation and fear. As soon
as the negroes caught sight of me they said something in Arabic and laughed, and this was not
lost on my mistress.

"Where does this one come from?" asked one of them, after examining me attentively.

"She is a Circassian. She has cost me a lot of money, for I bought her four years ago and have
been bringing her up carefully. She is very intelligent and will be very pretty. Bir elmay
(quite a diamond)," she added, in a whisper. "Féliknaz, dance for us, and show us how graceful
you can be."

I drew back, blushing, and murmured, "There is no music for me to dance to."

"That doesn't matter at all. I'll sing something for you. Come, commence at once!"

I bowed silently and went back to the end of the room, and then came forward again dancing,
bowing to the right and left on my way, whilst my mistress beat time on an old drum and sang
the air of the yassédi dance in a hoarse voice. In spite of my pride and my terror, my dancing
appeared to please these men.

"We will certainly buy Féliknaz," said one of them; "how much will you take for her?"

"Twelve Késatchiés[A]! not a fraction less."

The negro drew a large purse out of his pocket and counted the money over to my mistress. As
soon as she had received it she turned to me and said:--

"You ought to be thankful, Féliknaz, for you are a lucky girl. Here you are, the first time
you have been shown, bought for the wealthy Saïd Pasha, and you are to wait upon a charming
Hanoum of your own age. Mind and be obedient, Féliknaz; it is the only thing for a slave."

I bent to kiss my mistress's hand, but she raised my face and kissed my forehead. This caress
was too much for me at such a moment, and my eyes filled with tears. An intense craving for
affection is always felt by all who are desolate. Orphans and slaves especially know this to
their cost.

The negroes laughed at my sensitiveness, and pushed me towards the door, one of them saying,
"You've got a soft heart and a face of marble, but you will change as you get older."

I did not attempt to reply, but just walked along in silence. It would be impossible to give
an idea of the anguish I felt when walking through the Stamboul streets, my hand held by one
of these men. I wondered what kind of a harem I was going to be put into. "Oh, Allah!" I cried,
and I lifted my eyes towards Him, and He surely heard my unuttered prayer, for is not Allah
the protector of all who are wretched and forlorn?

[Footnote A: One Késatchié is about £4 10s.]

II.

The old slave-woman had told me the truth. My new mistress, Adilé-Hanoum, was good and kind,
and to this day my heart is filled with gratitude when I think of her.

Allah had certainly cared for me. So many of my companion-slaves had, at ten years old, been
obliged to go and live in some poor Mussulman's house to do the rough work and look after the
children. They had to live in unhealthy parts of the town, and for them the hardships of poverty
were added to the miseries of slavery, whilst I had a most luxurious life, and was petted and
cared for by Adilé-Hanoum.

I had only one trouble in my new home, and that was the cruelty and the fear I felt of my little
mistress's brother, Mourad-bey. It seemed as though, for some inexplicable reason, he hated
me; and he took every opportunity of teasing me, and was only satisfied when I took refuge
at his sister's feet and burst into tears.

In spite of all this I liked Mourad-bey. He was six years older than I, and was so strong and
handsome that I could not help forgiving him; and, indeed, I just worshipped him.

When Adilé-Hanoum was fourteen her parents engaged her to a young Bey who lived at Salonica,
and whom she would not see until the eve of her marriage. This Turkish custom of marrying a
perfect stranger seemed to me terrible, and I spoke of it to my young mistress.

She replied in a resigned tone: "Why should we trouble ourselves about a future which Allah
has arranged? Each star is safe in the firmament, no matter in what place it is."

       *       *       *       *       *

One evening I was walking up and down on the closed balcony outside the haremlik. I was feeling
very sad and lonely, when suddenly I heard steps behind me, and by the beating of my heart
I knew that it was Mourad-bey.

"Féliknaz," he said, seizing me by the arm, "what are you doing here, all alone?"

"I was thinking of my country, Bey-Effendi. In our Circassia all men are equal, just like the
ears of corn in a field."

"Look up at me again like that, Féliknaz; your eyes are gloomy and troubled, like the Bosphorus
on a stormy day."

"It is because my heart is like that," I said, sadly.

"Do you know that I am going to be married?" he asked, after a moment's silence.

I did not reply, but kept my eyes fixed on the ground.

"You are thinking how unhappy I shall make my wife," he continued: "how she will suffer from
my bad treatment."

"Oh! no," I exclaimed. "I do not think she will be unhappy. You will, of course, love her,
and that is different. You are unkind to me, but then that is not the same."

"You think I do not love you," said the Bey, taking my hands and pressing them so that it seemed
as though he would crush them in his grasp. "You are mistaken, Féliknaz. I love you madly,
passionately; I love you so much that I would rather see you dead here at my feet than that
you should ever belong to any other than to me!"

"Why have you been so unkind to me always, then?" I murmured, half-closing my eyes, for he
was gazing at me with such an intense expression on his dark, handsome face that I felt I dare
not look up at him again.

"Because when I have seen you suffering through me it has hurt me too; and yet it has been
a joy to me to know you were thinking of me and to suffer with you, for whenever I have made
you unhappy, little one, I have been still more so myself. Your smiles and your gentleness
have tamed me though, at last; and now you shall be mine, not as Féliknaz the slave, but as
Féliknaz-Hanoum, for I respect you, my darling, as much as I love you!"

Mourad-bey then took me in his arms and kissed my face and neck, and then he went back to his
rooms, leaving me there leaning on the balcony and trembling all over.

Allah had surely cared for me, for I had never even dared to dream of such happiness as this.

III.

And so I became a Hanoum. My dear Adilé was my sister, and though after years of habit I was
always throwing myself down at her feet, she would make me get up and sit at her side, either
on the divan or in the carriage. Mourad's love for me had put aside the barrier which had separated
us. There was, however, now a terrible one between my slaves and myself. Most of them were
poor girls from my own country and of my own rank. Until now we had been companions and friends,
but I felt that they detested me at present as much as they used to love me, and I was afraid
of their hatred. They had all of them undoubtedly hoped to find favour in the eyes of their
young master, and now that I was raised to so high a position their hatred was terrible. I
did my utmost: I obtained all kinds of favours for them; but all to no purpose, for they were
unjust and unreasonable.

My great refuge and consolation was Mourad's love for me--he was now just as gentle and considerate
as he had been tyrannical and overbearing. My sister-in-law was married on the same day that
I was, and went away to Salonica, and so I lost my dearest friend.

IV.

Mourad loved me, I think, more and more, and when a little son was born to us it seemed as
though my cup of happiness was full. I had only one trouble: the knowledge of the hatred of
my slaves; and after the birth of my little boy, that increased, for in the East, the only
bond which makes a marriage indissoluble is the birth of a child.

When our little son was a few months old Mourad went to spend a week with his father, who was
then living at Béïcos. I did not mind staying alone for a few days, as all my time was taken
up with my baby-boy. I took entire charge of him, and would not trust anyone else to watch
over him at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

One night, when eleven o'clock struck, everything was silent in the harem; evidently everyone
was asleep.

Suddenly the door of my room was pushed open, and I saw the face of one of my slaves. She was
very pale, and said in a defiant tone, "Fire, fire! The conak (house) is on fire!" Then she
laughed, a terrible, wild laugh it was too, and she locked my door and rushed away. Fire! Why,
that meant ruin and death!

I had jumped up immediately, and now rushed to the window. There was a red glow in the sky
over our house and I heard the crackling of wood and saw terrible smoke. Nearly wild with fright
I took my child in my arms, snatched up my case of jewels, and wrapping myself up in a long
white simare, I hurried to the door. Alas! it was too true; the girl had indeed locked it!
The window, with lattice-work outside, looked on to a paved court-yard, and my room was on
the second floor of the house. I heard the cry of "Yanghen var!" (fire, fire) being repeated
like an echo to my misery.

"Oh, Allah!" I cried, "my child, my child!" A shiver ran through me at the horrible idea of
being burned alive and not being able to save him.

I called out from the window, but all in vain. The noisy crowd on the other side of the house,
and the crackling of the wood, drowned the sound of my voice.

I did my utmost to keep calm, and I walked again to the door and shook it with all my strength;
then I went and looked out of the window, but that only offered us a speedy and certain death.
I could now hear the sound of the beams giving way overhead. Had I been alone I should undoubtedly
have fainted, but I had my child, and so I was obliged to be brave.

Suddenly an idea came to me. There was a little closet leading out of my room, in which we
kept extra covers and mattresses for the beds. There was a small window in this closet looking
on to the roof of the stables. This was my only hope or chance. I fastened my child firmly
to me with a wide silk scarf, and then I got out of the window and dropped on to the roof of
the stable, which was about two yards below. Everything around me was covered with smoke, but
fortunately there were gusts of wind, which drove it away, enabling me to see what I was doing.
From the roof to the ground I had to let myself down, and then jump. I sprained my wrist and
hurt my head terribly in falling, but my child was safe. I rushed across the court-yard and
out to the opposite side of the road, and had only just time to sit down behind a low wall
away from the crowd, when I fainted away.

V.

When I came to myself again, nothing remained of our home but a smoking ruin, upon which the
touloumbad jis were still throwing water. The neighbours and a crowd of other people were watching
the fire finish its work. Not very far away from me, among the spectators, I recognised Mourad-bey,
standing in the midst of a little group of friends.

His face was perfectly livid, and his eyes were wild with grief. I saw him pick up a burning
splinter from the wreck of his home, where he believed all that he loved had perished. He offered
it to his friend, who was lighting his cigarette, and said, bitterly, "This is the only hospitality
I have now to offer!"

The tone of his voice startled me--it was full of utter despair, and I saw that his lips quivered
as he spoke.

I could not bear to see him suffer like that another second.

"Bey Effendi!" I cried, "your son is saved!"

He turned round, but I was covered with my torn simare, which was all stained with mud; the
light did not fall on me, and he did not recognise me at all. My voice, too, must have sounded
strange, for after all the emotion and torture I had gone through, and then my long fainting-fit,
I could scarcely articulate a sound. He saw the baby which I was holding up, and stepped forward.

"What is he to me," he said, "without my Féliknaz?"

"Mourad!" I exclaimed, "I am here, too! He darted to me, and took me in his arms; then, with
his eyes full of tears, he looked at tenderly and kissed me over and again.

"Effendis," he cried, turning at last to his friends, and with a joyous ring in his voice,
"I thought I was ruined, but Allah has given me back my dearest treasure. Do not pity me any
more, I am perfectly happy!"

       *       *       *       *       *

We lost a great deal of our wealth by that fire. Our slaves had escaped, taking with them all
our most valuable things.

Mourad is quite certain that the women had set fire to the house from jealousy, but instead
of regretting our former wealth, he does all in his power to make up for it by increased attention
and care for me, and his only trouble is to see me waiting upon him.

But whenever he says anything about that I throw my arms around his neck and whisper, "Have
you forgotten, Mourad, my husband, that your Féliknaz is your slave?"

The Queer Side of Things.

or

The Story of the King's Idea

One day the Lord Chamberlain rushed into the throne-room of the palace, panting with excitement.
The aristocracy assembled there crowded round him with intense interest.

"The King has just got a new Idea!" he gasped, with eyes round with admiration. "Such a magnificent
Idea--!"

"It is indeed! Marvellous!" said the aristocracy. "By Jove--really the most brilliant Idea
we ever----!"

"But you haven't heard the Idea yet," said the Lord Chamberlain. "It's this," and he proceeded
to tell them the Idea. They were stricken dumb with reverential admiration; it was some time
before they could even coo little murmurs of inarticulate wonder.

"The King has just got a new Idea," cried the Royal footman (who was also reporter to the Press),
bursting into the office of The Courtier, the leading aristocratic paper, with earls for compositors,
and heirs to baronetcies for devils.

"Has he, indeed? Splendid!" cried the editor. "Here, Jones"--(the Duke of Jones, chief leader-writer)--"just
let me have three columns in praise of the King's Idea. Enlarge upon the glorious results it
will bring about in the direction of national glory, imperial unity, commercial prosperity,
individual liberty and morality, domestic----"

"But hadn't I better tell you the Idea?" said the reporter.

"Well, you might do that perhaps," said the editor.

Then the footman went off to the office of the Immovable--the leading paper of the Hangback
party, and cried, "The King has got a new Idea!"

"Ha!" said the editor. "Mr. Smith, will you kindly do me a column in support of His Majesty's
new Idea?"

"Hum! Well, you see," put in Mr. Smith, the eminent journalist. "How about the new contingent
of readers you said you were anxious to net--the readers who are not altogether satisfied with
the recent attitude of His Majesty?"

"Oh! ah! I quite forgot," said the editor. "Look here, then, just do me an enigmatical and
oracular article that can be read either way."

"Right," replied the eminent journalist. "By the way, I didn't tell you the Idea," suggested
the footman.

"Oh! that doesn't matter; but there, you can, if you like," said the editor.

After that the footman sold the news of the Idea to an ordinary reporter, who dealt with the
Rushahead and the revolutionary papers; and the reporter rushed into the office of the Whirler,
the leading Rushahead paper.

"King! New Idea!" said the editor of the Whirler. "Here, do me five columns of amiable satire
upon the King's Idea; keep up the tone of loyalty--tolerant loyalty--of course; and try to
keep hold of those readers the Immovable is fishing for, of course."

"Very good," said Brown.

"Shall I tell you the Idea?" asked the reporter.

"Ah! yes; if you want to," replied editor.

Then the reporter rushed off to the Shouter, the leading revolutionary journal.

"Here!--hi!--Cruncher!" shouted the editor; "King's got a new Idea. Do me a whole number full
of scathing satire, bitter recrimination, vague menace, and so on, about the King's Idea. Dwell
on the selfishness and class-invidiousness of the Idea--on the resultant injury to the working
classes and the poor; show how it is another deliberate blow to the writhing son of toil--you
know."

"I know," said Redwrag, the eminent Trafalgar Square journalist.

"Wouldn't you like to hear what the Idea is?" asked the reporter.

"No, I should NOT!" thundered the editor. "Don't defile my ears with particulars!"

The moment the public heard how the King had got a new Idea, they rushed to their newspapers
to ascertain what judgment they ought to form upon it; and, as the newspaper writers had carefully
thought out what sort of judgment their public would like to form upon it, the leading articles
exactly reflected the views which that public feebly and half-consciously held, but would have
feared to express without support; and everything was prejudiced and satisfactory.

Well, on the whole, the public verdict was decidedly in favour of the King's Idea, which enabled
the newspapers gradually to work up a fervent enthusiasm in their columns; until at length
it had become the very finest Idea ever evolved. After a time it was suggested that a day should
be fixed for public rejoicings in celebration of the King's Idea; and the scheme grew until
it was decided in the Lords and Commons that the King should proceed in state to the cathedral
on the day of rejoicing, and be crowned as Emperor in honour of the Idea. There was only one
little bit of dissent in the Lower House; and that was when Mr. Corderoy, M.P. for the Rattenwell
Division of Strikeston, moved, as an amendment, that Bill Firebrand, dismissed by his employer
for blowing up his factory, should be allowed a civil service pension.

So the important day came, and everybody took a holiday except the pickpockets and the police;
and the King was crowned Emperor in the cathedral, with a grand choral service; and the Laureate
wrote a fine poem calling upon the universe to admire the Idea, and describing the King as
the greatest and most virtuous King ever invented. It was a very fine poem, beginning:--

    Notion that roars and rolls, lapping the stars with its hem;
      Bursting the bands of Space, dwarfing eternal Aye.

It became tacitly admitted that the King was the very greatest King in the world; and he was
made an honorary fellow of the Society of Wiseacres and D.C.L. of the universities.

But one day it leaked out that the Idea was not the King's but the Prime Minister's. It would
not have been known but for the Prime Minister having taken offence at the refusal of the King
to appoint a Socialist agitator to the vacant post of Lord Chamberlain. You see, it was this
way--the Prime Minister was very anxious to get in his right-hand man for the eastern division
of Grumbury, N. Now, the Revolutionaries were very strong in the eastern division of Grumbury,
and, by winning the favour of the agitator, the votes of the Revolutionaries would be secured.
So, when the King refused to appoint the agitator, the Prime Minister, out of nastiness, let
out that the Idea had really been his, and it had been he who had suggested it to the King.

There were great difficulties now; for the honours which had been conferred on the King because
of his Idea could not be cancelled; the title of Emperor could not be taken away again, nor
the great poem unwritten. The latter step, especially, was not to be thought of; for a leading
firm of publishers were just about to issue an édition de luxe of the poem with sumptuous illustrations,
engraved on diamond, from the pencil of an eminent R.A. who had become a classic and forgotten
how to draw. (His name, however, could still draw: so he left the matter to that.)

Well, everybody, except a few newspapers, said nothing about the King's part in the affair;
but the warmest eulogies were passed on the Prime Minister by the papers of his political persuasion,
and by the public in general. The Prime Minister was now the most wonderful person in existence;
and a great public testimonial was got up for him in the shape of a wreath cut out of a single
ruby; the colonies got up a millennial exhibition in his honour, at which the chief exhibits
were his cast-off clothes, a lock of his hair, a bad sixpence he had passed, and other relics.
He was invited everywhere at once; and it became the fashion for ladies to send him a slice
of bread and butter to take a bite out of, and subsequently frame the slice with the piece
bitten out, or wear it on State occasions as a necklace pendant. At length the King felt himself,
with many wry faces, compelled to make the Prime Minister a K.C.B., a K.G., and other typographical
combinations, together with an earl, and subsequently a duke.

So the Prime Minister retired luxuriously to the Upper House and sat in a nice armchair, with
his feet on another, instead of on a hard bench.

Then it suddenly came out that the Idea was not the Prime Minister's either, but had been evolved
by his Private Secretary. This was another shock to the nation. It was suggested by one low-class
newspaper conspicuous for bad taste that the Prime Minister should resign the dukedom and the
capital letters and the ruby wreath, seeing that he had obtained them on false pretences; but
he did not seem to see his way to do these things: on the contrary, he very incisively asked
what would be the use of a man's becoming Prime Minister if it was only to resign things to
which he had no right. Still, he did the handsome thing: he presented an autograph portrait
of himself to the Secretary, together with a new £5 note, as a recognition of any inconvenience
he might have suffered in consequence of the mistake.

Now, too, there was another little difficulty: the Private Secretary was, to a certain extent,
an influential man, but not sufficiently influential for an Idea of his to be so brilliant
as one evolved by a King or a Prime Minister. Nevertheless, the Press and the public generously
decided that the Idea was a good one, although it had its assailable points; so the Private
Secretary was considerably boomed in the dailies and weeklies, and interviewed (with portrait)
in the magazines; and he was a made man.

But, after he had got made, it was accidentally divulged that the Idea had never been his at
all, but had sprung from the intelligence of his brother, an obscure Government Clerk.

There it was again--the Private Secretary, having been made, could not be disintegrated; so
he continued to enjoy his good luck, with the exception of the £5 note, which the Prime Minister
privately requested him to return with interest at 10 per cent.

It was put about at first that the Clerk who had originated the Idea was a person of some position;
and so the Idea continued to enjoy a certain amount of eulogy and commendation; but when it
was subsequently divulged that the Clerk was merely a nobody, and only had a salary of five
and twenty shillings a week on account of his having no lord for a relation, it was at once
seen that the Idea, although ingenious, was really, on being looked into, hardly a practicable
one. However, the affair brought the Clerk into notice; so he went on the stage just as the
excitement over the affair was at its height, and made quite a success, although he couldn't
act a bit.

And then it was proved beyond a doubt that the Clerk had not found the Idea at all, but had
got it from a Pauper whom he knew in the St. Weektee's union workhouse. So the Clerk was called
upon in the Press to give up his success on the boards and go back to his twenty-five shilling
clerkship; but he refused to do this, and wrote a letter to a newspaper, headed, "Need an actor
be able to act?" and, it being the off-season and the subject a likely one, the letter was
answered next day by a member of the newspaper's staff temporarily disguised as "A Call-Boy"--and
all this gave the Clerk another lift.

About the Pauper's Idea there was no difficulty whatever; every newspaper and every member
of the public had perceived long ago, on the Idea being originally mooted, that there was really
nothing at all in it; and the Chuckler had a very funny article, bursting with new and flowery
turns of speech, by its special polyglot contributor who made you die o' laughing about the
Peirastic and Percipient Pauper.

So the Pauper was not allowed his evening out for a month; and it became a question whether
he ought not to be brought up before a magistrate and charged with something or other; but
the matter was magnanimously permitted to drop.

By this time the public had had a little too much of it, as they were nearly reduced to beggary
by the contributions they had given to one ideal-originator after another; and they certainly
would have lynched any new aspirant to the Idea, had one (sufficiently uninfluential) turned up.

And, meanwhile, the Idea had been quietly taken up and set going by a select company of patriotic
personages who were in a position to set the ball rolling; and the Idea grew, and developed,
and developed, until it had attained considerable proportions and could be seen to be full
of vast potentialities either for the welfare or the injury of the Empire, according to the
way in which it might be worked out.

Now, at the outset, owing to tremendous opposition from various quarters, the Idea worked out
so badly that it threatened incalculable harm to the commerce and general happiness of the
realm; whereupon the public decided that it certainly must have originated with the Pauper;
and they went and dragged him from the workhouse, and were about to hang him to a lamp-post,
when news arrived that the Idea was doing less harm to the Empire than had been supposed.

So they let the Pauper go; for it became evident to them that it had been the Clerk's Idea;
and just as they were deliberating what to do with the Clerk, it was discovered that the Idea
was really beginning to work out very well indeed, and was decidedly increasing the prosperity
of the realm. Thereupon the public decided that it must have been the Private Secretary's Idea,
after all; and were just setting out in a deputation to thank the Private Secretary, when fresh
reports arrived showing that the Idea was a very great national boon; and then the public felt
that it must have originated with the Prime Minister, in spite of all that had been said to
the contrary.

But in the course of a few months, everybody in the land became aware that the tide of national
prosperity and happiness was indeed advancing in the most glorious way, and all owing to the
Great Idea; and now they perceived as one man that it had been the King's own Idea, and no
doubt about the matter. So they made another day of rejoicing, and presented the King with
a diamond throne and a new crown with "A1" in large letters upon it. And that King was ever
after known as the very greatest King that had ever reigned.

But it was the Pauper's Idea after all.

J. F. SULLIVAN.

These are two photographs of a "turnip," unearthed a little time ago by a Lancashire farmer.
We are indebted for the photographs to Mr. Alfred Whalley, 15, Solent Crescent, West Hampstead.

This is a photo. of a hock bottle that was washed ashore at Lyme Regis covered with barnacles,
which look like a bunch of flowers. The photograph has been sent to us by Mr. F. W. Shephard,
photographer, Lyme Regis.

The drawing, taken from a photo., shows the curious result of a boiler explosion which occurred
some time ago at Soosmezo, in Hungary. The explosion broke the greater part of the windows
in the neighbouring village, and the cylindrical portion of the boiler, not shown in drawing,
as well as the chimney, were hurled some two hundred yards away.

