She had found her answer in a moment, and now indeed she was at the helm, steering them both
past white shores, set in such depths of magical blue, white shores where sirens sang. Never
could they land there, never listen to the song. And already she seemed to hear it, as if from
a far distance, ringing, sharp and strange with the swiftness of their flight, as she replied:
"Nothing else, dear Jack, except that I wish you were my son."

The enchanted island had sunk below the horizon. They were landed, and on the safest, sanest,
shores. She knew that she had achieved her own place, and that from it, secure, above him,
the veil between them, her smile was the smile of motherhood. To smile so was to put before
him finally the fact that her enchantment contradicted and helplessly lured him to forget.
She would never forget it now, nor could he. She was Imogen's mother, and she was old enough
to be his.

From her smile, her eyes, common-sense flooded Jack, kind, yet stinging, too, savoring of a
rescue from some hidden danger,--not his--not his--his was none of the common-sense,--but hers.
He might had she let him, have so dislocated her life.

He was scarlet, stammering. He knew that he hid nothing from her now, that he didn't want or
need to hide anything. Those benign, maternal eyes would understand. And he smiled, too, but
also with a trembling smile, as he reached out to her hand, holding it tightly and saying,
gazing at her:--"I love you so."

Her hand held his, in farewell now, but her look up at him promised everything, everything
for the future,--except the one now shrouded thing. "And I love you, dear Jack," she said.
"You have taken the place of--almost everything."

And then, for she saw the tears in his eyes, and knew that his heart was bleeding, not for
himself alone, she rose and took his head between her hands, and, like a mother, kissed him
above his eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he had left her,--and they said no further word,--Valerie did not again relapse into a
despondent attitude.

The sky was like a deep rose, soft, dim, dying, and the color of the afterglow filled the room.

Standing at the window she breathed in the keen, sweet air, and looked from the dying day down
to her garden.

She had watched Jack disappear among the trees, waving to him, and her heart followed his aching
heart with comprehending pity. But, from her conquest of the thrill, a clear, contemplative
insight was left with her, so that, looking out over the lives she was to watch, she felt herself,
for all her sadness, a merry, if a serious fate, mingling the threads of others' fortunes with
a benignant hand.

Imogen's threads had snapped off very sharply. Imogen would be the better pleased that the
Surrey cottage should know her no more. The pang for the wrecking of all maternal hope passed
strangely into a deeper pang for all that the Surrey cottage stood for in her life, all the
things that she had left to come to Imogen. She remembered. And, for a moment, the old vortex
of whirling anguish almost engulfed her. Only long years could deaden the pang of that parting.
She would not dwell on that. Eddy and Rose; to turn to them was to feel almost gay. Jack and
Mary;--yes, on these last names her thoughts lingered and her gaze for them held tender presages.
That must be.

Jack would not know how her maternal solicitude was to encompass him and mold his way. If the
benignant fate saw clearly, Jack and Mary were to marry. Strange that it should not be from
anything of her own that the deepest call upon her fostering tenderness came. She wasn't needed
by anything of her own. This was the tragedy of her life that, more than youth passed and love
renounced, seemed to drift snows upon her.

But, beyond the personal pang and failure, she could look down at her garden and out at the
quiet, evening vistas. The very flowers seemed to smile gentle promises to her, and to murmur
that, after all, rather than bitterness, failure was to bring humble peace.

Leaning her head against the window, where in the breeze the curtain softly flapped, she looked
out at the tranquil twilight, contented to be sad.

"I will have friends with me," she said to herself; "I will garden and learn a new language.
I will read a great many books." And, with a sense of happy daring, not rebuked by reason,
she could add, thinking of the mingled threads:--"I will have them often here to stay with
me, and, perhaps, they will let me spoil the babies."