The wooden ships, stripped as at New Orleans for the stern work in hand, numbered fourteen,
and the number of guns carried by the fleet was one hundred and fifty-five, throwing, by added
facility of pivot and turret, ninety-two hundred and eight pounds of metal in broadside, from
which thirteen hundred and twenty must be deducted through the early loss of the Tecumseh and
the disabled gun of the Manhattan.

The enemy's defences consisted of Fort Morgan, commanding the channel at Mobile Point, mounting
seventy guns; Fort Gaines, on the eastern point of Dauphin Island, some three miles northwest
of Fort Morgan, armed with thirty guns, and Fort Powell, about four miles from Gaines northwest,
at Grant's Pass, with four guns.

Across the channel, which runs close to Morgan, several lines of torpedoes were planted, and
just beyond them to the northward of the fort, in line abreast waiting their opportunity, was
the rebel squadron, comprising the Tennessee, flagship of Admiral Buchanan, and the gunboats
Morgan, Gaines, and Selma, carrying in the aggregate twenty-two guns--eight rifles and fourteen
smooth-bores. The Tennessee, the most powerful ship that ever flew the Confederate flag, was
two hundred and nine feet in length, and forty-eight feet in width, with a heavy iron spur
projecting from the bow some two feet under water. Her sides "tumbled home" at an angle of
forty-five degrees and were clad in armor of five and six inches thickness, over a structure
of oak and pine of twenty-five inches. Her guns, six heavy Brooke's rifles, were arranged,
by port and pivot, for an effective all-round fire, and her speed was six knots.

All was ready for the attack on the evening of the fourth of August, and at half-past five
the next morning the signal was thrown out to weigh, and fall into the order prescribed; the
wooden ships in couples, and the ironclads in line by themselves; the Tecumseh in the van and
the Chickasaw in rear, according to the rank of their commanding officers.

At half-past six the fleet was across the bar and in order of battle. No starlight or favoring
clouds now, to partially mask its movements as at the passage of Forts Jackson and St. Philip,
but the joyous sunshine, flooding land and sea with its brightness, and mirroring its revealing
gleams upon fort and ship and pennon, serving friend and foe alike impartially. Alas! for the
brave souls to whom that gracious morning light was the last of earth, but we may hope they
awoke in a light of still more radiance and glory, and amid paeans of a joyous host, choiring
"Well done, thou good and faithful servants, that didst give thy lives to God and country!"

The soft south wind of that fair morn came like a benediction to the fleet now sweeping on
with the flood tide, and stillness like a sentient presence, only disturbed by the sound of
screw or paddle-wheel as they turned ahead, hung over the ships till broken by the belching
roar of the Tecumseh's monster guns, as she threw two fifteen-inch shells into Morgan--her
first and last! And now, at seven, "by the chime," the action became general, and the Tecumseh,
having loaded with heaviest charge and solid steel shot, steamed on ahead of the Brooklyn to
attack the Tennessee; but Craven, thinking he saw a movement on the part of the ram to get
out of the way, together with the seemingly too narrow space between the fatal buoy and the
shore for manoeuvre in case of need, gave the order to starboard the helm, and head directly
for the watchful Tennessee, waiting with lock-strings in hand to salute the monitor as she
closed--gallant foeman worthy of her steel! So near and yet so far, for hardly had the Tecumseh
gone a length to the westward of the sentinel buoy, than the fate, already outlined, overwhelmed
her, and her iron walls became coffin, shroud, and winding-sheet to Craven and most of the
brave souls with him, and all so suddenly that those who had seen the disaster could hardly
realize what had taken place.

Ours is not the purpose to follow further the details of the fight, but to go with Perkins
in the Chickasaw and see things as he saw them on that stirring day, as gathered from his letters
and as fortified from other sources. Of tireless energy and restless activity, and sternly
intent upon making the Chickasaw second to none in the grand work demanded of the fleet, he
imparted nerve and enthusiasm throughout the vessel; now in the pilot-house, looking after
the helmsman; then in the forward turret, personally sighting the guns; anon on top of the
turret, taking in the surroundings.

His fine spirit and high moral courage had characteristic illustration when, the night before
the fight, calling his officers into the cabin, he thus addressed them: "Gentlemen, by this
time to-morrow, the fate of this fleet and of Mobile will be sealed. We have all a duty to
perform and a victory to win. I have sent for you to say, that not a drop of wine, liquor,
or beer, is to be drunk on board of this vessel from this hour until the battle is over, and
the victory won, or death has come to us. It is my wish that every officer and man shall go
into battle with a clear head and strong nerves. I rely upon you to comply with this requirement,
confident that the Chickasaw and her crew can thus best perform their whole duty." I had orders
to be reserve force and remain with wooden vessels after passing obstructions. Our course was
between a certain buoy and the shore. This passage was known to be free from torpedoes, and
was left for the blockade runners. All the vessels had orders to keep between that buoy and
the shore, but in other respects the ironclads had separate orders from the wooden vessels.
In the confusion resulting from the destruction of the Tecumseh and the movements of the Brooklyn,
the monitors received no orders and followed in the line of the other vessels." Be it said
in passing, that Perkins had no pilot, and at sight of the Tecumseh's doom, one of the men
in the pilot-house fainted, leaving only Perkins and one man to steer the vessel until the
vigorous methods applied brought the man to, and freshened his pluck! The pilot-house was abaft
the forward turret, not on top, as in the case of the Tecumseh class, and was entered through
a trap-door which was kept open during the fight, for the vessel being unfinished, there was
no way of opening it from inside when closed.

"I pushed forward as rapidly as possible, but my ship anyway was stationed last of the ironclads,
as I was youngest in command. We fired at the fort to keep down its fire till the wooden ships
had passed. When the Tennessee passed, it was on my port side; she then steamed toward Fort
Morgan. Some of our vessels anchored, others kept under weigh, and when the Tennessee approached
the fleet again, she was at once attacked by the wooden vessels, but they made no impression
upon her. An order was now brought to the ironclads by Fleet-Surgeon Palmer for them to attack
the ram, but as they stood for her, she seemed again to move as if retiring toward the fort,
but the Chickasaw overtook her, and after a short engagement, succeeded in forcing her to surrender,
having shot away her smoke-stack, destroyed her steering gear, and jammed her afterparts so
that her stern guns were rendered useless. As she could not steer she drifted down the bay,
head on, and I followed her close, firing as fast as I could, my guns and turrets, in spite
of the strain upon them, continuing in perfect order. When Johnston came on the roof of the
Tennessee and showed the white flag as signal of surrender, no vessel of the fleet was as near
as a quarter of a mile, but the Ossipee was approaching, and her captain was much older than
myself. I was wet with perspiration, begrimed with powder, and exhausted by long-continued
exertion. I drew back and allowed Captain Le Roy to receive the surrender, though my first
lieutenant, Hamilton, said to me at the time: 'Captain, you are making a mistake.'"

Knowing full well that the Chickasaw's eleven-inch shot would not penetrate the stout side-armor
of the Tennessee, Perkins made for the weakest part of the vessel--her stern, and hung there
close aboard, pouring solid shot of iron and steel into that vital part with the accuracy of
pistol-shooting, until the ram surrendered; then taking her in tow, carried her near the flagship.
He had fired fifty-two shots, and, says the officer of the Hartford already quoted: "The guns
of the Chickasaw jammed the steering gear of the ram, also the port stopper of the after port
disabling the after gun, and a shot from the Chickasaw broke Admiral Buchanan's leg."

But said Commander Nicholson of the Manhattan, in his official report: "Of the six fifteen-inch
projectiles fired from this vessel at the rebel ironclad Tennessee, I claim four as having
struck, doing most of the real injuries that she has sustained"; then enumerating the injuries
inflicted, which included most of those claimed for the Chickasaw. Upon which claim put forth
by the Manhattan, the writer ventures the opinion: First, that four hits out of six shots was
poor shooting for a monitor at a target like the Tennessee, and suggestive of considerable
distance between the vessels; second, that eye-witnesses have affirmed that only one of the
Manhattan's shot took effect, a solid shot that struck the ram on the port beam, crushing her
armor and splintering the backing, but not entering the casemate, though leaving a clean hole
through; third, that the effect of that one shot showed what the Manhattan might have accomplished
had she taken as favorable a position as that chosen by the Chickasaw; fourth, that it is believed
the report of a board of survey confirmed the opinion as to that one shot; fifth, that, as
between the great difference of sound in the firing of the fifteen-inch gun and an eleven-inch,
and the greater destructive effect of the larger projectiles which could not but be felt by
those receiving it, the enemy would best be likely to know from what source they sustained
the most vital damage; sixth, that the concurrent opinions of the day, as given by press correspondents,
eye-witnesses to the conflict, magazine summaries, official reports, the praise of Perkins
on every lip, the talk of his promotion by distinguished officers, and the testimony of the
enemy themselves, including Admiral Buchanan and Captain Johnston, all go to show that the
surrender of the Tennessee was due more to the dogged and unrelenting effort and skilful management
of Perkins of the Chickasaw than from any other cause.

Asked the Tennessee's pilot of "Metacomet"

Said Captain Johnston, in the same vein: "If it had not been for that d----d black hulk hanging
on our stern we would have got along well enough; she did us more damage than all the rest
of the Federal fleet."

"The praise of Commander Perkins," wrote a son of Concord, himself an active participant in
the fight, "on the superb management of his command, and the most admirable and efficient working
of his ship, was upon the lips of all."

Pages of similar commendation might be quoted, but what need multiply testimony so direct and
conclusive as to Perkins's gallantry and achievement, questioned only in quarters where the
discretion of silence and suggestion of modesty had best been observed!

