    [Mr. JOHN MORLEY was, on Feb. 6, at Newcastle-on-Tyne,
    initiated a Hon. Member of the Loyal Order of Ancient
    Shepherds, and afterwards, in a speech in the People's
    Palace, sharply criticised Mr. CHAMBERLAIN's plan for Old
    Age Pensions, expressing his preference for "more modest
    operations" in the direction of relaxing and enlarging the
    provisions of the Poor Law.]

To the Tune of Burns's "The Twa Herds."

  O, all ye poor and aged flocks,
  Dealt with in fashion orthodox
  By Bumble bodies hard as rocks,
            And stern as tykes;
  And treated like mere waifs and crooks,
            Or herded Smikes!

  Two brother Shepherds, as men thought,
  Have somehow fallen out and fought,
  Though each your welfare swore he sought;
            Flock-herding elves,
  What can this bickering have brought
            Between themselves?

  O, earnest JOHN and jocund JOE,
  How could two Shepherds shindy so.
  Old Light and New Light, con. and pro?
            Now dash my buttons!
  A squabbling pastor is a foe
            To all poor muttons.

  O Sirs, whoe'er would have expected
  That crook and pipe you'd have neglected,
  By foolish love of fight infected
            Concerning food?
  As though the sheep would have rejected
            Aught that is good!

  What herd like JOSEPH could prevail?
  His voice was heard o'er hill and dale;
  He knew each sheep from head to tail
            In vale or height,
  And told whether 'twas sick or hale
            At the first sight.

  But JOE had a new-fangled plan
  For feeding ancient sheep. The man
  Posed as a true Arcadian,
            With a great gift
  For zeal humanitarian,
            Combined with thrift.

  But JOHN replied, "Pooh-pooh! Your scheme
  Is but an optimistic dream,
  Whose 'shadowy incentives' seem
            The merest spooks.
  Better the ancient plans, I deem,
            Food, folds, and crooks.

  "You do not grapple with the case
  Of poorest sheep, a numerous race.
  As to the black ones, with what face
            Claim care for such?
  'Tis hungry old sheep of good race
            My feelings touch.

  "Your scheme will cost no end--and fail.
  No sheep who ever twitched a tail
  So foolish is--I would not rail!--
            As such a 'herd.'
  I'd 'modest operations' hail,
            But yours?--absurd!

  "Better reform, relax, extend
  The old provisions. I commend
  Plenty of food, and care no end,
            For all poor sheep;
  But flocks would not get poor, my friend,
            Had they good keep!"

  Fancy how JOE would cock a nose
  At "Cockney JOHN," as certain foes
  Called JOSEPH's rival. Words like those
            Part Shepherd swains.
  Sad when crook-wielders meet as foes
            On pastoral plains!

  Such two! O, do I live to see
  Such famous pastors disagree,
  Calling each other--woe is me!--
            Bad names by turns?
  Shall we not say in diction free
            With BOBBIE BURNS?

  "O! a' ye flocks, owre a' the hills
  By mosses, meadows, moors and fells.
  Come join your counsels and your skills
            To cowe the lairds.
  And get the brutes the power themsels
            To choose their herds!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"AND A GOOD JUDGE, TOO!"

  There is a good Justice named GRANTHAM,
  Who tells lawyers truths that should haunt 'em.
      There are seeds of reform
      In his speech, wise as warm,
  And long may he flourish--to plant 'em!

       *       *       *       *       *

STRANGE BUT TRUE.--When does a Husband find his Wife out? When he finds her at home and she
doesn't expect him.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. XXVI.

    SCENE--On the Lagoons. CULCHARD and PODBURY's gondola is
    nearing Venice. The apricot-tinted diaper on the façade of
    the Ducal Palace is already distinguishable, and behind its
    battlements the pearl-grey summits of the domes of St. Mark's
    shimmer in the warm air. CULCHARD and PODBURY have hardly
    exchanged a sentence as yet. The former has just left off
    lugubriously whistling as much as he can remember of "Che
    faro," the latter is still humming "The Dead March in Saul,"
    although in a livelier manner than at first.

Culch. Well, my dear PODBURY, our--er--expedition has turned out rather disastrously!

Podb. (suspending the Dead March, chokily). Not much mistake about that--but there, it's no
good talking about it. Jolly that brown and yellow sail looks on the fruit-barge there. See?

Culch. (sardonically). Isn't it a little late in the day to be cultivating an eye for colour?
I was about to say that those two girls have treated us infamously. I say deliberately, my
dear PODBURY, infamously!

Podb. Now drop it, CULCHARD, do you hear? I won't hear a word against either of them. It serves
us jolly well right for not knowing our own minds better--though I no more dreamed that old
BOB would--Oh, hang it, I can't talk about it yet!

Culch. That's childishness, my dear fellow; you ought to talk about it--it will do you good.
And really, I'm not at all sure, after all, that we have not both of us had a fortunate escape.
One is very apt to--er--overrate the fascinations of persons one meets abroad. Now, neither
of those two was quite--

Podb. (desperately). Take care! I swear I'll pitch you out of this gondola, unless you stop
that jabber!

Culch. (with wounded dignity). I am willing to make great allowances for your state of mind,
PODBURY, but such an expression as--as jabber, applied to my--er--well-meant attempts at consolation,
and just as I was about to propose an arrangement--really, it's too much! The moment we reach
the hotel, I will relieve you from any further infliction from (bitterly) what you are pleased
to call my "jabber!"

Podb. (sulkily). Very well--'m sure I don't care! (To himself.) Even old CULCHARD won't have
anything to do with me now! I must have somebody to talk to--or I shall go off my head! (Aloud).
I say, old chap! (No answer.) Look here--it's bad enough as it is without our having a row!
Never mind anything I said.

Culch. I do mind--I must. I am not accustomed to hear myself called a--a jabberer!

Podb. I didn't call you a jabberer--I only said you talked jabber. I--I hardly know what I
do say, when I'm like this. And I'm deuced sorry I spoke--there!

Culch. (relaxing). Well, do you withdraw jabber?

Podb. Certainly, old chap. I like you to talk, only not--not against Her, you know! What were
you going to propose?

Culch. Well, my idea was this. My leave is practically unlimited--at least, without vanity,
I think I may say that my Chief sufficiently appreciates my services not to make a fuss about
a few extra days. So I thought I'd just run down to Florence and Naples, and perhaps catch
a P. & O. at Brindisi. I suppose you're not tied to time in any way?

Podb. (dolefully). Free as a bird! If the Governor had wanted me back in the City, he'd have
let me know it. Well?

Culch. Well, if you like to come with me, I--I shall be very pleased to have your company.

Podb. (considering). I don't care if I do--it may cheer me up a bit. Florence, eh?--and Naples?
I shouldn't mind a look at Florence. Or Rome. How about Rome, now?

Culch. (to himself). Was I wise to expose myself to this sort of thing again? I'm almost sorry
I-- (Aloud.) My dear fellow, if we are to travel together in any sort of comfort, you must
leave all details to me. And there's one thing I do insist on. In future we must keep to our
original resolution--not to be drawn into any chance acquaintanceship. I don't want to reproach
you, but if, when we were first at Brussels, you had not allowed yourself to get so intimate
with the TROTTERS, all this would never--

Podb. (exasperated). There you go again! I can't stand being jawed at, CULCHARD, and I won't!

Culch. I am no more conscious of "jawing" than "jabbering," and if that is how I am to be spoken
to--!

Podb. I know. Look here, it's no use. You must go to Florence by yourself. I simply don't feel
up to it, and that's the truth. I shall just potter about here, till--till they go.

Culch. As you choose. I gave you the opportunity--out of kindness. If you prefer to make yourself
ridiculous by hanging about here, it's no concern of mine. I daresay I shall enjoy Florence
at least as well by myself.

    [He sulks until they arrive at the Hotel Dandolo, where they
    are received on the steps by the Porter.

Porter. Goot afternoon, Schendlemen. You have a bleasant dimes at Torcello, yes? Ach! you haf
gif your gondoliers vifdeen franc? Zey schvindle you, oal ze gondoliers alvays schvindles eferypody,
yes! Zere is som ledders for you. I vetch zem. [He bustles away.

Mr. Bellerby (suddenly emerging from a recess in the entrance, as he recognises CULCHARD).
Why bless me, there's a face I know! Met at Lugano, didn't we? To be sure--very pleasant chat
we had too! So you're at Venice, eh? I know every stone of it by heart, as I needn't say. The
first time I was ever at Venice--

Culch. (taking a bulky envelope from the Porter). Just so--how are you? Er--will you excuse me?

    [He opens the envelope and finds a blue official-looking
    enclosure, which he reads with a gradually lengthening
    countenance.

Mr. B. (as CULCHARD thrusts the letter angrily into his pocket). You're new to Venice, I think?
Well, just let me give you a word of advice. Now you are here--you make them give you some
tunny. Insist on it, Sir. Why, when I was here first--

Culch. (impatiently). I know. I mean, you told me that before. And I have tasted tunny.

Mr. B. Ha! well, what did you think of it? Delicious, eh?

Culch. (forgetting all his manners). Beastly, Sir, beastly! [Leaves the scandalised Mr. B.
abruptly, and rushes off to get a telegram form at the bureau.

Mr. Crawley Strutt (pouncing on PODBURY in the hall, as he finishes the perusal of his letter).
Excuse me--but surely I have the honour of addressing Lord GEORGE GUMBLETON? You may perhaps
just recollect, my Lord--?

Podb. (blankly). Think you've made a mistake, really.

Mr. C.S. Is it possible! I have come across so many people while I've been away that--but surely
we have met somewhere? Why, of course, Sir JOHN JUBBER! you must pardon me, SIR JOHN--

Podb. (recognizing him). My name's PODBURY--plain PODBURY, but you're quite right. You have
met me--and you've met my bootmaker too. "Lord UPPERSOLE," eh? That's where the mistake came in!

Mr. C.S. (with hauteur). I think not, Sir; I have no recollection of the circumstance. I see
now your face is quite unfamiliar to me.

    [He moves away; PODBURY gets a telegram form and sits down
    at a table in the hall opposite CULCHARD.

Culch. (reading over his telegram). "Yours just received. Am returning immediately."

Podb. (do., do.). "Letter to hand. No end sorry. Start at once." (Seeing CULCHARD.) Wiring
to Florence for room, eh?

Culch. Er--no. The fact is, I've just heard from my Chief--a--a most intemperate communication,
insisting on my instant return to my duties! I shall have to humour him, I suppose, and leave
at once.

Podb. So shall I. No end of a shirty letter from the Governor. Wants to know how much longer
I expect him to be tied to the office. Old humbug, when he only turns up twice a week for a
couple of hours!

The Porter. Peg your bardons, Schendlemen, but if you haf qvide done vid ze schtamps on your
ledders, I gollect bostage schtamps, yes.

