Just when cookery and household affairs became a part of the newspaper's province, I do not
know, nor is it my purpose to give its history. My earliest recollection of anything in this
line is connected with Hearth and Home, an illustrated paper, the forerunner of the many household
periodicals of to-day. A leading feature was "Mrs. Hunnibee's Diary," furnished by Mrs. Lyman,
afterward on the staff of the New York Tribune. Her work was a worthy model for us to follow.
Let us look at the work as it is, and as it ought to be. Naturally, therefore, the agricultural
papers were the first to give space to cookery, and have ever been generous in that way.

Newspaper cookery is not an inappropriate phrase, since too often the "Home Column" in half
our papers is simply a rehash of what has appeared in the other papers of the country. The
results of warming over in the kitchen are very diverse, and they are equally so in newspaper
cookery; a rechauffé may be very sloppy or very dry, and give no hint of its original components,
when it should be a savory combination, the ingredients of which have suffered no loss of flavor.

This does not include the class of articles which are made by careful study of books of reference
and form a new setting for fragmentary information, such as is often lost if not rearranged;
but what can be said in favor of the sort of work where a standard recipe forms the basis for
a wishy-washy story?

Another variety of newspaper cookery to be avoided is the reporting of demonstration lectures
by those who know nothing of the subject and have no conception of the lecturer's methods,
or by those having a superficial knowledge who attempt to interlard their own opinions throughout
the report.

Reporters having little or no knowledge of the literature of the kitchen are apt to make rash
claims for their favorite lecturers or for themselves. In a recent paper an evident neophyte--in
cookery at least--claims to set right in a new and original way the curdling of a mayonnaise
dressing. She claims that none of the directions given in the cook-books tell what should be
done if it goes wrong, yet in at least two standard works the whole thing is fully explained.

There are undoubtedly many recipes which belong to the whole world, and have been in use for
generations, yet some teachers may claim original methods of combining these ingredients. Has
a reporter any right to make such ideas appear as her own, without due credit to the authors?
Whether this sort of work is done in newspapers, or appears in book form, or whether it is
in direct violation of copyright laws or not, it is at least discourteous. Poems are sometimes
stolen, but the literature of the kitchen oftener suffers.

In these days of specialties, when one man devotes himself to politics, another to finance,
or music, or art, it would not seem that a woman, because she is a woman, is therefore fitted
to care for the household department of a paper; yet this is usually the first work given into
her hands. Probably there are many teachers of cookery who could not write a catchy newspaper
article, but it may be questioned whether such writing is desirable upon this subject.

The time is coming when the cooking-school graduate will be called for to teach this art and
science through the columns of the newspaper, as well as in the schoolroom.

The religious papers choose graduates of the theological seminaries for their editors, and
medical journalism is conducted by physicians. If a sporting editor is essential, why should
not special training be required for the cooking department?

Under present conditions, the best teachers can afford to do little newspaper work; a demonstration
requires little more time and effort than the preparation of a newspaper column, and the compensation
is double or quadruple, and is promptly paid.

Some of the advertising agents of patent medicines have been wiser in their generation than
the newspaper men, and from the days of Mrs. ----'s Soothing Syrup until now their cook-books
have been passports for their medicines into many a home, not that a call for medicine was
the natural result of the use of these recipes, but that the name of the medicine became a
household word through the use of the cookbook, and hence was the first thought when any panacea
was required. Such good prices have been paid by manufacturers that they have been able to
obtain the best writers, and the books distributed by various salves, sarsaparillas, meat choppers,
baking powders, etc., contain many valuable recipes and suggestions. As a whole, they are far
safer guides than the average newspaper column of recipes.

Furnished by untrained hands, the newspaper recipe has become a synonym for something utterly
unreliable, and, therefore, a byword among those so old-fashioned as to believe that a woman
who holds a pen is, of course, a poor housekeeper.

True, much of the blame for the uncertainty of the newspaper recipe must be laid at the door
of the typesetter and proof-reader--who else would make a demonstrator whose programme included
a "Frozen Rice Pudding" responsible for a "Dozen Nice Puddings" in a single lecture.

Often the column headed "Dainty Dishes," "Hints for the Cuisine," etc., appears to be made
up from recipes taken at random from the clippings of the year before--so we have strawberry
shortcake and asparagus omelet in October, cauliflower in August, and blueberries in December.
Without a hint concerning the proper method of combining the ingredients, a string of recipes
are worthless, and mean as little as a column from the dictionary.

So accustomed has the public vision become to this artificial, improbable, housekeeping that
it fails to recognize veritable facts and pronounces them impossible.

Food is a subject which demands the careful consideration of every human being daily, and therefore
claims ample space in the newspapers. The wise man of the Old Testament has said: "All the
labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled."

We are not all interested in the success of either political party, nor are we all thirsty
for items of society gossip, nor are the details of every murder or railroad accident more
important than our daily bread.

Our physical natures and our food are not so ignoble as some would have us think. We need only
look at the thousand allusions to food in classic writings to realize that it is our attitude
toward an object, not the thing itself, which makes it common and unclean.

Does it not seem strange that the art of cookery, which first distinguished man from beasts,
has been so underrated and neglected?

Many a newspaper woman has found a safety-valve in doing her housekeeping with her own hands,
the needed reaction after prolonged mental effort, and by the divine law of compensation has
thus worked out with her hands something of which the brain alone was not capable. Michelet
says that "A man always clears his head by doing something with his hands." Can we not all
bear testimony that some of our brightest ideas have come when our hands were busy with rolling-pin
or dish-pan?

The newspaper woman is expected to act as leader in many directions. Though not always competent
to do special newspaper cookery in the best way, she may help mould public opinion in the right
way on the great questions of temperance, domestic economy, coöperative housekeeping, and,
above all, help to change the prevailing belief that work with the hands is degrading.

The great social questions of the day are largely dependent upon the food supply. Show the
working men and women how to obtain attractive, palatable, and nourishing food at less cost
than that which is unsatisfying, and their wages will really be doubled.

The temperance question is so closely connected with the food supply that it is astonishing
that more attention has not been given to this side of it. We often ascribe the intemperance
of the poor man to poor food; but are not the excesses of the rich also due to food, poor because
it is too highly seasoned and improperly cooked?

Rev. T. De Witt Talmage has said: "The kitchen is the most important end of the household.
If that goes wrong, the whole establishment is wrong. It decides the health of the household,
and health settles almost everything."

May we all live to see the day when every town shall have a food experiment station, which
shall do for the cook and the kitchen what the agricultural stations do for the farmer and
farm. The cooking schools are a step in the right direction, but their work should be broadened
and put upon a more scientific basis.

Such an experimental kitchen should analyze and test food products as to best methods of preparation;
it should try new utensils; it should fit young women for their own home life. Perhaps something
in this line will grow out of the New England Kitchen, so successfully started in Boston.

To bring about such a state of things, public opinion must be educated in every direction,
through the home, school, and newspapers, as well as by individual effort.

The newspaper's cooking, like its editorials, must not be so narrow and partisan but that it
may command the respect of those who do not wholly agree with it.

We must strive to separate the essentials from the non-essentials in our housekeeping; to recognize
the various conditions of life among those to whom we are writing.

We do not want to copy the food fashions of any other land in a servile manner; no French,
Italian, or English teacher can best instruct us in methods of cooking.

But, following our national motto, let us select the best from all, and unite these principles
to develop an American system of cooking that shall produce a race so well proportioned physically
that their mental and moral natures cannot fail to be well balanced.

  Anna Barrows.

  BOSTON, Mass.

DO THE BEST WRITERS WRITE?

A few years ago my attention was attracted by an article in one of the leading magazines. It
was an article of more than ordinary merit, possessing that rarity, even then, a plot dramatically
conceived and executed. The scene was laid in a part of the world the truthful picturing of
which showed the writer to be a person who had travelled much and observed keenly; the diction
was "English pure and undefiled." There was but one drawback, that the author's name was withheld,
and I was obliged to lay my offering of approval and admiration at an unknown shrine.

Lately, in conversation with a man who forms one of the great majority of those who gain a
moderate competence in business life, his days spent in the wearisome routine of mercantile
life, his nights in painful figurings about that delusive "deal" which is to settle satisfactorily
all questions of financial perplexity, our talk turned on books, literary celebrities, the
chat of the profession of letters. My friend suddenly became communicative and reminiscent--rare
expressions in him.

"A few years ago," he said. "I, too, had the literary craze. I wrote a little--stray articles,
stories, poems, the usual repertoire."

I wondered what kind of material this suave, cynical, reserved man could have produced--in
other words, what was his undercurrent. I interrogated. To my surprise and consternation I
had found at last the author of my pedestal-placed masterpiece.

"But why," I said, "did you not keep on; why hide, deface, forget, a talent like yours?"

"Allowing, for the sake of argument," he answered, "that I possessed talent to the degree you
imply, I should still have been forced to my present attitude. I am not alone in this. I am
convinced that the best writers (of course, with notable exceptions) are the people who never
write, who could bring to the field varied experience, the results of travel, thought, and
cultivation, but who are driven away by the knowledge that the wolf will have them if they
attempt it. Notwithstanding the fact that there has never been a time when literature has been
produced so prolifically, a man can only make a moderate competence, and that after years of
weary uncertainty and a constant strain on the waiting nerves, and, even at the end, he gets
but a meagre reward: lots of newspaper notoriety and a scanty bank account. I am not complaining;
I looked the facts squarely in the face, and chose what I regarded as the only sensible solution.
I could not conscientiously use literature as a safety-valve or time-passer, giving to the
world the result of tired brain and over-wrought nerves; consequently, I sacrificed inclination
to necessity, and have left my muse alone. However,"--and he was once more the worldling,--"I
have reserved to myself the right to criticise; and when I see a young man of talent enter
the field of letters, I conclude he is like a man about to marry, either a great hero or a
great fool."

  Gertrude F. Lynch.

  NEW YORK, N. Y.

FASHIONS IN LITERATURE.

A veteran novel reader has learned to detect a plot in its early stages; to see from afar the
marriage, the forgery, the hidden will; to him (or should I rather say to her?) the true inwardness
of the different characters is manifest; no disguise, no blandishments, avail to conceal from
his piercing vision the true heir, the disguised villain, the timid lover.

It has been stated by careful students that the original stories in the world number but two
hundred and fifty; but we have not forgotten our arithmetic, and we have learned chess, so
we know something of the manifold combinations of numbers, and we take courage.

But the veteran novel reader finds little variety in incident and machinery; there are fashions
in fiction as in everything else, and the prevailing "style" of the time is followed apparently
without question.

The heroines of an earlier generation differed from those of the present. They were slender
creatures, living on delicate fare, and fainting at every or no provocation. When these lovely
beings died it was usually of a broken heart, developing into consumption. They were depicted
clad in white and holding flowers, reclining at open windows, regardless of draughts, and they
lectured heart-broken friends and faithless lovers with a command of language and strength
of lung rare in every-day life. For bringing about some needed explanation sprained ankles
have played a conspicuous part, and a strong-armed hero or stalwart rival was ready to carry
the fair sufferer

  "Over hill, over dale,
   Through bush, through briar,"

to some place of shelter, where friends and reader alike watched the progress of recovery.
Runaway horses have been vastly useful in bringing matters to a crisis, and in New England
stories a fierce bull is always ready to threaten the life of the heroine.

These casualties were especially the lot of the heroines, but fevers were open to all without
distinction of "sex, race, or color." In the wanderings of delirium the cleverly-disguised
villain betrayed his dark designs--the self-distrusting lover sighed his woes into the sympathetic
ear of the damsel of whom in his "normal state" he had said--

  "'Twere all as one
   That I should love some bright particular star
   And seek to wed it."

With the modern dissemination of knowledge and of sanitary science, the former ailments have
become less fashionable; there has been a run of diphtheria, and heart complaints are slaying
their thousands.

Athletics are restricted to no sex,--the hero is less frequently called to rescue his beloved
from a watery grave. Indeed, her skill may be superior to his,--witness Armorel, one of the
fairest of modern creations.

Now and then a leader has appeared,--an inventor,--but the new style is imitated with no respect
for patent right. Jane Eyre was new; here was a heroine with neither wealth nor beauty, and
forthwith appeared a long train of ugly girls, and dark, middle-aged men promising henceforth
"to forswear sack and live cleanly," yet in confidential moments giving glimpses of a past
which caused all virtuous folks to shiver.

We have now the "novel of every-day life," wherein we are called to "assist" at commonplace
incidents; to listen to inane talk, where adverbs, liberally bestowed, help our comprehension,
as we are told that certain things were "coarsely," "suggestively," "tentatively," said. It
is, indeed, "reading made easy."

Stuart Mill, lamenting the changes in the tendency of modern fiction, wrote: "For the first
time perhaps in history, the youth of both sexes of the educated classes are universally growing
up unromantic. What will come in mature age from such a youth the world has not yet had time
to see."

These words were written half a century ago, the generation referred to has reached "mature
age," and the world has read its novels.

  Pamela McArthur Cole.

  EAST BRIDGEWATER, Mass.

SNEAK REPORTING.

I do not beg the reader's pardon for the apparent egotism of this article, for, though I use
the first person throughout, I feel that I do so as the spokesman of a large (if not an important)
class.

To begin at the beginning, I have always believed that in time I could succeed as a journalist,
if I could but secure a position on a live newspaper, where I could gain practical knowledge.
In pursuance of this idea, I haunted the doors of an afternoon paper, and finally, by dint
of perseverance, fairly worried the city editor into giving me an assignment.

Naturally, a beginner was not given an important task, but it proved to be a very embarrassing
one. I was required, in the line of my duty, to stick my impertinent nose into another man's
business, and elicit from him facts that he did not want published. I did not feel the least
curiosity about the matter, and, I am sure, looked as guilty as if I had been a dog engaged
in the sheep-stealing industry, and had been caught with the wool in my teeth. I approached
him with inward fear and trembling, and requested information on a subject in connection with
which he had been held up before the public in an unenviable light. He refused to talk, and
when I persisted, as per orders, told me to go to the residence of a personage whom I do not
like to hear mentioned, except by authority and by gentlemen who have the legal right to wear
a handle to their names.

I did not resent this as ordinarily I should have done. I was so humbled and ashamed by my
consciousness of the impudence of my errand, that if he had pulled my nose, I am sure I should
have commended the spirit with which he did it.

It was in vain I represented to him that to withhold this matter of public interest was to
show an unpardonable disregard of the rights of others, which, as contrary to public policy,
could easily be construed into an act of overt disloyalty. He did not seem to be interested
in the rights of others, and entirely refused to see the matter in the proper light. He was
not a rational man. When I attempted to argue the case with him, he became violent, and roared
at me until, I am sure, had the bulls of Bashan heard him, they would have been tempted to
"hide their diminished heads." I decided that discretion was the better part of valor, and
left him to fight it out alone. I returned to the office, rendered an account of the manner
in which I had failed, and was the recipient of a scathing rebuke from the city editor. It
was in vain I tried to get angry. Even to myself I could not simulate proper indignation, so
thoroughly had the starch been taken out of me by my seance with an excusably irritated man,
knowing the while that I was trespassing on the bounds of courtesy.

That experience was enough for me. While I might become a successful reporter, in doing so
I fear I should lose that regard for the rights of others, the petty conscience of every-day
life, that is conspicuously absent in so many of the men we meet.

While this incident has not altered my liking for newspaper work, it has very materially modified
my ideas concerning certain branches of it. From the reporter's desk to the editor's chair
is a natural and easy transition; and the outsider, unless he possesses the genius of George
Kennan and his companions, must go through this stage of preliminary training. Those of us
who have no influence, no startling genius, and a decided dislike to becoming inquisitive nuisances
feel that we are overweighted in the journalistic handicap.

What course shall we pursue, that what few merits we possess shall not be overshadowed by the
lack of one quality, which may be a useful one to the reporter, but is usually known and avoided
in the ordinary man under the vulgar name of "gall"?

  Herbert Corey.

  CINCINNATI, Ohio.

A PLEA FOR THE NOM DE PLUME.

Once upon a time there lived a good little girl whom everybody loved. She had six aunts, four
uncles, and twenty-seven cousins, besides a brother and two sisters. All these relatives, of
course, especially loved her, for that was only natural. And they were all very glad, indeed,
to help her in every way possible.

She was a bright little thing as well as good, and by and by she thought she would see whether
any of the papers and magazines cared to know of the things she thought, and she wrote a morsel
of an article and timidly sent it off.

But before she sent it to the editor she read it to her sisters, each of whom had some slight
correction to make; and she showed it to Aunt Emma, who was quite of a literary turn of mind,
and Aunt Emma read it to her daughter Mabel, who had just left college.

These ladies so marked up the carefully written manuscript that the good little girl had to
copy it all before it was fit to be sent.

After it had been gone eight days the article was returned. This made the little girl very
sad, and she wept.

The other five aunts, and the uncles, and all the cousins were by this time interested, and
they comforted her with many words, and censured her with a great many more, and gave her a
great deal of good advice. But the little girl finally got so confused by the many conflicting
opinions offered that she hardly knew what to do or say. One moment she would think she would
write this and another that, and some of the time she declared that she would never write another
line at all.

But one day a very pretty idea came into her mind all at once, and she did think it too sweet
to be lost. So she wrote it down just as it came to her, and sent it away, and never told a
soul a word about it.

By and by it was printed, and how happy the little girl was! She told nobody but her parents
and her sisters this time, but all her friends saw her name in the paper, and they came running
to her to talk about it.

"I saw your name in the paper," said Cousin Ada.

"Did you?" said the good little girl, pleasantly.

"Yes; an' Bert an' I know who you meant by 'The Old Bad Man.'"

"But I didn't mean anybody," explained she; "that was only a little story."

"Oh, we know you did. Mamma says it isn't a nice story at all, an' Mabelle says, 'Ugh!'"

It was no wonder that the little girl felt hurt at these words.