Of Thackeray's private relations I would speak with a cautious reverence. An author's heart
is a sanctuary into which, except so far as he voluntarily reveals it, the public has no right
to enter. The shadow of a domestic affliction which darkened all his life seemed only to have
increased his paternal care and tenderness. To his fond solicitude for his daughters we owe
a part of the writings wherewith he has enriched our literature. While in America, he often
said to me that his chief desire was to secure a certain sum for them, and I shall never forget
the joyous satisfaction with which he afterwards informed me, in London, that the work was
done. "Now," he said, "the dear girls are provided for. The great anxiety is taken from my
life, and I can breathe freely for the little time that is left me to be with them." I knew
that he had denied himself many "luxuries" (as he called them) to accomplish this object. For
six years after he had redeemed the losses of a reckless youthful expenditure, he was allowed
to live and to employ an income, princely for an author, in the gratification of tastes which
had been so long repressed.

He thereupon commenced building a new house, after his own designs. It was of red brick, in
the style of Queen Anne's time, but the internal arrangement was rather American than English.
It was so much admired, that, although the cost much exceeded his estimate, he could have sold
it for an advance of a thousand pounds. To me the most interesting feature was the library,
which occupied the northern end of the first floor, with a triple window opening toward the
street, and another upon a warm little garden-plot shut in by high walls.

"Here," he said to me, when I saw him for the last time, "here I am going to write my greatest
work,--a History of the Reign of Queen Anne. There are my materials,"--pointing to a collection
of volumes in various bindings which occupied a separate place on the shelves.

"When shall you begin it?" I asked.

"Probably as soon as I am done with 'Philip,'" was his answer; "but I am not sure. I may have
to write another novel first. But the History will mature all the better for the delay. I want
to absorb the authorities gradually, so that, when I come to write, I shall be filled with
the subject, and can sit down to a continuous narrative, without jumping up every moment to
consult somebody. The History has been a pet idea of mine for years past. I am slowly working
up to the level of it, and know that when I once begin I shall do it well."

It is not likely that any part of this history was ever written. What it might have been we
can only regretfully conjecture: it has perished with the uncompleted novel, and all the other
dreams of that principle of the creative intellect which the world calls Ambition, but which
the artist recognizes as Conscience.

That hour of the sunny May-day returns to memory as I write. The quiet of the library, a little
withdrawn from the ceaseless roar of London; the soft grass of the bit of garden, moist from
a recent shower, seen through the open window; the smoke-strained sunshine, stealing gently
along the wall; and before me the square, massive head, the prematurely gray hair, the large,
clear, sad eyes, the frank, winning mouth, with its smile of boyish sweetness, of the man whom
I honored as a master, while he gave me the right to love him as a friend. I was to leave the
next day for a temporary home on the Continent, and he was planning how he could visit me,
with his daughters. The proper season, the time, and the expense were carefully calculated:
he described the visit in advance, with a gay, excursive fancy; and his last words, as he gave
me the warm, strong hand I was never again to press, were, "Auf wiedersehen!"

What little I have ventured to relate gives but a fragmentary image of the man whom I knew.
I cannot describe him as the faithful son, the tender father, the true friend, the man of large
humanity and lofty honesty he really was, without stepping too far within the sacred circle
of his domestic life. To me, there was no inconsistency in his nature. Where the careless reader
may see only the cynic and the relentless satirist, I recognize his unquenchable scorn of human
meanness and duplicity,--the impatient wrath of a soul too frequently disappointed in its search
for good. I have heard him lash the faults of others with an indignant sorrow which brought
the tears to his eyes. For this reason he could not bear that ignorant homage should be given
to men really unworthy of it. He said to me, once, speaking of a critic who blamed the scarcity
of noble and lovable character in his novels,--"Other men can do that. I know what I can do
best; and if I do good, it must be in my own way."

The fate which took him from us was one which he had anticipated. He often said that his time
was short, that he could not certainly reckon on many more years of life, and that his end
would probably be sudden. He once spoke of Irving's death as fortunate in its character. The
subject was evidently familiar to his thoughts, and his voice had always a tone of solemn resignation
which told that he had conquered its bitterness.

THE PENINSULAR CAMPAIGN.

It has been said that "the history of war is a magnificent lie," and from what we know in our
times, particularly of the history of the Mexican War and of the present Rebellion, if the
despatches from the battle-fields are to be received as history, we are inclined to believe
the saying is true; and it is natural that it should be so. A general writes his despatches
under the highest mental excitement. His troops have won a great victory, or sustained a crushing
defeat; in either event, his mind is riveted to the transactions that have led to the result;
in the one case, his ambition will prompt him to aspire to a name in history; in the other,
he will try to save himself from disgrace. He describes his battles; he gives an account of
his marches and counter-marches, of the hardships he has endured, the disappointments he has
experienced, and the difficulties he has had to overcome. The principal events may be truthfully
narrated; but his hopes of rising a hero from the field of victory, or of appearing a martyr
from one of defeat, will mould his narrative to his wishes.

If it be frequently the misfortune of our generals, in writing their reports, not to content
themselves with the materials at hand, but to draw on their imaginations, not for gross falsehoods,
but for that coloring which, diffused through their despatches, makes the narrative affecting,
while it leaves us in doubt where to draw the line between fiction and fact, it is not always
so, particularly when their despatches are not written amidst the excitement of the battle-field,
but are deferred until the events which they describe have passed into history.

Such, we may suppose, to be the case in respect to the Reports of Brigadier-Generals Barnard
and Barry on the Engineer and Artillery Operations of the Army of the Potomac. Written, as
these Reports were, after the organization of that army had been completed and the Peninsular
campaign had terminated, by men who, though playing an important part in its organization and
throughout this its first campaign, yet never aspired to be its heroes, we may reasonably hope,
that, if they have not told the "whole truth," they have told us "nothing but the truth."

The points of particular interest in these Reports, so far as relates to organization, are
the inauguration of a great system of field-fortifications for the defence of the national
capital, and the preparation of engineer-equipments, particularly bridge-equipage for crossing
rivers. These are only sketched, but the outline is drawn by an artist who is master of the
subject. The professional engineer, when he examines the immense fortifications of Washington
and sees their skilful construction, can appreciate the labor and thought which must have been
bestowed on them. He alone could complete the picture. To appreciate these works, they must
be seen. No field-works on so extensive a scale have been undertaken in modern times. The nearest
approach to them were the lines of Torres Vedras, in Portugal, constructed by the British army
in 1809-10; but the works constructed by General Barnard for the defence of Washington are
larger, more numerous, more carefully built, and much more heavily armed than were those justly
celebrated lines of Wellington.

And it should not be forgotten, that, after the Battle of Bull Run, we were thrown on the defensive,
and the fortifications of our capital were called for in a hurry. There were no models, in
this country, from which to copy,--and few, if any, in Europe. Luckily, however, the art of
fortification is not imitative; it is based on scientific principles; and we found in General
Barnard and his assistants the science to comprehend the problem before them, and the experience
and skill to grasp its solution.

Only the citizens of Washington and those who happened to be there after the two disastrous
defeats at Bull Run can appreciate the value of these fortifications. They have twice saved
the capital,--perhaps the nation; yet forts are passive,--they never speak, unless assailed.
But let Washington be attacked by a powerful army and successfully defended, and they would
proclaim General Barnard one of the heroes of the war.

As has already been said, the engineer-equipage is only sketched; but enough is said to show
its value. Speaking of the bridges, General Barnard says,--"They were used by the Quartermaster's
department in discharging transports, were precisely what was needed for the disembarkation
of General Franklin's division, constituted a portion of the numerous bridges that were built
over Wormley Creek during the siege of Yorktown, and were of the highest use in the Chickahominy;
while over the Lower Chickahominy, some seventy-five thousand men, some three hundred pieces
of artillery, and the enormous baggage-trains of the army, passed over a bridge of the extraordinary
length of nearly six hundred and fifty yards,--a feat scarcely surpassed in military history."
Pontoons, like forts, cannot talk; but every soldier of the Army of the Potomac knows that
these same bridges, which were prepared when that army was first organized, have since carried
it in safety four times over the Rappahannock, twice at the Battle of Fredericksburg and twice
again at the Battle of Chancellorsville, and three times over the Upper Potomac, once after
the Battle of Antietam, and again both before and after the Battle of Gettysburg.

Of the Peninsular campaign General Barnard does not profess to give a history. He mentions
only the operations which came under his supervision as the Chief Engineer of the Army of the
Potomac. The siege of Yorktown was a matter of engineering skill. General Barnard gives us
his report to General Totten, the Chief Engineer of the Army, on the engineering operations
of the siege,--also his journal, showing the progress of the siege from day to day. These,
with the maps, convey a very clear idea of the place to be taken, and the way it was to have
been reduced, had the enemy continued his defence until our batteries were opened; but they
do not convey to the mind of any except the professional engineer the magnitude of the works
which were constructed. General Barnard says that fifteen batteries and four redoubts were
built during the siege, and he gives the armament of each battery. On comparing this armament
with that used in other sieges, we find the amount of metal ready to be hurled on Yorktown
when the enemy evacuated that place second only to that of the Allies at Sebastopol, the greatest
siege of modern times.

But these batteries, with a single exception, never spoke. Like their predecessors around Washington,
they conquered by their mere presence. After all the skill and labor that had been bestowed
on their construction, the enemy evacuated Yorktown just as our batteries were about to open.
He was at our mercy. General Barnard says that "the enemy's position had become untenable,--that
he could not have endured our fire for six hours." We can readily understand how mortifying
it must have been to the Commanding General, and particularly to the officers of engineers
and artillery who had planned, built, and armed these siege-works, to hear that the enemy had
evacuated his fortifications just at the moment when we were prepared to drive him from them
by force; and we can appreciate the regrets of General Barnard, when he says, in reviewing
the campaign, and pointing out the mistakes that had been committed, that "we should have opened
our batteries on the place as fast as they were completed. The effect on the troops would have
been inspiring. It would have lightened the siege and shortened our labors; and, besides, we
would have had the credit of driving the enemy from Yorktown by force of arms; whereas, as
it was, we only induced him to evacuate for prudential considerations." And General Barry says,
in his report of the artillery operations at the siege,--"It will always be a source of great
professional disappointment to me, that the enemy, by his premature and hasty abandonment of
his defensive line, deprived the artillery of the Army of the Potomac of the opportunity of
exhibiting the superior power and efficiency of the unusually heavy metal used in this siege,
and of reaping the honor and just reward of their unceasing labors, day and night, for nearly
one month."

The next serious obstacle to be overcome, after the siege of Yorktown, was the passage of the
Chickahominy. Here, says General Barnard, "if possible, the responsibility and labor of the
engineer officers were increased." The difficulties of that river, considered as a military
obstacle, are given in a few touches; but in the sketch of the opposing heights, and of the
intermediate valley, filled up with the stream, the heavily timbered swamp, and the overflowed
bottom-lands, we have the Chickahominy brought before us so vividly that we can almost feel
the difficulty of crossing it. Well may General Barnard say that "it was one of the most formidable
obstacles that could be opposed to the advance of an army,--an obstacle to which an ordinary
river, though it be of considerable magnitude, is comparatively slight."

The labors of the engineers in bridging this formidable swamp are detailed with considerable
minuteness. Ten bridges, of different characters, were constructed, though some of them were
never used, because the enemy held the approaches on his side of the river.

We are glad that General Barnard has elaborated this part of his Report. There is a melancholy
interest attaching to the Chickahominy. To it, and to the events connected with it, history
will refer the defeat of General McClellan's magnificent army, and the failure of the Peninsular
campaign. And what a lesson is here to be learned! The fate of the contending armies was suspended
in a balance. The hour when a particular bridge was to be completed, or rendered impassable
by the rising floods, was to turn the scales!

That mistakes were committed on the Chickahominy the country is prepared to believe. Our army
was placed astride of that stream, and in this situation we fought two battles, each time with
only a part of our force; thus violating, not only the maxims of war, but the plainest principles
of common sense.

The Battle of Fair Oaks began on the thirty-first of May. At that time our army was divided
by the Chickahominy. Of the five corps constituting the Army of the Potomac, two were on its
right bank, or on the side nearest to Richmond, while the other three were on the left bank.
There had been heavy rains, the river was rising, and the swamps and bottom-lands were fast
becoming impassable. None of the upper bridges had yet been built. We had then only Bottom's
Bridge, the railroad-bridge, and the two bridges built by General Sumner some miles higher
up the river. Bottom's Bridge and the railroad-bridge were too distant to be of any service
in an emergency such as a battle demands. At the time of the enemy's attack, which was sudden
and unexpected, completely overwhelming General Casey's division, our sole reliance to reinforce
the left wing was by Sumner's corps, and over his two bridges. It happened to be the fortune
of the writer to see "Sumner's upper bridge,"--the only one then passable,--at the moment the
head of General Sumner's column reached it. The possibility of crossing was doubted by all
present, including General Sumner himself.

The bridge was of rough logs, and mostly afloat, held together and kept from drifting off by
the stumps of trees to which it was fastened; the portion over the thread of the stream being
suspended from the trunks of large trees, which had been felled across it, by ropes which a
single blow with a hatchet would have severed. On this bridge and on these ropes hung the fate
of the day at Fair Oaks, and, probably, the fate of the Army of the Potomac too; for, if Sumner
had not crossed in time to check the movement of the enemy down the river, the corps of Heintzelman
and Keyes would have been taken in flank, and it is fair to suppose that they must have been
driven into an impassable river, or captured.

But Sumner crossed, and saved the day. Forever honored be his name!

As the solid column of infantry entered upon the bridge, it swayed to and fro to the angry
flood below or the living freight above, settling down and grasping the solid stumps, by which
it was made secure as the line advanced. Once filled with men, it was safe until the corps
had crossed. It then soon became impassable, and the "railroad-bridge," says General Barnard,
"for several days was the only communication between the two wings of the army." Never was
an army in a more precarious situation. Fortunately, however, whatever mistakes we made in
allowing ourselves to be attacked when the two wings of the army were almost separated, the
enemy also committed serious blunders, both as to the point of his attack and the time when
his blow was delivered. His true point of attack was on the right flank of our left wing. Had
the attack which Sumner met and repulsed been made simultaneously with the assault in front,
a single battalion, nay, even a single company, could have seized and destroyed "Sumner's upper
bridge," the only one, as before remarked, then passable, Sumner would consequently have been
unable to take part in the battle, and our left wing would have been taken in flank, and, in
all probability, defeated; or, had the attack been deferred until the next day, or even for
several days, as the bridges became impassable during the night of the thirty-first, it would
probably have been successful.

It is easy to make such criticisms after the events have happened; their mere statement will
carry conviction to the minds of all who were in a position, during these memorable days, to
know the facts that decided the movements; and it is right that they should be made, for it
is only by pointing out the causes of success or failure in military affairs, as, indeed, in
every human undertaking, that we can hope to be successful. But, in doing so, we need not confine
ourselves to one side of the question; we may look at our enemies as well as at ourselves.
Nor need they be made in a spirit of censoriousness; for the importance of individuals, in
speaking of such great events, may safely be overlooked without affecting the lesson we would
learn. Neither should it be forgotten that the general who has always fought his battles at
the right time, in the right place, with the proper arms, and pursued his victories to their
utmost attainable results, has yet to appear. He would, indeed, be an intellectual prodigy.

Such we may suppose to be the reflections of General Barnard, when he points out the mistakes
which were made in the Army of the Potomac while on the Chickahominy. He does not, indeed,
bring to our view the mistakes of the enemy. That would have been travelling outside of the
record in the report of the operations falling under his supervision, and such criticism is
wisely left for some of the enemy's engineers, or for a more general history. In speaking of
the difficulties of crossing the Chickahominy immediately after the battle of the thirty-first
of May, General Barnard says,--"There was one way, however, to unite the army on the other
side; it was to take advantage of a victory at Fair Oaks, to sweep at once the enemy from his
position opposite New Bridge, and, simultaneously, to bring over by the New Bridge our troops
of the right wing, which would then have met with little or no resistance"; and again, in a
more general criticism of the campaign, he says,--"The repulse of the Rebels at Fair Oaks should
have been taken advantage of. It was one of those 'occasions' which, if not seized, do not
repeat themselves. We now know the state of disorganization and dismay in which the Rebel army
retreated. We now know that it could have been followed into Richmond. Had it been so, there
would have been no resistance to overcome to bring over our right wing."

But the "occasion" which the morning of the first of June presented of uniting the two wings
of the army, and thus achieving a great victory, was not seized, because, as General Barnard
says, "we did not then know all that we now do." At the moment when the New Bridge became passable,
8.15, A. M., it is not probable the Commanding General knew it. Nor did he know, that, at this
very moment, the enemy was retreating to Richmond in a "state of disorganization and dismay."
Besides, the troops of the left wing had fought a hard battle the preceding afternoon, and
they had been up all night, throwing up works of defence, and making dispositions to resist
another assault by the enemy. They were not in a condition to assume the offensive against
an enemy who was supposed to be in force and in position, himself preparing to resume the attack
of the previous day, however competent they may have been to pursue a demoralized foe flying
from the field. The propitious moment was lost, not to return,--for, during the day, the rising
flood rendered all the bridges, except the railroad-bridge, impassable.

The necessity for more substantial bridges to connect the two wings of the army had now been
made manifest, and two fine structures, available for all arms, were completed by the nineteenth.
At the same time two foot-bridges were made, the other bridges repaired, and their approaches
made secure, though the enemy still held the approaches of the three upper bridges on the right
bank.

While these bridges were being made, mostly by the right wing of the army, the left wing was
engaged in constructing a strong line of defence, stretching from the White-Oak Swamp to the
Chickahominy, consisting of six redoubts connected by rifle-pits or barricades. General Barnard
says,--"The object of these lines (over three miles long) was to hold our position of the left
wing against the concentrated force of the enemy, until communications across the Chickahominy
could be established; or, if necessary, to maintain our position on this side, while the bulk
of the army was thrown upon the other, should occasion require it; or, finally, to hold one
part of our line and communication by a small force, while our principal offensive effort was
made upon another." At the same time, several batteries were constructed on the left bank of
the river in the neighborhood of the upper bridges, either to operate on the enemy's positions
in their front, or to defend these bridges.

All these preparations were made with the understood purpose of driving the enemy from his
positions in front of New Bridge; and they appear to have been about completed, for on the
night of the twenty-sixth "an epaulement for putting our guns in position" to effect this object
was thrown up. But it was too late. Lee's guns had been heard in the afternoon, in the neighborhood
of Mechanicsville, attacking the advance of our right wing, and Jackson was within supporting
distance. The battle of the twenty-seventh of June, on which "hinged the fate of the campaign,"
was to be fought to-morrow. This battle, or rather the policy of fighting it, or suffering
it to be fought, has been more criticized than any other battle of the campaign. We fought
a battle which was decisive against us with less than one-third of our force.

General Barnard is severe in his criticisms. In his "retrospect, pointing out the mistakes
that were made," he says,--

"At last a moment came when action was imperative. The enemy assumed the initiative, and we
had warning of when and where he was to strike. Had Porter been withdrawn the night of the
twenty-sixth, our army would have been concentrated on the right bank, while two corps at least
of the enemy's force were on the left bank. Whatever course we then took, whether to strike
at Richmond and the portion of the enemy on the right bank, or move at once for the James,
we would have had a concentrated army, and a fair chance of a brilliant result, in the first
place; and in the second, if we accomplished nothing, we would have been in the same case on
the morning of the twenty-seventh as we were on that of the twenty-eighth,--minus a lost battle
and a compulsory retreat; or, had the fortified lines (thrown up expressly for the object)
been held by twenty thousand men, (as they could have been,) we could have fought on the other
side with eighty thousand men instead of twenty-seven thousand; or, finally, had the lines
been abandoned, with our hold on the right bank of the Chickahominy, we might have fought and
crushed the enemy on the left bank, reopened our communications, and then returned and taken
Richmond.

"As it was, the enemy fought with his whole force, (except enough left before our lines to
keep up an appearance,) and we fought with twenty-seven thousand men, losing the battle and
nine thousand men.

"By this defeat we were driven from our position, our advance of conquest turned into a retreat
for safety, by a force probably not greatly superior to our own."

It is to be hoped that the forthcoming report of General McClellan will give us the reasons
which induced him to risk such a battle with such a force, and modify, to some extent at least,
the justice of such outspoken censure.

The services of the engineers in passing the army over White-Oak Swamp, in reconnoitring the
line of retreat to James River, in posting troops, and in defending the final position of the
army at Harrison's Landing, are detailed with great clearness. Of his officers the General
speaks in the highest terms. It appears, that, with a single exception, they were all lieutenants,
whereas "in a European service the chief engineer serving with an army-corps would be a field-officer,
generally a colonel." In this want of rank in the corps of engineers the General says there
is a twofold evil.

"First, the great hardships and injustice to the officers themselves: for they have, almost
without exception, refused or been refused high positions in the volunteer service, (to which
they have seen their contemporaries of the other branches elevated,) on the ground that their
services as engineers were absolutely necessary. Second, it is an evil to the service: since
an adequate rank is almost as necessary to an officer for the efficient discharge of his duties
as professional knowledge. The engineer's duty is a responsible one. He is called upon to decide
important questions,--to fix the position of defensive works, (and thereby of the troops who
occupy them,)--to indicate the manner and points of attack of fortified positions. To give
him the proper weight with those with whom he is associated, he should have, as they have,
adequate rank.

"The campaign on the Peninsula called for great labor on the part of the engineers. The country,
notwithstanding its early settlement, was a terra incognita. We knew the York River and the
James River, and we had heard of the Chickahominy; and this was about the extent of our knowledge.
Our maps were so incorrect that they were found to be worthless before we reached Yorktown.
New ones had to be prepared, based on reconnoissances made by officers of engineers.

"The siege of Yorktown involved great responsibility, besides exposure and toil. The movements
of the whole army were determined by the engineers. The Chickahominy again arrested us, where,
if possible, the responsibility and labor of the engineer officers were increased. In fact,
everywhere, and on every occasion, even to our last position at Harrison's Landing, this responsibility
and labor on the part of the engineers was incessant.

"I have stated above in what manner the officers of engineers performed their duties. Yet thus
far their services are ignored and unrecognized, while distinctions have been bestowed upon
those who have had the good fortune to command troops. Under such circumstances it can hardly
be expected that the few engineer officers yet remaining will willingly continue their services
in this unrequited branch of the military profession. We have no sufficient officers of engineers
at this time with any of our armies to commence another siege, nor can they be obtained. In
another war, if their services are thus neglected in this, we shall have none."

It is to be hoped that the General's appeal for additional rank to the officers of engineers
will not be overlooked. The officers of this corps have demonstrated not only their skill as
engineers, but also their ability to command troops and even armies. On the side of our country's
cause we have McClellan, Halleck, Rosecrans, Meade, Gillmore, and Barnard, besides a score
of others, all generals; and in the ranks of the Rebels we find Lee, Joe Johnston, Beauregard,
Gilmer, and Smith, all generals, too, and all formerly officers of engineers. Nobly have they
all vindicated the scale of proficiency which placed them among the distinguished of their
respective classes at their common Alma Mater.

Whatever may have been the services of other men during our present struggle for nationality,
and whatever may be their services in the future, to General Barry, the Chief of Artillery
of the Army of the Potomac, from the organization of that army to the close of the Peninsular
campaign, more than to any other person, belongs the credit of organizing our admirable system
of field-artillery.

