In his mind arose, vaguely obscure, yet persistent, the idea that brute strength and vigor,
keen senses and reckless bravery were not, after all, the sole qualities that make and influence
men. Old Mok, crippled and disabled for the hunt and defense, was nevertheless a power not
to be despised, and Little Mok, the helpless child, had been still strong enough to win and
keep the love of all the stalwart and rough cave people. Ab was sorry for Lightfoot. When in
the spring the forlorn mother held in her arms a baby girl a little brightness came into her
eyes again, and Ab, seeing this, was glad, but neither Ab nor Lightfoot ever forgot their eldest
and dearest, Little Mok.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE BATTLE OF THE BARRIERS.

While Ab had been occupied by home affairs trouble for him and his people had been brewing.
By no means unknown to each other before the tiger hunt were Ab and Boarface. They had hunted
together and once Boarface, with half a dozen companions, had visited the Fire Valley and had
noted its many attractions and advantages. Now Boarface had gone away angry and muttering,
and he was not a man to be thought of lightly. His rage over the memory of Ab's trophy did
not decrease with the return to his own region. Why should this cave man of the West have sole
possession of that valley, which was warm and green throughout the winter and where the wild
beasts could not enter? Why had he, this Ab, been allowed to go away with all the tiger's skin?
Brooding enlarged into resolve and Boarface gathered together his relations and adherents.
"Let us go and take the Fire Valley of Ab," he said to them, and, gradually, though objections
were made to the undertaking of an enterprise so fraught with danger, the listeners were persuaded.

"There are other fires far down the river," said one old man. "Let us go there, if it is fire
we most need, and so we will not disturb nor anger Ab, who has lived in his valley for many
years. Why battle with Ab and all his people?"

But Boarface laughed aloud: "There are many other earth fires," he said. "I know them well,
but there is no other fire which chances to make a flaming fence about a valley close to the
great rocks, and which has water within the space it surrounds and which makes a wall against
all the wild beasts. We will fight and win the valley of Ab."

And so they were led into the venture. They sought, too, the aid of the Shell People in this
raid, but were not successful. The Shell People were not unfriendly to those of the Fire Valley,
and had not Ab been really the one to kill the tiger? Besides, it was not wise for the waterside
dwellers to engage in any controversy between the forest factions, for the hill people had
memories and heavy axes. A few of the younger and more adventurous joined the force of Boarface,
but the alliance had no tribal sanction. Still, the force of the swarthy leader of the Eastern
cave men was by no means insignificant. It contained good fighting men, and, when runners had
gone far and wide in the Eastern country, there were gathered nearly ten score of hunters who
could throw the spear or wield the ax and who were not fearful of their lives. The band led
by Boarface started for the Fire Country, intending to surprise the people in the valley. They
moved swiftly, but not so swiftly as a fleet young man from the Shell People who preceded them.
He was sent by the elders a day before the time fixed for the assault, and so Ab learned all
about the intended raid. Then went forth runners from the valley; then the matron Lightfoot's
eyes became fiery, since Ab was threatened; then old Hilltop looked carefully over his spears,
and poised thoughtfully his great stone ax; then Moonface smote her children and gathered together
certain weapons, and then Old Mok went into his cave and stayed there, working at none knew what.

They came from all about, the Western cave men, for never in the valley had food or shelter
been refused to any and the Eastern cave men were not loved. Many a quarrel over game had taken
place between the raging hunters of the different tribes, and many a bloody single-handed encounter
had come in the depths of the forest. The band was not a large one, the Eastern men being far
more numerous, but the outlook was not as fine as it might be for the advancing Boarface. The
force assembled inside the valley was, in point of numbers, but little more than half his own,
but it was entrenched and well-armed, and there were those among the defenders whom it was
not well to meet in fight. But Boarface was confident and was not dismayed when his force crept
into the open only to find the ordinary valley entrance barred and all preparations made for
giving him a welcome of the warmer sort. There was what could not be thoroughly barricaded
in so brief a time, the entrance where the brook issued at the west. This pass must be forced,
for the straight, uprising wall between the flames and across the opening to the north was
something relatively unassailable. It was too narrow and too high and sheer and there were
too many holes in the wall through which could be sent those piercing arrows which the Western
cave men knew how to use so well. The battle must be up along the bed of the little creek.
The water was low at this season, so low that a man might wade easily anywhere, and there had
been erected only a slight barrier, enough to keep wild beasts away, for Ab had never thought
of invasion by human beings. The creek tumbled downward, through passages, between straight-sided,
ruggedly built stone heaps, with spaces between wide enough to admit a man, but not any great
beast of prey. There was no place where, by a man, the wall could not easily be mounted and,
above, there was no really good place of vantage for the defenders.

So the invading force, concealment of action being no longer necessary, ranged themselves along
the banks of the creek to the west of the valley and prepared for a rush. They had certain
chances in their favor. They were strong men, who knew how to use their weapons well, and they
were in numbers almost as two to one. Meanwhile, inside the valley, where the approach and
plans of the enemy had been seen and understood, there had gone on swiftly, under Ab's stern
direction, such preparation for the fray as seemed most adequate with the means at hand.

The great advantage possessed was that the defenders, on firm footing themselves, could meet
men climbing, and so, a little further up the creek than the beast-opposing wall, had been
thrown up what was little more than a rude platform of rock, wide and with a broad expanse
of top, on which all the valley's force might cluster in an emergency. Upon this the people
were to gather, defending the first pass, if they could, by flights of spears and arrows and
here, at the end, to win or lose. This was the general preparation for the onslaught, but there
had been precautions taken more personal and more involving the course of the most important
of the people of the valley.

At the left of the gorge, where must come the invaders, the rock rose sheerly and at one place
extended outward a shelf, high up, but reached easily from the Fire Valley side. There were
consultations between Ab and the angry and anxious and almost tearful Lightfoot. That charming
lady, now easily the best archer of the tribe, had developed at once into a fighting creature
and now demanded that her place be assigned to her. With her own bow, and with arrows in quantity,
it was decided that she should occupy the ledge and do all she could. Upon the ledge was comparative
safety in the fray, and Ab directed that she should go there. Old Hilltop said but little.
It was understood, almost as a matter of course, that he would be upon the barrier and there
face, with Ab, the greatest issue. The old man was by no means unsatisfactory to look upon
as he moved silently about and got ready the weapons he might have to use. Gaunt, strong-muscled
and resolute, he was worthy of admiration. Ever following him with her eyes, when not engaged
in the chastisement of one of her swart brood, was Moonface, for Moonface had long since learned
to regard her grizzled lord with love as well as much respect.

There were other good fighting men and other women beside these mentioned who would do their
best, but these few were the dominant figures. Meanwhile, Boarface and his strong band had
decided upon their plan of attack and would soon rush up the bed of the shallow stream with
all the bravery and ferocity of those who were accustomed to face death lightly and to seize
that which they wanted.

The invaders came clambering up the creek's course, openly and with menacing and defiant shouts,
for any concealment was now out of the question. They had but few bows and could, under the
conditions, send no arrow flight which would be of avail, but they had thews and sinews and
spears and axes. As they came with such rush as men might make up a tumbling waterway with
slipping pebbles beneath the feet and forced themselves one by one between the heaped stone
piles and fairly in front of the barrier there was a discharge of arrows and more than one
man, impaled by a stone-headed shaft, fell, to dabble feebly in the water, and did not rise
again. But there came a time in the fight when the bow must be abandoned.

The assault was good and the demeanor of the men behind the barrier was good as well. Not more
gallant was one group than the other for there were splendid fighters in both ranks. The boasted
short sword of the Romans, in times effeminate, as compared with these, afforded not in its
wielding a greater test of personal courage than the handling of the flint-headed spear or
the stone knife or chipped ax. There, all along the barrier, was the real grappling of man
and man, with further existence as the issue.

The invaders, losing many of their number, for arrows flew steadily and a mass so large could
not easily be missed even by the most bungling of those strong archers, swept upward to the
barrier and then was a muscular, deadly tumult worth the seeing. To the south and nearest the
side where Lightfoot was perched with her bow and great bunch of arrows Ab stood in front,
while to his right and near the other end of the rude stone rampart was stationed old Hilltop,
and he hurled his spears and slew men as they came. The fight became simply a death struggle,
with the advantage of position upon one side and of numbers on the other. And Ab and Boarface
were each seeking the other.

So the struggle lasted for a long half hour, and when it ended there were dead and dying men
upon the barrier, while the waters of the creek were reddened by the blood of the slain assailants.
The assault now ebbed a little. Neither Ab nor Hilltop had been injured in the struggle. As
the invaders pressed close Ab had noted the whish of an arrow now and then and the hurt to
one pressing him closely, and old Hilltop had heard the wild cries of a woman who hovered in
his rear and hurled stones in the faces of those who strove to reach him. And now there came
a lull.

Boarface had recognized the futility of scaling, under such conditions, a steep so well defended
and had thought of a better way to gain his end and crush Ab and his people. He had heard the
story of Ab's first advent into the valley when, chased by the wolves, he leaped through the
flame, and there came an inspiration to him! What one man had done others could do, and, with
picked warriors of his band, he made a swift detour, while, at the same time, the main body
rushed desperately upon the barrier again.

What had been good fighting before was better now. Lives were lost, and soon all arrows were
spent and all spears thrown, and then came but the dull clashing of stone axes. Ab raged up
and down, and, ever in the front, faced the oncoming foe and slew as could slay the strong
and utterly desperate. More than once his life was but a toy of chance as men sprang toward
him, two or three together, but ever at such moment there sang an arrow by his head and one
of his assailants, pierced in throat or body, fell back blindly, hampering his companions,
whose heads Ab's great ax was seeking fiercely. And, all the time, nearer the northern end
of the barrier, old Hilltop fought serenely and dreadfully. There were many dead men in the
pools of the creek between the barrier and the entrance to the valley. And about Ab ever sang
the arrows from the rocky shelf.

There was wild clamor, the clash of weapons and the shouting of battle-crazed men but there
was not enough to drown the sound of a scream which rose piercingly above the din. Ab recognized
the voice of Lightfoot and raised his eyes to see the woman, regardless of her own safety,
standing upright and pointing up the valley. He knew that something meaning life and death
was happening and that he must go. He leaped backward and a huge Western cave man sprang to
his place, to serve as best he could.

Not a moment too soon had that shrill cry reached the ears of the fighting man. He ran backward,
shouting to a score of his people to follow him as he ran, and in an instant recognized that
he had been outwitted, at least for the moment, by the vengeful Boarface. As he rushed to the
east toward the wall of flame he saw a dark form pass through its crest in a flying leap. There
were others he knew would follow. His own feat of long ago was being repeated by Boarface and
his chosen group of best men!

It was not Boarface who leaped and it was hard for a gallant youth of the Eastern cave men
that he had strength and daring and had dashed ahead in the assault, for he had scarcely touched
the ground when there sank deeply into his head a stone ax, impelled by the strongest arm of
all that region, and he was no more among things alive. Ab had reached the fire wall with the
speed of a great runner while, close behind him, came his eager following.

The forces could see each other clearly enough now, and those on the outside outnumbered those
on the inside again by two to one. But those leaping the flames could not alight poised ready
for a blow, and there were adroit and vengeful axmen awaiting them. There was a momentary pause
for planning among the assailants, and then it was that Ab fumed over his own lack of foresight.
His chosen band who were with him now were all bowmen, and about the shoulder and chest of
each was still slung his weapon, but there were no more arrows. Each quiverful had been shot
away early in the fight and then had come the spear and ax play. But what a chance for arrows
now, with that threatening band preparing for the rush and leap together, and, while out of
reach of spear or ax, within easy reach of the singing little shafts! Oh, for the shafts now,
those slender barbed things which were hurled in his new way! And, even as he thus raged, there
came a feeble shout from down the valley behind him and he saw something very good!

Limping, with effort, but resolutely forward, was a bent old man, bearing encircled within
his long arms a burden which Ab himself could not have carried for any distance without stress
and labored breathing. The lean old Mok's arms were locked about a monster sheaf of straight
flint-headed arrows, a sheaf greater in size than ever man had looked upon before. The crippled
veteran had not been idle in his cave. He had worked upon the store of shafts and flintheads
he had accumulated, and here was the result in a great emergency!

The old man cast his sheaf upon the ground and then sank down, somewhat totteringly, beside
it. There needed no shout of command from Ab to tell those about him what to do. There was
one combined yell of sudden exultation, a rush together for the shafts and a swift filling
of empty quivers. It was but the work of a moment or two. Then something promptly happened.
The great fellows, though acting without orders, shot almost "all together," as the later English
archers did, and so close just across the flame wall was the opposing group that the meanest
archer in all the lot could scarcely fail to reach a living target, and stronger arms drew
back those arrows than were the arms of those who drew bowstring in the battles of mediaeval
history. With the first deadly flight came a scattering outside and men lay tossing upon the
ground in their death agony. There was no cessation to the shot, though Boarface sought fiercely
to rally his followers, until all had fled beyond the range of the bowmen. Upon the ground
were so many dead that the numbers of the two forces were now more nearly equal. But Boarface
had brave followers. They ranged themselves together at a safe distance and then started for
the flame wall with a rush, to leap it all together.

There was another arrow-flight as the onslaught came, and more men went down, but the charge
could not be stopped. Over the low flame-crests shot a great mass of bodies, there to meet
that which was not good for them. The struggle was swift and deadly, but the forces were almost
evenly matched now and the insiders had the advantage. Boarface and Ab met face to face in
the melee and each leaped toward the other with a yell. There was to be a fight which must
be excellent, for two strong leaders were meeting and there were many lives at stake.

CHAPTER XXIX.

OLD HILLTOP'S LAST STRUGGLE.

Even as he leaped the flames, the desperate Boarface hurled at Ab a fragment of stone, which
was a thing to be wisely dodged, and the invader was fairly on his feet and in position to
face his adversary as the axes came together. More active, more powerful, it may be, and certainly
more intelligent, was Ab than Boarface, but the leader of the assailants had been a raider
from early youth and knew how to take advantage. In those fierce days to attain the death of
an enemy, in any way, was the practical end sought in a conflict. Close behind Boarface had
leaped a youth to whom the leader had given his commands before the onrush and who, as he found
his feet upon the valley's sward, sought, not an adversary face to face, but circled about
the two champions, seeking only to get behind the leaping Ab while Boarface occupied his sole
attention. The young man bore a great stone-headed club, a dreadful weapon in such hands as
his. The men struck furiously and flakes spun from the heavy axes, but Boarface was being slowly
driven back when there descended upon Ab's shoulder a blow which swerved him and would certainly
have felled a man with less heaped brawn to meet the impact. At the same instant Boarface made
a fierce downward stroke and Ab leaped aside without parrying or returning it, for his arm
was numbed. Another such blow from the new assailant and his life was lost, yet he dare not
turn. That would be his death. And now Boarface rushed in again and as the axes came together
called to his henchman to strike more surely.

