It is a tragic coincidence that, just as RUPERT BROOKE'S now famous sonnets were published
in volume form after his own death, the appearance of his Letters from America (SIDGWICK AND
JACKSON) follows immediately upon the death of Mr. HENRY JAMES, who had written the preface
to them. Thus in one book we have the last work of two writers, widely separated in age and
circumstance, but united by a very real bond of artistic and personal sympathy. How generous
was the elder man's appreciation of the younger may be seen in this preface; it is at its best
and simplest in dealing with that charm of personality by which all who knew RUPERT BROOKE
will most vividly remember him. Elsewhere it must be confessed that the preface is by no means
easy reading, so that one emerges at last a little breathless upon the transparent and sunlit
stream of the Letters themselves. Many who recall these from their publication in The Westminster
Gazette will be glad to meet them again. Those who knew the writer only as the poet of 1914
will perhaps wonder to find him the whimsical and smiling young adventurer who moves with such
boyish enjoyment through these pages. There is holiday humour in them, even in the occasional
statistics--holiday tasks, these latter; and everywhere the freshness of an unclouded vision.
"Only just in time," one thinks, sharing the happiness that his Letters reflect, and grateful
for it as for a beautiful thing snatched so narrowly from fate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. BELLOC LOWNDES has written a story of the War that has at least the distinction of being
absolutely fair. She has indeed got so far away from the perhaps excusable error of painting
Germans uniformly black that her Huns in The Red Cross Barge (SMITH, ELDER) are made upon the
average quite as attractive as their enemies. This by way of warning, so that if you are in
no mood to look for pearls amid swine you may avoid some impatience and a feeling that impartiality
can be carried too far. Not by any means that The Red Cross Barge is a pro-German book....
There is an attractive sense of atmosphere about Mrs. LOWNDES' picture of the little French
town in which a group of Germans are left during what appears to them the triumphal march to
Paris. Here Herr Doktor Max Keller meets and falls in love with a French girl who is looking
after certain wounded of both nations. The peaceful and picturesque air of the little place
during this quiet occupation is well contrasted with the horrors that befall it when the draggled
and drink-sodden soldiery come surging back in their retreat from the Marne. Eventually, just
as the Germans are leaving, Keller is fatally wounded, and dies holding the hand of the enemy
who has become so dear to him. One can hardly call the tale anything but sentimental, but it
is sentiment of a fragrant and wholesome kind. In the years to come such stories will no doubt
multiply indefinitely, but there will be few more gracefully and gently told.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

