A few corrections have been made for obvious typographical errors; they have been noted individually.
Superscripts in the original are indicated by the ^ character. Side notes are enclosed in brackets
and preceded with SN, thus [SN: side note]. Footnotes are numbered with the page on which they
start.}

JOURNAL OF THE SWEDISH EMBASSY IN THE YEARS 1653 AND 1654.

A JOURNAL OF THE SWEDISH EMBASSY IN THE YEARS 1653 AND 1654.

IMPARTIALLY WRITTEN BY THE AMBASSADOR BULSTRODE WHITELOCKE.

FIRST PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPT BY DR. CHARLES MORTON, M.D., F.S.A., LIBRARIAN
OF THE BRITISH MUSEUM.

A NEW EDITION, REVISED BY HENRY REEVE, ESQ., F.S.A.

IN TWO VOLUMES. VOLUME II.

    "A wicked messenger falleth into mischief, but a faithful ambassador
    is health."
                                               PROVERBS xiii. 17.

LONDON: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS. 1855.

JOURNAL OF THE SWEDISH EMBASSY IN THE YEARS 1653 AND 1654.

MARCH 1, 1653.

[SN: Whitelocke continues the negotiation.]

Now was the heat of Whitelocke's business, and many cross endeavours used to render all his
labours fruitless, and to bring his treaty to no effect. But it pleased God, in whom his confidence
was placed, to carry him through all his difficulties, and to give his blessing and success
to this negotiation.

Whitelocke gave a visit to the Count de Montecuculi, to give him the welcome home from his
journey with the Queen; who said he had commands to kiss the hand of the Prince of Sweden,
and took the opportunity of accompanying her Majesty when she went to meet the Prince. He communicated
nothing of the business to Whitelocke, nor did he think to inquire it of him.

After Whitelocke returned home, the Resident of France and Woolfeldt met at his house to visit
him, and staid with him three hours. They had much discourse of France, and of the Duke of
Lorraine, and of the policy of the Spaniard in entertaining that Duke in his service; by means
whereof the country where the Duke's soldiers were quartered was better satisfied than with
the Spanish forces, so that there was no tax levied for them, only they took free quarter,
and sometimes a contribution upon the receiving of a new officer. And Woolfeldt said, that
whereas all other Princes give wages to their officers and soldiers, the Duke gives no pay;
but when he makes an officer, the officer pays money to the Duke for his commission; and that
he knew a captain of horse who gave a thousand crowns for his commission, which the captain
afterwards raised upon the country, and the Duke connived at it. He told how he was employed
to treat with the Duke for the transportation of five thousand foot and three thousand horse
into Ireland, to assist our King; which the Duke undertook on condition to have a hundred thousand
crowns in ready money, and ships to transport his men from some haven in France, none of which
could be effected.

[SN: Advances from France.]

After Woolfeldt went away, the French Resident asked Whitelocke whether France were comprised
in the treaty with Holland. Whitelocke said he had no information thereof. The Resident replied,
that his master would willingly entertain a good friendship and correspondence with England;
and Whitelocke said, he believed England would be ready to do the like with France. The Resident
said, he observed by their discourse that Whitelocke had been in France, and that the late
King would have given him the command of a troop of horse in France; and he hoped that Whitelocke
would retain a good opinion of that country, and be their friend. Whitelocke replied, that
he was very civilly treated in France, and believed that he should have served the late King
there, if, by a sudden accident or misfortune, he had not been prevented, and obliged to return
for England sooner than he intended; and that he should be always ready (as he held himself
engaged) to pay all respects and service to that Crown, as far as might consist with the interest
of the Commonwealth whom he served.

March 2, 1653.

[SN: Senator Schütt explains the delay in the negotiation.]

Notwithstanding his great words against the Commonwealth and present treaty, yet Monsieur Schütt
was pleased to afford a visit to Whitelocke, and they fell (amongst many other things) upon
the following discourse:--

Schütt. My father was formerly ambassador from this Crown in England, where I was with him,
which occasioned my desire to be known to you.

Whitelocke. Your father did honour to this country and to ours in that employment, and your
Excellence honours me in this visit.

Sch. England is the noblest country and people that ever I saw: a more pleasant, fruitful,
and healthful country, and a more gallant, stout, and rich people, are not in the world.

Wh. I perceive you have taken a true measure, both of the country and her inhabitants.

Sch. This is my judgement of it, as well as my affection to it.

Wh. Your country here is indeed more northerly, but your people, especially the nobility, of
a much-like honourable condition to ours; which may cause the more wonder at her Majesty's
intention of leaving them, who are so affectionate to her.

Sch. Truly her Majesty's purpose of resignation is strange to foreigners, and much more to
us, who are her subjects, most affectionate to her.

Wh. It is reported that she hath consulted in this business with the Senators, whereof you are one.

Sch. Three Senators are deputed to confer with the Prince of Sweden, upon certain particulars
to be observed in the resignation; and I hope that your Excellence will consider the importance
of that affair, and will therefore attend with the more patience the issue thereof, being necessary
that the advice of the Prince be had in it.

Wh. Have the three deputed Senators any order to confer with the Prince about my business?

Sch. I believe they have.

Wh. I had been here two months before the Queen mentioned this design of hers to the Council,
and have staid here all this time with patience, and shall so continue as my Lord Protector
shall command me; and as soon as he requires my return I shall obey him.

Sch. The occasion of the delay hitherto was the uncertainty of the issue of your Dutch treaty;
and at this season of the year it was impossible for you to return, till the passage be open.

Wh. I believe the alliance with England meriteth an acceptance, whether we have peace or war
with Holland; and for my return, it is at the pleasure of the Protector.

They had much other discourse; and probably Schütt was sent purposely to excuse the delay of
the treaty, for which he used many arguments not necessary to be repeated; and he came also
to test Whitelocke touching advice to be had with the Prince about this treaty, whereunto Whitelocke
showed no averseness.

[SN: Treacherous reports to England.]

Whitelocke received his packet of two weeks from England. In a letter from his wife he was
advertised that the Protector had spoken of his voyage to Sweden as if Whitelocke had not merited
much by it, though he so earnestly persuaded it; and his wife wrote that she believed one of
Whitelocke's family was false to him; and upon inquiry she suspected it to be ----, who gave
intelligence to the Protector of all Whitelocke's words and actions in Sweden, to his prejudice,
and very unbeseeming one of his family. This Whitelocke, comparing with some passages told
him by his secretary of the same person, found there was cause enough to suspect him; yet to
have one such among a hundred he thought no strange thing, nor for the Protector to alter his
phrase when his turn was served. And though this gave ground enough of discontent to Whitelocke,
yet he thought not fit to discover it, nor what other friends had written to him, doubting
whether he should be honourably dealt with at his return home; but he was more troubled to
hear of his wife's sickness, for whose health and his family's he made his supplication to
the great Physician; and that he might be as well pleased with a private retirement, if God
saw it good for him, at his return home, as the Queen seemed to be with her design of abdication
from the heights and glories of a crown.

Part of the letters to Whitelocke were in cipher, being directions to him touching the Sound.
He had full intelligence of all passages of the Dutch treaty, and a copy of the articles, from
Thurloe; also the news of Scotland, Ireland, France, and the letters from the Dutch Resident
here to his superiors in Holland, copies whereof Thurloe by money had procured. He wrote also
of the Protector's being feasted by the City, and a full and large relation of all passages
of moment. The Protector himself wrote also his letters to Whitelocke under his own hand, which
were thus:--

[SN: Letter from the Protector.]

    "For the Lord Ambassador Whitelocke.

    "My Lord,

    "I have a good while since received your letters sent by the ship
    that transported you to Gothenburg, and three other despatches
    since. By that of the 30th of December, and that of the 4th instant,
    I have received a particular account of what passed at your first
    audience, and what other proceedings have been upon your
    negotiation; which, so far as they have been communicated to me, I
    do well approve of, as having been managed by you with care and
    prudence.

    "You will understand by Mr. Secretary Thurloe in what condition the
    treaty with the United Provinces is, in case it shall please God
    that a peace be made with them, which a little time will show; yet I
    see no reason to be diverted thereby from the former intentions of
    entering into an alliance with Sweden, nor that there will be
    anything in the league intended with the Low Countries repugnant
    thereunto, especially in things wherein you are already instructed
    fully. And for the matter of your third and fourth private
    instructions, if the Queen hath any mind thereto, upon your
    transmitting particulars hither such consideration will be had
    thereof as the then constitution of affairs will lead unto. In the
    meantime you may assure the Queen of the constancy and reality of my
    intentions to settle a firm alliance with her. I commend you to the
    goodness of God.

                                    "Your loving friend,
                                                       "OLIVER P.
    "Whitehall, 3rd February, 1653."

March 3, 1653.

[SN: The son of Oxenstiern formerly sent to England.]

Grave John Oxenstiern, eldest son of the Chancellor, came to visit Whitelocke; a Ricks-Senator,
and had been Ricks-Schatz-master, or High Treasurer, a place next in honour to that of his
father. He had been formerly ambassador from this Crown to England; but because he was sent
by the Chancellor his father, and the other Directors of the affairs of Sweden in the Queen's
minority, which King Charles and his Council took not to be from a sovereign prince; and because
his business touching the Prince Elect's settlement, and the affairs of Germany relating to
Sweden, did not please our King; therefore this gentleman was not treated here with that respect
and solemnity as he challenged to be due to him as an ambassador; which bred a distaste in
him and his father against the King and Council here, as neglecting the father and the good
offices which he tendered to King Charles and this nation, by slighting the son and his quality.

The discourse between this Grave and Whitelocke was not long, though upon several matters;
and he seemed to be sent to excuse the delay of the treaty with Whitelocke, for which he mentioned
former reasons, as his father's want of health, multiplicity of business, the expected issue
of the Dutch treaty, and the like; and the same excuses were again repeated by Lagerfeldt,
who came to Whitelocke from the Chancellor for the same purpose.

Whitelocke had occasion to look into his new credentials and instructions from the Protector,
which were thus.

[SN: Whitelocke's new credentials and instructions.]

    "Oliver, Lord Protector, etc., to the Most Serene and Potent
    Prince Christina, etc., health and prosperity.

    "Most Serene and Potent Queen,

    "God, who is the great Disposer of all things, having been pleased
    in His unsearchable wisdom to make a change in the Government of
    these nations since the time that the noble B. Whitelocke,
    Constable, etc. went from hence, qualified and commissioned as
    Ambassador Extraordinary from the Parliament of the Commonwealth of
    England unto your Majesty, to communicate with you in things tending
    to the mutual good and utility of both the nations, we have thought
    it necessary upon this occasion to assure your Majesty that the
    present change of affairs here hath made no alteration of the good
    intentions on this side towards your Majesty and your dominions; but
    that as we hold ourself obliged, in the exercise of that power which
    God and the people have entrusted us with, to endeavour by all just
    and honourable means to hold a good correspondence with our
    neighbours, so more particularly with the Crown of Sweden, between
    whom and these nations there hath always been a firm amity and
    strict alliance; and therefore we have given instructions to the
    said Lord Whitelocke, answerable to such good desires, earnestly
    requesting your Majesty to give unto him favourable audience as
    often as he shall desire it, and full belief in what he shall
    propound on the behalf of these dominions. And so we heartily
    commend your Majesty and your affairs to the Divine protection.
    Given at Whitehall this 23rd of December, Old Style, 1653.

                                    "Your good friend,
                                                      "OLIVER P."

The following instructions were under the hand and private seal of the Protector:--

    "An Instruction for B. Whitelocke, Constable, etc., Ambassador
    Extraordinary from the Commonwealth of England to the Queen of
    Sweden.

    "Whereas you were lately sent in the quality of Ambassador
    Extraordinary from the Parliament of the Commonwealth of England
    unto her Majesty the Queen of Sweden, for the renewing and
    contracting an alliance and confederation with that Queen and Crown,
    according to the commission and instructions you received from the
    said Parliament and the then Council of State; And whereas, since
    your departure hence, the then Parliament hath been dissolved, and
    the Government is settled and established in such a way that you
    will understand by letters from Mr. Thurloe, Secretary of the
    Council, who is directed to give unto you a full account hereof: Now
    lest the work you are upon (which is so necessary in itself to both
    the nations, and so sincerely desired on our part) should be
    interrupted or retarded by reason of the said change of affairs, and
    the question that may arise thereupon concerning the validity of
    your commission and instructions, I have thought fit, by advice of
    the Council, to write unto her Majesty new letters credential, a
    copy whereof you will receive herewith, which letters you are to
    present to the Queen. And you are also, by virtue of these presents,
    to let her Majesty know that the alteration of the Government here
    hath made no change in the good intentions on this side towards her
    Majesty and her dominions; but that she shall find the same
    readiness in me to maintain and increase all good intelligence and
    correspondence with that Queen and Crown as in any the former
    governors of these nations. And to that end you are hereby
    authorized to proceed in your present negotiation, and to endeavour
    to bring the treaty with her Majesty to a good conclusion according
    to the tenour and effect of the commission, powers, and instructions
    you have already received, and which I shall by any further act
    ratify and confirm according as the nature of the business shall
    require.

    "Before your Lordship deliver these letters credential to the Queen,
    or make any addresses to her, you are to inform yourself fully of
    the reception you are like to have, and whether her intentions be to
    come to a treaty of amity with this State as the Government is now
    established, that no dishonour may befall us or these dominions in
    your addresses upon these letters and instructions. Given at
    Whitehall this 23rd of December, 1653.

                                                      "OLIVER P."

Whitelocke made many despatches this day to England.

March 4, 1653.

[SN: The Queen talks of visiting the Protector.]

Whitelocke waited on the Queen and showed her part of the letters which he received from England,
whereupon she again asked him if the Protector were sacré? Whitelocke said, No, and that his
letters mentioned only a solemnity of entertaining the Protector by the City of London. Whitelocke
also communicated to her Majesty the Protector's letter to him, and the expression that Whitelocke
should assure her Majesty of the Protector's constant and real intentions to settle a firm
alliance with the Queen; which, she said, she was also most ready to make with the Protector.

Whitelocke then said it might be fit to make some progress in his treaty upon his articles,
and particularly in those which concerned amity and commerce, and had no dependence on the
issue of the treaty with Holland, and therefore might be had in consideration before the other
were fully concluded, and the rest of the articles might be considered afterwards; which the
Queen said should be done, and that she would send an ambassador to the Protector. She was
very inquisitive concerning London and our Universities; by her discourse gave him to imagine
she had thoughts of travelling into France, Spain, Italy, and into England; and asked Whitelocke
if he thought the Protector would give way to her coming thither. Whitelocke answered, that
the Protector would bid her Majesty very welcome thither.

He was alone with her near two hours, and at his taking leave she desired him to come to her
again on Monday next, and that then she would read over with him his articles, both in Latin
and English, which they would consider together; and such things as she could consent unto
she would tell him, and what she could not consent unto he should then know from her, and they
might mark it in the margin as they went along. Yet she said she would have him to proceed
in his conference with her Chancellor as before, and that nobody should know of that conference
between her and Whitelocke; but she would so order the business that what they consented unto
should be effected afterwards, and that in two hours they might go over all the articles. Whitelocke
told her Majesty he presumed that she would admit of a free debate upon any of them. She said,
by all means, that was reasonable; and in case the peace between England and Holland did not
take effect, that then the ambassador, whom she intended howsoever to send into England, might
conclude upon such other articles as should be thought fit. Whitelocke asked her if she had
any thoughts of being included in the Dutch treaty. She said, No, for she had not meddled with
the war, and therefore desired not to be included in the peace with them.

[SN: Reports of the Dutch Resident adverse to Whitelocke.]

From the Queen Whitelocke went and visited Piementelle, who showed him a letter he received
from a great person in Flanders, mentioning that Beningen had written to his superiors that
the English Ambassador and the Spanish Resident were often together, and had showed great respect
to each other, which his Highness the Archduke liked very well, and gave Piementelle thanks
for it; and though Monsieur Beningen did not like of their being so friendly, yet his superiors
endeavoured all they could to have amity with England. When Whitelocke told him of the English
fleet at sea, he said it was great pity the same was not employed. He then showed Whitelocke
a letter from Beningen to his superiors, wherein he taxed Whitelocke with omitting the ceremony
of meeting Prince Adolphus at his door. Whitelocke repeated to Piementelle the carriage of
that business as before; and Piementelle said, that neither the Queen nor himself had ever
heard the Prince express any dislike of Whitelocke's carriage; and that the Queen, seeing Beningen's
letter, said there were many things in it concerning Whitelocke which upon her knowledge were
not true. It was also said in the letter that the English Ambassador had many long audiences
with her Majesty, and conferences with the Chancellor, but that he could not in the least learn
what passed between them; with which Whitelocke had no cause to be displeased.

March 5, 1653.

The Lord's Day.--Whitelocke had two good sermons in his house, at which divers English and
Scots, besides those of his family, were present. In the evening the Queen passed through the
streets in her coach, with divers other coaches and her servants waiting on her, to take the
air, though upon this day; and in the night, many disorderly drunkards were committing debaucheries
and insolences in the town, and at Whitelocke's door.

March 6, 1653.

[SN: Further excuses for delay.]

Whitelocke visited Senator Schütt, who spake in excuse of the delay of his business. Whitelocke
said--

Whitelocke. I have already staid long in this place, and nothing is yet done in my business.

Schütt. Your stay here hath been of more advantage to England than if they had sent 10,000
men into Holland, who, by your stay here, will be brought on with the greater desire of making
peace with you.

Wh. They know nothing of my negotiation.

Sch. That makes them the more jealous; the slowness of one person is the cause that hitherto
you have received no satisfaction, and I doubt not but ere long you will have answers to your
contentment.

Whilst Whitelocke was with him the Queen sent one of her gentlemen thither to him, to desire
him to put off his visit of her Majesty till the next day, by reason she had then extraordinary
business; and the messenger being gone, Schütt said,--

Schütt. The Queen is busy in despatching three senators to the Prince, Grave Eric Oxenstiern,
Monsieur Fleming, and Monsieur Vanderlin, who are deputed for the business of the Queen's resignation;
and I, in a few days, shall be sent to the Prince.

Whitelocke. I pray do me the favour to present my service to his Royal Highness, whom I am
very desirous to salute as soon as I can gain an opportunity; and do hope that his resort to
this place will be before I shall be necessitated to return, that I may give myself the honour
to kiss his hand.

[SN: Whitelocke visits the Chief Justice of Sweden.]

Whitelocke visited the Ricks-Droitset Grave Brahe, who is of the noble family of Tycho Brahe.
He was President of the College of Justice, and the First Minister of State of the kingdom:
the name of his office is as much as Viceroy, and his jurisdiction is a sovereign court for
the administration of justice, and he hath power both civil and military. The office is in
effect the same with that ancient officer with us called the Chief Justice of England. The
habit of this Chief Justice of Sweden was a coat, and a furred cap of black, a sword and belt,
and no cloak; two soldiers sentry at his chamber-door, which Whitelocke had not observed elsewhere
but at the Court. They had much discourse of Whitelocke's business, wherein he testified affections
to the Commonwealth of England, though Whitelocke had been informed that he was not their friend;
but he the rather chose to visit him first, and found him very civil: he spake Latin very readily,
and no French, although Whitelocke was told he could speak it well.

He inquired much of the Commonwealth and affairs of England, and government of it, and seemed
well pleased by Whitelocke's relation of it. He informed Whitelocke of the Swedish Government,
and particularly of his own office. He discoursed much of the Prince of Sweden, which Whitelocke
judged the fitter for him to approve, because Prince Adolphus's lady was this Grave's daughter.
He told Whitelocke that he had been Governor of Finland ten years together, which province
he affirmed to be greater than France, and that the Queen's dominions were larger than France,
Spain, Italy, all together. Whitelocke asked him if those countries were well peopled, and
flourished with corn and good towns. He answered that Finland was well peopled, and had store
of corn, and good towns; but that it was not so with Lapland and other countries further off.
But he said that no part of Sweden had such towns as were in England, where he had been when
he was a young man, which country he much praised; and Whitelocke had no cause to gainsay it.

Piementelle sent to Whitelocke an atlas, in four great volumes, in acknowledgment of a vessel
of Spanish wine which Whitelocke had before sent to him for a present.

March 7, 1653.

The Governor of Upsal, Monsieur Bannier, presented to Whitelocke three Latin books:--1. The
Story of Sweden; 2. Of the Laws of Sweden; 3. Of Sea Affairs; which were not ordinarily to be had.

[SN: Whitelocke takes the air with the Queen.]

The Queen sent one of her servants to invite Whitelocke to take the air with her in the fields;
and being come to the castle, she excused her not being yet ready to confer with him upon his
articles, as she had promised, but told him that she had ordered something to be written down
on that subject to show to him. She took him into her coach, where was the "Belle Comtesse,"
the Countess Gabriel Oxenstiern, Prince Adolphus, Piementelle, Montecuculi, Tott, and Whitelocke.
The Queen was very merry, and they were full of cheerful discourse. Being returned to the castle
at night, she desired to hear Whitelocke's music, whom he sent for to the castle; and they
played and sang in her presence, wherewith she seemed much pleased, and desired Whitelocke
to thank them in her name. She said she never heard so good a concert of music, and of English
songs; and desired Whitelocke, at his return to England, to procure her some to play on those
instruments which would be most agreeable to her.

[SN: The Chancellor falls ill.]

Lagerfeldt came to Whitelocke in the Court, and told him that the Chancellor intended to have
had a meeting with him this day, but was hindered by falling sick of an ague; but in case his
health would not permit him to meet, that then his son Eric Oxenstiern, by the Queen's appointment,
would meet and confer with Whitelocke about the treaty in place of his father. But Whitelocke
was not glad of this deputation, wishing much rather to confer with the old man upon this subject,
who was good-natured, civil, and affectionate to Whitelocke, than with the son, Grave Eric,
who was of a more rugged and self-conceited humour, and not so soon gained by reason and convinced
by arguments as the good old man his father used to be.

March 8, 1653.

[SN: The Chancellor's son resumes the negotiation.]

Grave Eric Oxenstiern visited Whitelocke, and spake much to excuse the delay of his treaty;
and said that his father was very sick of an ague, and he believed the Queen would depute some
other to confer with him, in case his father's health would not permit him that liberty.

Whitelocke. I am very sorry for the indisposition of your{1} father, and for the delay of my
business. I have been here about three months, and nothing is yet concluded.

Gr. Eric. The uncertainty of your Dutch affair, and the Queen's desire to know the issue of
it, hath occasioned this delay.

Wh. As the points of amity and commerce, they concern not our Dutch treaty.

Gr. Eric. You will be sure to receive all satisfaction and contentment on that subject; but
there are many particulars of the commerce to be considered.

Wh. I cannot say much upon those particulars; but I was sent hither by my Lord Protector to
testify his respect to the Queen and kingdom of Sweden, and to offer to them the amity of England,
which I suppose that wise and experienced persons as you are will accept of; and for commerce
my proposals are general.

Gr. Eric. I confess the particulars thereof may more conveniently be treated on by merchants;
and we do not so much desire a confederation with any nation as with England.

It was supposed by Whitelocke, that by the deferring of his business here, the Hollanders would
be in the more suspense and doubt of the issue of it, and might thereby come on the more freely
in their treaty with England; whereas, if the issue of his business here were known, it might
perhaps seem less to them than it was now suspected to be. Upon this ground, though he spake
of the delay, yet he did not so much press for a positive answer, but that he imagined the
Dutch treaty might be brought to an issue; he intended to put on his business here, and the
default hitherto rested on their part, as was acknowledged by their own excuses.

[SN: Discourse with the Chief Justice.]

Whilst Eric was with Whitelocke, the Chief Justice came in. And after Grave Eric was gone the
Chief Justice discoursed much concerning the Protector and his family, his extraction and pedigree,
his former quality and condition, and his present state and manner of living: to which Whitelocke
answered truly, and with honour to the Protector; and as to his present post, attendants, and
ceremonies of his Court, he could not give so punctual an account, it being altered since his
coming from England. He also inquired particularly concerning the Parliament, the forms of
their summons, sitting, debating, voting, power, and authority; in all which Whitelocke was
the better able to satisfy him, having been a Member of Parliament for almost thirty years
together: and then the Chief Justice inquired further:--

Chief Justice. What opinions of Calvin are most in estimation in England? and what is the state
of your religion there?

Whitelocke. Neither Calvin's opinion nor Luther's are esteemed in England further than they
are agreeable to the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, which are the rules and
contain the state of religion professed in England. But by what state of religion is the profanation
of the Lord's Day, and of images and crucifixes in churches, permitted?

Ch. Just. No recreations or works are permitted on Sundays till after divine service ended,
and then Calvin permits them; and Luther is of opinion for the historical use of images and
crucifixes, but not to pray to them.

Wh. Herein both the opinion of Calvin and that of Luther are expressly contrary to the Holy
Scripture, and therefore not esteemed in these points in England.

The Chief Justice eagerly asserted these opinions not to be contrary to the Scripture, but
alleged no proof, either from thence or out of human authors, to make good his assertion. After
much argumentation hereupon, the Chief Justice offered to Whitelocke that he would move the
Queen for a speedy despatch of his business; and said, he did not doubt but that satisfaction
would be given him therein.

Whitelocke was the more desirous to get a conclusion of his business while Piementelle was
here, because of his great favour with the Queen; which, with her respects to Montecuculi,
both great Papists, caused Whitelocke to have the more doubt of her inclinations.

Prince Adolphus made a great entertainment for Montecuculi, Piementelle, and most of the grandees
in town; but Whitelocke was omitted, his humour and principles as to their jollities and drinking
of healths not being agreeable to theirs; and he held this neglect no affliction to him.

March 9, 1653.

Whitelocke visited the Ricks-Admiral Oxenstiern, the Chancellor's brother, who received him
with great civility; and they discoursed very much of Whitelocke's business to the effect as
others did.

[SN: Whitelocke visits the Chancellor's eldest son.]

He also visited Grave John Oxenstiern, the Chancellor's eldest son, whose carriage was elated.
Two of his pages were sons of Earls, and had the title of Earls; his servants were some of
them set at his outer door to receive Whitelocke; himself vouchsafed to meet him at the inner
door, and, with supercilious reservedness of state, descended to say to Whitelocke that he
was welcome. They discoursed of England, where this Grave had been, as is before remembered,
and the distaste he there received, which possibly might cause his greater neglect of Whitelocke,
who took little notice of it. He took upon him to be fully instructed in the affairs of England,
and of the laws and government there; wherein Whitelocke presumed to rectify some of his mistakes.

When he offered to move the Queen for despatch of Whitelocke's business, he answered, that
he had done it himself already, and there would be no need to trouble any other. This occasioned
some discourse about the treaty, to which, with great gravity, this General declared his judgement
concerning contraband goods, that great care was to be taken therein, not to give any interruption
to trade. Whitelocke said, that concerned England much more than Sweden. Then he took care
that the English rebels and traitors might have favour in his country; but Whitelocke, knowing
that he was neither employed nor versed in the business of his treaty, spent the fewer words
in answer to his immaterial objections.

[SN: Whitelocke confers with the Queen on the articles.]

In the afternoon, Whitelocke attended the Queen, who excused her not having conferred with
him about his treaty. Whitelocke told her, that, if it were now seasonable, he had them ready,
and they might read them over together; whereunto she consented, and he read them to her.

She took out a paper of notes, written with her own hand in Latin, her observations upon the
articles.

1. After Whitelocke had read the first article, she said there was nothing therein which needed
explanation.

2. The second, she said, would require consideration, and read out of her notes the words "communis
interesse," which she desired Whitelocke to explain what was meant by them. He told her those
words included matter of safety and matter of traffic. She then demanded why the Baltic Sea
was named as to free navigation, and not other seas likewise. Whitelocke said the reason was,
because at present navigation was not free in the Baltic Sea; but if she pleased to have other
seas also named, he would consent to it. She asked if he would consent to freedom of navigation
in America. Whitelocke told her he could not, and that the treaties of the Commonwealth were
comprehended within the bounds of Europe. She asked him what he thought the Protector would
do in case she demanded that liberty. He said, his Highness would give such an answer as should
consist with the interest of England, and show a due regard to her Majesty.

3. This third article she said she would agree unto, but she thought it necessary that a form
should be agreed upon for certificates and letters of safe-conduct, that ships might pass free
upon showing of them. Whitelocke said, he thought there would be no need of them, especially
if the peace with the Dutch were concluded. She replied, that if the war continued it would
be necessary.

4. She said she thought there would be no need of this article, and read another which she
herself had drawn in Latin to this effect--"That if any hereafter should commit treason, or
be rebels in one country, they should not be harboured in the other." Whitelocke said, the
article was already to that purpose, and he thought it necessary for the good of both nations.
She said, it would be too sharp against divers officers who had served her father and herself,
and were now settled in Sweden. Whitelocke offered that amendment which he before tendered
to the Chancellor, which when she read, she told Whitelocke, that might include all those men
whom she mentioned before. Whitelocke said, that, upon inquiry into it, he found not one excepted
by name from pardon. She said, for anything to be done hereafter, it was reasonable, and she
would consent to it. Whitelocke said, that if any hereafter should come into her country, who
were excepted from pardon, it was also reasonable to include them in this article.

5. She said that this and the second article would require further consideration; because if
she should consent thereunto, it would declare her breach of the neutrality which she had hitherto
kept. Whitelocke told her, if the peace were concluded with the Dutch, that neutrality would
be gone; and if the war continued, he presumed she would not stick to declare otherwise then
that neutrality. She said that was true, but she desired that this and the second article might
be let alone until the issue of the Dutch treaty.

6. The sixth article, she said, was reasonable.

7. She took exception to the words "bona à suis cujusque inimicis direpta," which, she said,
was a breach of her neutrality. To that Whitelocke answered as before upon the fifth article;
and she desired it might be passed over as the second and fifth articles, till the issue of
the Dutch treaty were known. She said she would desire the liberty of fishing for herrings.
Whitelocke told her that upon equal conditions he presumed his Highness would consent to that
which should be fit. She asked what conditions he would demand. Whitelocke said, those matters
of commerce would be better agreed upon with the advice of merchants.

8. The eighth article she said was equal.

9. There was no difference upon it.

10. She judged fit to be agreed upon.

11. She made some short observations, which by explanation Whitelocke cleared, and she agreed.

12. The like as upon the eleventh article.

13. To this article she read in Latin an objection to the proviso, and said it was reasonable
that, if they did break bulk, they should pay custom for so much only as they sold. Whitelocke
told her that objection showed that there were great men merchants in Sweden, and that the
objection was more in favour of the merchants than of herself. She said the merchants were
crafty indeed; and she did not much insist upon it.

14. The last article which Whitelocke had given in. To this she said it was fit that the men-of-war
that should come into the other ports should be to a number ascertained, to avoid suspicion.
Whitelocke said he would agree thereunto, with a caution, as in the first article, to be added:
if they should be driven by tempest, force, or necessity, then to be dispensed with.

