Besides this miscellaneous and polyglot audience inside the room, Helen soon became aware of
nearly as many more spectators and listeners outside the building crowded about the open windows.
The night was warm and still. The chapel had three windows on each side, and two at the rear
behind the platform, and at each opening dark faces of various nationalities grouped and peered
in with stoical or wondering interest. After the service had begun Helen suddenly became aware
of the presence of Van Shaw and his two friends. They had evidently finished their supper and
camp work and come back up the rock to be present at the chapel service but had been too late
to get inside. Helen felt Van Shaw's gaze directed constantly at herself. He had secured a
position close up to the second window from the platform. Helen again had that curious blending
of anger and exultation, of shame and gratified vanity as if there were forces at work in her
at war with one another tempting and antagonistic, attractive and repellant. But after one
look had been exchanged between her and Van Shaw she changed her position on the cot so that
she was partly hidden from him by a lamp which stood on one corner of the little parlour organ
of the platform.

Do you know of any greater heroes than the heroes of the cross? These are the undaunted, unterrified,
passion-filled souls of the earth. Masters personified the very spirit of aggressive, human,
loving Christianity. That strange room full of humanity would have appalled anyone but a real
soul-hungry man. What could anyone do with it? Century old vices and superstitions, brutal
contempt for anything but coarse pleasures, stolid indifference to God, measureless egotism
and age-long selfishness looked at him from the faces in the room and at the windows, from
"Iadaka" and the wrinkled Hopis, from the sentimental tourist girl and Van Shaw and his two
friends, from the dull visaged Apaches and the smirking traders, one of whom, to Master's own
knowledge, had for years been cheating the rug weavers all the way from Black Bear Canyon to
the Spanish Peaks.

And yet for some reason or a number of reasons, these humans were all here in front of him
and as he looked at them, Masters had soul hunger for them. He loved the multitude. And it
never entered his simple thought that anything else was possible but that in the long run they
would all have to go down before the conquering Carpenter's Son. Yes, even old "Iadaka." He
would some day see the light and he would walk and run all the way from Crested Buttes to the
Bottomless Pit and throw his da'aka in there and kneel at Jesus feet and call him Lord. Have
not the peoples of the earth been doing that all through the ages? Is not the miracle of regeneration
greatest of all miracles since Jesus lived? Is anything too hard for God?

So Masters's simple unswerving faith spoke that night. He told in the simplest possible way
the story of the cross. The old, old story that is changing the history of the world every
day. The old story that is not afraid of modern philosophy, nor antique prejudice nor even
the scoffing and sneering of Athens and the jeers of Vanity Fair and the complacent self satisfaction
of the modern pharisee.

Then he told Talavenka's story as he knew she would be willing to have it told. The Hopi girl
had sat on the front seat close to the platform. She was dressed in white and Helen wondered
with herself more than once if Talavenka was like other girls and really knew or understood
how marvellous was her black hair and her perfect coloured skin. And then almost as if someone
had asked her, Helen asked herself if Talavenka had ever known a lover and if the great romance
of life could come to her now that she had cut herself off from her people, and the swift runner
in the corn dance might no longer look for her to come out in the grey morning and with the
other maidens snatch from his arms the cool dew washed corn leaves and from his glowing eye
the message which is the same between youths and maidens the world over.

But Talavenka was conscious herself of no other thought here to-night in the mission chapel
at Oraibi. Masters spoke to her of her faith and asked her a few questions. The girl's face
shone with intelligent affection for her Redeemer and then the missionary rose and held the
baptismal bowl. Talavenka kneeled between him and Masters, Elijah Clifford with the tear in
his eye standing by Miss Gray as if naturally their common interest in Talavenka and knowledge
of her history made their mutual nearness a natural thing. Masters touched Talavenka's forehead
with the water and said in a voice that trembled for the first time that night, "Talavenka,
I baptise thee because of thy faith in the Lord Jesus, into the name of the Father, and of
the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen."

All through the service Masters had spoken through one or the other of the interpreters. In
turn the Hopis, the Navajos, and the Apaches had heard of Jesus and what he had said had been
listened to in some instances with evident eagerness. But the baptism of Talavenka impressed
all alike. Even the stolid imagination of the trader from Red Stone Tanks could understand
a little of the significance of what was going on there that night when the first Hopi maiden
was being baptised into a religion which her ancestors for centuries had known nothing about.

They sang "My Faith looks up to Thee," and after a prayer by Miss Gray, which was so tender
it made Helen cry, the meeting was over.

The people went out slowly. Those who knew Talavenka came up to see her. Her mother had sat
still as if graven there all through the evening. Suddenly she drew her shawl over her head
and rose and went out. Talavenka trembled as she watched her. "My mother!" was all she said.
It was a whole volume of longing for her redemption. Helen heard her and held out her hand
to her as she stood there near the little platform. And the two girls, one born in Christian
civilisation, nurtured in soft and comfortable ways, and the other who first drew breath in
a dark and filthy corner of a stone hut on this treeless rock, drew near together and the Christian
faith of each swiftly bridged over all the centuries of difference in matters of language,
customs and ceremonies. For is it not beautifully true that when Jesus enters a life it becomes
a part of all life everywhere, and there is no longer any Greek nor Jew, neither Barbarian,
Scythian, bondman or freeman, but all are one.

At that instant Van Shaw and his friends came down the aisle of the little room. They had crowded
in as soon as enough people had gone out. They came up now, greeting the other tourists, some
of whom they had met for the first time that afternoon.

Van Shaw, however, seemed especially anxious to reach the spot where Mrs. Douglas was standing
talking with one of the government teachers from Kean's Canyon. In passing one of the tourists
who was in the middle of the aisle, Van Shaw came face to face with Bauer, and to Bauer's tremendous
astonishment Van Shaw said at once in a threatening tone--which, however, he guarded so as
not to be heard by anyone else:

"I understand you have been meddling in my affairs. I consider it a mighty sneaking thing for
you to do and I want you to understand I won't------"

Bauer recovered his composure quickly as he interrupted Van Shaw.

"We can't very well discuss this matter in here."

"I want a word with Mrs. Douglas first," said Van Shaw.

But Bauer stepped in front of him and said:

"I think you had better have a word with me first."

Van Shaw looked at him uncertainly and then turned and walked out of the chapel. Bauer followed
him immediately.

The only light out on the rock was starlight. Darkness covered the blurred outline of Oraibi's
houses, with only an occasional point of light here and there, or the sudden glow from some
kiva as the opening reflected the fire at the bottom.

Van Shaw walked slowly as if by appointment out to the edge of the rock. When he stopped, Bauer
was close by him. In the mist far below a red glow marked the camp by the Oraibi Wash. The
night was very still and they were almost near enough to the chapel to distinguish the sound
of voices within.

CHAPTER XVI

"NOW that we are here," said Van Shaw, "I simply want to repeat what I said. You don't butt
into my affairs. Keep out. Coleman overheard a part of what you told Mrs. Douglas to-day while
you were near the cemetery rock. He was on the other side of it. What you said may be true,
but I consider it a sneaking thing and I won't stand for it."

Bauer was still. In the first place he had never faced such a situation and in the darkness
there he swiftly recurred to his talk with Mrs. Douglas. He had found her already prepared
for a part of what he had to say. Esther, sensitively intelligent in anything relating to Helen's
welfare, had not seen Van Shaw a moment before she felt a repulsion for him amounting to horror.
What Bauer told her from his own knowledge of Van Shaw's immoral life in Burrton roused all
her mother instincts to protect her child from a fate worse than death if she should marry
a man who had already fallen. She shared in the fullest degree with Bauer's deep fear that
Helen might, in her desire for the soft and beautiful things of wealth, risk her very life
itself, not because she knew she was doing it, but partly through ignorance of the real character
of the man who had the unblushing selfishness to ask a pure girl like Helen to accept him as
a husband, knowing himself to be what he was.

And Bauer, measuring in his slow but not stupid fashion all the consequences of his action
in warning Mrs. Douglas, knowing clearly the code of morals governing men like Van Shaw and
the wicked and unchristian standard of even so-called Christian society in condemning what
it called "telling on others," nevertheless went forward to do what seemed to him to be only
necessary in the name of common honour and decency.

The fact that Van Shaw had found out what he had done did not disturb him greatly. The only
thing that troubled him now was to hold himself sufficiently in hand. He had never hated anyone
in his life except this rich man's son and he had been slow to entertain that feeling for him.
But it had grown like a tropical plant within the last three days. And all the old Teutonic
rage latent in him was at the boiling point whenever he thought of Van Shaw and Helen together.
He said to himself there in the darkness that if there had been light enough to see Van Shaw's
sneering face he would have struck it. He remembered hearing his own father say once that one
of his ancestors at Lausbrachen had choked the life out of a family enemy, using only one hand
around the man's throat. He was so afraid of himself now that he involuntarily stepped back
away from Van Shaw and Van Shaw noted it and put the action down to cowardice or fear.

"Well, are you going to keep out of my affairs? Is it any business of yours whether I try to
make friends with the Douglases? Or perhaps------" he suddenly changed his tone as if a new
thought had broken in on his mind. "Look here, Bauer. Perhaps--well, maybe you don't understand------I
am going to marry Miss Douglas!"

"What!" Bauer cried out. He stepped nearer Van Shaw and Van Shaw stepped back, nearer the edge
of the rock.

"Well," Van Shaw laughed. "That is, as soon as she says yes, I am. My intentions are all right.
But--" and his accustomed mood quickly reasserted itself, "I warn you to keep out. Leave my
affairs alone. A fellow whose father and mother have done what yours have, isn't in the best
position to throw stones at other people."

Felix Bauer long years afterwards confessed to the dearest friend he had, that in that moment
he had the nearest approach to the thought of murder and hate he ever knew. But before he could
reply to Van Shaw's brutality he saw him stagger and reel and throw up his arms on the edge
of the rock. He heard him cry out, "For God's sake, Bauer!" and then he fell backward and disappeared
over the cliff.

For a second Bauer stood in his place smitten with horror. He was totally ignorant of the character
of the ground where Van Shaw had been standing and of what lay below. Evidently a shelving
piece of the rotten sandstone had broken off. How much of the edge was dangerous it was impossible
to tell there in the dark. He uttered one loud cry of "Help!" and then flung himself down full
length and dragged himself up to the place where Van Shaw had disappeared.

Just as he reached the edge, he heard fragments of the rock go rattling down and a sound as
of a heavy body falling somewhere. He peered over fearfully. He shouted again. He looked, straining
down, and it seemed to him that about twenty feet below he could see a huddled-up body lying
on a projecting ledge.

And then Felix Bauer did as brave or as foolhardy a thing as anyone ever did. It was partly
to punish himself for the murderous feeling he had entertained a moment before that he now
said, "Good God! I must save him now. Help me, God! Help me!"

He swung about on the edge of the ragged rock and let his feet down. He felt a projecting knob
of something, and then for a sickening second he paused and shouted again and then he let go,
hugging the face of the cliff. As he went down, he began to realise thankfully that the cliff
was rough and irregular. His hands were running blood, but he did not know it. As he felt resting
places for his feet, or anything for his hands to clutch, he sobbed, "God help me! God help me!"

He was down at last near enough to see that Van Shaw had fallen in a bent-over position on
a shelf of rock, a little more than wide enough to hold his body. He called to him but received
no answer. At last he was near enough to drop down on the ledge but as he was about to do so,
Van Shaw, with a groan of pain, turned over, and began to roll towards the edge.

Bauer desperately let go of everything, fell in a lump and snatched at Van Shaw. He caught
one arm and, panting, held onto it. The rest of Van Shaw's body was hanging over the side of
the ledge, and even in that critical moment Bauer recalled his first view of Oraibi rock as
the wagons had come up from the Oraibi Wash and the Tolchaco party had scanned through the
field glass the inaccessible sides. But he was on the opposite side now and how far it was
below the place where he now was he could not tell. Only he knew it must be a killing distance
down there in the dark that seemed to be reaching up black, heavy hands pulling at Van Shaw's
unconscious body, pulling at it harder and harder every second. He could feel himself slipping
down across the smooth ledge which offered no place for his sliding feet. He was using his
last strength, but every second it seemed impossible. His lungs were bursting. The red taste
of hot blood was in his mouth; he had a confused thought that he could let go of Van Shaw's
arm any time, but he did not let go. He was slipping, slipping down, pulled inch by inch by
those strong black hands of the dark down there, but still he clung and sobbed "God, save us!"

And then Elijah Clifford's voice called to him.

"I'm coming, Bauer, I'm coming."

The voice gave Felix one more ounce of strength. He exerted it, was conscious that someone
was down there with him farther off at the side of the ledge, then his hold loosened, everything
turned black and he did not know any more.

When he came to himself he was lying on one of the seats of the little chapel. Anxious white,
frightened faces were all about him. He was dimly aware of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas and Mr. and
Mrs. Masters and Elijah Clifford and Miss Gray and Helen and a group of tourists, one of whom
he heard Mr. Douglas call "doctor." He seemed to feel conscious of another body that was lying
on a bench near him, the body of Van Shaw, and as it stirred and groaned, he had an undefined
feeling of thankfulness that he was still alive and that no murder had been committed. And
then the hot taste of blood came into his mouth and he knew his hemorrhage had come on again.

He was too weak to talk and felt irritated at the hubbub about him. But cots were soon provided
and he and Van Shaw and Helen were carried down the trail to their tents, where a curious and
interested group soon gathered. Van Shaw had broken his shoulder and one leg. The doctor was
not certain about other and internal injuries. But Van Shaw was conscious and unless something
unforeseen took place, he was in a fair way to recover.

Everyone was excited and sleep was out of the question. So when everything possible had been
done for Bauer and Van Shaw, Elijah Clifford told what he knew of the accident and in his own
way related his share in the evening's adventures.

"You see, I had just lighted our lantern and had stepped out of the chapel to light our folks
down the trail when I heard Bauer's cry for help. I hadn't seen him go out and I didn't know
what he was doing out there, but it's always been a rule of the Mission when anyone yells 'help,'
to run in that direction. I fell over an old standard oil can and broke my lantern and my shins.
And I guess while I was down, Bauer was just getting over the edge of the rock.

"Say! Talk about recklessness, I take it Herr Felix Bauer has us all beat to a-run-down-the-trail-and-back.
You strangers from New York, how would you like to back off the top of the Flat Iron Building,
hang onto the coping with your fingers for a second and then let go, trusting to strike a window
ledge or something between the soles of your shoes and Madison Square? Well, that's just what
this tuberculosis son of Germany did, and if it doesn't knock all the snake traditions of this
old rock into piki bread crumbs then I have lost my way and forgotten where I started from."

"How about yourself?" asked one of the New York tourists. "Didn't you go down the same place?"

In the light of the camp fire it was not easy to see that Elijah Clifford actually blushed.
But he did, and Miss Gray sat near enough to note it. If Elijah Clifford had not been so embarrassed
by the New York man's question he might possibly, if he had been looking in Miss Gray's direction,
have seen a new look on her face. A look of shy Admiration that belongs to the border land
of another county called Affection, which is a near by state to another called Love. But Clifford
hastened to say:

"Oh, I had a light to go down with. When I fell, I broke the glass, but lucky the light did
not go out, so I could see where I was going. And when I got down, there was Bauer hanging
on to Van Shaw's arm in the most affectionate manner, as if he didn't want to have him leave
before his visit was over. I hadn't more than time to get my foot braced on the lantern or
something, when Bauer turned his friend over to me and for a minute or two he was on my hands,
but by that time the folks up on top had let down some ropes and we soon got everybody up all
right."

"Elijah," said Mr. Masters reproachfully, "why don't you go into the details? You know that
when Mr. Douglas and I climbed down on the ropes, you were almost over the edge with Van Shaw's
body."

"Well, that's the most slippery piece of rock I ever felt," said Clifford, and again he failed
to note a movement on the part of Miss Gray. When Masters had said that Clifford had almost
gone over the edge of the ledge with Van Shaw's body, she had put out the hand nearest Clifford,
as if to hold him back.

"Yes," said Clifford, "that ledge is smooth and no mistake. If any more folks are going to
fall over onto it, I think the Commissioners in Oraibi ought to drive some nails into it, or
else build a neat little concrete wall around it. There were times while I was down there thinking
it over, that I would have given considerable for a good, high English garden wall on the other
side of Van Shaw's body and me. A lantern is a poor thing to brace your feet on. It lacks staying
powers."

"Gentlemen," said Masters, turning to the group around the fire, "we have had a most wonderful
deliverance from a tragedy and it is due to the heroism of two of the bravest men that ever
lived. Elijah, don't interrupt me. The only way we can express our thanks is to go to the Heavenly
Father with them," and without a moment's pause as if it were the most natural thing in the
world, as it was with him, Masters broke into a prayer of thanksgiving so tender and eloquent
that Helen, whose cot had been placed in one of the tents with its front opening near the fire
where she could hear everything, bent her head over on her arms and cried.

She had been under a great nervous tension all day. And this last scene, coming as a most astonishing
climax to it all, affected her quick imagination. Another thing had added to all the rest,
at the memory of which she blushed as she hid her face in her hands during the quiet that followed
that prayer by Masters.

When the three cots, her own, Bauer's and Van Shaw's, had been brought down the trail, at one
place in a turn of the passage, while the bearers had to set the cots down to make some changes
in the way of carrying them, her cot had stood a moment by the side of Van Shaw's. And in that
moment, in the pale darkness, softened by the light of two or three lanterns, she had felt
her hand seized. She almost screamed. It was Van Shaw's hand that had reached out from his
blanket and for a moment he had almost crushed her fingers. She was not certain even now that
he had known what he was doing, or that it was more than a convulsive movement in his semi-conscious
condition. But the memory of it burned her cheeks like fire, and long after the last embers
of the camp fire had died into grey ashes, she lay there in the tent wide awake and sleepless.

After awhile she grew aware that her mother was sitting close by her. Esther had determined,
after what she had heard from Bauer, to have a talk with Helen at the first opportunity. The
accident to Van Shaw had changed her purpose somewhat, but she said to herself it had not changed
the facts in the case of Van Shaw's character, and the matter was still in the same condition
as before the accident happened. With that in mind, mother and daughter began to talk together
almost in a whisper, mindful of the thin tent walls and the nearness of the other members of
the party. Their precaution was, however, almost needless, for everyone in both camps was sound
asleep, and Van Shaw's own wagon and tent were at the farthest bounds of the camp, removed
from the rest so he would not be disturbed.

"I can't sleep, mother, it has been such an exciting day. Was there ever such a day; in my
life? And I think this last thing has shaken me. I never knew before what it meant to have
nerves. But I can't shut out the picture of that snake dance and that terrible cliff and------"

She hesitated and then feeling her mother's hand enfolding hers, she said, with the frankness
that had always been true of her confidences with her mother.

"There is another thing that has made the day different from any other day for me. I ought
to tell you, mother."

"Don't tell anything that belongs to you as your own."

"No. But this belongs to you. I cannot rest without telling."

Helen was glad the darkness hid her face. She told her mother plainly what Van Shaw had said
to her up there on the rock during the brief time they had been alone.

When Helen had apparently told all, Esther was silent. Helen began to feel frightened.

"Well, mother, you don't blame me, do you? Did I, have I--at any time given him any--any--encouragement
to think------"

"No, no, dear, I am sure you have not been unmaidenly. But you do not know all--as I do, as
others do, of this young man. I think you ought to know before you let your feeling, whatever
it is, go farther."

And in a direct, plain way, as she had always talked with her children, Esther told Helen what
Bauer had told her.

When she finished, the girl was silent so long, that her mother began to fear again, that deadening
fear she had experienced of late whenever she had come to realise the girl's infatuation for
the luxurious life. But Esther was not prepared for the question Helen asked when she broke
her long silence.

"How did you come to know all this, mother? How do you know it is true?"

It was Esther's turn to be silent. If she told Helen that her source of information was Bauer,
the girl might reasonably put it down as due to the jealousy of a rival, and so question its
reliability. As a matter of fact, at that very moment, Van Shaw's parting words were in Helen's
memory, "Don't believe all the stories you may hear about me."

"Mr. Bauer told me," said Esther slowly. "He knew the facts. They are known to others at Burrton.
His only motive was to save you the------"

"He might spare himself the trouble," said Helen, sharply. "I can't help thinking he is interfering
in my affairs and especially in Mr. Van Shaw's."

"He certainly interfered in his affairs when he saved his life to-night," said Esther quietly,
and the words smote Helen almost like a blow. For she realised for the first time that night
that her sympathy and imagination had been exercised almost wholly for Van Shaw, broken and
bruised in that awful fall over the cliff. "Saved his life!" Bauer had done that! After telling
her mother the story she had just heard! It was a most wonderful thing to do, as Elijah Clifford
had said in his narrative out there a little while ago. And yet, and yet, she heard herself
saying to her mother the next moment:

"It seems strange that Mr. Bauer should tell you this. It doesn't seem possible. I can't believe
it!"

At that, Esther could not suppress a heart cry so full of agony that Helen was terrified.

"Mother! mother!" was all she could say. But Esther quickly calmed herself.

"Helen, if this young man should be unworthy of you, could you give yourself to him simply
because he had money to offer?"

"No, no, mother, I am not wicked like that. You must not think so. I could not help questioning
Mr. Bauer's statements. He is not altogether------" she could not say the word "disinterested,"
and her mother said it for her.

"But he knows how hopeless his case is. He is not expecting to gain any favour by telling me
what he knows. Can you not see it is simply to save you from making the most awful mistake
a girl can make in all her life when she unknowingly marries such a man? Bauer never expects
to be a successful suitor. I do not believe you have any true measure of his feeling for you.
But he is willing to risk anything to spare you misery. Cannot you see that? What other motive
could he have? He is not a rival. The poor fellow told me frankly that he had given up all
hope for himself. It is pure friendship, and it is so rare and so beautiful a thing that you
cannot afford to trample it down or disbelieve the story he told me. Helen, if you should let
your admiration for money and its power take such a step as to encourage a man like Van Shaw,
it would break your mother's heart. But worse than that, it would break your own. Oh, you cannot,
you will not do such a thing."

What could Helen say to that? And what less could Esther say to her? Let the careless mothers
in America answer--the mothers who never talk frankly with their daughters about these things,
and the careless daughters who never take their mothers into their confidence. How many unhappy
marriages would never occur if mothers did their duty and daughters listened to and heeded
the best friend they have on earth.

When Mrs. Douglas had finally fallen asleep, Helen still remained broad awake. Things had been
said in the heart talk that made it impossible for her to compose herself to sleep. She could
no longer doubt the truthfulness of Bauer or his clear motive, and strange tumult arose in
her thought over the statement her mother had made about his abandonment of any thought of
her as her suitor. The fact that he had expressed such a sentiment to her mother made Helen
a little angry. Why should he give up all hope so easily--why--what was she thinking? She said
to herself she did not want men to be cowards, but surely Felix Bauer was not a coward. A man
who would go over a cliff like that did not deserve to have a timid girl like her call him
a coward. Only------

And in the midst of all her other feelings she could not altogether shut out the sight of Van
Shaw, broken and bruised as he had lain in agony there on the seat in the little chapel and
she could not, even after all her mother had said, quite dismiss him from her thought. Her
cheek glowed, as she raised the question in her imagination, of money and its fascinating power.
Were all young men of wealth like Van Shaw? Would it never be possible for her to marry wealth
and virtue together? And again there was that strange commingling of shame and exultation as
she realised what a power she possessed to attract even such an one as Van Shaw, and try as
hard as she would she did not drive out the scene of his declaration that morning. At any rate,
it was genuine. Let him be what he had been, might she not awaken all the latent good in his
nature and save him--her mother's ideas were very strict and serious. They were perhaps puritanical.
But after all------

So she restlessly went back and forth in her argument and only fell asleep towards morning,
her heart and mind wearied with the whole thing. Before she fell asleep she resolved to have
a talk with Miss Gray and make her tell what she knew. She said to herself she would at least
not dismiss Van Shaw entirely until she knew even more than her mother had been able to tell
her about him.

But before the opportunity came for Miss Gray's confidence, several unexpected events occurred
that made Helen wonder if she were in a land of enchantment. After what had already become
a part of her history in this strange land, she might be pardoned, if, with her highly romantic
temperament, she felt excited to an unusual degree.

In the first place, Mr. Masters had word, that next morning after the snake dance, that he
was needed imperatively at Tolchaco on account of the illness of Ansa, old Begwoettins' grandchild.
This was Miss Gray's favourite, and she was eager to return to the mission with Mr. and Mrs.
Masters as soon as possible. Accordingly the fastest team and the lightest outfit were pressed
into service and a short time after breakfast Mr. and Mrs. Masters and Miss Gray were ready
to take the road by the Oraibi Wash, hoping to make Tolchaco by the next afternoon. Elijah
Clifford wanted to go but it seemed necessary for him to remain with Mr. and Mrs. Douglas and
help pack up for the return trip. Besides, two of the chuck wagon teams had broken their hobbles
in the night and wandered off into the "indefinite nowhere," as Clifford said, and until they
were found and brought back, it was impossible for the rest of the party to hitch in and leave
Oraibi.

As if Providence had come to the special help of Walter, just before Masters had finished his
preparations to leave, the Navajo runner who had brought word of Ansa's illness went silently
to Walter and handed him a letter that had reached Tolchaco post office the day the runner
started. It had a special delivery stamp on it to indicate the desire of the sender for haste,
and after reading, Walter rushed over to his father who was helping Masters hitch up the traces.

"Listen to this, father!" he said in great excitement, while Mrs. Masters and Miss Gray were
getting into the wagon and saying good-bye to Mrs. Douglas and Helen. "Anderson writes that
Blake, the assistant foreman, is sick, and if I can come on and help him work over the installation
of those new Reimark dynamos before term opens, he can promise me a good place as second assistant
in the coil room this winter. I know more about the Reimark than Anderson himself and it will
be a fine chance for me. He says I can have full pay for summer term work. I shall have to
start back to Burrton by the first, anyway, and if Mr. Masters can take me along now, I can
get over to Canyon Diablo or Winslow in time to make the California express and get into Burrton
next week."

Masters gave a quick consent.

"We can take four as well as three. Come on."

Walter rushed his few camp things into his suit case, stowed it under the seat, kissed his
mother and Helen, shook hands with Bauer, who was able to sit up on his cot in the near by
tent, and climbed into the wagon by the side of Mr. Masters.

Elijah Clifford was not present when all this occurred, and when he came into camp two hours
later trailing the fugitive horses after him, Masters's wagon was a black speck down by the
Oraibi Wash.

Bauer told him of Walter's unexpected return to Tolchaco with Mr. Masters and Miss Gray.

"Yes, I told you," said Clifford. And for a moment Bauer thought he could detect a note of
pensive regret in his words. "I told you Walter was lost. It's wonderful what providences there
are for some people. That professor in that school couldn't have figured on getting that letter
here at a more real serviceable opportunity for Walter, if he had been a real first class magician.
And did you say there was a special delivery stamp on the letter? That beats everything worse
than nothing. That's the first time, I reckon, in five hundred years that a special delivery
stamp was ever used on a Tolchaco letter. And just think of the way things cogged into the
right openings to get that letter there by special messenger. Well, well, I wouldn't mind being
in Walter's place myself if I didn't feel so necessary here. But Mr. Douglas can't drive these
mustangs back to Tolchaco."

He winked at Bauer good naturedly and hastened to inquire into his condition.

"I'm black and blue," said Bauer, "but otherwise, sehr gut. This is a miraculous climate. My
hemorrhage is slight, and I don't believe it will recur. I have no symptoms. I don't want you
to delay the return on my account." Then he added after a pause, "How is Van Shaw?"

"That fellow," said Elijah, "has missed breaking his neck by a miracle. His collar bone was
fractured clear up to the last bone in his spinal column. Both of his legs were broken below
the knee. He must have struck right on his toes when he fell, and doubled up on himself. He
can't move out of here for some while. But I understand his mother has sent a wire from Winslow
for Mr. Van Shaw to come on from Pittsburgh. She is pretty well upset by the whole business.
She tried to thank me for saving her son's life and I think she was too hysterical and excited
to understand me when I told her you were the party. She hinted that her husband would probably
deed a railroad or two to me for saving her precious son's life. If they send the railroad
out here I'll turn it over to you. I don't want it."

"But you did save him," said Bauer with some feeling.

"Well, no, I reckon I just preserved him. You had him saved, and I just took what you handed
over and passed it up. But, what were you doing out there on the edge of that rock last night,
anyhow? I forgot to ask when I was down there on the ledge and never thought of it again until
just now."

Bauer was spared the embarrassment of trying to satisfy Clifford's good natured curiosity by
the arrival into the tent of Mrs. Douglas, accompanied by the tourist doctor who had offered
his services to both Bauer and Van Shaw and had fortunately had enough of his repair kit with
him to do all that could be done outside of a well appointed hospital.

He pronounced Bauer to be in good condition and anticipated no recurrence of the flow for him
if he were careful. Van Shaw was in a more serious case. He was suffering from a nervous shock
and would have to stay where he was for some time. A room had been hired in a small stone house
belonging to the government farmer, and Van Shaw was as comfortable as he could be under the
circumstances. But he was delirious a part of the time and the doctor evidently believed his
condition to be serious, if not critical.

Helen received the news of all this from her mother when she came back from Bauer's tent. She
was much shocked at the account Mrs. Douglas gave. And again, as during the night, she found
herself dwelling more over Van Shaw's suffering than Bauer's heroism.

The doctor advised two days' rest for Bauer before starting back to Tolchaco, so Clifford delayed
the preparations for their start and during that time Talavenka came to see Helen, and Helen,
with her accustomed enthusiasm, suggested to her in Esther's presence, a plan for going east
and completing her education.

Talavenka listened with perfect equanimity to Helen's glowing account of the opportunities
for education in the girls' school at Milton. Then she said with more than a quiet manner,--it
was a poise of all the faculties, that a white person seldom possesses:

"You are kind, but I ought to stay here with my mother for awhile. She needs me."

"But would she not be willing to have you go away for a little while just to gain more power
for your people? Mother, would you be willing to have Talavenka stay with us this winter?"

"I have already talked with your father and Mr. and Mrs. Masters about Talavenka and we are
ready to take her into our home and treat her like one of our own circle," said Esther, who
was chairman of the missionary committee in her church and a great enthusiast in all forms
of missionary work.

Talavenka turned her black eyes to Mrs. Douglas. Her face shone. The light of her Christian
faith illuminated her countenance like a gleam of sunshine. It was so marked that both Mrs.
Douglas and Helen were startled by it.

"I do not know how to thank you. But my mother needs me this winter. I must stay with her."

She said it so gently, with such a complete sense of joyousness and an absence of all thought
of renunciation, that Helen was profoundly moved. There was no possibility of changing her
mind or insisting. There was something about Talavenka's simple statement that was distinctly
final.

When the girl rose to go, Helen noticed the reddish brown water jar that Talavenka had dropped
by the tent opening when she had entered.

"Yes," she said, as she put the jar on her back after passing the cord through the ears of
it, "I am going down to the spring. How glad I am to be so well. Jesus helps me to bear all
things."

