Transcriber's note:

  The dieresis is transcribed by a preceding hyphen.  "Employe" is
  replaced by "employee".  The author's capitalization and spelling
  are followed when consistent, but probable mistakes of the typesetter
  have been corrected.

  The right brackets (}) in the heading of quoted letters
  represent a single bracket grouping those lines in the book, which
  indicates a typeset heading on the stationery used.

  LoC call number:  E664.S57 1968

JOHN SHERMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF FORTY YEARS IN THE HOUSE, SENATE AND CABINET. AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

VOLUME I.

ILLUSTRATED WITH PORTRAITS, FAC-SIMILE LETTERS, SCENES, ETC.

GREENWOOD PRESS, PUBLISHERS NEW YORK  1968

Copyright, 1895, By John Sherman

SHERMAN BOOK.

First Greenwood reprinting, 1968

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS catalogue card number:  68-28647

Printed in the United States of America

PREFACE

These Recollections grew out of a long deferred purpose to publish a selection of my speeches
on public questions, but in collecting them it became manifest that they should be accompanied
or preceded by a statement of the circumstances that attended their delivery. The attempt to
furnish such a statement led to a review of the chief events of my public life, which covers
the period extending from 1854 to the present time.  The sectional trouble that preceded the
Civil War, the war itself with all its attendant horrors and sacrifices, the abolition of slavery,
the reconstruction measures, and the vast and unexampled progress of the republic in growth
and development since the war, presented a topic worthy of a better historian than I am.  Still,
as my life was interwoven with these events, I concluded that it was better that I state my
recollection of what I saw or heard or did in those stirring times rather than what I said.
Whether this conclusion was a wise one the reader must judge.  Egotism is a natural trait of
mankind.  If it is exhibited in a moderate degree we pardon it with a smile; if it is excessive
we condemn it as a weakness.  The life of one man is but an atom, but if it is connected with
great events it shares in their dignity and importance.  Influenced by this reasoning I concluded
to postpone the publication of my speeches except so far as they are quoted or described in
these memoirs.

When I entered upon their preparation the question arose whether the book to be written was
to be of my life, including ancestry and boyhood, or to be confined to the financial history
of the United States with which I was mainly identified.  This was settled by the publishers,
who were more interested in the number of copies they could sell than in the finances of the
United States.

Every man has a theory of finance of his own, and is indifferent to any other.  At best the
subject is a dry one.  Still, the problem of providing money to carry on the expensive operations
of a great war, and to provide for the payment of the vast debt created during the war, was
next in importance to the conduct of armies, and those who were engaged in solving this problem
were as much soldiers as the men who were carrying muskets or commanding armies.  As one of
these I feel it my duty to present the measures adopted and to claim for them such merit as
they deserve.

These volumes do contain the true history of the chief financial measures of the United States
government during the past forty years.  My hope is that those who read them will be able to
correct the wild delusions of many honest citizens who became infected with the "greenback
craze," or the "free coinage of silver."

My chief regret is that the limit of these volumes did not permit me to extend my narrative
to the memorable battles and marches of the Civil War, nor to a more general notice of my associates
who distinguished themselves in civil life.  The omission of military narrative is admirably
compensated by the memoirs of the great commanders on either side, and better yet by the vast
collection and publication, by the United States, of the "Records of the Rebellion."  The attempt
to include in these volumes my estimate of distinguished men still living who participated
in the events narrated would greatly extend them and might lead to injustice.

One of the fortunate results of the Civil War has been to diminish the sectional prejudice
that previously existed both in the north and in the south.  I would not check this tendency,
but will gladly contribute in every way possible to a hearty union of the people in all sections
of our country, not only in matters of government, but also in ties of good will, mutual respect
and fraternity.  The existence of slavery in some of the states was the cause of the war, and
its abolition was the most important result of the war. So great a change naturally led to
disorder and violence where slavery had existed, but this condition, it is believed, is passing
away.  Therefore I have not entered in detail into the measures adopted as the result of the
abolition of slavery.

This preface is hardly necessary, but I comply with the general custom of adding at the beginning,
instead of the end, an apology for writing a book.  This seems to me to be the chief object
of a preface, and I add to it an appeal for the kindly consideration of the readers of these
volumes.

  John Sherman.
  Mansfield, Ohio, August 30, 1895.

ILLUSTRATIONS VOLUME I.

John Sherman Dedham Street, Dedham, Essex County, England Birthplace of John Sherman at Lancaster,
Ohio Mr. Sherman at the Age of Nineteen Charles T. Sherman First Court House at Mansfield,
Ohio Mr. Sherman's First Home in Mansfield, Ohio Kansas Investigating Committee Mr. Sherman
at the Age of Thirty-five Mr. Sherman's First Residence in Washington, D. C. Senator Justin
S. Morrill Abraham Lincoln General W. T. Sherman Three Ohio Governors--Dennison, Tod, Brough
Colfax, Douglas, Fessenden, Ewing (Group.) Edwin M. Stanton U. S. Grant United States Senators--43rd
Congress Mr. Sherman's Present Residence at Mansfield, Ohio Library of Mr. Sherman's Mansfield
Residence

AUTOGRAPH LETTERS VOLUME I.

Certificate of Admission to Practice in Supreme Court, January 21,
  1852
T. Ewing, December 31, 1848
Wm. H. Seward, September 20, 1852
Certificate of Election as United States Representative, December
  9, 1854
Justin S. Morrill, April 1, 1861
W. B. Allison, March 23, 1861
John A. Dix, February 6, 1861
Simon Cameron, November 14, 1861
Edwin M. Stanton, December 7, 1862
Horace Greeley, February 7, 1865
Thurlow Weed, February 28, 1866
Schuyler Colfax, February 17, 1868
Vote on the Impeachment of Andrew Johnson, May 16, and 26, 1868
U. S. Grant, June 14, 1871
M. H. Carpenter, July 20, 1871
Roscoe Conkling, October 13, 1871
J. A. Garfield, September 25, 1874
R. B. Hayes, June 19, 1876
R. B. Hayes, February 19, 1877
Cyrus W. Field, March 6, 1877
Wm. M. Evarts, August 30, 1877

TABLE OF CONTENTS. VOLUME I.

CHAPTER I. ANCESTRY OF THE SHERMAN FAMILY. Family Name is of Saxon Origin--"Conquer Death by
Virtue"--Arrival of Rev. John Sherman at Boston in 1634--General Sherman's Reply to an English
Sexton--Career of Daniel Sherman--My First Visit to Woodbury--"Sherman's Tannery"--Anecdote
of "Uncle Dan"--Sketch of My Father and Mother--Address to Enlisting Soldiers--General Reese's
Account of My Father's Career--Religion of the Sherman Family--My Belief.

CHAPTER II. MY BOYHOOD DAYS AND EARLY LIFE. Born at Lancaster, Ohio, May 10, 1823--Death of
My Father and Its Effect on Our Family--Early Days at School--A Dead Sheep in the Schoolroom--Lesson
in Sunday Sport--Some of My Characteristics--My Attack on the Schoolmaster--Robbing an Orchard--A
Rodman at Fourteen and My Experiences While Surveying--Debates at Beverly--Early Use of Liquor--First
Visit to Mansfield in 1839--The Famous Campaign of 1840--I Begin the Study of Law.

CHAPTER III. OHIO, ITS HISTORY AND RESOURCES. Occupation by the Indians--Washington's Expedition
to the Head of the Ohio River--Commencement of the History of the State--Topography, Characteristics,
etc., in 1787--Arrival of the First Pioneers--The Treaty of Greenville--Census of 1802 Showed
a Population of 45,028 Persons--Occupation of the "Connecticut Reserve"--Era of Internal Improvement--Value
of Manufactures in 1890--Vast Resources of the Buckeye State--Love of the "Ohio Man" for His
Native State.

CHAPTER IV. ADMISSION TO THE BAR AND EARLY POLITICAL LIFE. Law Partnership with my Brother
Charles--Change in Methods of Court Practice--Obtaining the Right of Way for a Railroad--Excitement
of the Mexican War and its Effect on the Country--My First Visit to Washington--At a Banquet
with Daniel Webster--New York Fifty Years Ago--Marriage with Margaret Cecilia Stewart--Beginning
of My Political Life--Belief in the Doctrine of Protection--Democratic and Whig Conventions
of 1852--The Slavery Question--My Election to Congress in 1854.

CHAPTER V. EARLY DAYS IN CONGRESS. My First Speech in the House--Struggle for the Possession
of Kansas --Appointed as a Member of the Kansas Investigating Committee--The Invasion of March
30, 1855--Exciting Scenes in the Second District of Kansas--Similar Violence in Other Territorial
Districts--Return and Report of the Committee--No Relief Afforded the People of Kansas --Men
of Distinction in the 34th Congress--Long Intimacy with Schuyler Colfax.

CHAPTER VI. BIRTH OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY. The Name Formally Adopted at Jackson, Michigan,
in 1854--Nomination of John C. Fremont at Philadelphia--Democratic Convention Nominates James
Buchanan--Effect of the Latter's Election on the North--My Views Concerning President Pierce
and His Administration--French Spoilation Claims--First Year of Buchanan's Administration--Dred
Scott Case Decision by Supreme Court--The Slavery Question Once More an Issue in Congress--Douglas'
Opposition to the Lecompton Scheme--Turning Point of the Slavery Controversy.

CHAPTER VII. RECOLLECTIONS OF THE FINANCIAL PANIC OF 1857. Its Effect on the State Banks--My
Maiden Speech in Congress on National Finances--Appointed a Member of the Committee on Naval
Affairs--Investigation of the Navy Department and its Results--Trip to Europe with Mrs. Sherman--We
Visit Bracklin's Bridge, Made Famous by Sir Walter Scott--Ireland and the Irish--I Pay a Visit
to Parliament and Obtain Ready Admission--Notable Places in Paris Viewed With Senator Sumner--The
Battlefield of Magenta--Return Home.

CHAPTER VIII. EXCITING SCENES IN CONGRESS. I am Elected for the Third Term--Invasion of Virginia
by John Brown --His Trial and Execution--Spirited Contest for the Speakership-- Discussion
over Helper's "Impending Crisis"--Angry Controversies and Threats of Violence in the House--Within
Three Votes of Election as Speaker--My Reply to Clark's Attack--Withdrawal of my Name and Election
of Mr. Pennington--Made Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means--President Buchanan Objects
to Being "Investigated"-- Adoption of the Morrill Tariff Act--Views Upon the Tariff Question
--My Colleagues.

CHAPTER IX. LAST DAYS OF THE BUCHANAN ADMINISTRATION. My First Appearance Before a New York
Audience--Lincoln's Nomination at the Chicago Convention--I Engage Actively in the Presidential
Canvass--Making Speeches for Lincoln--My Letter to Philadelphia Citizens--Acts of Secession
by the Southern States--How the South was Equipped by the Secretary of the Navy--Buchanan's
Strange Doctrine Regarding State Control by the General Government--Schemes "To Save the Country"--My
Reply to Mr. Pendleton on the Condition of the Impending Revolution--The Ohio Delegation in
the 36th Congress --Retrospection.

CHAPTER X. THE BEGINNING OF LINCOLN'S FIRST ADMINISTRATION. Arrival of the President-Elect
at Washington--Impressiveness of His Inaugural Address--I am Elected Senator from Ohio to Succeed
Salmon P. Chase--Letters Written to and Received from My Brother William Tecumseh--His Arrival
at Washington--A Dark Period in the History of the Country--Letter to General Sherman on the
Attack Upon Fort Sumter--Departure for Mansfield to Encourage Enlistments --Ohio Regiments
Reviewed by the President--General McLaughlin Complimented--My Visit to Ex-President Buchanan--Meeting
Between My Brother and Colonel George H. Thomas.

CHAPTER XI. SPECIAL SESSION OF CONGRESS TO PROVIDE FOR THE WAR. Condition of the Treasury Immediately
Preceding the War--Not Enough Money on Hand to Pay Members of Congress--Value of Fractional
Silver of Earlier Coinage--Largely Increased Revenues an Urgent Necessity --Lincoln's Message
and Appeal to the People--Issue of New Treasury Notes and Bonds--Union Troops on the Potomac--Battle
of Bull Run-- Organization of the "Sherman Brigade"--The President's Timely Aid --Personnel
of the Brigade.

CHAPTER XII. PASSAGE OF THE LEGAL TENDER ACT IN 1862. My Interview with Lincoln About Ohio
Appointments--Governmental Expenses Now Aggregating Nearly $2,000,000 Daily--Secretary Chase's
Annual Report to Congress in December, 1861--Treasury Notes a Legal Tender in Payment of Public
and Private Debts--Beneficial Results from the Passage of the Bill--The War Not a Question
of Men, but of Money--Proposed Organization of National Banks--Bank Bills Not Taxed--Local
Banks and Their Absorption by the Government--The 1862 Issue of $150,000,000 in "Greenbacks"--Legal
Tender Act a Turning Point in Our Financial History--Compensation of Officers of the Government.

CHAPTER XIII. ABOLISHMENT OF THE STATE BANKS. Measures Introduced to Tax Them out of Existence--Arguments
That Induced Congress to Deprive Them of the Power to Issue Their Bills as Money--Bill to Provide
a National Currency--Why Congress Authorized an Issue of $400,000,000, of United States Notes--Issue
of 5-20 and 10-40 Bonds to Help to Carry on the War--High Rates of Interest Paid--Secretary
Chase's Able Management of the Public Debt--Our Internal Revenue System--Repeal of the Income
Tax Law--My Views on the Taxability of Incomes.

CHAPTER XIV. LINCOLN'S EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION. Slavery in the District of Columbia Abolished--Law
Goes Into Effect on April 10, 1862--Beginning of the End of Slavery--Military Measures in Congress
to Carry on the War--Response to the President's Call --Beneficial Effects of the Confiscation
Act--Visits to Soldiers' Camps--Robert S. Granger as a Cook--How I Came to Purchase a Washington
Residence--Increase of Compensation to Senators and Members and Its Effect--Excitement in Ohio
over Vallandigham's Arrest--News of the Fall of Vicksburg and Defeat of Lee at Gettysburg --John
Brough Elected Governor of Ohio--Its Effect on the State.

CHAPTER XV. A MEMORABLE SESSION OF CONGRESS. Dark Period of the War--Effect of the President's
Proclamation-- Revenue Bill Enacted Increasing Internal Taxes and Adding Many New Objects of
Taxation--Additional Bonds Issued--General Prosperity in the North Following the Passage of
New Financial Measures--Aid for the Union Pacific Railroad Company--Land Grants to the Northern
Pacific--13th Amendment to the Constitution--Resignation of Secretary Chase--Anecdote of Governor
Tod of Ohio--Nomination of William P. Fessenden to Succeed Chase--The Latter Made Chief Justice--Lincoln's
Second Nomination--Effect of Vallandigham's Resolution--General Sherman's March to the Sea--Second
Session of the 38th Congress.

CHAPTER XVI. ASSASSINATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Johnson's Maudlin Stump Speech in the Senate--Inauguration
of Lincoln for the Second Term--My Trip to the South--Paying off a Church Debt--Meetings to
Celebrate the Success of the Union Army-- News of the Death of Lincoln--I Attend the Funeral
Services--General Johnston's Surrender to General Sherman--Controversy with Secretary Stanton
Over the Event--Review of 65,000 Troops in Washington--Care of the Old Soldiers--Annual Pension
List of $150,000,000--I am Re- elected to the Senate--The Wade-Davis Bill--Johnson's Treatment
of Public Men--His Veto of the Civil Rights Bill--Reorganization of the Rebel States and Their
Final Restoration to the Union.

CHAPTER XVII. INDEBTEDNESS OF THE UNITED STATES IN 1865. Organization of the Greenback Party--Total
Debt on October 31st amounts to $2,805,549,437.55--Secretary McCulloch's Desire to Convert
All United States Notes into Interest Bearing Bonds--My Discussion with Senator Fessenden Over
the Finance Committee's Bill --Too Great Powers Conferred on the Secretary of the Treasury--His
Desire to Retire $10,000,000 of United States Notes Each Month-- Growth of the Greenback Party--The
Secretary's Powers to Reduce the Currency by Retiring or Canceling United States Notes is Suspended--Bill
to Reduce Taxes and Provide Internal Revenue--My Trip to Laramie and Other Western Forts with
General Sherman-- Beginning of the Department of Agriculture.

CHAPTER XVIII. THREE MONTHS IN EUROPE. Short Session of Congress Convened March 4, 1867--I
Become Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Succeeding Senator Fessenden--Departure for Europe--Winning
a Wager from a Sea Captain--Congressman Kasson's Pistol--Under Surveillance by English Officers--Impressions
of John Bright, Disraeli and Other Prominent Englishmen--Visit to France, Belgium, Holland
and Germany--An Audience with Bismarck--His Sympathy with the Union Cause--Wonders of the Paris
Exposition--Life in Paris--Presented to the Emperor Napoleon III and the Empress Eugenie --A
Dinner at the Tuileries--My Return Home--International Money Commission in Session at Paris--Correspondence
with Commissioner Ruggles--His Report--Failure to Unify the Coinage of Nations-- Relative Value
of Gold and Silver.

CHAPTER XIX. IMPEACHMENT OF ANDREW JOHNSON. Judiciary Committee's Resolution Fails of Adoption
by a Vote of 57 Yeas to 108 Nays--Johnson's Attempt to Remove Secretary Stanton and Create
a New Office for General Sherman--Correspondence on the Subject--Report of the Committee on
Impeachment, and Other Matters Pertaining to the Appointment of Lorenzo Thomas--Impeachment
Resolution Passed by the House by a Vote of 126 Yeas to 47 Nays-- Johnson's Trial by the Senate--Acquittal
of the President by a Vote of 35 Guilty to 19 Not Guilty--Why I Favored Conviction--General
Schofield Becomes Secretary of War--"Tenure of Office Act."

CHAPTER XX. THE FORTIETH CONGRESS. Legislation During the Two Years--Further Reduction of the
Currency by the Secretary Prohibited--Report of the Committee of Conference --Bill for Refunding
the National Debt--Amounted to $2,639,382,572.68 on December 1, 1867--Resumption of Specie
Payments Recommended-- Refunding Bill in the Senate--Change in My Views--Debate Participated
in by Nearly Every Senator--Why the Bill Failed to Become a Law-- Breach Between Congress and
the President Paralyzes Legislation-- Nomination and Election of Grant for President--His Correspondence
with General Sherman.

CHAPTER XXI. BEGINNING OF GRANT'S ADMINISTRATION. His Arrival at Washington in 1864 to Take
Command of the Armies of the United States--Inaugural Address as President--"An Act to Strengthen
the Public Credit"--Becomes a Law on March 19, 1869-- Formation of the President's Cabinet--Fifteenth
Amendment to the Constitution--Bill to Fund the Public Debt and Aid in the Resumption of Specie
Payments--Bill Finally Agreed to by the House and Senate --A Redemption Stipulation Omitted--Reduction
of the Public Debt-- Problem of Advancing United States Notes to Par with Coin.

CHAPTER XXII. OUR COINAGE BEFORE AND AFTER THE WAR. But Little Coin in Circulation in 1869--General
Use of Spanish Pieces--No Mention of the Dollar Piece in the Act of 1853--Free Circulation
of Gold After the 1853 Act--No Truth in the "Demonetization" Charge--Account of the Bill Revising
the Laws Relative to the Mint, Assay Offices and Coinage of the United States--Why the Dollar
was Dropped from the Coins--Then Known Only as a Coin for the Foreign Market--Establishment
of the "Trade Dollar"--A Legal Tender for Only Five Dollars--Repeated Attempts to Have Congress
Pass a Free Coinage Act--How It Would Affect Us--Controversy Between Senator Sumner and Secretary
Fish.

CHAPTER XXIII. SOME EVENTS IN MY PRIVATE LIFE. Feuds and Jealousies During Grant's Administration--Attack
on Me by the Cincinnati "Enquirer"--Reply and Statement Regarding My Worldly Possessions--I
Am Elected to the Senate for the Third Term --Trip to the Pacific with Colonel Scott and Party--Visit
to the Yosemite Valley--San Diego in 1872--Return via Carson City and Salt Lake--We call on
Brigham Young--Arrival Home to Enter Into the Greeley-Grant Canvass--Election of General Grant
for the Second Term.

CHAPTER XXIV. THE PANIC OF 1873 AND ITS RESULTS. Failure of Jay Cooke and Co.--Wild Schemes
"for the Relief of the People"--Congress Called Upon for Help--Finance Committee's Report for
the Redemption of United States Notes in Coin--Extracts from my Speech in Favor of the Report--Bill
to Fix the Amount of United States Notes--Finally Passed by the Senate and House--Vetoed by
President Grant and Failure to Pass Over His Objection--General Effect Throughout the Country
of the Struggle for Resumption-- Imperative Necessity for Providing Some Measure of Relief.

CHAPTER XXV. BILL FOR THE RESUMPTION OF SPECIE PAYMENTS. Decline in Value of Paper Money--Meeting
of Congress in December, 1874--Senate Committee of Eleven to Formulate a Bill to Advance United
States Notes to Par in Coin--Widely Differing Views of the Members--Redemption of Fractional
Currency Readily Agreed to--Other Sections Finally Adopted--Means to Prepare for and Maintain
Resumption --Report of the Bill by the Committee on Finance--Its Passage by the Senate by a
Vote of 32 to 14--Full Text of the Measure and an Explanation of What It Was Expected to Accomplish--Approval
by the House and the President.

CHAPTER XXVI. RESUMPTION ACT RECEIVED WITH DISFAVOR. It Is Not Well Received by Those Who Wished
Immediate Resumption of Specie Payments--Letter to "The Financier" in Reply to a Charge That
It Was a "Political Trick," etc.--The Ohio Canvass of 1875-- Finance Resolutions in the Democratic
and Republican Platforms--R. B. Hayes and Myself Talk in Favor of Resumption--My Recommendation
of Him for President--A Democrat Elected as Speaker of the House-- The Senate Still Republican--My
Speech in Support of Specie Payments Made March 6, 1876--What the Financial Policy of the Government
Should Be.

CHAPTER XXVII. MY CONFIDENCE IN THE SUCCESS OF RESUMPTION. Tendency of Democratic Members of
Both Houses to Exaggerate the Evil Times--Debate Over the Bill to Provide for Issuing Silver
Coin in Place of Fractional Currency--The Coinage Laws of the United States and Other Countries--Joint
Resolution for the Issue of Silver Coins--The "Trade Dollar" Declared Not to Be a Legal Tender--My
Views on the Free Coinage of Silver--Bill to Provide for the Completion of the Washington Monument--Resolution
Written by Me on the 100th Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence--Unanimously Passed
in a Day by Both Houses--Completion of the Structure Under the Act.

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE HAYES-TILDEN PRESIDENTIAL CONTEST. Nomination of R. B. Hayes for President--His
Fitness for the Responsible Office--Political Shrewdness of Samuel J. Tilden, His Opponent--I
Enter Actively Into the Canvass in Ohio and Other States --Frauds in the South--Requested by
General Grant to Go to New Orleans and Witness the Canvassing of the Vote of Louisiana-- Departure
for the South--Personnel of the Republican and Democratic "Visitors"--Report of the Returning
Board--My Letter to Governor Hayes from New Orleans--President Grant's Last Message to Congress
--Letter from President Hayes--Request to Become his Secretary of the Treasury.

CHAPTER XXIX. I BEGIN MY DUTIES AS SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY. Legislative Training of Great
Advantage to Me in My New Position-- Loan Contract in Force When I Took the Portfolio--Appointment
of Charles F. Conant as Funding Agent of the Treasury Department in London--Redeeming Called
Bonds--Sale of Four Per Cent. Bonds Instead of Four and a Half Per Cents.--Popularity of the
New Loan--Great Saving in Interest--On a Tour of Inspection Along the Northern Atlantic Coast--Value
of Information Received on This Trip--Effect of the Baltimore and Pittsburg Railroad Strikes
in 1877 Upon Our Public Credit.

CHAPTER XXX. POLICY OF THE HAYES ADMINISTRATION. Reception at My Home in Mansfield--Given by
Friends Irrespective of Party--Introduced by My Old Friend and Partner, Henry C. Hedges --I
Reply by Giving a Résumé of the Contests in South Carolina and Louisiana to Decide Who Was
Governor--Positions Taken by Presidents Grant and Hayes in These Contests--My Plans to Secure
the Resumption of Specie Payments--Effects of a Depreciated Currency--Duties of the Secretary
of the Treasury--Two Modes of Resuming--My Mansfield Speech Printed Throughout the Country
and in England--Letters to Stanley Matthews and General Robinson--Our Defeat in Ohio--An Extra
Session of Congress--Bills Introduced to Repeal the Act Providing for the Resumption of Specie
Payments--They All Fail of Passage-- Popular Subscription of Bonds All Paid for.

The family name of Sherman is, no doubt, of Saxon origin.  It is very common along the Rhine,
and in different parts of the German Empire.  It is there written Shearmann or Schurmann. 
I found it in Frankfort and Berlin.  The English Shermans lived chiefly in Essex and Suffolk
counties near the east coast, and in London. The name appears frequently in local records.
One Sherman was executed for taking the unsuccessful side in a civil war.  It was not until
the beginning of the 16th century that any of the name assumed the arms, crest, and motto justified
by their pride, property or standing.  The motto taken, "Conquer Death by Virtue," is a rather
meaningless phrase.  It is modest enough, and indicates a religious turn of mind.  Nearly every
family of the name furnished a preacher.  A few members of it attained the dignity of knighthood.
A greater number became landed property-holders, and more were engaged in trade in London.
Sir Henry Sherman was one of the executors of the will of Lord Stanley, Earl of Derby, May
23, 1521. William Sherman, Esq., purchased Knightston in the time of Henry VIII; and a monument
to him is in Ottery St. Mary, dated 1542.  As a rule the family belonged to the middle class
and were engaged in active occupations, earning their own bread, with a strong sense of their
rights and liberties as Englishmen.

The principal family of the name in the 16th century were the Shermans of Yaxley in the county
of Suffolk, a full detail of which is given in Davy's Collections of that county.  Edmond Sherman,
my ancestor, was a member of this family.  He was born in 1585 and was married to Judith Angier,
May 26, 1611.  He resided at Dedham, Essex county, England, then a place of some importance.
He was a manufacturer of cloth, a man of means and high standing.  He was a Puritan, with all
the faults and virtues of a sectary.  He resisted ship-money and the tax unlawfully imposed
on tonnage and poundage. He had the misfortune to live at the time when Charles I undertook
to dispense with Parliament, and to impose unlawful taxes and burdens upon the people of England,
and when the privileges of the nobility were enforced with great severity by judges dependent
upon the crown.  He had three sons, John, baptized on the 4th of January, 1614; Edmond, baptized
June 18, 1616, and Samuel, baptized July 12, 1618.  He had a nephew, known as "Captain John,"
somewhat older than his sons, who was an active man in 1634.

At this time the migration to Boston, caused chiefly by the tyranny of Charles I, was in active
operation.  Hume, in his history, says:

"The Puritans, restrained in England, shipped themselves off for America, and laid there the
foundations of a government which possessed all the liberty, both civil and religious, of which
they found themselves bereaved in their native country.  But their enemies, unwilling that
they should anywhere enjoy ease and contentment, and dreading, perhaps, the dangerous consequences
of so disaffected a colony, prevailed on the king to issue a proclamation, debarring those
devotees access, even into those inhospitable deserts.  Eight ships, lying in the Thames, and
ready to sail, were detained by order of the council; and in there were embarked Sir Arthur
Hazelrig, John Hampden, John Pym, and Oliver Cromwell, who had resolved, forever, to abandon
their native country, and fly to the other extremity of the globe; where they might enjoy lectures
and discourses, of any length or form, which pleased them.  The king had afterward full leisure
to repent this exercise of authority."

It appears that, influenced the same motives, Edmond Sherman determined to remove his family,
with his nephew, "Captain John," to Boston.  In one statement made in respect to them it is
said that the father and his three sons and nephew embarked for Boston, but this is doubtful.
It is certain, however, that his son, Rev. John Sherman and his son Samuel, and his nephew
"Captain John," did go to Boston in 1634.  It is quite as certain that if they were accompanied
by their father and their brother Edmond, that the two latter returned again to Dedham in 1636.
Edmond Sherman, senior, lived and died at Dedham.  One of his descendants, Rev. Henry Beers
Sherman, a few years ago visited Dedham and there found one of the church windows of stained
glass bearing the initials of Edmond Sherman as having been his gift, and the record shows
that one of the buttresses of the church was erected at his expense.  Mr. Henry Beers Sherman
there saw the pupils of a free school, endowed by Edmond Sherman and still in operation, attending
the church in procession.

When in London, in the summer of 1889, I concluded to make a visit to "the graves of my ancestors."
I examined Black's Universal Atlas to locate Dedham, but it was not to be found.  I made inquiries,
but could discover no one who knew anything about Dedham, and concluded there was no such place,
although I had often read of it.  I was compelled, therefore, to give up my visit.

Senator Hoar, a descendant, through his mother, of Roger Sherman of Revolutionary fame, was
more fortunate or more persistent than I, for he subsequently found Dedham and verified the
accounts we had of our common ancestor, and procured photographs, copies of which I have, of
the monument of Edmond Sherman, of the church near which he was buried, and of the handsome
school building, still called "the Sherman Library," that he had left by his will for the youth
of Dedham, with a sufficient annuity to support it.  Dedham is but two or three miles from
Manningtree, a more modern town on the line of railroad, which has substantially obscured the
ancient and decayed village of Dedham.

The sexton of this church wrote General Sherman soon after he had become distinguished as a
military leader, calling his attention to the neglected monument of his ancestor, Edmond Sherman,
in the churchyard, and asking a contribution for its repair.  The general sent a reply to the
effect that, as his ancestor in England had reposed in peace under a monument for more than
two centuries, while some of his more recent ancestors lay in unmarked graves, he thought it
better to contribute to monuments for them here and leave to his English cousins the care of
the monuments of their common ancestors in England.  This letter is highly prized by the sexton
and has been shown to visitors, among others to Senator Hoar, as a characteristic memento of
General Sherman.

Captain John Sherman, "Captain John," soon after his arrival in Boston, settled in Watertown,
Mass., where he married and had a large family of children.  Among his descendants was Roger
Sherman of the Revolution, by far the most distinguished man of the name. He had the good fortune
to contribute to and sign the three most important papers of American history, the "Address
to the King," the "Declaration of Independence" and the "Constitution of the United States."
Among other descendants of Captain John Sherman were Hon. Roger Minot Sherman, of New Haven,
a nephew of Roger Sherman, a distinguished lawyer and a leading participant in the Hartford
Convention.  William M. Evarts, George F. Hoar and Chauncey M. Depew are descendants of Roger
Sherman or of his brother.

Rev. John Sherman, the eldest son of Edmond Sherman, was born on the 26th of December, 1613,
at Dedham, England.  He graduated at Immanuel College, Cambridge, left college a Puritan and
came over to America in 1634, as above stated.  He preached his first sermon at Watertown,
Massachusetts, under a tree, soon after his arrival in this country.  In a few weeks he went
to New Haven, Connecticut, and preached in several places, but finally settled at Watertown,
where he had a large family of children.  His numerous descendants are well distributed throughout
the United States, but most of them in the State of New York.

Samuel Sherman, the youngest son of Edmond Sherman, is the ancestor of the family to which
I belong.  At the age of sixteen years he came with his brother, Rev. John and his cousin "Captain
John," in April, 1634, in the ship "Elizabeth" from Ipswich, and arrived in Boston in June,
and for a time settled in Watertown, Massachusetts. He afterward moved to Weathersfield, Connecticut,
thence to Stamford and thence to Stratford.

In Cothron's "History of Ancient Woodbury" there are found full details of the life of Samuel
Sherman and his numerous descendants to the present generation.  Of Samuel Sherman Mr. Cothron
says:

"He was from Dedham, Essex county, England, came to this country in 1634, and previous to the
date of the new plantation, at Woodbury, had been a leading man in the colony of Connecticut.
He had assisted in the settlement of several other towns in the colony, and now undertook the
same for Woodbury.  He had been a member of the Court of Assistants, or Upper House of the
General Court, and Supreme Judicial Tribunal, for five or six years from 1663, and held various
offices and appointments of honor and trust.  He is referred to in ancient deeds and documents
as the 'Worshipful Mr. Sherman.'  In 1676 he was one of the commission for Stratford and Woodbury."

The order of succession of the descendants of Samuel Sherman, the ancestor of the family to
which I belong, is as follows:

1.  John Sherman, the fifth child of Samuel Sherman, was born at Stratford, Conn., February
8, 1650.  He early moved to Woodbury. He died December 13, 1730.

2.  John Sherman 2nd, the fifth child of John, was baptized June, 1687.  He married Hachaliah
Preston, July 22, 1714.  He died 1727.

3.  Daniel Sherman, the third child of John 2nd, was born August 14, 1721, and died July 2, 1799.

4.  Taylor Sherman, the sixth child of Daniel, was born in 1758. He married Elizabeth Stoddard
in 1787, and died in Connecticut May 15, 1815.  His widow died at Mansfield, Ohio, August 1, 1848.

5.  Charles Robert Sherman, the eldest child of Taylor, was born September 26, 1788, married
Mary Hoyt, of Norwalk, Conn., May 8, 1810.  He died on the 24th of June, 1829.  His widow died
at Mansfield, Ohio, September 23, 1852.  The had eleven children, six sons and five daughters,
all of whom lived to maturity.  I am the eighth child of this family.

The names and dates of the birth of the children of my parents are as follows:

  Charles Taylor Sherman . . . . . February 3, 1811.
  Mary Elizabeth Sherman . . . . . April 21, 1812.
  James Sherman  . . . . . . . . . December 10, 1814.
  Amelia Sherman . . . . . . . . . February 11, 1816.
  Julia Ann Sherman  . . . . . . . July 24, 1818.
  William Tecumseh Sherman . . . . February 8, 1820.
  Lampson Parker Sherman . . . . . October 31, 1821.
  John Sherman . . . . . . . . . . May 10, 1823.
  Susan Denman Sherman . . . . . . October 10, 1825.
  Hoyt Sherman . . . . . . . . . . November 1, 1827.
  Fanny Beecher Sherman  . . . . . May 3, 1829.

Mr. Cothron, in his "History of Ancient Woodbury," after referring to Samuel Sherman, makes
this reference to his son John:

"The fame of his son John is particularly the property of the town. He was distinguished, not
only at home, but also in the colony. He was Justice of the Quorum, or Associate County Judge,
for forty- four years from 1684; a Representative of the town for seventeen sessions, and Speaker
of the Lower House in May and October, 1711, and Captain in the Militia, a high honor in those
days.  He was the first Judge of Probate for the District of Woodbury, from its organization
in 1719, for nine years.  The District them comprised all of Litchfield county, and Woodbury
in New Haven county.  He was an assistant, or member of the Upper House, for ten years from 1713."

John Sherman 2nd, does not seem to have taken any active part in public affairs, and died before
his father, at the age of forty. His son Daniel, who lived to the age of eighty, covering the
period of the Indian wars, the French Canadian war, and the war of the Revolution, took an
active part in all the great events of that period.  Mr. Cothron says of him:

"Judge Daniel Sherman was perhaps the most distinguished man that had arisen in the town previous
to his day.  He was a descendant of Samuel Sherman, of Stratford, Connecticut, who emigrated
to this country from England, in company with his brother, Rev. John Sherman, and his nephew,
Captain John Sherman, ancestor of Hon. Roger Sherman. He was a Justice of the Quorum for twenty-five
years, and Judge of the Litchfield County Court five years from 1786.  For sixteen years he
was Probate Clerk for the District of Woodbury, and Judge of that District thirty-seven years.
He represented his native town in the General Assembly sixty-five semi-annual sessions, retaining
the unbounded confidence of his fellow citizens.  This was by far the longest period of time
anyone has ever represented the town.  He was a man of commanding powers of mind, of sterling
integrity, and every way qualified for the various public trusts confided to this care.  He
died at a good old age, full of honor, and was followed by the affectionate recollections of
the inhabitants of the town, among whom he had so long lived."

No portion of the people of the United States took a more decisive part in the Revolutionary
contest of 1775 than those of Connecticut. The people of Woodbury caught the prevailing spirit,
and, as early as September 20, 1774, had a public meeting and made patriotic resolves, and
entered into associations for defense.  Daniel Sherman, then fifty-four years old, presided
at this meeting and was appointed president of the association of the delegates.  Among other
duties they were to perform, was to ascertain whether any persons within the limits of the
town were hostile to the objects of the association, and in that case they, using the spelling
of the time, were to

"Cause the truth of the case to be published in the Gazette, to the End that all such foes
to ye Rights of British americai may be publikly known and universially Comtemned as enemies
to american Liberty and thensforth we Do bind ourselves to break off all Dealings With Such
Persons and also will all Persons in other Towns and Citys who shall be found Guilty as above
Expressed, and that it shall be ye Duty and Business of the sd Comtee to Receive and Communicate
all Such intelligence as they shall judge to be conducive to ye Peace and Tranquility of this
and the Neighboring Colonies; this meeting presents their most thankfull acknowledgments to
those truly Honourable and Worthy Gentlemen members of ye Congress who have Shewn themselves
able advocates of the civil and Religious liberty of the american Colonys.

"Voated, that the doings of this meeting be Recorded by the Town Clerk, and a Copy thereof
be forthwith sent to one of the printers of the Connecticut Journal to be published accordingly.
The Whole of the above Written as voated in said Meeting."

He was a member of the "Committee of Inspection" of thirty, appointed at the beginning of the
war.  On the 12th of April, 1784, they resolved as follows:

"Voted, that those persons who joined the enemies of the United States in the course of the
late Civil war of what description soever are denyed a residence in this Town from this date
until the Genll Assembly shall grant them full liberty for that purpose."

At a meeting held on the 3d of April, 1777, at which Daniel Sherman was the Moderator, it was:

"Voated, that Each Able Bodied Effective man, who hath or shall voluntarily Inlist into the
Continental Army in such way and Manner toward makeing the Quota of this Town for the space
of Three years, or during the war shall be Intitled to Receive out of the publick Treasury
of the Town the sum of Twenty Shillings Lawful money, as an Addition to Each month's Wages
he shall continue in the service, to be paid to him, or to his order, at the End of Each six
month's service."

This was kept up during the war.  Provision was made for a Council of Safety, appointed annually
by the Assembly, of from nine to fourteen of the most distinguished men in the state, to aid
the governor in the organization and conduct of troops, of which Daniel Sherman, his cousin
Roger Sherman, Benjamin Huntington, and other distinguished men were members.  This committee
was frequently in session and the most responsible, arduous and difficult details of the service
were confided to its care.  It was shown that during the war Daniel Sherman contributed provisions
to soldier's families to the value of 2,718 pounds, 7 shillings and 8 pence.  It would seem
from the following anecdote told of Daniel Sherman, that some of his neighbors thought he had
enjoyed his full share of honor:

"Mr. Sherman was a representative at the May session of the General Assembly in 1791, and,
it is related, desired to be elected to the October session of the same year, in order to make
the full number of thirty-three years that he would have then represented the town. But at
the time of the election for the October session, the Moderator of the meeting happened to
think that he had his share of honors, and when he made proclamation that the ballot-box was
open for the reception of votes, remarked in a loud tone of voice, 'Gentlemen, the box is now
open; you will please to bring in your ballots for him whom you will have for your first representative
--Honorable Daniel Sherman, of course!  This simple incident gave a change to the popular current,
and on counting the votes it was found that Honorable Nathaniel Smith was elected, instead
of Mr. Sherman."

Taylor Sherman, my grandfather, the son of Judge Daniel Sherman, was born in 1758.  He was
married in 1787 to Elizabeth Stoddard and removed to Norwalk, Connecticut, where he lived during
the remainder of his life.  He died on the 15th of May, 1815.

My grandmother was born at Woodbury, Connecticut, on the 14th of June, 1767.  She lived to
a good old age and died at Mansfield, Ohio, on the 1st of August, 1848.  She was a remarkable
woman in many respects, a Puritan of the strictest faith, of large mold, being nearly six feet
tall, and well proportioned.  She was a granddaughter of Rev. Anthony Stoddard, a man whose
history strikingly presents the peculiar characteristics of life in Connecticut during the
18th century.  The contract between the church and town of Woodbury and Mr. Stoddard, for employment
as pastor, commences as follows:

"At a lawfull Towns-meeting ye 13th of August, 1700, in ordr to ye settling of ye Reverend
mr. Anthony Stoddard amongst us, in ye work of ye ministry.  And for his encouragement so to do;

"It was voted and agreed to allow him, as Maytenance in ye Work of ye Ministry, seventy pounds
per Anuu, in provision pay, or to his Satisfaction, in Case of Faylure of provision pay.  By
provision pay, is intended, whet, pease, indian corn & pork, proportionally: Also fire wood:

"We do also promise, to build him an house here in Woodberry of known Demensions; yt is to
say, the Carpetners work & Masons work; hee providing nayles and glass; by building ye sd house
is intended, doors, floures, fitting up and playstering and partitions, finishing it, as also
a well."

Then follow many other mutual stipulations, to which was added a supplemental agreement as follows:

"Since wch time at a Lawfull Towns-meeting ye 25th of Novembr, 1700, It was Voted and agreedyt
ye abovesd specices for mr Stoddard's yearly maytenance bee levyed at ye prices following:
Wheat at 4s 6d per Bush: pork at 3d pr lb:  Indian Corn 2s 6d per Bush:  Pease three shillings
per Bushll:  And these prices for this yeare ye Town will not vary from for ye future Exterordinary
providences interposing being exceapted.

"Recorded from ye originalls pr Jon Minor, Recorder, March, 1700- 1701."

Under this contract Mr. Stoddard served his congregation for sixty years, and died September
7, 1760, in his eighty-third year, and the sixty-first of his ministry.  He was educated at
Harvard College and graduated in 1679.  Mr. Cothron, in 1872, says of him:

"He was at the same time minister, lawyer and physician.  Like many of the early ministers
of the colony, he prepared himself for the practice of physic, that he might administer to
the wants of the body, as well as those of the mind.  In this capacity he was often called.
The only person the author has found who ever saw him, was Deacon Amos Squire, of Roxbury,
who died two or three years ago, aged ninety-nine, and who recollected having seen him when
a lad about eight years of age, while on a visit in this capacity to his father, who had received
a severe wound from an ax.  He had also done what other ministers did not, and that was to
perfect himself in legal knowledge."

It must be remembered that the pastor of a church in those days was in quite a different position
than one now, when the constitution guarantees to every one liberty to worship God according
to the dictates of his conscience.  The Congregational mode of worship was then adopted and
established by law in Connecticut, but it was provided that all sober orthodox persons dissenting
therefrom should, on representing it to the General Court, be allowed to worship in their own
way.  Such a privilege, however, was regarded with distrust.  Our fathers who desired religious
freedom and periled all for it in the wilderness, had not anticipated that they would speedily
have an opportunity to extend that toleration to others which in the fatherland they had in
vain sought for themselves. The town church was, therefore, in substance, the only church,
and the preacher was the autocrat of the place.

Mr. Stoddard was not only a preacher, lawyer and doctor, but he was also a fighter.  In 1707
an expedition was made by the French and Indians against New England, which created general
alarm throughout the country.  Woodbury was exposed to the raids made by the Indians, and suspicions
were entertained that the neighboring tribes would join the French and Indians in their foray.
During the continuance of this war, on one Sabbath evening, after the conclusion of the services
at church, while he was walking in his garden, he discovered an Indian skulking among the surrounding
trees and bushes.  Apparently without noticing the movements of the Indian, he contrived to
re-enter his house, and obtained his gun.  After playing the same game of skulking with his
adversary for a while, Mr. Stoddard got a fair view of him, discharged his piece, and the Indian
fell among the bushes.  He dared not investigate farther that night, but having quietly given
the alarm, the inhabitants sought their palisaded houses for the night.  Early in the morning
he discovered another red foe, in the vicinity of his companion, and whom he also laid low
with his musket.  By this time the people had assembled, and after the country was scoured
in all directions for several hours, and no other savages were found, the alarm subsided.

Before leaving my Woodbury ancestors, who resided there nearly one hundred and fifty years,
I wish to relate my first visit to Woodbury. I was at West Point, as one of the Board of Visitors,
one Saturday in June, 1873, when I concluded to respond to an invitation I had received, and
go to Woodbury and spend the Sabbath there.  I did so and found, as I had anticipated, beautiful
valleys with picturesque hills, a rural air and a quiet, peaceful, Sunday outlook.  I knew
no one except Hon. William Cothron, and him only by correspondence. I believe he was superintendent
of the Sunday school; but, at all events, upon my presenting myself, and stating my desire
to explore Woodbury, he kindly consented, and went with me.  I located many of the most interesting
objects in the town.  The large, well-built stone house of Daniel Sherman was still standing,
made after the usual pattern, two stories high with a lean-to roof in the rear, and with low
ceilings.  He had lived there during most of his active life, and had entertained Washington
and Lafayette, when they at different times visited the French vessels at Newport.  The fortified
house of Rev. Anthony Stoddard was in a good state of preservation, with its projecting eaves
and loop holes for defense.  We visited the old church and graveyard, and drove southward to
what were called the "Sherman settlements."  Evidently the comparatively few families in Woodbury
were in a state of comfort as they were found to be living in good houses and drawing, no doubt,
an income from investments in the great and growing West.

On that quiet Sabbath day the village of Woodbury recalled to me Mr. John H. Bryant's description
of his native village:

  "There lies a village in a peaceful vale,
   With sloping hills and waving woods around,
   Fenced from the blasts.  There never ruder gale
   Bows the tall grass that covers all the ground;
   And planted shrubs are there, and cherish'd flowers,
   And a bright verdure born of gentle showers."

Subsequently I again visited Woodbury with General Sherman.  Mr. Cothron was still there and
was very kind to us.  It seemed to me that the old place had run down a little, that the walks
were not so clean, the grass was not as fresh in the fields, and evidently the graveyards had
lost some of their monuments, but a prominent one had been erected in the churchyard to Rev.
Anthony Stoddard, to which General Sherman had contributed.  We heard of no one of our name
in Woodbury, but when General Sherman saw an old sign, "Sherman's Tannery," he said that he
believed he had at last found some tangible evidence of the residence of our fathers in Woodbury;
that Sherman had been a good honest tanner no doubt, and that was the most that could be said
of any one.

As I have said, my grandfather, Taylor Sherman, and his wife, Elizabeth Stoddard, moved from
Woodbury to Norwalk, where he practiced his profession as a lawyer.  He attained a good position
as such, and for many years he was a Judge of Probate.  He became early associated with the
proprietors of the half million acres of land lying in the western part of the Western Reserve
in Ohio, called "Sufferers' Land."

In the period immediately before and after the adoption of the constitution several of the
states laid claim to western lands, founded upon grants by James I, the chief of which were
the claims of Virginia to the region north and west of the Ohio River, and the claim of Connecticut
to all the land lying west of Pennsylvania to the South Seas and north of the 41st parallel
of latitude. These claims were finally compromised by Congress granting to Virginia all the
land lying between the Scioto and the Miami Rivers in Ohio, and to Connecticut the land in
Ohio north of the 41st parallel, extending westward of Pennsylvania one hundred and twenty miles.

During the Revolutionary War the coasts of Connecticut had been subjected to several raids
by the British and Tories, and several towns, including Norwalk, Greenwich, Fairfield, Danbury,
New Haven and New London, had been burned.  Indemnity had been proposed, but the state was
in no condition to pay such losses.

In the year 1800, the State of Connecticut granted to her citizens, who were sufferers by fire
during the Revolutionary War, a half million acres of land, lying within the State of Ohio,
which was to be taken off the west part of what was called the "Western Connecticut Reserve,"
now embraced in the counties of Huron and Erie.  By an act of the legislature of the State
of Ohio, passed in 1803, the sufferers were incorporated under the name of "The proprietors
of the half million acres of land, lying south of Lake Erie, called 'Sufferers' Land.'"  The
affairs of this company, by that act, were to be managed by a Board of Directors which, among
other things, was authorized to locate and survey said half million acres of land, and partition
it among the different claimants.

On the first day of November, 1805, Taylor Sherman was appointed by the Board of Directors
an agent to survey the above tract of land, and, on the 16th day of December, of the same year,
he entered into a contract with John McLane and James Clarke, Jr., to survey, or have surveyed,
said tract.  Taylor Sherman visited the fire lands, and fully performed the duty imposed upon
him.  He also purchased a considerable tract of this land in Sherman township, Huron county,
which was the foundation of the little fortune which he left to his widow and children.

The whole of the Western Reserve, especially the western part of it, was at that time in the
possession of the Indians, who soon afterwards engaged in open warfare with the white settlers.
Surveys, especially along the shores of Lake Erie, were extremely difficult, owing to extensive
bayous and swamps, but the surveys were made where practicable, and where lines could not be
run, straight lines were drawn on the map, and the contents estimated.  This gave rise to long
litigation, one case being reported in the 13th Volume of Ohio Supreme Court Reports.

The gift of Connecticut to the sufferers was a wise and liberal one, and after the War of 1812
it led to the migration to the counties of Huron and Erie of a great number of persons from
the towns of Norwalk, Greenwich, Danbury, New Haven and New London. The losses of the sufferers
in these different towns had been carefully examined and stated, and the sufferers were allowed
land in proportion to their losses.  The formidable list of these sufferers is a striking proof
of the savage and destructive manner in which the Revolutionary War was conducted by the British
troops. The whole Western Reserve at the beginning of the 19th century was a wilderness, with
not a single white inhabitant.  The census of 1820, however, showed that it then contained
a population of 58,608, while that of 1890 showed a population of 678,561.  Of these a larger
number and proportion were descendants of Connecticut parents than are most inhabitants of
that state.  The industries, commerce, wealth and intelligence of this region are not excelled
by any community of the same size anywhere else in the country.

As an illustration of the condition of this region in 1812, it may be worth while to here record
a truthful anecdote of Daniel Sherman, the son of Taylor Sherman, and whom we knew as "Uncle
Dan."  In the spring of 1812, when twenty-two years of age, he was sent by his father to make
improvements on his land in Huron county, by building a log cabin and opening a clearing. 
He had with him a hired man of the name of John Chapman, who was sent to Milan, twelve miles
away, to get a grist of corn ground, it being the nearest and only mill in the county.  Either
on the way there, or while returning, Chapman was killed by the Indians.  Uncle Dan did not
hear of this until the next day, when, with a knapsack on his back, he started for Mansfield,
forty miles away.  For thirty miles there was a dense and unbroken forest without a settler.
He arrived at a blockhouse, six miles from Mansfield, but concluded that was not strong enough
to protect him.  He then went to Mansfield, where they had a better blockhouse, but he heard
so many stories of Indians that he did not feel safe there, and walked thence to his brother's
house in Lancaster, about seventy-five miles away, through an almost continuous forest.

In November, 1813, Taylor Sherman was appointed, by President Madison, Collector of Internal
Revenue for the Second District of Connecticut.  He enjoyed the office but a short time and
died, as already stated, on the 15th day of May, 1815.

A sketch of my mother and father will throw some light upon the lives of their children, but
it is a delicate task to write of one's parents.  As I was but six years old when my father
died I have only a dim recollection of him, but materials for an interesting sketch of his
brief but active career are abundant.  I know of no citizen of Ohio of whom more anecdotes
have been told, or whose general and social life has been more highly appreciated, or whose
popularity has been more marked, than that of my father.  During the early years of my life
at the bar I met many of the older lawyers, contemporary with my father, and they all spoke
of him in the highest praise, and generally had some incident to tell of him that happened
in the days of the "Stirrup Court."

Charles Robert Sherman, my father, was born in Norwalk, Connecticut, September 26, 1788, the
eldest son of Judge Taylor Sherman and Elizabeth Stoddard.  He received the best educational
advantages of his day, and, when fully prepared, commenced the study of law in the associated
offices of his father and the Hon. Judge Chapman. He was admitted to the bar in 1810, and on
May 8, of that year, married Mary Hoyt, also of Norwalk, who had grown up with him from childhood.
He could not go into the northern part where his father's land lay, as it was then roamed over
by hostile Indians, but followed the usual route to Ohio by Pittsburg and Wheeling to Zanesville.
He located at Lancaster, but returned to Norwalk, Connecticut, in the fall of 1810.  In 1811
he returned to Lancaster, accompanied by his wife.  Ohio was then a frontier state, and in
large portions of its territory an unbroken wilderness.  The way to it from their New England
home was far and weary, beset with many hardships and exposed to great dangers.  My father
and mother were obliged to journey the greater part of this distance on horseback, alternately
carrying their infant child upon a pillow before them.  I only advert to these incidents as
they illustrate the self-reliant character of the man, and the brave, confiding trust of his
wife. The little boy they carried upon the pillow, then their only son, was Charles Taylor Sherman.

Soon after their arrival in Lancaster my father took a leading part in the measures of defense
against the British and Indians.  I find in an old and weather-beaten newspaper of Lancaster,
Ohio, called the "Independent Press," that on the 16th of April, 1812, at a meeting of the
first regiment of the first brigade of the third division of the militia of Ohio, assembled
at Lancaster for the purpose of raising a company of volunteers to march immediately to Detroit,
my father, then major of that regiment, made a very effective address to the regiment, the
result of which was the voluntary enlistment of the company required from Fairfield county.
He was then twenty-four years of age, and as this address is short, and is the best evidence
of his mental qualities, and of the standing he had so early attained among the hardy settlers
of that section, mostly from Pennsylvania, I here insert a portion of it:

"Fellow Soldiers:--The crisis has arrived in which your country calls upon you, her constitutional
guardians, to rally round her standard and to defend her rights and liberties--you are this
day assembled to declare whether you will voluntarily answer this call or not.  Fellow soldiers,
the general of brigade and at whose command and in whose name I now address you, cannot help
but believe that in this regiment which he once had the honor, personally, to command, those
choice spirits are to be found, that will not for a moment hesitate to come forward and give
the answer to their country's call.

"You are not called upon to guard a tyrant's throne, or to enslave a nation of freemen, neither
are your exertions required to redress a fancied wrong, or to revenge a supposed insult; but
you are called upon to preserve your own dwellings from the flames--your families from destruction.
Neither are you requested to go unprotected nor unprovided;--everything that the patriot soldier
could possibly wish will be furnished you by the government--food complete and sufficient for
the necessities or conveniences of life--compensation for your clothing,--arms of the best
quality will be placed in your hands, which will be generously given you if you do, as I know
you will, your duty.

"Should you chance to be disabled in the service, a pension will be given you that will enable
you to live in comfort and in ease; or should the fortune of war number you with those brave
and gallant patriots that fearlessly poured out their life's blood upon the heights of Bunker,
the plains of Saratoga, or at the siege of Yorktown--your families shall not be left unprotected
or unprovided; a generous and faithful government has promised that one hundred and sixty acres
of land shall be given to your heirs, the more than means of existence, the means of every
comfort that can render that existence desirable.

"These, then, fellow soldiers, are the terms upon which sixty-four of you are requested to
draw your swords, shoulder your arms and march to Detroit to defend the frontiers of your own
territory. And from these columns are there not more than this small number that would rush
upon even certain death at their country's call?

"The services required of you will not be arduous--'tis not that you should invade the territory
of a distant enemy--'tis not that you should march far from your homes to fight battles in
which you are not, and which you do not feel yourselves, interested; but it is to prevent the
hostile foot of a foe from invading your territory --it is to guard the sacred altar of your
liberties, cemented by the blood of your fathers, from the profanation of a tyrant's polluting
touch--it is to guard your dwellings, your friends, your families, your all, from the desolating
warfare of a fell savage foe--it is that the midnight and sleeping couch of our infants may
not be awakened to death by the tremendous yell of an Indian warwhoop --it is that the gray
hairs of our fathers may not become the bloody trophies of a cruel and insidious foe.  Cruelty
and a thirst for blood are the inmates of an Indian's bosom, and in the neighborhood of two
contending powers they are never peaceful.  If the strong hand of power does not bend them
down they will raise the tomahawk and bare the scalping knife for deeds of blood and horror:
The purity of female innocence, the decrepitude of age, the tenderness of infancy afford no
security against the murderous steel of a hostile Indian: to guard against the probable incursions
of bands of these murderers, I will not call them by the dignified name of warriors, are you
called upon to arm: and who in such a cause would refuse to march or to bleed?  And who would
refuse to protect the scattered settlements on our frontiers--the humble cottage and its peaceful
inhabitants?--Who would refuse to guard our fields from desolation, our villages from destruction,
or our towns from ruin? --None, in whom there is a spark of patriot valor.

"But, fellow soldiers, you may be called upon the meet the legions of Great Britain; every
appearance indicates a state of approaching hostilities--year after year has insult been added
to insult--injury has followed injury with rapid strides, and every breeze comes laden with
its tale of wrongs, and while we have borne their injuries and their insults our government
has endeavored, but in vain, to reconcile our differences by amicable negotiation.

"The cup of our wrongs is full, and the voice of an indignant people demands redress and revenge
by every means in our power; 'tis that voice that calls upon you to arm and meet the hosts
of England.

"Do you fear the event of the contest?  Call but to mind the period of '76, without a government,
without friends, without armies, without men, without money, our fathers dared to resist her
aggressions upon our liberties; she determined to enslave us, and a hardy band of freemen resolved
on death rather than slavery, encountered and conquered her boasted legions, established our
independence and left it as their richest legacy for us to maintain: and do we, their sons,
possessing all the advantages that we could wish, all that they were deprived of, do we fear
the contest when half the world is confederate against her?  Where is the spirit of our fathers
that urged them to battle and to victory?  Is there no latent spark of patriot ardor that the
wrongs and indignities of our country will kindle into a flame?  Is there no thirst in our
bosoms for glory?  Is it nothing for your names to be enrolled on the list of fame?  Does it
rouse no generous and noble feelings in your breasts to be a guardian shield and avenging sword
to your country?  Are the grateful thanks of your countrymen and posterity no inducement to
valorous acts?

"Go then, fellow soldiers, assist to shield your country from the destruction of an internal
warfare, awake to honor and to glory, rouse the native courage of an American freeman and march
to deeds of valor!

"Let the wings of fame come laden with the tale of your honors, and bring joy to your mothers'
hearts, and the pride of valorous deeds to your fathers' bosoms; then shall your country reward
and bless you--posterity shall venerate your names, the world shall own you as the constituent
guardians of liberty and the bulwark of your nation's freedom!"

I presume the soldiers enlisted at Lancaster were a part of the army infamously surrendered
by General Hull on the 16th of August, 1812.  This event opened up the whole of the then western
states and territories to the inroads of the British and Indians, but was brilliantly compensated
by the splendid victory of Commodore Perry at the battle of Lake Erie, on the 10th of September,
1813, in which he destroyed the British fleet and announced his victory in the stirring words,
"We have met the enemy, and they are ours!" This was followed by the complete triumph of General
Harrison in the battle of the Thames, October 5, 1813, in which Tecumseh was killed, and the
power of the British and Indians in that portion of the field of operations practically destroyed.

My father was appointed by Mr. Madison, on the 9th of November, 1813, as Collector of Internal
Revenue for the Third District of Ohio.  He was then engaged in the active practice of his
profession. He was required to employ deputies in each of the counties of Fairfield, Pickaway,
Madison, Franklin, Delaware, and Knox to collect internal revenue taxes, when assessed.  He
took great care in the selection of his deputies, and in all cases required bonds, with security,
from each deputy.  At this period the only money in Ohio was local bank paper money.  No silver
or gold coins could be had, and the purchasing power of notes varied with the success or defeat
of our armies in the field.  Internal taxes were imposed on distilled spirits, on the retailing
of spirits, on salt, sugar, carriages, sales at auction, a stamp duty of one per cent. on bank
notes, on all notes discounted by a bank, and on inland bills of exchange.

It is clearly shown by the papers on file in the treasury department that Mr. Sherman exercised
the utmost care in the collection of these taxes through his deputies.  No difficulty seems
to have occurred until July, 1817, when the government, without previous notice, refused to
take the paper then in circulation in Ohio, but demanded notes of the Bank of the United States,
or its branches, one of which was located at Chillicothe.  This left upon the hands of his
deputies a large amount of money that soon became utterly worthless.  The system of local banking
failed and the loss fell upon the holders of notes, and, largely, upon the collectors of internal
revenue and their deputies.  Among my father's deputies the principal one seems to have been
Peter Apple, of Pickaway county, who at the time of his appointment held a county office, was
postmaster, and a justice of the peace.  He was a leading man, of high character and standing,
and supposed to be of considerable wealth.  In 1817 he became embarrassed and insolvent, and
was removed from his position as deputy.  His bonds proved worthless, and the whole loss and
liability fell upon my father.  This, with other losses occurring through the failure of other
deputies, was the most unfortunate event of his life.  His correspondence with the Internal
Revenue Bureau shows that he exercised the utmost care in keeping and reporting his accounts,
and the difficulties and losses he sustained in converting local bills into such notes as the
government would receive in payment of taxes.  It is clearly shown that the loss was not caused
by any failure or neglect on his part.  In like circumstances, under the existing law, Congress
has, in all cases where due diligence on the part of the collector has been proven, relieved
the collector.  My father declined to make any appeal for such relief, but applied the proceeds
of all his property, and a large part of his earnings, to make good, as far as he could, the
defalcations of his deputies.  This loss was a great embarrassment for him and his family during
his life.  It did not affect his standing, either at home or with the government, but it deprived
him of many comforts, and his family of advantages and opportunities for education which they
otherwise would have had.

In the spring of 1815 my father was notified of the illness of his father in Norwalk, and immediately
went to Connecticut, but, owing to the nature of the long journey, did not arrive until after
his father's death.  The will of Taylor Sherman gave to his wife, and daughter Elizabeth, all
his real and personal estate in the State of Connecticut, subject to the payment of his debts,
which were very small.  He bequeathed to his two sons, Charles Sherman and Daniel Sherman,
ceratin lands in the town of Sherman, county of Huron, Ohio, being part of the "Sufferers'
Lands."  The remainder of his property lying in the State of Ohio he gave equally to his wife
and children.  The estate was soon settled, and in the following year, 1816, my grandmother
and her daughter, Elizabeth, moved to Ohio and became a part of the family of my father.

Under the old constitution of Ohio prior to 1850, the Supreme Court was composed of four judges.
They met at Columbus in the winter to hold the court of last resort, but at other seasons they
divided into circuit courts composed of two judges, and went from county to county attended
by a bevy of the leading lawyers of the state, all mounted on horseback and always ready for
fun or frolic.  I gladly acknowledge that I have received many a kindness, and much aid in
business as well as political and social life, from the kindly memory of my father.  I shrink
from writing of his personal traits and genial nature, but insert, instead, brief extracts
from a sketch of him written, in 1872, as a part of a local history of Fairfield county, Ohio,
by General William J. Reese, who knew him intimately.  General Reese says:

"Established permanently at Lancaster in the prosecution of his profession, the subject of
this sketch rapidly rose to eminence as a polished and eloquent advocate, and as a judicious,
reliable counsellor at law--indeed, in the elements of mind necessary to build up and sustain
such a reputation, few men were his equals, and fewer still his superiors, in the State of
Ohio or out of it. But it was not only in the higher region of legal attainments that he gained
superiority; his mind was enriched with choice classic cultivation also.

"Judge Sherman not only mastered the intricacies of Coke and Littleton, but, as I have stated,
he made himself familiar with whatever was worthy of reading outside the books of law, and
was therefore fitted to shine in the domain of general literature as well as in the realm of
technical jurisprudence.

"During the pioneer years of Ohio its lawyers were obliged to perform extensive circuits to
practice their profession; they were accustomed to accompany the courts from county to county,
and in this way to traverse an extent of country which, being uncalled for at present, would
appear fabulous in statement and difficult to realize.

"Those early days also commemorated the warmest personal friendships in the profession, and,
indeed, this could hardly have been otherwise, as they compelled its members into the closest
habitual companionship. They rode together in the same primitive style, their saddle-bags stuffed
with papers, documents, briefs, law-books, clothing, and, peradventure, some creature delectation
also.  They were exposed in common to the same inclemencies and impediments of travel, they
lodged together at the same inns or taverns, messed at the same table, slept in the same rooms,
and were not unfrequently coerced by twos into the same bed.  Free, jovial, genial, manly,
and happy times they were, when, after a hard-fought field-day of professional antagonisms
in court, the evening hours were crowded with social amenities, and winged with wit and merriment,
with pathos, sentiment and song.

"If the sayings and doings at the festive evenings of the early Ohio bar could be collected,
there would be materials in rich abundance from which a sympathetic and facile pen could compile
a volume of equal piquancy and sentimental refinement of patriotic detail and humor, that alternate
the pages of Sir Jonah Barrington, or any other winsome work of the kind.  This will not be
questioned for a moment when it is remembered that Henry Clay, Lewis Cass, Philip Doddridge,
Willis Silliman, David K. Este, and Charles Hammond were frequent participants; that Philoman
Beecher, William W. Irvin, Thomas Ewing, William Stanberry, Benjamin Tappan, John M. Goodenow,
Jacob Parker, Orris Parrish, and Charles Goddard habitually contributed to their entertainment,
and that these were often signalized with the hilarious fun of Creighton and the quaint drolleries
of Douglas.  At these symposiums of recreation, and they were held whenever the courts used
to meet, Charles R. Sherman was always the most welcome of companions, and contributed his
full share even to the ambrosial feasts,

  'When all such clustering portions had
   As made their frolic wild, not mad.'

"Thus endowed and so associated, he became a leading and a popular people's lawyer, from the
Ohio River to our northern lake.

"In 1823 he was elected by the legislature to the bench of the Supreme Court of Ohio, and perhaps
the only man in the state who doubted his ability for this high position was himself.  He told
the writer of these lines when speaking on the subject of his appointment, that he assumed
its duties with great personal diffidence and apprehension.  He feared that he lacked the ripe
experience of years necessary to hear and determine cases of magnitude in a court of the last
resort.  His official associates were Calvin Pease, Jacob Burnet, and Peter Hitchcock, and
these are names of renown in the judicial history of Ohio.

"Judge Sherman upon the bench fully realized the large expectations of his professional friends
and the public.

"His written opinions, published in 'Hammond's Reports of the Supreme Court,' demonstrate a
mind of the choicest legal capabilities. They are clear, compact, yet comprehensive, intuitive,
logical, complete, and conclusive, and are respected by the bar and courts in this and other
states as judicial dicta of the highest authority. He won upon the bench, as he did at the
bar, the affection and confidence of his associates.  They esteemed him for his gentle and
genial nature, for the brilliant flashes of his mind and the solid strength of his judgment;
above all, for the stainless integrity of his character, as a judge and as a man.

"Under the provisions of our old constitution, the Supreme Court was required to hold an annual
term or sitting in each county of the state, two of the judges officiating.  In every court-room
in Ohio where Judge Sherman presided he made friends.  His official robes were worn by him
as the customary habiliments of the man. He was never distant, haughty, morose, austere, or
overbearing on the bench.  It was not in his nature to be so anywhere, and it was therefore
always a personal pleasure to practice in his courts. The younger members of the profession
idolized him in every part of the state; for them and their early efforts he systematically
sympathized, and he uniformly bestowed upon them the most gracious compliment that any judge
upon the bench can render to the oldest practitioner at the bar--he gave them his interested
and undivided attention.

"He had entered upon the sixth year of his official term, was in his manly meridian of life,
in the full fruition of his matured intellectual powers, in the plenitude of his public usefulness,
and in the enjoyment of apparent robust physical health, out upon his circuit, and about to
hold a session of the Supreme Court at Lebanon, in Warren county, when suddenly, without any
premonition, he was struck down with a fatal malady, that was frightfully rapid in its termination.
The best medical aid was summoned from Cincinnati; it was in vain.  An express messenger was
hurried to Lancaster for Mrs. Sherman, but before she reached him her lamented husband was dead.

"He died in Lebanon, June 24, 1829, in the 41st year of his age.

"I will not attempt to describe the outburst of public sorrow that prevailed over this event.
It was general and sincere, touching and outspoken; but it was in Lancaster, it was here in
his happy home, which he made the home always of genial and open-hearted hospitality--here
among his neighbors and fellow-citizens of every class and description, all of whom knew him
and all of whom loved him--that the intelligence of his death came with the most painful and
startling abruptness.  They could not comprehend it.  But yesterday he was among them in perfect
health, and now he is dead. Men wept in our public streets.  I do not believe he had a single
personal enemy on earth.

"Had Judge Sherman lived, higher and broader spheres of public usefulness would have opened
before him.  There is no doubt whatever that the same spontaneity of opinion that placed him
upon the supreme bench would have again united, when the vacancy happened, to have sent him
to the Senate of the United States, and those who know him knew full well that his first prepared
public utterance in that chamber upon any pending matter of national importance would have
secured to him a brilliant national name.  This is no fancy penciling.  It was conviction with
his contemporaries, and it would have been the record of history had he lived.  As it is, he
has left to his children the heritage of his spotless public reputation--of his loved and honored
name.

"This fragmentary sketch would be more incomplete did I not mention that Judge Sherman was
a zealous and prominent member of the Masonic fraternity, and that he filled its highest offices
of honor in the several grand bodies of Ohio."

General Reese, the author of this sketch, was born in Philadelphia, Pa., on the 5th of August,
1804.  He was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, studied law and was admitted to
practice in Philadelphia.  He then came to Ohio and was admitted to the bar in Cincinnati and
soon after settled in Lancaster.  In 1829, soon after the death of my father, he married my
eldest sister, Mary Elizabeth.  He did not long pursue his profession but became a merchant.
He was prominent as a member of the board of public works.  In old militia times he was in
command of the forces of the state as its only major-general.  He was grand master of the Grand
Lodge of Masons in Ohio for a series of years, and at the same time held high rank in the Grand
Lodge of the United States. He was a handsome and accomplished gentleman, of pleasing manners
and liberal to a fault.  He died on the 17th of December, 1883, at Lancaster, in his eightieth
year.

Of my mother I can scarcely write without emotion, though she died more than forty years ago.
Her maiden name was Mary Hoyt.  She was a member of a family, mostly merchants and sailors,
who had lived in Norwalk, Connecticut, since its first settlement.  At the period of the American
Revolution the Hoyt family, composed of several brothers, was divided in their allegiance,
some as Tories, some as Whigs.  My mother's grandfather was a Whig.  It is a tradition in the
family that one of the Tory brothers pointed out the house of his brother, at the capture of
Norwalk by the British and Tories, as the nest of a rebel, and it was burned to the ground.
In this it shared the fate of the greater part of the town.  The Tories of the family went
to St. Johns, but years after the war was over they and their descendants returned to Connecticut
and New York, and many of them became prominent and respected citizens. Isaac Hoyt, my grandfather,
was a prominent citizen of Norwalk, possessing considerable wealth for those days.

My mother was carefully educated at the then famous female seminary at Poughkeepsie, New York.
I remember the many embroidered pictures, made with the needle and silk thread by the handicraft
of my mother, as a school girl, carefully framed, that decorated the old house in Lancaster.
The women of that day were trained more for the culture and ornament of the house, more to
knit stockings and weave home spun than to make speeches on woman's rights.  Soon after her
graduation she married Charles Robert Sherman, as before stated, and their lives were blended.
She sometimes rode with him when on the circuit, and always on horseback.  It was an adage
in the family, even to her grandchildren, that she was always ready for a visit.  I never knew
her to scold, much less to strike, her children.  She was our sure refuge against grandmother,
between whom and my mother there was, however, the warmest affection.  When Aunt Elizabeth
married Mr. Parker, grandmother followed her daughter to their home in Mansfield.

When my mother, by the death of her husband, was left a widow with eleven children and spare
means of support, she received the sympathy of all her neighbors and the kindly encouragement
of everyone in Lancaster.  As her children scattered her resources increased, so that after
one year of widowhood she was quite independent.  Like Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield she was
"passing rich" on four hundred dollars a year.  Soon the houses of her children were open to
her, but she clung to Lancaster until all her children had taken flight, when, in the summer
of 1844, she accepted the invitation of her sons to make her home in Mansfield and removed
there.  She had there her house and home.  Her two youngest daughters, and the writer of this,
were her family, but in a very brief period all around her were married.  She still continued
to occupy her home, and always with some of her numerous grandchildren as guests.  She often
visited her children, and her coming was always regarded by them as a favor conferred by her.
And so her tranquil life flowed on until 1852, when she attended the state fair at Cleveland
and contracted a bad cold.  She returned to Mansfield only to die on the 23rd day of September,
1852, at the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Bartley.

Before closing this sketch of my ancestors, it seems proper that I refer to their religious
beliefs and modes of worship.  In England they were classed as Puritans, and were members of
the Presbyterian church.  In Connecticut they followed the doctrine and faith of the Congregational
church of Anthony Stoddard.  Daniel Sherman had his father were deacons of the congregation
of Mr. Stoddard, and his granddaughter, the wife of Taylor Sherman, carried her faith and practice
into her family, and maintained to her death the strict morals, and close observance of the
Sabbath day, that was the established rule and practice of the Connecticut Congregationalist.

My mother's family, the Hoyts, were, with scarcely an exception, members of the Episcopal church.
My mother was reared in that faith and practice from infancy, and was a member of that church
at the time of her marriage.  When she emigrated to Lancaster she found there no church of
that denomination, and, therefore, joined the Presbyterian church under the pastorage of Rev.
John Wright, who baptized all her children.  At a later period, perhaps about 1840, when an
Episcopal church was established in Lancaster, she resumed her attendance and worship in that
church.  When she removed to Mansfield she attended the Episcopal church at that place, partook
of its sacraments and usages, and died in that faith and worship.  All her living children
and their families recognized and supported the Episcopal church as their church, except the
children of General Sherman, who followed their mother and her maternal ancestors in the faith
and worship of the Catholic church.

The writer of this has a firm belief in the Bible as the only creed of religious faith and
duty, and willingly accords to every human being the right to choose his form of worship according
to his judgment, but in case of doubt it is best to follow the teachings of his mother.

With this, the sketch of my ancestors closes.  Many will think it is not part of my life, and
that I have given too much space and importance to it.  If so, I hope they will pass it over
without reading.  Each individual life is molded by one's ancestry, by the incidents of his
childhood, the training he receives in the family and the school and the conditions and surroundings
of his early days.  The boy is father to the man.  It is difficult for one in advanced age
to recall or to measure the influence of each of these in forming his character, but a statement
of them is a necessary preface to a history of his later life.  My information as to my ancestry
is chiefly derived from the admirable local histories of Connecticut, and, especially, from
"Cothron's History of Ancient Woodbury," "Hutchinson's History of Connecticut," and the local
records and traditions of Essex and Sussex counties in England.

I cannot claim for my ancestors superior rank, wealth or ability. They were not specially distinguished
for any of these, but they were men of useful and honorable lives, of untarnished reputation,
highly esteemed by their contemporaries, thorough republicans in the broad sense of that word,
always for their country in any contest for the right, and willing to yield equal political
and civil rights to all their countrymen of every creed and color.

I was born at Lancaster, Ohio, on the 10th day of May, 1823, the eighth child of Charles and
Mary Sherman.  My first distinct recollection of events is connected with the scenes and incidents
that followed the death of my father on the 24th day of June, 1829. I have a dim recollection
before that time of being sent to school with my elder brothers to keep me out of mischief,
and of my father praising me for learning the alphabet, but all other impressions of my infancy
were absorbed in the great family tragedy.  We were warned to keep quiet, and to remain out
of doors, so as not to disturb mother, who was critically ill, and, as our grandmother was
then supreme in the household, we knew that her will was law, and that punishment invariably
followed an offense.  During these enforced absences many were the wise resolves, or, rather,
the conceits, that the boys discussed for "helping mother."

But time, which mellows every misfortune, brought so many changes. My sister, Elizabeth, was
soon married to General William J. Reese. My brother, Charles, came home a full-fledged graduate,
and, as we thought, very learned.  Everybody was kind.  The affairs of my father were settled.
The homestead and garden were secured to my mother, and she had, in addition, a settled income
from her father's estate of $400 a year, while grandmother had her "fire lands," and an assured
but small income besides.  In those days a little money went a great way; but there were eleven
children of us to be cared for,--from Charles, aged eighteen, to Fanny, aged three months.
The separation of this family was imperative, but the friends of my father were numerous, and
their offerings were generous and urgent.  Charles entered the family of our cousin, Mr. Stoddard,
an old and leading lawyer in Dayton, Ohio, studied law, and in two years was admitted to the
bar.  James, the next eldest brother, accepted a clerkship in a store in Cincinnati, and from
that time paid his own way, becoming a merchant, first in Lancaster, and later in Des Moines,
Iowa.  William Tecumseh was adopted into the family of Hon. Thomas Ewing, who lived in the
same square with us in Lancaster.  The two families were bound by ties and mutual aid which
were highly creditable to both.  My father, Judge Sherman, had been able to help Mr. Ewing
in the beginning of his professional career, and Mr. Ewing gratefully and generously responded.
They maintained the most intimate and cordial relations during their lives and their families
have since continued them, the bond being strengthened by the marriage of William Tecumseh
to Mr. Ewing's daughter, Ellen.  Lampson P., the fourth son, was adopted into the family of
Charles Hammond, of Cincinnati, a distinguished lawyer of marked ability, the reporter of the
Supreme Court of Ohio, and editor and chief proprietor of the "Gazette," the leading newspaper
published in his day in Cincinnati.

While the reduction of our family was thus taking place I was kept at school at Lancaster,
where I made considerable advance in such studies as a lad from six to eight years of age can
pursue.  I have forgotten the names of my tutors.  The present admirable system of common schools
in Ohio had not then been adopted, but the private schools in Lancaster were considered very
good, and most of the boys of school age were able at little cost to get the rudiments of an
education.

In the spring of 1831, my father's cousin, John Sherman, a prosperous merchant of Mt. Vernon,
Ohio, accompanied by his bride, visited my mother, and proposed to take me into his family
and to keep me at school until I was prepared to enter Kenyon College, five miles from Mt.
Vernon.  This was a kindly offer and was gratefully accepted.  But I remember well the sadness
I felt, and the tears I shed, over the departure from home into the midst of strangers. The
old-fashioned stage coach was then the only medium of travel and the fifty miles between Lancaster
and Mt. Vernon were to me a wearisome journey.  For days after I arrived at Mt. Vernon I was
moping either at the house or at the store, but ere long became accustomed to the change, and
commenced my studies in the schools, which, as I remember them, were admirably conducted by
teachers of marked ability, among whom were some who became distinguished in professional and
business life.  One of the families that I became intimate with was that of Mr. Norton, one
of whose sons, J. Banning Norton, who lately died in Dallas, Texas, was my constant companion.
We studied our lessons together, but frequently had quarrels and fights.  It was a "fad" of
his to wear his finger-nails very long. On one occasion I pummeled him well, but he scratched
my face in the contest.  When I went home, marked in this way, I was asked how I came to be
so badly scratched and the best answer I could make was that I had fallen on a "splintery log,"
and this got to be a by-word in the school.

According to the usages of the time I was put early to the study of Latin, which then seemed
to be regarded as the necessary foundation for an education.  I must confess that during my
stay in Mt. Vernon I was rather a troublesome boy, frequently involved in controversies with
the teachers, and sometimes punished in the old-fashioned way with the ferule and the switch,
which habit I then regarded as tyrannical and now regard as impolitic.  I do not believe that
the policy of punishment adopted in the schools of those times would be expedient to-day. 
It tended to foster a constant irritation between the teacher and the pupil.

Among my school adventures at Mt. Vernon was one I heartily regret. We had a teacher by the
name of Lord.  He was a small man, and not able to cope with several of the boys in the school.
We called him "Bunty Lord."  One evening after school four boys, of whom I was one, while playing
on the commons, found a dead sheep.  It was suggested that we carry the sheep into the schoolroom
and place it on Lord's seat.  This was promptly done and I wrote a Latin couplet, purporting
that this was a very worthy sacrifice to a very poor Lord, and placed it on the head of the
sheep.  The next morning Lord found the sheep and made a great outcry against the indignity.
Efforts were made at once to ascertain the actors in this farce, and proof was soon obtained.
My handwriting disclosed my part in the case, and the result was a prompt discharge of the
culprits from school; but poor Lord lost his place, because of his manifest inability to govern
his unruly pupils.

Another teacher I remember was of a very different type.  This was Matthew H. Mitchell.  He
was severe and dogmatic, allowing no foolishness in his school.  He was strict and impartial
in his treatment of the boys, and, though we did not like him, we respected his power.

I had one adventure during these early boyhood days which nearly cost me my life, and which
Uncle John (as I called Mr. Sherman) converted into a religious warning.  One Sunday there
was a freshet in Owl Creek, on the south side of the town, and many people went to see it,
I among the rest.  I was reckless, and, against the advice of others, went out on a temporary
foot-bridge which fell and I dropped into the raging waters.  How I escaped I hardly know,
but it was by the assistance of others.  Uncle John said that I was punished by the Almighty
for violating the Sabbath.  Ever after that I was careful about Sunday sport.

I remember, while living at Uncle John's, witnessing the wedding of his niece, Miss Leavenworth,
to Columbus Delano.  I sat upon the stair steps during the ceremony, the first of the kind
I ever saw.  I mention this because of my long acquaintance with Mr. Delano and his family.
He became a great lawyer and filled many offices of high public trust, and is now (1895) living
in vigorous health, eighty-six years old.  I also remember very well Henry B. Curtis and his
family.  He married a sister of Mrs. Sherman of Mt. Vernon, and had a number of children. 
He was a brother of Colonel Samuel R. Curtis, distinguished in the Civil War, was an accomplished
lawyer, a careful business man, and a gentleman in every sense of the word.

On the whole I regard my four years at Mount Vernon as well spent. I advanced in my studies
so that I could translate Latin fairly well, I went through the primary studies, and obtained
some comprehension of algebra, geometry and kindred studies.  In the meantime the condition
of our family had greatly changed and generally improved.  My sister Amelia was happily married
to Robert McComb, a merchant of Mansfield.  My father's only sister was married to Judge Parker,
of Mansfield, to which place my grandmother had followed her daughter, and my brother Charles
had entered upon his career as a lawyer in the same town.

Uncle John had a family of small children growing up and I felt I was in the way.  My mother
was anxious for me to return home as all her boys were away.  I wanted to go.  Uncle John,
however, expressed his desire for me to stay and enter Kenyon College, but I knew that Mrs.
Sherman preferred that I should leave as she had her young children to care for.  The result
was my return to Lancaster at the age of twelve.  Mrs. Sherman is now living at Washington,
D. C., at the age of eighty-seven, with her son John. I shall always remember with sincere
gratitude her care and forbearance manifested toward a rather wild and reckless boy at the
disagreeable age of from eight to twelve years.  Affection may make a mother bear with the
torment of her own child at that age, but will rarely induce an equal leniency toward that
of another.

My return to Lancaster was a happy event in my life.  I renewed my old acquaintance with boys
of my age, and was on intimate terms with Philemon Ewing, Charles Garaghty, Frederick Reese,
W. P. Rice, W. Winthrop Sifford and others.  My brother, William Tecumseh, was three years
my senior, and he and his associates of his own age rather looked down upon their juniors.
Still, I had a good deal of intercourse with him, mainly in the way of advice on his part.
At that time he was a steady student, quiet in his manners and easily moved by sympathy or
affection.  I was regarded as a wild, reckless lad, eager in controversy and ready to fight.
No one could then anticipate that he was to be a great warrior and I a plodding lawyer and
politician.  I fired my first gun over his shoulder.  He took me with him to carry the game,
mostly squirrels and pigeons.  He was then destined to West Point, and was preparing for it.
To me the future was all unknown.

I entered, with all the boys referred to and many others, the Academy of Mark and Matthew Howe,
then well established, and of great reputation,--and deservedly so.  The schoolrooms were large,
and furnished with desks and chairs, an improvement upon the old benches with boards in front.
The course of studies mapped out for me was much the same as I pursued at Mount Vernon, with
a specialty of the first six books of Euclid, and of algebra.  Latin was taught but little.
From the first, arithmetic, algebra and surveying were my favorite studies, and in those I
became proficient. We had an improvised theatre in which we acted plays and made speeches.

When I entered the school Matthew Howe was the regulator, teacher and dominie.  He was the
supreme autocrat, from whom there was no appeal.  All the boys respected him, for he certainly
was a good teacher, but they did not like his domineering way.  I got along with him pretty
well for some months, but one day after I had mastered my lessons I rested my head on my desk
when I was sharply reproved by him.  I said that I did not feel very well and had learned my
lessons.  He called me to the black-board and directed me to demonstrate some problem in my
lesson of Euclid.  I went, and, as I believed, had made the drawing and demonstrated the problem.
He said I had not, that I had failed to refer to a corollary.  I answered that he had not required
this in previous lessons.  Some discussion arose, when, with the ferule in his hand, he directed
me to hold out mine.  I did so, but as he struck my right hand, I hit him with all the force
I could command with my left.  This created great excitement in the school, all the students
being present, my brother Tecumseh among them.  It was said at the time that the boys were
disposed to take sides with me, but I saw no signs of it.  The result was that I was expelled
from the school, but, by the intercession of my mother, and Mrs. Reese, after explanations,
I was restored, and during my two years with Mr. Howe I had no other contention with him. 
He moved some years later to Iowa, where he established another academy, and lived a long and
useful life.  We had friendly correspondence with each other, but neither alluded to our skirmish
over a corollary in Euclid.

The pupils had the usual disposition among boys to play tricks on each other.  The academy
was in a large square, the greater part of which was an orchard of apple trees.  Mr. Howe lived
on the corner of the square, some distance from the academy.  The boys were forbidden to climb
the trees to shake down the fruit, but were quite welcome to the fruit on the ground.  One
fall, when the apples were ripe, the boys conspired to play a trick upon some of the students
and outsiders,--among them my brother Lampson, then on a visit home from Cincinnati,--who were
easily persuaded to rob the orchard, none more willing than "Lamp."  Those in the plot were
to watch and prevent interference.  When the time came we had detailed two or three boys in
the academy to fire off muskets, well loaded with powder and nothing else, when the signal
was given.  Everything moved on according to programme.  The boys detailed to shake down the
apples were in the trees, when, all at once, the firing of musketry commenced.  The boys dropped
from the trees and scattered in every direction.  Some of them were caught in the pea vines
of Mr. Howe's garden, but most of them, with great labor, climbed over the high fence around
the ground and dropped on the outside "with a thud," safe from powder!  The dogs in the neighborhood
lent their aid to the outcry, and everybody was convinced that ruffians had robbed Howe's orchard.

I suppose it will never occur that a generation of boys will not do these things.  At seventy-two
I know it was wrong.  At thirteen I thought it was fun.

I now recall many pleasing memories of what occurred in the two years "at home" at that period
when the life of a boy is beginning to open to the future.  It is the period of greatest danger
and highest hope.  At that time, 1835 to 1837, everybody was prosperous. The development created
by our system of canals had opened markets for our produce.  The public national debt had been
paid.  The pet banks chartered after the destruction of the Bank of the United States started
upon a wild scheme of inflation.  A craze to purchase public land created an overflowing revenue.
All causes combining created a deceptive prosperity that could end only in one way. All this
was Greek to me.  All I wanted, and the controlling wish of my life, was to help mother.  She
was always kind, loving and forbearing.  No word of reproach ever fell from her lips to me.
She was the same to all her children, but if there was any difference, or favor, it was for
me.  Even at that early age I had day dreams for the future, and mother was the central picture.
If fortunes could be made by others why could I not make one!  I wished I was a man.  It began
to appear to me that I could not wait to go through college.  What were Latin and Greek to
me, when they would delay me in making my fortune!

Near the close of 1836 I wrote to my brother Charles at Mansfield, asking him to get me employment.
He discouraged me and said I should stick to my studies, but I insisted that I was strong and
could make my own living.  At this time Ohio had decided upon the improvement of the Muskingum
River from Zanesville to Marietta, and the Board of Public Works had selected Colonel Samuel
R. Curtis, a graduate of West Point, as chief engineer.  He was a brother of Mr. Curtis, of
Mount Vernon, and a friend of our family.

Charles had no difficulty in securing me employment as junior rodman if, at the age of fourteen,
I could perform the duties requed,-- which Colonel Curtis doubted.  The work was not to commence
until the spring, when I was to be given a trial.  I worked hard that winter, for hard work,
I thought, was the way to fortune.  I studied the mode of leveling.  I saw a man on the Hocking
canal operate his instrument, take the rear sight from the level of the water in the canal,
then by a succession of levels backwards and forwards carry his level to the objective point.
Then the man was kind enough to show me how, by simple addition and subtraction, the result
wanted could be obtained.  I was well advanced in arithmetic and in mathematics generally,
and was confident, even if I was hardly fourteen years old, that I could do the work of a junior
rodman.

About the first of May, 1837, the day of deliverance came.  I was to be my own master and make
my own living!  A fortune gilded with hope was before me.  I was to go in the stage thirty-six
miles to Zanesville, and thence by stage-route down the Muskingum River, twenty-eight miles
to McConnelsville.  When the stage arrived at my mother's house it was rather full, but there
was still room enough for me.  All the family, and my comrades, had gathered to see me off.
My baggage, all new, was thrown into the boot, and I took my seat in the stage.  My heart sank
a little as the stage rolled over the hill and down the valley beyond, but the passengers wanted
to know who I was, where I was going, and what I was going to do, and I think they got all
the information they wanted, for why should I not tell them of my visions of hope, sometimes
called plans!  Oh! the golden dreams of childhood, the splendid anticipations of boyhood, the
fields of conquest to be won, the fortunes to be made, all to vanish into thin air by the touch
of reality.

I arrived at Zanesville long after dark, and very weary.  I had never been in so large a town
before.  The hotel was full of people, but no one noticed me.  I was hungry, but could only
get the scraps left, as the supper hour was past.  I was to leave in the morning at daylight
without breakfast.  I was shown into a small dark room, on the third floor, and was to be called
in the morning.  I did not like the place and was alone and in fear.  I had more money than
ever before.  Might I not be robbed?  I took the precaution to deposit my jack-knife on a chair
within reach, to defend myself in case of attack!  My fears were soon lost in sleep.  In the
morning I was aroused to take by place in the stage, but forgot my knife, my only weapon of
defense, and it was lost to me forever. The bright morning revived my spirits.  A hearty breakfast
at Taylorsville revived all my hopes and plans.

I arrived at McConnelsville about noon and stopped at the only tavern in the place.  I called
at the headquarters of Colonel Curtis and introduced myself to him.  He received me very kindly
and introduced me to the office clerks, and to James M. Love, who, I was told, would take me
within a week to the engineer corps, then running their levels at Beverly, sixteen miles away.
I spent the week pleasantly with him, and was intimately associated with him during my service
of two years.  He subsequently studied law and practiced his profession at Coshocton.  When
the Mexican War was progressing he enlisted in one of the Ohio regiments, became a captain,
and, I think, a major, and rendered good service.  He subsequently migrated to Iowa and was
appointed judge of the District Court of the United States for that state.  This position he
held for many years with distinction and honor.  He died July 2, 1891.

When the time came for joining the corps Love proposed that we start in the morning for Beverly,
but I insisted that, as it was only sixteen miles to Beverly, we could easily make the trip
after dinner.  I had never walked so far as sixteen miles in my life, but had walked or run
three or four miles in an hour, and, by the rules of arithmetic, we could easily go sixteen
miles in five or six hours.  He yielded to my wishes, and, as our baggage had been sent by
the stage, we started about one o'clock, light of heart and foot.  When we had climbed the
long hill south of McConnelsville, about a mile and a half, I was a little tired, and I asked
how far we had gone; he said, "a mile and a half!"  I began then to appreciate my folly in
not starting in the morning.  He said nothing, but kept at my slower pace, giving me a rest
occasionally.  It was sun-down when we were six miles from Beverly, and I was completely tired
out.  Still neither of us proposed to stop, as we could have done at a farmer's house on the
roadside.  We reached the town of Beverly about ten o'clock, weary and hungry.  This tramp
taught me a lesson I never forgot,--not to insist upon anything I knew nothing about. We found
the corps the next day in camp in one large tent on the east bank of the Muskingum River.

I had another experience, equally unpleasant, during our first evening in camp.  The members
of our corps, five or six in number, had been invited by Mr. Lindsley to attend a party at
his house near by.  They accepted, and, as Love and I had no invitations, we were left on guard
in the tent containing the instruments and supplies.  When we were alone there came up suddenly
a storm of wind and rain,--not uncommon along the valley,--which flattened the tent and flooded
the ground on which it stood.  We were thoroughly soaked and utterly helpless, and, for a time,
in real danger.  I remember my utter collapse at this new misfortune, but all we could do was
to wait and hope for the return of the corps.  I must confess that I quietly mingled my tears
with the rain, but I did not tell this to the boys when they returned after the storm was over.
No great damage was done.  The tent was soon raised and secured in place.  The next morning
I was given a rod and instructed how to use it.  I noticed that my associates did not have
much confidence in my ability to perform the duties, and, especially the senior rodman, John
Burwell.  I followed instructions, however, and reported my rod correctly.  After a day or
two they gave me a book in which I was to enter the levels.  In a very short time they were
satisfied that I could perform my duties, and I was soon trusted to make up the record of levels,
and the necessary additions and subtractions in my book.

This little corps was composed of men, some of whom afterwards became proficient as engineers,
lawyers or preachers.  Among them were John B. Straughn, Wright Coffinberry, John Scott, John
Burwell, and James M. Love.  The line of surveys were soon completed to Marietta, the locks
and dams were located, estimates of cost were carefully made, the materials to be used were
purchased and the excavations and embankments to be made were computed.  My associates soon
found that I could do the work assigned me, and in this way I won their respect and forbearance.

After the surveys were completed, the members of the corps were located at different places
to take charge of the work.  Mr. Coffinberry was assigned to Lowell, and I was attached to
him as an assistant.  John Scott, who had been at West Point, and, I think, was a graduate,
was assigned to Beverly, where a dam, lock and a short canal were to be constructed.  In the
fall of 1837 he was dismissed, I think, for intemperance.  I was detailed, not exactly to take
his place, for which I was unfitted, but to look after some details, and to keep the headquarters
advised of the progress of the work.  It was soon found that I was able to measure embankments,
excavations, stone and other materials.  The result was that I was continued, at my early age,
practically in charge of the work I have mentioned.  All plans came from headquarters and I
was carefully instructed from there what to do and how to do it.  This was a great and useful
experience for me, and it continued until the summer of 1839.

During most of that time I lived in the family of Mr. Paul Fearing, an old and respected citizen
of Beverly, who had long been engaged in what was called the river trade.  He transported the
produce of the country, chiefly pork, apples, wheat, and corn, from the neighboring region
on flats and scows down the Muskingum, Ohio and Mississippi to New Orleans, stopping at the
riverside towns, selling his commodities and buying others.  The boats were sold at New Orleans
for lumber.  The captain and crew, generally consisting of two men, would return by steamer
with the proceeds of their traffic in sugar, molasses and other productions of the south. 
This was the early mode of traffic, but it had largely been broken up by steamboats, so that
at the time I refer to, Mr. Fearing's occupation was gone; but he had a comfortable little
fortune, and, with his wife and only daughter, lived in a neat cottage on the banks of the
river at Beverly, where I became practically a member of his family.

The community at Beverly was a very intelligent one, composed mainly of settlers from Massachusetts
on the Ohio Company's purchase. The valley of the Muskingum is exceedingly fertile, but it
is comparatively narrow and confined by picturesque hills and ridges, broken by water courses.
The settlements were mostly in the valley, for the hill lands were rough, covered by poor soil,
and were occupied chiefly for grazing.  The portion of the valley at Beverly, and south of
it, was singularly fertile and pleasing, and very valuable.  Its owners and occupants were
mostly of New England birth and descent.  Their productions had a ready market down the river,
and in that age, before railroads, the valley had a great advantage in transportation and supplies
over the interior parts of the state.  The people were, as a rule, educated in good schools,
and they had a college at Marietta and a female college at Zanesville. The proposed improvement
of the Muskingum, they believed, would give them another advantage, by securing them water
of a depth sufficient for boats in the dry seasons of the year, as well as during the "freshets,"
which they then had to depend upon, but which at best were not very reliable in their habits,
as I found to my cost.  This was to be corrected by the "improvement," which, in their delusive
hope, was to give them cheap water transportation all the year around.

At that time railroads were in their infancy.  They have since practically destroyed or crippled
all internal navigation on inland rivers, reaching their iron arms over the United States,
traversing north and south, east and west--a vast gridiron of roads, in value greater than
the market value of all the land in the United States in 1837.  Before the first railroad was
built in Ohio the Muskingum improvement was completed, but it proved to be a bad investment.
The canals of Ohio and this improvement were, perhaps, the necessary forerunner of the railroads
to come, but the money expended on them was practically lost.  And I believe that the experiment
now being made by the United States in the improvement of the Ohio, Missouri and Mississippi
Rivers will end in a like result on a grander scale. By the demolition of the forests which
covered this great valley, the supply and distribution of the waters and rivers in this region
will be so diminished at certain seasons as to render these water- ways worthless for navigation.
Engineers may make dams that will hold water and locks that may lift a steamboat, but if the
clearing away of forests prevents the usual fall of rain and causes its absorption into the
earth, and if the dispersion of water by its use and waste in cities, are to continue, the
dam will not be filled, and the lock will be like a stranded vessel, fit only as a quarry for
cut stone, or for a railway arch over a street of asphalt in a growing city.  Captain Fearing
railed against the steamboats as many now inveigh against the railroads, but these two great
agencies will divide the commerce of the world between them.  The railroads will possess the
land, the steamboats the ocean and the great fresh waters of the world.  Possibly steamboats
may be utilized on short stretches of rivers, but even on these they will have to compete with
railroads having wide-reaching connections which they do not possess.  The money expended to
levee the Mississippi may be lost by the United States, but the planters will receive some
benefit from it in the protection given to their crops.  The steamboats in interior waters
will be exchanged for iron whalebacks, and new forces of a new nature, as yet only partly developed,
such a electricity, will contest with steam as a motive power.

During the period of my stay on the Muskingum improvements I had very excellent opportunities
for study, of which I regret to say I did not avail myself as well as I might have done.  Still,
I occupied my leisure in reading novels, histories, and such books as I could readily get.
Many books were sent to me from Lancaster. I purchased a number, and found some in Beverly
which were kindly lent to me.  I read most of the British classics, as they are called, the
Spectator, Shakespeare, Byron, and Scott.  I read all I could find of the history of America.
I tried to brush up my Latin, but without much success.  I had the frequent company of my associates
on the corps, all of whom were bright, able men, several years in advance of me in age.  We
were frequently called to headquarters at McConnelsville, a trip usually made on horseback,
and where we always had not only a cheerful, but a very instructive time.  Colonel Curtis was
highly esteemed by us all, and his treatment of me was kind and fatherly.  He frequently complimented
me upon my work, and when he came through Beverly he visited me.

Among the diversions at Beverly we had occasional debates.  One of these was upon the dangerous
subject of temperance, a topic not then much discussed, for drinking of something stronger
than water was almost as universal as eating, and considered equally necessary. However, there
sprang up about this time a movement in favor of temperance.  It was thought best to discuss
the subject at a public meeting, a school teacher and I taking the side of temperance, and
two other young men opposing us.  The meeting was well attended, largely by the men employed
on the public work who habitually received a certain number of "jiggers" of whisky a day, at
regular hours.  Whisky, not being taxed, was worth from fifteen to twenty- five cents a gallon.
It was not an expensive luxury, and was regarded by all the workingmen on the improvement as
a necessity. At the end of the debate, which I do not remember to have been a very notable
one, the audience decided that we had the best of the argument.  The discussion created a great
excitement.  The workingmen took up the cry that the Cumberland Presbyterians, the prevailing
sect there, and other Christians, were interfering with their habits and comforts, and when
the young schoolmaster appeared the next day, they raised a shout and pursued him with sticks
and stones. He escaped with difficulty across the river, thus getting out of the way.  I heard
of the trouble, but went up to the canal and made my usual measurements.  Not a word was said
to me and no unkindness shown.  I understood afterwards that this was caused by a warning given
them by the contractor, who, hearing of the assault upon the schoolmaster, told them that I
was a part of the government and it would not do to attack me; that to disturb me would have
a very bad effect upon them all.  So, I was forgiven, and, indeed, I never had any controversy
during my time there with anyone connected with the work, from John McCune, the contractor,
to the humblest water carrier about the works.

Early in the winter of 1838, I think in November, I had made up my mind to go to Cincinnati
on the usual leave after the close of the works.  As an excuse, and to procure means of paying
for the trip, I purchased, partly on credit, a barge and loaded it with barreled salt, apples
and other commodities, intending before the freeze-up to avail myself of the usual rise in
the river to float to the Ohio and thence to Cincinnati.  All went smoothly, the boat was loaded
and floated as far as Luke Shute, when the river was found to be too low to proceed.  Consequently
the boat was tied up and placed under the care of a man who slept aboard.  We waited for the
river to rise, but it did not come.  Both the Muskingum and Ohio Rivers were very low that
season and finally froze up before the freshet came.  This closing of navigation created a
great demand for salt in Cincinnati, as that article could not be obtained from the up-river
country, and it advanced to a price that would have yielded me a little fortune had my boat
not been among those thus detained.  I undertook to carry some of the salt by flatboats, but
they were frozen up.  The packing season in Cincinnati was going forward and salt bore a high
price, but I knew it would fall the moment the river opened.  It was apparent that I would
lose on the salt, but I still clung to my purpose to go down the river.  Finally the freshet
came, some time in January, I think, and then, with three men on the barge, I floated down
the river, tying up at nights for safety, and stopping occasionally to sell apples to the Kentucky
farmers, I arrived at last in Cincinnati and soon found that salt had greatly fallen in value,
so I sold the salt, boat and cargo upon the best terms I could get.  The result was a loss
of about one hundred dollars.  However, I had a very pleasant visit in Cincinnati with my brother
Lampson, who was connected with the "Cincinnati Gazette."  He was a member of the family of
Mr. Charles Hammond, his daughter, and son-in-law Mr. L'Hommedieu.  Mr. Hammond had been a
warm friend of my father's and was certainly one of the ablest writers of his day and generation,
as well as an accomplished lawyer.  He was much pleased at my adventure and especially with
my rough shoes and warm Kentucky jeans.  He told me not to be discouraged, and flattered me
with the statement that a young fellow who could, at fifteen years of age, do what I had done
would make his way in the world.

At that time I saw Judge Burnett at his residence.  He had been a colleague of my father on
the supreme bench, and during all his manhood had been distinguished as a lawyer and a man
of marked ability.  He wore a long queue, preserved the habits of the gentleman of the old
school, and was proud of being a Federalist.  His book called "Burnett's Notes" is perhaps
the most valuable collection of historical data pertaining to the early history of Ohio now extant.

At this time I visited what was called Powers' "Hell."  My brother Lampson and I took the boatmen
with us, and "Lamp," who was fond of playing practical jokes, and knew the place better than
I did, took care to warn one of the roughest of my boatmen to seize hold of a bar which was
before him, and which "Lamp" knew would be charged later with electricity, and to hold on to
it for dear life. We heard a rumbling sound inside, and finally saw flashes resembling lightning,
and we naturally seized on whatever was before us to await the opening of "Hell."  After more
sheet lightning the veil was drawn aside and there were before us representations of human
beings in every attitude of agony.  At the same moment the electric current was passed through
certain bars before us, on one of which the boatman held a firm grip, but no sooner was he
charged with electricity than his hair flew on end, he looked the picture of terror, shouted
in a loud voice, "O, hell!" and broke for the door. Soon after we followed also, and that,
to us, was the end of a scene that ought never to have been exhibited.

I returned to Beverly in a steamboat and soon settled all the bills of the salt speculation,
but had to call upon Mr. McComb and my brother, Charles, for a small sum to make up the deficit.
I repaid this sum later on, but Mr. McComb never failed, whenever I made a business proposition
that seemed hazardous, to say, with a great haw-haw:  "Well, John, that is one of your salt
speculations."

The election in the fall of 1838 resulted in the choice of a Democratic governor and state
legislature, which, according to the politics of the time, involved an entire change of state
officials and employees.  Mr. Wall became a member of the Board of Public Works, and was assigned,
among other works, to the charge of the Muskingum improvement.  In the course of a few months,
I think about the last of June, 1839, Col. Curtis was removed, and Mr. Macaboy was appointed
superintendent in his place.  At first it was uncertain whether changes would be made in the
subordinates of the corps.  Some of its members had become so much attached to Col. Curtis
that they thought it right and proper to send him a letter expressing in substance their regret
at his removal, their high estimate of his services, and thanks for his kindness to them. This
was signed by Mr. Coffinberry, Mr. Burwell, Mr. Love and myself.  I am not certain that the
others did not express the same friendly feelings, but, at all events, the four whose names
I have mentioned were summarily dropped from the service.

Thus, after two years of faithful work with small pay, I was, at the age of sixteen, turned
adrift on account of politics.

I find among my papers, dingy with age, the correspondence with Col. Curtis, and also the subsequent
correspondence between Mr. Wall and myself, in respect to my removal.  My letter to Mr. Wall
was a disclaimer of any intention of disrespect to him in our letter to Col. Curtis, and his
reply was that we alleged that Col. Curtis was removed without a cause, which he denied.  I
have no doubt, from a present reading of the papers, but that he would have retained me as
a juvenile offender if I had made a suitable apology, but the instinct of a boy to stand up
for his party was strong.  I was a Whig of sixteen, and it was glorious to be a victim of persecution.

I also find among my papers of that time, which I thought worthy of preservation, a multitude
of essays on as many different subjects, and some efforts at poetry, all of which I consign
to flames.  Most boys have had the same experience.  The only benefit I derived was the habit
I formed of writing upon such subjects as attracted my attention by reading, a habit I continued
when studying law, in preparing a case for trial, and in preparation for a debate in Congress.

I returned at once to Lancaster.  The great financial depression, commencing in 1837, was now
at its height.  It was said that Ohio State six per cent. bonds had been sold at fifty cents
on the dollar.  Many banks were embarrassed and refused to discount notes, while several failed,
and their circulating notes became worthless. I found that Lancaster had especially suffered,
that many of its leading business firms had suspended or were on the brink of failure. I was
then in excellent health, tall and slender and willing to work.  I received temporary employment
from Dr. Kreider, who was either Clerk of the Court or Recorder of Deeds, I do not remember
which.  He gave me a dollar and a half a day, which I regarded as a great favor, but the records
were soon made up and I had nothing to do.

It was at this period of my life that I fell into very bad habits. Many of the boys about my
age who were with me in Howe's school were still about Lancaster, and were out of employment
like myself. We would meet on the street, or at the post office, or some place of resort, to
talk over old times, and got into the habit of drinking poor wine, mostly made of diluted whiskey
and drugs.  The general habit of drinking spirits was more common than now, but I had not been
subject to this temptation, as Col. Curtis was very strict in prohibiting all such drinking.
With the jolly good fellows I met at Lancaster who had nothing to do, I could not refuse to
join in drinking the health of each other, and thus I was conscious frequently of being more
or less intoxicated.  On one occasion, in the fall of 1839, I went home very sick from drinking.
My mother received me with much surprise and sorrow, but neither complained nor scolded, and,
with the utmost kindness, put me to bed and watched over and cared for me.  I was not stupid
enough to be unconscious of my degradation and her affection, and then and there resolved never
to be in such a condition again, and from that time to this I am not conscious of having been
under the influence of liquor.  I have partaken of wine and spirits at weddings, feasts and
dinners, I have used it as a medicine, and in response to toasts and compliments, but never
to an extent to addle my brain or disturb my walk.

At that time intemperance was a common vice.  Of the young men who were my contemporaries a
very large proportion became habitual drunkards and died prematurely.  No reform in my time
has been so general and beneficial as that of the disuse of drinking intoxicating liquors,
commencing in 1841.  Formerly liquors were put on the sideboard or table, and the invitation
"take a drink" was as common then as "take a seat" is now.  This method of treating was shared
in by preachers of the Gospel, and by all who observed the courtesies of social life.  Now
these conditions have greatly changed.  Whisky is banished to the drug store, the grocery and
the saloon, and even there it is under surveillance and so highly taxed as to furnish a large
proportion of the national revenue.

Some time in the autumn of 1839 I visited Mansfield for the first time, on some business for
General Reese, and it was then arranged that early in the next spring I should return to study
law with my brother Charles.  Mansfield was then a very unattractive village, badly located
on parallel ridges and valleys, but precisely in the center of the very large county of Richland,
then containing 900 square miles.  The county covered a part of the high table-land that separated
the waters of Lake Erie and the Ohio River.  It was an almost unbroken forest during the War
of 1812, with a few families living in log houses, protected by block houses of logs from the
incursions of Indians, many of whom lived in the county.  After the war it was rapidly settled,
chiefly from Pennsylvania, and divided into farms of 160 acres or less, according to the new
congressional plan of townships six miles square, sections one mile square, and subdivisions
of forty, eight, and one hundred and sixty acres.  The topography of the country was high and
rolling, from 900 to 1,350 feet above the sea, with innumerable springs of the purest water,
and small streams and creeks, all rising in the county and flowing north or south into the
Muskingum or Sandusky rivers. The timber was oak, sugar, elm, hickory and other deciduous trees.
This valuable timber was the chief obstruction to the farmers.  It had to be deadened or cut
away to open up a clearing for the cabin and the field.  The labor of two or three generations
was required to convert it into the picturesque, beautiful and healthy region it now is.

The village of Mansfield has been converted into a flourishing city of more than 15,000 inhabitants,
with extensive manufacturing establishments and a network of railroads reaching out to Cleveland,
Chicago, Pittsburg, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis.  There was no sign of this development
when I first visited the place.

On my return to Lancaster I applied myself closely to study and reading, mainly of history.
I read Hume, Smollett and Miller's histories of England, Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire," and such histories of the United States as I could procure. It was at this time
that the memorable "Log Cabin and Hard Cider Campaign" of 1840 commenced.  General Harrison
had been nominated in December, 1839, at Harrisburg, by the Whig party.  He was a distinguished
general in the War of 1812, but had lived mainly a quiet, modest life on his farm at South
Bend, near Cincinnati. The Democratic papers ridiculed him as a feeble old man, living in a
cabin and drinking hard cider.  The Whigs turned these sarcasms with great effect upon their
adversaries.  They compared the old soldier and his excellent war record, living in a cabin
with the latch string out and eating corn bread, with "Matty Van, the used up man," living
in a palace, with roast beef every day, eating from silver plate, with gold spoons, and drawing
a salary of $25,000 a year.  This was no doubt demagoguism, but there was back of it the great
questions of protection to American industries, sound and stable currency, and the necessity
of economy in public expenditures. A great meeting was held in Columbus in February, 1840.
In the procession were log cabins, filled with farmers and hauled by a number of horses and
oxen, and hard cider was on tap for all who chose to drink.  Songs were improvised, especially
by Greiner, the poet of the canvass.  One of these songs, with the refrain, "The Log Cabin
Candidate will March to Washington," became famous and prophetic.

Some time in March, 1840, taking the stage for Mansfield, I saw signs of political excitement
all along the way, even at that early period of the canvass.  My sister Susan, two years younger
than I, was with me.  We met with no adventure worthy of notice until we arrived at our destination,
when, in ascending the hill to the public square, the coach slipped and fell over on its side.
This we considered a bad omen.  It was not, however, an unusual accident, as the roads were
always bad in March, and the coaches of the day not worthy of the name.  We were heartily welcomed
into the family of Robert McComb, who had married my sister, Amelia.

I was to study law, but under the laws of Ohio I could not be admitted to practice until I
arrived at the age of twenty-one years. Our liberal laws presumed that a man of ordinary capacity
could master this profession in two years.  What was I to do during the two spare years?  This
question was left to the decision of my uncle, Judge Parker, husband of my father's only sister.
He was a peculiar character, and, as I will have occasion to refer to him again, I will give
of him a brief biography.  He was born in Nova Scotia.  His father was a merchant of some wealth
who early decided that his son should be educated in Ohio, and chose for him the college at
Athens.  There young Parker not only received his collegiate diploma, but became thoroughly
attached to western habits and opinions.  He studied law with my father at Lancaster, and,
when admitted to the bar, went to Mansfield, where he practiced law.  He was genial, social,
and especially fond of the society of young people.  I have often seen him stop on the streets
of Mansfield to watch boys playing marbles.  He was conceded to be an able lawyer, perhaps
the best land lawyer and special pleader in that part of Ohio.  But he was not an advocate,
partly owing to occasional stuttering, but in jury cases employed my father until the latter
became a judge of the Supreme Court.

Mr. Parker had for some years before 1840 retired from active practice, and was engaged with
Robert McComb as a general merchant. During, or about 1842, he was elected by the legislature
of Ohio presiding judge of the Court of Common Pleas, and became eminently popular, and deservedly
so.  He was to be my guide and counselor.

A few words in regard to my brother, Charles Taylor, will explain our relations, the confidence
he reposed in me, and my deep obligations to him.  He was then a bachelor thirty years old,
with quite a lucrative practice, mainly in collecting debts due to New York and other eastern
merchants.  Our banking system was then as bad as it could be, exchange on New York was always
at a premium, and there was no confidence in our local banks.  Charles was substantially the
banker in Mansfield and surrounding counties for eastern merchants.  He was a good speaker
when he addressed a judge, and his briefs were clear statements of the law of the case, but
when forced to speak to a jury he was exceedingly shy and sensitive. He avoided jury trials.
He was a fair speaker on popular topics, and took great interest in current politics as a Whig.
He was a member of the Harrisburg convention that nominated General Harrison for President,
and made several creditable speeches in that canvass. He was married in the fall of 1840 to
Miss Elizabeth Williams, of Dayton, Ohio, and I became a member of his family soon after.

The influence of the special traits and tendencies of Judge Parker and my brother Charles upon
my life was soon manifest.  My course of study, outlined by Judge Parker, commenced with Blackstone,
followed soon after by Coke on Littleton.  As a compromise I was allowed to read Kent's Commentaries,
but Chitty's Pleadings had to go along with Kent.  The disinclination of Charles to have anything
to do with contested litigation became more marked, and I was compelled, long before my admission
to the bar, to look after such cases as grew out of his practice.  The pleadings then in vogue
were the declarations, pleas and replications of the English common law.  These I prepared
after I had been a student for a year, and, in cases within the jurisdiction of a justice of
the peace, I habitually appeared either in prosecution or defense.

As a matter of course, I was often outwitted and defeated, much to my chagrin.  In one case
submitted to arbitration, a pettifogger of bad repute by the name of Baldwin secured an award
palpably unjust.  I felt more keenly than my client the injustice done him, and never forgave
Baldwin until he was indicted for perjury and driven out of the county in disgrace.

While pursuing my studies, I was able in various ways to make enough money to support myself.
I wrote deeds and agreements, and drew the first map of Richland county, showing subdivisions
in farms, the course of creeks and rivulets, and roads.  I was also employed to collect small
debts, and, toward the close of my probation, I was intrusted with large collections, one of
which was in closing the business of an old firm with outstanding credits of more than $20,000.

In those days of primitive barter the merchant was the banker of all the farmers dealing with
him.  The farmer sold to the merchant most of his surplus products, including live stock and
pork, and purchased his supplies, mainly of clothing, tea, coffee, and the like, and the merchant
made advances on the growing crop.  At the close of the year the account was settled, generally
with a balance in favor of the merchant.  Little money was used.  It was a traffic in commodities.
It was not unusual for the merchant to drive horses and cattle to Pittsburg or further east,
and send the proceeds to the eastern merchant.

In the fall of the year it was quite common for the farmer to load upon his wagon his surplus
wheat and haul it fifty miles to Sandusky and Milan, receiving in return salt and farming implements,
and the balance in money.  Wheat was then the only article that would command cash.  At this
season the highway was often blocked with long trains of wagons that would not give way for
other vehicles. At night the wagons would be parked on the roadside near a creek, and the farmers
and their boys would have a regular joyous picnic on provisions brought from home.  This was
the life of a farmer before the days of railroads, and I am not sure but it was a more happy
one than now.  Then the village blacksmith or shoemaker, the tinker, the carpenter and the
mechanic of every trade had his shop and was a far more important and independent citizen than
now, when grouped into large manufacturing and machine works.

While a student, I was frequently sent by my brother to Wooster, the nearest bank, with large
sums of money to purchase exchange on New York for his clients.  These trips I always made
on horseback. Once, as I was to start quite early in the morning, I received nearly $2,000
in bills the night before, in two packages, and placed them in my overcoat.  In the morning
I threw my overcoat over my arm and went for my horse.  Before mounting I felt for the money
and found it was gone.  I started in alarm for the house and on my way found one package of
$1,000 lying on the sidewalk at the corner of the street where I had passed, but the other
was nowhere to be seen.  I felt sure it was picked up by some one.  I at once gave notice to
my brother, and he took immediate measures to trace the finder.  I cannot express the chagrin
and anxiety which I suffered on account of my carelessness, but Charles uttered no reproach,
but prepared to replace the loss.  Fortunately within a month the lost money was traced to
an "early drunkard," who found the package on the pavement while going for his morning grog.
He was watched and at night was seen to take some money from his trunk.  A search warrant soon
led to the restoration of the money, except a small sum he had spent.  This incident attached
me the more to my brother.

The social life in Mansfield, while I was a student, was very pleasant and instructive.  The
freedom, and yet propriety of intercourse among the young people, was notable.  We had social
meetings, parties, dances, and an occasional ball during the winter, but in summer, riding
in carriages and on horseback was the recreation of the day.  Fleming's Ravine, about five
miles from Mansfield, was the general gathering place for young and old.  A small stream had
cut a deep ravine with rocky banks on either side.  An old mill with its overshot wheel spanned
the ravine and filled it with noisy rattle.  The adjacent woods, where the fire was lit and
the coffee made, and the farm lands stretching beyond, made a picturesque scene often described
and always admired.  Here we had dances, frolics, speeches and fun, with healthy exercise in
the open air. These frolics were often made the subject of description in the newspapers. 
On a notable occasion of one of these visits to Fleming's Ravine, Mr. Franklin Barker, a law
student, wrote for one of the local papers a pleasing description of the scene under the name
of "The Fairy's Tale."  He paraphrased Byron as follows:

  "There was a sound of revelry by day
   And Richland's capital gathered then
   Her beauty and her chivalry and fair eyes
   Looked love to eyes that spoke again."

Many of the persons present were named, or so described as to be recognized.  There was a good
deal of egotism and assumption in the narrative which created much feeling among those who
had not the good fortune to attend.  Though I was present, and greatly enjoyed the picnic,
I thought it was a good opportunity to prick the bubble of self esteem assumed by Barker, and
wrote for the rival newspaper a counter description signed "A Looker On."  This excited a good
deal of interest at the time, but it has probably faded, after half a century, from the memory
of the few who survive; it then created a rivalry and left its mark upon the future.  The destruction
of the mill by a flood, the cutting away of the wood and other causes, have changed this, so
that the gathering place of the young of my day is a thing of the past.

During my study of law, the bar at Mansfield was considered a very able one, including among
its members James Stewart, Thomas W. Bartley, Jacob Brinkerhoff, Charles Sherman and others.
All of those named became judges, either of the courts of Ohio or of the United States.  During
the same period there were also many law students in the offices of these gentlemen, among
them Samuel J. Kirkwood, George W. Geddes, Thomas H. Ford, Henry C. Hedges, Willard Slocum,
Joseph Newman, Patrick Hull and others, who afterwards became distinguished in civil or military
life.  These students, myself among the number, organized a moot court, presided over by Joseph
Newman, then in active practice as a partner of Mr. Stewart. We held famous moot courts in
which cases were tried with all the earnestness, industry and skill that could have been evoked
by real cases.  In these trials Mr. Kirkwood and I were usually pitted against each other,
although he studied late in life, and was then more than thirty years old.  He was then a Democrat,
but moved to Iowa in 1856, became a Republican war governor of that state and United States
Senator.  I have always regarded our contests in this moot court as the most important part
of my legal training.

The course of study pursued under the direction of Judge Parker continued until my admission
to the bar, though much interrupted by the variety and nature of my employment.  I read, in
addition to the routine works prescribed by Judge Parker, a great variety of literary and historical
works, and had substantially practiced my profession a year or more in advance of my admission
to the bar.

I arrived at the age of twenty-one on the 10th day of May, 1844, and promptly on time on that
day I was presented to the Supreme Court "on the circuit," then sitting at Springfield, Ohio,
for admission to the bar.  Several other students were presented, and, according to the custom
of that time, we were all referred to a committee composed of General Samson Mason, Hon. Charles
Anthony, and one other lawyer whose name I do not recall.  All were leading lawyers of that
place, and had been busily occupied in the court. We met that evening at the office of one
of these gentlemen to pass the ordeal for which we had been preparing for years.  A few questions
were put to us which were answered, when some question was asked, the answer to which led to
a decided difference of opinion among the examiners, and a practical suspension of our examination.
It soon occurred to them that they were more interested in the cases coming on "to-morrow"
than in our efficiency as incipient lawyers.  I was asked under whom I studied.  I answered
Judge Parker, and they all agreed that anyone who was certified by him ought to be admitted.

My old and dearest friend, and boon companion, Dr. J. C. Buckingham, of Springfield, was then
entering upon his profession.  He was an admirable penman.  He obtained leave of the clerk
of the court, to write out my certificate of admission as a member of the bar, and this he
did in beautiful form, handsomely illustrated.  He attached to it an enormous seal, and it
was duly signed by the clerk of the court.  I have kept it as a memento of him, but have never
had occasion to present it to anyone.  He, poor fellow, died prematurely at Springfield, when
in the full employment of his duties as a physician, and with the most hopeful prospects of
success in his profession.

I must not forget that in my boyhood days I had a strong penchant for military parade.  I remember
well the respect always shown to Revolutionary veterans, who survived to the period of my boyhood.
At every meeting, political or otherwise, where these soldiers appeared to share in the assemblage
of citizens, they were received with profound respect.  Hats came off.  They were given the
best seats, and every mark of honor was shown them.  What boy did not feel the gushings of
patriotic emotion when one of these old veterans appeared upon the stage.  To a less degree,
similar marks of respect were shown to the soldiers of the War of 1812; but, though this was
as great and important an event in our history, it did not light the spark of patriotic fire
like the Revolutionary War.

Before the war for the Union broke out, military spirit died away, especially in Ohio.  Military
organizations had fallen into disuse and popular contempt.  We had, it is true, in times far
apart, what were called militia musters, but Jack Falstaff's regiment was nothing to our militia.
I had the honor to be a member of the staff of Colonel Urie, of Ashland, when the venerable
General Wilson was the Commander-in-Chief of the militia of that part of Ohio. He was a hero
of the War of 1812, and, as I remember, a gallant and fine-looking old gentleman.  The regiment--so
called--without guns, uniform, or anything proper for a soldier, was with some difficulty formed
into line, but a wavering line, across the public square at Mansfield and along East and West
Market streets, when, by some misunderstanding of orders, the right of the regiment marched
to the right, and the left to the left.  With some difficulty, and a good deal of swearing,
they were brought back into line and dismissed.  Militia day was a day of drunkenness and fighting.
No wonder that years passed without muster.  Such was the military condition of the United
States when the War of the Rebellion sounded the tocsin of alarm, and our generation was called
upon to meet the gravest struggle in American history.

The life of a man is greatly influenced by the place of his birth, the surroundings of his
boyhood, and the habits and customs of the community in which he lived.  As I have been all
my life a resident of Ohio, and for more than forty years have been one of its representatives
in Congress, or the Cabinet, I feel that a brief sketch of the history and resources of the
state may not be out of place in this biography.  No adequate history of the state has been
written, though many works have given general outlines.  The materials are copious, but I can
only state a few events that mark the changes in its civilization.  That it was once occupied
by a race now entirely extinct is evidenced by numerous mounds, earthworks and lines of fortifications
so extensive as to have required to construct them a dense population with a knowledge of mathematics
far beyond that of any tribe or race existing on the American continent, when discovered by
Columbus.  The works of the mound builders can be seen, and have been described, but no ray
of light has been cast upon, or plausible suggestion made to account for, the origin, existence
or disappearance of this race.

Long after the settlement on the Atlantic Coast of the Thirteen Colonies, the territory now
included in the State of Ohio was part of a vast unknown region north and west of the Ohio
River.  It was roamed over by numerous tribes of Indians living in tents of bark or skins,
whose residence was generally as transitory as that of the wandering tribes of Arabia.  Many
of these Indian tribes were composed of a few families under the domination of a chief who
went out from his kindred as Abraham did, and planted his tents where fancy led him, and moved
at his whim or with his game.  Every one of the Indian tribes that had been driven by the white
man from the east and the south chose his camping and hunting grounds in the region of the
O-hi-o, often driving away a weaker tribe.  Their contests with white men had given them some
knowledge of fire-arms, and some of them had been marshaled under arms in the wars between
the English and the French, but, as a rule, the Indians encountered by our race since the landing
at Jamestown were all of the same type of wandering savages.  The difference between these
tribes can be accounted for by their location, whether on the seashore or in the forest or
plain, and by the strength of the tribe, from the powerful Six Nations to the feeble band in
possession of some chosen valley.

Whatever may be said of the irrepressible conflicts between the white man and the Indians,
waged often with savage and relentless cruelties on both sides, it may as truly be said that
the same savage conflicts have been carried on between the different tribes of Indians, which
often ended by the extermination of the weaker tribe, or the absorption of the feeble remnant
with the stronger tribe.  This was certainly the case with the Indian tribes of the northwest
territory.  Ohio was the battleground for destructive warfare between the Indian tribes long
before the white man gained a foothold on its soil.

In 1755, when the war with France commenced, the English settlements covered the Atlantic Coast,
but did not extend across the Alleghany Mountains, though a few hardy pioneers may have wandered
into the wilderness beyond.  But French missionaries, inspired with religious zeal, had penetrated
all the northwest territory, including the great lakes.  In 1673 Marquette and Joliet, two
of these missionaries, after years spent with the Indians on the shores of the lakes, winning
their confidence by humility and care, followed the lines of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers from
the shores of Lake Michigan, and discovered the great river "with a joy that could not be expressed,"
and floated upon its waters to the mouth of the Arkansas.

It is impossible to read the interesting narratives of these missionaries, of their life among
the Indians of the northwest, and their enthusiastic description of the new and wonderful land
they had discovered, without a feeling of admiration and reverence. The adventures and trials
of these zealous priests read like romance; but their description of natural scenes, of great
rivers, mountains and plains, now familiar to fifteen million of people, attest the accuracy
of their statements and the courage and zeal with which they pursued their task.

The discovery of Marquette was diligently followed by Chevalier de la Salle, a knight of fortune,
of wonderful endurance, who, after overcoming incredible difficulties, conducted an expedition
by the way of the lakes and the Mississippi River to its mouth.  Thus the King of France, by
the piety and zeal of a priest and the courage of an adventurer, was able to base his claims
to fully half the continent of North America upon grounds recognized as valid by European law,
namely, the discovery of the St. Lawrence, the occupation of Canada, and the discovery of the
Mississippi from its source to its mouth.  The great body of the continent is drained by these
two rivers.  Their discovery and occupation was sufficient at that time to give to France the
right of exclusive possession of that vast territory, for the title of the Indian tribes was
not considered valid by Christian powers.  While the priests of France were seeking to save
the souls of the Indians, the Kings of France were seeking to rob them of their property.

The French, during this period, erected a line of posts from the mouth of the Mississippi,
by way of the Wabash, Maumee and the lakes, to Montreal, and finally, in 1733, established
a line of posts from Lake Erie to the junction of the Monongahela and Alleghany Rivers, where
Pittsburg now stands, and claimed the whole country north of the Ohio from its source to its mouth.

And here, for the first time, comes into view the majestic form of George Washington, then
a young man of twenty-two.  He was sent by Governor Dinwiddie, of Virginia, to visit the several
Indian tribes at the head of the Ohio River and the French forces at Venango. In the dead of
winter he made his trip into the wilderness, and soon ascertained that it was the fixed purpose
of the French authorities to occupy all the country to the sources of the Ohio, including a
large section of what is now a part of Pennsylvania and New York.  The commander, St. Pierre,
declared his purpose of seizing every Englishman within the Ohio valley.  The result of the
expedition of Washington left no choice to the English government, except to abandon their
claim to the northwest territory, or to declare war.  The English title was based upon their
occupation of the shores of the Atlantic coast from Massachusetts to Georgia. It was claimed
that this occupation carried the right to possession westward from sea to sea.

In the earliest grants to the colonies, especially to Virginia and Connecticut, their western
boundaries extended to the South Sea. Where the South Sea lay, and what was the breadth of
the continent, was not defined by these kingly grants.  James I and his councilors then knew
but little about America.  There was no way to settle this disputed title between the two powers
but by war.  A Virginia company had built a fort on the south side of the Ohio, below the site
of the present city of Pittsburg.  In 1754 the French troops occupied the point at the junction
of the Monongahela and Alleghany, where the city of Pittsburg now is, and erected a fort.

Then followed the well-known war of the French and English, Braddock's defeat, the heroism
of Washington, the capture of Quebec and the cession of Canada and the northwestern territory
to Great Britain. It is impossible to overrate the importance of these events upon the future
of America.  The result was that the region east of the Mississippi River and north of the
Ohio River was the property of Great Britain and the inheritance of the English race.  The
great northwest was theirs, and fairly won.

The extinction of the French title to the Ohio territory was at once followed by the claims
of several colonies to parts of this territory under grants from the British crown; but the
English government declared all the land west of the sources of the Atlantic rivers as under
the dominion of the king for the use of the Indians, and all persons were forbidden to settle
or remain within it.  This dispute was postponed by the War of the Revolution.  An event during
the war, apparently of small importance, had a controlling influence in securing to the United
States the northwestern territory.

The State of Virginia, claiming title under a grant from the British crown to the regions west
of the Alleghanies, in 1778, organized an expedition, under Colonel George Rogers Clark, to
punish and repel incursions of Indians, and capture the old French posts then held by the English.
This he accomplished, so that when negotiations for peace were entered upon in 1782 our plenipotentiaries
could maintain the title of the United States to the northwestern territory, not only by grants
to the English colonies, but by conquest in war, and actual possession at the time of the negotiations.
The British insisted on making the Ohio River a boundary of the United States. Mr. Adams said
that sooner than yield the western territory he would exhort his countrymen to continue the
war as long as they could keep a soldier in the field.  Mr. Jay was equally determined, and
finally the line of the lakes was agreed to.

The treaty of peace recognized the St. Lawrence, the lakes and the 49th parallel of latitude
as the dividing line between the United States and Canada.  But the question arose whether
the western territory was the property of the United States as the result of their joint struggle
for independence, or of the several states under the grants of the English crown.  This dangerous
controversy delayed the formation of the federal government; but it was happily settled by
the cession of the territory to the United States, with or without conditions and reservations,
by the several states claiming western lands.

As a part of this cession and settlement, and almost equal in importance to the constitution
of the United States, was the celebrated ordinance organizing the northwestern territory. 
This ordinance guaranteed the subdivision of the territory into states, and secured to them,
by a perpetual compact, the forms and substance of a republican government, a proper disposition
of the public lands, and the formal prohibition of slavery in the territories, and may be properly
considered the commencement of the history of the State of Ohio.

We may here pause to consider the condition, topography and characteristics of the Territory,
now the State, of Ohio in 1787, when the first territorial government was organized by Congress.
It was bounded on the south and east by the Ohio River, touching on its northeast border the
States of Pennsylvania and New York; on the north by Lake Erie, and on the west by an arbitrary
line not then defined, and contained about 40,000 square miles.  Its topography may be described
as an elevated plain, its highest elevation being 1,540 feet above the sea, its lowest depression
being 440 feet above the sea, and its mean altitude about 800 feet above the sea.  It is traversed
by the comb of a watershed between the river and the lakes, running from northeast to southwest
across the state, much nearer the lake than the river, at an elevation above the sea of from
1,000 to 1,300 feet.  The shed on either side is penetrated by rivers of clear, pure water,
in valleys of great fertility, and usually with hillsides of a gentle slope and fertile soil.

In 1787 it was an unbroken wilderness covered with great forests and sparsely inhabited by
savage tribes of Indians, only here and there tempered by the civilizing teachings of the missionary.
One of the earliest descriptions I find of the famous Miami Valley is as follows:

"The land beyond the Scioto, except the first twenty miles, is rich and level, bearing walnut
trees of huge size, the maple, the wild cherry and the ash; full of little streams and rivulets;
variegated by beautiful natural prairies, covered with wild rye, blue grass and white clover.
Turkeys abounded, and deer and elks, and most sorts of game; of buffaloes, thirty or forty
were frequently seen feeding in one meadow.  Nothing is wanting but cultivation to make this
a most delightful country."

This favored land was thrown open for settlement at a time when the people of the states had
been impoverished by the war, when there was neither money, credit nor commerce, when the government
of the Continental Congress had fallen into contempt, and the new government was passing the
ordeal of a vote in states jealous of each other.  It was the only land subject to sale by
the United States, for Kentucky was covered by Virginia grants, Western New York was the property
of land companies, and all beyond was a terra incognita.  There was a struggle for Ohio land
among all the northern states, including Virginia and Maryland.  Companies were formed, composed
mostly of officers and soldiers of the Revolutionary War, to secure from Congress favorable
land grants.  Virginia and Connecticut had their ample reserves, New York had a large unoccupied
region in her territory, and the other northern states demanded their shares in the common
property of the United States.  The result was that all the states established settlements
in Ohio, and, for the first time in our history, the descendants of the Puritans of New England,
the Dutch of New York, the Germans and Scotch-Irish of Pennsylvania, the Jersey Blues, the
Catholics of Maryland, the Cavaliers of Virginia and the loyal refugees of Canada united their
blood and fortunes in establishing a purely American state on the soil of Ohio.

Among these early settlers were the foremost men of all the states, the Revolutionary stock
that won independence, who carried their love of liberty and the principles and instincts of
their localities to a soil more fertile than any of the old states, and with natural resources,
climate and facilities for settlement and civilization as favorable as any within their reach.
The limits of this sketch will not permit details of the progress of this migration.  The first
difficulty it encountered was the toilsome way to the promised land.  All roads, such as they
were, crossed the Alleghany Mountains, or followed the longer route by the lakes.  A voyage
now easily made in a day then occupied sixty days on foot or on horseback, and every article
of civilized life had to be transported with painful labor over rude paths and roads, relieved
sometimes by barges and canoes on creeks and rivers.

When the first pioneers reached their destination, their land was already occupied.  Every
part of Ohio was then in the possession of Indians.  The war they had maintained with the pioneers
of Kentucky only prepared them for the desperate struggle with new invaders.  The first settlement
of the New England colony was made in Marietta, April, 1788.  From that day to the close of
the war with Great Britain in 1815 there were hostilities in some part of Ohio with the Indians.
There is not a county in Ohio that was not at some time the scene of a battle with the Indians,
or a skirmish, or a massacre.

The interesting "Historical Collections," recently published by Henry Howe, give many details
of this local warfare.  But, aside from the danger that lurked at all times over the cabin
of the pioneer, there were more regular battles with the Indians fought on the soil of Ohio
than in any other state of the Union.  The defeat of General Harmer with 1,300 men, in 1790,
in two battles in the Scioto valley, laid open to predatory warfare all the settlements in
Ohio, and some in Kentucky.  Every attempt at negotiations was defeated by British interference.

In the following year, 1791, a force of over 2,000 men was organized at Cincinnati under General
St. Clair, and marched against the Indians at the head waters of the Maumee.  While encamped
they were attacked by the Indians and ignominiously defeated, losing a large number of officers
and men.  They retreated in disorder, abandoning their baggage and artillery, and throwing
away their arms and accoutrements.  The loss in this disastrous campaign was more than 900
men, of whom 600 were killed.  This calamity spread terror throughout all the settlements as
far as Pittsburg, and arrested for a time the migration to Ohio.

The successive defeats of Harmer and St. Clair greatly impressed General Washington with the
necessity of marching an overwhelming force against the Indians, and he appealed to Congress
for the necessary aid; but there was a manifest reluctance in Congress to vote supplies, even
if the failure to do so involved the abandonment to the Indians of all the territory northwest
of the Ohio.  The supplies, however, were granted, and General Wayne, a Revolutionary hero,
was placed in command.

In August, 1794, with a force of over 3,000 men, he advanced to the confluence of the Maumee
and the Auglaize, and there destroyed the Indian villages and their abundant crops.

Following the Indians down the Maumee to a fort recently built by the British, the forces of
General Wayne attacked the Indians and inflicted upon them a disastrous defeat.  This victory
settled forever the occupancy of this territory by the white man, and the irreversible fate
of the poor Indian, though, as it will appear hereafter, he struggled for this, his favorite
region, for twenty years more.

In looking back over a period of one hundred years it is impossible to suppress a sense of
injustice, and a feeling of sympathy for the Indian in his unequal struggle.  After their defeat
by General Wayne, a general conference of all the Indian tribes in the northwest was proposed,
and agreed upon, to be held during the following year at Greenville.  The full details of this
conference are given by Judge Burnet, in his "Notes on the Northwestern Territory."  General
Wayne, in many "council fires," explained to the chiefs of the numerous tribes the terms of
the treaties made at Forts McIntosh and Harmer, and demanded that they be ratified with additional
concessions and grants.  Many of the replies, in the figurative language of the Indians, are
eloquent appeals to their "Great Father" and their "Elder Brothers" to allow them to possess
in peace the land of their fathers; that they were not represented when these treaties were
made, and that their terms had not been observed by their white brethren.

It was the same old story of injustice and wrong, of might against right.  They were compelled
to accept the terms offered them.  The result was the cession by the Indians to the United
States of 25,000 square miles of southern and eastern Ohio and many other tracts west of Ohio.
The Indians were to receive in return $20,000 in presents, and an annuity of $9,500, to be
distributed among the tribes.  By this treaty confidence was restored to the settlements, and
the tide of migration was renewed, and continued until the breaking out of the War of 1812.
But the treaty of Greenville did not put an end to Indian hostilities.  They still occupied
northwestern Ohio, and that part of the reserve west of the Cuyahoga River. Occasional aggressions
by both races led to outrages and murder, usually followed by encroachments on Indian territory.
In 1805 the remainder of the Western Reserve was ceded by treaty.  In 1818 the northwestern
part of Ohio was purchased by the United States by treaty, subject to certain reservations,
all of which were subsequently ceded to the United States, the last by the Wyandots in 1842,
when the remnant, about 700 souls, moved to Kansas.

The most important, and by far the most dangerous, conspiracy of Indians since the treaty of
Greenville was organized by the "Prophet," a crazy enthusiast denounced as an impostor and
accused of witchcraft, and his brother, Tecumseh, a warrior of approved courage, possessed
of all the craft of the Indian, with remarkable intelligence and comprehensive views.  They
united most of the tribes who had participated in that treaty, and threatened with death all
the chiefs who were concerned in the subsequent treaties.  This excited the attention of General
Harrison, then Governor of the Territory of Indiana, who, in 1811, after many ineffectual conferences
with Tecumseh and the "Prophet," organized a force of 800 men and marched against the "Prophet's"
town, in what is now Cass county, Indiana. The battle of Tippecanoe ensued, in which the Indians
were totally defeated and the town burned.  The loss of the troops was so great that General
Harrison made a speedy retreat.  The war with Great Britain soon followed, and Tecumseh entered
the British service. He participated in most of the battles in Ohio and Michigan during that
war, and was killed at the battle of the Thames on the 5th of October, 1813.  With him ended
all organized Indian hostilities in Ohio.

Prior to 1798 all the laws governing the northwestern territory were selected from the laws
of the states by the territorial judges appointed by the President.  In that year it was ascertained
that the territory contained 5,000 white male inhabitants, when they were authorized, as a
matter of right, to organize and elect representatives to a general assembly, who, with a legislative
council, were authorized to pass laws, subject to the veto of the governor.  The general assembly
was duly organized on the 16th of September, 1799, and was remarkable for the ability and distinction
of its members, most of whom had been soldiers in the Revolutionary War.  This was the beginning
of home rule in Ohio.  The life of the territorial legislature was brief.  Early in January,
1802, a census was taken of the inhabitants in the eastern division of the Territory, now the
State of Ohio, by which it was found that it contained 45,028 persons.  Congress promptly authorized
the people to form a constitution and state government.  This authority was speedily acted
upon, a convention of thirty-five members was elected, and a constitution adopted November,
1802, without being submitted to the people.

This constitution remained unaltered in a single particular for fifty years.  It was regarded
at the time, and ever since, as a model framework of state government, clear and brief in its
provisions, but comprehensive enough to meet the necessities of a people growing in population
from 45,000 to 1,980,329 in 1850. The present constitution of Ohio was framed by a convention,
which met at Columbus, on the 6th of May, 1850, and adjourned on the 10th of March, 1851. 
This constitution was ratified by a majority of the people, and is still in force.

The decennial growth of the population of Ohio is here shown:

  1802 . . . .    45,028
  1810  . . .    230,760
  1820 . . . .   381,295
  1830  . . .    937,903
  1840 . . . . 1,519,467
  1850  . . .  1,980,329
  1860 . . . . 2,339,511
  1870  . . .  2,665,260
  1880 . . . . 3,198,062
  1890  . . .  3,672,316

In 1802 Ohio was eighteenth in rank among her sister states; in 1810 the thirteenth; in 1820
the fifth; in 1830 the fourth; in 1840 the third, and so continued until the recent census
when the marvelous growth of Chicago placed Illinois in advance of Ohio. This remarkable growth
was accompanied by rapid changes in the habits and conditions of the people.  Within a century
they had their struggle with the Indians; then their contest with nature in a new country covered
by forests--the "age of the pioneers;" then the period of internal improvements, when roads
and canals and means of transportation were the great objects of desire; then the marvelous
development of railroads, followed by manufactures. These changes, following in succession,
are the most striking features of the history of Ohio.  I have already referred to the pioneers
who planted the first settlement, who bore the brunt of Indian warfare, and firmly founded
free institutions in Ohio.

After this period, and the organization of the state government, the great migration to Ohio
commenced which, within a century, was destined to extend across the continent.  The settler
was generally poor, bringing all his earthly possessions, with wife and children, in a covered
wagon, slowly traversing difficult roads to the new and only land, then open to settlement.
But the land was cheap, the title clear, the soil good, and all were on the same footing, willing
to help each other.  The task before him was discouraging. He found his quarter-section in
the unbroken forest, its boundary blazed on the trees by the surveyor, and all around him a
wilderness. His first work was to erect a rough cabin of logs for a shelter; his next to clear
an opening for a crop.  Every new settler was a welcome neighbor, though miles away.  The mail,
the newspaper, the doctor and the preacher were long in coming.  In this solitary contest with
nature the settler had often to rely upon his gun for food, upon simple remedies for new and
strange diseases, and upon the hope that his crop would be spared from destruction by wild beasts.

This was the life of the early settler in every county in Ohio, as each in its turn was organized
and opened to settlement.  A life so hard, was yet so attractive that many pioneers, when a
few neighbors gathered around them, preferred to sell their clearings and push further into
the wilderness.  In the meantime the older settlements attracted newcomers.  Mechanics and
tradesmen came along them.  Then towns sprang up, and incipient cities, with corner lots and
hopeful speculators, tempted eastern capitalists to invest their money in Ohio.

Ohio, in these early days, was the only outlet of the population of the northern and middle
states.  Emigrants from the south, following lines of latitude, went into Kentucky and Tennessee.
The great west, with its vast prairies and plains, was not then accessible.  Had it been so,
the forests of Ohio might have been left in solitude for many years to come.  During all this
period, which we may properly call the pioneer stage, the settlers had no market for their
produce, except to supply the demand of incoming immigrants.  Grain and fruit would not bear
the expense of transportation.  The only way to obtain ready money was to convert corn and
grain into hogs, horses and cattle, which were driven on the hoof to Pittsburg and eastern
cities.  But little money circulated, and that was chiefly irredeemable bank notes.  The clothing
of the people was mainly of linsey-woolsey, home-made. The spinning wheel, big and little,
was to be found in every household.  Settlers near the banks of the Ohio River, and its tributaries,
had the advantage of floating their surplus products in rough barges down the Ohio to New Orleans
for a market, so that the southern part of the state advanced rapidly, while the northern part
was still in the possession of the Indians.

When the Indian title was extinguished settlers came from Pennsylvania into the counties immediately
west of it, which are still, in the habits of the people, in the location of houses and barns
and the cultivation of the soil, the precise counterpart of the region from which the settlers
came.  The "Connecticut Reserve" was slowly filled by the northern route of the lakes, almost
exclusively from New England, and the habits and customs of that region were transported to
their new homes, so that the "Western Reserve" to- day is a striking type of old Connecticut
in habits, and with the same ideas.  The lakes became the highway of commerce, and the inhabitants
of the interior carried their surplus grain and produce in long lines of wagons to the new
towns along the lake shore, where it was exchanged for the necessaries of life and enough money
to pay taxes.  All trade in the interior was by barter with merchants, who became the bankers
of the people.

The construction of the Erie Canal, and the introduction of steamboats on the rivers and lakes,
was the beginning of a great revolution. Then followed in Ohio the era of internal improvement
by the construction of two lines of canal across the state, one from Cleveland, on Lake Erie,
to Portsmouth, on the Ohio River, and the other from Toledo, on Maumee Bay, to the city of
Cincinnati, with the lateral canal to Pittsburg, and the improvement of the Muskingum River
by locks and canals.

Salmon P. Chase, then a young attorney at Cincinnati, in his introduction to his compilation
of the laws of the state, published in 1833, thus describes the effect of these improvements
upon the prosperity of Ohio:

"They have afforded to the farmer of the interior an easy access to market, and have enhanced
the value of his farm and his productions. They have facilitated intercourse between different
sections of the state, and have thus tended to make the people more united, as well as more
prosperous.  They have furnished to the people a common object of generous interest and satisfaction.
They have attracted a large accession of population and capital.  And they have made the name
and character of Ohio well-known throughout the civilized world, as a name and character of
which her sons may be justly proud."

This period of prosperity continued for twenty years, when, in 1846, a still greater revolution
was introduced by the building of railroads.  The first object of this was to furnish cheaper
transportation of the produce of the farmer to the Ohio River and Lake Erie.  The first railroads
were from the interior, north and south.  They were little better than tramways, supported
by cross- ties with longitudinal stringpieces covered with thin strips of iron.  The carriages
were propelled by feeble engines, and it was thought a matter of great importance when, by
this new motive power, a bushel of wheat could be transported from the interior to distances
of from fifty to a hundred miles for from six to ten cents.  While a young attorney, I thought
it a grievous injustice that my client, one of the new railroad companies, was compelled by
a jury to pay $2,000 for the right-of-way over twenty miles of farm land.  It was soon discovered
that railroads were to be so successful that they would supersede for the transportation of
persons and passengers all kinds of water transportation, and that lines running long distances
east and west would have the benefit of the through travel and traffic.  In rapid succession
several lines of railroad were built from the eastern cities across the state to the northwest,
west and southwest.  Within twenty years from the first construction of railways they had almost
superseded all former modes of communication, and had reduced the rates of travel and transportation
to less than one-half the former rates.

After the close of the Civil War the construction of railroads rapidly increased, so that in
1890 the total miles of railway track in Ohio was 10,464, and the valuation for taxes was $102,950,642,
a development in a single branch of industry far greater than in any other.  This improvement
led to the adoption of a system of free turnpikes in most of the counties in Ohio, constructed
by local taxation, so that now Ohio is as well supplied with well- constructed turnpikes and
railroads as any state in the Union, and perhaps, as well as many European states.

Another great change in the industry of the people of Ohio rapidly followed the construction
of railroads.  Manufacturing establishments of almost every kind were rapidly constructed,
mostly since the war.

It appears by census, prior to 1890, that in 1850 the total value of manufactures of Ohio was
$62,692,279; in 1860 it was $121,000,000; in 1870 it was $269,713,610; in 1880 it was $348,298,300.
In 1890 it was over $500,000,000.  During the single year 1889 there were incorporated over
400 new companies with a capital stock of $25,584,500.  Almost every article needed for use
by the people is thus produced at home, and great quantities of machinery, especially of farming
machines of every variety, are exported to every state of the Union and to many foreign countries.
The manufacturing industry has thus become second only to that of agriculture, and it is believed
that, under the great impetus given by our protective laws, the time is not far distant when
the value of manufactured products will be equal to, or greater than, the productions of the farm.

The most striking result of the change in the industries of Ohio is the rapid increase of city
population, compared with farming population.  The following table will show the population
of twenty cities, by the censuses of 1850 and 1890:

                       1850.      1890.
  Akron . . . . . . .   3,266     27,601
  Canton . . . . . .    2,603     26,189
  Chillicothe . . . .   7,100     11,288
  Cincinnati . . . .  115,435    296,908
  Columbus  . . . . .  17,882     88,150
  Cleveland  . . . .   17,034    261,353
  Dayton  . . . . . .  10,977     61,220
  Findlay  . . . . .    1,256     18,553
  Hamilton  . . . . .   3,210     17,565
  Ironton  . . . . .    ----      10,939
  Lima  . . . . . . .     757     15,987
  Mansfield  . . . .    3,557     13,473
  Newark  . . . . . .   3,654     15,286
  Portsmouth . . . .    4,011     12,394
  Sandusky  . . . . .   5,087     18,471
  Springfield  . . .    5,108     31,895
  Steubenville  . . .   6,140     13,394
  Tiffin . . . . . .    2,718     10,801
  Toledo  . . . . . .   3,829     81,434
  Zanesville . . . .    7,929     21,009
                      221,553  1,053,910

While the aggregate population of Ohio has increased 185 per cent. since 1850, that of the
cities named has increased 475 per cent.

The growth of cities and manufactures has been accompanied by the discovery and development
of a diversity of mineral resources of great and increasing value.

The mining of coal was insignificant in 1850, while the product of coal in 1890 is estimated
at exceeding 12,000,000 tons.

Recently petroleum was discovered near Marietta and Lima, places in Ohio remote from each other,
thus supplying a new element for commerce and a new agent for manufactures.  Its properties
and innumerable uses have already been tested in Pennsylvania.  The annual supply by the census
of 1890 was 12,471,466 barrels, second only to that of Pennsylvania, and has not yet reached
its maximum.

About the same period came the discovery of natural gas at Findlay, in Hancock and surrounding
counties.  This subtle and mysterious creation of nature has been applied locally as fuel for
manufacture, and as light and heat in many cities and towns.  The duration of its supply, however,
cannot be determined.

The lakes on the north and the river on the south secure to the people of Ohio cheap water
transportation for the importation and exportation of raw materials and finished products,
while the physical features of the country north and south of Ohio, in a measure, compelled
the construction of the great routes of railway over its soil.

From the beginning Ohio has taken a leading part in furnishing facilities for education to
the rising generation.  In early days, when the population was sparse and scattered, day schools
were established, by voluntary effort, in counties, towns and neighborhoods where the population
was sufficient to justify it.  At an early period the State of Ohio established the common-school
system, by which every child between the ages of seven and fourteen years is furnished with
the rudiments of a good education.  Some of these schools have been so far advanced that in
them any child showing proficiency can secure, without cost, an education fully equal to that
furnished by the colleges of the country forty years ago. The amount expended in 1890 for the
support of public schools was $11,407,499.  The number of teachers employed was 19,526.  The
number of persons enrolled between the ages of six and twenty-one was 1,123,985.  The number
of scholars who attended was 797,439.  The average attendance was 549,269.  The excellence
of the system of common schools in Ohio is admitted on all hands to be equal to that of any
other state or section.

The charitable institutions of the state, including children's homes, are equal to the best
in any country in the world.

The building of churches and places of public worship commenced with the first settlement in
Ohio, and has kept pace fully with the growth of population.  In every community, great or
small, churches are open for the worship of the Almighty God.  The broadest toleration is not
only permitted, but favored, by a universal public sentiment.  Every denomination of Christians
who number enough to make a congregation can readily secure a house of worship, not only by
gifts from its members, but by contributions made by other professing Christians.  The same
charity is extended to Jews and Gentiles professing any creed or having any form of worship.

The standing, ability and influence of the men engaged in the professions in Ohio will compare
favorably with any in the Union, and especially is this true of the lawyers of the state. 
Many of the lawyers who engaged in the fervent discussion which led to the Revolution and then
participated in the war, thrown upon their own resources after the war, were among the early
founders of the new settlements in Ohio.  They chiefly framed the first laws of the state.
Judge Burnet, one of them, had intrusted to him the preparation of most of the laws of the
territorial government. The principal lawyers appeared in the constitutional convention and
in the legislatures subsequent, and contributed more than their share in ingrafting upon our
statutes the republican principles and ideas found in the first constitution and laws of the
state. They shared with other settlers in all the hardships of pioneer life.  Innumerable anecdotes
of their voyages through the forests of southern and eastern Ohio, and the swamps of northwestern
Ohio, are preserved among the traditions of the bar.

It was the habit in those early days for the principal lawyers of the state to follow the judges
in their rounds from county to county, attending the courts and aiding local attorneys in the
trial of important causes.  They rode on horseback, with their clothing and books in their
saddlebags, and, where a better lodging could not be found, camped in the woods by the roadside.
The early judges of the Supreme Court, some of whom were transferred to the Supreme Court of
the United States, rode in the same manner on their circuit, administering justice impartially,
but firmly, for the salary of $1,000 a year, only raised to $100 a month about the year 1820.
The doctors and preachers shared the general life and condition and the same homely fare as
their patients and hearers.

A life like this developed individual character and produced many men of odd characteristics,
strange manners and peculiar dress and conversation.  The almost universal use of whisky during
the pioneer period in the family circle and in social life, and the habit of treating and drinking,
led to many wild scenes and fights, but, unlike their brethren of the south, the contestants
commonly were content with the weapons nature gave them.  It was not unusual, when a quarrel
arose, to gather around them, form a circle and give them fair play and a free fight.  There
can be no doubt that in those early days many rude scenes and fights and violence of many kinds
occurred, and such crimes were indulged with more charity than now prevails.  But it is equally
true that thefts and the meaner crimes were more rare than now, and when disclosed were punished
with greater severity than acts of violence.  The stealing of a horse was considered a greater
crime than manslaughter without malice or premeditation.

But all these habits and ideas have been greatly changed for at least fifty years.  The habit
of drinking spirituous liquor at the homestead, in the family circle, or on the farm, has almost
entirely ceased.  As a rule, it is confined to saloons and bar-rooms, mostly in the cities
and large towns, and a "free fight" in the presence of spectators could not now occur in any
community in the state. The enforcement of the criminal laws is as certain as in any other
community.  The discipline of penitentiaries and reformatories and houses of correction is
founded upon the best examples of such institutions in the older states, and the most civilized
countries of Europe.

There is one other quality developed by the people of Ohio which will be readily conceded by
all.  The people from the earliest days were born politicians, vigorous in the defense of their
opinions and firm in the maintenance of all their rights.  The events in their history developed
a military instinct which led them to take an active part whenever their country became involved
in war.  In the pioneer age nearly every able-bodied man served either in the Indian wars or
in the War of 1812.  In the Mexican war the State of Ohio furnished her full quota of soldiers,
and tendered thousands more.  In the political contests that preceded the Civil War the lines
between the two parties were sharply drawn, though when war was commenced by the firing upon
Fort Sumter the people were practically united for its prosecution until the Union was restored
by the unconditional surrender of the Confederate armies.  Questions arose involving individual
rights upon which the Democratic party was divided, but it is due to history to say that in
the great struggle for national life the people of Ohio, without distinction of party, with
few individual exceptions, were on the side of the Union.

The share taken by the several states in the Civil War is familiar to all.  Invidious comparisons
ought not to be made.  It will be conceded that Ohio did its full part in this supreme contest.
She furnished to the Union army 319,659 soldiers, or more than one- tenth of the national armies,
out of a then population of 2,339,000, some of whom served in every considerable battle of
the war.  She furnished from among her sons the leading commanders of the Union army, and a
long list of distinguished officers who were conspicuous in every battle of the war.  The war
Governors of Ohio were conspicuous in their zeal and ability in organizing recruits, and in
care and attention to their comfort and wants.  The people of Ohio, both men and women, contributed
freely in many ways for the relief of the sick and wounded during the war, and after its close
provided homes for needy soldiers, and for the children of those who fell.

I have carefully refrained from mentioning the names of the many illustrious citizens of Ohio
who contributed most to the organization, growth and development of that state and of the United
States, lest I omit others equally worthy of honorable mention.  The Governors of Ohio have
been selected for conspicuous service to the state, or to the United States, and, though the
powers of that officer, under the constitution of Ohio, are not so great as in many of the
states, they were distinguished for ability, integrity and high personal character.  The roll
of statesmen who have served Ohio in the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States includes many of commanding influence in the national councils, two of whom have been
Presidents of the United States, two Chief Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States,
and many others have occupied seats as Justices of the Supreme Court, as heads of departments
of the executive branch of government, and representatives of the highest rank in our diplomatic
service.

It is not intended to make a comparison of the merits of individuals or parties, nor of Ohio
with other states, old or new.  I concede that all the states, old or new, have contributed
to the strength of the republic, the common hope and pride of all American citizens. Local
or state pride is entirely consistent with the most devoted loyalty to the Union.  All I have
sought is to present truthfully a mere outline of the history and resources of a state carved
within a century out of a wilderness, having at the beginning no inhabitants but savage men
and wild beasts, no mark of civilization except that made by an extinct race leaving no name
or date or history, and now converted into the peaceful home of four millions of human beings,
possessed of a full share of property and wealth, a soil rich and fertile, well cultivated
by independent farmers, yielding more than the entire production of all the colonies that rebelled
against Great Britain, and producing by varied industries and developed resources more than
all the states produced when the constitution was adopted.

In intelligence, means of education, temperance, order and religious observance, Ohio may fairly
take its place among the most favored communities in the world.  It is a type of what can be
accomplished under favorable circumstances by a free people under a free government, where
each citizen enjoys the full and undisputed possession of equal rights and opportunities. 
Ohio commenced its existence on the western border line of civilization on the continent. The
center of population has already passed its borders, so that it now takes its place, not in
the west, but in the east.  The new communities that have been founded in the west are largely
composed of the sons and daughters of Ohio, who, following the example of their ancestors,
seek new fields for enterprise and industry.  I have observed that whenever I traveled in the
west, however remote the place, I found the "Ohio man" well advanced among his fellow citizens,
and actively contributing his full share to the growth and prosperity of the community in which
he lived, but retaining his love for his native state, and always proud to say he was born in Ohio.

After I was admitted to the bar I felt the natural elation of one who had reached the end of
a long journey after weary waiting.  I spent two or three weeks in visiting my relatives in
Dayton and Cincinnati, attending the courts in those cities, where I observed closely the conduct
of judges and lawyers in the trial of cases, and returned to Mansfield full of confidence,
and with a better opinion of myself than I have entertained since.

The first object I sought to accomplish was the removal of my mother and her two unmarried
daughters, Susan and Fannie, from Lancaster to Mansfield.  At this time all her sons were settled
at homes distant from Lancaster, and her other daughters were married and scattered.  By an
arrangement between my brothers, Charles and Tecumseh, and myself, I was to keep house with
mother in charge, Susan and Fannie as guests.  This family arrangement was continued until
Susan and I were married and mother died.

To return to my admission to the bar.  I felt that I was now a man. I had heretofore banked
mainly on the treasures of hope.  My brother, Charles Sherman, admitted me as an equal partner
in his lucrative practice, and thus I gained a foot-hold in the profession. Fortunately for
me, his timidity required me to attend stoutly contested cases brought to us.  The old distinction
between law and equity proceedings was then preserved, and Charles was a very good equity counselor.
With this line of distinction between us we never had any difficulty in arranging our business,
or in dividing our labor.  He was then agent and attorney for New York and eastern creditors,
the confidential adviser of our leading business men, and the counselor of a very interesting
sect, then quite numerous in Richland county, called Quakers, or Friends, who could not conscientiously
take the usual oath, but in witnessing all necessary legal papers, and in contests, made their
affirmations.  There was, therefore, left to me the pleadings, oral or written, and the struggle
of debate and trial.  The practice of the bar in Ohio had greatly changed from that of the
early decades of this century. As I have stated, the judges, in the earlier decades, accompanied
by leading lawyers, mounted on horses, went from county to county and disposed of the docket.
The local lawyers had but little to do.  Now all this is changed.  Each county has its bar
and its leading lawyers, and only when the case is of great importance a "foreign" lawyer is
called in.  The change has been caused by the abnormal growth of population.  In 1830 the total
population of the state was only 938,000, that of many of the counties being very small.  In
1850 the population had more than doubled, amounting to 1,980,000.  In 1890 it was 3,672,000,
well distributed among the counties according to their capacity for supporting this increase.

Other remarkable changes have also taken place during the same period.  The entire mode of
conducting business in early days has been abandoned.  Cash payments and short accounts have
taken the place of barter and credit.  The Ohio banking law of 1846, followed and superseded
by the national banking act of 1863, produced a radical change in the forms, credit and solvency
of paper money, and, more than any other cause, has encouraged the holding of small savings
of money in savings banks and like institutions.  These favorable conditions tended to limit
credits, to encourage savings, and to change the vocation and habits of lawyers.

Changes in methods have also affected the legal profession.  The adoption of a code of laws,
and of new and simple pleadings, rendered useless half the learning of the old lawyers, driving
some of them out of practice.  I knew one in Mansfield who swore that the new code was made
by fools, for fools, and that he never would resort to it.  I believe he kept his word, except
when in person he was plaintiff or defendant.  Yet, the code and pleadings adopted in New York
have been adopted in nearly all the states, and will not be changed except in the line of extension
and improvement.

These reforms, and the many changes made in the organization of our state and federal courts,
have to a considerable extent lessened the fees and restricted the occupation of lawyers. 
But it can be said that the leading members of the legal profession proposed and adopted these
reforms, and always advocated any legislation that tended to simplify and cheapen litigation
and at the same time protect life, property or reputation.

While these causes were operating against lawyers, agents of nature, hitherto unknown, undiscovered,
and wonderful, were being developed, which were to completely revolutionize the methods of
travel, the transportation of goods, and the modes of production, thus opening new fields for
the employment of lawyers.  Instead of assault and battery cases, suits for slander and the
collection of debts, the attention of lawyers was directed to the development of railroads,
banking institutions and other corporations.

The construction of railroads caused a most remarkable revolution in the habits and industries
of our people.  The first built in Ohio ran from Lake Erie or the Ohio River, north or south
into the center of the state.  Among them was the Sandusky & Mansfield road, originally a short
line from Sandusky to Monroeville, intended to be run by horse power.  It was soon changed
to a steam road, the power being furnished by a feeble, wheezing engine, not to be compared
with the locomotive of to-day.  It was then extended to Mansfield, and subsequently to Newark,
but was not completed until 1846.  It was built of cross-ties three feet apart, connected by
string pieces of timber about six by eight inches in dimensions, and a flat iron bar two and
one-half inches wide and five-eighths of an inch thick.  The worthlessness and danger of such
a railroad was soon demonstrated by innumerable accidents caused by the spreading of rails,
the "snaking" of the flat bars of iron through the cars, and the feebleness of the engines.
Both road and engines soon had to be replaced.  In every case which I recall the original investment
in the early railroads was lost.

It was thought when the first railroad from Sandusky to Mansfield was completed that the road
would save the farmer five or six cents a bushel on his wheat in its transit to the lake, and
yield a handsome profit to the stockholders of the railroad.  That was the great benefit anticipated.
No one then thought of the movement by railroad, over vast distances, of grain, stock, and
merchandise, but regarded the innovation as a substitute for the old wagon trains to the lake.

The construction of this railroad was considered at that time a great undertaking.  It was
accomplished mainly by the leading business men of Mansfield, but the road turned out to be
a very bad investment, bankrupting some and crippling others.  I was employed by the company
to collect the stock and to secure by condemnation the right-of-way from Plymouth to Mansfield.
Much of the right-of-way was freely granted without cost by the owners of the land.  As the
chief benefit was to inure to the farmers, it was thought to be very mean and stingy for one
of them to demand money for the right-of-way through his farm.  I went over the road from Mansfield
to Plymouth with a company of five appraisers, all farmers, who carefully examined the line
of the railroad, and much to my mortification, assessed in the aggregate for twenty miles of
railway track, damages to the amount of $2,000.  I honestly thought this an exorbitant award,
but the same distance could not be traversed now at a cost for right-of-way of ten times that sum.

The present admirable roads in Ohio have been built mainly by the proceeds of bonds based upon
a right-of-way.

In the meantime other railroads of much greater importance were being built, and the direction
of the roads, instead of being north and south was from east to west, to reach a business rapidly
developing west of Ohio of far greater importance than the local traffic of that state.

Among the most valuable of these railroads was the Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne & Chicago, now a part
of the system of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, by which it is leased.  This road was built
in sections by three different corporations, subsequently combined by authority of the legislatures
of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois.  The first section was the Pittsburg & Ohio railroad
from Pittsburg to Crestline, twelve miles west of Mansfield.

There is perhaps no more remarkable material development in the history of mankind than that
of railroads in the United States since 1845.  The number of miles of such roads is now 171,804.72,
the actual cost of which with equipment amounting to $9,293,052,143. The value of these railroads
and their dependent warehouses and stations is probably greater to-day than the value of the
entire property of the United States in 1840.

Contemporaneous with railroads came the telegraph, the cable, and the telephone.  The first
telegraph wire was strung between Baltimore and Washington in 1844.  The first telegraph line
through the State of Ohio was from Cleveland via Mansfield to Columbus and Cincinnati, and
was established in 1848.  At the close of the session of the Supreme Court at Mansfield in
that year, Judge Hitchcock, who presided, asked me the road to Mt. Gilead, in Morrow county,
a county then recently created.  I pointed to the telegraph wire stretched on poles, and told
him to follow that.  The old Judge, who had been on the supreme bench for over twenty years
was quite amused at the directions given.  He laughed and said he had been mislead by guideboards
all his life, and now he was glad to be guided by a wire.

The development and changes, soon after my admission to the bar, turned somewhat the tide of
my hopes and expectations.  Our firm soon lost the business of collecting debts for eastern
merchants by the establishment of numerous and safe banks under the state act of 1846.  Several
of the old banks, especially those at Wooster, Norwalk, and Massillon had utterly failed, and,
I believe, paid no part of their outstanding notes.  The new banks, founded upon a better system,
one of which was at Mansfield, rapidly absorbed the collections of eastern merchants from the
part of Ohio in which we lived.  This loss was, however, more than made good by our employment
as attorneys for the several railroads through Richland county. My brother gradually withdrew
from his business in Mansfield, and became the general attorney for the Pittsburg, Ft. Wayne
& Chicago Railroad.

In the meantime I had taken a junior part in the trial of several cases in which I was greatly
favored by Mr. Stewart, the most eminent member of his profession at Mansfield.  He gave me
several opportunities for testing my qualities before a jury, so that I gradually gained confidence
in myself as a speaker.

My Uncle Parker was then judge of the Court of Common Pleas.  So far from favoring me on account
of my relation to him, he seemed to wish to demonstrate his impartiality by overruling my pleadings
or instructing the jury against me.  I am quite sure now that this was fanciful on my part,
for he was universally regarded as being an excellent example of a just judge without favor
or partiality.

During the early period of practice at the bar I studied my cases carefully and had fair success.
I settled more cases by compromises, however, than I tried before a jury.  I got the reputation
of being successful by full preparation and a thorough knowledge of the facts and law of the
case.  In addressing a jury I rarely attempted flights of oratory, and when I did attempt them
I failed.  I soon learned that it was better to gain the confidence of a jury by plain talk
than by rhetoric.  Subsequently in public life I preserved a like course, and once, though
I was advised by Governor Chase to add a peroration to my argument, I did not follow his advice.
While I defended many persons for alleged crimes I never but once prosecuted a criminal.  My
old friend, Mr. Kirkwood, was the prosecuting attorney of the county, and I renewed with him
my "moot court" experience in frequent contests between real parties.

During this period I became a member of the order of Odd Fellows in Mansfield.  I took an active
interest in the order, and was at one time Noble Grand of the lodge.  I have continued every
since to pay my dues, but have not been able to attend the meetings regularly for some years.
I have always thought, without any reference to its supposed secrecy, that it is an association
of great value, especially in bringing young men under good social influences with men of respectable
character and standing.

Among the political incidents of this period I recall the excitement that grew out of the Mexican
War.  The general feeling among all classes, and the universal feeling among the Whigs was,
that the Mexican War was purposely and unjustly entered upon to extend the institution of slavery.
There is, now, no doubt that such was the object of the war.  After the battles at Palo Alto
and Resaca de la Palma a call was made upon the people of Ohio for two regiments of volunteers.
These were raised without much difficulty, one being placed under the command of Col. Thomas
L. Hamer, the other under my old commander, Col. Samuel R. Curtis.  I was somewhat tempted
to enter the service, though I did not believe in the justice of the war.  My old friend, Gen.
McLaughlin, raised a company in Mansfield, and my comrade on the Muskingum Improvement, James
M. Love, raised one in Coschocton, and Col. Curtis was to command the regiment.  My brother,
William Tecumseh, then captain in the regular army, was eager to go into the war.  He had been
stationed at Pittsburg, on recruiting service, but during the excitement visited us at Mansfield,
and chafed over the delay of orders to join the troops, then under General Taylor.  No doubt
his impatience led him to be assigned to the expedition around Cape Horn to occupy California,
this, greatly to his regret, keeping him out of the war with Mexico.

Whatever may have been the merits of this war in the beginning, its fruits were undoubtedly
of immense value to this country. Without this war California might, like other provinces of
Mexico, have remained undeveloped.  In the possession of the United States its gold and silver
have been discovered and mined, and, together with all the vast interior country west of the
Mississippi, it has been developed with a rapidity unexampled in history.

In the winter of 1846-7, I for the first time visited the cities of Washington, New York and
Boston.  I rode in a stage coach from Mansfield to the national road south of Newark, and thence
over that road by stages to Cumberland, the railroads not having yet crossed the mountains.
From Cumberland I rode in cars to Baltimore, occupying nearly a day.  From Baltimore I proceeded
to Washington.

On my arrival I went to the National Hotel, then the most popular hotel in Washington, where
many Senators and Members lodged.  I found there, also, a number of charming young ladies whose
company was much more agreeable to me than that of the most distinguished statesmen.  We had
hops, balls and receptions, but I recall very few public men I met at that time.  Mr. Vinton,
then the veteran Member from Ohio, invited me to join for a few days his mess; he was then
boarding in a house nearly opposite the hotel, kept by an Italian whose name I cannot recall.
He was a famous cook.  The mess was composed entirely of Senators and Members, one of the former
being Mr. Crittenden, of Kentucky.  I was delighted and instructed by the free and easy talk
that prevailed, a mixture of funny jokes, well-told stories and gay and grave discussions of
politics and law.

My stay at the capital was brief as I wished to go to New York and Boston.  In New York I received
from a relative a letter of introduction to Benj. R. Curtis, then an eminent lawyer, and latterly
a more eminent justice of the Supreme Court.  When I presented my letter I was received very
kindly and after a brief conversation he said he was able to do me a favor, that he had a ticket
to a grand banquet to be attended by the leading men of Boston at Plymouth Rock, on the anniversary
of the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers, and that Daniel Webster would preside.  I heartily thanked
him, and on the next day, prompt on time, I entered the train at Boston for Plymouth.  When
I arrived at the hotel, which is also a station- house of the railway, I did not know a single
person in the great assemblage.  In due time we were ushered into the dining hall where the
banquet was spread.  There was no mistaking Webster.  He sat at the center of a cross table
with the British minister on his right and Jeremiah Mason on his left.  At the other end of
the room sat Abbott Lawrence and other distinguished men.  The residue of the guests, merchants,
poets, and orators of Massachusetts, filled every seat at the tables.  I sat some way down
on the side and introduced myself to my neighbors on the right and left, but my eye was on
Webster, from whom I expected such lofty eloquence as he alone could utter.

Much to my surprise, when the time came for the oratory to commence, Mr. Lawrence acted as
toast master.  We had stories, songs, poetry and oratory, generally good and appropriate, but
not from Webster. And so the evening waned.  Webster had been talking freely with those about
him.  He displayed none of the loftiness associated with his name.  He drank freely.  That
was manifest to everyone. His favorite bottle was one labeled "Brandy."  We heard of it as
being "more than a hundred years old."  It did not travel down to us.  Webster was plainly
hilarious.  At this time the conductor appeared at a side door and announced that in fifteen
minutes the cars would start for Boston.  Then Webster arose--with difficulty --he rested his
hands firmly on the table and with an effort assumed an erect position.  Every voice was hushed.
He said that in fifteen minutes we would separate, nevermore to meet again, and then, with
glowing force and eloquence, he contrasted the brevity and vanity of human life with the immortality
of the events they were celebrating, which century after century would be celebrated by your
children and your children's children to the latest generation.

I cannot recall the words of his short but eloquent speech, but it made an impress on my mind.
If his body was affected by the liquor, his head was clear and his utterance perfect.  I met
Mr. Webster afterwards on the cars and in Washington.  I admired him for his great intellectual
qualities, but I do not wonder that the people of the United States did not choose him for
President.

Soon after the national Whig convention of 1852, of which I was a member, I heard this story
told by his secretary.  In the evening, when Mr. Webster was at his well-known residence on
Louisiana Avenue, near Sixth street, he was awaiting the ballots in the convention.  When it
came by the telegraph, "Scott 159, Fillmore 112, Webster 21," he repeated it in his deep tones
and said:  "How will this read in history?"  He did not like either Scott or Fillmore, and
was disappointed in the votes of southern members. To be third in such a contest wounded his
pride.  He died before the year closed.  He was, perhaps, the greatest man of intellectual
force of his time, but he had faults which the people could not overlook.  Another incident
about Mr. Webster, and the house in which he lived, may not be without interest.  On New Year's
day of 1860, Mr. Corwin, Mr. Colfax and myself made the usual calls together.  Among the many
visits we made, was one on a gentleman then living in that house.  As we entered, Mr. Corwin
met an old well-trained negro servant who had been a servant of Mr. Webster in this house.
I noticed that Mr. Corwin lost his usual gayety, and as we left the house he turned to us,
and, with deep emotion, asked that we leave him at his lodgings, that his long associations
with Mr. Webster, especially his meetings with him in that house during their association as
members of the cabinet of Fillmore, unfitted him to enjoy the usual greetings of the day. 
I felt that the emotion of such a man as Corwin was the highest possible compliment to the
memory of Daniel Webster.

From Boston I returned to New York.  There, in the families of two brothers of my mother, both
then living, I had a glimpse of New York society.  With Mr. Scott, the son-in-law of my uncle,
James Hoyt, I made nearly one hundred of the usual New Years' visits, then customary in New
York.  This custom I am told has been abandoned, but the New York of to-day is quite different
from the New York of 1847.  It still retained some of the knickerbocker customs of the olden
time.  The site of the Fifth Avenue Hotel was then a stone- yard where grave stones were cut.
All north of Twenty-third street, now the seat of plutocracy, was then sparsely occupied by
poor houses and miserable shanties, and the site of Central Park was a rough, but picturesque
body of woodland, glens and rocky hills, with a few clearings partly cultivated.  Even then
the population of New York was about 400,000, or more than three-fold that of any city in the
United States, and twenty-fold that of Chicago.  Now New York contains 2,000,000 inhabitants,
and Chicago, according to recent reports, about 1,700,000.  Many cities now exist containing
over 100,000 inhabitants, the sites of which, in that year, were within the limits of Indian
reservations.

From New York I returned to Washington.  Many incidents recur to me but they were of persons
now dead and gone, the memory of whom will not be recalled by the present generation.  Mr.
Polk was then President.  He was a plain man, of ordinary ability and more distinguished for
the great events that happened during his presidency than for anything he did himself.  I attended
one of his receptions. His wife appeared to better advantage than he.  I then saw Mr. Douglas
for the first time.  I think he was still a Member of the House of Representatives, but had
attained a prominent position and was regarded as a rising man.  I wished very much to see
Henry Clay, the great favorite of the Whigs of that day, but he was not then in public life.

There was nothing in Washington at that time to excite interest, except the men and women in
public or social life.  The city itself had no attractions except the broad Potomac River and
the rim of hills that surrounded the city.  It then contained about 30,000 inhabitants.  Pennsylvania
avenue was a broad, badly paved, unattractive street, while all the other streets were unpaved
and unimproved.  All that part of the city lying north of K street and west of Fourteenth street,
now the most fashionable part of the city, was then a dreary waste open, like all the rest
of the city, as free pasturage for cows, pigs, and goats.  It was a city in name, but a village
in fact.  The contrast between Washington then and now may be referred to hereafter.

Upon my return from the east in February, 1847, I actively resumed the practice of the law.
I was engaged in several important trials, but notably one at Mount Vernon, Ohio, where the
contesting parties were brothers, the matter in dispute a valuable farm, and the chief witness
in the case the mother of both the plaintiff and defendant. It was, as such trials are apt
to be, vigorously contested with great bitterness between the parties.  Columbus Delano was
the chief counsel for the plaintiff, and I was his assistant.  I remember the case more especially
because during its progress I was attacked by typhoid fever.  I returned home after the trial,
completely exhausted, and on the Fourth of July, 1847, found myself in a raging fever, which
continued more than two months before I was able to rise from the bed, and then I was as helpless
as a child.  I was unable to walk, and was lifted from the house into the carriage to get the
fresh air, and continued under disability until October, when I was again able to renew my
business.

During my practice thus far, I had been able to accumulate in property and money more than
ten thousand dollars.  I had, in addition to my practice, engaged in a profitable business
with Jacob Emminger, a practical mechanic, in the manufacture of doors, blinds and other building
materials.  We acquired valuable pine- lands in Michigan and transported the lumber to our
works at Mansfield.  We continued this business until I was appointed Secretary of the Treasury,
in March, 1877, when I sold out my interest and also abandoned the practice of the law.

I spent the winter of 1847-8 at Columbus, where I made many acquaintances who were of great
service to me in after life, and had a happy time also with the young ladies I met there. 
Columbus was then the headquarters of social life for Ohio.  It had a population of about fifteen
thousand, with few or no manufactures. It has now a population of more than one hundred thousand,
the increase being largely caused by the great development of the numerous railroads centering
there, and of the coal and iron mines of the Hocking Valley.  It was also the natural headquarters
of the legal profession, the Supreme Court of Ohio, then under the old constitution, and the
District Court of the United States holding their sessions there.

On the first day of August, 1848, my grandmother, Elizabeth Stoddard Sherman, died at Mansfield
at the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Parker.  Her history and characteristics have already
been referred to.  She was to our family the connecting link between the Revolutionary period
and our times.  She had a vivid recollection of the burning of the principal towns of Connecticut
by the British and Tories, of the trials and poverty that followed the War of the Revolution,
of the early political contests between the Federalists and Republicans, of the events of the
War of 1812, and of her journey to Ohio in 1816.  She maintained a masterly care of her children
and grandchildren.  She was the best type I have known of the strong-willed, religious Puritan
of the Connecticut school, and was respected, not only by her numerous grandchildren, but by
all who knew her.

My brother-in-law, Thomas W. Bartley, was District Attorney of the United States during the
administration of Mr. Polk, and, as he expected a change would be made by the incoming administration
of Taylor, he advised me to become a candidate for his place, as that was in the line of my
profession.  I told him I doubted if my experience of the bar would justify me in making such
an application, but he thought differently.  I wrote to Mr. Ewing upon the subject and he answered
as follows:

  "Washington, D. C., Dec. 31, 1848.
"John Sherman, Esq., Mansfield, Ohio.

"My Dear Sir:--I believe you would be able to perform the duties of District Attorney, but
your youth would be an objection to your appointment, and in competition with one so long known,
and so highly esteemed, as Mr. Goddard is both professionally and politically, would probably
make your prospects but little encouraging.  If you conclude to withdraw your name, signify
the fact and the reason by letter to Mr. Goddard and it may be of use to you hereafter.  I
am, with great regard,

  "Yours, T. Ewing."

I complied with his advice, though Mr. Goddard, I think, declined and Mr. Mason was accepted.

On the thirty-first of the same month I was married to Margaret Ceclia Stewart, the only child
of Judge Stewart, whom I had known since my removal to Mansfield.  She had been carefully educated
at the Female College at Granville, Ohio, and at the Patapsco Institute, near Baltimore, Maryland.
After the usual wedding tour to Niagara Falls, Montreal and Saratoga, we settled in Mansfield,
and I returned to my profession, actively pursuing it until elected a member of Congress.

It is not worth while to follow my professional life into further detail.  I shall not have
occasion to mention that subject again. Sufficient to say that I was reasonably successful
therein.  During this period Henry C. Hedges studied law with my brother and myself, and when
admitted to the bar became my partner.  Mr. Stewart was elected by the legislature a judge
of the Court of Common Pleas, and after the adoption of the new constitution of 1851, he was
elected by the people to the same office.

I had determined in the fall of 1853 to abandon Mansfield and settle in Cleveland, then rapidly
growing in importance as the leading city in the northern part of the state.  I went so far
as to establish an office there and place in it two young lawyers, nominally my partners, but
the great political currents of that time soon diverted me from the practice of the law into
the political contests that grew out of the repeal of the Missouri Compromise.

  "The direful spring of woes unnumbered."

Before entering upon an account of my political life it seems appropriate for me to state my
political bias and position.  I was by inheritance and association a Whig boy, without much
care for or knowledge of parties or political principles.  No doubt my discharge from the engineer
corps by a Democratic Board of Public Works strengthened this bias.  I shouted for Harrison
in the campaign of 1840.  In 1842 I was enthusiastic for "Tom Corwin, the wagon- boy," the
Whig candidate for Governor of Ohio.  In that canvass Governor Corwin addressed a great meeting
at Mansfield.  I heard his speech, and was full of enthusiasm.  Mr. Corwin was certainly the
greatest popular orator of his time.  His face was eloquent, changeable at his will.  With
a look he could cause a laugh or a tear.  He would move his audience at his pleasure.  I vividly
remember the impression he made upon me, though I cannot recall anything he said.  At the close
of the meeting I was requested by the committee in charge to take Mr. Corwin in a buggy to
Bucyrus. This I cheerfully did.  I noticed that Mr. Corwin was very glum and silent, and to
cheer him up I spoke of his speech and of the meeting.  He turned upon me, and with some show
of feeling, said that all the people who heard him would remember only his jokes, and warned
me to keep out of politics and attend to my law.  He told me that he knew my father, and was
present at his death at Lebanon, where he, Mr. Corwin, lived.  And then, brightening up, he
gave me an interesting account of the early settlement of Ohio, and of the bar and bench, and
of his early life as a wagon boy in Harrison's army.  His sudden fit of gloom had passed away.
I do not recall any circumstance that created a deeper impression on my mind than this interview
with Mr. Corwin.  His advice to keep out of politics was easy to follow, as no one could then
dream of the possibility of a Whig being elected to office in Richland county, then called
"the Berks of Ohio."  Mr. Corwin was defeated at that election.

I took but little part in the campaign of 1844, when Mr. Clay was a candidate for President,
but I then made my first political speech to a popular audience and cast my first vote.  The
meeting was held at Plymouth, and Honorable Joseph M. Root, the Whig candidate for Congress,
was to be the orator.  For some reason Mr. Root was delayed, and I was pressed into service.
Of what I said I have not the remotest recollection, but my audience was satisfied, and I was
doubly so, especially when Mr. Root came in sight.  After that I made a few neighborhood speeches
in support of the Whig candidate for governor, Mr. Mordecai Partley, a gentleman who for several
years had lived in Mansfield, but had long since retired from public office after eight years'
service in the United States House of Representatives.  Mr. Bartley received 147,378 votes,
Mr. Tod, Democrat, 146,461 votes and Mr. King, Third Party, 8,411 votes; so close were parties
divided in Ohio in 1844.

At this time I had but two definite ideas in respect to the public policy of the United States.
One was a hearty belief in the doctrine of protection to American industries, as advocated
by Mr. Clay, and, second, a strong prejudice against the Democratic party, which was more or
less committed to the annexation of Texas, and the extension of slavery.  I shared in the general
regret at the defeat of Mr. Clay and the election of Mr. Polk.  I took some part in the local
canvasses in Ohio prior to 1848, but this did not in the least commit me to active political
life.  I was appointed a delegate to the national Whig convention, held in Philadelphia, in
1848, to nominate a presidential candidate.  I accepted this the more readily as it gave me
an opportunity to see my future wife at her school at Patapsco, and to fix our engagement for
marriage upon her return home.  The chief incident of the convention was the struggle between
the friends of General Scott and General Taylor.

When the convention was being organized, Colonel Collyer, chairman of the Ohio delegation,
said there was a young gentleman in that convention who could never hope to get an office unless
that convention gave him one, and nominated me for secretary of the convention.  Mr. Defrees
said there was a delegate from Indiana in the same condition and moved that Schuyler Colfax
be made assistant secretary.  We then marched together to the platform and commenced our political
life, in which we were to be closely associated for many years.

The nomination of General Taylor, cordially supported by me, was not acceptable to all the
Whigs of Ohio.  The hostility to slavery had grown chiefly out of the acquisition of Texas
as a slave state. An anti-slavery party headed in Ohio by Salmon P. Chase cast 35,354 votes
for Van Buren.  General Taylor was defeated in Ohio mainly by this defection, receiving 138,360
votes.  General Cass received 154,755 votes.  General Cass received the vote of Ohio, but General
Taylor was elected President, having received a majority of the electoral vote.

General Taylor proved a very conscientious and acceptable President. His death, on the ninth
day of July, 1850, preceded the passage of the compromise measures of Henry Clay, commonly
known by his name. They became laws with the approval of Millard Fillmore.

It was my habit during this period to attend the annual state conventions of the Whig party,
not so much to influence nominations as to keep up an acquaintance with the principal members
of the party.  I had not the slightest desire for public office and never became a candidate
until 1854.  In the state convention of 1850 I heartily supported the nomination of General
Scott for President, at the approaching election of 1852.  In this convention an effort was
made to nominate me for Attorney-General in opposition to Henry Stanbery.  I promptly declined
to be a candidate, but received a number of votes from personal friends, who, as they said,
wanted to introduce some young blood into the Whig party.

I then began seriously to study the political topics of the day. I was classed as a conservative
Whig, and heartily supported the compromise measures of 1850, not upon their merits, but as
the best solution of dangerous sectional divisions.  Prior to this time I do not remember to
have given any study, except through the newspapers of the day, to the great national questions
that divided the political parties.

In the spring of 1852 I was designated by the state convention as a delegate at large in association
with Honorable Samuel F. Vinton to the national Whig convention of that year.  I was an earnest
advocate of General Scott, and rejoiced in his nomination.  Here, again, the slavery question
was obtruded into national politics. The clear and specific indorsement of the compromise measures,
though supported by a great majority, divided the Whig party and led to the election of Franklin
Pierce.  In this canvass I took for the first time an active part.  I was designated as an
elector on the Scott ticket.  I made speeches in several counties and cities, but was recalled
to Wooster by a telegram stating that my mother was dangerously ill.  Before I could reach
home she died. This event was wholly unexpected, as she seemed, when I left home, to be in
the best of health.  She had accompanied her daughter, Mrs. Bartley, to Cleveland to attend
the state fair, and there, no doubt, she was attacked with the disease of which she died. 
I took no further part in the canvass.

I wish here to call special attention to the attitude of the two great parties in respect to
the compromise measures.

The Democratic national convention at Baltimore was held in the first of June, 1852.  The resolutions
of that convention in reference to slavery were as follows:

"12.  Resolved, That Congress has no power under the constitution to interfere with, or control,
the domestic institutions of the several states, and that such states are the sole and proper
judges of everything appertaining to their own affairs, not prohibited by the constitution;
that all efforts of the Abolitionists or others, made to induce Congress to interfere with
questions of slavery, or to take incipient steps in relation thereto, are calculated to lead
to the most alarming and dangerous consequences, and that all such efforts have an inevitable
tendency to diminish the happiness of the people, and endanger the stability and permanency
of the Union, and ought not to be countenanced by any friends of our political institutions.

"13.  Resolved, That the foregoing proposition covers, and is intended to embrace, the whole
subject of slavery agitation in Congress, and, therefore, the Democratic party of the Union,
standing on this national platform, will abide by, and adhere to, a faithful execution of the
acts known as the compromise measures settled by the last Congress, 'the act for reclaiming
fugitives from service labor' included; which act, being designed to carry out an express provision
of the constitution, cannot, with fidelity thereto, be repealed, nor so changed as to destroy
or impair its efficiency.

"14.  Resolved, That the Democratic party will resist all attempts at renewing in Congress,
or out of it, the agitation of the slavery question, under whatever shape or color the attempt
may be made."

The Whig convention, which met at Baltimore on the 16th of June, 1852, declared as follows:--

"8.  That the series of acts of the 32nd Congress, the act known as The Fugitive Slave Law
included, are received and acquiesced in by the Whig party of the United States as a settlement
in principle and substance of the dangerous and exciting questions which they embrace, and
so far as they are concerned, we will maintain them, and insist upon their strict enforcement,
until time and experience shall demonstrate the necessity of further legislation to guard against
the evasion of the laws on the one hand, and the abuse of their powers on the other--not impairing
their present efficiency; and we deprecate all further agitation of the question thus settled
as dangerous to our peace, and will discountenance all efforts to continue or renew such agitation
whenever, wherever or however the attempt may be made, and we will maintain the system as essential
to the nationality of the Whig party and the integrity of the Union."

It will be noticed that these platforms do not essentialy differ from each other.  Both declare
in favor of acquiescence in the compromise measures of 1850.

It would seem that under these platforms both parties were committed to acquiescence in existing
laws upon the subject of slavery, and to a resistance of all measures to change or modify them.

I took quite an active part in this canvass and wrote to Mr. Seward, then the great leader
of the Whig party, inviting him to attend a mass meeting in Richland county, to which I received
the following reply:

  "Auburn, Sept. 20, 1852.
"John Sherman, Esq., Mansfield, Ohio.

"Dear Sir:--I have the honor of receiving your letter urging me to accept the invitation of
the Whig central committee to address a mass meeting in Richland county, Ohio, on the second
of October. I appreciate fully the importance of the canvass in which we are engaged, and I
have some conception of the responsibilities of the Whigs of Ohio.  I wish, therefore, that
it was in my power to comply with the wishes, expressed in several quarters, by going among
them to attempt to encourage them in their noble and patriotic efforts, but it is impossible.
Public and professional engagements have withdrawn me from my private affairs during the past
two years, and the few weeks of interval between the last and the next session of Congress
are equally insufficient for the attention my business requires and for the relaxation of public
labors which impaired health demands.  I am, dear sir, with great respect, you friend and humble
servant,

  "William H. Seward."

The election of 1852 resulted in the overwhelming defeat of General Scott, and the practical
annihilation of the Whig party.  Franklin Pierce received 244 electoral votes, and General
Scott but 42.

The triumphant election of Mr. Pierce, on the platform stated, justified the expectation that
during his term there would be no opening of the slavery controversy by the Democratic party.
If that party had been content with the compromise of 1850, and had faithfully observed the
pledges in its platform, there would have been no Civil War.  Conservative Whigs, north and
south, would have united with conservative Democrats in maintaining and enforcing existing
laws.  The efforts of the opponents of slavery and of aggressive pro-slavery propagandists
would have been alike ineffective. The irrepressible conflict would have been indefinitely
postponed. Yet, as will appear hereafter, the leaders of the 33rd Congress of both parties,
and mainly on sectional lines, openly and flagrantly violated the pledges of their party, and
renewed a contest that was only closed by the most destructive Civil War of modern times, and
by the abolition of slavery.  As this legislation brought me into public life, I wish to justify
my statement by the public records, with all charity to the authors of the measures who no
doubt did not anticipate the baleful events that would spring from them, nor the expanded and
strengthened republic which was the final result.  "Man proposes, but God disposes."

When the 33rd Congress met, on the 6th day of December, 1853, the tariff issue was practically
in abeyance.  The net ordinary receipts of the government for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1853, were $61,587,031.68.  The net ordinary expenditures of the government for the same year
were $47,743,989.09, leaving a surplus of revenue over expenditures of $13,843,042.59, of which,
$6,833,072.65 was applied to the payment of the public debt, leaving in the treasury, unexpended,
about $7,000,000.00.  The financial and political condition of the United States was never
more prosperous than when this Congress met.  The disturbance of this condition can be attributed
only to the passage of the act to organize the territories of Nebraska and Kansas approved
by President Franklin Pierce, May 30, 1854.

This act contained a similar clause relating to Nebraska.

To understand the effect of this provision it is necessary to review the status of slavery
in the United States under the constitution and existing laws.

The articles of Confederation make no mention of slavery or slaves. During and after the Revolution
the general feeling was that slavery would be gradually abolished by the several states.

This provision applied to all the territory of the United States that was subject to the jurisdiction
of the Continental Congress.

The constitution of the United States did not mention either slaves or slavery.  The second
provision was intended to authorize the recapture of slaves escaping from their owners to another
state.  It was the general expectation of the framers of the constitution that under its provisions
slavery would be gradually abolished by the acts of the several states where it was recognized.

The first great controversy that grew out of slavery was whether Missouri should be admitted
into the Union as a slave state, and whether slavery should exist in the western territories.

The following provision became part of the law of March 6, 1820, approved by President James
Monroe, and known as the compromise measure of that year:

"That, in all that territory ceded by France to the United States under the name of 'Louisiana,'
which lies north of 36 deg. 30 min. north latitude, not included within the limits of the state
contemplated by this act, slavery and involuntary servitude, otherwise than in the punishment
of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly conviced, shall be and is hereby, forever
prohibited: Provided, always, That any person escaping into the same, from whom labor or service
is lawfully claimed in any other state of territory of the United States, such fugitive may
be lawfully reclaimed, and conveyed to the person claiming his or her labor or service, as
aforesaid."

This compromise measure fixed the boundary line between free and slave states in all the territories
then belonging to the United States.  Slavery was thus forever prohibited within the Territories
of Kansas and Nebraska.  This happy solution was regarded as something more than a mere enactment
of Congress.  It was a territorial division between the two great sections of our country,
acquiesced in by both without question or disturbance for thirty- four years.  The memorable
controversy that arose in the 31st Congress in 1850 in respect to the territory acquired from
Mexico did not in the least affect or relate to the Territories of Nebraska and Kansas.  The
subject-matter of the several bills originally embraced in Mr. Clay's report of the committee
of thirteen, defined the northern boundary of the State of Texas on the line of 36 deg. 30
min. north latitude, provided for the addition of the State of California, for territorial
governments for New Mexico and Utah, and for the surrender of fugitive slaves.

In the resolution annexing Texas to the United States there is this express recognition of
the Missouri Compromise line:

"New states of convenient size, not exceeding four in number, in addition to said State of
Texas, and having sufficient population, may hereafter, by the consent of the said state, be
formed out of the territory thereof, which shall be entitled to admission under the provisions
of the Federal constitution; and such states as may be formed out of that portion of said territory
lying south of 36 deg. 30 min. north latitude, commonly known as the Missouri Compromise line,
shall be admitted into the Union with or without slavery, as the people of each state asking
admission may desire."

The convention providing for the admission of California expressly stipulated by a unanimous
vote that slavery should be forever prohibited in that state.  The bill providing for a territorial
government for New Mexico, the great body of the territory which lay south of the parallel
of latitude 36 deg. 30 min., provided, "That, when admitted as a state, the said territory,
or any portion of the same, shall be received into the Union, with or without slavery, as their
constitution may prescribe at the time of their admission."

The act organizing the Territory of Utah, lying entirely north of the 37th degree of latitude,
contains no provision recognizing the right of the people of that territory to permit slavery
within its borders.  The situation of the state and its population precluded the possibility
of establishing slavery within its borders.

It will be perceived by the compromise measures of 1820 and 1850, the existence or prohibition
of slavery was fixed by express laws, or by conditions which it was fondly believed defined
the limits of slavery, and thus set at rest the only question that threatened the union of
the states.  This settlement was indorsed and ratified by the two great parties in their national
platforms of 1852, with the solemn pledge of both parties that they would resist the re- opening
of these questions.

The Senate of the 33rd Congress was composed of 36 Democrats, 20 Whigs and 2 Free Soilers.
The House was composed of 159 Democrats, 71 Whigs, and 4 Free Soilers, with Franklin Pierce
as President of the United States.

I need not narrate the long struggle in both Houses over the bill to organize the Territories
of Nebraska and Kansas.  It was a direct invitation for a physical struggle between the north
and south for the control of these territories, but it finally passed on the 30th of May, 1854.

This act repealed in express terms the Missouri Compromise of 1820, and falsely stated the
terms of the compromise of 1850, which, as I have shown, had no reference whatever to the Territories
of Nebraska and Kansas.  It re-opened, in the most dangerous form, the struggle between freedom
and slavery in the western territories, and was the congressional beginning of the contest
which culminated in the War of the Rebellion.

It is difficult, at this distance of time, to describe the effect of the act of 1854 upon popular
opinion in the northern states. The repeal was met in Ohio by an overwhelming sentiment of
opposition. All who voted for the bill were either refused a nomination or were defeated by
the people at the polls.  Party lines were obliterated. In every congressional district a fusion
was formed of Democrats, Whigs and Free Soilers, and candidates for Congress were nominated
solely upon the issues made by the Kansas and Nebraska bill.

I had carefully observed the progress of the bill, had read the arguments for and against it,
and was strongly convinced that it was the duty of every patriotic citizen to oppose its provisions.
The firm resolve was declared by the state convention of Ohio, composed of men of all parties,
that the institution of slavery should gain no advantage by this act of perfidy.  It was denounced
as a violation of a plain specific pledge of the public faith made by acts of Congress in 1820
and in 1850.  With this feeling there ran current a conviction that the measure adopted was
forced by southern domination, and yielded to by ambitious northern dough- faces anxious to
obtain southern support.

Unfortunately the drift of parties was on sectional lines.  The whole south had become Democratic,
so that a united south, acting in concert with a few members from the north, could control
the action of Congress.  I believe that a feeling did then prevail with many in the south,
that they were superior to men of the north, that one southern man could whip four Yankees,
that their institution of slavery naturally produced among the masters, men of superior courage,
gentlemen who could command and make others obey.  Whether such a feeling did exist or not,
it was apparent that the political leaders in the south were, as a rule, men of greater experience,
were longer retained in the service of their constituents, and held higher public positions
than their associates from the north. Besides, they had in slavery a bond of union that did
not tolerate any difference of opinion when its interests were involved.  This compact power
needed the assistance only of a few scattered members from the north to give it absolute control.
But now the south was to meet a different class of opponents.  There had been growing all over
the north, especially in the minds of religious people, a conviction that slavery was wrong.
The literature of the day promoted this tendency.  The repeal of the Missouri Compromise aroused
the combative feeling of the north until it became general among all parties and sects.  Still,
the north recognized the legal existence of slavery in the south, and did not propose to interfere
with it, and was entirely content to faithfully observe the obligations of the constitution
and the laws, including those for the return of fugitive slaves.  A smaller, but very noisy
body of men and women denounced the constitution as "a covenant with hell and a contract with
the devil."  A much large number of conservative voters formed themselves into a party called
the Free Soil party, who, professing to be restrained within constitutional limits, yet favored
the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.  They invoked the moral influence and
aid of the government for the gradual prohibition of slavery in the states.  "Liberty is National,
Slavery is Sectional," was their motto.

The strong controlling feeling of the great body of the Whigs and of the Democrats of the north,
who opposed the Nebraska and Kansas law was that the law was a violation of existing compromises,
designed to extend slavery over free territory, that it ought to be repealed, but, if repeal
was impracticable, organized effort should be made to make both territories free states.  "Slavery
shall gain no advantage over freedom by violating compromises," was the cry of a new party,
as yet without a name.

It was on this basis in the summer of 1854, I became a candidate for Congress.  Jacob Brinkerhoff
and Thomas H. Ford, both residents of Richland county, Ohio, and gentlemen of experience and
ability, were also candidates, but we agreed to submit our pretensions to a convention in that
county, and I was selected by a very large majority.  A district convention was held at Shelby,
in July.  Mr. James M. Root, for several terms a Member of Congress, was my chief competitor,
but I was nominated, chiefly because I had been less connected with old parties and would encounter
less prejudice with the discordant element of a new party.

I made a thorough canvass through the district, composed of the counties of Huron, Erie, Richland
and Morrow.  I visited and spoke in every town and township in the district.  William D. Linsley,
a Member of the 33rd Congress, was my competitor.  He was a farmer, of popular manners, but
defective education.  When first a candidate a letter of his was published in which he spelled
the word "corn" "korne."  The Whig newspapers ridiculed him for his faulty spelling, but Democrats,
who were offended at this criticism, said they would show the Whigs how to plant corn, and
the incident proved a benefit rather than an injury to Lindsley.  He had been elected to Congress
in 1852 against a popular Whig by a majority of 754.  He had voted against the Nebraska bill,
but had cast one vote that opened the way to the consideration of that bill, which action was
made the subject of criticism.  This did not enter as a national element in the canvass.  The
real issue was whether the Democrats and Free Soilers would vote for a Whig.  Among the Free
Soilers I was regarded as too conservative on the slavery question.  They were not content
with the repeal of the offensive provisions of the Nebraska act, but demanded the prohibition
of slavery in all the territories and in the District of Columbia.  This feeling was very strong
in the important county of Huron.

When I spoke in North Fairfield I was interrupted by the distinct question put to me by the
pastor of the church in which I spoke, and whose name I do not recall, whether I would vote
for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.  I knew this was a turning point,
but made up my mind to be frank and honest, whatever might be the result.  I answered that
I would not, that the great issue was the extension of slavery over the territories.  I fortified
myself by the opinions of John Q. Adams, but what I said fell like a wet blanket on the audience.
I understood that afterwards, in a church meeting, the preacher commended my frankness and
advised his people to vote for me.

This canvass, more than any other, assumed a religious tone, not on sectarian, but on moral
grounds.  Our meetings were frequently held in churches, and the speaker was invited to the
pulpit, with the Bible and hymn-book before him, and frequently with an audience of men, women
and children, arranged as for religious worship.

The probable course of Democrats opposed to the Nebraska bill was more than a matter of doubt.
They were in the main content with Mr. Lindsley and voted for him.  But out of the general
confusion of parties there arose what was known as the "Know-nothing" order, or American party,
opposed to the Catholics, and to free immigration. It was a secret organization, with signs
and grips.  There were perhaps one thousand of them in my district, composed about equally
of Democrats and Whigs.  They were indifferent, or neutral, on the political issue of the day.

The result of the election in October was against the Democratic party in Ohio.  Every Democratic
candidate for Congress was defeated. Twenty-one Members, all opposed to the repeal of the Missouri
Compromise, but differing in opinion upon other questions, were elected to Congress.  The composition
of the delegation was somewhat peculiar, as the party had no name, and no defined principles
except upon the one question of the extension of slavery.  On the day of the election everyone
was in doubt.  Mr. Kirkwood, who supported Mr. Lindsley, told me it was the strangest election
he had ever seen, that everyone brought his ticket in his vest pocket, and there was no electioneering
at the polls.  He expressed his opinion, but not with much confidence, that Mr. Lindsley was
elected.  When the votes were counted, it was found that I had 2,823 majority, having carried
every county in the district.  Richland county, in which I lived, for the first time cast a
majority adverse to the Democratic party, I receiving a majority of over 300 votes.

During the summer of 1855, the elements of opposition to the administration of President Pierce
organized as the Republican party.  County conventions were generally held and largely attended.
The state convention met at Columbus on the 13th day of July, 1855. It was composed of heterogenous
elements, every shade of political opinion being represented.  Such antipodes as Giddings,
Leiter, Chase, Brinkerhoff, and Lew Campbell met in concert.  The first question that troubled
the convention was the selection of a president.  It was thought impolitic to take one who
had been offensively conspicuous in one of the old parties.  The result was that I was selected,
much to my surprise, and, for a time, much to my chagrin.  Mr. Allison, since a distinguished
Member of the United States Senate, was elected secretary of the convention.  I had never presided
over any assembly excepting an Odd Fellows' lodge. When I assumed the chair I no doubt soon
exposed my ignorance.  A declaration of principles was formulated as follows:

"1.  Resolved, That the people who constitute the supreme power in the United States, should
guard with jealous care the rights of the several states, as independent governments.  No encroachment
upon their legislative or judicial prerogatives should be permitted from any quarter.

"2.  Resolved, That the people of the State of Ohio, mindful of the blessings conferred upon
them by the 'Ordinance of Freedom,' whose anniversary our convention this day commemorates,
should establish for their political guidance the following cardinal rules:

"(1).  We will resent the spread of slavery under whatever shape or color it may be attempted.

"(2).  To this end we will labor incessantly to render inoperative and void that portion of
the Kansas and Nebraska bill which abolishes freedom in the territory withdrawn from the influence
of slavery by the Missouri Compromise of 1820; and we will oppose by every lawful and constitutional
means, the extension of slavery in any national territory, and the further increase of slavery
territory or slave states in this republican confederacy.

"3.  Resolved, That the recent acts of violence and Civil War in Kansas, incited by the late
Vice President of the United States, and tacitly encouraged by the Executive, command the emphatic
condemnation of every citizen.

"4.  Resolved, That a proper retrenchment in all public expenditures, a thoroughly economical
administration of our state government, a just and equal basis of taxation, and single districts
for the election of members of the legislature, are reforms called for by a wise state policy
and justly demanded by the people.

"5.  Resolved, That a state central committee, consisting of five, be appointed by this convention,
and the said committee, in addition to its usual duties, be authorized to correspond with committees
of other states for the purpose of agreeing upon a time and place for holding a national convention
of the Republican party for the nomination of President and Vice President."

