There were various events. I resolved to enter for two. One was a short novel, and the other
a comedietta. The "£5 humorous story" competition I did not go in for; but when the last day
of sending in MSS. for that had passed, I reproached myself with not having despatched one
of my manuscripts. Modesty had prevented me sending in old work, as I felt assured it would
stand no chance, but when it was too late I was annoyed with myself for having thrown away
a possibility. After all I could have lost nothing. Then I discovered that I had mistaken the
last date, and that there was still a day. In the joyful reaction I selected a story called
"Professor Grimmer," and sent it in. Judge of my amazement when this got the prize (£5), and
was published in serial form, running through three numbers of Society. Last year, at a press
dinner, I found myself next to Mr. Arthur Goddard, who told me he had acted as Competition
Editor, and that quite a number of now well-known people had taken part in these admirable
competitions. My painfully laboured novel only got honourable mention, and my comedietta was
lost in the post.

But I was now at the height of literary fame, and success stimulated me to fresh work. I still
marvel when I think of the amount of rubbish I turned out in my seventeenth and eighteenth
years, in the scanty leisure of a harassed pupil-teacher at an elementary school, working hard
in the evenings for a degree at the London University to boot. There was a fellow pupil-teacher
(let us call him Y.) who believed in me, and who had a little money with which to back his
belief. I was for starting a comic paper. The name was to be Grimaldi, and I was to write it
all every week.

"But don't you think your invention would give way ultimately?" asked Y. It was the only time
he ever doubted me.

"By that time I shall be able to afford a staff," I replied triumphantly.

Y. was convinced. But before the comic paper was born, Y. had another happy thought. He suggested
that if I wrote a Jewish story, we might make enough to finance the comic paper. I was quite
willing. If he had suggested an epic, I should have written it.

So I wrote the story in four evenings (I always write in spurts), and within ten days from
the inception of the idea the booklet was on sale in a coverless pamphlet form. The printing
cost ten pounds. I paid five (the five I had won), Y. paid five, and we divided the profits.
He has since not become a publisher.

My first book (price one penny nett) went well. It was loudly denounced by Jews, and widely
bought by them; it was hawked about the streets. One little shop in Whitechapel sold four hundred
copies. It was even on Smith's book-stalls. There was great curiosity among Jews to know the
name of the writer. Owing to my anonymity, I was enabled to see those enjoying its perusal,
who were afterwards to explain to me their horror and disgust at its illiteracy and vulgarity.
By vulgarity vulgar Jews mean the reproduction of the Hebrew words with which the poor and
the old-fashioned interlard their conversation. It is as if English-speaking Scotchmen and
Irishmen should object to "dialect" novels reproducing the idiom of their "uncultured" countrymen.
I do not possess a copy of my first book, but somehow or other I discovered the MS. when writing
Children of the Ghetto. The description of market-day in Jewry was transferred bodily from
the MS. of my first book, and is now generally admired.

