At length the woman reached home, full of anguish, still keeping possession of the gold, but
telling no one whence she had obtained it. When the magistrates, however, got wind of the affair,
she was summoned before them, but she would not speak one word upon the subject, excusing herself
by saying that if she uttered one word respecting it great evil would ensue to her. When, however,
they pressed her more strictly, she discovered to them all that had happened to her in the
Fiery Castle, even to the smallest particular. In an instant, almost before her relation was
fully ended, she was carried away, and no one could ever learn whither she fled.

A year or two afterwards, a young nobleman, a knight, and one well experienced in all things,
took up his abode in those parts. In order that he might ascertain the issue of this affair,
he set out on foot with his servant in the middle of the night on the road to the mountain.
With great difficulty they made the ascent, and were on their way warned six times by an unknown
voice to desist from their attempt.

They kept on, however, heedless of this caution, and at length reached the door of the castle.
There again stood the soldier as a sentinel, and he called out as usual--

"Who goes there?"

The nobleman, who was bold of heart, gave for answer--

"It is I."

Upon this the spirit inquired further--

"Who art thou?"

This time the nobleman made no answer, but desired his servant to hand him his sword. When
this was done, a black horseman came riding out of the castle, against whom the nobleman would
have waged battle. The horseman, however, dragged him up upon his horse and rode with him into
the courtyard, while the soldier chased the servant down the mountain. The nobleman was never
more seen.

THE MONKS AT THE FERRY.

From time immemorial a ferry has existed from Andernach to the opposite side of the Rhine.
Formerly it was more in use than at present, there being then a greater intercourse between
the two shores of the river, much of which might be traced to the Convent of St. Thomas, once
the most important and flourishing nunnery on the river.

Close by this ferry, on the margin of the Rhine, but elevated somewhat above the level of the
water, stands a long, roofless, ruinous building, the remains of the castle of Friedrichstein,
better known, however, to the peasantry, and to all passengers on the river, as the Devil's
House. How it came by this suspicious appellative there are many traditions to explain. Some
say that the Prince of Neuwied, who erected it, so ground down his subjects for its construction,
that they unanimously gave it that name. Others derive its popular sobriquet from the godless
revelries of the same prince within its walls, and the wild deeds of his companions in wickedness;
while a third class of local historians insist upon it that the ruin takes its name from the
congregation of fiendish shapes which resort there on special occasions, and the riot and rout
which they create in the roofless chambers, reeking vaults, and crumbling corridors of the
desolate edifice. It is to this ruin, and of the adjacent ferry, that the following legend belongs.

It was in the time when the celebrated Convent of St. Thomas over Andernach existed in its
pristine magnificence, that late on an autumnal night the ferryman from that city to the Devil's
House on the other side of the river, who lived on the edge of the bank below the ruins of
the ancient palace of the kings of Austrasia, was accosted by a stranger, who desired to be
put across just as the man was about to haul up his boat for the day. The stranger seemed to
be a monk, for he was closely cowled, and gowned from head to foot in the long, dark, flowing
garb of some ascetic order.

"Hilloa! ferry," he shouted aloud as he approached the shore of the river, "hilloa!"

"Here, ahoy! here, most reverend father!" answered the poor ferryman. "What would ye have with me?"

"I would that you ferry me across the Rhine to yonder shore of the river," replied the monk.
"I come from the Convent of St. Thomas, and I go afar on a weighty mission. Now, be ye quick,
my good friend, and run me over."

"Most willingly, reverend father," said the ferryman. "Most willingly. Step into my boat, and
I'll put you across the current in a twinkling."

The dark-looking monk entered the boat, and the ferryman shoved off from the bank. They soon
reached the opposite shore. The ferryman, however, had scarce time to give his fare a good-evening
ere he disappeared from his sight, in the direction of the Devil's House. Pondering a little
on this strange circumstance, and inwardly thinking that the dark monk might as well have paid
him his fare, or, at least, bade him good-night before he took such unceremonious leave, he
rowed slowly back across the stream to his abode at Andernach.

"Hilloa! ferry," once more resounded from the margin of the river as he approached, "hilloa!"

"Here, ahoy!" responded the ferryman, but with some strange sensation of fear. "What would ye?"

He rowed to the shore, but he could see no one for a while, for it was now dark. As he neared
the landing-place, however, he became aware of the presence of two monks, garbed exactly like
his late passenger, standing together, concealed by the shadow of the massive ruins.

"Here! here!" they cried.

"We would ye would ferry us over to yonder shore of the river," said the foremost of the twain.
"We go afar on a weighty errand from the Convent of St. Thomas, and we must onwards this night.
So be up quick, friend, and run us over soon."

"Step in, then," said the ferryman, not over courteously, for he remembered the trick played
on him by their predecessor.

They entered the boat, and the ferryman put off. Just as the prow of the boat touched the opposite
bank of the river, both sprang ashore, and disappeared at once from his view, like him who
had gone before them.

"Ah!" said the ferryman, "if they call that doing good, or acting honestly, to cheat a hard-working
poor fellow out of the reward of his labour, I do not know what bad means, or what it is to
act knavishly."

He waited a little while to see if they would return to pay him, but finding that they failed
to do so, he put across once more to his home at Andernach.

"Hilloa! ferry," again hailed a voice from the shore to which he was making, "hilloa!"

The ferryman made no reply to this suspicious hail, but pushed off his boat from the landing-place,
fully resolved in his own mind to have nothing to do with any more such black cattle that night.

"Hilloa! ferry," was again repeated in a sterner voice. "Art dead or asleep?"

"Here, ahoy!" cried the ferryman. "What would ye?"

He had thought of passing downwards to the other extremity of the town, and there mooring his
barque below the place she usually lay in, lest any other monks might feel disposed to make
him their slave without offering any recompense. He had, however, scarcely entertained the
idea, when three black-robed men, clothed as the former, in long, flowing garments, but more
closely cowled, if possible, than they, stood on the very edge of the stream, and beckoned
him to them. It was in vain for him to try to evade them, and as if to render any effort to
that effect more nugatory, the moon broke forth from the thick clouds, and lit up the scene
all around with a radiance like day.

"Step in, holy fathers! step in! quick!" said he, in a gruff voice, after they had told him
the same tale in the very same words as the three others had used who had passed previously.

They entered the boat, and again the ferryman pushed off. They had reached the centre of the
stream, when he bethought him that it was then a good time to talk of his fee, and he resolved
to have it, if possible, ere they could escape him.

"But what do you mean to give me for my trouble, holy fathers?" he inquired. "Nothing for nothing,
ye know."

"We shall give you all that we have to bestow," replied one of the monks. "Won't that suffice?"

"What is that?" asked the ferryman.

"Nothing," said the monk who had answered him first.

"But our blessing," interposed the second monk.

"Blessing! bah! That won't do. I can't eat blessings!" responded the grumbling ferryman.

"Heaven will pay you," said the third monk.

"That won't do either," answered the enraged ferryman. "I'll put back again to Andernach!"

"Be it so," said the monks.

The ferryman put about the head of his boat, and began to row back towards Andernach, as he
had threatened. He had, however, scarcely made three strokes of his oars, when a high wind
sprang up and the waters began to rise and rage and foam, like the billows of a storm-vexed
sea. Soon a hurricane of the most fearful kind followed, and swept over the chafing face of
the stream. In his forty years' experience of the river, the ferryman had never before beheld
such a tempest--so dreadful and so sudden. He gave himself up for lost, threw down his oars,
and flung himself on his knees, praying to Heaven for mercy. At that moment two of the dark-robed
monks seized the oars which he had abandoned, while the third wrenched one of the thwarts of
the boat from its place in the centre. All three then began to belabour the wretched man with
all their might and main, until at length he lay senseless and without motion at the bottom
of the boat. The barque, which was now veered about, bore them rapidly towards their original
destination. The only words that passed on the occasion were an exclamation of the first monk
who struck the ferryman down.

"Steer your boat aright, friend," he cried, "if you value your life, and leave off your prating.
What have you to do with Heaven, or Heaven with you?"

When the poor ferryman recovered his senses, day had long dawned, and he was lying alone at
the bottom of his boat. He found that he had drifted below Hammerstein, close to the shore
of the right bank of the river. He could discover no trace of his companions. With much difficulty
he rowed up the river, and reached the shore.

He learned afterwards from a gossiping neighbour, that, as the man returned from Neuwied late
that night, or rather early the next morning, he met, just emerging from the Devil's House,
a large black chariot running on three huge wheels, drawn by four horses without heads. In
that vehicle he saw six monks seated vis-à-vis, apparently enjoying their morning ride. The
driver, a curious-looking carl, with a singularly long nose, took, he said, the road along
the edge of the river, and continued lashing his three coal-black, headless steeds at a tremendous
rate, until a sharp turn hid them from the man's view.

DOCTOR ALL-WISE.

There was a poor peasant, named Crab, who once drove two oxen, with a load of wood, into the
city, and there sold it for two dollars to a doctor. The doctor counted out the money to him
as he sat at dinner, and the peasant, seeing how well he fared, yearned to live like him, and
would needs be a doctor too. He stood a little while in thought, and at last asked if he could
not become a doctor.

"Oh yes," said the doctor, "that may be easily managed. In the first place you must purchase
an A, B, C book, only taking care that it is one that has got in the front of it a picture
of a cock crowing. Then sell your cart and oxen, and buy with the money clothes, and all the
other things needful. Thirdly, and lastly, have a sign painted with the words, 'I am Doctor
All-Wise,' and have it nailed up before the door of your house."

The peasant did exactly as he had been told; and after he had doctored a little while, it chanced
that a certain nobleman was robbed of a large sum of money. Some one told him that there lived
in the village hard by a Doctor All-Wise, who was sure to be able to tell him where his money
had gone. The nobleman at once ordered his carriage to be got ready and rode into the city,
and having come to the doctor, asked him if he was Dr. All-Wise.

"Oh yes," answered he, "I am Doctor All-Wise, sure enough."

"Will you go with me, then," said the nobleman, "and get me back my money?"

"To be sure I will," said the doctor; "but my wife Grethel must go with me."

The nobleman was pleased to hear this, made them both get into the carriage with him, and away
they all rode together. When they arrived at the nobleman's house dinner was already prepared,
and he desired the doctor to sit down with him.

"My wife Grethel, too," said the doctor.

As soon as the first servant brought in the first dish, which was some great delicacy, the
doctor nudged his wife, and said--

"Grethel, that is the first," meaning the first dish.

The servant overheard his remark, and thought he meant to say he was the first thief, which
was actually the case, so he was sore troubled, and said to his comrades--

"The doctor knows everything. Things will certainly fall out ill, for he said I was the first
thief."

The second servant would not believe what he said, but at last he was obliged, for when he
carried the second dish into the room, the doctor remarked to his wife--

"Grethel, that is the second."

The second servant was now as much frightened as the first, and was pleased to leave the apartment.
The third served no better, for the doctor said--

"Grethel, that is the third."

Now the fourth carried in a dish which had a cover on it, and the nobleman desired the doctor
to show his skill by guessing what was under the cover. Now it was a crab. The doctor looked
at the dish, and then at the cover, and could not at all divine what they contained, nor how
to get out of the scrape. At length he said, half to himself and half aloud--

"Alas! poor crab!"

When the nobleman heard this, he cried out--

"You have guessed it, and now I am sure you will know where my money is."

The servant was greatly troubled at this, and he winked to the doctor to follow him out of
the room, and no sooner did he do so than the whole four who had stolen the gold stood before
him, and said that they would give it up instantly, and give him a good sum to boot, provided
he would not betray them, for if he did their necks would pay for it. The doctor promised,
and they conducted him to the place where the gold lay concealed. The doctor was well pleased
to see it, and went back to the nobleman, and said--

"My lord, I will now search in my book and discover where the money is."

Now the fifth servant had crept into an oven to hear what the doctor said. He sat for some
time turning over the leaves of his A, B, C book, looking for the picture of the crowing cock,
and as he did not find it readily, he exclaimed--

"I know you are in here, and you must come out."

Then the man in the oven, thinking the doctor spoke of him, jumped out in a great fright, saying--

"The man knows everything."

Then Doctor All-Wise showed the nobleman where the gold was hidden, but he said nothing as
to who stole it. So he received a great reward from all parties, and became a very famous man.

THE WHITE MAIDEN.

It is now centuries since a young noble of the neighbourhood was hunting in the valleys which
lie behind the hills that skirt the Rhine opposite the ancient town of St. Goar. In the heat
of the pursuit he followed the game to the foot of the acclivity on which are seated the ruins
of Thurnberg, and there it disappeared all at once from his view. It was the noon of a midsummer
day, and the sun shone down on him with all its strength. Despairing of being able to find
the object of his pursuit, he determined to clamber up the steep hillside, and seek shelter
and repose in the shadow of the old castle, or, mayhap, in one of its many crumbling chambers.
With much labour he succeeded in reaching the summit, and there, fatigued with his toil, and
parched with a burning thirst, he flung himself on the ground beneath one of the huge towers,
some of whose remains still rear their heads on high, and stretched out his tired limbs in
the full enjoyment of rest.

"Now," said he, as he wiped the perspiration from his brow,--"now could I be happy indeed,
if some kind being would bring me a beaker of the cool wine, which, they say, is ages old,
down there in the cellars of this castle."

He had scarce spoken the words when a most beautiful maiden stepped forth from a cleft in the
ivy-covered ruin, bearing in one hand a huge silver beaker of an antique form, full to the
very brim of foaming wine. In her other hand she held a large bunch of keys of all sizes. She
was clad in white from head to foot, her hair was flaxen, her skin was like a lily, and she
had such loving eyes that they at once won the heart of the young noble.

"Here," said she, handing him the beaker, "thy wish is granted. Drink and be satisfied."

His heart leaped within him with joy at her condescension, and he emptied the contents of the
goblet at a single draught. All the while she looked at him in such a manner as to intoxicate
his very soul, so kindly and confidential were her glances. The wine coursed through his veins
like liquid fire, his heart soon burned with love for the maiden, and the fever of his blood
was by no means appeased by the furtive looks which ever and anon she cast upon him. She apparently
read his state of mind, and when his passion was at its highest pitch, and all restraint seemed
put an end to by the potent effects of love and wine, she disappeared in a moment by the way
she came. The noble rushed after her in the hope of detaining the fugitive, or, at least, of
catching a parting glimpse of her retreating form, but the ivy-encircled cleft, through which
she seemed to have flitted, looked as though it had not been disturbed for centuries, and as
he tried to force his way to the gloomy cavern below, a crowd of bats and owls and other foul
birds of evil omen, aroused from their repose, rose upwards, and, amidst dismal hootings and
fearful cries, almost flung him backward with the violence of their flight. He spent the remainder
of the afternoon in search of the lost one, but without success. At the coming of night he
wended his way homeward, weary, heart-sick, and overwhelmed with an indefinable sensation of
sadness.

From that day forth he was an altered man--altered in appearance as well as in mind and in
manners. Pleasure was a stranger to his soul, and he knew no longer what it was to enjoy peace.
Wherever he went, whatever pursuit he was engaged in, whether in the chase, in the hall, in
lady's bower, or in chapel, his eye only saw one object--the White Maiden. At the board she
stood in imagination always before him, offering to his fevered lips the cool, brimming beaker;
and in the long-drawn aisles of the chapel she was ever present, beckoning him from his devotions
to partake of the generous beverage which she still bore in her right hand. Every matron or
maiden he met seemed by some wondrous process to take her shape, and even the very trees of
the forest all looked to his thought like her.

