Tuesday.--Never saw in the flesh procession of Russian Convicts starting on their journey to
Siberia. Have read about it, though; have even seen pictures thereof. The most saddening and
soul-depressing of these came back to mind just now, when PULESTON, PELLY and BURDETT-COUTTS
forlornly filed forth at command of Chairman of Committees, amid cheers of heartless Opposition.
If they'd only been a little more ragged in appearance, and, above all, if they had been connected
by leg-chain, illusion would have been complete. Members on Front Benches, as they passed them,
wearily faring forth, could not have resisted natural impulse to feel in their waistcoat pocket
for a kopec or two to bestow upon the unfortunates.

It was the suddenness of the sentence, the swift falling of the blow, that made it so cruelly
heavy. Last Friday these three Members had supported a vote subsidising East Africa Co. in
matter of preliminary expenses of railway through their territory. Someone had discovered they
were pecuniarily interested in undertaking. To-day SWIFT MACNEILL raised the question of parliamentary
law in such cases. Moved Resolution that vote of three Members be disallowed.

Nothing could exceed gentleness of MACNEILL's demeanour. Rather in sorrow than in anger he
moved in the matter, anxious, as all Irish Members are, for purity of Parliamentary practice
and sanctity of constitutional principles. Almost blubbered in BURDETT-COUTTS's waistcoat;
embraced PELLY and PULESTON in comprehensive smile of amity.

Encouraged by this attitude, the three Members assumed easy, almost jaunty, manner. True, PULESTON
admitted he would not have done it if he'd thought anyone would have made a row about it--"as
the little boy said when he was being spanked for putting his fingers in the jam-pot," observed
MARJORIBANKS, sotto voce. BURDETT-COUTTS almost haughty in his defiance of the descendant of
the Uncle of JONATHAN SWIFT, Dean of St. Patrick's.

PELLY pensive in manner and enigmatical in allusion; felt it particularly hard thus to be placed
in the dock, as if he were an Irish County Councillor under Prince ARTHUR's new Bill. Only
last Friday, in debate preceding the very Division now under discussion, he had delivered an
Address which disclosed intimate acquaintance with topographical bearings of rarely trodden
wilds in Central Africa. Had shown how an Agent of East Africa Company, setting forth from
So-and-so, had, after perilous passage, reached So-on. After a night of broken rest, his pillow
soothed by the roar of GRANDOLPH's nine lions, he had set out again. Crossing the River So-forth
he wandered for hours, carrying the flag of his country through the limitless plains of Etcetera.

House listened entranced, whilst PELLY hurried them from So-on to So-forth.

"Excellent speech," said the SQUIRE OF MALWOOD, himself not unfamiliar with land-surveying;
"but the country seems a little monotonously named."

"It's not that," cried PELLY, interrupting; "the fact is, I can't pronounce the names in the
despatches, and call them So-on."

House delighted with this explanation; PELLY found himself at one bound in front rank of Parliamentary
orators. This only last Friday; to-day called upon to defend himself from charge of breaking
written law of Parliament. Bad this, but worse to come. When PELLY's pensive voice died away,
COURTNEY rose from Chair and sternly said, "In accordance with practice of the House, the three
Hon. Members will now withdraw." So they strode forth, clothed with innocence. PULESTON first,
with ghastly smile on his face; BURDETT-COUTTS next, wondering what they would think of this
in Stratton Street; PELLY bringing up the rear, the forlornest file that ever passed between
ranks of jeering spectators, slowly making their way from So-on to So-forth. Business done.--None.

Thursday.--"The Leadership isn't all beer and skittles, is it?" I said to Prince ARTHUR just
now, trying to put the best face on a melancholy business.

"No," he said, shortly, "and it isn't public business at all."

Quite true. What officers in command of sham-fights call "the general idea" of the Sitting
to-night, was--questions beginning at half-past three; over probably at four; House in Committee;
take up Army Estimates; peg away at them till midnight; then "Who goes home?" Time-table of
what actually took place slightly, but firmly different. House met at three; prayers, which
appropriately prefaced HENRY FOWLER's motion to permit Salvation Army to go its own way on
quiet Sabbaths at Eastbourne. Debated this till twenty minutes past six, the SOLICITOR-GENERAL
heartily joining in the service; then questions, seventy or eighty of them, not seven or eight
of public interest, the rest of character that might be raised on dull days in Vestry-hall.

At half-past seven, time to dress for dinner. Still, Members think they'll just wait and see
business commenced. "Instead of which," as the Judge said, up gets SWIFT MACNEILL, asking permission
to move Adjournment of House in order to discuss famine in India, and shortcomings of Indian
Government. SPEAKER invites those who support application to rise in their places. Gentlemen
below the Gangway, with hearts bleeding for famished fellow-creatures in far-off Ind (subject
reminds them, by the way, that dinner is nearly ready), leap to their feet. Twice the forty
necessary thus forthcoming; leave given, and SWIFT MACNEILL proceeds to open his budget. Then
strange thing happens. The eighty Gentlemen who sprang up to secure hearing for MACNEILL, being
on their legs, conclude that, as it's so near dinner-time, scarcely worth while resuming their
seat; so they bundle forth, MACNEILL, somewhat ungratefully (for they had secured his opportunity)
urging them to "be off, if they didn't want to hear about the sufferings of their fellow-creatures."

At ten o'clock MACNEILL episode closed. Prince ARTHUR moved, with intent to expedite business,
a Resolution taking Report of Supply after midnight. Talked on this till twenty minutes to
twelve. Business reached at last, but since Debate closes at midnight, no time to do anything.
Committee of Supply accordingly postponed, and Members begin chatting about Gresham College,
admitting in course of conversation that there is nothing to talk about, since Government have
adopted suggestion of objectors to scheme.

Business done.--None.

Friday.--MACNEILL the Avenger to the front again, with his Motion about the Siberian Exiles.
"JEMMY" LOWTHER, in most judicial manner, supports Motion, that votes of PELLY, PULESTON and
BURDETT-COUTTS on Mombasa Affair shall be struck out. Prince ARTHUR argues on other side; Mr.
G. throws weight of his authority into scale against the Exiles; JOKIM feebly attempts to reply.
On Division, in full House, Government defeated by five votes. MACNEILL's smile, as he announced
the figures, simply enormous. "At first I thought it was an earthquake," said STANHOPE, shuddering.
Nerves shattered by second defeat of Government in the week. Business done.--Looks as if the
Government's was--very nearly.