"Now, gentlemen, let us take into consideration these two instances which have occurred to
myself and see how equally unsatisfactory they are. The one too jealous, the other too forward.
Thus, early in life, I found out how little reliance was to be placed on such characters. And
now I think so still more; and this opinion applies more especially to the latter of the two.
Dewdrops on the 'Hagi flower' of beauty so delicate that they disappear as soon as we touch
them--hailstones on the bamboo grass that melt in our hand as soon as we prick them--appear
at a distance extremely tempting and attractive. Take my humble advice, however, and go not
near them. If you do not appreciate this advice now, the lapse of another seven years will
render you well able to understand that such adventures will only bring a tarnished fame."

Thus Sama-no-Kami admonished them, and Tô-no-Chiûjiô nodded as usual. Genji slightly smiled;
perhaps he thought it was all very true, and he said, "Your twofold experience was indeed disastrous
and irritating!"

"Now," said Tô-no-Chiûjiô, "I will tell you a story concerning myself. It was the evil fortune
of Sama-no-Kami to meet with too much jealousy in one of the ladies to whom he might otherwise
have given his heart; while he could feel no confidence in another owing to flirtations. It
was my hard lot to encounter an instance of excessive diffidence. I once knew a girl whose
person was altogether pleasing, and although I, too, had no intention, as Sama-no-Kami said,
of forming an everlasting connection with her, I nevertheless took a great fancy to her. As
our acquaintance was prolonged, our mutual affection grew warmer. My thoughts were always of
her, and she placed entire confidence in me. Now, when complete confidence is placed by one
person in another, does not Nature teach us to expect resentment when that confidence is abused?
No such resentment, however, seemed under any circumstances to trouble her. When I very seldom
visited her, she showed no excitement or indignation, but behaved and looked as if we had never
been separated from each other. This patient silence was more trying to me than reproaches.
She was parentless and friendless. For this reason responsibility weighed more heavily on me.
Abusing her gentle nature, however, I frequently neglected her. About this time, moreover,
a certain person who lived near her, discovered our friendship, and frightened her by sending,
through some channel, mischief-making messages to her. This I did not become aware of till
afterwards, and, it seems, she was quite cast down and helpless. She had a little one for whose
sake, it appears, she was additionally sad. One day I unexpectedly received a bunch of Nadeshiko[38]
flowers. They were from her."

At this point Tô-no-Chiûjiô became gloomy.

"And what," inquired Genji, "were the words of her message?"

"Sir! nothing but the verse,

    Forgot may be the lowly bed
      From which these darling flowerets spring,
    Still let a kindly dew be shed,
      Upon their early nurturing.

"No sooner had I read this than I went to her at once. She was gentle and sedate as usual,
but evidently absent and preoccupied. Her eyes rested on the dew lying on the grass in the
garden, and her ears were intent upon the melancholy singing of the autumn insects. It was
as if we were in a real romance. I said to her:--

    When with confused gaze we view
      The mingled flowers on gay parterre,
    Amid their blooms of radiant hue
      The Tokonatz,[39] my love, is there.

And avoiding all allusion to the Nadeshiko flowers, I repeatedly endeavored to comfort the
mother's heart. She murmured in reply:--

    'Ah! Flower already bent with dew,
      The winds of autumn cold and chill
    Will wither all thy beauteous hue,
      And soon, alas, unpitying kill.'

Thus she spoke sadly. But she reproached me no further. The tears came involuntarily into her
eyes. She was, however, apparently sorry for this, and tried to conceal them. On the whole
she behaved as if she meant to show that she was quite accustomed to such sorrows. I certainly
deeply sympathized with her, yet still further abusing her patience. I did not visit her again
for some time; but I was punished. When I did so she had flown, leaving no traces behind her.
If she is still living she must needs be passing a miserable existence.

"Now, if she had been free from this excessive diffidence, this apathy of calmness, if she
had complained when it was necessary, with becoming warmth and spirit, she need never have
been a wanderer, and I would never have abused her confidence. But, as I said before, a woman
who has no strength of emotion, no passionate bursts of sorrow or of joy, can never retain
a dominion over us.

"I loved this woman without understanding her nature; and I am constantly, but in vain, trying
to find her and her little darling, who was also very lovely; and often I think with grief
and pain that, though I may succeed in forgetting her, she may possibly not be able to forget
me, and, surely, there must be many an evening when she is disquieted by sad memories of the past.

"Let us now sum up our experiences, and reflect on the lessons which they teach us. One who
bites your finger will easily estrange your affection by her violence. Falseness and forwardness
will be the reproach of some other, in spite of her melodious music and the sweetness of her
songs. A third, too self-contained and too gentle, is open to the charge of a cold silence,
which oppresses one, and cannot be understood.

"Whom, then, are we to choose? All this variety, and this perplexing difficulty of choice,
seems to be the common lot of humanity. Where, again, I say, are we to go to find the one who
will realize our desires? Shall we fix our aspirations on the beautiful goddess, the heavenly
Kichijiô?[40] Ah! this would be but superstitious and impracticable."

So mournfully finished Tô-no-Chiûjiô; and all his companions, who had been attentively listening,
burst simultaneously into laughter at his last allusion.

"And now, Shikib, it is your turn. Tell us your story," exclaimed Tô-no-Chiûjiô, turning to him.

"What worth hearing can your humble servant tell you?"

"Go on; be quick; don't be shy; let us hear!"

Shikib-no-Jiô, after a little meditation, thus began:--

"When I was a student at the University, I met there with a woman of very unusual intelligence.
She was in every respect one with whom, as Sama-no-Kami has said, you could discuss affairs,
both public and private. Her dashing genius and eloquence were such that all ordinary scholars
would find themselves unable to cope with her, and would be at once reduced to silence. Now,
my story is as follows:--

"I was taking lessons from a certain professor, who had several daughters, and she was one
of them. It happened by some chance or other I fell much into her society. The professor, who
noticed this, once took up a wine-cup in his hand, and said to me, 'Hear what I sing about
two choices.'[41]

"This was a plain offer put before me, and thenceforward I endeavored, for the sake of his
tuition, to make myself as agreeable as possible to his daughter. I tell you frankly, however,
that I had no particular affection for her, though she seemed already to regard me as her victim.
She seized every opportunity of pointing out to me the way in which we should have to steer,
both in public and private life. When she wrote to me she never employed the effeminate style
of the Kana,[42] but wrote, oh! so magnificently! The great interest which she took in me induced
me to pay frequent visits to her; and, by making her my tutor, I learned how to compose ordinary
Chinese poems. However, though I do not forget all these benefits, and though it is no doubt
true that our wife or daughter should not lack intelligence, yet, for the life of me, I cannot
bring myself to approve of a woman like this. And still less likely is it that such could be
of any use to the wives of high personages like yourselves. Give me a lovable nature in lieu
of sharpness! I quite agree with Sama-no-Kami on this point."

"What an interesting woman she must have been," exclaimed Tô-no-Chiûjiô, with the intention
of making Shikib go on with his story.

This he fully understood, and, making a grimace, he thus proceeded:--

"Once when I went to her after a long absence--a way we all have, you know--she did not receive
me openly as usual, but spoke to me from behind a screen. I surmised that this arose from chagrin
at my negligence, and I intended to avail myself of this opportunity to break with her. But
the sagacious woman was a woman of the world, and not like those who easily lose their temper
or keep silence about their grief. She was quite as open and frank as Sama-no-Kami would approve
of. She told me, in a low clear voice, 'I am suffering from heartburn, and I cannot, therefore,
see you face to face; yet, if you have anything important to say to me, I will listen to you.'
This was, no doubt, a plain truth; but what answer could I give to such a terribly frank avowal?
'Thank you,' said I, simply; and I was just on the point of leaving, when, relenting, perhaps,
a little, she said aloud, 'Come again soon, and I shall be all right.' To pass this unnoticed
would have been impolite; yet I did not like to remain there any longer, especially under such
circumstances: so, looking askance, I said--

     Here I am, then why excuse me, is my visit all in vain:
     And my consolation is, you tell me, come again?

No sooner had I said this than she dashed out as follows with a brilliancy of repartee which
became a woman of her genius:--

     'If we fond lovers were, and meeting every night,
     I should not be ashamed, were it even in the light!'

"Nonsense, nonsense!" cried Genji and the others, who either were, or pretended to be, quite
shocked. "Where can there be such a woman as that? She must have been a devil! Fearful! fearful!"
And, snapping their fingers with disapproving glances, they said, "Do tell us something better--do
give us a better story than that."

Shikib-no-Jiô, however, quietly remarked: "I have nothing else to relate," and remained silent.

Hereupon a conversation took place to the following effect:--

"It is a characteristic of thoughtless people--and that, without distinction of sex--that they
try to show off their small accomplishments. This is, in the highest degree, unpleasant. As
for ladies, it may not, indeed, be necessary to be thorough master of the three great histories,
and the five classical texts; yet they ought not to be destitute of some knowledge of both
public and private affairs, and this knowledge can be imperceptibly acquired without any regular
study of them, which, though superficial, will yet be amply sufficient to enable them to talk
pleasantly about them with their friends. But how contemptible they would seem if this made
them vain of it! The Manna[43] style and pedantic phrases were not meant for them; and, if
they use them, the public will only say, 'would that they would remember that they are women
and not men,' and they would only incur the reproach of being pedants, as many ladies, especially
among the aristocracy, do. Again, while they should not be altogether unversed in poetical
compositions, they should never be slaves to them, or allow themselves to be betrayed into
using strange quotations, the only consequence of which would be that they would appear to
be bold when they ought to be reserved, and abstracted when very likely they have practical
duties to attend to. How utterly inappropriate, for instance, it would be on the May festival[44]
if, while the attention of all present was concentrated on the solemnity of the occasion, the
thoughts of these ladies were wandering on their own poetical imaginations about 'sweet flags;'
or if, again, on the Ninth-day festival,[45] when all the nobles present were exercising their
inventive faculties on the subject of Chinese poems, they were to volunteer to pour forth their
grand ideas on the dew-laid flowers of the chrysanthemum, thus endeavoring to rival their opponents
of the stronger sex. There is a time for everything; and all people, but more especially women,
should be constantly careful to watch circumstances, and not to air their accomplishments at
a time when nobody cares for them. They should practise a sparing economy in displaying their
learning and eloquence, and should even, if circumstances require, plead ignorance on subjects
with which they are familiar."

As to Genji, even these last observations seemed only to encourage his reverie still to run
upon a certain one, whom he considered to be the happy medium between the too much and the
too little; and, no definite conclusion having been arrived at through the conversation, the
evening passed away.

The long-continued rainy weather had now cleared up bright and fine, and the Prince Genji proceeded
to the mansion of his father-in-law, where Lady Aoi, his bride, still resided with him. She
was in her private suite of apartments, and he soon joined her there. She was dignified and
stately, both in manners and demeanor, and everything about her bore traces of scrupulous neatness.

"Such may be one of those described by Sama-no-Kami, in whom we may place confidence," he thought,
as he approached her. At the same time, her lofty queenliness caused him to feel a momentary
embarrassment, which he at once tried to hide by chatting with the attendant maid. The air
was close and heavy, and he was somewhat oppressed by it. His father-in-law happened to pass
by the apartment. He stopped and uttered a few words from behind the curtain which overhung
the door. "In this hot weather," said Genji, in a low tone, "what makes him come here?" and
did not give the slightest encouragement to induce his father-in-law to enter the room; so
he passed along. All present smiled significantly, and tittered. "How indiscreet!" exclaimed
Genji, glancing at them reprovingly, and throwing himself back on a kiô-sok (arm-stool), where
he remained calm and silent.

It was, by no means, becoming behavior on the part of the Prince.

The day was drawing to an end when it was announced that the mansion was closed in the certain
celestial direction of the Naka-gami (central God).[46] His own mansion in Nijiô (the one mentioned
as being repaired in a previous chapter) was also in the same line of direction.

"Where shall I go then?" said Genji, and without troubling himself any further, went off into
a doze. All present expressed in different words their surprise at his unusual apathy. Thereupon
some one reported that the residence of Ki-no-Kami, who was in waiting on the Prince, on the
banks of the middle river (the River Kiôgok) had lately been irrigated by bringing the stream
into its gardens, making them cool and refreshing.

"That's very good, especially on such a close evening," exclaimed Genji, rousing himself, and
he at once intimated to Ki-no-Kami his desire of visiting his house. To which the latter answered
simply, "Yes." He did not, however, really like the Prince's visit, and was reluctantly telling
his fellow attendants that, owing to a certain circumstance which had taken place at Iyo-no-Kami's[47]
residence, his wife (Ki-no-Kami's stepmother) had taken up her abode with him that very evening,
and that the rooms were all in confusion.

Genji heard all this distinctly, but he would not change his mind, and said, "That is all the
better! I don't care to stay in a place where no fair statue dwells; it is slow work."

Being thus pressed, no alternative remained for the Ki-no-Kami, and a messenger was despatched
to order the preparation of apartments for the Prince. Not long after this messenger had gone,
Genji started on his way to the house of Ki-no-Kami, whose mild objections against this quick
proceeding were not listened to.

He left the mansion as quietly as possible, even without taking formal leave of its master,
and his escort consisted of a few favorite attendants.

The "eastern front room" in the "dwelling quarters" was wide open, and a temporary arrangement
was made for the reception of the Prince, who arrived there very quickly. The scene of the
garden struck him before anything else. The surface of the lake sparkled with its glittering
waters. The hedges surrounded it in rustic beauty, and luxuriant shrubs grew in pleasing order.
Over all the fair scene the breeze of evening swept softly, summer insects sang distinctly
here and there, and the fireflies hovered about in mazy dances.

The escort took up its quarters in a position which overlooked the stream of water which ran
beneath the corridor, and here began to take cups of saké. The host hastened to order also
some refreshment to be prepared for Genji.

The latter was meanwhile gazing abstractedly about him, thinking such a place might belong
to the class which Sama-no-Kami fairly placed in the middle category. He knew that the lady
who was under the same roof was a young beauty of whom he had heard something before, and he
was looking forward to a chance of seeing her.

He then noticed the rustling of a silken dress escaping from a small boudoir to the right,
and some youthful voices, not without charm, were also heard, mingled with occasional sounds
of suppressed laughter. The casement of the boudoir had been, until a short time before, open,
but was pulled down by order of Ki-no-Kami, who, perhaps, doubted the propriety of its being
as it was, and now only allowed a struggling light to issue through the paper of the "sliding
screen!" He proceeded to one side of his room that he might see what could be seen, but there
was no chance. He still stood there that he might be able, at least, to catch some part of
the conversation. It seems that this boudoir adjoined the general family room of the female
inmates, and his ears were greeted by some faint talking. He inclined his head attentively,
and heard them whispering probably about himself.

"Is it not a pity that the fate of so fine a prince should be already fixed?" said one voice.

"Yet he loses no opportunity of availing himself of the favors of fortune," added another.

These remarks may have been made with no serious intention, but as to Genji, he, even in hearing
them, could not help thinking of a certain fair image of which he so fondly dreamt. At the
same time feeling a thrill on reflecting that, if this kind of secret were to be discovered
and discussed in such a manner, what could be done.

He then heard an observation in delicate allusion to his verse which he had presented to the
Princess Momo-zono (peach-gardens) with the flowers of Asagao (morning-glory, or convolvulus).

"What cautious beauties they are to talk in that way! But I wonder if their forms when seen
will answer to the pictures of my fancy," thought Genji, as he retired to his original position,
for he could hear nothing more interesting.

Ki-no-Kami presently entered the room, brought in some fruits, trimmed the lamp, and the visitor
and host now began to enjoy a pleasant leisure.

"What has become of the ladies? Without some of them no society is cheerful," observed Genji.

"Who can there be to meet such wishes?" said the Ki-no-Kami to himself, but took no notice
of Genji's remark.

There were several boys in the house who had followed Ki-no-Kami into the room. They were the
sons and brothers of Ki-no-Kami. Among them there was one about twelve or thirteen, who was
nicer-looking than the others. Genji, of course, did not know who they all were, and accordingly
made inquiries. When he came to the last-mentioned boy, Ki-no-Kami replied:--

"He is the youngest son of the late Lord Yemon, now an orphan, and, from his sister's connections,
he is now staying here. He is shrewd and unlike ordinary boys. His desire is to take Court
service, but he has as yet no patron."

"What a pity! Is, then, the sister you mentioned your stepmother?"

"Yes, sir, it is so."

"What a good mother you have got. I once overheard the Emperor, to whom, I believe, a private
application had been some time made in her behalf, referring to her, said, 'What has become
of her?' Is she here now?" said Genji; and lowering his voice, added, "How changeable are the
fortunes of the world!"

"It is her present state, sir. But, as you may perceive, it differs from her original expectation.
Changeable indeed are the fortunes of this world, especially so the fortunes of women!"

"Does Iyo respect her? Perhaps he idolizes her, as his master."

"That is a question, perhaps, as a private master. I am the foremost to disapprove of this
infatuation on his part."

"Are you? Nevertheless he trusts her to such a one as you. He is a kind father! But where are
they all?"

"All in their private apartments."

Genji by this time apparently desired to be alone, and Ki-no-Kami now retired with the boys.
All the escort were already slumbering comfortably, each on his own cool rush mat, under the
pleasant persuasion of saké.

Genji was now alone. He tried to doze, but could not. It was late in the evening, and all was
still around. His sharpened senses made him aware that the room next but one to his own was
occupied, which led him to imagine that the lady of whom he had been speaking might be there.
He rose softly, and once more proceeded to the other side of the room to listen to what he
might overhear. He heard a tender voice, probably that of Kokimi, the boy spoken of before,
who appeared to have just entered the room, saying:--

"Are you here?"

To which a female voice replied, "Yes, dear, but has the visitor yet retired?" And the same
voice added--

"Ah! so near, and yet so far!"

"Yes, I should think so, he is so nice-looking, as they say."

"Were it daytime I would see him, too," said the lady in a drowsy voice.

"I shall go to bed, too! But what a bad light," said the boy, and Genji conjectured that he
had been trimming the lamp.

The lady presently clapped her hands for a servant, and said, "Where is Chiûjiô, I feel lonely,
I wish to see her."

"Madam, she is in the bath now, she will be here soon," replied the servant.

"Suppose I pay my visit to her, too? What harm! no harm, perhaps," said Genji to himself. He
withdrew the fastening of the intervening door, on the other side there was none, and it opened.
The entrance to the room where the lady was sitting was only screened by a curtain, with a
glimmering light inside. By the reflection of this light he saw travelling trunks and bags
all scattered about; through these he groped his way and approached the curtain. He saw, leaning
on a cushion, the small and pretty figure of a lady, who did not seem to notice his approach,
probably thinking it was Chiûjiô, for whom she had sent. Genji felt nervous, but struggling
against the feeling, startled the lady by saying:--

"Chiûjiô was called for, I thought it might mean myself, and I come to offer you my devoted
services."

This was really an unexpected surprise, and the lady was at a loss.

"It is, of course, natural," he said, "you should be astonished at my boldness, but pray excuse
me. It is solely from my earnest desire to show at such an opportunity the great respect for
you which I have felt for a very long time."

He was clever enough to know how to speak, and what to say, under all circumstances, and made
the above speech in such an extremely humble and insinuating manner that the demon himself
could not have taken offence, so she forbore to show any sudden resentment. She had, however,
grave doubts as to the propriety of his conduct, and felt somewhat uncomfortable, saying shyly,
"Perhaps you have made a mistake!"

"No, certainly not," he replied. "What mistake can I have made? On the other hand, I have no
wish to offend you. The evening, however, is very irksome, and I should feel obliged if you
would permit me to converse with you." Then gently taking her hand he pressed her to return
with him to his lonely apartment.

She was still young and weak, and did not know what was most proper to do under these circumstances,
so half yielding, half reluctantly was induced to be led there by him.

At this juncture Chiûjiô, for whom she had sent previously, entered the room. Upon which Genji
exclaimed "Ha!"

Chiûjiô stared with astonishment at him, whom she at once recognized as the Prince, by the
rich perfume which he carried about him.

"What does this mean?" thought Chiûjiô. She could still do nothing. Had he been an ordinary
personage she would have immediately seized him. Even in that case, however, there was enough
room to doubt whether it would not have been better to avoid any violent steps lest it might
have given rise to a disagreeable family scandal, hence Chiûjiô was completely perplexed and
mechanically followed them.

Genji was too bold to fear bystanders, a common fault with high personages, and coolly closed
the door upon her saying, "She will soon return to you."

The lady being placed in such an awkward position, and not knowing what Chiûjiô might imagine,
became, as it were, bewildered. Genji was, however, as artful and insinuating as might be expected
in consoling her, though we do not know where he had learnt his eloquence. This was really
trying for her, and she said, "Your condescension is beyond my merit. I cannot disregard it.
It is, however, absolutely necessary to know 'Who is who.'"

"But such ignorance," he a little abashed, rejoined "as not to know 'Who is who,' is the very
proof of my inexperience. Were I supposed to understand too well, I should indeed be sorry.
You have very likely heard how little I mix in the world. This perhaps is the very reason why
you distrust me. The excess of the blindness of my mind seems strange even to myself."

He spoke thus insinuatingly. She, on her part, feared that if his fascinating address should
assume a warmer tone it would be still more trying for her and more difficult to withstand,
so she determined, however hard she might appear, not to give any encouragement to his feelings,
and showed therefore a coolness of manner. To her meek character there was thus added a firm
resolution, and it seemed like a young bamboo reed with its strength and tenderness combined,
difficult to bend! Still she felt the struggle very keenly, and tears moistened her eyes.

Genji could not help feeling touched. Not knowing exactly how to soothe her, he exclaimed,
"What makes you treat me so coolly? It is true we are not old acquaintances, but it does not
follow that this should prevent us from becoming good friends. Please don't discompose yourself
like one who does not know the world at all: it pierces my heart."

This speech touched her, and her firmness began to waver.

"Were my position what it once was," said she, "and I received such attention, I might, however
unworthy, have been moved by your affection, but as my position in life is now changed, its
unsatisfactory condition often makes me dream of a happiness I cannot hope to enjoy." Hereupon
she remained silent for some moments, and looked as if she meant to say that she could no longer
help thinking of the line:--

     Don't tell anyone you've seen my home.

But these few moments of silence agitated the pure waters of her virtuous mind, and the sudden
recollection of her aged husband, whom she did not generally think much about, occurred tenderly
to her memory. She shuddered at the idea of his seeing her in such a dilemma as this, even
in a dream, and without a word fled back to her apartment, and Genji was once more alone.

Now the chanticleer began to proclaim the coming day, and the attendants rose from their couches,
some exclaiming "How soundly we have slept," others, "Let us get the carriage ready."

Ki-no-Kami also came out saying, "Why so early, no need of such hurry for the Prince."

Genji also arose, and putting on his naoshi, went out on a balcony on the southern side of
the house, where he leaned upon the wooden balustrade and meditated as he looked round him.

It appears that people were peeping out of the casement on the western side, probably being
anxious to catch a glimpse of the Prince, whose figure was indistinctly to be seen by them
from the top of a short screen standing within the trellis. Among these spectators there was
one who perhaps might have felt a thrill run through her frame as she beheld him. It was the
very moment when the sky was being tinted by the glowing streaks of morn, and the moon's pale
light was still lingering in the far distance. The aspect of the passionless heavens becomes
radiant or gloomy in response to the heart of him who looks upon it. And to Genji, whose thoughts
were secretly occupied with the events of the evening, the scene could only have given rise
to sorrowful emotions.

Reflecting how he might on some future occasion convey a message to the lady, and looking back
several times, he presently quitted the house and returned to the mansion of his father-in-law.

During some days succeeding the above events, he was staying at the mansion with his bride.
His thoughts, however, were now constantly turning to the lady on the bank of the middle river.
He therefore summoned Ki-no-Kami before him, and thus addressed him:--

"Cannot you let me have the boy, the son of the late Chiûnagon[48] whom I saw the other day?
He is a nice lad, and I wish to have him near at hand. I will also introduce him to the Emperor."

"I receive your commands. I will talk with his sister, and see if she consents to it," replied
Ki-no-Kami with a bow.

These last words alluding to the object which occupied his thoughts caused Genji to start,
but he said with apparent calmness--

"Has the lady presented you yet with a brother or a sister?"

"No, sir, not yet; she has been married now these two years, but it seems she is always thinking
she is not settled in the way her parents desired, and is not quite contented with her position."

"What a pity! I heard, however, she was a very good lady. Is it so?"

"Yes, I quite believe so; but hitherto we have lived separately, and were not very cordial,
which, as all the world knows, is usual in such relationship."

After the lapse of five or six days the boy Kokimi was brought to him. He was not tall or handsome
but very intelligent, and in manners perfectly well-bred. Genji treated him with the greatest
kindness, at which, in his boyish mind, he was highly delighted. Genji now asked him many questions
about his sister, to which he gave such answers as he could, but often with shyness and diffidence.
Hence Genji was unable to take him into his confidence, but by skilfully coaxing and pleasing
him, he ventured to hand him a letter to be taken to his sister. The boy, though he possibly
guessed at its meaning, did not trouble himself much, but taking it, duly delivered it to his
sister. She became confused and thoughtful as she took it, and fearing what the boy might think,
opened the letter and held it before her face as she read, in order to conceal the expression
of her countenance.

It was a long one, and among other things contained the following lines:--

    I had a dream, a dream so sweet,
      Ah! would that I could dream again;
    Alas, no sleep these eyes will greet,
      And so I strive to dream in vain!

It was beautifully written, and as her eyes fell upon the passionate words, a mist gathered
over them, and a momentary thought of her own life and position once more flashed over her
mind, and without a word of comment to the boy, she retired to rest.

A few days afterwards Kokimi was again invited to join the Prince. Thereupon he asked his sister
to give him an answer to the Prince's letter.

"Tell the Prince," she said, "there is no one here who reads such letters."

"But," said the boy, "he does not expect such an answer as this! How can I tell him so?"

At first, she half-resolved to explain everything to Kokimi, and to make him thoroughly understand
why she ought not to receive such letters, but the effort was too painful, so she simply said,
"It is all the better for you not to talk in that way. If you think it so serious why should
you go to him at all?"

"Yet, how can I disobey his commands to go back?" exclaimed the boy, and so he returned to
Genji without any written answer to him.

"I was weary of waiting for you. Perhaps you, too, had forgotten me," said Genji, when he saw
the boy, who was, however, silent and blushed. "And what answer have you brought me?" continued
Genji, and then the boy replied in the exact words which his sister had used.

"What?" cried Genji: and continued, "Perhaps you may not know, so I will tell you. I knew your
sister before she knew Iyo. But she likes to treat me so because she thinks she has got a very
good friend in Iyo; but do you be like a brother to me. The days of Iyo will be probably fewer
than mine."

He now returned to the Palace taking Komini with him, and, going to his dressing-room, attired
him nicely in the Court style; in a word, he treated him as a parent would do.

By the boy's assistance several more letters were conveyed to his sister. Her resolution, however,
remained unshaken.

"If one's heart were once to deviate from the path," she reflected, "the only end we could
expect would be a damaged reputation and misery for life: the good and the bad result from
one's self!"

Thus thinking, she resolved to return no answer. She might, indeed, have admired the person
of Genji, and probably did so, yet, whenever such feelings came into her mind, the next thought
that suggested itself was, "What is the use of such idle admiration?"

Meanwhile, Genji was often thinking of paying a visit to the house where she was staying, but
he did not consider it becoming to do so, without some reasonable pretext, more especially
as he would have been sorry, and for her sake more than his own, to draw a suspicion upon her.

It happened, however, after a prolonged residence at the Court, that another occasion of closing
the Palace in the certain celestial line of direction arrived. Catching at this opportunity
he left the Palace, and suddenly turning out of his road, went straight to Ki-no-Kami's residence,
with the excuse that he had just discovered the above fact on his way. Ki-no-Kami surprised
at this unexpected visit, had only to bow before him, and acknowledge the honor of his presence.
The boy, Kokimi, was already there before him, having been secretly informed of his intention
beforehand, and he attended on him as usual in his apartment on his arrival.

The lady, who had been told by her brother that the Prince earnestly desired to see her, knew
well how dangerous it was to approach an inviting flower growing on the edge of a precipice.
She was not, of course, insensible to his coming in such a manner, with an excuse for the sake
of seeing her, but she did not wish to increase her dreamlike inquietude by seeing him. And
again, if he ventured to visit her apartment, as he did before, it might be a serious compromise
for her.

For these reasons she retired while her brother was with Genji, to a private chamber of Chiûjiô,
her companion, in the rear of the main building, under the pretence that her own room was too
near that of the Prince, besides she was indisposed and required "Tataki,"[49] which she desired
to have done in a retired part of the house.

Genji sent his attendants very early to their own quarters, and then, through Kokimi, requested
an interview with the lady. Kokimi at first was unable to find her, till after searching everywhere,
he, at last, came to the apartment of Chiûjiô, and with great earnestness endeavored to persuade
her to see Genji, in an anxious and half trembling voice, while she replied in a tone slightly
angry, "What makes you so busy? Why do you trouble yourself? Boys carrying such messages are
highly blamable."

After thus daunting him, she added, more mildly, "Tell the Prince I am somewhat indisposed,
and also that some friends are with me, and I cannot well leave them now." And she again cautioned
the boy not to be too officious, and sent him away from her at once.

Yet, at the bottom of her heart, different feelings might have been struggling from those which
her words seemed to express, and some such thoughts as these shaped themselves to her mind:
"Were I still a maiden in the home of my beloved parents, and occasionally received his visits
there, how happy might I not be? How trying to act as if no romantic sentiment belonged to
my heart!"

Genji, who was anxiously waiting to know how the boy would succeed in persuading his sister,
was soon told that all his efforts were in vain. Upon hearing this he remained for some moments
silent, and then relieved his feelings with a long-drawn sigh, and hummed:--

    "The Hahaki-gi[50] distant tree
      Spreads broom-like o'er the silent waste;
    Approach, how changed its shape we see,
      In vain we try its shade to taste."

The lady was unable to sleep, and her thoughts also took the following poetic shape:--

    Too like the Hahaki-gi tree,
      Lonely and humble, I must dwell,
    Nor dare to give a thought to thee,
      But only sigh a long farewell.

All the other inmates of the house were now in a sound slumber, but sleep came not to Genji's
eyes. He did, indeed, admire her immovable and chaste nature, but this only drew his heart
more towards her. He was agitated. At one moment he cried, "Well, then!" at another, "However!"
"Still!" At last, turning to the boy, he passionately exclaimed, "Lead me to her at once!"

Kokimi calmly replied, "It is impossible, too many eyes are around us!"

Genji with a sigh then threw himself back on the cushion, saying to Kokimi, "You, at least,
will be my friend, and shall share my apartment!"

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 22: A hero of an older fiction, who is represented as the perfect ideal of a gallant.]

[Footnote 23: A fast observed when some remarkable or supernatural event took place, or on
the anniversary of days of domestic misfortune.]

[Footnote 24: A general of the Imperial Guards.]

[Footnote 25: Love letters generally are not signed or are signed with a fancy name.]

[Footnote 26: Left Master of the Horse.]

[Footnote 27: Secretary to the Master of Ceremonies.]

[Footnote 28: Deputy-governors of provinces. In those days these functionaries were greatly
looked down upon by the Court nobles, and this became one of the causes of the feudal system.]

[Footnote 29: The naoshi is an outer attire. It formed part of a loose and unceremonious Court
dress.]

[Footnote 30: This alludes to a common habit of women, who push back their hair before commencing
any task.]

[Footnote 31: Some kinds of nuns did not shave their heads, and this remark seems to allude
to the common practice of women who often involuntarily smooth their hair before they see people,
which practice comes, no doubt, from the idea that the beauty of women often depends on the
tidiness of their hair.]

[Footnote 32: This means that her soul, which was sinful, would not go at once to its final
resting-place, but wander about in unknown paths.]

[Footnote 33: A mountain spoken of in Chinese literature. It was said to be in the Eastern
Ocean, and people of extraordinary long lives, called Sennin, were supposed to dwell there.]

[Footnote 34: In China and Japan handwriting is considered no less an art than painting.]

[Footnote 35: An ideal woman patroness of the art of dyeing.]

[Footnote 36: The weaver, or star Vega. In the Chinese legend she is personified as a woman
always engaged in weaving.]

[Footnote 37: In the same legend, it is said that this weaver, who dwells on one side of the
Milky Way in the heavens, meets her lover--another star called Hikoboshi, or the bull-driver--once
every year, on the evening of the seventh day of the seventh month. He dwelt on the other side
of the Milky Way, and their meeting took place on a bridge, made by birds (jays), by the intertwining
of their wings. It was this which gave rise to the popular festival, which takes place on this
day, both in China and Japan.]

[Footnote 38: Little darlings--a kind of pink.]

[Footnote 39: The Tokonatz (everlasting summer) is another name for the pink, and it is poetically
applied to the lady whom we love.]

[Footnote 40: A female divinity in Indian mythology.]

[Footnote 41: From the Chinese poet Hak-rak-ten, who was mentioned before. He says in one of
his poems: "Once upon a time a certain host invited to his abode a clever match-maker. When
the guests were assembled he poured forth wine into a beautiful jar, and said to all present,
'drink not for a moment, but hear what I say about the two choices, daughters of the rich get
married soon, but snub their husbands, daughters of the poor get married with difficulty but
dearly love their mothers-in-law.'"]

[Footnote 42: A soft style of Japanese writing commonly used by ladies.]

[Footnote 43: A stiff and formal style of Japanese writing.]

[Footnote 44: The fifth of May is one of the five important national festivals. A solemn celebration
of this fête used to be performed at Court. It is sometimes called the festival of the "Sweet
Flags,"--calami aromatici--because it was held at the season when those beautiful water-plants
were in the height of perfection.]

[Footnote 45: Another of the five above-mentioned. It was held on the ninth of September, and
it was customary on the occasion for rhymes to be given out to those present, wherewith to
compose Chinese poems. It was sometimes called the "Chrysanthemum Festival," for the same reason
that the celebration of the fifth of May was termed the "Sweet Flag Festival."]

[Footnote 46: This is an astrological superstition. It is said that when this God is in any
part of the compass, at the time being, it is most unlucky to proceed towards it, and to remain
in the same line of its direction.]

[Footnote 47: The deputy governor of the province Iyo; he is supposed to be in the province
at this time, leaving his young wife and family behind.]

[Footnote 48: The father of Kokimi seems to have been holding the office Yemon-no-Kami as well
as Chiûnagon.]

[Footnote 49: Tataki, or Amma, a sort of shampooing, a very common medical treatment in Japan.]

[Footnote 50: Hahaki-gi, the broom-like tree, is said to have been a certain tree growing in
the plain of Sonohara, so called from its shape, which, at a distance, looked like a spreading
broom, but when one comes near, its appearance was totally changed.]

CHAPTER III

BEAUTIFUL CICADA

Genji was still sleepless! "Never have I been so badly treated. I have now discovered what
the disappointment of the world means," he murmured, while the boy Kokimi lay down beside him
fast asleep. The smallness of his stature, and the graceful waving of his short hair, could
not but recall to Genji the beautiful tresses of his sister, and bring her image vividly before
him; and, long before the daylight appeared, he rose up, and returned to his residence with
all speed. For some time after this no communication took place between the lady and himself.
He could not, however, banish her from his thoughts, and he said to Kokimi that "he felt his
former experience too painful, and that he strove to drive away his care; yet in vain; his
thoughts would not obey his wish, and he begged him, therefore, to seek some favorable opportunity
for him to see her." Kokimi, though he did not quite like the task, felt proud of being made
his confidant, and thenceforward looked incessantly, with keen boyish eyes, for a chance of
obliging him.

Now, it happened that Ki-no-Kami went down to his official residence in his province, and only
the female members of his family were left at home. "This is the time," said Kokimi to himself,
and went to Genji, and persuaded him to come with him. "What can the boy do?" thought Genji;
"I fear not very much, but I must not expect too much"; and they started at once, in Kokimi's
carriage, so as to arrive in good time.

The evening was darkening round them, and they drew up on one side of the house, where few
persons were likely to observe them. As it happened to be Kokimi who had come, no fuss was
made about his arrival, nor any notice taken of it. He entered the house; and, leaving the
Prince in the Eastern Hall, proceeded first into the inner room. The casement was closed.

"How is it the casement is closed?" he demanded of the servants. They told him "That the Lady
of the West (Ki-no-Kami's sister, so called by the domestics from her living to the westward
of the house) was there on a visit since noon, and was playing Go with his sister." The door
by which the boy had entered the room was not entirely closed. Genji softly came up to it,
and the whole interior of the apartment was visible. He stood facing the west. On one side
of the room was a folding screen, one end of which was pushed back, and there was nothing besides
to obstruct his view. His first glance fell on the fair figure of her of whom he had so fondly
dreamt, sitting by a lamp near a central pillar. She wore a dress of dark purple, and a kind
of scarf thrown over her shoulders; her figure was slight and delicate, and her face was partly
turned aside, as if she did not like to expose it even to her companions. Her hands were prettily
shaped and tiny, and she used them with a gentle reserve, half covering them. Another lady,
younger than herself, sat facing the east--that is, just opposite Genji--and was, therefore,
entirely visible to him. She was dressed in a thin white silk, with a Ko-uchiki (outer vestment),
worked with red and blue flowers, thrown loosely over it, and a crimson sash round her waist.
Her bosom was partly revealed; her complexion very fair; her figure rather stout and tall;
the head and neck in good proportions, and the lips and eyelids lovely. The hair was not very
long, but reached in wavy lines to her shoulders.

"If a man had such a daughter, he might be satisfied," thought Genji. "But perhaps she may
be a little deficient in quietness. No matter how this may be, she has sufficient attractions."

The game was drawing to a close, and they paid very little attention to Kokimi on his entrance.
The principal interest in it was over; they were hurrying to finish it. One was looking quietly
at the board, and said, "Let me see, that point must be Ji. Let me play the Kôh[51] of this
spot." The other saying, "I am beaten; let me calculate," began to count on her fingers the
number of spaces at each corner, at the same time saying "Ten! twenty! thirty! forty!" When
Genji came in this way to see them together, he perceived that his idol, in the matter of personal
beauty, was somewhat inferior to her friend. He was not, indeed, able to behold the full face
of the former; yet, when he shifted his position, and fixed his gaze steadfastly upon her,
the profile became distinct. He observed that her eyelids were a little swollen, and the line
of the nose was not very delicate. He still admired her, and said to himself, "But perhaps
she is more sweet-tempered than the others"; but when he again turned his eyes to the younger
one, strange to say the calm and cheerful smile which occasionally beamed in her face touched
the heart of Genji; moreover, his usual interviews with ladies generally took place in full
ceremony. He had never seen them in so familiar an attitude before, without restraint or reserve,
as on the present occasion, which made him quite enjoy the scene. Kokimi now came out, and
Genji retired stealthily to one side of the door along the corridor. The former, who saw him
there, and supposed he had remained waiting in the place he had left him all the while, apologized
for keeping him so long, and said: "A certain young lady is now staying here; I am sorry, but
I did not dare mention your visit."

"Do you mean to send me away again disappointed? How inglorious it is," replied Genji.

"No; why so? The lady may leave shortly. I will then announce you."

Genji said no more. The ladies had by this time concluded their game, and the servants, who
were about to retire to their own apartments, cried out, "Where is our young master? we must
close this door."

"Now is the time; pray take me there; don't be too late. Go and ask," said Genji.

Kokimi knew very well how hard was his task to persuade his sister to see the Prince, and was
meditating taking him into her room, without her permission, when she was alone. So he said,
hesitatingly, "Please wait a little longer, till the other lady, Ki-no-Kami's sister, goes away."

"Is Ki-no's sister here? So much the better. Please introduce me to her before she leaves,"
said Genji.

"But!"

"But what? Do you mean that she is not worth seeing?" retorted Genji; and would fain have told
the boy that he had already seen her, but thought it better not to do so, and continued: "Were
we to wait for her to retire, it would become too late; we should have no chance."

Hereupon Kokimi determined to risk a little, and went back to his sister's room, rolling up
a curtain which hung in his way. "It is too warm--let the air in!" he cried, as he passed through.
After a few minutes he returned, and led Genji to the apartment on his own responsibility.
The lady with the scarf (his sister), who had been for some time fondly supposing that Genji
had given up thinking about her, appeared startled and embarrassed when she saw him; but, as
a matter of course, the usual courtesies were paid. The younger lady, however (who was free
from all such thoughts), was rather pleased at his appearance. It happened that, when the eyes
of the younger were turned in another direction, Genji ventured to touch slightly the shoulder
of his favorite, who, startled at the action rose suddenly and left the room, on pretence of
seeking something she required, dropping her scarf in her haste, as a cicada casts off its
tender wingy shell, and leaving her friend to converse with the Prince. He was chagrined, but
did not betray his vexation either by words or looks, and now began to carry on a conversation
with the lady who remained, whom he had already admired. Here his usual bold flirtation followed.
The young lady, who was at first disturbed at his assurance, betrayed her youthful inexperience
in such matters; yet for an innocent maiden, she was rather coquettish, and he went on flirting
with her.

"Chance meetings like this," said he, "often arise from deeper causes than those which take
place in the usual routine of things, so at least say the ancients. If I say I love you, you
might not believe me; and yet, indeed, it is so. Do think of me! True, we are not yet quite
free, and perhaps I might not be able to see you so often as I wish; but I hope you will wait
with patience, and not forget me."

"Truly, I also fear what people might suspect; and, therefore, I may not be able to communicate
with you at all," said she, innocently.

"Perhaps it might not be desirable to employ any other hand," he rejoined. "If you only send
your message, say through Kokimi, there would not be any harm."

Genji now rose to depart, and slyly possessed himself of the scarf which had been dropped by
the other lady. Kokimi, who had been dozing all the time, started up suddenly when Genji roused
him. He then led the latter to the door. At this moment, the tremulous voice of an aged female
domestic, who appeared quite unexpectedly, exclaimed--

"Who is there?"

To which Kokimi immediately replied, "It is I!"

"What brings you here so late?" asked the old woman, in a querulous tone.

"How inquisitive! I am now going out. What harm?" retorted the boy, rather scornfully; and,
stepping up to the threshold, gave Genji a push over it, when all at once the shadow of his
tall figure was projected on the moonlit floor.

"Who's that?" cried the old woman sharply, and in alarm; but the next moment, without waiting
for any reply, mumbled on: "Ah, ah! 'tis Miss Mimb, no wonder so tall."

This remark seemed to allude to one of her fellow-servants, who must have been a stalwart maiden,
and the subject of remarks among her companions. The old woman, quite satisfied in thinking
that it was she who was with Kokimi, added: "You, my young master, will soon be as tall as
she is; I will come out this way, too," and approached the door. Genji could do nothing but
stand silent and motionless. When she came nearer she said, addressing the supposed Mimb, "Have
you been waiting on the young mistress this evening? I have been ill since the day before yesterday,
and kept myself to my room, but was sent for this evening because my services were required.
I cannot stand it." So saying, and without waiting for any reply, she passed on, muttering
as she went, "Oh! my pain! my pain!" Genji and the boy now went forth, and they drove back
to the mansion in Nijiô. Talking over the events of the evening, Genji ironically said to his
companion, "Ah! you are a nice boy!" and snapped his fingers with chagrin at the escape of
his favorite and her indifference. Kokimi said nothing. Genji then murmured, "I was clearly
slighted. Oh wretched me! I cannot rival the happy Iyo!" Shortly after, he retired to rest,
taking with him, almost unconsciously, the scarf he had carried off, and again making Kokimi
share his apartment, for company's sake. He had still some hope that the latter might be useful
to him; and, with the intention of stirring up his energies, observed, "You are a nice boy;
but I am afraid the coldness shown to me by your sister may at last weaken the friendship between
you and me."

Kokimi still made no reply. Genji closed his eyes but could not sleep, so he started up and,
taking writing materials, began to write, apparently without any fixed purpose, and indited
the following distich:--

    "Where the cicada casts her shell
      In the shadows of the tree,
    There is one whom I love well,
      Though her heart is cold to me."

Casting away the piece of paper on which these words were written--purposely or not, who knows?--he
again leaned his head on his hand. Kokimi slyly stretching out his hand, picked up the paper
from the floor, and hid it quickly in his dress. Genji soon fell into profound slumber, in
which he was speedily joined by Kokimi.

Some days passed away and Kokimi returned to his sister, who, on seeing him, chided him severely,
saying:--

"Though I managed with some difficulty, we must not forget what people might say of us, your
officiousness is most unpardonable. Do you know what the Prince himself will think of your
childish trick?"

Thus was poor Kokimi, on the one hand, reproached by Genji for not doing enough, and on the
other by his sister for being too officious! was he not in a very happy position! Yet, notwithstanding
her words, he ventured to draw from his dress the paper he had picked up in Genji's apartment,
and offered it to her. The lady hesitated a moment, though somewhat inclined to read it, holding
it in her hand for some little time, undecided. At length she ventured to throw her eyes over
its contents. At once the loss of her scarf floated upon her mind as she read, and, taking
up her pen, wrote on part of the paper where Genji had written his verses, the words of a song:--

    "Amidst dark shadows of the tree,
      Cicada's wing with dew is wet,
    So in mine eyes unknown to thee,
      Spring sweet tears of fond regret."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 51: Ji and Kôh are the names of certain positions in the game of "Go."]

CHAPTER IV

EVENING GLORY

It happened that when Genji was driving about in the Rokjiô quarter, he was informed that his
old nurse, Daini, was ill, and had become a nun. Her residence was in Gojiô. He wished to visit
her, and drove to the house. The main gate was closed, so that his carriage could not drive
up; therefore, he sent in a servant to call out Koremitz, a son of the nurse.

Meantime, while awaiting him, he looked round on the deserted terrace. He noticed close by
a small and rather dilapidated dwelling, with a wooden fence round a newly-made enclosure.
The upper part, for eight or ten yards in length, was surrounded by a trellis-work, over which
some white reed blinds--rude, but new--were thrown. Through these blinds the indistinct outline
of some fair heads were faintly delineated, and the owners were evidently peeping down the
roadway from their retreat. "Ah," thought Genji, "they can never be so tall as to look over
the blind. They must be standing on something within. But whose residence is it? What sort
of people are they?" His equipage was strictly private and unostentatious. There were, of course,
no outriders; hence he had no fear of being recognized by them. And so he still watched the
house. The gate was also constructed of something like trellis-work, and stood half open, revealing
the loneliness of the interior. The line: "Where do we seek our home?" came first into his
mind, and he then thought that "even this must be as comfortable as golden palaces to its inmates."

A long wooden rail, covered with luxuriant creepers, which, fresh and green, climbed over it
in full vigor, arrested his eye; their white blossoms, one after another disclosing their smiling
lips in unconscious beauty. Genji began humming to himself: "Ah! stranger crossing there."
When his attendant informed him that these lovely white flowers were called "Yûgao" (evening-glory),
adding, and at the same time pointing to the flowers, "See the flowers only, flourishing in
that glorious state."

"What beautiful flowers they are," exclaimed Genji. "Go and beg a bunch."

The attendant thereupon entered the half-opened gate and asked for some of them, on which a
young girl, dressed in a long tunic, came out, taking an old fan in her hand, and saying, "Let
us put them on this, those with strong stems," plucked off a few stalks and laid them on the fan.

These were given to the attendant, who walked slowly back. Just as he came near to Genji, the
gate of Koremitz's courtyard opened and Koremitz himself appeared, who took the flowers from
him and handed them to Genji, at the same moment saying, "I am very sorry I could not find
the gate key, and that I made you wait so long in the public road, though there is no one hereabouts
to stare at, or recognize you, I sincerely beg your pardon."

The carriage was now driven in, and Genji alighted. The Ajari,[52] elder brother of Koremitz;
Mikawa-no-Kami, his brother-in-law; and the daughter of Daini, all assembled and greeted him.
The nun also rose from her couch to welcome him.

"How pleased I am to see you," she said, "but you see I have quite altered, I have become a
nun. I have given up the world. I had no reluctance in doing this. If I had any uneasiness,
it was on your account alone. My health, however, is beginning to improve; evidently the divine
blessing on this sacrifice."

"I was so sorry," replied Genji, "to hear you were ill, and now still more so to find you have
given up the world. I hope that you may live to witness my success and prosperity. It grieves
me to think you were compelled to make such a change; yet, I believe, this will secure your
enjoyment of happiness hereafter. It is said that when one leaves this world without a single
regret, one passes straight to Paradise." As he said these words his eyes became moistened.

Now, it is common for nurses to regard their foster children with blind affection, whatever
may be their faults, thinking, so to speak, that what is crooked is straight. So in Genji's
case, who, in Daini's eyes, was next door to perfection, this blindness was still more strongly
apparent, and she always regarded her office as his nurse, as an honor, and while Genji was
discoursing in the above manner, a tear began to trickle from her eyes.

"You know," he continued, "at what an early age I was deprived of my dearest ties; there were,
indeed, several who looked after me, but you were the one to whom I was most attached. In due
course, after I grew up, I ceased to see you regularly. I could not visit you as often as I
thought of you, yet, when I did not see you for a long time, I often felt very lonely. Ah!
if there were no such things as partings in the world!"

He then enjoined them earnestly to persevere in prayer for their mother's health, and said,
"Good-by."

At the moment of quitting the house he remembered that something was written on the fan that
held the flowers. It was already twilight, and he asked Koremitz to bring a taper, that he
might see to read it. It seemed to him as if the fragrance of some fair hand that had used
it still remained, and on it was written the following couplets:--

    "The crystal dew at Evening's hour
    Sleeps on the Yûgao's beauteous flower,
    Will this please him, whose glances bright,
    Gave to the flowers a dearer light?"

With apparent carelessness, without any indication to show who the writer was, it bore, however,
the marks of a certain excellence. Genji thought, "this is singular, coming from whence it
does," and turning to Koremitz, he asked, "Who lives in this house to your right?" "Ah," exclaimed
Koremitz mentally, "as usual, I see," but replied with indifference, "Truly I have been here
some days, but I have been so busy in attending my mother that I neither know nor have asked
about the neighbors." "You may probably be surprised at my inquisitiveness," said Genji, "but
I have reasons for asking this on account of this fan. I request you to call on them, and make
inquiries what sort of people they are."

Koremitz thereupon proceeded to the house, and, calling out a servant, sought from him the
information he wanted, when he was told that, "This is the house of Mr. Yômei-no-Ske. He is
at present in the country; his lady is still young; her brothers are in the Court service,
and often come here to see her. The whole history of the family I am not acquainted with."
With this answer Koremitz returned, and repeated it to Genji, who thought, "Ah! the sending
of this verse may be a trick of these conceited Court fellows!" but he could not entirely free
his mind from the idea of its having been sent especially to himself. This was consistent with
the characteristic vanity of his disposition. He, therefore, took out a paper, and disguising
his handwriting (lest it should be identified), indited the following:--

    "Were I the flower to see more near,
    Which once at dusky eve I saw,
    It might have charms for me more dear,
    And look more beauteous than before."

And this he sent to the house by his servant, and set off on his way. He saw a faint light
through the chinks of the blinds of the house, like the glimmer of the firefly. It gave him,
as he passed, a silent sort of longing. The mansion in Rokjiô, to which he was proceeding this
evening, was a handsome building, standing amidst fine woods of rare growth and beauty, and
all was of comfortable appearance. Its mistress was altogether in good circumstances, and here
Genji spent the hours in full ease and comfort.

On his way home next morning he again passed the front of the house, where grew the Yûgao flowers,
and the recollection of flowers which he had received the previous evening, made him anxious
to ascertain who the people were who lived there.

After the lapse of some time Koremitz came to pay him a visit, excusing himself for not having
come before, on account of his mother's health being more unsatisfactory. He said, "In obedience
to your commands to make further inquiries, I called on some people who know about my neighbors,
but could not get much information. I was told, however, that there is a lady who has been
living there since last May, but who she is even the people in the house do not know. Sometimes
I looked over the hedges between our gardens, and saw the youthful figure of a lady, and a
maiden attending her, in a style of dress which betrayed a good origin. Yesterday evening,
after sunset, I saw the lady writing a letter, her face was very calm in expression, but full
of thought, and her attendant was often sobbing secretly, as she waited on her. These things
I saw distinctly."

Genji smiled. He seemed more anxious than before to know something about them, and Koremitz
continued: "Hoping to get some fuller information, I took an opportunity which presented itself
of sending a communication to the house. To this a speedy answer was returned, written by a
skilful hand. I concluded from this and other circumstances that there was something worth
seeing and knowing enclosed within those walls." Genji immediately exclaimed, "Do! do! try
again; not to be able to find out is too provoking," and he thought to himself, "If in lowly
life, which is often left unnoticed, we find something attractive and fair, as Sama-no-Kami
said, how delightful it will be, and I think, perhaps, this may be such a one."

In the meantime his thoughts were occasionally reverting to Cicada. His nature was not, perhaps,
so perverted as to think about persons of such condition and position in life as Cicada; but
since he had heard the discussion about women, and their several classifications, he had somehow
become speculative in his sentiments, and ambitious of testing all those different varieties
by his own experience. While matters were in this state Iyo-no-Kami returned to the capital,
and came in haste to pay his respects to Genji. He was a swarthy, repulsive looking man, bearing
the traces of a long journey in his appearance, and of advanced age. Still there was nothing
unpleasant in his natural character and manners. Genji was about to converse with him freely,
but somehow or another an awkward feeling arose in his mind, and threw a restraint upon his
cordiality. "Iyo is such an honest old man," he reflected, "it is too bad to take advantage
of him. What Sama-no-Kami said is true, 'that to strive to carry out wrong desires is man's
evil failing!' Her hardheartedness to me is unpleasant, but from the other side this deserves
praise!"

It was announced after this that Iyo-no-Kami would return to his province, and take his wife
with him, and that his daughter would be left behind to be soon married.

This intelligence was far from pleasing to Genji, and he longed once more, only once more to
behold the lady of the scarf, and he concerted with Kokimi how to arrange a plan for obtaining
an interview. The lady, however, was quite deaf to such proposals, and the only concession
she vouchsafed was that she occasionally received a letter, and sometimes answered it.

Autumn had now come; Genji was still thoughtful. Lady Aoi saw him but seldom, and was constantly
disquieted by his protracted absence from her. There was, as we have before hinted, at Rokjiô,
another person whom he had won with great difficulty, and it would have been a little inconsistent
if he became too easily tired of her. He indeed had not become cool towards her, but the violence
of his passion had somewhat abated. The cause of this seems to have been that this lady was
rather too zealous, or, we may say, jealous; besides, her age exceeded that of Genji by some
years. The following incident will illustrate the state of matters between them:--

One morning early Genji was about to take his departure, with sleepy eyes, listless and weary,
from her mansion at Rokjiô. A slight mist spread over the scene. A maiden attendant of the
mistress opened the door for his departure, and led him forth. The shrubbery of flowering trees
struck refreshingly on the sight, with interlacing branches in rich confusion, among which
was some Asagao in full blossom. Genji was tempted to dally, and looked contemplatively over
them. The maiden still accompanied him. She wore a thin silk tunic of light green colors, showing
off her graceful waist and figure, which it covered. Her appearance was attractive. Genji looked
at her tenderly, and led her to a seat in the garden, and sat down by her side. Her countenance
was modest and quiet; her wavy hair was neatly and prettily arranged. Genji began humming in
a low tone:--

    "The heart that roams from flower to flower,
      Would fain its wanderings not betray,
    Yet 'Asagao,' in morning's hour,
      Impels my tender wish to stray."

So saying, he gently took her hand; she, however, without appearing to understand his real
meaning, answered thus:--

    "You stay not till the mist be o'er,
      But hurry to depart,
    Say can the flower you leave, no more
      Detain your changeful heart?"

At this juncture a young attendant in Sasinuki[53] entered the garden, brushing away the dewy
mist from the flowers, and began to gather some bunches of Asagao. The scene was one which
we might desire to paint, so full of quiet beauty, and Genji rose from his seat, and slowly
passed homeward. In those days Genji was becoming more and more an object of popular admiration
in society, and we might even attribute the eccentricity of some of his adventures to the favor
he enjoyed, combined with his great personal attractions. Where beautiful flowers expand their
blossoms even the rugged mountaineer loves to rest under their shade, so wherever Genji showed
himself people sought his notice.

Now with regard to the fair one about whom Koremitz was making inquiries. After some still
further investigations, he came to Genji and told him that "there is some one who often visits
there. Who he was I could not at first find out, for he comes with the utmost privacy. I made
up my mind to discover him; so one evening I concealed myself outside the house, and waited.
Presently the sound of an approaching carriage was heard, and the inmates of the house began
to peep out. The lady I mentioned before was also to be seen; I could not see her very plainly,
but I can tell you so much: she looked charming. The carriage itself was now seen approaching,
and it apparently belonged to some one of rank. A little girl who was peeping out exclaimed,
"Ukon, look here, quick, Chiûjiô is coming." Then one older came forward rubbing her hands
and saying to the child, 'Don't be so foolish, don't be excited.' How could they tell, I wondered,
that the carriage was a Chiûjiô's. I stole forth cautiously and reconnoitred. Near the house
there is a small stream, over which a plank had been thrown by way of a bridge. The visitor
was rapidly approaching this bridge when an amusing incident occurred: The elder girl came
out in haste to meet him, and was passing the bridge, when the skirt of her dress caught in
something, and she well-nigh fell into the water. 'Confound that bridge, what a bad Katzragi,'[54]
she cried, and suddenly turned pale. How amusing it was, you may imagine. The visitor was dressed
in plain style, he was followed by his page, whom I recognized as belonging to Tô-no-Chiûjiô."

"I should like to see that same carriage," interrupted Genji eagerly, as he thought to himself,
"that house may be the home of the very girl whom he (Tô-no-Chiûjiô) spoke about, perhaps he
has discovered her hiding-place."

"I have also made an acquaintance," Koremitz continued, "with a certain person in this house,
and it was through these means that I made closer observations. The girl who nearly fell over
the bridge is, no doubt, the lady's attendant, but they pretend to be all on an equality. Even
when the little child said anything to betray them by its remarks, they immediately turned
it off." Koremitz laughed as he told this, adding, "this was an amusing trick indeed."

"Oh," exclaimed Genji, "I must have a look at them when I go to visit your mother; you must
manage this," and with the words the picture of the "Evening-Glory" rose pleasantly before
his eyes.

Now Koremitz not only was always prompt in attending to the wishes of Prince Genji, but also
was by his own temperament fond of carrying on such intrigues. He tried every means to favor
his designs, and to ingratiate himself with the lady, and at last succeeded in bringing her
and Genji together. The details of the plans by which all this was brought about are too long
to be given here. Genji visited her often, but it was with the greatest caution and privacy;
he never asked her when they met any particulars about her past life, nor did he reveal his
own to her. He would not drive to her in his own carriage, and Koremitz often lent him his
own horse to ride. He took no attendant with him except the one who had asked for the "Evening-Glory."
He would not even call on the nurse, lest it might lead to discoveries. The lady was puzzled
at his reticence. She would sometimes send her servant to ascertain, if possible, what road
he took, and where he went. But somehow, by chance or design, he always became lost to her
watchful eye. His dress, also, was of the most ordinary description, and his visits were always
paid late in the evening. To her all this seemed like the mysteries of old legends. True, she
conjectured from his demeanor and ways that he was a person of rank, but she never ascertained
exactly who he was. She sometimes reproached Koremitz for bringing her into such strange circumstances.
But he cunningly kept himself aloof from such taunts.

Be this as it may, Genji still frequently visited her, though at the same time he was not unmindful
that this kind of adventure was scarcely consistent with his position. The girl was simple
and modest in nature, not certainly manoeuvring, neither was she stately or dignified in mien,
but everything about her had a peculiar charm and interest, impossible to describe, and in
the full charm of youth not altogether void of experience.

"But by what charm in her," thought Genji, "am I so strongly affected; no matter, I am so,"
and thus his passion continued.

Her residence was only temporary, and this Genji soon became aware of. "If she leaves this
place," thought he, "and I lose sight of her--for when this may happen is uncertain--what shall
I do?" He at last decided to carry her off secretly to his own mansion in Nijiô. True, if this
became known it would be an awkward business; but such are love affairs; always some dangers
to be risked! He therefore fondly entreated her to accompany him to some place where they could
be freer.

Her answer, however, was "That such a proposal on his part only alarmed her." Genji was amused
at her girlish mode of expression, and earnestly said, "Which of us is a fox?[55] I don't know,
but anyhow be persuaded by me." And after repeated conversations of the same nature, she at
last half-consented. He had much doubt of the propriety of inducing her to take this step,
nevertheless her final compliance flattered his vanity. He recollected very well the Tokonatz
(Pinks) which Tô-no-Chiûjiô spoke of, but never betrayed that he had any knowledge of that
circumstance.

It was on the evening of the 15th of August when they were together. The moonlight streamed
through the crevices of the broken wall. To Genji such a scene was novel and peculiar. The
dawn at length began to break, and from the surrounding houses the voices of the farmers might
be heard talking.

One remarked, "How cool it is." Another, "There is not much hope for our crops this year."
"My carrying business I do not expect to answer," responded the first speaker. "But are our
neighbors listening!" Conversing in this way they proceeded to their work.

Had the lady been one to whom surrounding appearances were important, she might have felt disturbed,
but she was far from being so, and seemed as if no outward circumstances could trouble her
equanimity, which appeared to him an admirable trait. The noise of the threshing of the corn
came indistinctly to their ears like distant thunder. The beating of the bleacher's hammer
was also heard faintly from afar off.

They were in the front of the house. They opened the window and looked out on the dawn. In
the small garden before their eyes was a pretty bamboo grove; their leaves, wet with dew, shone
brilliantly, even as bright as in the gardens of the palace. The cricket sang cheerfully in
the old walls as if it was at their very ears, and the flight of wild geese in the air rustled
overhead. Everything spoke of rural scenes and business, different from what Genji was in the
habit of seeing and hearing round him.

To him all these sights and sounds, from their novelty and variety, combined with the affection
he had for the girl beside him, had a delightful charm. She wore a light dress of clear purple,
not very costly; her figure was slight and delicate; the tones of her voice soft and insinuating.
"If she were only a little more cultivated," thought he, but, in any case, he was determined
to carry her off.

"Now is the time," said he, "let us go together, the place is not very far off."

"Why so soon?" she replied, gently. As her implied consent to his proposal was thus given without
much thought, he, on his part, became bolder. He summoned her maid, Ukon, and ordered the carriage
to be got ready. Dawn now fairly broke; the cocks had ceased to crow, and the voice of an aged
man was heard repeating his orisons, probably during his fast. "His days will not be many,"
thought Genji, "what is he praying for?" And while so thinking, the aged mortal muttered, "Nam
Tôrai no Dôshi" (Oh! the Divine guide of the future). "Do listen to that prayer," said Genji,
turning to the girl, "it shows our life is not limited to this world," and he hummed:--

    "Let us together, bind our soul
      With vows that Woobasok[56] has given,
    That when this world from sight shall roll
      Unparted we shall wake in heaven."

And added, "By Mirok,[57] let us bind ourselves in love forever."

The girl, doubtful of the future, thus replied in a melancholy tone:--

    "When in my present lonely lot,
      I feel my past has not been free
    From sins which I remember not,
      I dread more, what to come, may be."

In the meantime a passing cloud had suddenly covered the sky, and made its face quite gray.
Availing himself of this obscurity, Genji hurried her away and led her to the carriage, where
Ukon also accompanied her.

They drove to an isolated mansion on the Rokjiô embankment, which was at no great distance,
and called out the steward who looked after it. The grounds were in great solitude, and over
them lay a thick mist. The curtains of the carriage were not drawn close, so that the sleeves
of their dresses were almost moistened. "I have never experienced this sort of trouble before,"
said Genji; "how painful are the sufferings of love."

    "Oh! were the ancients, tell me pray,
      Thus led away, by love's keen smart,
    I ne'er such morning's misty ray
      Have felt before with beating heart.

Have you ever?"

The lady shyly averted her face and answered:--

    "I, like the wandering moon, may roam,
      Who knows not if her mountain love
    Be true or false, without a home,
      The mist below, the clouds above."

The steward presently came out and the carriage was driven inside the gates, and was brought
close to the entrance, while the rooms were hurriedly prepared for their reception. They alighted
just as the mist was clearing away.

This steward was in the habit of going to the mansion of Sadaijin, and was well acquainted
with Genji.

"Oh!" he exclaimed, as they entered. "Without proper attendants!" And approaching near to Genji
said, "Shall I call in some more servants?"

Genji replied at once and impressively, "I purposely chose a place where many people should
not intrude. Don't trouble yourself, and be discreet."

Rice broth was served up for their breakfast, but no regular meal had been prepared.

The sun was now high in the heavens. Genji got up and opened the window. The gardens had been
uncared for, and had run wild. The forest surrounding the mansion was dense and old, and the
shrubberies were ravaged and torn by the autumn gales, and the bosom of the lake was hidden
by rank weeds. The main part of the house had been for a long time uninhabited, except the
servants' quarter, where there were only a few people living.

"How fearful the place looks; but let no demon molest us," thought Genji, and endeavored to
direct the girl's attention by fond and caressing conversation. And now he began, little by
little, to throw off the mask, and told her who he was, and then began humming:--

    "The flower that bloomed in evening's dew,
    Was the bright guide that led to you."

She looked at him askance, replying:--

    "The dew that on the Yûgao lay,
    Was a false guide and led astray."

Thus a faint allusion was made to the circumstances which were the cause of their acquaintance,
and it became known that the verse and the fan had been sent by her attendant mistaking Genji
for her mistress's former lover.

In the course of a few hours the girl became more at her ease, and later on in the afternoon
Koremitz came and presented some fruits. The latter, however, stayed with them only a short time.

The mansion gradually became very quiet, and the evening rapidly approached. The inner room
was somewhat dark and gloomy. Yûgao was nervous; she was too nervous to remain there alone,
and Genji therefore drew back the curtains to let the twilight in, staying there with her.
Here the lovers remained, enjoying each other's sight and company, yet the more the evening
advanced, the more timid and restless she became, so he quickly closed the casement, and she
drew by degrees closer and closer to his side. At these moments he also became distracted and
thoughtful. How the Emperor would be asking after him, and know not where he might be! What
would the lady, the jealous lady, in the neighboring mansion think or say if she discovered
their secret? How painful it would be if her jealous rage should flash forth on him! Such were
the reflections which made him melancholy; and as his eyes fell upon the girl affectionately
sitting beside him, ignorant of all these matters, he could not but feel a kind of pity for her.

Night was now advancing, and they unconsciously dropped off to sleep, when suddenly over the
pillow of Genji hovered the figure of a lady of threatening aspect. It said fiercely, "You
faithless one, wandering astray with such a strange girl."

And then the apparition tried to pull away the sleeping girl near him. Genji awoke much agitated.
The lamp had burnt itself out. He drew his sword, and placed it beside him, and called aloud
for Ukon, and she came to him also quite alarmed.

"Do call up the servants and procure a light," said Genji.

"How can I go, 'tis too dark," she replied, shaking with fear.

"How childish!" he exclaimed, with a false laugh, and clapped his hands to call a servant.
The sound echoed drearily through the empty rooms, but no servant came. At this moment he found
the girl beside him was also strangely affected. Her brow was covered with great drops of cold
perspiration, and she appeared rapidly sinking into a state of unconsciousness.

"Ah! she is often troubled with the nightmare," said Ukon, "and perhaps this disturbs her now;
but let us try and rouse her."

"Yes, very likely," said Genji; "she was very much fatigued, and since noon her eyes have often
been riveted upwards, like one suffering from some inward malady. I will go myself and call
the servants"--he continued, "clapping one's hands is useless, besides it echoes fearfully.
Do come here, Ukon, for a little while, and look after your mistress." So pulling Ukon near
Yûgao, he advanced to the entrance of the saloon. He saw all was dark in the adjoining chambers.
The wind was high, and blew gustily round the mansion. The few servants, consisting of a son
of the steward, footman, and page, were all buried in profound slumber. Genji called to them
loudly, and they awoke with a start. "Come," said he, "bring a light. Valet, twang your bow-string,
and drive away the fiend. How can you sleep so soundly in such a place? But has Koremitz come?"

"Sir, he came in the evening, but you had given no command, and so he went away, saying he
would return in the morning," answered one.

The one who gave this reply was an old knight, and he twanged his bow-strings vigorously, "Hiyôjin!
hiyôjin!" (Be careful of the fire! be careful of the fire!) as he walked round the rooms.

The mind of Genji instinctively reverted at this moment to the comfort of the palace. "At this
hour of midnight," he thought, "the careful knights are patrolling round its walls. How different
it is here!"

He returned to the room he had left; it was still dark. He found Yûgao lying half dead and
unconscious as before, and Ukon rendered helpless by fright.

"What is the matter? What does it mean? What foolish fear is this?" exclaimed Genji, greatly
alarmed. "Perhaps in lonely places like this the fox, for instance, might try to exercise his
sorcery to alarm us, but I am here, there is no cause for fear," and he pulled Ukon's sleeve
as he spoke, to arouse her.

"I was so alarmed," she replied; "but my lady must be more so; pray attend to her."

"Well," said Genji, and bending over his beloved, shook her gently, but she neither spoke nor
moved. She had apparently fainted, and he became seriously alarmed.

At this juncture the lights were brought. Genji threw a mantle over his mistress, and then
called to the man to bring the light to him. The servant remained standing at a distance (according
to etiquette), and would not approach.

"Come near," exclaimed Genji, testily. "Do act according to circumstances," and taking the
lamp from him threw its light full on the face of the lady, and gazed upon it anxiously, when
at this very moment he beheld the apparition of the same woman he had seen before in his terrible
dream, float before his eyes and vanish. "Ah!" he cried, "this is like the phantoms in old
tales. What is the matter with the girl?" His own fears were all forgotten in his anxiety on
her account. He leaned over and called upon her, but in vain. She answered not, and her glance
was fixed. What was to be done? There was no one whom he could consult. The exorcisms of a
priest, he thought, might do some good, but there was no priest. He tried to compose himself
with all the resolution he could summon, but his anguish was too strong for his nerves. He
threw himself beside her, and embracing her passionately, cried, "Come back! come back to me,
my darling! Do not let us suffer such dreadful events." But she was gone; her soul had passed
gently away.

The story of the mysterious power of the demon, who had threatened a certain courtier possessed
of considerable strength of mind, suddenly occurred to Genji, who thought self-possession was
the only remedy in present circumstances, and recovering his composure a little, said to Ukon,
"She cannot be dead! She shall not die yet!" He then called the servant, and told him. "Here
is one who has been strangely frightened by a vision. Go to Koremitz and tell him to come at
once; and if his brother, the priest, is there, ask him to come also. Tell them cautiously;
don't alarm their mother."

The midnight passed, and the wind blew louder, rushing amongst the branches of the old pines,
and making them moan more and more sadly. The cries of strange weird birds were heard, probably
the shrieks of the ill-omened screech-owl, and the place seemed more and more remote from all
human sympathy. Genji could only helplessly repeat, "How could I have chosen such a retreat."
While Ukon, quite dismayed, cried pitifully at his side. To him it seemed even that this girl
might become ill, might die! The light of the lamp flickered and burnt dim. Each side of the
walls seemed to his alarmed sight to present numberless openings one after another (where the
demon might rush in), and the sound of mysterious footsteps seemed approaching along the deserted
passages behind them. "Ah! were Koremitz but here," was the only thought of Genji; but it would
seem that Koremitz was from home, and the time Genji had to wait for him seemed an age. At
last the crowing cocks announced the coming day, and gave him new courage.

He said to himself, "I must now admit this to be a punishment for all my inconsiderateness.
However secretly we strive to conceal our faults, eventually they are discovered. First of
all, what might not my father think! and then the general public? And what a subject for scandal
the story of my escapades will become."

Koremitz now arrived, and all at once the courage with which Genji had fought against calamity
gave way, and he burst into tears, and then slowly spoke. "Here a sad and singular event has
happened; I cannot explain to you why. For such sudden afflictions prayers, I believe, are
the only resource. For this reason I wished your brother to accompany you here."

"He returned to his monastery only yesterday," replied Koremitz. "But tell me what has happened;
any unusual event to the girl?"

"She is dead," returned Genji in a broken voice; "dead without any apparent cause."

Koremitz, like the Prince, was but young. If he had had greater experience he would have been
more serviceable to Genji; indeed, they both were equally perplexed to decide what were the
best steps to be taken under the trying circumstances of the case.

At last Koremitz said, "If the steward should learn this strange misfortune it might be awkward;
as to the man himself he might be relied on, but his family, who probably would not be so discreet,
might hear of the matter. It would, therefore, be better to quit this place at once."

"But where can we find a spot where there are fewer observers than here?" replied Genji.

"That is true. Suppose the old lodgings of the deceased. No, there are too many people there.
I think a mountain convent would be better, because there they are accustomed to receive the
dead within their walls, so that matters can be more easily concealed."

And after a little reflection, he continued, "There is a nun whom I know living in a mountain
convent in Higashi-Yama. Let us take the corpse there. She was my father's nurse; she is living
there in strict seclusion. That is the best plan I can think of."

This proposal was decided on, and the carriage was summoned.

Presuming that Genji would not like to carry the dead body in his arms, Koremitz covered it
with a mantle, and lifted it into the carriage. Over the features of the dead maiden a charming
calmness was still spread, unlike what usually happens, there being nothing repulsive. Her
wavy hair fell outside the mantle, and her small mouth, still parted, wore a faint smile. The
sight distressed both the eyes and heart of Genji. He fain would have followed the body; but
this Koremitz would not permit.

"Do take my horse and ride back to Nijiô at once," he said, and ordered the horse for him.
Then taking Ukon away in the same carriage with the dead, he, girding up his dress, followed
it on foot. It was by no means a pleasant task for Koremitz, but he put up with it cheerfully.

Genji, sunk in apathy, now rode back to Nijiô; he was greatly fatigued, and looked pale. The
people of the mansion noticed his sad and haggard appearance.

Genji said nothing, but hurried straight away to his own private apartment.

"Why did I not go with her?" he still vainly exclaimed. "What would she think of me were she
to return to life?" And these thoughts affected him so deeply that he became ill, his head
ached, his pulse beat high, and his body burned with fever. The sun rose high, but he did not
leave his couch. His domestics were all perplexed. Rice gruel was served up to him, but he
would not touch it. The news of his indisposition soon found its way out of the mansion, and
in no time a messenger arrived from the Imperial Palace to make inquiries. His brother-in-law
also came, but Genji only allowed Tô-no-Chiûjiô to enter his room, saying to him, "My aged
nurse has been ill since last May, and has been tonsured, and received consecration; it was,
perhaps, from this sacrifice that at one time she became better, but lately she has had a relapse,
and is again very bad. I was advised to visit her, moreover, she was always most kind to me,
and if she had died without seeing me it would have pained her, so I went to see her. At this
time a servant of her house, who had been ill, died suddenly. Being rendered 'unclean' by this
event, I am passing the time privately. Besides, since the morning, I have become ill, evidently
the effects of cold. By the bye, you must excuse me receiving you in this way."

"Well, sir," replied Tô-no-Chiûjiô, "I will represent these circumstances to his Majesty. Your
absence last night has given much inquietude to the Emperor. He caused inquiries to be made
for you everywhere, and his humor was not very good." And thereupon Tô-no-Chiûjiô took his
leave, thinking as he went, "What sort of 'uncleanness' can this really be. I cannot put perfect
faith in what he tells me."

Little did Tô-no-Chiûjiô imagine that the dead one was no other than his own long-lost Tokonatz
(Pinks).

In the evening came Koremitz from the mountain, and was secretly introduced, though all general
visitors were kept excluded on the pretext of the "uncleanness."

"What has become of her?" cried Genji, passionately, when he saw him. "Is she really gone?"

"Her end has come," replied Koremitz, in a tone of sadness; "and we must not keep the dead
too long. To-morrow we will place her in the grave: to-morrow 'is a good day.' I know a faithful
old priest. I have consulted with him how to arrange all."

"And what has become of Ukon?" asked Genji. "How does she bear it?"

"That is, indeed, a question. She was really deeply affected, and she foolishly said, 'I will
die with my mistress.' She was actually going to throw herself headlong from the cliff; but
I warned, I advised, I consoled her, and she became more pacified."

"The state of her feelings may be easily conceived. I am myself not less deeply wounded than
she. I do not even know what might become of myself."

"Why do you grieve so uselessly? Every uncertainty is the result of a certainty. There is nothing
in this world really to be lamented. If you do not wish the public to know anything of this
matter, I, Koremitz, will manage it."

"I, also, am aware that everything is fated. Still, I am deeply sorry to have brought this
misfortune on this poor girl by my own inconsiderate rashness. The only thing I have now to
ask you, is to keep these events in the dark. Do not mention them to any one--nay, not even
to your mother."

"Even from the priests to whom it must necessarily be known, I will conceal the reality," replied
Koremitz.

"Do manage all this most skilfully!"

"Why, of course I shall manage it as secretly as possible," cried Koremitz; and he was about
to take his departure, but Genji stopped him.

"I must see her once more," said Genji, sorrowfully. "I will go with you to behold her, before
she is lost to my sight forever." And he insisted on accompanying him.

Koremitz, however, did not at all approve of this project; but his resistance gave way to the
earnest desire of Genji, and he said, "If you think so much about it, I cannot help it."

"Let us hasten, then, and return before the night be far advanced."

"You shall have my horse to ride."

Genji rose, and dressed himself in the ordinary plain style he usually adopted for his private
expeditions, and started away with one confidential servant, besides Koremitz.

They crossed the river Kamo, the torches carried before them burning dimly. They passed the
gloomy cemetery of Toribeno, and at last reached the convent.

It was a rude wooden building, and adjoining was a small Buddha Hall, through whose walls votive
tapers mysteriously twinkled. Within, nothing but the faint sound of a female's voice repeating
prayers was to be heard. Outside, and around, the evening services in the surrounding temples
were all finished, and all Nature was in silent repose. In the direction of Kiyomidz alone
some scattered lights studding the dark scene betrayed human habitations.

They entered. Genji's heart was beating fast with emotion. He saw Ukon reclining beside a screen,
with her back to the lamp. He did not speak to her, but proceeded straight to the body, and
gently drew aside the mantle which covered its face. It still wore a look of tranquil calmness;
no change had yet attacked the features. He took the cold hand in his own, crying out as he
did so:--

"Do let me hear thy voice once more! Why have you left me thus bereaved?" But the silence of
death was unbroken!

He then, half sobbing, began to talk with Ukon, and invited her to come to his mansion, and
help to console him. But Koremitz now admonished him to consider that time was passing quickly.

On this Genji threw a long sad farewell glance at the face of the dead, and rose to depart.
He was so feeble and powerless that he could not mount his horse without the help of Koremitz.
The countenance of the dead girl floated ever before his sight, with the look she wore when
living, and it seemed as if he were being led on by some mysterious influence.

The banks of the river Kamo were reached, when Genji found himself too weak to support himself
on horseback, and so dismounted.

"I am afraid," he exclaimed, "I shall not be able to reach home."

Koremitz was a little alarmed. "If I had only been firm," he thought, "and had prevented this
journey, I should not have exposed him to such a trial." He descended to the river, and bathing
his hands,[58] offered up a prayer to Kwannon of Kiyomidz, and again assisted Genji to mount,
who struggled to recover his energy, and managed somehow to return to Nijiô, praying in silence
as he rode along.

The people of the mansion entertained grave apprehensions about him; and not unnaturally, seeing
he had been unusually restless for some days, and had become suddenly ill since the day before,
and they could never understand what urgency had called him out on that evening.

Genji now lay down on his couch, fatigued and exhausted, and continued in the same state for
some days, when he became quite weak.

The Emperor was greatly concerned, as was also Sadaijin. Numerous prayers were offered, and
exorcisms performed everywhere in his behalf, all with the most careful zeal. The public was
afraid he was too beautiful to live long.

The only solace he had at this time was Ukon; he had sent for her, and made her stay in his
mansion.

And whenever he felt better he had her near him, and conversed with her about her dead mistress.

In the meantime, it might have been the result of his own energetic efforts to realize the
ardent hopes of the Emperor and his father-in-law, that his condition became better, after
a heavy trial of some three weeks; and towards the end of September he became convalescent.
He now felt as though he had been restored to the world to which he had formerly belonged.
He was, however, still thin and weak, and, for consolation, still resorted to talk with Ukon.

"How strange," he said to her, as they were conversing together one fine autumn evening. "Why
did she not reveal to me all her past life? If she had but known how deeply I loved her, she
might have been a little more frank with me."

"Ah! no," replied Ukon; "she would not intentionally have concealed anything from you; but
it was, I imagine, more because she had no choice. You at first conducted yourself in such
a mysterious manner; and she, on her part, regarded her acquaintance with you as something
like a dream. That was the cause of her reticence."

"What a useless reticence it was," exclaimed Genji. "I was not so frank as, perhaps, I ought
to have been; but you may be sure that made no difference in my affection towards her. Only,
you must remember, there is my father, the Emperor, besides many others, whose vigilant admonitions
I am bound to respect. That was the reason why I had to be careful. Nevertheless, my love to
your mistress was singularly deep; too deep, perhaps, to last long. Do tell me now all you
know about her; I do not see any reason why you should conceal it. I have carefully ordered
the weekly requiem for the dead; but tell me in whose behalf it is, and what was her origin?"

"I have no intention of concealing anything from you. Why should I? I only thought it would
be blamable if one should reveal after death what another had thought best to reserve," replied
Ukon. "Her parents died when she was a mere girl. Her father was called Sammi-Chiûjiô, and
loved her very dearly. He was always aspiring to better his position, and wore out his life
in the struggle. After his death, she was left helpless and poor. She was however, by chance,
introduced to Tô-no-Chiûjiô, when he was still Shiôshiô, and not Chiûjiô. During three years
they kept on very good terms, and he was very kind to her. But some wind or other attacks every
fair flower; and, in the autumn of last year, she received a fearful menace from the house
of Udaijin, to whose daughter, as you know, Tô-no-Chiûjiô is married. Poor girl, she was terrified
at this. She knew not what to do, and hid herself, with her nurse, in an obscure part of the
capital. It was not a very agreeable place, and she was about removing to a certain mountain
hamlet, but, as its 'celestial direction' was closed this year, she was still hesitating, and
while matters were in this state, you appeared on the scene. To do her justice, she had no
thought of wandering from one to another; but circumstances often make things appear as if
we did so. She was, by nature, extremely reserved, so that she did not like to speak out her
feelings to others, but rather suffered in silence by herself. This, perhaps, you also have
noticed."

"Then it was so, after all. She was the Tokonatz of Tô-no-Chiûjiô," thought Genji; and now
it also transpired that all that Koremitz had stated about Tô-no-Chiûjiô's visiting her at
the Yûgao house was a pure invention, suggested by a slight acquaintance with the girl's previous
history.

"The Chiûjiô told me once," said Genji, "that she had a little one. Was there any such?"

"Yes, she had one in the spring of the year before last--a girl, a nice child," replied Ukon.

"Where is she now?" asked Genji, "perhaps you will bring her to me some day. I should like
to have her with me as a memento of her mother. I should not mind mentioning it to her father,
but if I did so, I must reveal the whole sad story of her mother's fate, and this would not
be advisable at present; however, I do not see any harm if I were to bring her up as my daughter.
You might manage it somehow without my name being mentioned to any one concerned."

"That would be a great happiness for the child," exclaimed Ukon, delighted, "I do not much
appreciate her being brought up where she is."

"Well, I will do so, only let us wait for some better chance. For the present be discreet."

"Yes, of course. I cannot yet take any steps towards that object; we must not unfurl our sails
before the storm is completely over."

The foliage of the ground, touched with autumnal tints, was beginning to fade, and the sounds
of insects (mushi) were growing faint, and both Genji and Ukon were absorbed by the sad charm
of the scene. As they meditated, they heard doves cooing among the bamboo woods.

To Genji it brought back the cries of that strange bird, which cry he had heard on that fearful
night in Rokjiô, and the subject recurred to his mind once more, and he said to Ukon, "How
old was she?"

"Nineteen."

"And how came you to know her?"

"I was the daughter of her first nurse, and a great favorite of her father's, who brought me
up with her, and from that time I never left her. When I come to think of those days I wonder
how I can exist without her. The poet says truly, 'The deeper the love, the more bitter the
parting.' Ah! how gentle and retiring she was. How much I loved her!"

"That retiring and gentle temperament," said Genji, "gives far greater beauty to women than
all beside, for to have no natural pliability makes women utterly worthless."

The sky by this time became covered, and the wind blew chilly. Genji gazed intently on it and
hummed:--

    "When we regard the clouds above,
      Our souls are filled with fond desire,
    To me the smoke of my dead love,
      Seems rising from the funeral pyre."

The distant sound of the bleacher's hammer reached their ears, and reminded him of the sound
he had heard in the Yûgao's house. He bade "Good-night" to Ukon, and retired to rest, humming
as he went:--

    "In the long nights of August and September."

On the forty-ninth day (after the death of the Yûgao) he went to the Hokke Hall in the Hiye
mountain, and there had a service for the dead performed, with full ceremony and rich offerings.
The monk-brother of Koremitz took every pains in its performance.

The composition of requiem prayers was made by Genji himself, and revised by a professor of
literature, one of his intimate friends. He expressed in it the melancholy sentiment about
the death of one whom he had dearly loved, and whom he had yielded to Buddha. But who she was
was not stated. Among the offerings there was a dress. He took it up in his hands and sorrowfully
murmured,

    "With tears to-day, the dress she wore
      I fold together, when shall I
    Bright Elysium's far-off shore
      This robe of hers again untie?"

And the thought that the soul of the deceased might be still wandering and unsettled to that
very day, but that now the time had come when her final destiny would be decided,[59] made
him pray for her more fervently.

So closed the sad event of Yûgao.

Now Genji was always thinking that he should wish to see his beloved in a dream.

The evening after his visit to the Hokke Hall, he beheld her in his slumbers, as he wished,
but at the same moment the terrible face of the woman that he had seen on that fearful evening
in Rokjiô again appeared before him; hence he concluded that the same mysterious being who
tenanted that dreary mansion had taken advantage of his fears and had destroyed his beloved Yûgao.

A few words more about the house in which she had lived. After her flight no communication
had been sent to them even by Ukon, and they had no idea of where she had gone to. The mistress
of the house was a daughter of the nurse of Yûgao. She with her two sisters lived there. Ukon
was a stranger to them, and they imagined that her being so was the reason of her sending no
intelligence to them. True they had entertained some suspicions about the gay Prince, and pressed
Koremitz to confide the truth to them, but the latter, as he had done before, kept himself
skilfully aloof.

They then thought she might have been seduced and carried off by some gallant son of a local
Governor, who feared his intrigue might be discovered by Tô-no-Chiûjiô.

During these days Kokimi, of Ki-no-Kami's house, still used to come occasionally to Genji.
But for some time past the latter had not sent any letter to Cicada. When she heard of his
illness she not unnaturally felt for him, and also she had experienced a sort of disappointment
in not seeing his writing for some time, especially as the time of her departure for the country
was approaching. She therefore sent him a letter of inquiry with the following:--

    "If long time passes slow away,
      Without a word from absent friend,
    Our fears no longer brook delay,
      But must some kindly greeting send."

To this letter Genji returned a kind answer and also the following:--

    "This world to me did once appear
      Like Cicada's shell, when cast away,
    Till words addressed by one so dear,
      Have taught my hopes a brighter day."

This was written with a trembling hand, but still bearing nice traits, and when it reached
Cicada, and she saw that he had not yet forgotten past events, and the scarf he had carried
away, she was partly amused and partly pleased.

It was about this time that the daughter of Iyo-no-Kami was engaged to a certain Kurando Shiôshiô,
and he was her frequent visitor. Genji heard of this, and without any intention of rivalry,
sent her the following by Kokimi:--

    "Like the green reed that grows on high
      By river's brink, our love has been,
    And still my wandering thoughts will fly
      Back to that quickly passing scene."

She was a little flattered by it, and gave Kokimi a reply, as follows:--

    "The slender reed that feels the wind
      That faintly stirs its humble leaf,
    Feels that too late it breathes its mind,
      And only wakes, a useless grief."

Now the departure of Iyo-no-Kami was fixed for the beginning of October.

Genji sent several parting presents to his wife, and in addition to these some others, consisting
of beautiful combs, fans, nusa,[60] and the scarf he had carried away, along with the following,
privately through Kokimi:--

    "I kept this pretty souvenir
      In hopes of meeting you again,
    I send it back with many a tear,
      Since now, alas! such hope is vain."

There were many other minute details, which I shall pass over as uninteresting to the reader.

Genji's official messenger returned, but her reply about the scarf was sent through Kokimi:--

    "When I behold the summer wings
      Cicada like, I cast aside;
    Back to my heart fond memory springs,
      And on my eyes, a rising tide."

The day of the departure happened to be the commencement of the winter season. An October shower
fell lightly, and the sky looked gloomy.

Genji stood gazing upon it and hummed:--

    "Sad and weary Autumn hours,
      Summer joys now past away,
    Both departing, dark the hours,
      Whither speeding, who can say?"

All these intrigues were safely kept in strict privacy, and to have boldly written all particulars
concerning them is to me a matter of pain. So at first I intended to omit them, but had I done
so my history would have become like a fiction, and the censure I should expect would be that
I had done so intentionally, because my hero was the son of an Emperor; but, on the other hand,
if I am accused of too much loquacity, I cannot help it.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 52: Name of an ecclesiastical office.]

[Footnote 53: Sasinuki is a sort of loose trousers, and properly worn by men only, hence some
commentators conclude, the attendant here mentioned to mean a boy, others contend, this garment
was worn by females also when they rode.]

[Footnote 54: A mythological repulsive deity who took part in the building of a bridge at the
command of a powerful magician.]

[Footnote 55: A popular superstition in China and Japan believes foxes to have mysterious powers
over men.]

[Footnote 56: Upasaka, a sect of the followers of Buddhism who are laymen though they observe
the rules of clerical life.]

[Footnote 57: Meitreya, a Buddhisatva destined to reappear as a Buddha after the lapse of an
incalculable series of years.]

[Footnote 58: It is the Oriental custom that when one offers up a prayer, he first washes his
hands, to free them from all impurity.]

[Footnote 59: According to the Buddhist's doctrine of the Hosso sect, all the souls of the
dead pass, during seven weeks after death, into an intermediate state, and then their fate
is decided. According to the Tendai sect, the best and the worst go immediately where they
deserve, but those of a medium nature go through this process.]

[Footnote 60: An offering made of paper, to the God of roads, which travellers were accustomed
to make, before setting out on a journey.]

CHAPTER V

YOUNG VIOLET

It was the time when Genji became subject to periodical attacks of ague, that many exorcisms
and spells were performed to effect a cure, but all in vain. At length he was told by a friend
that in a certain temple on the northern mountain (Mount Kurama) there dwelt a famous ascetic,
and that when the epidemic had prevailed during the previous summer, many people had recovered
through his exorcisms. "If," added the friend, "the disease is neglected it becomes serious;
try therefore, this method of procuring relief at once, and before it is too late."

Genji, therefore, sent for the hermit, but he declined to come, saying that he was too old
and decrepit to leave his retreat. "What shall I do?" exclaimed Genji, "shall I visit him privately?"
Eventually, taking four or five attendants, he started off early one morning for the place,
which was at no great distance on the mountain.

It was the last day of March, and though the height of the season for flowers in the capital
was over, yet, on the mountain, the cherry-trees were still in blossom. They advanced on their
way further and further. The haze clung to the surface like a soft sash does round the waist,
and to Genji, who had scarcely ever been out of the capital, the scenery was indescribably
novel. The ascetic lived in a deep cave in the rocks, near the lofty summit. Genji did not,
however, declare who he was, and the style of his retinue was of a very private character.
Yet his nobility of manners was easily recognizable.

"Welcome your visit!" cried the hermit, saluting him. "Perhaps you are the one who sent for
me the other day? I have long since quitted the affairs of this world, and have almost forgotten
the secret of my exorcisms. I wonder why you have come here for me." So saying, he pleasingly
embraced him. He was evidently a man of great holiness. He wrote out a talismanic prescription,
which he gave to Genji to drink in water, while he himself proceeded to perform some mysterious
rite. During the performance of this ceremony the sun rose high in the heavens. Genji, meantime,
walked out of the cave and looked around him with his attendants. The spot where they stood
was very lofty, and numerous monasteries were visible, scattered here and there in the distance
beneath. There was immediately beyond the winding path in which they were walking a picturesque
and pretty building enclosed by hedges. Its well arranged balconies and the gardens around
it apparently betokened the good taste of its inhabitants. "Whose house may that be?" inquired
Genji of his attendants. They told him it was a house in which a certain priest had been living
for the last two years. "Ah! I know him," said Genji. "Strange, indeed, would it be if he were
to discover that I am here in this privacy." They noticed a nun and a few more females with
her walking in the garden, who were carrying fresh water for their offerings, and were gathering
flowers. "Ah! there are ladies walking there," cried the attendants in tones of surprise. "Surely,
the Reverend Father would not indulge in flirtations! Who can they be?" And some of them even
descended a little distance, and peered over the enclosure, where a pretty little girl was
also seen amongst them.

Genji now engaged in prayer until the sun sank in the heavens. His attendants, who were anxious
about his disease, told him that it would be good for him to have a change from time to time.
Hereupon, he advanced to the back of the temple, and his gaze fell on the far-off Capital in
the distance, which was enveloped in haze as the dusk was setting in, over the tops of the
trees around. "What a lovely landscape!" exclaimed Genji. "The people to whom such scenery
is familiar, are perhaps happy and contented." "Nay," said the attendants, "but were you to
see the beautiful mountain ranges and the sea-coast in our various provinces, the pictures
would indeed be found lovely." Then some of them described to him Fuji Yama, while others told
him of other mountains, diverting his attention by their animated description of the beautiful
bays and coasts of the Western Provinces; thus as they depicted them to him, they cheered and
gladdened his mind. One of them went on to say: "Among such sights and at no great distance,
there is the sea-coast of Akashi, in the Province of Harima, which is, I think, especially
beautiful. I cannot, indeed, point out in detail its most remarkable features, but, in general,
the blue expanse of the sea is singularly charming. Here, too, the home of the former Governor
of the Province constitutes an object of great attraction. He has assumed the tonsure, and
resides there with his beautiful daughter. He is the descendant of a high personage, and was
not without hope of elevation at Court, but, being of an eccentric character, he was strongly
averse to society. He had formerly been a Chiûjiô of the Imperial Guard, but having resigned
that office, had become Governor of Harima. He was not, however, popular in that office. In
this state of affairs he reflected within himself, no doubt, that his presence in the Capital
could not but be disagreeable. When, therefore, his term of office expired, he determined still
to remain in the province. He did not, however, go to the mountainous regions of the interior,
but chose the sea-coast. There are in this district several places which are well situated
for quiet retirement, and it would have seemed inconsistent in him had he preferred a part
of the sea-coast so near the gay world; nevertheless, a retreat in the too remote interior
would have been too solitary, and might have met with objections on the part of his wife and
child. For this reason, it appears, that he finally selected the place which I have already
alluded to for the sake of his family. When I went down there last time, I became acquainted
with the history and circumstances of the family, and I found that though he may not have been
well received in the Capital, yet, that here, having been formerly governor, he enjoys considerable
popularity and respect. His residence, moreover, is well appointed and of sufficient magnitude,
and he performs with punctuality and devoutness his religious duties--nay, almost with more
earnestness than many regular priests." Here Genji interrupted. "What is his daughter like?"
"Without doubt," answered his companion, "the beauty of her person is unrivalled, and she is
endowed with corresponding mental ability. Successive governors often offer their addresses
to her with great sincerity, but no one has ever yet been accepted. The dominant idea of her
father seems to be this: 'What, have I sunk to such a position! Well, I trust, at least, that
my only daughter may be successful and prosperous in her life!' He often told her, I heard,
that if she survived him, and if his fond hopes for her should not be realized, it would be
better for her to cast herself into the sea."

Genji was much interested in this conversation, and the rest of the company laughingly said,
"Ah! she is a woman who is likely to become the Queen of the Blue Main. In very truth her father
must be an extraordinary being!"

The attendant who had given this account of the ex-governor and his daughter, was the son of
the present Governor of the Province. He was until lately a Kurand, and this year had received
the title of Jugoi. His name was Yoshikiyo, and he, too, was a man of gay habits, which gave
occasion to one of his companions to observe: "Ah! perhaps you also have been trying to disappoint
the hopes of the aged father." Another said, "Well, our friend has given us a long account,
but we must take it with some reserve. She must be, after all, a country maiden, and all that
I can give credit to is this much: that her mother may be a woman of some sense, who takes
great care of the girl. I am only afraid that if any future governor should be seized with
an ardent desire to possess her, she would not long remain unattached."

"What possible object could it serve if she were carried to the bottom of the sea? The natives
of the deep would derive no pleasure from her charms," remarked Genji, while he himself secretly
desired to behold her.

"Ay," thought his companions, "with his susceptible temperament, what wonder if this story
touches him."

The day was far advanced, and the Prince prepared to leave the mountain. The Hermit, however,
told him that it would be better to spend the evening in the Temple, and to be further prayed
for. His attendants also supported this suggestion. So Genji made up his mind to stay there,
saying, "Then I shall not return home till to-morrow."

The days at this season were of long duration, and he felt it rather tiresome to pass a whole
evening in sedate society, so, under the cover of the shades of the evening, he went out of
the Temple, and proceeded to the pretty building enclosed by hedges. All the attendants had
been despatched home except Koremitz, who accompanied him. They peeped at this building through
the hedges. In the western antechamber of the house was placed an image of Buddha, and here
an evening service was performed. A nun, raising a curtain before Buddha, offered a garland
of flowers on the altar, and placing a Kiô (or Sutra, i.e., Buddhist Bible) on her "arm-stool,"
proceeded to read it. She seemed to be rather more than forty years old. Her face was rather
round, and her appearance was noble. Her hair was thrown back from her forehead and was cut
short behind, which suited her very well. She was, however, pale and weak, her voice, also,
being tremulous. Two maiden attendants went in and out of the room waiting upon her, and a
little girl ran into the room with them. She was about ten years old or more, and wore a white
silk dress, which fitted her well and which was lined with yellow. Her hair was waved like
a fan, and her eyes were red from crying. "What is the matter? Have you quarrelled with the
boy?" exclaimed the nun, looking at her. There was some resemblance between the features of
the child and the nun, so Genji thought that she possibly might be her daughter.

"Inuki has lost my sparrow, which I kept so carefully in the cage," replied the child.

"That stupid boy," said one of the attendants. "Has he again been the cause of this? Where
can the bird be gone? And all this, too, after we had tamed it with so much care." She then
left the room, possibly to look for the lost bird. The people who addressed her called her
Shiônagon, and she appeared to have been the little girl's nurse.

"To you," said the nun to the girl, "the sparrow may be dearer than I may be, who am so ill;
but have I not told you often that the caging of birds is a sin? Be a good girl; come nearer!"

The girl advanced and stood silent before her, her face being bathed in tears. The contour
of the child-like forehead and of the small and graceful head was very pleasing. Genji, as
he surveyed the scene from without, thought within himself, "If she is thus fair in her girlhood,
what will she be when she is grown up?" One reason why Genji was so much attracted by her was,
that she greatly resembled a certain lady in the Palace, to whom he, for a long time, had been
fondly attached. The nun stroked the beautiful hair of the child and murmured to herself, "How
splendid it looks! Would that she would always strive to keep it thus. Her extreme youth makes
me anxious, however. Her mother departed this life when she only a very young girl, but she
was quite sensible at the age of this one. Supposing that I were to leave her behind, I wonder
what would happen to her!" As she thus murmured, her countenance became saddened by her forebodings.

The sight moved Genji's sympathy as he gazed. It seemed that the tender heart of the child
was also touched, for she silently watched the expression of the nun's features, and then with
downcast eyes bent her face towards the ground, the lustrous hair falling over her back in waves.

The nun hummed, in a tone sufficiently audible to Genji,

    "The dews that wet the tender grass,
    At the sun's birth, too quickly pass,
    Nor e'er can hope to see it rise
    In full perfection to the skies."

Shiônagon, who now joined them, and heard the above distich, consoled the nun with the following:--

    "The dews will not so quickly pass,
      Nor shall depart before they see
    The full perfection of the grass,
      They loved so well in infancy."

At this juncture a priest entered and said, "Do you know that this very day Prince Genji visited
the hermit in order to be exorcised by him. I must forthwith go and see him."

Genji observing this movement quickly returned to the monastery, thinking as he went what a
lovely girl he had seen. "I can guess from this," thought he, "why those gay fellows (referring
to his attendants) so often make their expeditions in search of good fortune. What a charming
little girl have I seen to-day! Who can she be? Would that I could see her morning and evening
in the palace, where I can no longer see the fair loved one whom she resembles!" He now returned
to the monastery, and retired to his quarters. Soon after a disciple of the priest came and
delivered a message from him through Koremitz, saying, "My master has just heard of the Prince's
visit to the mountain, and would have waited on him at once, but thought it better to postpone
calling. Nevertheless he would be much pleased to offer a humble welcome, and feels disappointed
that he has not yet had an opportunity of doing so."

Genji said in reply, "I have been afflicted with constant attacks of ague for the last few
weeks, and, therefore, by the advice of my friends, I came to this mountain to be exorcised.
If, however, the spells of the holy man are of no avail to me, his reputation might suffer
in consequence. For that reason I wish to keep my visit as private as possible, nevertheless
I will come now to your master." Thereupon the priest himself soon made his appearance, and,
after briefly relating the circumstances which had occasioned his retirement to this locality,
he offered to escort Genji to his house, saying, "My dwelling is but a rustic cottage, but
still I should like you to see, at least, the pretty mountain streamlet which waters my garden."

Genji accepted the offer, thinking as he went, "I wonder what the priest has said at home about
myself to those to whom I have not yet been introduced. But it will be pleasant to see them
once more."

The night was moonless. The fountain was lit up by torches, and many lamps also were lighted
in the garden. Genji was taken to an airy room in the southern front of the building, where
incense which was burning threw its sweet odors around. The priest related to him many interesting
anecdotes, and also spoke eloquently of man's future destiny. Genji as he heard him, felt some
qualms of conscience, for he remembered that his own conduct was far from being irreproachable.
The thought troubled him that he would never be free from the sting of these recollections
through his life, and that there was a world to come, too! "Oh, could I but live in a retreat
like this priest!" As he thus thought of a retreat, he was involuntarily taken by a fancy,
that how happy would he be if accompanied to such a retreat by such a girl as he had seen in
the evening, and with this fancy her lovely face rose up before him.

Suddenly he said to the priest, "I had once a dream which made me anxious to know who was living
in this house, and here to-day that dream has again come back to my memory!" The priest laughed,
and said, "A strange dream! even were you to obtain your wish it might not gratify you. The
late Lord Azechi Dainagon died long ago, and perhaps you know nothing about him. Well! his
widow is my sister, and since her husband's death her health has not been satisfactory, so
lately she has been living here in retirement."

"Ah, yes," said Genji, venturing upon a guess, "and I heard that she bore a daughter to Dainagon."

"Yes, she had a daughter, but she died about ten years ago. After her father's death the sole
care of her fell upon her widowed mother alone. I know not how it came to pass, but she became
secretly intimate with Prince Hiôbkiô. But the Prince's wife was very jealous and severe, so
she had much to suffer and put up with. I saw personally the truth that 'care kills more than
labor.'"

"Ah, then," thought Genji, "the little one is her daughter, and no wonder that she resembles
the one in the palace (because Prince Hiôbkiô was the brother of the Princess Wistaria). How
would it be if I had free control over her, and had her brought up and educated according to
my own notions?" So thinking, he proceeded to say how sad it was that she died! "Did she leave
any offspring?"

"She gave birth to a child at her death, which was also a girl, and about this girl the grandmother
is always feeling very anxious."

"Then," said Genji, "let it not appear strange to you if I say this, but I should be very happy
to become the guardian of this girl. Will you speak to her grandmother about it? It is true
that there is one to whom my lot is linked, but I care but little for her, and indeed usually
lead a solitary life."

"Your offer is very kind," replied the priest, "but she is extremely young. However every woman
grows up under the protecting care of some one, and so I cannot say much about her, only it
shall be mentioned to my sister."

The priest said this with a grave and even a stern expression on his countenance, which caused
Genji to drop the subject.

He then asked the Prince to excuse him, for it was the hour for vespers, and as he quitted
the room to attend the service, said he would return as soon as it was finished.

Genji was alone. A slight shower fell over the surrounding country, and the mountain breezes
blew cool. The waters of the torrent were swollen, and the roar of them might be heard from
afar. Broken and indistinct, one might hear the melancholy sound of the sleepy intonation of
prayers. Even those people who have no sorrow of their own often feel melancholy from the circumstances
in which they are placed. So Genji, whose mind was occupied in thought, could not slumber here.
The priest said he was going to vespers, but in reality it was later than the proper time for
them. Genji perceived that the inmates had not yet retired to rest in the inner apartments
of the house. They were very quiet, yet the sound of the telling of beads, which accidentally
struck the lectern, was heard from time to time. The room was not far from his own. He pulled
the screen slightly aside, and standing near the door, he struck his fan on his hand, to summon
some one.

"What can be the matter," said an attendant, and as she came near to the Prince's room she
added, "Perhaps my ear was deceived," and she began to retire.

"Buddha will guide you; fear not the darkness, I am here," said Genji.

"Sir!" replied the servant, timidly.

"Pray do not think me presumptuous," said Genji; "but may I beg you to transmit this poetical
effusion to your mistress for me?

    Since first that tender grass I viewed,
      My heart no soft repose e'er feels,
    But gathering mist my sleeve bedews,
      And pity to my bosom steals."

"Surely you should know, sir, that there is no one here to whom such things can be presented!"

"Believe me, I have my own reasons for this," said Genji. "Let me beseech you to take it."

So the attendant went back, and presented it to the nun.

"I do not see the real intent of the effusion," thought the nun. "Perhaps he thinks that she
is already a woman. But"--she continued, wonderingly--"how could he have known about the young
grass?" And she then remained silent for a while. At last, thinking it would be unbecoming
to take no notice of it, she gave orally the following reply to the attendant to be given to
Genji:--

    "You say your sleeve is wet with dew,
    'Tis but one night alone for you,
    But there's a mountain moss grows nigh,
    Whose leaves from dew are never dry."

When Genji heard this, he said: "I am not accustomed to receive an answer such as this through
the mouth of a third person. Although I thank the lady for even that much, I should feel more
obliged to her if she would grant me an interview, and allow me to explain to her my sincere
wishes."

This at length obliged the nun to have an interview with the Prince. He then told her that
he called Buddha to witness that, though his conduct may have seemed bold, it was dictated
by pure and conscientious motives.

"All the circumstances of your family history are known to me," continued he. "Look upon me,
I pray, as a substitute for your once loved daughter. I, too, when a mere infant, was deprived
by death of my best friend--my mother--and the years and months which then rolled by were fraught
with trouble to me. In that same position your little one is now. Allow us, then, to become
friends. We could sympathize with each other. 'Twas to reveal these wishes to you that I came
here, and risked the chance of offending you in doing so."

"Believe me, I am well disposed at your offer," said the nun; "but you may have been incorrectly
informed. It is true that there is a little girl dependent upon myself, but she is but a child.
Her society could not afford you any pleasure; and forgive me, therefore, if I decline your
request."

"Yet let there be no reserve in the expression of your ideas," interrupted Genji; but, before
they could talk further, the return of the priest put an end to the subject, and Genji retired
to his quarters, after thanking the nun for his kind reception.

The night passed away, and dawn appeared. The sky was again hazy, and here and there melodious
birds were singing among the mountain shrubs and flowers that blossomed around. The deer, too,
which were to be seen here, added to the beauty of the picture. Gazing around at these Genji
once more proceeded to the temple. The hermit--though too infirm to walk--again contrived to
offer up his prayers on Genji's behalf, and he also read from the Darani.[61] The tremulous
accents of the old man--poured forth from his nearly toothless mouth--imparted a greater reverence
to his prayers.

Genji's attendants now arrived from the capital, and congratulated him on the improvement in
his health. A messenger was despatched from the Imperial Palace for the same purpose. The priest
now collected wild and rare fruits, not to be met with in the distant town, and, with all respect,
presented them to Genji, saying: "The term of my vow has not yet expired; and I am, therefore,
sorry to say that I am unable to descend the mountain with you on your departure." He then
offered to him the parting cup of saké.

"This mountain, with its waters, fill me with admiration," said Genji, "and I regret that the
anxiety of my father the Emperor obliges me to quit the charming scene; but before the season
is past, I will revisit it: and--

    The city's folk from me shall hear
    How mountain cherries blossom fair,
    And ere the Spring has passed away,
    I'll bid them view the prospect gay."

To this the priest replied--

    "Your noble presence seems to me
    Like the rare flowers of Udon tree,[62]
    Nor does the mountain cherry white,
    Attract my gaze while you're in sight."

Genji smiled slightly, and said: "That is a very great compliment; but the Udon tree does not
blossom so easily."

The hermit also raised the cup to his lips, and said:--

    "Opening my lonely hermit's door,
      Enclosed around by mountain pine,
    A blossom never seen before
      My eyes behold that seems divine."

And he presented to him his toko (a small ecclesiastical wand). On seeing this, the priest
also made him the following presents:--A rosary of Kongôji (a kind of precious stone), which
the sage Prince Shôtok obtained from Corea, enclosed in the original case in which it had been
sent from that country; some medicine of rare virtue in a small emerald jar; and several other
objects, with a spray of Wistaria, and a branch of cherry blossoms.

Genji, too, on the other hand, made presents, which he had ordered from the capital, to the
hermit and his disciples who had taken part in the religious ceremonies, and also to the poor
mountaineers. He also sent the following to the nun, by the priest's page:--

    "In yester-eve's uncertain light,
    A flower I saw so young and bright,
    But like a morning mist. Now pain
    Impels me yet to see again."

A reply from the nun was speedily brought to him, which ran thus:--

    "You say you feel, perhaps 'tis true,
      A pang to leave these mountain bowers,
    For sweet the blossoms, sweet the view,
      To strangers' eyes of mountain flowers."

While this was being presented to him in his carriage, a few more people came, as if accidentally,
to wait upon him on his journey. Among them was Tô-no-Chiûjiô, and his brother Ben, who said:
"We are always pleased to follow you; it was unkind of you to leave us behind."

Just as the party were on the point of starting, some of them observed that it was a pity to
leave so lovely a spot without resting awhile among the flowers. This was immediately agreed
to, and they took their seats on a moss-grown rock, a short distance from which a little streamlet
descended in a murmuring cascade.

They there began to drink saké, and Tô-no-Chiûjiô taking his flute, evoked from it a rich and
melodious strain; while Ben, tapping his fan in concert, sang "The Temple of Toyora," while
the Prince, as he leaned against a rock, presented a picturesque appearance, though he was
pale and thin.

Among the attendants was one who blew on a long flute, called Hichiriki, and another on a Shiô
flute. The priest brought a koto, and begged Genji to perform upon it, saying: "If we are to
have music at all, let us have a harmonious concert." Genji said that he was no master of music;
but, nevertheless, he played, with fair ability, a pleasing air. Then they all rose up, and
departed.

After they had quitted the mountain, Genji first of all went to the Palace, where he immediately
had an interview with the Emperor, who considered his son to be still weak in health; and who
asked him several questions with regard to the efficacy of the prayers of the reverend hermit.
Genji gave him all particulars of his visit to the mountain.

"Ah!" said the Emperor, "he may some day be entitled to become a dean (Azali). His virtue and
holiness have not yet been duly appreciated by the government and the nation."

Sadaijin, the father-in-law of the Prince, here entered, and entreated Genji to accompany him
to his mansion, and spend a few days. Genji did not feel very anxious to accept this invitation,
but was persuaded to do so. Sadaijin conveyed him in his own carriage, and gave up to him the
seat of honor.

They arrived; but, as usual, his bride did not appear, and only presented herself at last at
the earnest request of her father. She was one of those model princesses whom one may see in
a picture--very formal and very sedate--and it was very difficult to draw her into conversation.
She was very uninteresting to Genji. He thought that it would only lead to a very unpleasant
state of affairs, as years grew on, if they were to be as cool and reserved to each other as
they had been hitherto. Turning to her, he said, with some reproachfulness in his accents,
"Surely you should sometimes show me a little of the ordinary affection of people in our position!"

She made no reply; but, glancing coolly upon him, murmured with modest, yet dignified, tone--

     "When you cease to care for me,
     What can I then do for thee?"

"Your words are few; but they have a sting in them. You say I cease to care for you; but you
do me wrong in saying so. May the time come when you will no longer pain me thus," said Genji;
and he made every effort to conciliate her. But she was not easily appeased. He was unsuccessful
in his effort, and presently they retired to their apartment, where he soon relapsed into sleepy
indifference. His thoughts began to wander back into other regions, and hopes of the future
growth and charms of the young mountain-violet again occupied his mind. "Oh! how difficult
it is to secure a prize," thought he. "How can I do so? Her father, Prince Hiôbkiô, is a man
of rank, and affable, but he is not of prepossessing appearance. Why does his daughter resemble
so much, in her personal attractions, the lovely one in the chamber of Wistaria. Is it that
the mother of her father and of Wistaria is the same person? How charming is the resemblance
between them! How can I make her mine?"

Some days afterwards he sent a letter to the mountain home, and also a communication--perhaps
with some hint in it--to the priest. In his letter to the nun he said that her indifference
made it desirable to refrain from urging his wishes; but, nevertheless, that he should be deeply
gratified if she would think more favorably of the idea which was now so deeply rooted in his
mind. Inside the letter he enclosed a small folded slip of paper, on which was written:--

    "The mountain flower I left behind
      I strive but vainly to forget,
    Those lovely traits still rise to mind
      And fill my heart with sad regret."

This ludicrous effusion caused the nun to be partly amused and partly vexed. She wrote an answer
as follows:--

"When you came into our neighborhood your visit was very pleasing to us, and your special message
does us honor. I am, however, at a loss how to express myself with regard to the little one,
as yet she cannot even manage the naniwadz."[63]

Enclosed in the note were the following lines, in which she hinted as to her doubts of the
steadfastness of Genji's character:

    "Your heart admires the lowly flower
    That dwells within our mountain bower.
    Not long, alas! that flower may last
    Torn by the mountain's angry blast."

The tenor of the priest's answer was much the same, and it caused Genji some vexation.

About this time the Lady Wistaria, in consequence of an attack of illness, had retired from
the palace to her private residence, and Genji, while sympathizing with the anxiety of the
Emperor about her, longed greatly for an opportunity of seeing her, ill though she was. Hence
at this time he went nowhere, but kept himself in his mansion at Nijiô, and became thoughtful
and preoccupied. At length he endeavored to cajole Ô Miôbu, Wistaria's attendant, into arranging
an opportunity for him to see her. On Wistaria's part there were strong doubts as to the propriety
of complying with his request, but at last the earnestness of the Prince overcame her scruples,
and Ô Miôbu managed eventually to bring about a meeting between them.[64]

Genji gave vent to his feelings to the Princess, as follows:--

    "Though now we meet, and not again
      We e'er may meet, I seem
    As though to die, I were full fain
      Lost in this blissful dream."

Then the Princess replied to him, full of sadness:--

    "We might dream on but fear the name,
      The envious world to us may give,
    Forgetful of the darkened fame,
      That lives when we no longer live."

For some time after this meeting had taken place, Genji found himself too timid to appear at
his father's palace, and remained in his mansion. The Princess, too, experienced a strong feeling
of remorse. She had, moreover, a cause of anxiety special in its nature and peculiar to herself
as a woman, for which she alone felt some uneasiness of conscience.

Three months of the summer had passed away, and her secret began to betray itself externally.
The Emperor was naturally anxious about the health of his favorite, and kind inquiries were
sent from time to time to her. But the kinder he was to her the more conscience-stricken she felt.

Genji at this time was often visited by strange dreams. When he consulted a diviner about them,
he was told that something remarkable and extraordinary might happen to him, and that it behooved
him to be cautious and prudent.

"Here is a pretty source of embarrassment," thought Genji.

He cautioned the diviner to be discreet about it, especially because he said the dreams were
not his own but another person's. When at last he heard authentically about the condition of
the Princess, he was extremely anxious to communicate with her, but she now peremptorily objected
to any kind of correspondence between them, and Ô Miôbu too refused any longer to assist him.

In July Wistaria returned to the palace. There she was received by the Emperor with great rejoicing,
and he thought that her condition did but add to her attractiveness.

It was now autumn, the season when agreeable receptions were often held by the Emperor in Court,
and it was awkward when Genji and the Princess happened to face each other on these occasions,
as neither of them could be free from their tender recollections.

During these autumn evenings the thoughts of Genji were often directed to the granddaughter
of the nun, especially because she resembled the Princess so much. His desire to possess her
was considerably increased, and the recollection of the first evening when he heard the nun
intoning to herself the verses about the tender grass, recurred to his mind. "What," thought
he, "if I pluck this tender grass, would it then be, would it then grow up, as fair as now."

    "When will be mine this lovely flower
      Of tender grace and purple hue?
    Like the Wistaria of the bower,
      Its charms are lovely to my view."

The Emperor's visit to the Palace Suzak-in was now announced to take place in October, and
dancers and musicians were selected from among the young nobles who were accomplished in these
arts, and Royal Princes and officers of State were fully engaged in preparation for the fête.
After the Royal festivities, a separate account of which will be given hereafter, he sent again
a letter to the mountain. The answer, however, came only from the priest, who said that his
sister had died on the twentieth day of the last month; and added that though death is inevitable
to all of us, still he painfully felt her loss.

Genji pondered first on the precariousness of human life, and then thought how that little
one who had depended on her must be afflicted, and gradually the memory of his own childhood,
during which he too had lost his mother, came back to his mind.

When the time of full mourning was over, Shiônagon, together with the young girl, returned
to their house in the capital. There one evening Genji paid them a visit. The house was rather
a gloomy one, and was tenanted by fewer inmates than usual.

"How timid the little girl must feel!" thought Genji, as he was shown in. Shiônagon now told
him with tearful eyes every circumstance which had taken place since she had seen him. She
also said that the girl might be handed over to her father, who told her that she must do so,
but his present wife was said to be very austere. The girl is not young enough to be without
ideas and wishes of her own, but yet not old enough to form them sensibly; so were she to be
taken to her father's house and be placed with several other children, much misery would be
the result. Her grandmother suffered much on this account. "Your kindness is great," continued
she, "and we ought not, perhaps, to think too anxiously about the future. Still she is young,
too young, and we cannot think of it without pity."

"Why do you recur to that so often?" said Genji, "it is her very youthfulness which moves my
sympathy. I am anxious to talk to her,

    Say, can the wave that rolls to land,
      Return to ocean's heaving breast,
    Nor greet the weed upon the strand
      With one wild kiss, all softly pressed.

How sweet it would be!"

"That is very beautifully put, sir," said Shiônagon, "but,

    Half trembling at the coming tide
      That rolls about the sea-beat sand,
    Say, can the tender weed untried,
      Be trusted to its boisterous hand?"

Meanwhile the girl, who was with her companions in her apartment, and who was told that a gentleman
in Court dress had arrived, and that perhaps it was the Prince, her father, came running in,
saying, "Shiônagon, where is the gentleman in Court dress; has the Prince, my father, arrived?"

"Not the Prince, your father," uttered Genji, "but I am here, and I too am your friend. Come here!"

The girl, glancing with shy timidity at Genji, for whom she already had some liking, and thinking
that perhaps there was impropriety in what she had spoken, went over to her nurse, and said,
"Oh! I am very sleepy, and wish to lie down!"

"See how childish she still is," remarked Shiônagon.

"Why are you so timid, little one, come here and sleep on my knees," said Genji.

"Go, my child, as you are asked," observed Shiônagon, and she pushed her towards Genji.

Half-unconsciously she took her place by his side. He pushed aside a small shawl which covered
her hair, and played with her long tresses, and then he took her small hand in his. "Ah, my
hand!" cried she, and drawing it back, she ran into a neighboring room. Genji followed her,
and tried to coax her out of her shyness, telling her that he was one of her best friends,
and that she was not to be so timid.

By this time darkness had succeeded to the beautiful evening, and hail began to fall.

"Close the casement, it is too fearful, I will watch over you this evening," said Genji, as
he led the girl away, to the great surprise of Shiônagon and others who wondered at his ease
in doing this.

By and by she became sleepy, and Genji, as skilfully as any nurse could, removed all her outer
clothing, and placed her on the couch to sleep, telling her as he sat beside her, "some day
you must come with me to some beautiful palace, and there you shall have as many pictures and
playthings as you like." Many other similar remarks he added to arrest her attention and to
please her.

Her fears gradually subsided, and as she kept looking on the handsome face of Genji, and taking
notice of his kindness, she did not fall asleep for some time.

When the night was advanced, and the hailstorm had passed away, Genji at last took his departure.
The temperature now suddenly changed, and the hail was lying white upon the grass. "Can it
be," thought he, "that I am leaving this place as a lover?" At that moment he remembered that
the house of a maiden with whom he had had an acquaintance was on his road home. When he came
near to it he ordered one of his attendants to knock at the door. No one, however, came forth.
Thereupon Genji turned to another, who had a remarkably good voice, and ordered him to sing
the following lines:--

    "Though wandering in the morning gray,
      This gate is one I cannot pass,
    A tender memory bids me stay
      To see once more a pretty lass."

This was repeated twice, when presently a man came to the door and sang, in reply, as follows:--

    "If you cannot pass the gate,
    Welcome all to stop and wait.
    Nought prevents you. Do not fear,
    For the gate stands always here."

And then went in, slamming the door in their faces, and appearing no more. Genji, therefore
disappointed, proceeded on his way home.

On the morrow he took up his pen to write a letter to Violet, but finding that he had nothing
in particular to say, he laid it aside, and instead of a letter several beautiful pictures
were sent for her.

From this time Koremitz was sent there very often, partly to do them service, and partly to
watch over their movements. At last the time when the girl's father was to take her home approached
within a night, and Shiônagon was busily occupied in sewing a dress for the girl, and was thus
consequently unable to take much notice of Koremitz when he arrived. Noting these preparatory
arrangements, Koremitz at once hastened to inform Genji about them. He happened to be this
evening at the mansion of Sadaijin, but Lady Aoi was not, as was often the case, with him,
and he was amusing himself there with thumping a wagon as he sang a "Hitachi" song. Koremitz
presented himself before him, and gave him the latest information of what was going on.

Genji, when he had listened to Koremitz, thought, "This will never do; I must not lose her
in this way. But the difficulty is indeed perplexing. If, on the one hand, she goes to her
father, it will not become me to ask him for her. If, on the other hand, I carry her off, people
may say that I stole her. However, upon consideration, this latter plan, if I can manage to
shut people's mouths beforehand, will be much better than that I should demand her from her
father."

So, turning to Koremitz, he said, "I must go there. See that the carriage is ready at whatever
hour I may appoint. Let two or three attendants be in readiness." Koremitz, having received
these orders, retired.

Long before dawn broke, Genji prepared to leave the mansion. Lady Aoi, as usual, was a little
out of temper, but Genji told her that he had some particular arrangements to make at his mansion
at Nijiô, but that he would soon return to her. He soon started, Koremitz alone following him
on horseback.

On their arrival Koremitz proceeded to a small private entrance and announced himself. Shiônagon
recognized his voice and came out, and upon this he informed her that the Prince had come.
She, presuming that he did so only because he happened to pass by them, said, "What! at this
late hour?" As she spoke, Genji came up and said:--

"I hear that the little one is to go to the Prince, her father, and I wish to say a few words
to her before she goes."

"She is asleep; really, I am afraid that she cannot talk with you at this hour. Besides, what
is the use?" replied Shiônagon, with a smile.

Genji, however, pressed his way into the house, saying:--

"Perhaps the girl is not awake yet, but I will awake her," and, as the people could not prevent
his doing so, he proceeded to the room where she was unconsciously sleeping on a couch. He
shook her gently. She started up, thinking it was her father who had come.

Genji pushed the hair back from her face, as he said to her, "I am come from your father;"
but this she knew to be false, and was alarmed. "Don't be frightened," said Genji; "there is
nothing in me to alarm you." And in spite of Shiônagon's request not to disturb her, he lifted
her from the couch, abruptly saying that he could not allow her to go elsewhere, and that he
had made up his mind that he himself would be her guardian. He also said she should go with
him, and that some of them should go with her.

Shiônagon was thunderstruck. "We are expecting her father to-morrow, and what are we to say
to him?" She added, "Surely, you can find some better opportunity to manage matters than this."

"All right, you can come afterward; we will go first," retorted Genji, as he ordered his carriage
to drive up.

Shiônagon was perplexed, and Violet also cried, thinking how strange all this was. At last
Shiônagon saw it was no use to resist, and so having hurriedly changed her own dress for a
better one, and taking with her the pretty dress of Violet which she had been making in the
evening, got into the carriage, where Genji had already placed the little one.

It was no great distance to Nijiô, and they arrived there before dawn. The carriage was driven
up to the western wing of the mansion. To Shiônagon the whole affair seemed like a dream. "What
am I to do?" she said to Genji, who teasingly answered, "What you choose. You may go if you
like; so long as this darling is here I am content." Genji lifted the girl out and carried
her into the house. That part of the mansion in which they now were, had not been inhabited,
and the furniture was scanty and inappropriate; so, calling Koremitz, the Prince ordered him
to see that proper furniture was brought. The beds were therefore taken from the eastern wing,
where he himself lived.

Day broke, and Shiônagon surveyed with admiration all the magnificence with which she was surrounded.
Both the exterior of the building and its internal arrangements left nothing to be desired.
Going to the casement, she saw the gravelled walks flashing brightly in the sun. "Ah," thought
she, "where am I amidst all this splendor? This is too grand for me!"

Bath water for their ablutions, and rice soup were now brought into the apartment, and Genji
afterward made his appearance.

"What! no attendants? No one to play with the girl? I will send some," and he then ordered
some young persons from the eastern wing of the mansion. Four accordingly came.

Violet was still fast asleep in her night-dress, and now Genji gently shook and woke her. "Do
not be frightened any more," he said quietly to her; "a good girl would not be so, but would
know that it is best to be obedient." She became more and more pleasing to him, and he tried
to please her by presenting to her a variety of pretty pictures and playthings, and by consulting
her wishes in whatever she desired. She was still wearing the dress of mourning, of sombre
color and of soft material, and it was only now at last that she began to smile a little, and
this filled Genji with delight. He now had to return to the eastern wing, and Violet, for the
first time, went to the casement and looked out on the scenery around. The trees covered with
foliage, a small lake, and the plantations round about expanded before her as in a picture.
Here and there young people were going in and out. "Ah! what a pretty place," she exclaimed,
charmed as she gazed around. Then, turning again into the apartment, she saw beautiful pictures
painted on the screens and walls, which could not but please her.

Genji did not go to the Palace for two or three days, but spent his time in trying to train
Violet. "She must soon take lessons in writing," he thought, and he wrote several writing copies
for her. Among these was one in plain characters on violet-colored paper, with the title, "Musashi-no"
(The field of Musashi is known for its violets). She took it up, and in handwriting plain and
clear though small, she found the following:

    Though still a bud the violet be,
      A still unopened blossom here,
    Its tenderness has charms for me,
      Recalling one no longer near.

"Come, you must write one now," said Genji.

"I cannot write well enough," said Violet, looking up at him, with an extremely charming look.

"Never mind, whether good or bad," said he, "but still write something, to refuse is unkind.
When there is any difficulty I will help you through with it."

Thereupon she turned aside shyly and wrote something, handling the pen gracefully with her
tiny fingers. "I have done it badly," she cried out, and tried to conceal what she had written,
but Genji insisted on seeing it and found the following:--

     I wonder what's the floweret's name,
     From which that bud its charm may claim!

This was, of course, written in a childish hand, but the writing was large and plain, giving
promise of future excellence.

"How like her grandmother's it is," thought Genji. "Were she to take lessons from a good professor
she might become a master of the art."

He ordered for her a beautiful doll's house, and played with her different innocent and amusing
games.

In the meantime, the Prince, her father, had duly arrived at the old home of Violet and asked
for her. The servants were embarrassed, but as they had been requested by Genji not to tell,
and as Shiônagon had also enjoined them to keep silence, they simply told him that the nurse
had taken her and absconded. The Prince was greatly amazed, but he remembered that the girl's
grandmother never consented to send his daughter to his house, and knowing Shiônagon to be
a shrewd and intelligent woman, he concluded that she had found out the reasons which influenced
her, and that so out of respect to her, and out of dislike to tell him the reason of it, she
had carried the girl off in order that she might be kept away from him. He therefore merely
told the servants to inform him at once if they heard anything about them, and he returned home.

Our story again brings us back to Nijiô. The girl gradually became reconciled to her new home,
as she was most kindly treated by Genji. True, during those evenings when Genji was absent
she thought of her dead grandmother, but the image of her father never presented itself to
her, as she had seldom seen him. And now, naturally enough, Genji, whom she had learned to
look upon as a second father, was the only one for whom she cared. She was the first to greet
him when he came home, and she came forward to be fondled and caressed by him without shame
or diffidence. Girls at her age are usually shy and under restraint, but with her it was quite
different. And again, if a girl has somewhat of jealousy in her disposition, and looks upon
every little trifle in a serious light, a man will have to be cautious in his dealings with
her, and she herself, too, will often have to undergo vexation. Thus many disagreeable and
unexpected incidents might often result. In the case of Violet, however, things were very different,
and she was ever amiable and invariably pleasant.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 61: An Indian theological writing.]

[Footnote 62: In the Buddhist Bible it is stated that there is in Paradise a divine tree, called
Udon, which rarely blossoms. When, however, it does blossom, Buddha is said to appear in the
world, therefore we make use of this expression when referring to any rare event.]

[Footnote 63: The name of a song which in those days formed the first lesson in writing.]

[Footnote 64: The authoress represents her in a subsequent chapter as suffering punishment
in the next world for this sin. The real cause of Genji's exile is also supposed to have resulted
from the same sin.]

CHAPTER VI

SAFFRON FLOWER

The beauteous Yûgao of Genji was lost, but memory of her never vanished from his mind. Her
attractive nature, thoughtfulness, and patient manner had seemed to him surpassingly charming.
At last he began to think of seeking for some other maiden who might resemble her in these
qualities. True, his thoughts had often reverted to Cicada, and to her young friend; but it
was now of little use thinking of them, for one had gone to the country, and the other was married.

Now, Genji had another nurse, next in degree to Daini. The daughter of this nurse, Tayû-no-Miôbu,
was in Court service. She was still young, and full of mirth and life. Genji was wont to make
her useful when in the palace. Her father, who had been remotely connected with the Royal blood,
was an official in the War Department. Her mother, however, had been married again to the Governor
of the province of Chikzen, and had gone there with her husband; so Tayû made her father's
house her home, and went from there backwards and forwards to the palace. She was an intimate
acquaintance of a young Princess, the daughter of the late Lord-Lieutenant of Hitachi, and
she had been the child of his old age, and was at this time his survivor. The life that she
passed was somewhat lonely, and her circumstances miserable. Tayû mentioned this young lady
to Genji, who exclaimed:--

"How sad! Tell me all about her."

"I cannot say that I know so much about her," replied Tayû. "She leads a very retired life,
and is seldom seen in society. Perhaps, some favorable evening, you might see her from a hiding-place.
The koto is her favorite instrument, and the favorite amusement of her solitude."

"Ah!" said Genji, "I see, one of the three friends (as the Chinese poets call them)--Music,
Poetry, and Wine; but, of the other two, one is not always a good friend." And he added, "Well,
you may manage some time to let me hear her koto. The Prince, her father, had great taste and
reputation in such arts; so, I believe, she is no ordinary performer."

"But, perhaps, after all, not so good as you imagine," replied Tayû, disingenuously.

"Oh! that remains to be discovered," cried Genji, nibbling at the bait. "One of these evenings
I will come, and you had better be there also."

Now, the home of Tayû's father was at some distance from the Princess's mansion; but Tayû used
to spend her time very often with the Princess, when she had leave of absence from the Court,
chiefly because she did not like being at home with her stepmother. For this reason Tayû had
plenty of chances for gratifying the wish of Genji to see the Princess; so a certain evening
was appointed.

It was a sweet balmy day in spring, and the grounds of the palace were full of silence and
repose. Tayû left the palace, and proceeded to the mansion of the Princess, attracted more
by the beauty of the evening than by the appointment made. Genji also appeared on the scene,
with the newly risen moon, and was soon prattling with Tayû.

"You have not come at a very favorable time," said she. "This is not the sort of evening when
the koto sounds sweetest."

"But take me somewhere, so that I may hear her voice. I cannot go away without hearing that."

Tayû then led him into a private room, where she made him sit down, and left him, saying, as
she went away, "I am sorry to make you wait, but you must have a little patience." She proceeded
to another part of the palace occupied by the Princess, whom she found sitting pensively near
an open casement, inhaling the rich perfume of the plum blossoms.

"A good opportunity," thought Tayû; and, advancing to the Princess, said: "What a lovely evening!
How sweet at such an hour is the music of the koto! My official going to and fro to the palace
prevents me from having the pleasure of hearing it often; so do now, if you please, play me
a tune."

"You appreciate music," said the Princess; "but I am afraid that mine is not good enough to
charm the ear of courtiers; but, if you wish it, I will play one tune." And she ordered the
koto to be brought, and began to strike it. Her skill was certainly not super-excellent; but
she had been well instructed, and the effect was by no means displeasing to the ear.

Tayû, however, it must be remembered, was rather a sharp girl. She did not like Genji to hear
too much, so as to criticise; and, therefore, said to the Princess, casting a glance upwards,
"How changed and dull the sky has become. A friend of mine is waiting; and is, perhaps, impatient.
I must have more of this pleasure some other time; at present I must go and see him." Thus
she caused the Princess to cease playing, and went to Genji, who exclaimed, when she returned,
"Her music seems pretty good; but I had better not have heard it at all. How can we judge by
so little? If you are willing to oblige me at all, let me hear and see more closely than this."
Tayû made a difficulty. "She is so retiring," she said, "and always keeps herself in the strictest
privacy. Were you to intrude upon her, it would not be acting rightly."

"Truly so," replied Genji; "her position insures her from intrusion. Let us, then, seek for
some better opportunity." And then he prepared to take leave, as if he had some other affairs
on his hands. Tayû observed, with a knowing smile, "The Emperor, your father, always thinks
of you as quite guileless, and actually says so. When I hear these remarks I often laugh in
my sleeve. Were his Majesty to see you in these disguises, what would he then think?"

Genji answered, with a slight laugh: "Nonsense! If these trifling amusements were thought so
improper, how cheerless the life of woman would be!"

Tayû made no remark in reply; so Genji then left the house, and took a stroll round the garden,
intending to reach that part of the mansion where the Princess had her apartments. As he sauntered
along, he came to a thick hedge, in which there was a dark bower, and here wished to stop awhile.
He stepped cautiously into it, when he suddenly perceived a tall man concealed there. "Who
can this be?" thought Genji, as he withdrew to a corner where the moonlight did not reach.
This was Tô-no-Chiûjiô, and the reason of his being there was this:

He had left the Palace that evening in company with Genji, who did not go to his house in Nijiô,
nor to his bride, but separated from him on the road. Tô-no-Chiûjiô was very anxious to find
out where Genji was going. He therefore followed him unperceived. When he saw Genji enter the
mansion of the Princess, he wished to see how the business would end; so he waited in the garden,
in order that he might witness Genji's departure, listening, at the same time, to the koto
of the Princess. Genji did not know who the man was, nor did he wish to be recognized. He therefore
began to retreat slowly on tip-toe, when Tô-no-Chiûjiô came up to him from behind, and addressed
him: "You slighted me, but I have come to watch over you:--

    Though like two wandering moons on high
      We left our vast imperial home,
    We parted on our road, and I
      Knew not where you were bent to roam."

Genji at once recognized his companion; and, being somewhat amused at his pertinacity, exclaimed:
"What an unexpected surprise!

    We all admire the moon, 'tis true,
      Whose home unknown to mortal eye
    Is in the mountains hid, but who
      To find that far-off home, would try?"

Hereupon Tô-no-Chiûjiô gave him a taunt: "What would you do," said he, "if I were to follow
you very often? Were you to maintain true propriety in your position, you ought always to have
trustworthy attendants; and I am sure, by so doing, you will meet with better fortune. I cannot
say that it is very decorous of you to go wandering about in such a fashion. It is too frivolous!"

"How very tiresome!" mentally exclaimed Genji; "but he little knows about his Nadeshiko (little
darling). I have him there!"

Neither of them ventured to go to any other rendezvous that night; but, with many mutual home-thrusts,
they got into a carriage together, and proceeded home, amusing themselves all the way with
a duet on their flutes. Entering the mansion, they went to a small apartment, where they changed
their dresses, and commenced playing the flutes in such a manner as if they had come from the
Palace. The Sadaijin, hearing this music, could not forbear joining them, and blew skilfully
a Corean flute in concert with theirs. Lady Aoi, also, in her room, catching the impulse, ordered
some practised players on the koto to perform.

Meantime, both Genji and Tô-no-Chiûjiô, in their secret minds, were thinking of the notes of
the koto heard before on that evening, and of the bare and pitiable condition of the residence
of the Princess whom they had left--a great contrast to the luxury of their present quarters.
Tô-no-Chiûjiô's idea about her took something of this shape: "If girls who, from a modest propriety,
keep themselves aloof for years from our society, were at last to be subdued by our attentions,
our affection for them would become irresistible, even braving whatever remarks popular scandal
might pass upon us. She may be like one of these. The Prince Genji seems to have made her the
object of some attentions. He is not one to waste his time without reason. He knows what he
is doing."

As these thoughts arose in his mind, a slight feeling of jealousy disturbed him, and made him
ready to dare a little rivalry in that quarter; for, it would appear, that after this day amatory
letters were often sent both by him and Genji to the Princess, who, however, returned no answer
to either.

This silence on her part made Tô-no-Chiûjiô, more especially, think thus: "A strange rejection;
and from one, too, who possesses such a secluded life. True, her birth is high; but that cannot
be the only reason which makes her bury herself in retirement. There must be some stronger
reason, I presume."

As we have before mentioned, Genji and Tô-no-Chiûjiô were so intimate that all ceremony was
dispensed with between them, and they could ask each other any question without reserve. From
this circumstance Tô-no-Chiûjiô one day boldly inquired of Genji: "I dare say you have received
some replies from the Princess. Have you not? I for my part have thrown out some hints in that
quarter by way of experiment, but I gave up in disappointment."

"Ah, then, he too has been trying there," thought Genji, smiling slightly, and he replied very
vaguely, "I am not particularly concerned whether I get an answer or not, therefore I cannot
tell you whether I have received any."

"I understand that," thought Tô-no-Chiûjiô; "perhaps he has got one; I suspect so."

To state the truth, Genji was not very deeply smitten by the Princess, and he was but little
concerned at her sending no reply to his letter; but when he heard the confession of his brother-in-law's
attempts in the same quarter, the spirit of rivalry stirred him once more. "A girl," thought
he, "will yield to him who pays her the most attentions. I must not allow him to excel me in
that." And Genji determined to achieve what he intended to do, and with this object still enlisted
the aid of Tayû. He told her that the Princess's treating his letter with such indifference
was an act of great cruelty. "Perhaps she does this," said he, "because she suspects I am changeable.
I am not, however, such a one as that. It is often only the fault of ladies themselves that
causes men to appear so; besides a lady, like the Princess, who has neither parent nor brother
to interfere with her, is a most desirable acquaintance, as we can maintain our friendship
far better than we could otherwise do."

"Yes! what you say is all very well," replied Tayû, "but the Princess is not exactly so placed
that any one can make himself quite at ease with her. As I told you before she is very bashful
and reserved; but yet is perhaps more desirable for this very reason," and she detailed many
more particulars about her. This enabled Genji to fully picture the general bearing of the
Princess's character; and he thought, "Perhaps her mind is not one of brilliant activity, but
she may be modest, and of a quiet nature, worthy of attention." And so he kept the recollection
of her alive in his mind. Before, however, he met her, many events had taken place. He had
been attacked by the ague, which led to his journey to the mountain and his discovery of Violet,
and his secret affection for a certain one in the palace.

His mind being thus otherwise occupied, the spring and summer passed away without anything
further transpiring about the Princess. As the autumn advanced his thoughts recurred to past
times, and even the sound of the fuller's hammer, which he had listened to in the home of Yûgao,
came back to his mental ear; and these reveries again brought him to the recollection of the
Princess Hitachi, and now once more he began to urge Tayû to contrive a meeting.

It would seem that there was no difficulty for Tayû to bring the matter about, but at the same
time no one knew better than herself that the natural gifts and culture of the Princess were
far from coming up to Genji's standard. She thought, however, that it would matter very little
if he did not care for her, but if, on the other hand, he did so, he was quite free to come
and see her without any interference. For this reason she at last made up her mind to bring
them together, and she gave several hints to the Princess.

Now it so happened towards the end of August that Tayû was on one occasion engaged in conversing
with the Princess. The evening was as yet moonless, the stars alone twinkled in the heavens,
and the gentle winds blew plaintively over the tall trees around the mansion. The conversation
gradually led to times gone by, and the Princess was rendered sad by the contrast of her present
circumstances with those of her father's time. "This is a good opportunity," thought Tayû,
and she sent, it seems, a message to Genji, who soon hastened to the mansion with his usual
alacrity. At the moment when he arrived on the scene the long-looked-for moon had just made
her appearance over the tops of a distant mountain, and as he looked along the wildly growing
hedges around the residence, he heard the sound of the koto, which was being played by the
Princess at Tayû's request. It sounded a little too old-fashioned, but that was of no consequence
to the eager ears of the Prince. He soon made his way to the entrance, and requested a domestic
to announce him to Tayû.

When the latter heard of this she affected great surprise, and said to the Princess, "The Prince
has come. How annoying! He has often been displeased because I have not yet introduced him
to you. I have often told him that you do not particularly like it, and therefore I cannot
think what makes him come here. I had better see him and send him away, but what shall I say.
We cannot treat him like an ordinary person. I am really puzzled what to do. Will you not let
me ask you if you will see him for a few minutes, then all matters will end satisfactorily?"

"But I am not used to receive people," said the Princess, blushing. "How simple minded!" rejoined
Tayû, coaxingly, "I am sorry for that, for the bashfulness of young ladies who are under the
care of their parents may sometimes be even desirable, but how then is that parallel with your
case? Besides, I do not see any good in a friendless maiden refusing the offer of a good acquaintance."

"Well, if you really insist upon it," said the Princess, "perhaps I will; but don't expose
me too much to the gaze of a stranger."

Having thus cunningly persuaded the Princess, Tayû set the reception-room in order, into which
Genji was soon shown. The Princess was all the while experiencing much nervousness, and as
she did not know exactly how to manage, she left everything to Tayû, and was led by her to
the room to receive her visitor. The room was arranged in such a way that the Princess had
her back to the light so that her face and emotions could be obscured.

The perfume which she used was rich, still preserving the trait of high birth, but her demeanor
was timid, and her deportment awkward.

Genji at once noticed this. "Just as I imagined. She is so simple," thought he, and then he
commenced to talk with her, and to explain how passionately he had desired to see her. She,
however, listened to him almost in silence, and gave no plain answer. Genji was disconcerted,
and at last said,

    "From you I sought so oft reply,
      But you to give one would not deign,
    If you discard me, speak, and I
      Will cease to trouble you again."

The governess of the Princess, Kojijiû by name, who was present, was a sagacious woman, and
noticing the embarrassment of the lady, she advanced to her side, and made the following reply
in such a well-timed manner that her real object, which was to conceal the deficiencies of
her mistress, did not betray itself--

    "Not by the ringing of a bell,
      Your words we wish to stay;
    But simply, she has nought to tell,
      And nothing much to say."

"Your eloquence has so struck me that my mouth is almost closed," said Genji, smiling--

    "Not speaking is a wiser part,
      And words are sometimes vain,
    But to completely close the heart
      In silence, gives me pain."

He then tried to speak of this thing and that indifferently, but all hopes of agreeable responsiveness
on the lady's part being vain, he coolly took his leave, and left the mansion, much disappointed.

This evening he slept in his mansion at Nijiô. The next morning Tô-no-Chiûjiô appeared before
he had risen.

"How late, how late!" he cried, in a peculiar tone. "Were you fatigued last night, eh?"

Genji rose and presently came out, saying, "I have overslept myself, that is all; nothing to
disturb me. But have you come from the palace? Was it your official watch-night?"[65]

"Yes," replied Tô-no-Chiûjiô, "and I must inform you that the dancers and musicians for the
fête in Suzak-in are to be nominated to-day. I came from the palace to report this to my father,
so I must now go home, but I will soon return to you."

"I will go with you," said Genji, "but let us breakfast before we start."

Breakfast was accordingly brought, of which they partook. Two carriages, Genji's and Tô-no-Chiûjiô's,
were driven to the door, but Tô-no-Chiûjiô invited the Prince to take a seat with him. Genji
complied, and they drove off. Going along Tô-no-Chiûjiô observed with an envious tone in his
voice, "You look very sleepy;" to which Genji returned an indifferent reply. From the house
of Sadaijin they proceeded to the Imperial Palace to attend the selection of the dancers and
musicians. Thence Genji drove with his father-in-law to the mansion of the latter.

Here in the excitement of the coming fête were assembled several young nobles, in addition
to Genji himself. Some practised dancing, others music, the sound of which echoed everywhere
around. A large hichiriki and a shakuhachi (two kinds of flute) were blown with the utmost
vigor. Even large drums were rolled upon a balcony and beaten with a will.

During the following days, therefore, Genji was so busily engaged that no thought came across
his mind of revisiting the Princess Hitachi. Tayû certainly came now and then, and strove to
induce him to pay the Princess another visit, but he made an excuse on the pretext of being
so much occupied.

It was not until the fête was over that one evening he resolved to pay a visit there. He did
not, however, announce his intention openly, but went there in strict secrecy, making his way
to the house unobserved, as there was no one about.

On his arrival he went up to the latticed window and peeped through. The curtains were old
and half worn out, yet were still left to hang in the once pretty and decorated chamber. There
were a few domestic maidens there partaking of supper. The table and service seemed to be old
Chinese, but everything else betrayed a scantiness of furniture.

In the further room where the mistress was probably dining, an old waitress was passing in
and out, wearing a peculiar white dress rather faded in appearance, and an awkward-looking
comb in her hair, after the old-fashioned style of those formerly in the service of the aristocratic
class, of whom a few might still be retained in a family.

"Ah," thought Genji, smiling, "we might see this kind of thing in the college of ceremonies."
One of the maids happened to say, "This poor cold place! when one's life is too long, such
fate comes to us." Another answered her, "How was it we did not like the mansion when the late
Prince was living?"

Thus they talked about one thing or another connected with their mistress's want of means.

Genji did not like that they should know that he had seen and heard all this, so he slyly withdrew
some distance, and then advancing with a firm step, approached the door and knocked.

"Some one is come," cried a servant, who then brought a light, opened the door, and showed
him into a room where he was soon joined by the Princess, neither Tayû nor Kojijiû being there
on this occasion. The latter was acquainted with the Saiin (the sacred virgin at the Temple
of Kamo),[66] and often spent some time with her. On this occasion she happened to be visiting
her, a circumstance which was not very convenient for the Princess. The dilapidated state of
the mansion was just as novel to Genji as that which he had seen in the lodge of Yûgao, but
the great drawback consisted in the Princess's want of responsiveness. He spoke much, she but
little. Outside, in the meantime, the weather had become boisterous and snow fell thickly,
while within in the room where they sat the lamp burned dimly, no one waiting there even to
trim the light.

Some hours were spent between them, and then Genji rose, and throwing up the shutter in the
same way as he did in the lodge of Yûgao, looked upon the snow which had fallen in the garden.
The ground was covered with a sheet of pure whiteness; no footstep had left its trace, betraying
the fact that few persons came to the mansion. He was about to take his departure, but some
vague impulse arrested him. Turning to the Princess, he asked her to come near him, and to
look out on the scene, and she somewhat unreadily complied.

The evening was far advanced, but the reflection of the snow threw a faint light over all.
Now, for the first time, he discovered the imperfections of the personal attractions of the
Princess. First, her stature was very tall, the upper part of her figure being out of proportion
to the lower, then one thing which startled him most was her nose. It reminded him of the elephant
of Fugen. It was high and long; while its peak, a little drooping, was tinged with pink. To
the refined eyes of Genji this was a sad defect. Moreover, she was thin, too thin; and her
shoulders drooped too much, as if the dress was too heavy for them.

"Why am I so anxious to examine and criticise?" thought Genji, but his curiosity impelled him
to continue his examination. Her hair and the shape of her head were good, in no way inferior
to those of others he liked so well. Her complexion was fair, and her forehead well developed.
The train of her dress, which hung down gracefully, seemed about a foot too long. If I described
everything which she wore I should become loquacious, but in old stories the dress of the personages
is very often more minutely described than anything else; so I must, I suppose, do the same.
Her vest and skirt dress were double, and were of light green silk, a little worn, over which
was a robe of dark color. Over all this she wore a mantle of sable of good quality, only a
little too antique in fashion. To all these things, therefore, he felt no strong objection;
but the two things he could not pass unnoticed were her nose, and her style of movement. She
moved in a stiff and constrained manner, like a master of the ceremonies in some Court procession,
spreading out his arms and looking important. This afforded him amusement, but still he felt
for her. "If I say too much, pardon me," said Genji, "but you seem apparently friendless. I
should advise you to take interest in one with whom you have made acquaintance. He will sympathize
with you. You are much too reserved. Why are you so?

    The icicle hangs at the gable end,
      But melts when the sun is high,
    Why does your heart not to me unbend,
      And warm to my melting sigh."

A smile passed over the lips of the Princess, but they seemed too stiff to reply in a similar
strain. She said nothing.

The time had now come for Genji to depart. His carriage was drawn up to the middle gate, which,
like everything else that belonged to the mansion, was in a state of dilapidation. "The spot
overgrown with wild vegetation, spoken of by Sama-no-Kami might be such as this," he thought.
"If one can find a real beauty of elevated character and obtain her, how delightful would it
not be! The spot answers the description, but the girl does not quite equal the idea; however,
I really pity her, and will look after her. She is a fortunate girl, for if I were not such
a one as I am, I should have little sympathy for the unfortunate and unfavored. But this is
not what I shall do."

He saw an orange tree in the garden covered with snow. He bade his servant shake it free. A
pine tree which stood close by suddenly jerked its branches as if in emulation of its neighbor,
and threw off its load of snow like a wave. The gate through which he had to drive out was
not yet opened. The gatekeeper was summoned to open it. Thereupon an aged man came forth from
his lodge. A miserable-looking girl with a pinched countenance stood by, his daughter or his
granddaughter, whose dress looked poorer from the whiteness of the surrounding snow. She had
something containing lighted charcoal which she held to her breast for warmth.

When she observed that her aged parent could scarcely push back the gate, she came forward
and helped him. And the scene was quite droll. Genji's servant also approached them, and the
gates were thrown open.

Again Genji hummed:--

    "The one who on the time-bent head of age,
      Beholds the gathered snow,
    Nor less his tears of grief may shed,
      For griefs that youth can only know."

and added, "Youth with its body uncovered."[67] Then the pitiable image of one with a tinged
flower[68] on her face presented itself once more to his thoughts and made him smile.

"If Tô-no-Chiûjiô observed this, what would he not have to say?" thought he, as he drove back
slowly to his mansion.

After this time communications were frequently sent from Genji to the Princess. This he did
because he pitied the helpless condition and circumstances he had witnessed more than for any
other reason. He also sent her rolls of silk, which might replace the old-fashioned sable-skins,
some damask, calico and the like. Indeed, presents were made even to her aged servants and
to the gatekeeper.

In ordinary circumstances with women, particular attention such as this might make a blush,
but the Princess did not take it in such a serious light, nor did Genji do this from any other
motive than kindness.

The year approached its end! He was in his apartment in the Imperial Palace, when one morning
Tayû came in. She was very useful to him in small services, such as hairdressing, so she had
easy access to him, and thus she came to him this morning.

"I have something strange to tell you, but it is somewhat trying for me to do so," she said,
half smiling.

"What can it be? There can be nothing to conceal from me!"

"But I have some reason for my hesitation to reveal it," replied Tayû.

"You make a difficulty, as usual," rejoined Genji.

"This is from the Princess," she said, taking a letter from her pocket and presenting it.

"Is this a thing of all others that you ought to conceal," cried Genji, taking the letter and
opening it. It was written on thick and coarse paper of Michinok manufacture. The verse it
contained ran as follows:--

    "Like this, my sleeves are worn away,
    By weeping at your long delay."

These words puzzled Genji. Inclining his head in a contemplative way, he glanced from the paper
to Tayû, and from Tayû to the paper. Then she drew forth a substantial case of antique pattern,
saying, "I cannot produce such a thing without shame, but the Princess expressly sent this
for your New Year. I could not return it to her nor keep it myself; I hope you will just look
at it."

"Oh, certainly," replied Genji. "It is very kind of her," at the same time thinking, "What
a pitiful verse! This may really be her own composition. No doubt Kojijiû has been absent,
besides she seems to have had no master to improve her penmanship. This must have been written
with great effort. We ought to be grateful for it, as they say." Here a smile rose on Genji's
cheeks, and a blush upon Tayû's. The case was opened, and a Naoshi (a kind of gown), of scarlet,
shabby and old-fashioned, of the same color on both sides, was found inside. The sight was
almost too much for Genji from its very absurdity. He stretched out the paper on which the
verse had been written, and began to write on one side, as if he was merely playing with the
pen. Tayû, glancing slyly, found that he had written:--

    This color pleases not mine eye,
      Too fiery bright its gaudy hue,
    And when the saffron flower was nigh,
      The same pink tinge was plain to view.

He then erased what he had written, but Tayû quickly understood what he really meant by "saffron
flower," referring to the pinkness of its flower, so she remarked:--

    "Although the dress too bright in hue,
      And scarlet tints may please you not,
    At least to her, who sends, be true,
      Soon will Naoshi be forgot."

While they were thus prattling on the matter, people were entering the room to see him, so
Genji hastily put the things aside, and Tayû retired.

A few days after, Genji one morning looked into the Daihan-sho (large parlor), where he found
Tayû, and threw a letter to her, saying, "Tayû, here is the answer. It has cost me some pains,"
and then passed through, humming as he went, with a peculiar smile,

    "Like that scarlet-tinged plum."

None but Tayû understood the real allusion. One of the women observed, "The weather is too
frosty, perhaps he has seen some one reddened by the frost." Another said, "What an absurdity!
There is no one among us of that hue, but perhaps Sakon or Unemé may be like this," and thus
they chattered on till the matter dropped.

The letter was soon sent by Tayû to the Princess, who assembled all her attendants round her,
and they all read it together, when the following was found in it:--

    Of my rare visits you complain,
      But can the meaning be,
    Pray come not often, nor again,
      For I am tired of thee.

On the last day of the year he made the following presents to the Princess, sending them in
the same case as the Naoshi had been sent to him: stuff for a complete dress, which had originally
been presented to himself; also rolls of silk, one of the color of the purple grape, another
of the Kerria japonica color, and others. All these were handed to the Princess by Tayû. It
should be observed that these presents were made by Genji to the Princess chiefly on account
of her reduced circumstances. Her attendants, however, who wished to flatter their mistress,
exclaimed, "Our scarlet dress was very good, too. Scarlet is a color which never fades. The
lines we sent were also excellent. Those of the Prince are, no doubt, a little amusing, but
nothing more."

The Princess, flattered by the remarks, wrote down her verse in her album, as if worthy of
preservation.

The New Year began with the morrow; and it was announced that the Otoko-dôka (gentlemen's singing
dances) would soon take place in which Genji would take part. Hence he was busy in going backwards
and forwards, to practise, but the lonely residence of the saffron flower began to draw his
thoughts in that direction. So after the ceremony of the State Festival, on the seventh day,
he betook himself there in the evening, after he had left the Emperor's presence, having made
a pretence of retiring to his own private apartments. On this occasion the appearance of the
lady happened to be a little more attractive, and Genji was pleased, thinking there might be
a time when she would improve still more. When the sun shone forth he rose to leave. He opened
the casement on the western side of the mansion, and, looking at the corridor, perceived that
its roof was broken. Through it the sunshine peeped, and shone upon the slight cover of snow
scattered in the crevices. The scene, as we have before said, betrayed everywhere dilapidation
and decay.

The mirror-stand, combs, and dressing-case were brought in by an attendant. They were all of
an extremely antique pattern. He drew an "arm-stool" near him, and resting himself upon it
began combing his hair. He was amused at the sight of these articles, which were doubtless
a legacy from her parents. The dress of the Princess was in every way nicer. It had been made
out of the silk of Genji's present. He recognized it by the tasteful pattern. Turning to her
he said, "This year you might become a little more genial, the only thing I wait for above
all is a change in your demeanor." To which she, with some awkwardness, said,

     "In the spring, when numerous birds sing."

Such poetic responses were a great delight to Genji, who thought they were the silent touches
of time, and that she had made some improvement. He then left and returned to his mansion in
Nijiô, where he saw the young Violet innocently amusing herself. She wore with grace a long
close-fitting cherry-colored dress of plain silk. She had not yet blackened her teeth,[69]
but he now made her do so, which gave a pleasant contrast to her eyebrows. He played at their
usual games at toys with her, trying in every way to please her. She drew pictures and painted
them, so did he also. He drew the likeness of a lady with long hair, and painted her nose with
pink. Even in caricature it was odd to see. He turned his head to a mirror in which he saw
his own image reflected in great serenity. He then took the brush and painted his own nose
pink. Violet, on seeing this, screamed.

"When I become ornamented in this way what shall I be like?" inquired Genji.

"That would be a great pity. Do wipe it off, it might stain," she replied.

Genji partly wiped it off, saying, "Need I wipe it off any more? Suppose I go with this to
the Palace?"

On this Violet approached and carefully wiped it for him. "Don't put any more color," cried
Genji, "and play upon me as Heijiû."[70]

The mild sun of spring descended in the west, and darkness slowly gathered over the forest
tops, obscuring all but the lovely white plum blossoms which were still visible amidst the
gloom. At the front of the porch, also, a red plum blossom, which usually opens very early,
was deeply tinged with glowing hues. Genji murmured:--

    "The 'red-tinged flower' is far from fair,
      Nor do my eyes delight to see,
    But yon red plum which blossoms there,
      Is full of loveliness to me."

What will become of all these personages!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 65: Young nobles spent a night in the palace in turns, to attend to any unexpected
official business.]

[Footnote 66: When a new emperor succeeded, two virgins, chosen from the royal princesses,
were sent--one to the Shintô temple at Ise, the other to the same temple at Kamo--to become
vestals, and superintend the services.]

[Footnote 67: From a Chinese poem about poor people "night advancing, snow and hail fly white
around. Youth with its body uncovered, and the aged with chilly pain, grief and cold come together,
and make them both sob."]

[Footnote 68: A play upon the word "hana," which means a nose, as well as a flower.]

[Footnote 69: An old custom in Japan for girls when married, or even betrothed, is to blacken
their teeth. This custom, however, is rapidly disappearing.]

[Footnote 70: In an old tale it is stated that this man had a sweetheart. He often pretended
to be weeping, and made his eyes moist by using the water which he kept in his bottle for mixing
ink, in order to deceive her. She discovered this ruse; so one day she put ink into it secretly.
He damped his eyes as usual, when, giving him a hand mirror, she hummed, "You may show me your
tears, but don't show your blackened face to strangers."]

CHAPTER VII

MAPLE FÊTE

The Royal visit to the Suzak-in was arranged to take place towards the middle of October, and
was anticipated to be a grand affair. Ladies were not expected to take part in it, and they
all regretted their not being able to be present.

The Emperor, therefore, wished to let his favorite, the Princess Wistaria, above others, have
an opportunity of witnessing a rehearsal that would represent the coming fête, and ordered
a preliminary concert to be performed at the Court, in which Genji danced the "Blue Main Waves,"
with Tô-no-Chiûjiô for his partner. They stood and danced together, forming a most pleasing
contrast--one, so to speak, like a bright flower; the other, an everlasting verdure beside
it. The rays of the setting sun shone over their heads, and the tones of the music rose higher
and higher in measure to their steps. The movements both of hand and foot were eminently graceful;
as well, also, was the song of Genji, which was sung at the end of his dance, so that some
of the people remarked that the sound of the holy bird, Kariôbinga,[71] might be even like
this. And so the rehearsal ended.

When the day of the fête came, all the Royal Princes, including the Heir-apparent, and all
personages of State, were present at the scene. On the lake, "the music boat," filled with
selected musicians, floated about, as usual on such occasions; and in the grounds, the bands,
which were divided into two divisions on the right and left, under the direction of two Ministers
and two Yemon-no-Kami, played. With this music different dances, including Chinese and Corean,
were performed, one after another, by various dancers. As the performance went on, the high
winds rustled against the tall fir-trees, as though Divine strains of music had broken forth
on high in harmony with them. The tune of the bands became quick and thrilling, as different
colored leaves whirled about overhead.

Then, at length, the hero of the "Blue Main Waves" made his appearance, to the delight of the
suddenly startled spectators, from the midst of a knoll in the grounds, covered with maple
leaves. The twigs of maple which crowned his head, became thinned as he danced, and a Sadaishiô,
plucking a bunch of chrysanthemums from in front of the Royal stand, replaced the lessened
maple leaves. The sun was by this time descending, and the sky had become less glaring, while
the face of Nature seemed as if it were smiling on the scene. Genji danced with unusual skill
and energy. All the pages and attendants, who were severally stationed here under the side
of the rock, there under the shade of the foliage, were quite impressed with the effects of
the performance.

After Genji, a little prince, the child of the Niogo of Jiôkiô-den, danced the "Autumn Gales,"
with a success next to that of Genji. Then, the principal interest of the day being over, as
these dances were finished, the fête ended. This very evening Genji was invested with the title
of Shôsammi, and Tô-no-Chiûjiô with that of Shôshii. Many other persons also received promotion
in rank according to their merits.

It was after this fête that the young Violet was taken into the mansion of Genji at Nijiô,
and she lived with him. The more care he took of her the more amiable she became, while nothing
pleased him more than teaching her to read and write.

The full extent of her mourning for her grandmother was three months, as it is for the maternal
side; and on the last day of December her dress was changed. As she, however, had been always
brought up under the care of her grandmother, her indebtedness to the latter was not to be
held lightly; consequently any bright colors were not advisable for her, so she wore plain
scarlet, mauve, and light yellow, without trimmings or ornament on them.

The dawn ushered in the New Year's day. Genji was about to leave his mansion to attend the
New Year's levée. Just before starting, he came into Violet's room to see her.

"How are you? Are you becoming less childish now?" said he, with a smile to the girl who was
playing with her Hina (toys).

"I am trying to mend this. Inuki damaged it when he was playing what he called 'driving out
devils,'"[72] replied the girl.

"What carelessness! I will soon get it mended for you. Don't cry this day, please," said Genji,
and he went off, the maidens who attended on Violet accompanying him to the door. This example
was also followed by Violet herself.

She went back again to her toys, and presented a toy prince, whom she called Genji, at the
Court of her toy house. Shiônagon was beside her. She said:--

"You might really be a little more womanly, as the Prince told you. How very childish! a girl
older than ten always playing with toys!"

Violet said nothing; but she seemed, for the first time, to have become aware that she was
expected to be a woman in the course of time.

From the Court, Genji went to the mansion of Sadaijin. Lady Aoi was as cool to him as ever.
His persuasive eloquence availed him but little. She was older than Genji by four years, and
was as cold and stately in her mien as ever. Her father, however, received him joyfully whenever
he called, although he was not always satisfied with the capriciousness of his son-in-law.

The next morning Genji rose early, and was arranging his toilet, with a view of making his
New Year's visits, when Sadaijin entered the room, and officiously assisted him in putting
on his dress, except, perhaps, his boots. He, moreover, had brought him a belt mounted with
rare jewels, and requested him to wear it.

Genji observed: "Such a belt is more suited for some special occasion--such as a Royal banquet,
or the like." But Sadaijin insisted on his putting it on, telling him that for that sort of
occasion he possessed a much more valuable one.

These New Year's visits were only paid to the Emperor, to the Heir-apparent, and to the Princess
Wistaria at her private residence in Sanjiô, where she had retired, but she did not receive
him personally. At this time, the Princess was not in her usual state of health, for she was
approaching her confinement. Many people, who thought that they might have heard of the event
in December, now began to say, "At least we shall receive the intelligence this month," and
the Emperor himself became impatient; but the month passed away, and yet it did not happen.
In the middle of February, however, she was safely delivered of a Prince. During the following
April the child was presented to the Emperor.[73] He was rather big for his age, and had already
begun to notice those around him.

In these days much of Genji's time was passed at Nijiô with Violet, and Lady Aoi was still
greatly neglected. The circumstances which induced him to stay at home more than ever were
these: He would order his carriage to be brought in readiness to take him; but, before it was
ready, he would proceed to the western wing, where Violet lived. Perhaps, with eyes drowsy
after dozing, and playing on a flute as he went, he would find her moping on one side of the
room, like a fair flower moistened with dews. He would then approach her side, and say, "How
are you? Are you not well?" She, without being startled, would slowly open her eyes, and murmur:
"Sad like the weed in a creek," and then put her hand on her mouth deprecatingly. On this he
would remark, "How knowing you are! Where did you learn such things?" He would then call for
a koto, and saying "The worst of the soh-koto is that its middle chord should break so easily,"
would arrange it for a Hiôjiô tune, and when he had struck a few chords on it, would offer
it to her, asking her to play, and would presently accompany her with his flute. They would
then play some difficult air, perhaps Hosoroguseri, a very ugly name, but a very lively tune,
and she would keep very good time, and display her skill. The lamp would be presently brought
in, and they would look over some pictures together. In due time, the carriage would be announced.
Perhaps it might be added, "It is coming on to rain." Upon hearing this, she would, perhaps,
put her pictures aside, and become downcast. He would then smooth her wavy hair, and say, "Are
you sorry when I am not here?" To this question she would indicate her feelings by slightly
nodding an affirmative, and she would lean on his knee and begin to doze.

He would then say, "I shall not go out to-night." The servant having brought in supper, would
tell her that Genji was not going out that evening. Then she would manifest the greatest delight,
and would partake of the supper. And thus it came to pass that he often disappointed one who
was expecting him.

The way that Genji neglected his bride gradually became known to the public--nay, to the Emperor
himself, who sometimes admonished him, telling him that his father-in-law always took great
interest in him and great care from his earliest childhood, and saying that he hoped that he
would surely not forget all these benefits, and that it was strange to be unkind to his daughter.
But when these remarks were made to Genji, he answered nothing.

Let us now change our subject. The Emperor, though he had already passed the meridian of life,
was still fond of the society of the fair sex. And his Court was full of ladies who were well
versed in the ways of the world. Some of these would occasionally amuse themselves by paying
attentions to Genji. We will here relate the following amusing incident:--

There was at the Court a Naishi-no-Ske, who was already no longer young, and commonly called
Gen-Naishi-no-Ske. Both her family and character were good. She was, however, in spite of her
age, still coquettish, which was her only fault. Genji often felt amused at her being so young
in temperament, and he enjoyed occasionally talking nonsense with her. She used to attend on
the Emperor while his hair was being dressed. One day, after he had retired into his dressing-room,
she remained in the other room, and was smoothing her own hair. Genji happened to pass by.
He stole unperceived into the room, and slyly tugged the skirt of her robe. She started, and
instinctively half concealed her face with an old-fashioned fan, and looked back at Genji with
an arch glance in her sunken eyes. "What an unsuitable fan for you!" exclaimed Genji, and took
it from her hand. It was made of reddish paper, apparently long in use, and upon it an ancient
forest had been thickly painted. In a corner was written, in antique style, the following words:--

    "On grasses old, 'neath forest trees,
      No steed will browse or swain delay,
    However real that grass may be,
      'Tis neither good for food nor play."

Genji was highly amused. "There are many things one might write on fans," thought he; "what
made her think of writing such odd lines as these?"

"Ah!" said Genji, "I see, 'its summer shade is still thick though!'"[74]

While he was joking he felt something like nervousness in thinking what people might say if
anyone happened to see him flirting with such an elderly lady. She, on her side, had no such
fear. She replied--

    "If beneath that forest tree,
    The steed should come or swain should be,
    Where that ancient forest grows,
    Is grass for food, and sweet repose."

"What?" retorted Genji,

    "If my steed should venture near,
    Perhaps he'd find a rival there,
    Some one's steed full well, I ween,
    Rejoices in these pastures green."

And quitted the room.

The Emperor, who had been peeping unobserved into it, after he had finished his toilet, laughed
heartily to himself at the scene.

Tô-no-Chiûjiô was somehow informed of Genji's fun with this lady, and became anxious to discover
how far he meant to carry on the joke. He therefore sought her acquaintance. Genji knew nothing
of this. It happened on a cool summer evening that Genji was sauntering round the Ummeiden
in the palace yard. He heard the sound of a biwa (mandolin) proceeding from a veranda. It was
played by this lady. She performed well upon it, for she was often accustomed to play it before
the Emperor along with male musicians. It sounded very charming. She was also singing to it
the "Melon grower."

"Ah!" thought Genji, "the singing woman in Gakshoo, whom the poet spoke of, may have been like
this one," and he stood still and listened. Slowly he approached near the veranda, humming
slowly, as he went, "Adzmaya," which she soon noticed, and took up the song, "Do open and come
in! but

    I do not believe you're in the rain,
    Nor that you really wish to come in."

Genji at once responded,

    "Whose love you may be I know not,
    But I'll not stand outside your cot,"

and was going away, when he suddenly thought, "This is too abrupt!" and coming back, he entered
the apartment.

How great was the joy of Tô-no-Chiûjiô, who had followed Genji unperceived by him, when he
saw this. He contrived a plan to frighten him, so he reconnoitred in order to find some favorable
opportunity.

The evening breeze blew chill, and Genji it appears was becoming very indifferent. Choosing
this moment Tô-no-Chiûjiô slyly stepped forth to the spot where Genji was resting.

Genji soon noticed his footsteps, but he never imagined that it was his brother-in-law. He
thought it was Suri-no-Kami, a great friend of the lady. He did not wish to be seen by this
man. He reproached her for knowing that he was expected, but that she did not give him any
hint. Carrying his Naoshi on his arm, he hid himself behind a folding screen. Tô-no-Chiûjiô,
suppressing a laugh, advanced to the side of the screen, and began to fold it from one end
to the other, making a crashing noise as he did so. The lady was in a dilemma, and stood aloof.
Genji would fain have run out, and concealed himself elsewhere, but he could not get on his
Naoshi, and his head-dress was all awry. The Chiûjiô spoke not a word lest he should betray
himself, but making a pretended angry expostulation, he drew his sword. All at once the lady
threw herself at his feet, crying, "My lord! my lord!" Tô-no-Chiûjiô could scarcely constrain
himself from laughing. She was a woman of about fifty seven, but her excitement was more like
that of a girl of twenty.

Genji gradually perceived that the man's rage was only simulated, and soon became aware who
it was that was there; so he suddenly rushed out, and catching hold of Tô-no-Chiûjiô's sword-arm,
pinched it severely. Tô-no-Chiûjiô no longer maintained his disguise, but burst into loud laughter.

"How are you my friend, were you in earnest?" exclaimed Genji, jestingly--"but first let me
put on my Naoshi." But Tô-no-Chiûjiô caught it, and tried to prevent him putting it on.

"Then I will have yours," cried Genji, seizing the end of Tô-no-Chiûjiô's sash, and beginning
to unfasten it, while the latter resisted. Then they both began to struggle, and their Naoshi
soon began to tear.

"Ah," cried Tô-no-Chiûjiô,

     "Like the Naoshi to the eye,
     Your secrets all discovered lie."

"Well," replied Genji,

     "This secret if so well you know,
     Why am I now disturbed by you?"

And they both quitted the room without much noticing the state of their garments.

Tô-no-Chiûjiô proceeded to his official chamber, and Genji to his own apartment. The sash and
other things which they had left behind them were soon afterwards sent to Genji by the lady.

The sash was that of Tô-no-Chiûjiô. Its color was somewhat deeper than his own, and while he
was looking at this, he suddenly noticed that one end of a sleeve of his own Naoshi was wanting.
"Tô-no-Chiûjiô, I suppose, has carried it off, but I have him also, for here is his sash!"
A page boy from Tô-no-Chiûjiô's office hereupon entered, carrying a packet in which the missing
sleeve was wrapped, and a message advising Genji to get it mended before all things. "Fancy
if I had not got this sash?" thought Genji, as he made the boy take it back to his master in
return.

In the morning they were in attendance at Court. They were both serious and solemn in demeanor,
as it happened to be a day when there was more official business than on other days; Tô-no-Chiûjiô
(who being chief of the Kurand, which office has to receive and despatch official documents)
was especially much occupied. Nevertheless they were amused themselves at seeing each other's
solemn gravity.

In an interval, when free from duty, Tô-no-Chiûjiô came up to Genji and said, with envious
eyes, "Have you not been a little scared in your private expedition?" when Genji replied, "No,
why so? there was nothing serious in it; but I do sympathize with one who took so much useless
trouble."

They then cautioned each other to be discreet about the matter, which became afterwards a subject
for laughter between them.

Now even some Royal Princes would give way to Genji, on account of his father's favor towards
him, but Tô-no-Chiûjiô, on the contrary, was always prepared to dispute with him on any subject,
and did not yield to him in any way. He was the only brother of the Lady Aoi by the same Royal
mother, with an influential State personage for their father, and in his eyes there did not
seem to be much difference between himself and Genji.

The incidents of the rivalry between them, therefore, were often very amusing, though we cannot
relate them all.

In the month of July the Princess Wistaria was proclaimed Empress. This was done because the
Emperor had a notion of abdication in favor of the Heir-apparent and of making the son of the
Princess Wistaria the Heir-apparent to the new Emperor, but there was no appropriate guardian
or supporter, and all relations on the mother's side were of the Royal blood, and thereby disqualified
from taking any active part in political affairs.

For this reason the Emperor wished to make the position of the mother firmer.

The mother of the Heir-apparent, whom this arrangement left still a simple Niogo, was naturally
hurt and uneasy at another being proclaimed Empress. Indeed she was the mother of the Heir-apparent,
and had been so for more than twenty years. And the public remarked that it was a severe trial
for her to be thus superseded by another.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 71: Kalavinka, the beautifully singing holy birds in Paradise, to whose singing the
voice of Buddha is compared.]

[Footnote 72: On New Year's Eve, in Japan, some people fry peas, and throw them about the rooms,
saying, "Avaunt, Devil, avaunt! Come in happiness!" This is called driving out devils.]

[Footnote 73: An infant born to the Emperor is presented to him only when it has attained the
age of some months.]

[Footnote 74: From an old poem,

    "The shade of Ôaraki forest is thick:
    The summer has come there, the summer has come!"

This is a mere metaphorical pun referring to her still being lively in spite of age.]

CHAPTER VIII

FLOWER-FEAST

Towards the end of February the cherry flowers at the front of the Southern Palace were coming
into blossom, and a feast was given to celebrate the occasion. The weather was most lovely,
and the merry birds were singing their melody to the charms of the scene. All the Royal Princes,
nobles and literati were assembled, and among them the Emperor made his appearance, accompanied
by the Princess Wistaria (now Empress) on the one side, and the Niogo of Kokiden, the mother
of the Heir-apparent on the other; the latter having constrained herself to take part with
her rival in the fête, in spite of her uneasiness at the recent promotion of that rival.

When all the seats were taken the composing[75] of poems, as was the custom, commenced, and
they began picking up the rhymes. The turn came in due course to Genji, who picked up the word
spring. Next to Genji, Tô-no-Chiûjiô took his.

Many more followed them, including several aged professors, who had often been present on similar
occasions, with faces wrinkled by time, and figures bowed by the weight of years. The movements
and announcements[76] both of Genji and his brother-in-law were elegant and graceful, as might
be expected; but among those who followed there were not a few who showed awkwardness, this
being more the case with scholars of ordinary accomplishments, since this was an epoch when
the Emperor, the Heir-apparent and others of high distinction were more or less accomplished
in these arts.

Meanwhile, they all partook of the feast; the selected musicians joyfully played their parts,
and as the sun was setting, "The Spring-lark Sings" (name of a dance) was danced. This reminded
those present of Genji's dance at the maple fête, and the Heir-apparent pressed him to dance,
at the same moment putting on his head a wreath of flowers. Upon this Genji stood up, and waving
his sleeves, danced a little. Tô-no-Chiûjiô was next requested by the Emperor to do the same
thing, and he danced the "Willow Flower Gardens" most elaborately, and was honored by the Emperor
with a present of a roll of silk. After them, many young nobles danced indiscriminately, one
after another, but we cannot give an opinion about them as the darkness was already gathering
round. Lamps were at length brought, when the reading of the poems took place, and late in
the evening all present dispersed.

The palace grounds now became quite tranquil, and over them the moon shone with her soft light.

Genji, his temper mellowed by saké, was tempted to take a stroll to see what he could see.
He first sauntered round Fuji-Tsubo (the chamber of Wistaria) and came up by the side of the
corridor of Kokiden. He noticed a small private door standing open. It seems that the Niogo
was in her upper chamber at the Emperor's quarters, having gone there after she retired from
the feast. The inner sliding door was also left open, and no human voice was heard from within.

"Such are occasions on which one often compromises one's self," thought he, and yet slowly
approached the entrance. Just at that moment he heard a tender voice coming toward him, humming,
"Nothing so sweet as the oboro[77] moon-night." Genji waited her approach, and caught her by
the sleeve. It made her start. "Who are you?" she exclaimed. "Don't be alarmed," he replied,
and gently led her back to the corridor. He then added, "Let us look out on the moonlight together."
She was, of course, nervous, and would fain have cried out. "Hush," said he; "know that I am
one with whom no one will interfere; be gentle, and let us talk a little while." These words
convinced her that it was Prince Genji, and calmed her fears.

It appears that he had taken more saké than usual, and this made him rather reckless. The girl,
on the other hand, was still very young, but she was witty and pleasantly disposed, and spent
some time in conversing with him.

He did not yet know who she was, and asked, "Can't you let me know your name? Suppose I wish
to write to you hereafter?" But she gave no decided answer; so Genji, after exchanging his
fan with hers, left her and quietly returned to his apartments.

Genji's thoughts were now directed to his new acquaintance. He was convinced that she was one
of the younger sisters of the Niogo. He knew that one of them was married to a Prince, one
of his own relations, and another to his brother-in-law, Tô-no-Chiûjiô. He was perfectly sure
that his new acquaintance was not either of these, and he presumed her to be the fifth or sixth
of them, but was not sure which of these two.

"How can I ascertain this?" he thought. "If I compromise myself, and her father becomes troublesome,
that won't do; but yet I must know."

The fan which he had just acquired was of the color of cherry. On it was a picture representing
the pale moon coming out of a purple cloud, throwing a dim light upon the water.

To Genji this was precious. He wrote on one side the following, and kept it carefully, with
a longing for the chance of making it useful:--

    "The moon I love has left the sky,
      And where 'tis hid I cannot tell;
    I search in vain, in vain I try
      To find the spot where it may dwell."

Now, it so happened that on a certain day at the end of March, an archery meeting was to be
held at Udaijin's, in which numerous noble youths were to be present, and which was to be succeeded
by the Wistaria flower-feast. The height of the flower season was past, but there were two
cherry-trees, besides the Wistaria in the gardens, which blossomed later. A new building in
the ground, which had been decorated for the occasion of the Mogi[78] of the two Princesses,
was being beautifully arranged for this occasion.

Genji also had been told one day at Court by Udaijin that he might join the meeting. When the
day came Genji did not arrive early. Udaijin sent by one of his sons the following haughty
message to Genji, who was at the time with the Emperor:--

     "If the flowers of my home were of every-day hue,
     Why should they so long a time have tarried for you?"

Genji at once showed this to the Emperor, asking whether he had better go. "Ah!" said the latter,
smiling, "This is from a great personage. You had better go, I should think; besides there
are the Princesses there."

Thereupon he prepared to go, and made his appearance late in the afternoon.

The party was very pleasant, although the archery-match was almost finished, and several hours
were spent in different amusements. As twilight fell around, Genji affected to be influenced
by the saké he had taken, left the party, and went to that part of the Palace where the Princesses
lived. The Wistaria flowers in the gardens could also be seen from this spot, and several ladies
were looking out on them.

"I have been too much pressed. Let me take a little quiet shelter here," said Genji, as he
joined them. The room was nicely scented with burning perfume. There he saw his two half-sisters
and some others with whom he was not acquainted. He was certain that the one he wished to ascertain
about was among them, but from the darkness of the advancing evening he was unable to distinguish
her. He adopted a device for doing so. He hummed, as he looked vacantly around, the "Ishi-kawa,"[79]
but instead of the original line, "My belt being taken," artfully, and in an arch tone, substituted
the word "fan" for "belt."

Some were surprised at this change, while others even said, "What a strange Ishi-kawa!" One
only said nothing, but looked down, and thus betrayed herself as the one whom he was seeking,
and Genji was soon at her side.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 75: Composing poems in Chinese was a principal part of the feast. The form of it
is this, a Court scholar selects in obedience to Imperial command, the subject, and then writes
different words on pieces of paper and places them on a table in the gardens, folded up. Two
of these are first picked out for the Emperor, and then each one after another, according to
precedence, goes to the table, takes one, and these words form their rhymes.]

[Footnote 76: It was also the custom, when each had taken his paper, to read it aloud, and
also to announce his particular title or station.]

[Footnote 77: "Oboro" is an adjective meaning calm, and little glaring, and is specially attributed
to the moon in spring. The line is from an old ode.]

[Footnote 78: The ceremony of girls putting on a dress marking the commencement of womanhood,
corresponding to the Gembuk in the case of boys. These princesses were the daughters of the
Niogo of Kokiden. It was the custom that royal children should be brought up at the home of
the mother.]

[Footnote 79: Name of a well-known ballad.]

CHAPTER IX

HOLLYHOCK

The Emperor has at last abdicated his throne, as he has long intended, in favor of the Heir-apparent,
and the only child of the Princess Wistaria is made Heir-apparent to the new Emperor.

The ex-Emperor now lived in a private palace with this Princess in a less royal style; and
the Niogo of Kokiden, to whom was given the honorary title of ex-Empress, resided in the Imperial
Palace with the Emperor, her son, and took up a conspicuous position. The ex-Emperor still
felt some anxiety about the Heir-apparent, and appointed Genji as his guardian, as he had not
yet a suitable person for that office.

This change in the reigning Emperor, and the gradual advancement of Genji's position, gave
the latter greater responsibility, and he had to restrain his wandering.

Now, according to usage, the Saigû[80] and Saiin[81] were selected; for the latter the second
sister of the Emperor was chosen, and for the former the only daughter of the Lady of Rokjiô,
whose husband had been a Royal Prince.

The day of the departure of the Saigû for Ise was not yet fixed; and the mind of her mother,
who had some reasons for dissatisfaction with Genji, was still wavering in her indecision,
whether or not she should go to Ise with her daughter.

The case of the Saiin, however, was different, and the day of her installation was soon fixed.
She was the favorite child of her mother as well as of her father, and the ceremonies for the
day of consecration were arranged with especial splendor. The number of persons who take a
share in the procession on this occasion is defined by regulations; yet the selection of this
number was most carefully made from the most fashionable of the nobles of the time, and their
dresses and saddles were all chosen of beautiful appearance. Genji was also directed by special
order to take part in the ceremony.

As the occasion was expected to be magnificent, every class of the people showed great eagerness
to witness the scene, and a great number of stands were erected all along the road. The day
thus looked forward to at last arrived.

Lady Aoi seldom showed herself on such occasions; besides, she was now in a delicate state
of health, near her confinement, and had, therefore, no inclination to go out. Her attendants,
however, suggested to her that she ought to go. "It is a great pity," they said, "not to see
it; people come from a long distance to see it." Her mother also said, "You seem better to-day.
I think you had better go. Take these girls with you."

Being pressed in this way, she hastily made up her mind, and went with a train of carriages.
All the road was thronged by multitudes of people, many dressed in a style which is called
Tsubo-Shôzok. Many of great age prostrated themselves in an attitude of adoration, and many
others, notwithstanding their natural plainness, looked almost blooming, from the joy expressed
in their countenances--nay, even nuns and aged women, from their retreats, were to be seen
amongst them. Numerous carriages were also squeezed closely together, so that the broad thoroughfare
of the Ichijiô road was made almost spaceless. When, however, the carriages of the Lady Aoi's
party appeared, her attendants ordered several others to make way, and forced a passage to
the spot where the best view could be obtained, and where the common people were not allowed.
Among these happened to be two ajiro[82] carriages, and their inmates were plainly incognito
and persons of rank.

These belonged to the party of the Lady of Rokjiô. When these carriages were forced to give
place, their attendants cried out, "These carriages do not belong to people who ought to be
so abruptly forced away." But the attendants of the Lady Aoi, who were slightly under the influence
of drink, would not listen to their expostulations, and they at last made their way and took
up their position, pushing the other two back where nothing could be seen, even breaking their
poles.

The lady so maltreated was of course extremely indignant, and she would fain have gone home
without seeing the spectacle, but there was no passage for retiring. Meanwhile the approach
of the procession was announced, and only this calmed her a little.

Genji was as usual conspicuous in the procession. There were several carriages along the roads
on whose occupants his glance was cast; that of Lady Aoi, however, was the most striking, and
as he passed by the attendants saluted him courteously, which act Genji acknowledged. What
were the feelings of the Lady of Rokjiô, who had been driven back, at this moment!

In due course the procession passed, and the exciting scene of the day was over. The quarrels
about the carriage naturally came to the ears of Genji. He thought that Lady Aoi was too modest
to be the instigator of such a dispute; but her house was one of great and powerful families
famous for overweening pride, a tendency shared by its domestics; and they, for other motives,
also of rivalry, were glad to have an opportunity of mortifying the Lady of Rokjiô.

He felt for the wounded lady, and hastened to see her; but she, under some pretext, refused
to see him.

The day of the hollyhock fête of the same temple came. It was especially grand, as it was the
first one after the installation of the new Saiin, but neither Lady Aoi or the Lady of Rokjiô
was present, while Genji privately took Violet with him in a close carriage to see the festival,
and saw the horse-races.

We have already mentioned that the mind of the Lady of Rokjiô was still wavering and unsettled
whether or not she should go to Ise with her daughter; and this state of mind became more and
more augmented and serious after the day of the dispute about the carriages, which made her
feel a bitter disdain and jealousy towards the Lady Aoi. Strange to say, that from about the
same time, Lady Aoi became ill, and began to suffer from spiritual influences. All sorts of
exorcisms were duly performed, and some spirits came forth and gave their names. But among
them was a spirit, apparently a "living one,"[83] which obstinately refused to be transmitted
to the third party. It caused her great suffering, and seemed not to be of a casual nature,
but a permanent hostile influence. Some imagined this to be the effect of fearful jealousy
of some one who was intimately known to Genji and who had most influence over him; but the
spirit gave no information to this effect. Hence some even surmised that the wandering spirit
of some aged nurse, or the like, long since dead, still haunted the mansion, and might have
seized the opportunity of the lady's delicate health, and taken possession of her. Meanwhile
at the mansion of Rokjiô, the lady, when she was informed of the sufferings of Lady Aoi, felt
somewhat for her, and began to experience a sort of compassion.

This became stronger when she was told that the sufferings of the Lady Aoi were owing to some
living spirit. She thought that she never wished any evil to her; but, when she reflected,
there were several times when she began to think that a wounded spirit, such as her own, might
have some influence of the kind. She had sometimes dreams, after weary thinking, between slumber
and waking, in which she seemed to fly to some beautiful girl, apparently Lady Aoi, and to
engage in bitter contention and struggle with her. She became even terrified at these dreams;
but yet they took place very often. "Even in ordinary matters," she thought, "it is too common
a practice, to say nothing of the good done by people, but to exaggerate the bad; and so, in
such cases, if it should be rumored that mine was that living spirit which tormented Lady Aoi,
how trying it would be to me! It is no rare occurrence that one's disembodied spirit, after
death, should wander about; but even that is not a very agreeable idea. How much more, then,
must it be disagreeable to have the repute that one's living spirit was inflicting pain upon
another!"

These thoughts still preyed upon her mind, and made her listless and depressed.

In due course, the confinement of Lady Aoi approached. At the same time, the jealous spirit
still vexed her, and now more vigorous exorcising was employed. She became much affected by
it, and cried out, "Please release me a little; I have something to tell the Prince."

Hereupon he was ushered into the room. The curtain was dropped, and the mother of the lady
left the room, as she thought her daughter might prefer to speak to him in private. The sound
of the spells performed in the next chamber ceased, and Hoke-kiô was read in its place. The
lady was lying on her couch, dressed in a pure white garment, with her long tresses unfastened.
He approached her, and taking her hand, said: "What sad affliction you cause us!" She then
lifted her heavy eyelids, and gazed on Genji for some minutes.

He tried to soothe her, and said, "Pray don't trouble yourself too much about matters. Everything
will come right. Your illness, I think, will soon pass away. Even supposing you quit this present
world, there is another where we shall meet, and where I shall see you once more cheerful,
and there will be a time when your mother and father will also join you."

"Ah! no. I only come here to solicit you to give me a little rest. I feel extremely disturbed.
I never thought of coming here in such a way; but it seems the spirit of one whose thoughts
are much disconcerted wanders away unknown even to itself.

    Oh, bind my wandering spirit, pray,
    Dear one, nor let it longer stray."

The enunciation of these words was not that of Lady Aoi herself; and when Genji came to reflect,
it clearly belonged to the Lady of Rokjiô. Always before, when anyone had talked with him about
a living spirit coming to vex Lady Aoi, he felt inclined to suppress such ideas; but now he
began to think that such things might really happen, and he felt disturbed. "You speak thus,"
said Genji, as if he was addressing the spirit, "but you do not tell me who you are. Do, therefore,
tell me clearly." At these words, strange to say, the face of the Lady Aoi seemed momentarily
to assume the likeness of that of Rokjiô. On this, Genji was still more perplexed and anxious,
and put a stop to the colloquy. Presently she became very calm, and people thought that she
was a little relieved. Soon after this, the lady was safely delivered of a child.

Now, to perform due thanksgiving for this happy deliverance, the head of the monastery on Mount
Hiye and some other distinguished priests were sent for. They came in all haste, wiping off
the perspiration from their faces as they journeyed; and, from the Emperor and Royal princes
down to the ordinary nobles, all took an interest in the ceremony of Ub-yashinai (first feeding),
and the more so as the child was a boy.

To return to the Lady of Rokjiô. When she heard of the safe delivery of Lady Aoi, a slightly
jealous feeling once more seemed to vex her; and when she began to move about, she could not
understand how it was, but she perceived that her dress was scented with a strange odor.[84]
She thought this most surprising, and took baths and changed her dress, in order to get rid
of it; but the odor soon returned, and she was disgusted with herself.

Some days passed, and the day of autumn appointments arrived. By this time, Lady Aoi's health
seemed progressing favorably, and Genji left her in order to attend the Court.

When he said good-by to her, there was a strange and unusual look in her eyes. Sadaijin also
went to Court, as well as his sons, who had some expectation of promotion, and there were few
people left in the mansion.

It was in the evening of that day that Lady Aoi was suddenly attacked by a spasm, and before
the news of this could be carried to the Court, she died.

These sad tidings soon reached the Court, and created great distress and confusion: even the
arrangements for appointments and promotion were disturbed. As it happened late in the evening
there was no time to send for the head of the monastery, or any other distinguished priest.
Messengers of inquiry came one after another to the mansion, so numerous that it was almost
impossible to return them all answers. We need not add how greatly affected were all her relations.

As the death took place from a malign spiritual influence, she was left untouched during two
or three days, in the hope that she might revive; but no change took place, and now all hope
was abandoned. In due course the corpse was taken to the cemetery of Toribeno. Numerous mourners
and priests of different churches crowded to the spot, while representatives of the ex-Emperor,
Princess Wistaria, and the Heir-apparent also were present. The ceremony of burial was performed
with all solemnity and pathos.

Thus the modest and virtuous Lady Aoi passed away forever.

Genji forthwith confined himself to his apartment in the grand mansion of Sadaijin, for mourning
and consolation. Tô-no-Chiûjiô, who was now elevated to the title of Sammi, constantly bore
him company, and conversed with him both on serious and amusing subjects. Their struggle in
the apartment of Gen-naishi, and also their rencontre in the garden of the "Saffron Flower,"
were among the topics of their consoling conversation.

It was on one of these occasions that a soft shower of rain was falling. The evening was rendered
cheerless, and Tô-no-Chiûjiô came to see him, walking slowly in his mourning robes of a dull
color. Genji was leaning out of a window, his cheek resting on his hand; and, looking out upon
the half-fading shrubberies, was humming--

    "Has she become rain or cloud?
    'Tis now unknown."

Tô-no-Chiûjiô gently approached him. They had, as usual, some pathetic conversation, and then
the latter hummed, as if to himself--

    "Beyond the cloud in yonder sky,
      From which descends the passing rain,
    Her gentle soul may dwell,
      Though we may cease to trace its form in vain."

This was soon responded to by Genji:--

    "That cloudy shrine we view on high,
      Where my lost love may dwell unseen,
    Looks gloomy now to this sad eye
      That looks with tears on what has been."

There was among the faded plants of the garden a solitary Rindô-nadeshko.[85] When Tô-no-Chiûjiô
had gone, Genji picked this flower, and sent it to his mother-in-law by the nurse of the infant
child, with the following:--

    "In bowers where all beside are dead
      Survives alone this lovely flower,
    Departed autumn's cherished gem,
      Symbol of joy's departed hour."[86]

Genji still felt lonely. He wrote a letter to the Princess Momo-zono (peach-gardens). He had
known her long. He admired her, too. She had been a spectator, with her father, on the day
of the consecration of the Saiin, and was one of those to whom the appearance of Genji was
most welcome. In his letter he stated that she might have a little sympathy with him in his
sorrow, and he also sent with it the following:--

    "Many an autumn have I past
      In gloomy thought, but none I ween
    Has been so mournful as the last,
      Which rife with grief and change hath been."

There was, indeed, nothing serious between Genji and this princess; yet, as far as correspondence
was concerned, they now and then exchanged letters, so she did not object to receiving this
communication. She felt for him much, and an answer was returned, in which she expressed her
sympathy at his bereavement.

Now, in the mansion of Sadaijin every performance of requiem was celebrated. The forty-ninth
day had passed, and the mementoes of the dead, both trifling and valuable, were distributed
in a due and agreeable manner; and Genji at length left the grand mansion with the intention
of first going to the ex-Emperor, and then of returning to his mansion at Nijiô. After his
departure, Sadaijin went into the apartment occupied till lately by him. The room was the same
as before, and everything was unchanged; but his only daughter, the pride of his old days,
was no more, and his son-in-law had gone too.

He looked around him for some moments. He saw some papers lying about. They were those on which
Genji had been practising penmanship for amusement--some in Chinese, others in Japanese; some
in free style, others in stiff. Among these papers he saw one on which the words "Old pillows
and old quilts" were written, and close to these the following:--

    "How much the soul departed, still
      May love to linger round this couch,
    My own heart tells me, even I
      Reluctant am to leave it now."

And on another of these papers, accompanying the words, "The white frost lies upon the tiles,"
the following:--

    "How many more of nights shall I
    On this lone bed without thee lie;
    The flower has left its well-known bed,
    And o'er its place the dews are shed."

As Sadaijin was turning over these papers a withered flower, which seems to have marked some
particular occasion, dropped from amongst them.

Return we now to Genji. He went to the ex-Emperor, to whom he still seemed thin and careworn.
He had some affectionate conversation with him, remained till evening, and then proceeded to
his mansion at Nijiô. He went to the western wing to visit the young Violet. All were habited
in new winter apparel, and looked fresh and blooming.

"How long it seems since I saw you!" he exclaimed. Violet turned her glance a little aside.
She was apparently shy, which only increased her beauty.

He approached, and after having a little conversation, said, "I have many things to say to
you, but now I must have a little rest," and returned to his own quarters.

The next morning, first of all he sent a letter to Sadaijin's, making inquiry after his infant
child.

At this time he confined himself more than usual to his own house, and for companionship he
was constantly with Violet, who was now approaching womanhood. He would sometimes talk with
her differently from the manner in which he would speak to a mere girl; but on her part she
seemed not to notice the difference, and for their daily amusement either Go or Hentski[87]
was resorted to, and sometimes they would play on till late in the evening.

Some weeks thus passed away, and there was one morning when Violet did not appear so early
as usual. The inmates of the house, who did not know what was the reason, were anxious about
her, thinking she was indisposed. About noon Genji came. He entered the little room, saying,
"Are you not quite well? Perhaps you would like to play at Go again, like last night, for a
change;" but she was more than ever shy.

"Why are you so shy?" he exclaimed; "be a little more cheerful--people may think it strange,"
said he, and stayed with her a long time trying to soothe her; but to no effect--she still
continued silent and shy.

This was the evening of Wild Boar's day, and some mochi (pounded rice cake) was presented to
him, according to custom, on a tray of plain white wood.

He called Koremitz before him and said, "To-day is not a very opportune day; I would rather
have them to-morrow evening. Do send in some to-morrow.[88] It need not be of so many colors."
So saying, he smiled a little, and sharp Koremitz soon understood what he meant. And this he
accordingly did on the morrow, on a beautiful flower-waiter.

Up to this time nothing about Violet had been publicly known, and Genji thought it was time
to inform her father about his daughter; but he considered he had better have the ceremony
of Mogi first performed, and ordered preparations to be made with that object.

Let us here notice that the young daughter of Udaijin, after she saw Genji, was longing to
see him again. This inclination was perceived by her relations. It seems that her father was
not quite averse to this liking, and he told his eldest daughter, the reigning Emperor's mother,
that Genji was recently bereaved of his good consort, and that he should not feel discontented
if his daughter were to take the place of Lady Aoi; but this the royal mother did not approve.
"It would be far better for her to be introduced at Court," she said, and began contriving
to bring this about.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 80: The sacred virgin of the temple of Ise.]

[Footnote 81: The same of Kamo, which is situated in the neighborhood of Kiôto, the then capital.]

[Footnote 82: "Ajiro" means woven bamboo, and here it signifies a carriage made of woven bamboo.]

[Footnote 83: Before proceeding with the story, it is necessary for the reader to peruse the
following note: In Japan there existed, and still more or less exists, a certain superstition
which is entertained, that the spirits of the dead have the power of inflicting injury on mankind;
for instance, a woman when slighted or deserted, dies, her spirit often works evil on the man
who forsook her, or on her rival. This is the spirit of the dead. There is also another belief
that the spirits of the living have sometimes the same power, but in this case it only takes
place when one is fiercely jealous. When this spirit works upon the rival, the owner of the
spirit is not aware of it; but she herself becomes more gloomy, as if she had, as it were,
lost her own spirit. These spirits can be exorcised, and the act is performed by a certain
sect of priests; but the living one is considered far more difficult to exorcise than the other,
because it is imagined that the dead spirit can be easily "laid," or driven back to the tomb,
while the living one, being still in its present state, cannot be settled so easily. The method
of exorcism is as follows: Certain spells are used on the sufferer, and certain religious addresses
are read from the Buddhist bibles, and then the sufferer is made to speak out all his subjects
of complaint; but it is supposed not to be the man himself who speaks and tells these causes
of complaint, but the spirit of which he is possessed. This process is sometimes performed
on a third party; in that case the priest temporarily transmits the spirit from the sufferer
to the substitute and makes it speak with his mouth. When he has told all the causes of his
complaint and wrongs, the priest sometimes argues with him, sometimes chides, sometimes soothes,
and sometimes threatens, and at last says to the spirit, "If you do not go out quietly, I will
confine you by my sacred power." By such means the spirit is exorcised; the process resembles
mesmerism in some points, but of course has no sensible foundation. In other cases the spirits
of those who have either recently, or even years before, met with cruel wrongs or death, may
in their wanderings seize upon some person in the vicinity, though totally unconnected with
the crime done upon them, and may cause them suffering, or even spirits, who from any cause,
are unable to obtain rest, may do the same thing.]

[Footnote 84: In the ceremony of exorcism a sacred perfume is burnt, and it was this scent
which the Lady of Rokjiô perceived in her garment because her spirit was supposed to go to
and fro between herself and Lady Aoi, and to bring with it the smell of this perfume.]

[Footnote 85: A kind of pink; some translate it Gentian.]

[Footnote 86: Here the flower is compared to the child, and autumn to the mother.]

[Footnote 87: "Hentski," a children's game. It consists in choosing beforehand a "hen" or half-character,
opening a book and seeing which of the players can most quickly pick out the words beginning
with this "hen."]

[Footnote 88: It seemed to have been the ancient custom, that on the third night of a wedding,
the same kind of rice cake, but only of one color, was served up.]

CHAPTER X

DIVINE TREE

The departure of the Saigû, the daughter of the Lady of Rokjiô, for her destination in the
Temple of Ise, which was postponed from time to time, owing to different circumstances, was
at length arranged to take place in September. This definite arrangement delighted the Saigû,
to whom the uncertainty of the event had been somewhat tiresome. Her mother also made up her
mind to accompany her to the temple. Although there was no precedent for the mother of the
Saigû accompanying her daughter, this lady made up her mind to do so, because she would not
allow her young daughter to go alone.

In a suburban field the "field palace" was built.[89] It was of wood, and surrounded by a fence
of newly cut branches of trees. In front stood a huge torii[90] of logs, and within the compound
were the quarters of the Kandzkasa.[91] Here the Saigû took up her residence, where her mother
also accompanied her. When the sixteenth of September, which was fixed for the departure, arrived,
the ceremony of her last consecration was duly performed on the banks of the River Katzra,
whence the sacred virgin went to the Imperial Palace to have the farewell audience with the
Emperor. She was accompanied by her mother. The father of the latter had been a great personage
of State, and she had been married to a Royal Prince at sixteen, when there had been every
possibility of her coming to the Court in a position far superior to what she now enjoyed.
She was, however, bereaved of him at the age of twenty; and now at thirty she comes to take
leave at her departure for a far-off province with her only daughter. The Saigû was about fourteen
years of age, was extremely delicate and fair to look upon, and when presented to the Emperor
he was struck by the charms of her youthful appearance.

Numerous carriages were ranged at the front of eight State departments to see her off in state,
besides many others along the road, full of spectators.

Late in the afternoon her party left the palace, and turned away from Nijiô round to the highway
of Tôin, and passed by the mansion of Genji, who witnessed their passing, and sent the following
to the lady-mother with a twig of Sakaki (divine tree):--

    "Bravely you quit this scene, 'tis true;
      But though you dauntless fly so far,
    Your sleeve may yet be wet with dew,
      Before you cross Suzukah."[92]

The answer to this was sent to him from beyond the barrier of Ausaka (meeting-path) in the
following form:--

    "Whether my sleeve be wet or not,
      In the waters of the Suzukah,
    Who will care? Too soon forgot
      Will Ise be that lies so far."

And thus the Lady of Rokjiô and her daughter disappear for some time from our scenes in the
capital.

It was about this time that the ex-Emperor was indisposed for some time, and in October his
state became precarious. The anxiety of the public was general, and the Emperor went to visit
him. Notwithstanding his weakness, the former gave him every injunction, first about the Heir-apparent,
then about Genji, and said:--

"Regard him as your adviser, both in large and small matters, without reserve, and not otherwise
than if I were still alive. He is not incapable of sharing in the administration of public
affairs, notwithstanding his youth. He has a physiognomy which argues great qualities, and
for this reason, I made him remain in an ordinary position, without creating him a Royal Prince,
with the object that he should be able to take part in public affairs. Do not misconstrue these
ideas."

There were some more injunctions given of like nature relating to public matters, and the Emperor
sorrowfully and repeatedly assured him that he would not neglect them. Such, however, are not
subjects which we women are supposed to understand, and even thus much that I have mentioned
is given not without some apprehension.

A few days after the visit of the Emperor the Heir-apparent was brought before his dying father.
There had been some idea that he should be brought on the day when the Emperor paid his visit,
but it was postponed to avoid any possible confusion. The boy Prince was apparently more pleased
at seeing his father than concerned at his illness. To him the ex-Emperor told many things,
but he was too young to heed them. Genji was also present, and the ex-Emperor explained to
him in what way he should serve the Government, and how he should look after this young Prince.
When their interview concluded it was already merging towards the evening, and the young Prince
returned to the palace.

The Royal mother of the reigning Emperor (formerly Koki-den-Niogo) would also have visited
the ex-Emperor but for her repugnance to encounter the Princess Wistaria, who never left his side.

In the course of a few days the strength of the Emperor began to decline, and at last he quietly
and peacefully passed away.

And now the Court went into general mourning, and Genji, being one of the principal mourners,
put on a dress of Wistaria cloth;[93] so frequently did misfortune fall on him in the course
of a few years, and his cares became really great.

The funeral and the weekly requiems were performed with all due pomp and ceremony, and when
the forty-ninth day had passed, all the private household of his late Majesty dispersed in
the midst of the dreary weather of the latter part of December to their own homes; the Princess
Wistaria retiring to her own residence in Sanjiô, accompanied by her brother, Prince Hiôbkiô.

True, it is that his late Majesty had been for some time off the throne, but his authority
had by no means diminished on that account. But his death now altered the state of things,
and the ascendancy of the family of Udaijin became assured. The people in general entertained
great fear that infelicitous changes would take place in public affairs, and among these Genji
and the Princess Wistaria were the most disturbed by such anxieties.

The new year came in, but nothing joyful or exciting accompanied its presence--the world was still.

Genji kept himself to his mansion. In those days, when his father was still in power, his courtyard
was filled with the carriages of visitors, especially when the days of the appointments were
approaching; but now this was changed, and his household secretaries had but little to occupy them.

In January the Princess Momo-zono (peach-gardens) was chosen for the Saiin, of the Temple of
Kamo, her predecessor having retired from office, on account of the mourning for her father,
the late ex-Emperor.

There were not many precedents for Princesses of the second generation being appointed to this
position; but this Princess was so chosen, owing, it seems, to the circumstance that there
was no immediate issue of the Imperial blood suitable for this office.

In February the youngest daughter of the Udaijin became the Naishi-no-Kami,[94] in the place
of the former one, who had left office and become a nun after the death of the ex-Emperor.

She took up her residence in the Kokiden, which was till lately occupied by her sister, the
Empress-mother, who at this period spent most of her time at her father's, and who when she
came to the Court made the Ume-Tsubo (the plum-chamber) her apartment.

Meanwhile the Empress-mother, who was by nature sagacious and revengeful, and who during the
late Emperor's life had been fain to disguise her spiteful feelings, now conceived designs
of vengeance against those who had been adverse to her; and this spirit was directed especially
against Genji and his father-in-law, Sadaijin--against the latter because he had married his
only daughter to Genji against the wishes of the Emperor when Heir-apparent, and because during
the life of the late Emperor his influence eclipsed that of her father, Udaijin, who had long
been his political adversary.

The Emperor, it is true, never forgot the dying injunctions of his father, and never failed
in sympathy with Genji; but he was still young, with a weak mind, and therefore he was under
the influence of his mother and grandfather, Udaijin, and was often constrained by them in
his actions to go contrary to his own wishes.

Such being the state of things, Sadaijin seldom appeared at Court, and his loss of influence
became manifest. Genji, too, had become less adventurous and more steady in his life; and in
his mansion Violet became the favorite object of attraction, in whose behalf the ceremony of
Mogi had been duly performed some time before, and who had been presented to her father. The
latter had for a long time regarded her as lost, and even now he never forgave the way in which
his daughter had been taken away by Genji.

The summer had passed without any particular events, and autumn arrived. Genji, wishing to
have a little change, went to the monastery of Unlinin,[95] and spent some days in the chamber
of a rissh (discipline-master), who was a brother of his mother. Maple-trees were changing
their tints, and the beautiful scenery around this spot made him almost forget his home. His
daily amusement was to gather together several monks, and make them discuss before him.

He himself perused the so-called "sixty volumes,"[96] and would get the monks to explain any
point which was not clear to his understanding.

When he came to reflect on the various circumstances taking place in the capital, he would
have preferred remaining in his present retirement; but he could not forget one whom he had
left behind there, and this caused him to return. After he had requested a splendid expiatory
service to be performed, he left the monastery. The monks and the neighbors came to see him
depart. His carriage was still black, and his sleeves were still of Wistaria, and in this gloomy
state he made his return to his mansion in Nijiô.

He brought back some twigs of maple, whose hues, when compared with those in his own garden,
he perceived were far more beautiful. He, therefore, sent one of these to the residence of
Princess Wistaria, who had it put in a vase, and hung at the side of her veranda.

Next day he went to the Imperial Palace, to see his brother the Emperor, who was passing a
quiet and unoccupied leisure, and soon entered into a pleasant conversation on matters both
past and present. This Emperor, it must be remembered, was a person of quiet ways and moderate
ambition. He was kind in heart, and affectionate to his relatives. His eyes were shut to the
more objectionable actions of Genji. He talked with him on different topics of literature,
and asked his opinions on different questions. He also talked on several poetical subjects,
and on the news of the day--of the departure of the Saigû.

The conversation then led to the little Prince, the Heir-apparent. The Emperor said, "Our father
has enjoined me to adopt him as my son, and to be kind to him in every way; but he was always
a favorite of mine, and this injunction was unnecessary, for I could not be any more particularly
kind to him. I am very glad that he is very clever for his age in penmanship and the like."

Genji replied, "Yes, I also notice that he is of no ordinary promise; but yet we must admit
that his ability may be only partial."

After this conversation Genji left. On his way he came across a nephew of the Empress-mother,
who seems to have been a person of rather arrogant and rough character. As he crossed Genji's
path he stopped for a minute, and loudly reciting,

    "The white rainbow crossed the sun,
    And the Prince was frightened,"[97]

passed on. Genji at once understood what it was intended for, but prudently proceeded on his
way homeward without taking any notice of it.

Let us now proceed to the Princess Wistaria. Since she had been bereaved of the late Emperor
she retired to her private residence. She fully participated in all those inglorious mortifications
to which Genji and his father-in-law were subjected. She was convinced she would never suffer
such cruel treatment as that which Seki-Foojin[98] did at the hands of her rival, but she was
also convinced that some sort of misfortune was inevitable. These thoughts at last led her
to determine to give up the world. The fortune of her child, however, had been long a subject
of anxiety to her; and though she had determined to do so, the thought of him had affected
her mind still more keenly. She had hitherto rarely visited the Court, where he was residing;
for her visits might be unpleasing to the feelings of her rival, the other ex-Empress, and
prejudicial to his interests.

However, she now went there unceremoniously, in order to see him before she carried out her
intention to retire. In the course of her chatting with him, she said, "Suppose, that while
I do not see you for some time, my features become changed, what would you think?"

The little Prince, who watched her face, replied, "Like Shikib?[99]--no--that can't be." The
Princess smiled a little, and said, "No, that is not so; Shikib's is changed by age, but suppose
mine were different from hers, and my hair became shorter than hers, and I wore a black dress
like a chaplain-in-waiting, and I could not see you often, any longer." And she became a little
sad, which made the Prince also a little downcast.

Serene was his face, and finely pencilled were his eyebrows. He was growing up fast, and his
teeth were a little decayed and blackened,[100] which gave a peculiar beauty to his smile,
and the prettiness of his appearance only served to increase her regret; and with a profound
pensiveness she returned to her residence.

In the middle of December she performed Mihakkô (a grand special service on the anniversary
of death), which she was carefully preparing for some days. The rolls of the Kiô (Buddhist
Bible) used for this occasion were made most magnificently--the spindle of jade, the covering
of rich satin, and its case of woven bamboo ornamented likewise, as well as the flower-table.

The first day's ceremony was for her father, the second for her mother, and the third for the
late Emperor. Several nobles were present, and participated, Genji being one of them. Different
presents were made by them all. At the end of the third day's performance her vows of retirement
were, to the surprise of all, announced by the priest. At the conclusion of the whole ceremony,
the chief of the Hiye monastery, whom she had sent for, arrived, and from whom she received
the "commandments." She then had her hair cut off by her uncle, Bishop of Yokogawa.

These proceedings cast a gloom over the minds of all present, but especially on those of Hiôb-Kiô,
her brother, and Genji; and soon after every one departed for his home.

Another New Year came in, and the aspect of the Court was brighter. A royal banquet and singing
dances were soon expected to take place, but the Princess Wistaria no longer took any heed
of them, and most of her time was devoted to prayer in a new private chapel, which she had
had built expressly for herself in her grounds.

Genji came to pay his New Year's visit on the seventh day, but he saw no signs of the season.
All nobles who used to pay visits of felicitation, now shunned her house and gathered at the
mansion of Udaijin, near her own. The only things which caught Genji's attention in her mansion
was a white horse,[101] which was being submitted to her inspection as on former occasions.
When he entered, he noticed that all the hangings of the room and the dresses of the inmates
were of the dark hues of conventual life. The only things that there seemed to herald spring,
were the melting of the thin ice on the surface of the lake, and the budding of the willows
on its banks. The scene suggested many reflections to his mind; and, after the usual greetings
of the season, and a short conversation, he quitted the mansion.

It should be here noticed that none of her household officers received any promotion or appointment
to any sinecure office, or honorary title, even where the merit of the individual deserved
it, or the Court etiquette required it. Nay, even the proper income for her household expenses
was, under different pretexts, neglected. As for the Princess, she must have been prepared
for such inevitable consequences of her giving up the world; but it ought not to be taken as
implying that the sacrifice should be so great. Hence these facts caused much disappointment
to her household, and the mind of the Princess herself was sometimes moved by feelings of mortification.
Nevertheless, troubled about herself no longer, she only studied the welfare and prosperity
of her child, and persevered in the most devout prayers for this. She also remembered a secret
sin, still unknown to the world, which tormented the recesses of her soul, and she was constantly
praying to Buddha to lighten her burden.

About the same time, tired of the world, both public and private, Sadaijin sent in his resignation.
The Emperor had not forgotten how much he was respected by the late ex-Emperor, how the latter
had enjoined him always to regard him as a support of the country, and he several times refused
to accept his resignation; but Sadaijin persevered in his request, and confined himself to
his own mansion. This gave complete ascendancy to the family of Udaijin. All the sons of Sadaijin,
who formerly had enjoyed considerable distinction at Court, were now fast sinking into insignificance,
and had very little influence. Tô-no-Chiûjiô, the eldest of them, was one of those affected
by the change of circumstances. True, he was married to the fourth daughter of Udaijin; but
he passed little time with her, she still residing with her father, and he was not among the
favorite sons-in-law. His name was also omitted in the appointment list on promotion day, which
seems to have been intended by his father-in-law as a warning.

Under such circumstances he was constantly with Genji, and they studied and played together.
They both well remembered how they used to compete with each other in such matters as studying
and playing, and they still kept their rivalry alive. They would sometimes send for some scholars,
and would compose poems together, or play the "Covering Rhymes."[102] They seldom appeared
at Court, while in the outer world different scandals about them were increasing day by day.

One day in summer Tô-no-Chiûjiô came to pay his usual visit to Genji. He had brought by his
page several interesting books, and Genji also ordered several rare books from his library.
Many scholars were sent for, in such a manner as not to appear too particular; and many nobles
and University students were also present. They were divided into two parties, the right and
the left, and began betting on the game of "Covering Rhymes." Genji headed the right, and Tô-no-Chiûjiô
the left. To his credit the former often hit on the most difficult rhymes, with which the scholars
were puzzled. At last the left was beaten by the right, consequently Tô-no-Chiûjiô gave an
entertainment to the party, as arranged in their bet.

They also amused themselves by writing prose and verse. Some roses were blossoming in front
of the veranda, which possessed a quiet charm different from those of the full season of spring.

The sight of these afforded them a delightful enjoyment while they were partaking of refreshment.
A son of Tô-no-Chiûjiô, about eight or nine years old, was present. He was the second boy by
his wife, Udaijin's daughter, and a tolerable player on the Sôh-flute. Both his countenance
and disposition were amiable. The party was in full enjoyment when the boy rose and sang "Takasago"
(high sand).[103] When he proceeded to the last clause of his song,

    "Oh, could I see that lovely flower,
    That blossomed this morn!"

Tô-no-Chiûjiô offered his cup to Genji, saying,

    "How glad am I to see your gentleness,
    Sweet as the newly blooming flower!"

Genji, smiling, took the cup as he replied,

    "Yet that untimely flower, I fear,
    The rain will beat, the wind will tear,
    Ere it be fully blown."

And added,

    "Oh, I myself am but a sere leaf."

Genji was pressed by Tô-no-Chiûjiô to take several more cups, and his humor reached its height.
Many poems, both in Chinese and Japanese, were composed by those present, most of whom paid
high compliment to Genji. He felt proud, and unconsciously exclaimed, "The son of King Yuen,
the brother of King Mu;" and would have added, "the King Ching's ----"[104] but there he paused.

To describe the scene which followed at a time such as this, when every mind is not in due
equilibrium, is against the warning of Tsurayuki, the poet, so I will here pass over the rest.

Naishi-no-Kami, the young daughter of Udaijin, now retired to her home from the Court, having
been attacked by ague; and the object of her retirement was to enjoy rest and repose, as well
as to have spells performed for her illness.

This change did her great good, and she speedily recovered from the attack.

We had mentioned before that she always had a tender yearning for Genji, and she was the only
one of her family who entertained any sympathy or good feeling towards him. She had seen, for
some time, the lack of consideration and the indifference with which he was treated by her
friends, and used to send messages of kind inquiry. Genji, on his part also, had never forgotten
her, and the sympathy which she showed towards him excited in his heart the most lively appreciation.

These mutual feelings led at length to making appointments for meeting during her retirement.
Genji ran the risk of visiting her secretly in her own apartments. This was really hazardous,
more especially so because her sister, the Empress-mother, was at this time staying in the
same mansion. We cannot regard either the lady or Genji as entirely free from the charge of
imprudence, which, on his part, was principally the result of his old habits of wandering.

It was on a summer's evening that Genji contrived to see her in her own apartment, and while
they were conversing, a thunderstorm suddenly broke forth, and all the inmates got up and ran
to and fro in their excitement. Genji had lost the opportunity of escape, and, besides, the
dawn had already broken.

When the storm became lighter and the thunder ceased, Udaijin went first to the room of his
royal daughter, and then to that of Naishi-no-Kami. The noise of the falling rain made his
footsteps inaudible, and all unexpectedly he appeared at the door and said: "What a storm it
has been! Were you not frightened?"

This voice startled both Genji and the lady. The former hid himself on one side of the room,
and the latter stepped forth to meet her father. Her face was deeply flushed, which he soon
noticed. He said, "You seem still excited; is your illness not yet quite passed?" While he
was so saying he caught sight of the sash of a man's cloak, twisted round her skirt.

"How strange!" thought he. The next moment he noticed some papers lying about, on which something
had been scribbled. "This is more strange!" he thought again; and exclaimed, "Whose writings
are these?" At this request she looked aside, and all at once noticed the sash round her skirt,
and became quite confused. Udaijin was a man of quiet nature; so, without distressing her further,
bent down to pick up the papers, when by so doing he perceived a man behind the screen, who
was apparently in great confusion and was endeavoring to hide his face. However, Udaijin soon
discovered who he was, and without any further remarks quitted the room, taking the papers
with him.

The troubled state of Genji and the lady may be easily imagined, and in great anxiety he left
the scene.

Now it was the character of Udaijin that he could never keep anything to himself, even his
thoughts. He therefore went to the eldest daughter--that is, the Empress-mother, and told her
that he had found papers which clearly were in the handwriting of Genji, and that though venturesomeness
is the characteristic of men, such conduct as that which Genji had indulged in was against
all propriety. "People said," continued Udaijin, "that he was always carrying on a correspondence
with the present Saiin. Were this true, it would not only be against public decorum, but his
own interest; although I did not entertain any suspicion before."

When the sagacious Empress-mother heard this, her anger was something fearful. "See the Emperor,"
she said; "though he is Emperor, how little he is respected! When he was Heir-apparent, the
ex-Sadaijin, not having presented his daughter to him, gave her to Genji, then a mere boy,
on the eve of his Gembuk; and now this Genji boldly dares to carry on such intrigues with a
lady who is intended to be the Royal consort! How daring, also, is his correspondence with
the sacred Saiin! On the whole, his conduct, in every respect, does not appear to be as loyal
as might be expected, and this only seems to arise from his looking forward to the ascent of
the young Prince to the throne."

Udaijin somehow felt the undesirability of this anger, and he began to change his tone, and
tried to soothe her, saying: "You have some reason for being so affected; yet don't disclose
such matters to the public, and pray don't tell it to the Emperor. It is, of course, an impropriety
on the part of the Prince, but we must admit that our girl, also, would not escape censure.
We had better first warn her privately among ourselves; and if the matter does not even then
come all right, I will myself be responsible for that."

The Empress-mother, however, could not calm her angry feelings. It struck her as a great disrespect
to her dignity, on Genji's part, to venture to intrude into the very mansion where she was
staying. And she began to meditate how to turn this incident into a means of carrying out the
design which she had been forming for some time.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 89: A temporary residence expressly built for the Saigû to undergo purification.]

[Footnote 90: A peculiar gate erected in front of the sacred places.]

[Footnote 91: Shinto priests.]

[Footnote 92: Name of a river of the province of Ise, which the travellers had to cross.]

[Footnote 93: A dress made of the bark of the Wistaria was worn by those who were in deep mourning
for near relatives.]

[Footnote 94: This was an office held by a Court lady, whose duty it was to act as a medium
of communication in the transmitting of messages between the Emperor and State officials.]

[Footnote 95: It is said that the tomb of the authoress of this work is to be found at this spot.]

[Footnote 96: In the Tendai sect of Buddhists there are sixty volumes of the theological writings
which are considered most authoritative for their doctrine.]

[Footnote 97: A passage of a Chinese history. The story is, that a Prince of a certain Chinese
kingdom contrived to have assassinated an Emperor, his enemy. When he sent off the assassin
this event took place. The allusion here seems to imply the allegation that Genji intended
high treason.]

[Footnote 98: She was the favorite of the first Emperor of the Hung dynasty in China, and the
rival of the Empress. When the Emperor died, the Empress, a clever and disdainful woman, revenged
herself by cutting off her feet, and her arms, and making away with her son.]

[Footnote 99: This seems to have been the name of an aged attendant.]

[Footnote 100: Among Japanese children it often happens that the milk teeth become black and
decayed, which often gives a charm to their expression.]

[Footnote 101: It was the custom to show a white horse on the seventh day of the new year to
the Empress, the superstition being that this was a protestation against evil spirits.]

[Footnote 102: A game consisting in opening Chinese poetry books and covering the rhymes, making
others guess them.]

[Footnote 103: Name of a ballad.]

[Footnote 104: In Chinese history it is recorded that in giving an injunction to his son, Duke
Choau, a great statesman of the eleventh century B.C., used these words: "I am the son of King
Yuen, the brother of King Mu, and the uncle of King Ching; but I am so ready in receiving men
in any way distinguished, that I am often interrupted three times at my dinner, or in my bath."
It would seem that Genji, in the pride of his feeling, unconsciously made the above quotation
in reference to himself.]

CHAPTER XI

VILLA OF FALLING FLOWERS

The troubles of Genji increased day by day, and the world became irksome to him. One incident,
however, deserves a brief notice before we enter into the main consequences of these troubles.

There was a lady who had been a Niogo at the Court of the late ex-Emperor, and who was called
Reikeiden-Niogo, from the name of her chamber. She had borne no child to him, and after his
death she, together with a younger sister, was living in straitened circumstances. Genji had
long known both of them, and they were often aided by the liberality with which he cheerfully
assisted them, both from feelings of friendship, and out of respect to his late father.

He, at this time, kept himself quiet at his own home, but he now paid these ladies a visit
one evening, when the weather, after a long-continued rain, had cleared up. He conversed with
them on topics of past times until late in the evening. The waning moon threw her faint light
over the tall trees standing in the garden, which spread their dark shadows over the ground.
From among them an orange-tree in full blossom poured forth its sweet perfume, and a Hototo-gisu[105]
flew over it singing most enchantingly.

"'Ah! how he recollects his own friend!'" said Genji, and continued:--

    "To this home of 'falling flower,'
      The odors bring thee back again,
    And now thou sing'st, in evening hour,
      Thy faithful loving strain."

To this the elder lady replied:--

    "At the home where one lives, all sadly alone,
      And the shadow of friendship but seldom is cast,
    These blossoms reach the bright days that are gone
      And bring to our sadness the joys of the past."

And, after a long and friendly conversation, Genji returned to his home. One may say that the
character of Genji was changeable, it is true, yet we must do him justice for his kind-heartedness
to his old acquaintances such as these two sisters, and this would appear to be the reason
why he seldom estranged the hearts of those whom he liked.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 105: The name of a small bird which appears about the time when the orange trees
are in blossom. It sings, and is most active in the evening. In poetry, therefore, the orange
blossom and this bird are associated, and they are both, the blossom and the bird, emblems
of old memories.]

CHAPTER XII

EXILE AT SUMA

Genji at last made up his mind to undergo a voluntary exile, before the opinion of the Imperial
Court should be publicly announced against him. He heard that the beautiful sea-coast along
Suma was a most suitable place for retirement, and that, though formerly populous, there were
now only a few fishermen's dwellings scattered here and there. To Suma he finally determined
to go into voluntary exile.

When he had thus made up his mind he became somewhat regretful to leave the capital, although
it had hitherto appeared ungenial. The first thing which disturbed his mind was the young Violet,
whom he could not take with him. The young lady, also, in the "Villa of Falling Flowers" (notwithstanding
that he was not a frequent visitor) was another object of his regret.

In spite of these feelings he prepared to set off at the end of March, and at length it came
within a few days of the time fixed for his departure, when he went privately, under the cover
of the evening, to the mansion of the ex-Sadaijin, in an ajiro carriage, generally used by
women. He proceeded into the inner apartments, where he was greeted by the nurse of his little
child. The boy was growing fast, was able to stand by this time and to toddle about, and run
into Genji's arms when he saw him. The latter took him on his knee, saying, "Ah! my good little
fellow, I have not seen you for some time, but you do not forget me, do you?" The ex-Sadaijin
now entered. He said, "Often have I thought of coming to have a talk with you, but you see
my health has been very bad of late, and I seldom appear at Court, having resigned my office.
It would be impolitic to give cause to be talked about, and for it to be said that I stretch
my old bones when private matters please me. Of course, I have no particular reason to fear
the world; still, if there is anything dreadful, it is the demagogical world. When I see what
unpleasant things are happening to you, which were no more probable than that the heavens should
fall, I really feel that everything in the world is irksome to me."

"Yes, what you say is indeed true," replied Genji. "However, all things in the world--this
or that--are the outcome of what we have done in our previous existence. Hence if we dive to
the bottom we shall see that every misfortune is only the result of our own negligence. Examples
of men's losing the pleasures of the Court are, indeed, not wanting. Some of these cases may
not go so far as a deprivation of titles and honors, as is mine;[106] still, if one thus banished
from the pleasures of Court, behaves himself as unconcernedly as those to whom no such misfortune
has happened, this would not be becoming. So, at least, it is considered in a foreign country.
Repentance is what one ought to expect in such circumstances, and banishment to a far-off locality
is a measure generally adopted for offences different from ordinary ones. If I, simply relying
on my innocence, pass unnoticed the recent displeasure of the Court, this would only bring
upon me greater dishonor. I have, therefore, determined to go into voluntary exile, before
receiving such a sentence from the Court."

Then the conversation fell back, as usual, on the times of the late ex-Emperor, which made
them sad; while the child also, who innocently played near, made them still more gloomy. The
ex-Sadaijin went on to say:--"There is no moment when I ever forget the mother of the boy,
but now I almost dare to think that she was fortunate in being short lived, and being free
from witnessing the dreamlike sorrow we now suffer. With regard to the boy, the first thing
which strikes me as unbearable is that he may pass some time of his lovely childhood away from
the gaze of your eyes. There are, as you say, no want of instances of persons suffering a miserable
fate, without having committed any real offence; yet still, in such cases, there was some pretext
to justify their being so treated. I cannot see any such against you."

While he was thus speaking Tô-no-Chiûjiô joined them, and, partaking of saké, they continued
their conversation till late in the evening. This night Genji remained in the mansion.

Early the next morning he returned to his own residence, and he spent the whole day with Violet
in the western wing. It should here be noticed that she was scarcely ever with her father,
even from childhood. He strongly disapproved of his daughter being with Genji, and of the way
in which she had been carried off, so he scarcely ever had any communication with her, or did
he visit her. These circumstances made her feel Genji's affection more keenly than she otherwise
would have; hence her sorrow at the thought of parting with him in a few days may be easily
imagined.

Towards the evening Prince Sotz came with Tô-no-Chiûjiô and some others to pay him a visit.
Genji, in order to receive them, rose to put on one of his Naoshi, which was plain, without
pattern, as proper for one who had no longer a title. Approaching the mirror, to comb his hair,
he noticed that his face had grown much thinner.

"Oh, how changed I appear," he exclaimed. "Am I really like this image which I see of myself?"
he said, turning to the girl, who cast on him a sad and tearful glance. Genji continued:--

    "Though changed I wander far away,
      My soul shall still remain with you,
    Perhaps in this mirror's mystic ray,
      My face may linger still in view."

To this Violet replied:--

    "If in this mirror I could see,
    Always your face, then it would be
    My consolation when thou art gone."

As she said this she turned her face to one side of the room, and by doing so obscured the
tears gathering in her soft eyes. Genji then left her to receive his friends, who, however,
did not remain long, leaving the mansion after a short conversation of a consolatory nature.
This evening Genji paid his visit to the sisters of the "Falling Flower" villa.

On the following day the final arrangements necessary for his household affairs were made at
his residence. The management of the mansion was intrusted to a few confidential friends; while
that of his lands and pasture, and the charge of his documents, were intrusted to the care
of Violet, to whom he gave every instruction what she should do. Besides, he enjoined Shiônagon,
in whom he placed his confidence, to give her every assistance. He told all the inmates who
wished to remain in the mansion, in order to await his return, that they might do so. He also
made an appropriate present to the nurse of his boy, and to the ladies of the "Villa of Falling
Flowers." When all these things were accomplished, he occupied himself in writing farewell
letters to his intimate friends, such as the young daughter of Udaijin and others, to none
of whom he had paid a visit.

