    The South needs every able-bodied negro that is now south of
    the line, and every negro who remains south of the line will
    in the end do better than he will do in the North.

    The negro has been a tremendous factor in the development
    of agriculture and all the commerce of the South. But in the
    meantime, if we are to keep him here, and if we are to have
    the best use of his business capacity, there is a certain duty
    that the white man himself must discharge in his relation to
    the negro.

    The business of lynching negroes is bad, and we believe it
    is declining, but the worst thing is that the wrong negro is
    often lynched. The negro should be protected in all his legal
    rights. Furthermore, in some communities, some white people
    make money at the expense of the negro's lack of intelligence.
    Unfair dealing with the negro is not a custom in the South.
    It is not the rule, but here and there the taking of enormous
    profits from the labor of the negro is known to exist.

    It should be so arranged that the negro in the city does not
    have to raise his children in the alleys and in the streets.
    Liquor in the cities has been a great curse to negroes.
    Millions of dollars have been made by no account white people
    selling no account liquor to negroes and thus making a whole
    lot of negroes no account. Happily this business is being
    extinguished.

    The negroes who are in the South should be encouraged to
    remain there, and those white people who are in the boll
    weevil territory should make every sacrifice to keep their
    negro labor until there can be adjustments to the new and
    quickly prosperous conditions that will later exist.

Among those holding the same view that the South needed the negro was the Georgia Enquirer
Sun of Columbus, Georgia.[159] An editorial in this paper said that not only does the South
need the negro but that he should be encouraged to stay.

The Enquirer Sun further emphasized the fact that the South needs the negro:

    With the certainty that a number will differ with us, we state
    that the negro is an economic necessity to the South. Our
    plantations are large, our climate is peculiar, and we
    ourselves are not accustomed to doing the work that we ask
    the negro to do. Serious labor conditions have confronted us
    before, and it is exceedingly rare to find the native land
    owning white farmer, who has been accustomed to employ negro
    labor, taking the negro's place when the negro leaves his
    neighborhood. The same conditions exist in the industries
    where we of the South have been depending upon the negroes as
    artisans in our industries or mines.

    The South has refused to accept immigration as a means of
    supplying our demands for labor. The farmers stand up and howl
    about preserving the pure blood of the South and invent all
    sorts of reasons for prohibiting the immigration of the same
    classes of people who have been making the North and East rich
    for years; the same classes that build the eighth wonder of
    the world--the Middle West. Now, if we are going to prohibit
    immigration, we must consider the economic status sufficiently
    seriously to preserve the only reliable supply of labor which
    we have ever known. That is the negro. We should ponder over
    the situation seriously and not put off until tomorrow its
    consideration, because this movement is growing every day.
    We should exercise our influence with our landlords and our
    merchants to see that a fairer division of profit is made with
    the negro and should watch the prices charged him as well as
    the interest charged him. We should see that the industries
    offer and pay to him a full and fair wage for his labor which
    will compare favorably with the wages offered in the East.
    We should see to it that the police in our towns, cities and
    counties cease making distinction between the negro and the
    white man when the negro is not absolutely known to be a
    criminal. When we do these things, we will keep our labor and
    we need to keep it.

In connection with the discussion of the need of the South for the negro, the duty of the South
to the negro was pointed out. According to the Columbia (S.C.) State:[160]

    If the southern white people would have the negroes remain,
    they must treat the negroes justly. If they refuse to do so
    their hope of keeping negro labor is in the unwillingness of
    the North to treat them justly, and we fear that this hope is
    more substantial than the North likes to admit. Justice ought
    to be cultivated everywhere for its own sake. Surely common
    sense will dictate to the South that it ought to forestall the
    disruption of our industrial establishment by causing negroes
    to understand that they are safe where they are.

    The Macon Telegraph said of negro labor: "If we lose it, we
    go bankrupt." Yet this same paper only a few months before
    was advocating the sending of 100,000 negroes into Mexico
    to conquer the "mongrel breed," and at the same time rid the
    South of that many worthless negroes.

    The black man has no quarrel with the Mexican, but, on the
    other hand, he certainly has a disagreement with conditions as
    they affect him in the South, and, when he desires to improve
    those conditions by getting away from them, he must be
    checked. Plenty of "sound advice" is given him about staying
    in the South among his friends and under the same old
    conditions. The bugaboo of cold weather is put before him to
    frighten him, of race antagonism and sundry other things, but
    not one word about better treatment is suggested to lighten
    the burden, no sane and reasonable remedy offered.

    The black labor is the best labor the South can get, no
    other would work long under the same conditions. It has
    been faithful and loyal, but that loyalty can be undermined,
    witness the exodus.

A letter published in the Montgomery Advertiser[161] truly says:

    And the negro will not come back once he leaves the South.

    The World War is bringing many changes and a chance for the
    negro to enter broader fields. With the "tempting bait"
    of higher wages, shorter hours, better schools and better
    treatment, all the preachments of the so-called race leaders
    will fall on deaf ears.

    It is probable that the "well informed negro," who told the
    Birmingham editor that it was good schools that were drawing
    the negro, could have given other and more potent reasons had
    he been so minded. He could have told how deep down in the
    negro's heart he has no love for proscription, segregation,
    lynchings, the petty persecutions and cruelties against him,
    nor for the arresting of "fifty niggers for what three of 'em
    done," even if it takes all of this to uphold the scheme of
    civilization.

    From Savannah alone, three thousand negroes went, from sixteen
    year old boys to men of sixty years. There must be something
    radically wrong when aged negroes are willing to make the
    change. There is greater unrest among negroes than those in
    high places are aware.

    Let the Advertiser speak out in the same masterful way, with
    the same punch and pep for a square deal for the negro, that
    it does for democracy and the right for local self-government.

What was the attitude of the northern whites toward the migration? Although the North had been
accustomed to the adding of a million foreigners annually to her population, these newcomers
were white people and as such did not occasion the comment or create just the problems which
a large influx of negroes created. The migration of the negro attracted a great deal of public
attention. A wide and extended discussion of the movement was carried on through the press.
The attitude which the white people assumed toward the migrants was expressed in this discussion.

The New Republic of New York City[162] pointed out that the movement gave the negro a chance
and that he, the South and the nation, would in the end, all be gainers.

    When Austria found the Serbian reply inadmissible, the
    American negro, who had never heard of Count Berchtold, and
    did not care whether Bosnia belonged to Austria or Siam, got
    his "chance." It was not the sort of chance that came to the
    makers of munitions--a chance to make millions. It was merely
    a widening of a very narrow foothold on life, a slightly
    better opportunity to make his way in the industrial world of
    America.

    In the beginning such a migration of negroes would increase
    the present race friction in the North. Within certain limits
    a racial minority is unpopular directly in proportion to its
    numbers. Only as it increases to the point where political
    and economic power makes it formidable, does it overcome
    opposition. The negro's competition for jobs and homes will
    probably exacerbate relations. As the negroes increased in
    numbers they would not only seek menial and unskilled work,
    but also strive to enter skilled trades where they would meet
    with antagonism of white workers. Moreover, the negroes would
    be forced to seek homes in what are now regarded as "white"
    neighborhoods, and a clamor would be raised at each new
    extension of their dwelling area.

    The antidote to persecution, however, is power, and if the
    northern negroes are more numerous and more urgently needed
    in our industrial life, they could protect themselves from the
    worst forms of discrimination. If by 1930 the negro population
    of the North has become three millions, instead of the
    fraction over one million which it is today, and if these
    three millions live better and save and spend more per capita
    than today, they will profit more than they will lose from
    their greater numbers. Their custom will be more valuable,
    their political power greater and, as wage earners, they will
    be strong enough to strike. Once they have completely filled
    a new neighborhood, opposition will cease. Moreover, the
    industrial competition with white workmen, while severe at
    certain crucial points, should not permanently be dangerous,
    since the very conditions which bring the negro north also
    make for higher wages for the white workers. What the white
    wage earner desires is not an industrial exploitation of the
    negro, but the maintenance of the white man's superiority of
    position.

    For the nation as a whole, such a gradual dissemination of
    the negroes among all the States would ultimately be of real
    advantage. If at the end of half a century, only 50 or 60 per
    cent, instead of 89 per cent of the negroes, were congregated
    in the southern States, it would end the fear of race
    domination, and take from the South many of its peculiar
    characteristics, which today hamper development. To the negro
    it would be of even more obvious benefit. The race would be
    far better educated, considerably richer, and with greater
    political power. Success for the negroes of the North would
    mean better conditions for southern negroes. For if the
    southern negro, finding political and social conditions
    intolerable, were able to emigrate to the North, he would have
    in his hand a weapon as effective as any he could find in the
    ballot box.

