We are constrained to admit that, so far, the result of the Elections has not come up to the
confident anticipations of our Party. Seats have been lost that ought to have been retained.
On the other hand, we have failed to win seats that we had a right to count upon as certainties.
It is not easy to apportion the responsibility for failure. Over-confidence and a consequent
want of energy may have had something to do with it; but the chief reason is to be found in
the disgracefully defective organisation of the Party. The story is an old one. We have ourselves
deemed it our duty to lay this aspect of the case before the Leaders of the Party, but our
repeated warnings have been unheeded, and the necessary consequences have followed. Our opponents,
however, have not much to congratulate themselves upon. The Irish question has been kept studiously
in the back-ground, and the results, so far as they have gone, only prove conclusively that
there is no diminution whatever in the dislike with which the majority of the electorate regard
the proposals of the party of disorder. We are far from saying that even now we shall lose
the Election. Everything may yet be retrieved. But, even should the result be numerically favourable
to the Opposition, they will be powerless for mischief with the small majority which is all
they are likely to get.

NO. III. (A WEEK LATER.)

The Elections are now nearing an end, and it is possible to summarise the results. It is not
surprising that our opponents should be reduced to the lowest depths of despair. They counted
with the utmost certainty on a majority of two hundred. But, as matters stand, it is out of
the question that their preponderance should exceed fifty. Where are now the confident boastings
with which they inaugurated the campaign? They have confused the judgment of the electors with
every kind of side-issue. Misrepresentations have been sown broadcast, and have, in too many
instances, succeeded. But the great heart of the country is still sound. Votes must be weighed
as well as counted, and it is safe to assume that, with a paltry and heterogeneous majority
of merely fifty, the advocates of revolution will be reduced to impotence, even if they can
succeed in forming a Government at all. The result is one on which our Party may well congratulate
themselves. They have worked hard, and the solid fruit of their efforts is now within their
reach. We may safely say that the Irish policy of our opponents has received its death-blow.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "There he blows! There he goes!" Like a Titan in throes,
  With his wallopping tail, and his wave-churning nose,
    The spouting Cetacean Colossus!
  Eh? Harpoon that Monster! The thought makes one pale,
  With one thundering thwack of that thumping big tail,
    To the skies in small splinters he'd toss us!

  Rolling in foaming wild billows, ice-laden
  He goes, like the "boisterous sea" (vide HADYN!)
    "Upheaved from the deep," swift, tremendous,
  Leviathan sports on the far-foaming wave.
  If he runs athwart us, what power shall save,
    From the doom to which promptly he'd send us?

  His "soundings," or "diggings," are many and deep;
  But would that his "three-hundred fathoms" he'd keep,
    Below in the ocean's cold quiet.
  But no, not at all; he's not that sort of whale!
  He must breathe, he must blow, he must roar, till the gale
    Is charged with the sound of his riot.

  Leviathan loves the wild turmoil of strife,
  And lashing the billows to him is true life;
    Behold how he buffets and scourges them!
  Chase him? The Captain (though also a Kaiser),
  Might think that his course to avoid him were wiser,
    Until sheer necessity urges them.

