Now, I do not know that I can do better at this point, and in closing, than just to tell you
about some of that bunch of keys that John Bunyan found from time to time in his own bosom,
and which made all his prison doors one after another fly open at their touch.  And this would
make me look over my shoulder behind me to see if I could discern that this God of grace did
follow me with a pardon in His hand. Again, as I was then before the Lord, that Scripture fastened
on my heart: O man, great is thy faith, even as if one had clapped me on the back as I was
on my knees before God . . . Again, one morning, when I was at prayer and trembling under fear,
that piece of a sentence dashed in upon me: My grace is sufficient.  At this, methought: Oh,
how good a thing it is for God to send His word! . . .  These words were then, and sometimes
still are, far bigger words than others are. Again, oh, what did I see in that blessed sixth
of John: Him that cometh to Me I will in nowise cast out.  I should in those days often flounce
toward that promise as horses do toward sound ground that yet stick in the mire.  Oh! many
a pull hath my heart had with Satan for this blessed sixth of John . . .  Heirs of God, methought,
heirs of God!  God himself is the portion of His saints.  Which of the promises have been of
such help to you?  Over what Scriptures have you ever cried out: Oh, how good a thing it is
for God to send me His word!  Which are the biggest words in all the Bible to you? To what
promise did you ever flounce as a horse flounces when he is sticking in the mire?  And has
any word of God so made God your God that even death itself, since it alone separates you from
His presence, is lovely and beautiful in your eyes?  Have you a cluster of such keys in your
bosom?  If you have, take them all out to-night and go over them again with thanksgiving before
you sleep.

KNOWLEDGE

   'I will give you pastors after Mine own heart, which shall feed you
   with knowledge and understanding.'

The Delectable Mountains rise out of the heart of Immanuel's Land.  This fine range of far-rolling
hills falls away on the one side toward the plain of Destruction, and on the other side toward
the land of Beulah and the Celestial City, and the way to the Celestial City runs like a bee-
line over these well-watered pastures.  Standing on a clear day on the highest peak of the
Delectable Mountains, if you have good eyes you can see the hill Difficulty in the far-back
distance with a perpetual mist clinging to its base and climbing up its sides, which mist the
shepherds say to you rises all the year round off the Slough of Despond, while, beyond that
again the heavy smoke of the city of Destruction and the town of Stupidity shuts in the whole
horizon.  And then, when you turn your back on all that, in favourable states of the weather
you can see here and there the shimmer of that river over which there is no bridge; and, then
again, so high above the river that it seems to be a city standing in heaven rather than upon
the earth, you will see the high towers and shining palace roofs and broad battlements of the
New Jerusalem itself. The two travellers should have spent the past three days among the sights
of the Delectable Mountains; and they would have done so had not the elder traveller misled
the younger.  But now that they were set free and fairly on the right road again, the way they
had spent the past three days and three nights made the gardens and the orchards and the pastures
that ran round the bottom and climbed up the sides of the Delectable Mountains delectable beyond
all description to them.  The two travellers therefore went up to the shepherds, and leaning
upon their staves (as is common with weary travellers when they stand to talk with any by the
way), they asked: Whose delectable mountains are these? and whose be the sheep that feed upon
them?  These mountains, replied the shepherds, are Immanuel's Land, and they are within sight
of the city; the sheep also are His, and He laid down His life for them.  They said, moreover:
We would that you should stay with us a while to be acquainted with us, and yet more to solace
yourselves with the cheer of these Delectable Mountains.  Then the travellers told them they
were content to stay; and so they went to rest that night because it was now very late.  The
four shepherds lived all summer-time in a lodge of tents well up among their sheep, while their
wives and families had their homes all the year round in the land of Beulah.  The four men
formed a happy fraternity, and they worked among and watched over their Master's sheep with
one united mind. What one of those shepherds could not so well do in the tent or in the fold
or out on the hillside, some of the others better did.  And what one of them could do to any
perfection all the others by one consent left that to him to do.  You would have thought that
they were made by a perfect miracle to fit into one another, so harmoniously did they live
and work together, and such was the bond of brotherly love that held them together.  At the
same time, there was one of the happy quaternity who, from his years on the hills, and his
services in times of trial and danger, and one thing and another, fell always, and with the
finest humility too, into the foremost place, and his name, as you have already heard, was
Knowledge.  Old Mr. Know-all the children in the villages below ran after him and named him
as they clustered round his staff and hid in the great folds of his shepherd's coat.

