"Evvie, what year wuz it we got married? Yes, dat's right. It wuz de year of de 'shake'. Is
you heerd bout de 'shake'? Come out here Evvie and les tell him dat, kaise dese young fokes
doan know nothin'. It wuz dark, and we wuz eatin' supper, when sumpin started to makin' de
dishes fall out'n de cupboard. At fus we thought it wuz somebody a jumpin' up and down on de
flo. Den we knowed dat it wuz sumpin else er makin' dem dishes fall out o' de cupboard. At
fus we thought it wuz Judgment day, kaise ev'ry thing started fallin' worser and worser. De
dishes fell so fast you couldn't pick'em up. Some of us went down to de spring. De white fokes,
dey come along wid us and dey make us fetch things from de big house, like fine china dat de
Missus didn't want to git broke up. She tole us dat it wuz er earthquake and it wasn't no day
o' Judgment. Anyway, we lowed de white fokes might be wrong, so us niggers started to a prayin',
and den all de niggers on de plantation dat heerd us, well de come along and jined wid us in
de prayin' and singin'. Us wuz all a shakin' mos as bad as de earth wuz, kaise dat wuz a awful
time dat we libbed through fer bout twenty minutes--de white fokes lowed it lasted only ten,
but I ain't sho about dat. When we got back to de big house, de cupboard in de kitchen had
done fell plum' down. In de nigger houses, de chimneys mos all fell in, and de chicken houses
ev'rywhar wuz shuck down. While we wuz a lookin' aroun, and de wimmen fokes, dey wuz a takin'
on mightily another shake come up. Us all took fer de spring agin; dis one lasted bout long
as de first one. Us prayed and sung and shouted dis time. It sho stopped de earth a shakin'
and a quiverin' some, kaise dat thing went on fer a whole week; ceptin de furs two wuz de heaviest.
All de other ones wuz lighter. Iffen it hadn't been fur us all a beggin' de Lawd fer to sho
us his mercy, it ain't no tellin' how bad dem shakes would er been. Miss Becky Levister, you
know her, she live up yander in your uncle John's house now, she wuz wid us. She wuz jus a
little girl den. Her paw wuz Mr. Kelly. He died for ever you wuz born. Not long ago I seed
her. She lowed to me, 'uncle Henry, do you recollect in de time o' de shake? Lacken she think
I'd fergit such as dat. It wuz in de time o' de worsest things dis ole nigger is ebber seed
hisself, and I is gwine on 82 now. Miss Becky, she wuz a settin' in her car wid some one drivin'
her, but she ain't fergot dis ole nigger. If I is up town and Miss Becky, she ride by, she
look out and lows' 'Howdy uncle Henry', and I allus looks up and raises my hat. I likes mannerable
white fokes, mysef, and den, I likes mannerable niggers fer as dat goes. Some of dese fokes,
now both white--I hates to say it--and niggers, dey trys to act like dey ain't got no sense
er sumpin'. But you know one thing I knos real fokes when I sees dem and dey can't fool me."

Aunt Evvie tells the following story about her father, Rufus Chick. The story is known by all
of the reliable white folks of the surrounding neighborhood also: "My paw, Rufus Chick, lived
on the Union side of Broad River, the latter days of his life. Maj. James B. Steadman had goats
over on Henderson Island that my paw used to care for. He went over to the Island in a batteau.
One afternoon, he and four other darkies were going over there when the batteau turned over.
The four other men caught to a willow bush and were rescued. My paw could not swim, and he
got drowned. For three weeks they searched for his body, but they never did find it. Some years
after, a body of a darky was found at the mouth of the canal, down near Columbia. The body
was perfectly petrified. This was my paw's body. The canal authorities sent the body to a museum
in Detroit. It was January 11, 1877 when my father got drowned.

"When I wuz a young fellow I used to race wid de horses. I wuz de swifes runner on de plantation.
A nigger, Peter Feaster, had a white horse of his own, and de white fokes used to bet amongst
de selves as much as $20.00 dat I could outrun dat horse. De way us did, wuz to run a hundred
yards one way, turn around and den run back de hundred yards. Somebody would hold de horse,
and another man would pop de whip fer us to start. Quick as de whip popped, I wuz off. I would
git sometimes ten feet ahead of de horse 'fore dey could git him started. Den when I had got
de hundred yards, I could turn around quicker dan de horse would, and I would git a little
mo' ahead. Corse wid dat, you had to be a swift man on yer feets to stay head of a fas horse.
Peter used to git so mad when I would beat his ole horse, and den all de niggers would laf
at him kaise de white fokes give me some of de bettin money. Sometimes dey would bet only $10.00,
sometimes, $15 or $20. Den I would race wid de white fokes horses too. Dey nebber got mad when
I come out ahead. After I got through, my legs used to jus shake like a leaf. So now, I is
gib plum out in dem and I tributes it to dat. Evvie, she lowed when I used to do dat after
we wuz married, dat I wuz gwine to give out in my legs, and sho nuf I is."

"Uncle" Henry says that his legs have given out in the bone. I lived on Squire Keller's farm,
near the Parr place, and after the squire died I belonged to Mrs. Elizabeth (Wright) Keller.
My mother died when I was a boy and my father was bought and carried to Alabama. My father
was Gilliam Coleman and my mother, Emoline Wright. My master and mistress was good to me. The
old Squire was as fine a man as ever lived on earth. He took me in his home and took care of
me. After the war the mistress stayed on the place and worked the slaves right on, giving them
wages or shares.

"The slaves were not whipped much; I 'member one man was whipped pretty bad on Maj. Kinard's
place. He had a colored man to do whipping for him--his name was Eph. There was no whiskey
on the place, never made any. Us did cooking in the kitchen wid wide fireplaces.

"When the Yankees came through at the end of the war, they took all the stock we had. The mistress
had a fine horse, its tail touching the ground, and we all cried when it was taken; but we
got it back, as some men went after it.

"I married in 1874 to Ellen T. Williams. She belonged to Bill Reagan. After I married I worked
in the railroad shops at "Helena", and sometimes I fired the engine on the road, for about
eight years. Then I went into the ministry. I was called by the Spirit of the Lord, gradually,
and I preached 51 years. I have been superannuated two years.

"I have one child, a son, who is in the pullman service at Washington, D. C.

"I owned my little house and several acres and am still living on it."

"I born en raise up dere in Colonel Durant yard en I in my 78th year now. Dat seem lak I ole,
don' it? Coase Colonel Durant hab plenty udder colored peoples 'sides us, but dey ne'er lib
dere in de yard lak we. Dey lib up in de quarters on de plantation. My pappy name Ben Thompson
en he hadder stay dere close to de big house cause he wus de Colonel driver. De Colonel hab
uh big ole carriage wha' to ride in den. It hab uh little seat in de front fa my pappy to set
in en den it hab two seat 'hind de driver whey de Colonel en he family is ride. I kin see dat
carriage jes uz good right now dat my white folks hab to carry em whey dey is wanna go."

"Den my mammy come from de udder side uv Pee Dee en she name, Lidia Bass. She was de servant
'round de yard dere en dat count fa we to ne'er stay in de quarters wid de udder colored peoples
'fore freedom declare. I ne'er hadder do no work long uz I lib dere in de yard cause I ain'
been but five year ole when freedom declare. My grandmammy lib right dere close us en Colonel
Durant hab she jes to look a'ter aw de plantation chillun when dey parents wuz workin'. Aw
uv de plantation peoples 'ud take dey chillun dere fa my grandmammy to nu'se."

"I 'member one day dere come uh crowd uv peoples dere dat dey tell us chillun wuz de Yankees.
Dey come right dere t'rough de Colonel yard en when I see em, I wuz 'fraid uv em. I run en
hide under my grandmammy bed. Don' know wha' dey say cause I ain' ge' close 'nough to hear
nuthin wha' dey talk 'bout. De white folks hadder herry (hurry) en put t'ings in pots en bury
em or hide em somewhey when dey hear dat de Yankees wus comin' cause dey scare dem Yankees
might take dey t'ings lak dey is carry 'way udder folks t'ings. I hear em say dey ne'er take
nuthin from de Colonel but some uv he wood."

"My white folks was well-off peoples en dey ain' ne'er use no harsh treatment on dey plantation
peoples. De Colonel own aw dis land 'bout here den en he see dat he overseer on de plantation
provide plenty uv eve't'ing us need aw de time. I hear tell 'bout some uv de white folks 'ud
beat dey colored peoples mos' to death, but I ain' ne'er see none uv dat no whey. I is 'member
when dey'ud sell some uv de colored peoples way offen to annuder plantation somewhey. Jes been
bid em offen jes lak dey wuz cattle. Some uv de time dey'ud sell uh man wife 'way en den he
hadder ge' annuder wife."

"A'ter freedom declare, we ne'er lib dere at de big house no more. Move in de colored settlement
en den we ain' eat at de big house no more neither. Dey le' us hab uh garden uv we own den
en raise us own chicken en aw dat. I 'member de Colonel gi'e us so mucha t'ing eve'y week en
it hadder las' us from one Saturday to de next. My mammy 'ud go to de Colonel barn eve'y week
en ge' she portion uv meal en meat. Dat de way dey pay de hand fa dey work den. Ne'er gi'e
em no money den."

"Peoples wha' lib on Colonel Durant plantation ain' know nuthin but to lib on de fat uv de
land. Dey hab plenty cows den en dey gi'e us plenty uv milk eve'y day. I 'member we chillun
use'er take we tin cup en go up to de big house en ge' us milk to drink en den some uv de cows
'ud be so gentle lak dat we chillun is follow em right down side de path. Den when dere ne'er
wuz nobody lak de Colonel overseer 'bout to see us, we is ketch de cow en ge' some more milk.
I al'ays'ud lub to drink me milk dat way. We is eat plenty green peas en 'tatoes en fish in
dem days too en dey is use 'tatoe pie right smart den."

"Aw de colored peoples on Colonel Durant plantation hab good bed wha' to sleep on en good clothes
to put on dey back. Coase we ne'er hab no bought fu'niture in dem days, but we hab bedstead
wha' dey make right dere en benches en some uv de time dey is make wha' dey call 'way back
chair. Den we is make us own bed outer hay cause de white folks ne'er spare de colored peoples
no cotton den. Hadder cut de hay in de fall uv de year en dry it jes lak dey dries it fa to
feed de cattle on. Den dey hadder take sack en sew em up togedder en put de hay in dese. Dey
sleep right smart in dem days. Don' mucha people sleep on straw bed dese day en time en dey
don' dress lak dey use'er neither. I 'member de long dress dey is wear den. Hadder hold em
up when dey walk so dey won' tetch de floor 'bout em. Den some uv dem is wear wha' dey call
leggens. Dey'ud gather em 'round de knee en le' em show 'bout de ankle. Dey wuz pretty, dat
dey wuz. De jeanes cloth be wha' dey make de boy clothes outer. Dey is weave aw dey cloth right
dere on de plantation en den dey use'er dye de thread en weave aw sorta check outer de different
color thread. Wha' dey make de dye outer? Dey ge' bark outer de woods en boil de color outer
it en den dey boil de thread in dat. Dat how dey is make dey dye. Ne'er see de peoples hab
no hat lak dey hab now neither. Aw de colored peoples wear wha' dey call shuck hat den cause
dey been make outer shuck. Dat aw de kinder hat we is hab."

"Peoples use'er ge' aw kinder useful t'ing outer de woods in dem days 'way back dere. Ne'er
hadder buy no me'icine tall den. Ain' ne'er been no better cough cure no whey den de one my
ole mammy use'er make fa we chillun. She larnt 'bout how it made when she stay 'round de Missus
en dat how come I know wha' in it. Jes hadder go in de woods en ge' some cherry, call dat wild
cherry, en cut some uv de wild cherry bark fust (first) t'ing. A'ter dat yuh hadder find some
uv dese long-leaf pine en ge' de bud outer dat. Den yuh hadder go to whey dere some sweet gum
grow en ge' de top outer dem en ge' some mullen to put wid it. Ain' ne'er no cough stand aw
dat mix up togedder in no day en time. Dey gi'e dat to de peoples fa dat t'ing wha' dey use'er
call de grip cough. Den dey use'er make uh t'ing dat dey call "bone set" tea. I forge' how
dey make it but dey gi'e it to de peoples when dey hab de fevers. It been so bitter dat it'ud
lift yuh up 'fore yuh is ge' it aw down de t'roat. Ain' see no fever me'icine lak dat nowadays."

"Yas'um, I 'members when dey hab plenty uv dem cornshucking to one annuder barn. De peoples'ud
come from aw de plantation 'bout dere. Dem corn-shuckings wuz big times, dat dey wuz. Gi'e
eve'body aw de "hopping-john" dey kin eat. Jes cook it aw in uh big pot dere in de yard to
de big house. Ain' nuthin ne'er eat no better den dat "hopping-john" is eat."

"Den de peoples use'er come from aw de plantation 'bout en hab big dancing dere. Dat when I
lub to be 'bout. Dey hab uh big fire build up outer in de yard en dat wha' dey dance 'round
'bout. Call dat uh torch fire. Dey'ud hab fiddle en dey dance wha' dey call de reel dance den.
I 'member I use'er lub to watch dey feet when dat fiddle 'ud ge' to playing. I jes crawl right
down on me knees dere whey I'ud see dey feet jes uh going."

"I ne'er hab mucha schooling 'fore freedom declare cause I been raise up on de plantation.
Dis child (her daughter) pappy wuz de house boy to de big house en he ge' more schooling den
I is. De Missus larnt he how to read en write she self. A'ter freedom declare, I go to school
to uh white man up dere to de ole Academy en den I is go to annuder school down dere to uh
blacksmith shop. I go to uh white man dere too. Ne'er hab no colored teacher den cause dey
ain' hab 'nough schooling den. Dese chillun don' know nuthin 'bout dem times. I tell dese chillun
I don' know wha' dey wanna run 'bout so mucha cause dere plenty t'ing to see dat pass right
dere by us house eve'y day. I t'ink dis uh better day en time to lib en cause dis uh brighter
day now dat we hab."

John Collins lives in a two-room frame cottage by the side of US 21, just one mile north of
the town of Winnsboro, S. C. on the right side of the highway and a few hundred yards from
the intersection of US 21 and US 22. The house is owned by Mr. John Ameen. His son, John, who
lives with him, is a farm hand in the employ of Mr. John Ameen, and is his father's only support.

"They tells me dat I was born in Chester County, just above de line dat separates Chester and
Fairfield Counties. You know where de 'dark corner' is, don't you? Well, part is in Fairfield
County and part is in Chester County. In dat corner I first see de light of day; 'twas on de
29th of February, 1852. Though I is eighty-five years old, I's had only twenty-one birthdays.
I ketches a heap of folks wid dat riddle. They ask me: 'How old is you Uncle John?' I say:
'I is had twenty-one birthdays and won't have another till 1940. Now figure it out yourself,
sir, if you is so curious to know my age!' One time a smart aleck, jack-leg, Methodist preacher,
of my race, come to my house and figured all day on dat riddle and never did git de correct
answer. He scribbled on all de paper in de house and on de back of de calendar leaves. I sure
laughed at dat preacher. I fears he lacked some of dat good old time 'ligion, de way he sweated
and scribbled and fussed.

"My daddy was name Steve Chandler. My mammy was called Nancy. I don't know whether they was
married or not. My daddy was sent to Virginia, while de war was gwine on, to build forts and
breastworks around Petersburg, so they say, and him never come back. I 'members him well. He
was a tall black man, over six feet high, wid broad shoulders. My son, John, look just lak
him. Daddy used to play wid mammy just lak she was a child. He'd ketch her under de armpits
and jump her up mighty nigh to de rafters in de little house us lived in.

"My mammy and me was slaves of old Marse Nick Collins. His wife, my mistress, was name Miss
Nannie. Miss Nannie was just an angel; all de slaves loved her. But marster was hard to please,
and he used de lash often. De slaves whisper his name in fear and terror to de chillun, when
they want to hush them up. They just say to a crying child: 'Shet up or old Nick will ketch
you!' Dat child sniffle but shet up pretty quick.

"Marster didn't have many slaves. Best I 'member, dere was about twenty men, women, and chillun
to work in de field and five house slaves. Dere was no good feelin's 'twixt field hands and
house servants. De house servants put on more airs than de white folks. They got better things
to eat, too, than de field hands and wore better and cleaner clothes.

"My marster had one son, Wyatt, and two daughters, Nannie and Elizabeth. They was all right,
so far as I 'member, but being a field hand's child, off from de big house, I never got to
play wid them any.

"My white folks never cared much about de slaves having 'ligion. They went to de Universalist
Church down at Feasterville. They said everybody was going to be saved, dat dere was no hell.
So they thought it was just a waste of time telling niggers about de hereafter.

"In them days, way up dere in de 'dark corner', de white folks didn't had no schools and couldn't
read or write. How could they teach deir slaves if they had wanted to?

"De Yankees never come into de 'dark corner'. It was in 1867, dat us found out us was free;
then we all left. I come down to Feasterville and stayed wid Mr. Jonathan Coleman. From dere,
I went to Chester. While I was living dere, I married Maggie Nesbit. Us had five chillun; they
all dead, 'cept John. My wife died two months ago.

"I is tired now, and I is sad. I's thinking about Maggie and de days dat are gone. Them memories
flood over me, and I just want to lay down. Maybe I'll see you sometime again. I feel sure
I'll see Maggie befo' many months and us'll see de sunrise, down here, from de far hebben above.
Good day. Glad you come to see me, sir!" Few it was dat ever seed even a Lady's Birthday Almanac.
I is 75 years old. I was dat last January on de 13th day [~HW: 186~]. I was born in old Union
County about 4 miles south of Gaffney.

"Marse Mike Montgomery had a place dat reached from town way yonder to Broad River whar de
Ninety-nine Islands lays. Now, de way de road lays, dey counts it twelve miles from Gaffney.
When I was a boy it was lots further dan dat.

"Never know'd why, but de Red Shirts whipped my pa, Tom Corry. Dey jes' come and got him out'n
his house. He come back in de house. Chilluns was not give no privileges in dem days, so I
never axed no questions, kaise I was fear'd. Chilluns jes' trots into your business dese days.

"My pa say he was a slave on dem Ninety-nine Islands. All I know is what he told me. Mr. Mike
Montgomery built lots of boats. Dey carried from 50 to 60 bales of cotton down at one time.
De cotton was carried in de fall. De Smith place jined de Montgomery place and dat run into
de Nancy Corry place. I have forded de river dar lots of times. Broad River is shallow, deepest
place in it back den was at de mouth of King Creek, jes' below Cherokee Falls. It ain't so
broad dar.

"Pa was de boatman for Mr. Mike. De boat was big and long, and dey always started off early
in de morning wid a load of cotton. Old man Dick Corry had to stand in de boat jes' behind
pa. Dey had two steermen. So many rocks in de shallow water dat it kept de steermen busy dodging
rooks. Dey pushed de boat off de rocks wid long poles. Dey had to work away from de rocks.
Sometimes dey had to get out in de water and roll some rocks from dere path if de water wasn't
cold.

"Wharever night caught dem, dar dey stopped and pitched a camp. Dey fished and killed wild
ducks or birds dat was plentiful den, and cooked dem along wid bread and other things fetched
from home. On de way from Columbia dey had lots of store-bought things to eat. Store-bought
things was a treat den. Now ducks and things is a treat. Times sho changes fast.

"Spring was took up wid farming. Every man, white and black, had a family back in dem days.
Dat dey did, rich or poor, white or black, all raised families. Men farmed and hauled manure
and cleaned up de plantation lots and fields and grubbed in de spring. Women cooked and washed
and ironed and spun and kept house and made everybody in de house clothes, and made all de
bed clothes. Dey stayed home all of de time. Men got through work and set down at home wid
deir wives and never run around. Now all goes. Dat's all dey does dese days is go.

"We had plenty of bread and milk and we raised hogs and killed all kinds of wild things like
turkey, ducks and birds, and caught fish. Men had guns dat dey used every day, and dey hit
things, too. Folks kept in practice, wid guns and had shooting matches.

"After dey stopped boating, wagons come in. Den things begin to change. Dey still is changing.
Wagons went to Spartanburg to take cotten. Folks never went to Columbia no more. Spartanburg
begin to grow and it sho still is at it."

  Source: Bouregard Corry (N, 75), Rt. 2, Gaffney, S. C.
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S. C. (11/22/37).

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  CALEB CRAIG
  EX SLAVE 86 YEARS OLD.

Caleb Craig lives in a four-room house, with a hall, eight feet wide, through the center and
a fireplace in each room. He lives with his grandson, who looks after him.

"Who I is? I goes by de name of C. C. All de colored people speaks of me in dat way. C. C.
dis and C. C. dat. I don't 'ject but my real name is Caleb Craig. Named after one of de three
spies dat de Bible tell 'bout. Him give de favorite report and, 'cause him did, God feed him
and clothe him all de balance of him life and take him into de land of Canaan, where him and
Joshua have a long happy life. I seen a picture in a book, one time, of Joshua and Caleb, one
end of a pole on Joshua's shoulder and one end on Caleb's shoulder, wid big bunches of grapes
a hangin' from dat pole. Canaan must to been a powerful fertile land to make grapes lak dat.

"Would you believe dat I can't write? Some of them adultery (adult) teachers come to my house
but it seem a pack of foolishness; too much trouble. I just rather put my money in de bank,
go dere when I want it, set dat C. C. to de check, and git what I want.

"When I born? Christmas Eve, 1851. Where 'bouts? Blackstock, S. C. Don't none of us know de
day or de place us was born. Us have to take dat on faith. You know where de old Bell house,
'bove Blackstock, is? Dere's where I come to light. De old stagecoach, 'tween Charlotte and
Columbia, changed hosses and stop dere but de railroad busted all dat up.

"My mammy name Martha. Marse John soon give us chillun to his daughter, Miss Marion. In dat
way us separated from our mammy. Her was a mighty pretty colored woman and I has visions and
dreams of her, in my sleep, sometime yet. My sisters would call me Cale but her never did.
Her say Caleb every time and all de time. Marse John give her to another daughter of his, Miss
Nancy, de widow Thompson then, but afterwards her marry a hoss drover from Kentucky, Marse
Jim Jones. I can tell you funny things 'bout him if I has time befo' I go.

"Us chillun was carried down to de June place where Miss Marion and her husband, Marse Ed P.
Mobley live. It was a fine house, built by old Dr. June. Marse Ed bought de plantation, for
de sake of de fine house, where he want to take Miss Marion as a bride.

"Dere was a whole passle of niggers in de quarter, three hundred or maybe more. I didn't count
them, 'cause I couldn't count up to a hundred but I can now. Ten, ten, double ten, forty-five,
and fifteen. Don't dat make a hundred? Sho' it do.

"Clothes? Too many dere, for to clothe them much. I b'long to de shirt-tail brigade 'til I
got to be a man. Why I use to plow in my shirt-tail! Well, it wasn't so bad in de summer time
and us had big fires in de winter time, inside and outside de house, whenever us was working'.
'Til I was twelve years old I done nothin' but play.

"Money? Hell no! Excuse me, but de question so surprise me, I's caught off my guard. Food?
Us got farm produce, sich as corn-meal, bacon, 'lasses, bread, milk, collards, turnips, 'tators,
peanuts, and punkins.

"De overseer was Mr. Brown. My marster was much talked 'bout for workin' us on Sunday. He was
a lordly old fellow, as I 'member, but dere was never anything lak plowin' on Sunday, though
I do 'member de hands workin' 'bout de hay and de fodder.

"Marse Ed, a great fox hunter, kep' a pack of hounds. Sometime they run deer. Old Uncle Phil
was in charge of de pack. Him had a special dog for to tree 'possums in de nighttime and squirrels
in de daytime. Believe me, I lak 'possum de best. You lak 'possum? Well, I'll git my grandson
to hunt you one dis comin' October.

"Marse Ed didn't 'low patarollers (patrollers) on de June place. He tell them to stay off and
they knowed to stay off.

"Slave drovers often come to de June place, just lak mule drovers and hog drovers. They buy,
sell, and swap niggers, just lak they buy, sell, and swap hosses, mules, and hogs.

"Us had preachin' in de quarters on Sunday. Uncle Dick, a old man, was de preacher. De funerals
was simple and held at night. De grave was dug dat day.

"A man dat had a wife off de place, see little peace or happiness. He could see de wife once
a week, on a pass, and jealousy kep' him 'stracted de balance of de week, if he love her very much.

"I marry Martha Pickett. Why I marry her? Well, I see so many knock-knee, box-ankle, spindly-shank,
flat nose chillun, when I was growin' up, dat when I come to choose de filly to fold my colts,
I picks one dat them mistakes wasn't so lakly to appear in. Us have five chillun. Lucy marry
a Sims and live in Winnsboro, S. C. Maggie marry a Wallace and live in Charlotte, N. C. Mary
marry a Brice and live in Chester, S. C. Jane not married; she live wid her sister, Mag, in
Charlotte. John lives 'bove White Oak and farms on a large place I own, not a scratch of pen
against it by de government or a bank.

"I live on 27 acres, just out de town of Winnsboro. I expects no pension. My grandchillun come
and go, back'ards and fo'ards, and tell me 'bout cities, and high falutin' things goin' on
here and dere. I looks them over sometime for to see if I didn't do sumpin' for deir figures,
in s'lectin' and marryin' Martha, dat's more important to them than de land I'll leave them
when I die. When Martha die, I marry a widow name Eliza but us never generate any chillun.
Her dead. Not 'nough spark in me to undertake de third trip, though I still is a subject of
'tentions.

"What 'bout Marse Ed and Marse Jim Jones? Well, you see, Marse Jim was close wid his money.
Marse Ed was a spender. I 'tend Marse Ed to a chicken main once. Marse Jim rode up just as
Marse Ed was puttin' up $300.00 on a pile brass wing rooster, 'ginst a black breasted red war
hoss rooster, dat de McCarleys was backin'. Marse Ed lost de bet. But him never told Marse
Jim, dat befo' he rode up, him had won $500.00 from them same men. After de main was over,
Marse Jim, bein' brudder-in-law to Marse Ed, rode home to dinner wid him. After dinner they
was smokin' deir cigars befo' de parlor fire dat I was 'viving up. Marse Jim lecture Marse
Ed for throwin' 'way money. Marse Ed stretch out his long legs and say: 'Mr. Jones does you
'member dat day us 'tended de circus in Chester and as us got to de top of de hill a blind
begger held out his cup to us and you put in a quarter?' Mr. Jones say he does 'member dat.
Marse Ed went on: 'Well, Mr. Jones, I had a dream last night. I dream us comin' through de
Cumberland Mountains wid a drove of mules from Kentucky. You was ridin' a piebald hoss, de
same one you rode into South Carolina de fust time you come here. You had on a faded, frazzled
grey shawl, 'bout lak de one you had on today. Us was in front, de outriders behind, when us
got to de gap in de mountains. De drove stampede just as us git in de gap. Us was both kilt.
You got to heaven befo' I did. When I did git dere, you was befo' de High Court. They examine
you and turn over de leaves of a big book and find very little dere to your credit. At last
they say, I think it was de 'Postle Peter dat ask de question. Him say: 'Everything is recorded
in dis book. Us can find nothin'. Do you happen to 'member anything you did to your credit
down dere on earth?' Then you stand up wid dat old shawl 'round your shoulders and say: 'Aha!
I do 'member one thing. One day I was in Chester and put a quarter of a dollar in a blind man's
tin cup.' De 'postle then tell de recording angel to see if him could find dat deed. Him turn
over de leaves 'til him found it on de page. Then de twelve 'postles retire and 'liberate on
your case. They come back and de judge pass sentence which was: 'The sentence of de High Court
is, that in view of your great love of money, James Jones, it is de sentence of de court dat
you be given back de quarter you give de blind beggar in Chester and dat you, James Jones,
be sent immediate on your way to hell.' Then they both laugh over dat and Marse Jim got real
happy when he find out Marse Ed quit de main wid $200.00 to de good."

  Address:
  Caleb Craig,
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  That part of the suburb of Winnsboro called "Mexico". Just east of the
  Southern Railway Company and north of Winnsboro Cotton Mills.

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  DINAH CUNNINGHAM
  EX-SLAVE 84 YEARS OLD.

Dinah Cunningham lives about seven miles west of Ridgeway, S. C., on the Hood place about a
hundred yards off the old Devil's Race Track road. She lives with her daughter and son-in-law
and their three children. They live in a two-room frame house with a shed room annex. In the
annex, Dinah and the smaller children sleep. They are kind to Dinah, who is feeble and can
do no farm labor. Dinah is as helpless about the home as a child.

"I's come up here 'bout seventeen miles for to let you see me. 'Spect you don't see much in
dis old worn out critter. Now does you?

"Well, here I is, and I wants you white folks to help me, 'cause I's served you from generation
to generation. Wid de help of de Lord and trustin' in Jesus de Lamb, I knows I's goin' to git
help. When is they gwine to start payin' off? I's heard them say how you got to be on de roll
and signed up befo' de fourth day of July. So here I is!

"I was born de fust day of March, 1853, out from Ridgeway, sunrise side. My marster was David
Robertson and my mistress name Sally. Her was mighty pretty. Her was a Rembert befo' she marry
Marse Dave. They had one child dat I was de nurse for and her name was Luray. Her marry Marse
Charlie Ray.

"De onliest whippin' I got was 'bout dat child. I had de baby on de floor on a pallet and rolled
over on it. Her make a squeal like she was much hurt and mistress come in a hurry. After de
baby git quiet and go to sleep, she said: 'Dinah, I hates to whip you but de Good Book say,
spare de rod and spoil de child.' Wid dat, she goes out and git a little switch off de crepe
myrtle bush and come back and took my left hand in her left hand, dat had all de rings on de
fingers, and us had it 'round dat room. I make a big holler as she 'plied dat switch on dese
very legs dat you sees here today. They is big and fat now and can scarcely wobble me 'long
but then, they was lean and hard and could carry me 'long like a deer in de woods.

"My white folks was no poor white trash, I tells you! Good marse and good mistress had heap
of slaves and overseers. One overseer name Mr. Welch. De buckra folks dat come visitin', use
to laugh at de way he put grease on his hair, and de way he scraped one foot back'ards on de
ground or de floor when they shake hands wid him. He never say much, but just set in his chair,
pull de sides of his mustache and say 'Yas sah' and 'No sah', to them dat speak to him. He
speak a whole lot though, when he git down in de quarters where de slaves live. He wasn't like
de same man then. He woke everybody at daylight, and sometime he help de patrollers to search
de houses for to ketch any slaves widout a pass.

"Us had all us need to eat, sich as was good for us. Marse like to see his slaves fat and shiny,
just like he want to see de carriage hosses slick and spanky, when he ride out to preachin'
at Ainswell and sometime de Episcopal church at Ridgeway. My young mistress jine de Baptist
church after she marry, and I 'member her havin' a time wid sewin' buckshots in de hem of de
dress her was baptized in. They done dat, you knows, to keep de skirt from floatin' on top
of de water. You never have thought 'bout dat? Well, just ask any Baptist preacher and he'll
tell you dat it has been done.

"When de Yankees come, they went through de big house, tore up everything, ripped open de feather
beds and cotton mattresses, searchin' for money and jewels. Then they had us slaves ketch de
chickens, flung open de smoke-house, take de meat, meal, flour, and put them in a four-hoss
wagon and went on down to Longtown. Them was scandlous days, boss! I hope never to see de likes
of them times wid dese old eyes again.

"I 'member 'bout de Ku Klux just one time, though I heard 'bout them a heap. They come on de
Robertson place all dressed up wid sheets and false faces, ridin' on hossback, huntin' for
a republican and a radical nigger, (I forgits his name, been so long) but they didn't find
him. They sho' was a sight and liked to scared us all to death.

"Was I ever married? Sure I was, I marry Mack Cunningham. Us was jined in de holy wedlock by
Marse Alex Matherson, a white trial justice. Ask him and he'll tell you when it was. I's got
some chillun by dat husband. There is William at Charlotte, and Rosy at Ridgeway. Rosy, her
marry a man name Peay. Then there is Millie Gover at Rembert and Lila Brown at Smallwood, de
station where Marse Charlie Ray and my Mistress Luray was killed by a railroad train runnin'
into de automobile they was in. Then there is my daughter, Delia Belton, at Ridgeway, and John
L., a son livin' and farmin' at Cedar Creek.

"I b'longs to de Mt. Olivet Church dat you knows 'bout. White folks comes there sometime for
to hear de singin'. They say us can carry de song better than white folks. Well, maybe us does
love de Lord just a little bit better, and what's in our mouth is in our hearts.

"What you gwine to charge for all dat writin' you got down there? If you writes much more maybe
I ain't got enough money to pay for it. I got a dollar here but if it's more than dat you'll
have to wait on me for de balance. You say it don't cost nothin'? Well, glory hallelujah for
dat! I'll just go 'round to de colored restaurant and enjoy myself wid beef stew, rice, new
potatoes, macaroni and a cup of coffee. I wonder what they'll have for dessert. 'Spect it'll
be some kind of puddin'. But I'd be more pleased if you would take half of this dollar and
go get you a good dinner, too. I would like to please you dat much!

"May de good Lord be a watch 'tween me and you 'til us meets again."

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  FOLKLORE

  LUCY DANIELS

"Aunt Lucy is a tall well-built old woman who looks younger than her years. She delights in
talking, and was glad to tell what she knew about the olden times.

"I don't know how old I been when de war end. If I been in de world I wasn't old enough to
pick up nuthin'. Miss Lulie Bowers say I'll be 78 first of March coming. Miss Lulie was my
'young Missus'. I love Miss Lulie, and I thinks she thinks a heap of me--my young Missus, and
her father, my young Massa. He good to his darkies. He was a rich man--even after de war. Miss
Lulie say she was de only young lady that could go off to college after de war. Miss Lulie
help me powerful. She give me shoes, and beddin. She and me grow up together. She is in de
bed sick now. I jes' come from dere. Had de doctor to see her.

"I hear 'em tell 'bout how de soldiers burn 'em out. My mother would tell me. My father had
gone off to fight. Say dey'd tie de hams an' de things on de saddle--and burn de expensive
houses. White folks jes' had to hide everything. She talk 'bout all de men was gone and de
women had to pile up, four or five in one house to protect deyselves. My father say when dey
been 'rough-few-gieing' (refugeeing) de Beaufort Bridge been burn down. He say he been so hungry
one time he stop to a old lady's house and ask her for something to eat. She say she didn't
have nothing but some dry bread. He take de bread, but he say it been so hard, he threw some
of it away. But he say he so hungry he wish he hadn't throw it away. It was a hard time. Used
to have to weave cloth and dye thread. Had a loom to weave on and a spinning wheel. My grandmother
say de Yankees come to her house and take everything, but she say one little pullet run out
in de weeds and hide and de soldiers couldn't find her. She say dat pullet lay and hatch and
dat how dey got start off again. Dey scramble and dey raise us some how or another.

"I had nine chillun for my first husband and one for my second husband. I raise 'em all 'till
dey grown; but all dead now 'cept three. My husband died last year, I had to work for my chillun.
But my second husband, he help me wid 'em.

"Dat's all I kin tell you, Miss. I don't remember so much. Chillun in those days weren't so
bright as dey is now, you know." He lived at de old Campbell Havird House and I lived dar wid
him. My mother belonged to dis Lake family and she was named Martha Lake. I don't know who
my father was, but I was told he was a white man.

"We slaves had good enough quarters to live in, and dey give us plenty to eat. De house I live
in now is fair, but it has a bad roof. It is my wife's chillun's place. My wife had it and
left it to dem. She was Ellen Gallman, a widow when I married her. Only my blind daughter now
live wid me. I was married five times and had eighteen chilluns by three wives. Each of my
wives died befo' I married agin. I didn't separate from any. My mother's father lived wid Marse
Lake. He and his wife come from Virginia.

"I was a boy in slavery and worked and piddled round de house. Sometimes I had to work de corn
or in de garden. We had plenty to eat. As de old saying is, 'We lived at home and boarded at
de same place.' We raised everything we had to eat, vegetables, hogs, cows and de like. Marster
had a big garden, but he didn't let his slaves have any garden of deir own. We made all our
clothes, homespun. My mother used to spin at night and work out all day; lots of niggers had
to do dat.

"Marse Lake was good to his niggers, but he had to whip dem sometimes, when dey was mean. He
had six or eight slaves, some on de upper place and some on de home place. We got up at daylight
and worked all day, except for dinner lunch, till it was sundown.

"We never worked at night in de fields. Sometimes Marse would have corn-shuckings and de neighbors
would come in and help catch up wid shucking de corn; den dey would have something to eat.
De young folks would come, too, and help, and dey would dance and frolic.

"I didn't learn to read and write. Marse never said anything about it. My sister learned when
some of de white women school teachers boarded at Marse Lake's house. De teachers learn't my
sister when she was de maid of de house, and she could read and write good. Didn't have a school
or church on de plantation. Atter de war, some of de niggers started a brush arbor. Befo' de
war, some of us niggers had to come to town wid de white folks and go to deir church and set
in de gallery.

"De patrollers was sometimes mean. If dey catch'd a nigger away from home widout a pass dey
sho whipped him, but dey never got any of us. Dey come to our house once, but didn't git anybody.

"We had to work all day Saturdays, but not Sundays. Sometimes de fellows would slip off and
hunt or fish a little on Sunday. Women would do washing on Saturday nights, or other nights.
We had three days holiday when Christmas come, and we had plenty good things to eat, but we
had to cook it ourselves. De marster would give de chillun little pieces of candy.

"Chillun had games like marbles and anti-over. Dey played anti-over by a crowd gitting on each
side of de house and throwing a ball from one side to de other. Whoever got de ball would run
around on de other side and hit somebody wid it; den he was out of de game. We never believed
much in ghosts or spooks. I never saw any.

"Some of de folks had remedies for curing, like making hot tea from a weed called 'bone-set'.
Dat weed grows wild in de woods. It was good for chills and fever. De tea is awful bitter.
Little bags of asafetida was used to hang around de little chillun's necks to ward off fever
or diptheria.

"We used to call de cows on de plantation like dis: 'co-winch, co-winch'. We called de mules
like dis: 'co, co', and de hogs and pigs, 'pig-oo, pig-oo'. We had dogs on de place, too, to
hunt wid.

"When freedom come, de marster told us we could go away or stay on. Most of us stayed on wid
him. Soon atter dis, he got mad at me one day and told me to git off de place. I come to town
and stayed about two weeks, piddling around to git along. I found out whar my mother was--she
had been sold and sent away. She was in Saluda (Old Town). I went to her and stayed two weeks;
den she come to Newberry and rented a little cabin on Beaver Dam Creek, near Silver Street.

"I remember hearing about de Yankees. When dey come through here dey camped in town to keep
order and peace. I remember de Ku Klux, too, how some of 'em killed niggers. I voted in town
on de Republican ticket. I am still a Republican. None of my friends held office, but I remember
some of dem. Old Lee Nance was one, and he was killed by a white man.

"Since de war, de niggers have worked mostly on farms, renting and wage-hands. Some of dem
have bought little places. Some moved to town and do carpenter work, and others jes' piddle around.

"Some of de dances de niggers had was, 'Jump Jim Crow'; one nigger would jump up and down while
tripping and dancing in de same spot. Some times he say, 'Every time I jump, I jump Jim Crow.'
We had what was called a 'Juber' game. He would dance a jig and sing, 'Juber this, Juber that,
Juber killed a yellow cat'.

"I never thought much about Abraham Lincoln nor Jefferson Davis. Only seed de pictures of dem.
Reckon dey was all right. Don't know nothing about Booker Washington, neither.

"I was 25 years old when I joined de church. I joined because I thought I ought to, people
preaching Christ and him crucified; and I thought I ought to do right. Think everybody ought
to join de church and be religious.

"What I think of de present generation is hard to say. Dey is not like de old people was. De
old generation of chilluns could be depended on, but de present niggers can't be.

"No, de slaves never expected anything when de war was over, dem in de neighborhood didn't.
Some say something about gitting 40 acres of land and a mule, but we never expected it. None
ever got anything, not even money from de old marsters or anybody."

  Source: John N. Davenport (N, 89), Newberry, S. C. RFD
          Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. (11/3/37)

  Project 1886-1
  FOLKLORE
  Spartanburg Dist. 4
  June 8, 1937
  Edited by:
  Elmer Turnage

  STORIES FROM EX-SLAVES

"I was born, March 10, 1848, on Little River in Newberry county, S. C. My master in slavery
time was Gilliam Davenport. He was good to his slaves, not strict; good to his cattle, and
expected his negroes to be good to them. But he was quick to resent anything from outsiders
who crossed his path.

"All that part of the country was good for hunting. The deer, fox, and wild turkey have gone;
though a few years ago, some men brought some foxes there and turned them loose, thinking they
would breed, but they gradually disappeared. The kildees were many. That was a sign of good
weather. When they flew high and around in a circle, it was a sign of high winds.

"Fishing in the rivers was much done. They fished with hooks on old-time canes. They had fish
baskets, made of wooden splits, with an opening at the end like the wire baskets now used.
If they were set anytime, day or night, a few hours afterwards would be enough time to catch
some fish.

"An old sign was: when the youngest child sweeps up the floor, somebody was coming to see you.
If a dish-rag was dropped on the floor, somebody was coming who would be hungry." I had one
of dem slavery bible, but I have a burnin out so many times dat it done been burn up. I belong
to Mr. George Crawford people. Mr. George de one what die up here one of dem other year not
far back. Dey who been my white folks."

"I can tell you a good deal bout what de people do in slavery time en how dey live den, but
I can' tell you nothin bout no jump about things. My Massa didn' 'low us to study bout none
of dem kind of frolickings in dat day en time."

"I gwine tell you it just like I experience it in dem days. We chillun lived well en had plenty
good ration to eat all de time cause my mammy cook for she Missus dere to de big house. All
she chillun lived in a one room house right dere in de white folks yard en eat in de Missus
big kitchen every day. Dey give my mammy en she chillun just such things as de white folks
had to eat like biscuit en cake en ham en coffee en hominy en butter en all dat kind of eatin.
Didn' have no need to worry bout nothin 'tall. My Massa had a heap of other colored peoples
dere besides we, but dey never live dat way. Dere been bout 80 of dem dat live up in de quarter
just like you see dese people live to de sawmill dese days. Dey live mighty near like us, but
didn' have no flour bread to eat en didn' get no milk en ham neither cause dey eat to dey own
house. Didn' get nothin from de dairy but old clabber en dey been mighty thankful to get dat.
Oh, dey had a pretty good house to live in dat was furnish wid dey own things dat dey make
right dere. Den dey had a garden of dey own. My Massa give every one of he plantation family
so much of land to plant for dey garden en den he give em every Saturday for dey time to tend
dat garden. You see dey had to work for de white folks all de other week day en dey know when
dey hear dat cow horn blow, dey had to do what de overseer say do. Never couldn' go off de
place widout dey get a mit (permit) from de overseer neither else dey tore up when dey come
back. No 'mam, didn' dare to have nothin no time. Didn' 'low you to go to school cause if you
was to pick up a book, you get bout 100 lashes for dat. No 'mam, didn' have no church for de
colored peoples in dem days. Just had some of dese big oaks pile up one on de other somewhe'
in de woods on dat whe' we go to church. One of de plantation mens what had more learnin den
de others was de one what do de preachin dere."

"My Massa wasn' never noways scraggeble to he colored peoples. Didn' cut em for every kind
of thing, but I is see him beat my stepfather one time cause he run away en stay in de woods
long time. Oh, he beat him wid a switch or a stick or anything like dat he could get hold of."

"Didn' never know nothin bout doing no hard work in us chillun days. When I was a boy, I mind
de crows out de field. Oh, crows was terrible bout pickin up peoples corn in times back dere.
You see if dey let de crows eat de corn up, dey had to go to de trouble of planting it all
over again en dat how-come dey send we chillun in de field to mind de crows off it. We just
holler after em en scare em dat way. Crows was mighty worser in dem days den dey is dis day
en time."

"I sho remembers when freedom was declare cause I was bout 16 year old den. When dem Yankees
talk bout comin round, my Massa take all we colored boys en all he fast horses en put em back
in de woods to de canebrake to hide em from de Yankees. It been many a year since den, but
I recollects dat we was settin dere lookin for de Yankees to get as any minute. Wasn' obliged
to make no noise neither. Oh, we had big chunk of lightwood en cook meat en hoecake en collards
right dere in de woods. Den my Massa take one of dem oldest plantation boys to de war wid him
en ain' nobody never hear tell of him no more. He name Willie. O my Lord, when dey hear talk
bout de Yankees comin, dey take all de pots en de kettles en hide em in holes in de fields
en dey put dey silver bout some tree so dey know whe' dey bury it. Den dey hide de meat en
de corn to de colored peoples house en when dey hear talk of de Yankees gwine away, dey go
en get em again. Dem Yankees never destroy nothin bout dere, but dey is make my Massa give
em a cart of corn en a middlin of meat. Yes'um, I look at dem Yankees wid me own eyes. Dey
was all dressed up in a blue uniform en dey was just as white as you is. Oh, dey said a lot
of things. Say dey was gwine free de niggers en if it hadn' been for dem, we would been slaves
till yet. Coase I rather be free den a slave, but we never have so much worryations den as
people have dese days. When we get out of clothes en get sick in dat day en time, we never
had to do nothin but go to us Massa. Now, we have to look bout every which a way."

"My Massa ask my mother was she gwine live with him any longer after freedom was declare en
she say she never have no mind to leave dere. We live on dere for one year en den we studied
to get another place. I believes heap of dem white folks died just on account of us get freed.
Dey never didn' want us to be free."

"I heard a 'oman say somebody had conjured her, but I don' believe in none of dat. I knows
I got to die some of dese days en dat might come before me. I don' bother wid none of dat kind
of thing, but I'll tell you bout what I has experience. I had two dogs dere en somebody poison
em cause dey tell me somebody do dat. Oh, I know dey was poison. De police say de dog was poison.
A 'oman do it dat had chillun what was afraid of my dog en dat how-come she poison it. I sho
think she done it cause it just like dis, anything peoples tell me, I believes it."

"I have seen dem things peoples say is a ghost when I was stayin here to Lake View. I plant
a garden side de road en one night I hear somethin en I look out en dere was a great big black
thing in me garden dat was makin right for de house. I call me wife en tell her to look yonder.
De thing was comin right to de house en my wife hurry en light up de lamp. I hear de peoples
say if you didn' light up de lamp when you see a spirit, dat it would sho come in en run you
out. I had done paid some money on de place but after I see dat thing, I didn' have no mind
to want it. Had de best garden en chickens dere I ever had, but I never bother no worry bout
dat. Just pick right up en leave dere to come here en I been here ever since. I knows dat been
somethin come dere to scare me out dat house. Dat ain' been nothin else but a spirit. Ain'
been nothin else."

  Source: Charlie Davis, age 88, colored, Marion, S. C.
          Personal interview, July 1937.

  Project #1655
  Henry Grant
  Columbia, S. C.

  CHARLIE DAVIS'S MUSINGS.

Charlie Davis, now seventy-nine years old, was a small boy when the slaves were freed. He lives
alone in one room on Miller's Alley, Columbia, S. C., and is healthy and physically capable
of self-support.

"I has been wonderin' what you wanted to talk to dis old nigger 'bout since I fust heard you
wanted to see me. I takes it to be a honor for a white gentleman to desire to have a conversation
wid me. Well, here I is, and I bet I's one of de blackest niggers you's seen for a season.
Somehow, I ain't 'shame of my color a-tall. If I forgits I is dark complected, all I has to
do is to look in a glass and in dere I sho' don't see no white man.

"Boss, I is kinda glad I is a black man, 'cause you knows dere ain't much expected of them
nowhow and dat, by itself, takes a big and heavy burden off deir shoulders. De white folks
worries too much over dis and over dat. They worries 'cause they ain't got no money and, when
they gits it, they worries agin 'cause they is 'fraid somebody is gwine to steal it from them.
Yes, sir, they frets and fumes 'cause they can't 'sociate wid big folks and, when they does
go wid them, they is bothered 'cause they ain't got what de big folks has got.

"It ain't dat way wid most niggers. Nothin' disturbs them much, 'cept a empty stomach and a
cold place to sleep in. Give them bread to eat and fire to warm by, then, hush your mouth;
they is sho' safe then! De 'possum in his hollow, de squirrel in his nest, and de rabbit in
his bed, is at home. So, de nigger, in a tight house wid a big hot fire, in winter, is at home,
too.

"Some sort of ease and comfort is 'bout what all people, both white and black, is strivin'
for in dis world. All of us laks dat somethin' called 'tentment, in one way or de other. Many
white folks and some darkies thinks dat a pile of money, a fine house to live in, a 'spensive
'motorbile, fine clothes, and high 'ciety, is gwine to give them dat. But, when they has all
dis, they is still huntin' de end of de rainbow a little ahead of them.

"Is de black man nervous or is he natchally scary? Well, sir, I is gwine to say yes and no
to dat. A nigger gits nervous when he hears somethin' he don't understand and scared when he
sees somethin' he can't make out. When he gits sho' 'nough scared, he moves right then, not
tomorrow. Lak de wild animals of de woods, he ain't 'fraid of de dark, much, if he is movin'
'bout, but when he stops, no house is too tight for him, in summer or winter. If he sees a
strange and curious sight at night, he don't have to ask nobody what to do, 'cause he knows
dat he has foots. It is good-bye wid old clothes, bushes, and fences, when them foots gits
to 'tendin' to deir business. When you hears a funny and strange noise and sees a curious and
bad sight, I b'lieves you fust git nervous and then dat feelin' grows stronger fas', 'til you
git scared. I knows de faster I moves, de slower I gits scared.

"From my age now, you can tell dat I was mighty little in slavery time. All I knows 'bout them
terrible times is what I has heard. I come pretty close to them ticklish times, but I can't
help from thinkin', even now, dat I missed a 'sperience in slavery time dat would be doin'
me good to dis very day. Dere ain't no doubt dat many a slave learnt good lessons dat showed
them how to work and stay out of de jail or poorhouse, dat's worth a little.

"I has heard my mammy say dat she b'long to de Wyricks dat has a big plantation in de northwestern
part of Fairfield County and dat my daddy b'long to de Graddicks in de northern part of Richland
County. Dese two plantations was just across de road from each other. Mammy said dat de patrollers
was as thick as flies 'round dese plantations all de time, and my daddy sho' had to slip 'round
to see mammy. Sometime they would ketch him and whip him good, pass or no pass.

"De patrollers was nothin' but poor white trash, mammy say, and if they didn't whip some slaves,
every now and then, they would lose deir jobs. My mammy and daddy got married after freedom,
'cause they didn't git de time for a weddin' befo'. They called deirselves man and wife a long
time befo' they was really married, and dat is de reason dat I's as old as I is now. I reckon
they was right, in de fust place, 'cause they never did want nobody else 'cept each other,
nohow. Here I is, I has been married one time and at no time has I ever seen another woman
I wanted. My wife has been dead a long time and I is still livin' alone. All our chillun is
scattered 'bout over de world somewhere, and dat somewhere is where I don't know. They ain't
no help to me now, in my old age. But, I reckon they ain't to be blamed much, 'cause they is
young, full of warm blood and thinks in a different way from de older ones. Then, too, I 'spects
they thinks deir old daddy would kinda be in deir way, and de best thing for them to do is
to stay away from me. I don't know, it just seems lak de way of de world.

"I come from de Guinea family of niggers, and dat is de reason I is so small and black. De
Guinea nigger don't know nothin', 'cept hard work, and, for him to be so he can keep up wid
bigger folks, he has to turn 'round fas'. You knows dat if you puts a little hog in a pen wid
big hogs, de little one has got to move 'bout in a hurry amongst de big ones, to git 'nough
to eat, and de same way wid a little person, they sho' has to hustle for what they gits. I
has no head for learnin' what's in books, and if I had, dere wasn't no schools for to learn
dat head, when I come 'long. I has made some money, 'long through de years, but never knowed
how to save it. Now I is so old dat I can't make much, and so, I just live somehow, dat's all.

"President Roosevelt has done his best to help de old, poor, and forgotten ones of us all,
every color and race, while dis 'pression has been gwine on in dis country. Is us gwine to
git dis new pension what is gwine 'bout, or is dat other somebody gwine to think he needs it
worser than us does? Dat's de question what 'sorbs my mind most, dese days. I don't need much,
and maybe I don't deserve nothin', but I sho' would lak to git hold of dat little dat's 'tended
for me by dat man up yonder in Washington. (Roosevelt)

"Does I b'lieve in spirits and hants? My answer to dat question is dis: 'Must my tremblin'
spirit fly into a world unknown?' When a person goes 'way from dis world, dere they is, and
dere they is gwine to stay, 'til judgment." Sis, I did somethin last night dat I oughtn't done
en I can' hardly walk dis mornin. Pulled off my long drawers last night en never had none to
change wid. I can' bear to get down en pray or nothin like dat, my knee does ache me so bad.
I gwine up town yonder en get some oil of wintergreen en put on it. Yes'um, dat sho a good
thing to strike de pain cause I heard bout dat long years ago. Sis, ain' you got no coffee
nowhe' dis mornin? God knows, de Lord sho gwine bless you, Sis."

"What honey? No'um, I won' here in slavery time. I was just tereckly after it. Well, I come
here a Lewis, but I inherited de Davis name when I married. Old man Peter Lewis was my daddy,
en my mother--she was a North Carolina woman. Oh, I heard dat man talk bout de old time war
so much dat I been know what was gwine fly out his mouth time he been have a mind to spit it
out. My daddy, he belonged to de old man Evans Lewis en he been de one his boss pick to carry
to de war wid him. Yes'um, he stayed up dere to Fort Sumter four years a fightin en hoped shoot
dem old Yankee robbers. My old man, he had one of dem old guns en I give it to his brother
Jimmie. He lives way up yonder to de north en he carried dat gun wid him just cause I give
it to him, he say. He marry my younger sister en she grayer den I is. Think dey say dey lives
to Rockingham, North Carolina. Yes, honey, my daddy was sho in dat wash out dere to Fort Sumter.
Lord, have mercy, I never hear tell of crabs en shrimps in all my life till my daddy come back
en tell bout a old woman would be gwine down de street, dere to Charleston, cryin, 'Shrimps,
more shrimps.' But, my Lord, I can' half remember nothin dese days. If I had de sense I used
to have, I would give de Lord de praise. Honey, he said a lot of stuff bout de war. Told a
whole chance of somethin. Tell us bout de parade en everything, but I is forgetful now en I
just can' think. De Bible say dat in de course of your life, you will be forgetful in dat how
I is. Just can' think like I used to. You see, I gwine in 70 now.

"Oh, I was born dere to Mullins in January on de old man Evans Lewis' plantation. Den we moved
dere to de Mark Smith place after freedom settle here. Dat long high man, dat who been us boss.
His wife was name Sallie en de place was chock full of hands. No, mam, my white folks didn'
care bout no quarter on dey plantation. Colored people just throwed 'bout all over de place.
Oh, I tell you, it was a time cause de niggers was dere, plenty of dem. Some of dey house was
settin side de road, some over in dat corner, some next de big house en so on like dat all
over de place. Oh, dey lived all right, I reckon. Never didn' hear dem say dey got back none.
Hear dey live den better den de people lives now. Oh, yes'um, I hear my parents say de white
folks was good to de colored people in slavery time. Didn' hear tell of nobody gettin nothin
back on one another neither. No, child, didn' never hear tell of nothin like dat. Seems like
de people don' work dese days like dey used to nohow. Well, dey done somethin of everything
in dat day en time en work bout all de time. Ain' nobody workin much to speak bout dese days
cause dey walks bout too much, I say. I tell you, when I been a child gwine to school, soon
as I been get home in de evenin en hit dat door-step, I had to strip en put on my everyday
clothes en get to work. Had to pick up wood en potatoes in de fall or pick cotton. Had to do
somethin another all de time, but never didn' nobody be obliged to break dey neck en hurry
en get done in dem days. Chillun just rushes en plays too much dese days, I say. No, Lord,
I don' want to rush no time. I tellin you, when I starts to Heaven, I want to take my time
gettin dere.

"Lord, child, I sho hope I gwine to Heaven some of dese days cause old Satan been ridin me
so tough in dis here world, I ain' see no rest since I been know bout I had two feet. My husband,
he treat me so mean, if he ain' in Heaven, he in de other place, I say. Den all dem chillun,
Lord a mercy, dey will kill you. I raised all mine by myself en I tell you, dey took de grease
out of me.

"My daddy, he was a prayin man. Lord knows, he was a prayin man. Seems like de old people could
beat de young folks a prayin up a stump any day. I remember, my daddy come here to de white
people church to Tabernacle one night en time dem people see him, dey say, 'Uncle Peter, de
Lord sho send you cause ain' nobody but you can pray dese sinners out of hell here tonight.'
God knows dat man could sing en pray. Lord, he could pray. Oh, darlin child, dat man prayed
bout all de time. Prayed every mornin en every night en when us would come out de field at
12 o'clock, us had to hear him pray fore he ever did allow us to eat near a morsel. Sis, I
remember one day, when dey first started we chillun a workin in de field, I come to de house
12 o'clock en I was so hungry, I was just a poppin. God knows, people don' serve de Lord like
dey used to."

"Sis, you wants dat one patch, too. Lord Jesus, dere ain' no limit to dis one. Sis, I must
be come here on Saturday cause everywhe' I goes, I has to work. Hear talk, if you born on a
Saturday, you gwine have to work hard for what you get all your days. I been doin somethin
ever since I been big enough to know I somebody. Remember de first thing I ever do for a white
woman. Ma come home en say, 'Heddie, get up in de mornin en wash your face en hands en go up
to Miss Rogers en do everything just like she say do.' I been know I had to do dat, too, cause
if I never do it, I know I would been whip from cane to cane. When I got dere, I open de gate
en look up en dere been de new house en dere been de old one settin over dere what dey been
usin for de kitchen den. I won' thinkin bout nothin 'cept what Miss Rogers was gwine say en
when I been walk in dat gate, dere a big bulldog flew up in my head. I stop en look at him
en dat dog jump en knock me windin en grabbed my foot in his mouth. Yes'um, de sign dere yet
whe' he gnawed me. White folks tell me I been do wrong. Say, don' never pay no attention to
a dog en dey won' bother up wid you. But, honey, dat dog had a blue eye en a pink eye. Ain'
never see a dog in such a fix since I been born. I tell you, if you is crooked, white folks
will sho straighten you out. Dat dog taught me all I is ever wanted to know. Lord, Miss Mary,
I been love dat woman. De first time I ever see her, she say, 'You ain' got no dress to wear
to Sunday School, I gwine give you one.' Yes, mam, Miss Mary dress me up en de Lord knows,
I ain' never quit givin her de praise yet.

"Yes'um, de Yankees, I hear my daddy talk bout when dey come through old Massa's plantation
en everything what dey do. Say, dere was a old woman dat was de cook to de big house en when
dem Yankees come dere dat mornin, white folks had her down side de cider press just a whippin
her. Say, de Yankees took de old woman en dressed her up en hitched up a buggy en made her
set up in dere. Wouldn' let de white folks touch her no more neither. Oh, de place was just
took wid dem, he say. What dey never destroy, dey carried off wid dem. Oh, Lord a mercy, hear
talk dere was a swarm of dem en while some of dem was in de house a tearin up, dere was a lot
of dem in de stables takin de horses out. Yes'um, some was doin one thing en some another.
En Pa tell bout dey had de most sense he ever did see. Hitched up a cart en kept de path right
straight down in de woods en carted de corn up what de white folks been hide down dere in de
canebrake. Den some went in de garden en dug up a whole lot of dresses en clothes. En dere
was a lady in de house sick while all dis was gwine on. Oh, dey was de worst people dere ever
was, Pa say. Took all de hams en shoulders out de smokehouse en like I tell you, what dey never
carried off, dey made a scaffold en burned it up. Lord, have mercy, I hopes I ain' gwine never
have to meet no Yankees."

Henry Davis is an old Negro, a bright mulatto, who lives in a two-room frame house on the farm
of Mr. Amos E. Davis, about two miles southwest of Winnsboro, S. C.

In the house with him, are his wife, Rosa, and his grown children, Roosevelt, Utopia, and Rose.
They are day laborers on the farm. At this period, Henry picks about seventy-five pounds of
cotton a day. His children average one hundred and fifty pounds each. The four together are
thus enabled to gather about five hundred and twenty-five pounds per day, at the rate of sixty-five
cents per hundred. This brings to the family, a daily support of $3.41. This is seasonal employment,
however; and, as they are not a provident household, hard times come to Henry and his folks
in the winter and early summer.

"I was born on de old Richard Winn plantation dat my master, Dr. W. K. Turner, owned and lived
on. I was born de year befo' him marry Miss Lizzie Lemmon, my mistress in slavery time.

"My mother was name Mary and took de name of Davis, 'cause befo' freedom come, her was bought
by my master, from Dr. Davis, near Monticello.

"I had a good many marsters and mistresses. Miss Minnie marry Dr. Scruggs. Miss Anna marry
Mr. Dove. Miss Emma marry Mr. Jason Pope. Marse Willie K. marry a Miss Carroll up in York,
S. C., and Marse Johnnie marry Miss Essie Zealy. My brothers and sisters was Minton, Ike, Martha,
and Isabella.

"Who I marry and all 'bout it? How come you want to know dat? I 'clare! You think dat gwine
to loosen me up? Well, I marry de 'Rose of Sharon' or I calls her dat when I was sparkin' her,
though she was a Lemmon. Her was name Rose Lemmon. Lots of times she throw dat in my face,
'Rose of Sharon' when things go wrong. Then her git uppish and sniff, 'Rose of Sharon, my eye!
You treats me lak I was a dogwood rose on de hillside or worse than dat, lak I was a Jimson
weed or a rag weed.'

"My mammy and us chillun live in de yard not far from de kitchen. My mammy do de washin' and
ironin'. Us chillun did no work. I ride 'round most of de time wid de doctor in his buggy and
hold de hoss while he visit de patients. Just set up in de buggy and wait 'til him git ready
to go to another place or go home.

"I 'member de Yankees comin' and searchin' de house, takin' off de cows, mules, hosses, and
burnin' de gin-house and cotton. They say dat was General Sherman's orders. They was 'lowed
to leave de dwellin' house standin', in case of a doctor or preacher.

"Miss Lizzie had a whole lot of chickens. Her always keep de finest pullets. She make pies
and chicken salad out of de oldest hens. Dat February de Yankees got here, she done save up
'bout fifty pullets dat was ready to lay in March. A squad of Yankees make us chillun ketch
every one and you know how they went 'way wid them pullets? They tie two on behind, in de rings
of de saddle. Then they tie two pullets together and hang them on de saddle pommel, one on
each side of de hosses neck. Dat throw them flankin' de hosses withers. I 'members now them
gallopin' off, wid them chickens flutterin' and hollerin' whare, whare, whare, whare, whare!

"After slavery time, us live on de Turner place nigh onto thirty years and then was de time
I go to see Rosa and court and marry her. Her folks b'long to de Lemmons and they had stayed
on at de Lemmon's place. De white folks of both plantations 'courage us to have a big weddin'.
Her white folks give her a trousseau and mine give me a bedstead, cotton mattress, and two
feather pillows. Dat was a mighty happy day and a mighty happy night for de 'Rose of Sharon'.
Her tells young niggers 'bout it to dis day, and I just sets and smokes my pipe and thinks
of all de days dat am passed and gone and wonder if de nex' world gwine to bring us back to
youth and strength to 'joy it, as us did when Rose and me was young.

"Does I 'members anything 'bout patrollers? 'Deed, I do! Marster didn't 'ject to his slaves
gwine to see women off de place. I hear him say so, and I hear him tell more than once dat
if he ever hear de patrollers a comin' wid blood hounds, to run to de lot and stick his foots
in de mud and de dogs wouldn't follow him. Lots of run'ways tried it, I heard, and it proved
a success and I don't blame them dogs neither."

  Project #1655
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  JESSE DAVIS
  EX-SLAVE 85 YEARS OLD.

Jesse Davis, one of the fast disappearing landmarks of slavery times, lives with his wife and
son, in one of the ordinary two-room frame houses that dot, with painful monotony, the country
farms of white landowners. The three attempt to carry on a one-horse farm of forty acres, about
thirty acres in cotton and the remainder in corn. The standard of living is low. Jesse is cheerful,
his wife optimistic with the expression that the Lord will provide, and their son dutiful and
hopeful of the harvest. Their home is about ten miles southwest of Winnsboro, in the Horeb
section of Fairfield County.

"Dere is some difficulty 'bout my age. Nigh as I can place it, I was born befo' de Civil War.
I 'members 'tendin' to and milkin' de cows, and keepin' de calf off, drawin' water out de well,
and bringin' in wood to make fires. I 'spects I's eighty-five, mountin' up in years.

"I lives on Mr. Eber Mason's place wid one of my chillun, a son name Mingo. Us all work on
de place; run a farm on shares. I can't do much work and can't support myself. It's mighty
hard to be 'pendent on others for your daily rations, even if them others is your own bone
and flesh. I'd 'preciate sumpin' to help my son and wife carry on. Dats why I wants a pension.
Do you 'spect God in His mercy will hear de prayer of dis feeble old believer? I don't beg
people but de Bible give me a right to beg God for my daily bread. De Good Book say: 'Take
no consarnment 'bout your raiment'. You can see from what I's got on, dat me nor nobody else,
is much consarned 'bout dis raiment.

"My mammy b'long to de Smiths. My master was Dr. Ira Smith. My mistress was him wife, Miss
Sarah. Deir chillun was: Marse Gad, Marse Jim, and Marse Billie. Marse Jim was de baker of
dis town all his life, after de way of old-time oven-cookin', 'til Boy bread and Claussen bread
wagons run him out of business. Him is now on de 'lief roll and livin' in de old McCreight
house, de oldest house in Winnsboro.

"Dere was my young misses, Miss Lizzie and Miss Lennie. My mammy name Sarah, just lak old mistress
name Sarah. Her b'long to marster and mistress but my pappy no b'long to them. Him b'long to
de big bugs, de Davis family. Him was name Mingo, and after slavery him and all us take de
name, de secon' name, Davis, and I's here today, Jesse Davis. See how dat work out to de name?
Good Book again say: 'Good name better than riches; sweeter to de ear than honey-comb to de
tongue.'

"You is well 'quainted wid Marse Amos Davis, ain't you? Well, his people was pappy's people.
I had a brudder name Gabriel, tho' they called him Gabe. Another one name Chap; he got kilt
while clearin' up a new ground. Sister Fannie marry a Ashford nigger. Marse Ira, de doctor,
have a plantation near Jenkinsville, S. C.

"When de Yankees come thru, they come befo' de main army. They gallop right up, jump down and
say: 'Hold dese hosses! Open dat smoke-house door!' They took what they could carry 'way. 'Bout
dat time marster rode up from a sick call him been 'tendin' to. Course you know him was a doctor.
They surround him, take his watch, money, and hoss, and ride 'way.

"De main army come nex' day, Saturday mornin' 'bout 8 o'clock. They spread deir tents and stay
and camp 'til Monday mornin'. When they leave they carry off all de cows, hogs, mules, and
hosses. Then they have us ketch de chickens, got them all, 'cept one old hen dat run under
de house, and they didn't wait to git her. Marster have to go 'way up to Union County, where
him have kin folks, to git sumpin' to eat.

"My marster was not big rich lak de Davises, de Means, and de Harpers, but him have all them
people come to see him. Him know a heap of things dat they 'preciate. De way to dye cloth was
one of dese secrets. Marster have a madder bed. Him take de roots of dat madder put them in
de sun just lak you put out pieces of apples and peaches to make dried fruit. When them roots
git right dry, him have them ground up fine as water-ground meal. He put de fine dust in a
pot and boil it. When he want red cloth, he just drop de cloth in dat pot and it come out all
red to suit you. Want it blue, him have a indigo patch for dat.

"I never hear anything 'bout alum dese days. Well, de slaves could take peach tree leaves and
alum and make yellow cloth and old cedar tops and copperas and make tan cloth. Walnut stain
and copperas and make any cloth brown. Sweet-gum bark and copperas and make any cloth a purple
color. I 'member goin' wid one into de woods to git barks. One day old marster come 'cross
a slippery elm tree. Him turn and command me to say right fast: 'Long, slim, slick saplin'
and when I say long, slim, sick slaplin', him 'most kill hisself laughin'. You try dat now!
You find it more harder to say than you think it is. Him give me a piece of dat bark to chew
and I run at de mouth lak you see a hoss dat been on de range of wild clover all night and
slobberin' at da bits.

"Yes sah, I b'longs to de church! My wife and son, Mingo, just us three in de house and de
whole household jined de Morris Creek Baptist Church. What's my favorite song? None better
than de one dat I'll h'ist right now. Go ahead? I thanks you. Listen:

  'Am I born to die
  To lay dis body down
  A charge to keep I have
  A God to glorify.'

"You lak dat? Yes? You is praisin' me too highly I 'spect, but since you lak dat one just listen
at dis one; maybe you change your mind, 'cause I's gwine to h'ist it a wee bit higher and put
more of de spiritual in it. Ready? Yes? I stand up dis time.

  'All de medicine you may buy
  All de doctors you may try
  Ain't gonna save you from de tomb
  Some day you got to lay down and die.
  De blood of de Son can only
  Save you from de doom!
  Some day you got to lay down and die.'

"You lak dat one? You just ought to hear my wife, Mingo, and Me, singin' dat 'round de fire
befo' us go to bed.

"Well, I'll toddle 'long now. Good-bye." Behind the front door stands a gayly colored iron
bed, over which is thrown a piece of oilcloth to keep the rain from leaking on it. In the center
of the room are several little quaint home-made stools and two broken rockers, while in one
corner sits a roughly finished kitchen table, the dumping place of all small articles. Still
in another corner, almost hidden from sight in the darkness, is the dim outline of an old trunk
gaping open with worn out clothing, possibly the gift of some white person. A big fireplace
in one side of the wall not only furnishes heat for the little room, but also serves as a cooking
place for Lizzie to prepare her meals. On its hearth sits a large iron kettle, spider, and
griddle, relics of an earlier day. The room is dimly lighted by the fire and from two small
doors, together with a few tiny streaks that peep through at various cracks in the walls and
top of house.

It is about 9 o'clock on a cold, drizzly morning in January, 1938. The little two room house,
in which Lizzie rents one room for herself, displays an appearance of extreme coldness and
dilapidation, as a visitor approaches the doorway on this particular morning. It is with somewhat
of an effort that the visitor finally reaches the barred door of Lizzie's room, after making
a skip here and there to keep from falling through the broken places in the little porch and
at the same time trying to dodge the continual dripping of the rain through numerous crevices
in the porch roof. Within is the sound of little feet scuffling about on the floor, the chatter
of tiny children mixed with mumblings from Lizzie, and the noise of chairs and stools being
roughly shoved about on the floor.

A rap on the door brings Lizzie, crippled up since she was twelve years of age, hobbling to
the door. Taking her walking stick, she lifts the latch gently and the door opens slightly.
A gray head appears through the crack of the door and Lizzie, peeping out from above her tiny
rim spectacles, immediately recognizes her visitor. She offers her usual cheerful greeting
and begins hastily to push the large wooden tubs from the door to make room for her visitor
to enter, though it is with unusual hesitancy that she invites her guest to come in on this
occasion.

Lizzie--Come in, Miss Davis. I feelin right smart dis mornin. How you been keepin yourself?
Miss Davis, I regrets you have to find things so nasty up in here dis mornin, but all dis rainy
weather got me obliged to keep dese old tubs settin all bout de floor here to try en catch
up de water what drips through dem holes up dere. See, you twist your head up dat way en you
can tell daylight through all dem cracks. Dat how I know when it bright enough to start to
stir myself on a mornin.

Yes'um, I tell Miss Heddie here de other day dat I had promise you I was gwine study up some
of dem old time songs to give you de next time you come back. Miss Heddie, she lookin to a
right sharp age, I say. Yes'um, she been here a time, honey. I tell her to be gettin her dogs
together cause I was sho gwine point her out to you de next time I see you.

I tell you, Miss Davis, I got a 'sponsibility put on me here to look after all dese chillun.
Yes'um, it sho a 'sponsibility cause I think dere five of dem dere, en it de truth in de Lord
sight, dey has me settin up so straight to keep a eye on dem dat I can' never settle my mind
on nothin. Dey won' let me keep nothin clean. Ain' no use to scrub none, I say. You see, cripple
up like I is, I ain' able to get no work off nowhe' en I keeps dem while dey parents work out.
Dey mammas have a job to cook out en dey brings dem here bout 6 o'clock in de mornin for me
to see after till dey get home in de afternoon. Cose dey helps me along, but it takes what
little dey give me to keep dem chillun warm cause I has to try en keep a fire gwine, dey be
so little. Dere Bertha Lee en Joseph, dey start gwine to school dis year en I has to see dey
gets fix decent en march dem off to school every mornin. Dem other three dere, dey name: Possum
en June en Alfred. Ain' but just one girl en dat--

(Lizzie's attention turns to June, who comes in crying from the back yard, where all the children
went to play during Lizzie's conversation with her visitor).

Lizzie--What de matter wid you, June?

June--Aun' Izzie, Possum knock me wid de ax.

Lizzie--Great King! What a peculiar thing to hit you wid. How-come he to do dat?

June--He was bustin up dem stick out dere side de wood pile.

Lizzie--Oh, well, you just go en butt up on de ax. Dat ain' no fault of he own den. Clean up
dat face en gwine on way from here.

(June, crying to himself, remains seated on the little stool).

Lizzie--Let me see now, Miss Davis, I tryin to get some of dem old time songs together to turn
for you what you been axin me bout de other time you come here. Yes'um, I tryin to blow my dogs--

(Possum enters the room).

Possum--Aun' Izzie, I was bustin up dem splinters dat my daddy brung for you to cook wid en
June come en set right under de ax.

Lizzie--Um-huh, ain' I tell you so? Whe' de ax, Possum? Fetch it here en put it in de corner.
Ain' none of you had no business wid dat ax nohow. Ain' I tell you to mind your way round dat ax?

(Possum runs back out in the yard).

Lizzie--Like I tellin you, Miss Davis, if de people had a song in de old days, dey would put
it down on a long strip called a ballad, but honey, I been through de hackles en I can' think
of nothin like I used to could. Is anybody sing dis one for you, Miss Davis? It a old one,
too, cause I used to hear--

(Alfred comes in to tell his tale).

Alfred--Aun' Izzie, June set on Possum's pile of splinters dat he was makin en Possum let de
ax fall right on June's head.

Lizzie--Dey is cases, Miss Davis. I tellin you, dese chillun just gets everything off my mind.
Most makes me forget to eat sometimes. Dere Miss Julia Woodberry, poor creature, she been down
mighty sick en I ain' been able to go en see bout her no time. Don' know what ailin her cause
I don' gets bout nowhe' much. No, mam, dese chillun don' have no manners to go visitin en I
can' left dem here widout nobody to mind bout dat dey don' run--

Joseph--Aun' Izzie, I ain' gwine wear no coat to school dis mornin.

Lizzie--Boy, is you crazy? What de matter wid you, ain' you know de ground been white wid Jack
Frost dis mornin? En you clean up dat nose fore you get dere to school, too. You ain' say your
ma send you here widout no pocket rag to wipe your nose wid? You ma, she know better den to
'spect me to hunt rags for you. Come here en let me fasten up dat coat round de neck. You look
like a turkey buzzard wid it gapin open dat way. Whe' Bertha Lee? It time both you been in
dat road gwine to school dere.

(Bertha Lee and Joseph go out the door to leave for school).

Lizzie--Lord a mercy, Miss Davis, my mind just a windin. How dat song turn what I had for you?

  One for Paul,
  En one for Sidas--

Lizzie--Joseph, how-come you ain' tell dese chillun good-bye?

Joseph--Good-bye Possum, good-bye June, good-bye Alfred.

Possum, June, Alfred--Good-bye Joseph.

Lizzie--Is you got dat one now, Miss Davis? What de next? Great Jeruselum! Dem chillun done
carry dat tune way wid dem. I can' turn dat one to save my neck. Just can' come to de turn
table as de old man would say. (12 o'clock mill whistle blows, time teller for many colored
people of the community). Lord a mercy, what dat whistle say? It done come 12 o'clock en dat
pot ain' thought bout to kick up none yet. I tell you, honey, it sho a 'sponsibility I got
put on me here to cook for all dese chillun en see dey ration is cook mighty done, too, so
as dey won' be gwine round gruntin wid dey belly hurtin all de evenin.

(Lizzie begins to stir up the fire to make the pot boil and her visitor decides to return later
to hear the songs).

  Date, February 7, 1938

II

It is a damp, chilly mornin about three weeks later, when Lizzie's visitor returns to hear
her sing old time songs. June, Bertha Lee, and Alfred are playing in the street before the
little house.

Visitor--Is Aun' Lizzie at home?

June, Alfred, Bertha Lee--Yes'um, she in dere. She in de house.

Visitor--You children better mind how you run about in all this damp weather, it might make
you sick.

June--Possum's got de chicken pox.

Alfred--Possum's got de chicken pox.

June--Me sick, too.

Bertha Lee--I got a cold.

Alfred--I sick, too.

Visitor--Poor little Possum. Is he sick much?

Alfred--Yes'um, he stay right in dat room dere. (Room next to Lizzie's room with a separate
front door).

Bertha Lee--He mamma had de chicken pox first en den Possum, he took down wid it.

June--Dere he now! Dere Possum! (Possum appears from around the corner of the house with both
hands full of cold fish).

(Alfred goes to Lizzie's door to tell her that she has a visitor)

Alfred--Aun' Izzie, somebody out dere wanna see you.

Lizzie--Holy Moses! Who dat out dere? Boy, you ain' tellin me no story, is you? Mind you now,
you tell me a story en I'll whip de grease out you.

Bertha Lee--Aun' Izzie, ain' nobody but Miss Davis out dere.

(Lizzie hobbles to the door on her stick).

Lizzie--How you is, Miss Davis? I ain' much to speak bout dis mornin. I tell you de truth,
Miss Davis, dese chillun keeps me so worried up dat I don' know whe' half my knowin gone, I
say. Great Lord a mercy, dere Possum out dere in de air now en he been puny, too.

Visitor--The children tell me Possum has the chicken pox.

Lizzie--No'um, he ain' got no chicken pox, Miss Davis. Dey thought he had it cause he mamma
been ailin dat way, but I don' see nothin de matter wid him 'cept what wrong wid he mouth.
Possum, stand back dere way from Miss Davis, I say. Yes'um, he been sorta puny like dis here
last week. He mamma must been feed him too much en broke he mouth out dat--

June--Miss Davis, I know how to spell my name.

Bertha Lee--I know how to spell my name, too. Me likes to go to school.

Visitor--Oh, I think it is nice to like to go to school. What do you do at school?

June--Pull off your hat.

Bertha Lee--Us writes.

Visitor--Lizzie, how about those old time songs you promised to study up for me? You ought
to have a mind running over with them by this time.

Lizzie--Lord, Lord, honey, I had study up a heap of dem old tunes here de other day, but I
tellin you de truth, Miss Davis, dese chillun got me so crazy till nothin won stick--

(Willie, age 10, comes over to play with the children and begins to whistle.).

Lizzie--Willie, ain' you know it ill manners to whistle in anybody house? Dere now, it impolite
to walk by anybody house whistlin, too. You is too big a boy for dat. Ain' gwine stand for
you learnin dese chillun no such manners for me to beat it out dem. No, boy, mind yourself
way from here now, I got to hunt up dat tune for Miss Davis. Yes'um, I got one of dem old tune
poppin now. Let me see--Great Happy! Dat pot done gwine out all my sparks. (Lizzie rushes in
the house to look after a pot that she hears boilin over on the fire).

June--Bertha Lee, de lady don' know whe' us sleeps, do she?

Bertha Lee--Dere us house over dere.

(Bertha Lee gets up to point the house out and June immediately slides into her seat on the
bench next to the visitor).

Bertha Lee--Move way, June.

June--No, dis place whe' I been.

Bertha Lee--June, go further, I say.

June--No, Bertha Lee, dis whe' I been.

Bertha Lee--No, go further. (June holds his place) I go tell Aun' Izzie den.

Visitor--Tell Lizzie I'm waitin to hear that tune she promised to sing.

Bertha Lee--Aun' Izzie, June settin in my place.

Lizzie--Fetch yourself on back out dere now, Bertha Lee, en settle your own scrap. Ain' you
shame of yourself en you bigger den June, too? Go way from here, I say. I ain' got no time
to monkey up wid you. I got to get dese collards boilin hard, else dey ain' gwine get done
time you chillun start puffin for your dinner. Go way, I tell you. Miss Davis, I comin toreckly.

(Bertha Lee returns to the porch quietly and takes her place on the opposite side of the visitor,
while June clings to his place).

June--Miss Davis, does you know Mr. Rembert?

Visitor--Is he your father?

Bertha Lee and June--No, he ain' us daddy.

June--Mr. Rembert, he bought me everything I got. He shoe horses. Don' you know him now?

Bertha Lee--He bought June's sweater, but dem my overalls he got on.

June--Dem dere pretty buttons you got on you, Miss Davis.

Bertha Lee--Sho is, en dem little chain dere.

June--Me got a sweater just like her coat.

Bertha Lee--Ain' just like it.

June--It most like it.

Bertha Lee--No, it ain' cause dis here wool.

(Lizzie returns to the porch and sits on a little stool near her door).

Lizzie--Lord, Miss Davis, dat tune done left me. Now, de next time dat I get a tune in my mind.
I gwine sho get somebody to place it for me. It de Lord truth, my mind gwine just so wid so
much of chillun worryations till--

June--Me can sing.

Possum--Aun' Izzie, I ain' got nothin to eat.

(Lizzie returns to her room again to stir up the fire and get Possum some bread).

Bertha Lee--Sing den, June.

June--Un-uh, I can'. Aun' Izzie might hear me.

Bertha Lee--I gwine sing den.

(Lizzie and Possum return to porch. Possum has three muffins).

Lizzie--Clean up your nose dere, Alfred. Miss Davis, I ready. Sho got a mind to turn dat tune
dis----

Alfred--Possum wouldn' fetch me no bread, Aun' Izzie.

Lizzie--Dere dey go again, Miss Davis. No, you can' have none of Possum's bread. Gwine on in
dere en catch you a piece out your own pan. You eat up Possum's bread en den he'll be de one
howlin bout he ain' got none.

(Alfred goes in the room and comes back with a biscuit).

Lizzie--I pretty certain I ready now, Miss Davis. Let dem all get dey belly full en den dey
head won' be turnin so sharp. Dat how-come I tries--

Possum--Aun' Izzie, Alfred eatin June's bread.

Lizzie--Alfred, look here, boy, you know dat ain' none of your bread. You sho gwine get a lickin
for dat. (Lizzie slaps him). Your ma, she ain' never left nothin but corn hoecake in your pan
since you been born en you know dat, too. Dem chillun carries me in de clock sometimes, Miss
Davis. Dis one en dat one callin me en de Lord help me, I forgets what I doin--Clean up dat
nose dere, boy.

June--My nose clean.

Lizzie--Possum know I talkin to him. Get on in dere en tell Miss Mammie to give you a pocket
rag, Possum. (Miss Mammie is Possum's aunt who came to spend the day with them).

Bertha Lee--

  "Peter Rabbit, Ha! Ha! Ha!
  Make Your Ears Go, Flop! Flop! Flop!"

Lizzie--I has to ax you to bear wid me, Miss Davis. I sorry you come here on a dead shot en
ain' gettin no birds. Lord knows, I tryin to get my mind--

June--Oo, Aun' Izzie, Joseph been cuttin out Willie's book.

(Lizzie's attention is attracted to Willie, who looks worried about his torn book.)

Lizzie--Great mercy, boy, you ought to have a pain in de chest. Look, you settin dere wid your
bosom wide open. Fasten up your neck dere, I say.--Possum, come here, is you do like I tell
you? Is you ax Miss Mammie for somethin to clean up dat nose wid?

Possum--Yes'um.

Lizzie--Look out now, I'll whip you for tellin a story. Whe' de rag? No, you ain' ax her neither.
Gwine on en clean up dat nose fore I wear you out.

(Possum goes around corner of house).

Lizzie--Help me Lord not to forget it dis time. I sho got dat tune----

June--Aun' Izzie, Aun' Izzie, Possum fall in de tub of water what settin under de pump.

(Possum appears from around the corner of the house just at that moment drenched and almost
frozen).

Lizzie--Great Lord a mercy! Possum, you looks like a drowned possum sho enough. Why ain' you
do like I tell you to do? You know I don' never allow you chillun ramblin round dat pump tub
no time. Ain' nobody want to drink out no tub you wash your snotty nose in. Fetch yourself
in dere to de fire en dry yourself fore you is catch a death of cold. Gwine on, boy. Don' stand
dere en watch me like a frizzle chicken. Dere Mr. John Fortune comin now. I gwine tell him
to catch Possum en cook him up.

Possum--I gwine run.

Lizzie--You say you gwine run?

Possum--No'um, I ain' say I gwine run.

Lizzie--Mind you now, Possum, you know what I tell you bout a story-teller.

Mammie--Miss Lizzie, I just don' believe he know right from wrong.

Lizzie--Well, I gwine learn him den. Ain' nothin I despises worser den a story-teller. (Lizzie
slaps Possum on the shoulder several times and sends him in the house to dry, shivering from
both cold and fear.).

Lizzie--Miss Davis, Mr. John Fortune helps me out wonderfully wid dese chillun. Say, when dey
bad, he gwine cook dem up en eat dem. Yes, mam, I tellin de truth, honey, dese chillun keeps
me settin here listenin wid all my ears en lookin wid all my eyes, but dey is right sorta entertainin
like. Yes'um, dey got so much of sense till dey done took what little I is had.

(Alfred comes running in and leans up on Lizzie).

Lizzie--Clean up dat snotty nose, Alfred. You ought to been name Snotty wid your mouth all
de time lookin like you ain' hear tell of no pocket rag. Move way from dere, June. Don' blow
your nose settin side Miss Davis.

  Date, February 10, 1938

III

It is three days later. Lizzie is sitting on her little porch enjoying the warm sunshine of
a bright February day. The children have gone just across the street to play on the sidewalk
and while Lizzie keeps a watchful eye on them, she is trying once more to call back to her
mind some of the old time songs that she used to sing in her early days. Her visitor sits on
a bench nearby ready to make notes of these old songs as she sings them. Lizzie's attention
is not only distracted by the children at intervals but also by different ones of her friends
constantly passing along the street in front of the small home.

Lizzie--Lord, Miss Davis, look like everything a hustlin dis mornin. Yes'um, dis here Monday
mornin en everybody is a bustlin gwine to see bout dey business. Seems like everything just
gwine on, just gwine on. I tell you de truth, Miss Davis, I studied so hard bout dem songs
de other night, I beg de Massa to show me de light en he hop me to recollect dis one for you.
See, when you gets to de age I is, you is foolish--

(Joseph runs across the street to tell Lizzie something).

Joseph--Aun' Izzie, Possum teachin June to hit Jerry.

Lizzie--Uh-huh, I gwine sho beat him, too. (Lizzie turns to her visitor) Possum, he teachin
June to knock dat little one wid de speckle coat on.

Visitor--Is he another child that you are taking care of?

Lizzie--No'um, he grandma raise him en de poor little creature, he don' have nobody to play
wid. Look like nobody don' care when he come or whe' he go. I say, I tries to collect mine
up en take care of dem cause it dis way, if you don' take time en learn chillun, dey old en
dey ain' old; dey fool en dey ain' fool. Yes'um, I tryin to drill dem, Miss Davis, but it does
take time en a little whip, too. Has to punish dem right smart sometimes. I tellin you, dem
chillun sho a 'sponsibility. Dem what put all dem gray hair up dere on my topknot. I tell dis
one en dat one to set to a certain place till I say to get up en den I'll get my studyin on
somethin else en de child, he'll be out yonder--

(Heddie Davis, age 72, a neighbor of Lizzies, comes over to join in the conversation).

Lizzie--Here come de hoss (horse). Come in, Miss Heddie. Miss Davis wants us to sing one of
dem old back tunes dis mornin.

Heddie--Well, I is studied up one tune what I been hear de old people sing when I wasn' nothin
much more den a puppy--Lord a mercy, Miss Lizzie, dere dem people comin from de trial. Look,
dere dey fetchin dat girl to Dr. Graham now. En my Lord, got de poor child's head all wrapped
up dat way. Dat man, he ought to have he head plucked. He know better den to cut dat child
so close de senses. Don' know what de matter wid de people nohow.

Lizzie--Ain' nothin but de devil, Miss--

(Boy, about 8 years old, comes across the street and hands Lizzie a bundle).

Pickle--Miss Lizzie, ma say dere your sewin.

Lizzie--Thank you, son, thank you a thousand times again. Tell your mamma de old hen a scratchin
bout out dere in de yard now huntin de nest en ain' gwine be no long time fore I can be catchin
her a chicken to put in de pot. Yes, Lord, I got to start savin dem egg dis very day for de
settin. (Lizzie turns to her visitor on the porch and continues her conversation). Miss Rosa,
she does do all my sewin for me en I generally gives her eggs for her kindness. I sorry dere
so much of huntin egg de same day.

(Little boy, Pickle, looks disappointed and continues to hang around).

Bertha Lee--Aun' Izzie, sing somethin.

Lizzie--You want me to sing so bad, sugar, en I ain' know nothin neither. Heddie, turn me one.

Heddie--Gwine on en spill dat one yourself what you been tell me bout de other mornin en quit
your pickin on me.

Lizzie--Well, I tryin to get myself together, but dere so much of travelin en so much of chillun,
I can' collect--

Alfred--Aun' Izzie, can I go to whe' Jerry gone?

Lizzie--No, boy, you know I ain' got no mind to let you go runnin off dat way. (Lizzie calls
to Mammie in the room). Mammie, look dere to de clock. I gettin in a fidget to get some of
dese chillun way from here.

(Pickle still hangs around).

Lizzie--Joseph, come here.

Joseph--Un-uh.

Lizzie--Boy, don' you grunt at me dat way. Come here, I say. Go dere in de chicken house en
hunt dat one egg en give it to Pickle to carry to he mamma.--Got to scatter dese chillun way
from here--

Joseph--Here de egg, Aun' Izzie.

Lizzie--Fetch it dere to Pickle den. Boy, tell your mamma I sorry I ain' had no egg to send
her 'cept just dat one nest egg. Tell her, when she buss dat egg, she better look right sharp
en see is de hen ain' got it noways addle like cause--

Bertha Lee--Aun' Izzie, how my nose is?

Lizzie--Look bad. Gwine on in dere en clean your face up. I know you ain' gwine to school wid
all dem crumbs stuck bout on your mouth. Joseph, gwine on in de house dere en put you on some
more clothes. Gwine on in dere, I say. Don' stand dere on de street en strip.

Heddie--No, boy, don' pull off in no public.

Bertha Lee--Aun' Izzie, I gwine carry my bread to school wid me.

Lizzie--Hunt you a paper den. You can' go dere to school wid no handful of bread makin all
dem chillun start mouthin round you. Joseph, get me a paper to put dis here child's bread in.

Joseph--Here, Bertha Lee. Here de paper.

Lizzie--Lord, Miss Davis, it a time. I tell you de truth, honey, dis here 'sponsibility got
me tied both hand en foot. Ain' no rest nowhe'. I hates it you come here en ain' gettin nothin
what you been aimin to catch. I gwine be ready toreckly though. Let me get dese chillun in
de road en dem songs gwine start travelin out my head faster den lightnin--

Bertha Lee--Aun' Izzie, make Joseph come on.

Lizzie--Joseph, get in dat road dere side Bertha Lee. Now, you chillun make your tracks dere
to school straight as you can go en if you stop dere to dat lady house en get a pecan, I gwine
whip you hard as I can.

Lizzie--Here dat tune come buzzin now, Miss Davis. Is you got dis one?

  Sunday Mornin Band!

  "Oh, my sister,
  How you walk on de cross?
  Sunday mornin band!
  Oh, your feet might slip
  En your soul get lost.
  Sunday mornin band!
  Oh, what band,
  Oh, what band,
  Do you belong?
  What band! What band!
  Sunday mornin band!"

Heddie--Sis, you is done took de one I been how. I been expectin you was comin out wid one
of dem old time reels you used to be a singin en a jiggin bout all de time.

Lizzie--Oh, I been know a heap of dem reels. Hoped sing dem behind de old folks back many a
day cause us chillun wasn' never allowed to sing reels in dem days. See, old back people was
more religious den dey is now. Yes, mam, dey been know what spell somethin in dat day en time.
When dey would speak den, dey meant somethin, I tell you. People does just go through de motion
dese days en don' have no mind to mean what dey talk. No, child, us didn' dar'sen to let us
parents hear us sing no reels den. What dem old people didn' quarrel out us, dey whip out us.
My father never wouldn' let we chillun go to no frolics, but us would listen from de house
en catch what us could. I used to could turn a heap of dem reels, too, but he was so tight
on us till everything bout left me. Lord, Heddie, give me a thought. You is de jiggin hoss.
Hope me out, Heddie, hope me out.

(Heddie begins song and Lizzie joins in and finishes it).

  "The blackest nigger I ever did see,
  He come a runnin down from Tennessee,
  His eye was red en his gum was blue,
  En God a mighty struck him,
  En his shirt tail flew.
  Meet me at de crossroads,
  For I'm gwine join de band.
  Um-huh! Um-huh! Um-huh!"

Lizzie--Great Lord a mercy, Miss Davis, dem kind of tune, dem sinful en wicked songs, dey what
I used to turn fore I been big enough to know what been in dem. No, honey, I thank de good
Lord to point me way from all dat foolishness en wickedness en I ain' gwine back to it neither.

  "Lord, I know dat my time ain' long,
  Oh, de bells keep a ringin,
  Somebody is a dying,
  Lord, I know dat my time ain' long.
    (Repeat three times)
  Lord, I know dat my time ain' long,
  Oh, de hammer keep a knockin,
  Keep a knockin on somebody coffin,
  Lord, I know dat my time ain' long."
    (Repeat three times).

Lizzie--Lord, I sho know my time ain' long. De Lord say de way of de righteous prevaileth to
eternal life en I know I right, people. Lord, I know I right. 'Sponsibility or no 'sponsibility,
Lord, I seekin de Kingdom. Cose I don' remember myself, say, slavery time, but I can tell dat
what I is hear de olden people talk bout been gwine on in dat day en time. No, mam, I want
to suggest to you de best I can cause I might have to go back up yonder en tell it to be justified
some of dese days."

"Oh, I been know your father en your grandfather en all of dem. Bless mercy, child, I don'
want to tell you nothin, but what to please you. Lord, I glad to see your face. It look so
lovin en pleasin, just so as I is always know you. Look like dere not a wave of trouble is
ever roll 'cross your peaceful bosom."

"Now, like I speak to you, I don' know rightly bout my age, but I can tell you when dat shake
come here, I been a missie girl. Oh, my Lord, I been just as proud en crazy in dem days. Wasn'
thinkin nothin bout dat dese dark days was headin here. Yes, mam, I is always been afflicted
ever since I been twelve years old, so dey tell me. You see, dat muscle right back dere in
my foot, it grow crooked just like a hook. De doctor, he say dat if dey had kept me movin bout,
it wouldn' been grow dat way. But my poor old mammy, she die while us was livin down dere to
old man Foster Brown's plantation en dere won' no other hand gwine trouble dey way no time
to lift me up. Oh, my mammy, she been name Katie Brown cause my parents, dey belonged to de
old man Foster Brown in dey slavery day. Dat how-come I been raise up a country child dere
on Mr. Brown's plantation. Another thing, like as you might be a noticin, I ain' never been
married neither. No, mam, I ain' never been married cause I is always been use a stick in walkin
in my early days en never didn' nobody want me. Yes, mam, I know I every bit of 70 or gwine
on 80 years old to my mind en I think it a blessin de Lord preserve me dis long to de world.
Cose I often wonders why de good Massa keep me here en take dem what able to work for demselves."

"Yes, honey, wid God harness on me, I come here to dis town a grown woman to live en I been
livin right here by myself in dis same house near bout 20 years. Cose dere a little 12-year-old
country girl dat stays here wid me while de school be gwine on so as to get some learnin. Yes'um,
I pays $2.00 every month for dis here room en it ain' worth nothin to speak bout. Pap Scott's
daughter stay in dat other room over dere. No, mam, dere ain' but just dese two rooms to de
house. You, see, my buildin does leak en I has a big time some of dese days. See here, child,
I has dis piece of oilcloth cross my bed en when it rains on a night, I sleeps in dat chair
over dere en lets it drop on de oilcloth. Den when it comes a storm, my Lord, dere such a racket!
I be settin here lookin for dat top up dere to be tumblin down on me de next crack en seems
like it does give me such a misery in my head. Yes, mam, dat misery does strike me every time
I hear tell bout dere a darkness in de cloud."

"Well, drawed up as I is, I ain' able to get no work worth much to speak bout dese days. It
dis way, child, don' nobody like to see no old ugly crooked up creature like me round bout
whe' dey be no time. Cose I sets here en does a washin now en den whe' de people gets push
up, but don' get no regular work. Now, dem people over dere, I does dey washin mostly, but
dey don' never be noways particular en stylish like en I don' have nothin much to worry wid.
See, de lady, she don' go bout nowhe' much."

"Oh, Lord, dere my stove right dere, I say. Yes, mam, I cooks right here in de fireplace all
de time. I got dat pot on dere wid some turnips a boilin now en it gettin on bout time I be
mixin up dat bread, too, fore dat child be comin home from school hungry as a louse. I say,
I got dis here old black iron spider en dis here iron griddle, too, what I does my bakin on
cause you see, I come from way back yonder. Dem what de olden people used to cook on fore stoves
ever been come here. Yes, mam, de spider got three legs dat it sets on en de griddle, dat what
I makes dese little thin kind of hoecake on. See, when I wants to bake in de spider, I heaps
my coals up in a pile dat way so as to set de spider on dem en pours de batter in de spider
en puts de lid on. Den I rakes me up another batch of coals en covers de lid over wid dem.
Do dat to make it get done on de top. Yes, mam, dat de kind of a spider dat de people used
to cook dey cake in. Now, when I has a mind to cook some turnips or some collards, I makes
dis here boil bread. Honey, dat somethin to talk bout eatin wid dem turnips. Ain' no trouble
to mind it neither. First, I just washes my hands right clean like en takes en mixes up my
meal en water together wid my hand till I gets a right stiff dough. Den I pinches off a piece
de dough bout big as a goose egg en flattens it out wid my hand en drops it in de pot wid de
greens. Calls dat boil dumplings. I think bout I got a mind dat I gwine cook some of dem in
dat turnip pot directly, too. No, mam, I don' never eat dinner till it come bout time for de
little girl to be expectin to be from school. Oh, my blessed, dem olden people sho know how
to cook in dem days. Never didn' hear speak bout de cookin upsettin de people in dat day en
time like it sets de people in a misery dese days. Dat how-come, I say, I ain' noways ailin
in de inside cause it be dat I lives de olden way. Yes, child, de slavery people sho had de
hand to cook. Dere ain' never been nothin cook nowhe' dat could satisfy a cravin like dat ash
cake dat de people used to cook way back dere, I say. Oh, dey would mix up a batter just like
dey was gwine make a hoecake en wrap it all up in oak leaves or a piece of dis here heavy brown
paper en lay it in de hot ashes. Den dey would rake some more hot ashes all over de top of
it. Yes'um, de dampness out de hoecake would keep de wrappin wet en when it would get done,
de paper would peel right off it. I tell you, honey, I mighty glad I been come along in dat
day en time. Mighty thankful I been a child of de olden ways."

"Yes, child, de people what been raise de slavery way, dey been have a heap of curious notions
en some of dem was good, I say. Yes, mam, dere one sign dat I remembers bout en I follows dat
up right sharp dese days. I sho watches dat closely. Say, somebody have a mouthful of rations
en sneeze, it a sign of death. I finds dat to be very true to speak bout. Yes'um, I notices
dat a good one, Miss Davis."

"Den I got another one comin. Always say, when you see bout a dozen buzzards moesin (flying)
round a house en den dey break off en make a straight shoot for a graveyard, dere somebody
out dat house gwine be bury dere soon. Cose dat what I hear talk bout, but I ain' watched dat
so much."

"No, mam, dat ain' half de signs what de olden people used to have cause dat all what dey know
to tell dem what to do en what was gwine happen. Dem what was wise, dey followed dem signs
closely, too. Yes, you come back another time, child, en I'll see can I scratch up a heap of
dem other sign to tell you. When I gets to talkin to you bout old times, my mind, it just gets
to wanderin over dem old fields whe' I run bout as a little small child en I can' half remember
nothin to speak to you bout." Been come up on de old man Foster Brown's plantation. Ain' you
know whe' Mr. Foster Brown used to live? Yes, mam, down dere in dat grove of pecans dat you
see settin side de road, when you be gwine down next to Centenary. I remember, I hear my father
tell bout dat his mammy was sold right here to dis courthouse, on dat big public square up
dere, en say dat de man set her up in de wagon en took her to Georgetown wid him. Sold her
right dere on de block. Oh, I hear dem talkin bout de sellin block plenty times. Pa say, when
he see dem carry his mammy off from dere, it make he heart swell in his breast.

"Yes'um, I hear my father talk bout how dey would shoot de great big bomb guns in slavery time.
Seems like, he say dat de shootin fuss been come from Fort Sumter. Oh, my Lord, I hear talk
dat de people could hear dem guns roarin all bout dis here country. I know dat word been true
cause I hear my parents en de olden people speak bout dat right dere fore we chillun. Say,
when dey would feel dat rumblin noise, de people would be so scared. Didn' know what was gwine
happen. Cose I speak bout what I catch cause de olden people never didn' allow dey chillun
to set en hear dem talk no time. No, mam, de olden people was mighty careful of de words dey
let slip dey lips.

"Oh, we chillun would have de most fun dere ever was romancin (roaming) dem woods in dat day
en time. I used to think it was de nicest thing dat I been know bout to go down in de woods
side one of dem shady branch en get a cup of right cool water to drink out de stream. I tell
you, I thought dat was de sweetest water I is ever swallowed. Den we chillun used to go out
in de woods wid de crowd en get dese big oak leaves en hickory leaves en make hats. Would use
dese here long pine needles en thorns for de pins dat we would pick up somewhe' dere in de
woods. En we would dress de hats wid all kind of wild flowers en moss dat we been find scatter
bout in de woods, too. Oh, yes'um, we thought dey was de prettiest kind of bonnets. Den we
would get some of dese green saplin out de woods often times to make us a ridin horse wid en
would cut down a good size pine another time en make a flyin mare to ride on. Yes, mam, dat
what we would call it. Well, when we would have a mind to make one of dem flyin mare, we chillun
would slip a ax to de woods wid us en chop down a nice little pine tree, so as dere would be
a good big stump left in de ground. Den we would chisel de top of de stump down all round de
edges till we had us a right sharp peg settin up in de middle of de stump. After dat was fixed,
we would cut us another pole a little bit smaller den dat one en bore a hole in de middle of
it to make it set down on dat peg. Oh, my Lord, one of us chillun would get on dis end en dere
another one would get on de other end en us chillun would give dem a shove dat would send dem
flyin round fast as I could say mighty-me-a-life. My blessed a mercy, child, it would most
bout knock de sense out dem what been on dere. Yes, mam, everybody would be crazy to ride on
de flyin mare. All de neighbor's chillun would gather up en go in de woods en jump en shout
bout which one turn come to ride next. I tellin you, dem was big pleasures us had in dat day
en time en dey never cost nobody nothin neither."

"Well, Mr. Brown, he was mighty good to his colored people, so I hear my parents say. Would
allow all his niggers to go to de white people church to preachin every Sunday, Cose my father,
he was de carriage driver en he would have task to drive de white folks to church on a Sunday.
Yes'um, dem what been belong to Mr. Brown, dey had dey own benches to set on right up dere
in de gallery to de white people church, but I hear talk dat some of dem other white people
round bout dere never wouldn' let dey colored people see inside dey church no time. Lord, I
talk bout how de people bless wid privilege to go to church like dey want to in dis day en
time en don' have de mind to serve de Lord like dey ought to no time. Cose dere a man comes
here every Sunday mornin in a car en takes me out to church. Ain' no kin to me neither. He
late sometimes en de preacher be bout out wid de sermon, but I goes anyhow en gets all I can.
Look like de Lord bless me somehow, cripple up as I is, I say."

"De shake! Oh, I remember it well cause I been a grown girl den. Everybody thought it was de
Jedgment en all de people was runnin out en a hollerin. I thought it was de last myself en
I livin here to tell de people, I was sho scared. I been out to de well bout 12 o'clock de
next day en I could see de water in de well just a quiverin. Lord, Lord, dat water tremble
bout four weeks after dat. Such a hollerin en a prayin as de people had bout dat shake. No'um
I was livin down dere to Tabernacle den en dere wasn' none of de houses round us destroyed.
No, child, won' no harm done nowhe' dat I knows of only as a heap of de people been so scared,
dey never didn' grow no more."

"Yes'um, I think bout here de other night dat I had make you a promise to fetch you up some
of dem signs de olden people used to put faith in. Dere one sign bout if you hear a dog howl
or a cow low round your house on a night, it a pretty good sign you gwine lose somebody out
dat house. I finds dat to be a mighty true sign cause I notices it very closely."

"Den dey used to say, too, if you get up in de mornin feelin in a good humor, de devil sho
gwine get you fore night fall dat same day. Cose I don' pay so much attention to dat. If I
get up feelin like singin, I has to sing cause it my time to sing, I say."

"Let me see, dere another one of dem omen dat I had shake up in my mind to tell you. Say, if
you see a ground mole rootin round your house, it won' be long fore you gwine move from dat
place. But I don' never see no ground moles hardly dese days. Don' think dey worries nobody much."

"I recollects, too, way back yonder de people used to say, if you see de smoke comin out de
chimney en turn down en flatten out on de ground, it a sign of rain in a few days."

"Yes, mam, I think bout dis one more. If you dream bout you be travelin en come to a old rotten
down buildin, it a sign of a old person death. Don' say whe' it a man or a woman, but it a
sho sign dat a old person gwine die."

"Den people what lives in de country believes, if a fox comes round a house barkin en a scratchin,
it a sign dey gwine lose somebody out dey family. Yes'um, de fox just comes right out de woods
up to de yard en barks. You see, a dog won' never run a fox dat comes bout dem barkin. No,
mam, when de dog hear dat, he just stands right under de house en growls at de fox. I know
dat be a true sign cause us tried dat one."

"Now, I got another one of dem thought comin. Yes, my Lord, I hear talk dat if you get de broom
en sweep your house out fore sunrise, you would sweep your friends out right wid de trash.
Dat used to be a big sign wid de people, too. En it bad luck to take up ashes after de sun
go down, dey say. Yes, I know bout plenty people won' do dat today."

"Well, honey, seems like when I calls back, de people in a worser fix den when I used to get
25 cents a day. Used to could take dat en go to a country store en get a decent dress to wear
to church. Sell peck of us corn en get it in trade. Didn' never pay more den 50 cents for a
load of wood in dem days en I remembers just as good eggs been sell for 10 cents a dozen en
15 cents bout Christmas time. Cose I ain' exactly decided what to speak bout de times cause
it dis way to my mind. De people, dey have a better privilege dis day en time, but dey don'
appreciate nothin like dey did back in my dark days. Yes, mam, de people was more thankful
to man en God den dey is dese days. Dat my belief bout de way de world turnin, I say."

  Source: Lizzie Davis, colored, age between 70 and 80, Marion,
          S. C.
          Personal interview by Annie Ruth Davis, Dec., 1937.

  Project #1855
  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  LOUISA DAVIS
  EX-SLAVE 106 YEARS OLD.

"Well, well, well! You knows my white folks on Jackson Creek, up in Fairfield! I's mighty glad
of dat, and glad to see you. My white folks come to see me pretty often, though they lives
way up dere. You wants to write me up? Well, I'll tell you all I recollect, and what I don't
tell you, my daughter and de white folks can put in de other 'gredients. Take dis armchair
and git dat smokin' ash tray; lay it on de window sill by you and make yourself comfortable
and go ahead."

"I was born in de Catawba River section. My grandpappy was a full blood Indian; my pappy a
half Indian; my mother, coal black woman. Just who I b'long to when a baby? I'll leave dat
for de white folks to tell, but old Marster Jim Lemon buy us all; pappy, mammy, and three chillun:
Jake, Sophie, and me. De white folks I fust b'long to refuse to sell 'less Marse Jim buy de
whole family; dat was clever, wasn't it? Dis old Louisa must of come from good stock, all de
way 'long from de beginnin', and I is sho' proud of dat."

"When he buy us, Marse Jim take us to his place on Little River nigh clean cross de county.
In de course of time us fell to Marse Jim's son, John, and his wife, Miss Mary. I was a grown
woman then and nursed their fust baby, Marse Robert. I see dat baby grow to be a man and 'lected
to legislature, and stand up in dat Capitol over yonder cross de river and tell them de Law
and how they should act, I did. They say I was a pretty gal, then, face shiny lak a ginger
cake, and hair straight and black as a crow, and I ain't so bad to look at now, Marse Willie says."

"My pappy rise to be foreman on de place and was much trusted, but he plowed and worked just
de same, mammy say maybe harder."

"Then one springtime de flowers git be blooming, de hens to cackling, and de guineas to patarocking.
Sam come along when I was out in de yard wid de baby. He fust talk to de baby, and I asked
him if de baby wasn't pretty. He say, 'Yes, but not as pretty as you is, Louisa.' I looks at
Sam, and dat kind of foolishness wind up in a weddin'. De white folks allowed us to be married
on de back piazza, and Reverend Boggs performed de ceremony."

"My husband was a slave of de Sloans and didn't get to see me often as he wanted to; and of
course, as de housemaid then, dere was times I couldn't meet him, clandestine like he want
me. Us had some grief over dat, but he got a pass twice a week from his marster, Marse Tommie
Sloan, to come to see me. Bold as Sam git to be, in after years ridin' wid a red shirt long
side of General Bratton in '76, dat nigger was timid as a rabbit wid me when us fust git married.
Shucks, let's talk 'bout somthing else. Sam was a field hand and drive de wagon way to Charleston
once a year wid cotton, and always bring back something pretty for me."

"When de war come on, Sam went wid young Marster Tom Sloan as bodyguard, and attended to him,
and learned to steal chickens, geese, and turkeys for his young marster, just to tell 'bout
it. He dead now; and what I blames de white folks for, they never would give him a pension,
though he spend so much of his time and labor in their service. I ain't bearin' down on my
kind of white folks, for I'd jump wid joy if I could just git back into slavery and have de
same white folks to serve and be wid them, day in and day out."

"Once a week I see de farm hands git rations at de smoke house, but dat didn't concern me.
I was a housemaid and my mammy run de kitchen, and us got de same meals as my marster's folks did."

"Yas sir; I got 'possum. Know how to cook him now. Put him in a pot and parboil him, then put
him in a oven wid lots of lard or fat-back, and then bake him wid yaller yam potatoes, flanked
round and round, and then wash him down wid locust and persimmon beer followed by a piece of
pumpkin pie. Dat make de bestest meal I 'members in slavery days."

"Us got fish out of Little River nigh every Saturday, and they went good Sunday morning. Us
had Saturday evenin's, dat is, de farm hands did, and then I got to go to see Sam some Sundays.
His folks, de Sloans, give us a weddin' dinner on Sunday after us was married, and they sho'
did tease Sam dat day."

"Like all rich buckra, de Lemons had hogs a plenty, big flock of sheep, cotton gin, slaves
to card, slaves to spin, and slaves to weave. Us was well clothed and fed and 'tended to when
sick. They was concerned 'bout our soul's salvation. Us went to church, learn de catechism;
they was Presbyterians, and read de Bible to us. But I went wid Sam after freedom. He took
de name of Davis, and I jined de Methodist Church and was baptized Louisa Davis."

"Patroller, you ask me? 'Spect I do 'member them. Wasn't I a goodlookin' woman? Didn't Sam
want to see me more than twice a week? Wouldn't he risk it widout de pass some time? Sure he
did. De patrollers got after and run Sam many a time."

"After de war my pappy went to Florida. He look just like a Indian, hair and all, bushy head,
straight and young lookin' wid no beard. We never heard from him since."

"De slaves wash de family clothes on Saturday and then rested after doin' dat. Us had a good
time Christmas; every slave ketch white folks wid a holler, 'Christmas gift, Marster' and they
holler it to each other. Us all hung our stockin's all 'bout de Big House, and then dere would
be sumpin' in dere next mornin'. Lord, wasn't them good times!"

"Now how is it dese days? Young triflin' nigger boys and gals lyin' 'round puffin' cigarets,
carryin' whiskey 'round wid them, and gittin' in jail on Christmas, grievin' de Lord and their
pappies, and all sich things. OH! De risin' generation and de future! What is it comin' to?
I just don't know, but dere is comin' a time to all them."

"I sho' like to dance when I was younger. De fiddlers was Henry Copley and Buck Manigault;
and if anybody 'round here could make a fiddle ring like Buck could, wouldn't surprise me none
if my heart wouldn't cry out to my legs, 'Fust lady to de right and cheat or swing as you like,
and on to de right'."

"Stop dat laughin'. De Indian blood in me have held me up over a hundred years, and de music
might make me young again."

"Oh yes, us had ghost stories, make your hair stand on end, and us put iron in de fire when
us hear screech owl, and put dream book under bed to keep off bad dreams."

"When de yankees come they took off all they couldn't eat or burn, but don't let's talk 'bout
dat. Maybe if our folks had beat them and git up into dere country our folks would of done
just like they did. Who knows?"

"You see dis new house, de flower pots, de dog out yonder, de cat in de sun lyin' in de chair
on de porch, de seven tubs under de shed, de two big wash pots, you see de pictures hangin'
round de wall, de nice beds, all dese things is de blessin's of de Lord through President Roosevelt.
My grandson, Pinckney, is a World War man, and he got in de CCC Camp, still in it in North
Carolina. When he got his bonus, he come down, and say, 'Grandma, you too old to walk, supposin'
I git you a automobile?" I allow, 'Son, de Indian blood rather make me want a house.' Then
us laugh. 'Well,' he say, 'Dis money I has and am continuin' to make, I wants you and mama
to enjoy it.' Then he laugh fit to kill heself. Then I say, 'I been dreamin' of a tepee all
our own, all my lifetime; buy us a lot over in Sugartown in New Brookland, and make a home
of happiness for your ma, me and you'."

"And dis is de tepee you settin' in today. I feel like he's a young warrior, loyal and brave,
off in de forests workin' for his chief, Mr. Roosevelt, and dat his dreams are 'bout me maybe
some night wid de winds blowin' over dat three C camp where he is." My daddy was Ivasum Davis
and my mammy was Rhody Davis. Marse Bill was a good master, lived in a big house, give us a
good place to live and plenty to eat. He hardly ever whipped us, and was never cruel to us.
He didn't let his overseer whip us, and never hit a man.

"Aw, we had good eats den. Wish I has some of dem old ash-cakes now which was cooked in de
brick oven or in de ashes in de fireplace. My mistress had a big garden, and give us something
to eat out of it. We used to go hunting, and killed possums, rabbit, squirrels, and birds.

"We had home-made clothes 'till I was big boy. Dey was made from card and spin wheels.

"Our work was light; we got up at sun-up at blowing of de horn and worked till sundown. Sometimes
we worked on Saturday afternoons when we had to. On Saturday nights we had frolics--men and
women. Some women would wash their clothes on Saturday afternoons. Den at night we have prayer
meetings.

"We had no church on our plantation, not till after freedom, but we learned to read and write
and spell.

"De padderrolers didn't bother us; our master always give us a pass when we go anywhere.

"On Christmas Day master always give big dinners for slaves, and on New Year we had a holiday.

"I married Lila Davis at de Baptist Church in Newberry.

"When our slaves got sick we sent for de doctor. Some of de old folks in the neighborhood believed
in giving root-herb tea or tea made from cherry barks or peach leaves.

"When freedom come de master told us we was free and could go but if we wanted to stay on with
him, we could stay. We stayed with him for two years and worked by day wages.

"The Ku Klux was dere. I heard old folks talk about dem. Dey had white sheets over their heads
and white caps on their heads.

"The Yankees went through our place and stole cattle.

"I thought slavery was all right, 'cause I had a good time. I had a good master.

"I joined the church when I was 21 years old because I thought I'd live better. I think all
ought to join the church." I don't own anything. I make a living working de land.

"I was born on Indian Creek in Newberry County, S. C. about 1856. My mammy was Rhody Davis
and my pa was Ivasum Davis. We belonged in slavery to Bill Davis. He lived at de place called
"Rich Hill". De old house is done tore down, but young Riser now lives in de new house on de place.

"Our master was good to us, but whipped us a little sometimes. He would not allow his overseer
to whip any of us. He give us enough to eat and a fair place to live in. We didn't want fer
anything. Dey had plenty to eat on de farm, and sure had good eatings. Dere was a brick oven
which could cook good bread and cakes. We had a big garden which de mistress looked after,
and she had plenty from it which she shared wid de slaves.

"De old spinning wheel was used lots of times and dey made all de clothes everybody on de place
wore.

"We didn't have no church to go to, but dey sometimes made some slaves go to white folks churches
where dey set on de back seats. We didn't have schools and couldn't learn to read and write
till after freedom come; den some niggers learned at de brush arbors.

"Befo' freedom de patrollers marched up and down de road but didn't bother us. Our master always
give us a pass when we went somewhere. On Christmas he give us big dinners.

"I married Lilla Davis at de white folks' Baptist church in Newberry.

"When slaves got sick some of dem took tree barks and made teas to drink, and some made tea
from root herbs. We had doctors, too, but dey made lots of deir medicine from de barks and herbs.

"I can't remember much what de Ku Klux did, but heard about dem. Just after de war de Yankees
marched through our place and stole some cattle and run away wid dem. In some places dey burned
down de barns and gin houses.

"I had a good master and always had plenty to eat, so I thought slavery was all right. We didn't
have nothing of any kind to worry about.

"I don't know nothing much about Abe Lincoln or Jefferson Davis."

  Source: Wallace Davis (N. 88), Newberry, S. C.
          Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. (9/15/37). My father
belong to de old man Jackie Davis, dat live not so far from Tabernacle,
en den he fall to he son, Mr. William J. Davis. Dat whe' I was raise. My
grandfather, old man Caesar, live dere too."

"I never been treated exactly as de other plantation peoples was as it just like I tellin you,
I be round de white folks mostly. My mamma, she do all de cooking to de big house en dere be
a division in de Missus kitchen for de cook en she chillun to stay in. Sometimes my Massa make
my mamma feed all de small plantation chillun dere to de kitchen from de table. Dey want de
chillun to hurry en grow en dat de reason dey give em good attention at de house. Dey give
us milk en clabber en corn bread to eat mostly en give us fritters some of de time. Dat was
fried wheat bread what some people call pancakes. Used to give me job to mind de cows en de
calves when dey was put to grazing."

"All de other colored peoples live in de nigger quarter up on de hill. Just like de white people
house here, de colored people house all be in row pretty much off from de big house. Oh, de
people was meant to work in dat day en time. De white folks teach em en show em what dey look
for em to do. Den if dey didn' do it like dey tell em do it, dey chastise em."

"It just like I tellin you, de people fare wid abundance of everything in dem days. Destroy
much meat in one month den as de people gets hold of in whole year dese days. It was just dis
way, everybody know to have fence round bout dey plantation den en de hogs could run anywhe'.
All de field land was fence en de woods was for de run of de stock. Dey mark em en some of
de time, dey hear tell of stock 10 mile away. Know em by de brand."

"Peoples didn' have heap of all kind of things dat dey have dese days, but somehow it look
like dey have a knack of gettin along better wid what dey have den. Didn' have no stoves to
cook on in dem days. Cook in clay oven en on de fireplace. Make up fire en when it die down,
dey put tatoes (potatoes) in de oven en let em stay dere all night. My God, won' nothin no
better den dem oven tatoes was. Some of de time, dey have wire in de chimney wid de pots hanging
on dat. Folks used to make up a cake of corn bread en pat it on de hearth en when de fire burn
right low, dey cover de cake all up in pile of ashes. When it get done, it be brown through
de ashes en dey take it out en wash en rub all de ashes off it. Den it was ready to eat. Dat
what dey call ash cake. Just seem like what de peoples used to cook be sweeter eatin den what
dey cooks dis day en time."

"Oh, I beat rice many a day. Yes'um, beat rice many a day for my grandmother en my mamma too.
Had a mortar en a pestle dat beat rice wid. Dey take big tree en saw log off en set it up just
like a tub. Den dey hollow it out in de middle en take pestle dat have block on both it end
en beat rice in dat mortar. Beat it long time en take it out en fan it en den put it back.
De last time it put back, tear off some shucks en put in dere to get de red part of de rice
out en make it white. Ain' nobody never been born can tell you more bout dem pestles en mortars
den William Henry Davis know."

"Yes'um, used to go to corn shuckings en rye thrashings en pea thrashings plenty times. Oh,
dey sing en have music en have big pot cookin out in de yard wid plenty rice en fresh meat
for everybody. Dere be so many people some of de time, dey had to have two or three pots. Den
dey have dem log rollings to clean up de land en when dey would get to rollin dem heavy logs,
dey give de men a little drink of whiskey to revive em, but dey gage how much dey give em.
O Lord, we had tough time den. After dey get through wid all de work, dey would eat supper
den. Give us rice en corn bread en fresh meat en coffee en sweet tatoe pone. My Lord, dat sweet
tatoe pone was de thing in dem days. Missie, you ain' never eat no pone bread? Dey take piece
of tin en drive nails through it en grate de raw tatoes on dat. Den dey take a little flour
en hot water en molasses en mix up in dem raw tatoes en bake it in de oven on de fireplace.
Have lid to oven en put fire under de bottom of it en on de top to get it right done. Some
of de time, dey put a little ginger in it fore it was baked. Cut it in big slices when it get
done, but wouldn' never eat it till dey know it was cold. Missie, de older I gets de more I
does sorrow to go back to dem old constructions dat dey used to have."

"Some of de colored peoples have bresh (brush) shelter whe' dey go to church in dem days, but
all us go to de white folks church. Oh, de colored peoples go in ox carts, but us white folks
have teams en carriage to ride in. I recollects Mr. Davis carriage look sorta like a house
wid two big horses to pull it. De family would be in de inside en have seats whe' dey set facing
one another. De driver have seat on de outside in de front en on de back of de carriage was
de place to set de trunks."

"My daddy was de blacksmith for Mr. Jackie Davis en he could make plows en hoes en all dem
kind of things. He have a circuit dat he go round en mend things on other white folks plantations.
Some of de time, he bring back more den $100.00 to he boss dat he would make. Go all bout in
dat part of Marion county dat be part of Florence county dose times."

"I hear some peoples say dey knows dere such as ghosts, but I ain' never have no mind in dat
line. All I know bout is what my mamma used to tell us big chillun when she want us to stay
home wid de little chillun en mind em. Say dere was Raw Head en Bloody Bones in de woods en
if us go off, de child might set de house on fire. Such as dat was to make us stay home when
dey was gone."

"It just dis way, I think freedom a good thing for some people while it a bad thing for de
ones dat don' have a knack to shuffle for dey own self. When freedom come, some of de colored
people didn' know what freedom was en dey just hang around dey white folks en look to dey Massa
for what dey get right on. Wouldn' get off en make nothin for dey own self. Dat how-come I
think it better for some not to be free cause so much of worryations ain' good for peoples.
Colored peoples never had to worry bout nothin in slavery time." De very day I come into de
world I do not know, but soon my marster, Starke Sims, begun to train me. Dr. Bill Sims, Marse
Stark's son, was a doctor when I was born. A younger son was called Hal. When Hal was a boy
he said he was gwine off, and when he got to be a man, dat is what he done; yes sirree, he
got scattered off.

"Dr. Bill had done started to doctoring folks befo' I got into dis world. And first thing dat
I recollects is how my marster teached me to address him. He addressed me as 'Elias, Johnny
Elias'. I had to answer, 'Sirs', and dat 'S' always had to be dar to please de marster. All
of his slaves had to address him de same way. Sometimes we would answer, 'Sirs Marster'.

"All de things my marster teached me are still a great help to me. Dis younger generation does
not have de quality dat we old niggers has, because dey refuse to take de teachings of dere
parents and de good white folks. De main thing dat Marse teached his slaves was mannerableness.
Dat I holds to dis day; 'specially to de white people. I allus tries to be mannerable to dem.
Often I looks back on dat, but both white and colored is trying to do away wid dem things.
Old training is de best, and I cannot fergit my manners. Never does raal folks fergit dere
raising. Dats what shows up de quality in people. I likes quality in everything, and as soon
as I sees strangers and hears dem talk and looks at dere action, I can tell how much quality
dey got. Dat I sho can. I never is gwine to drap my raising, don't care what de style comes
to. Dat's jest one thing dat my race and de white race, too, wants to do away wid. Dey don't
hold up no manners and no ra'al raising.

"De school teachers tells de chilluns to say yes and no to me. Dey tells dem to say de same
thing to white folks. Den dey teaches de chilluns to Mr. and Miss de own race and to call white
folks by dere names widout any handle to it. Dat ain't gwine to work, and any niggers dat has
self-respect jest ain't gwine to call no white folks by dere name. If you doesn't respect other
folks, why den other folks ain't gwine to show no respect fer you. Why some of my grand chilluns
sets up and says 'yes' and 'no' to me 'stead of 'yes sir' and 'no sir'. But I is right here
to tell you dat my own chilluns don't say 'no' and 'yes' to me. I is strived wid dem and dey
knows how to answer proper to dere elders and to white folks. I ain't got no time fer dese
school teachers dat tells de pupils to answer in no sech insulting ways as dat. I likes manners
and widout manners folks ain't quality; don't make no diffuns 'bout what color dey is or how
far dey is gone in de reading books. Young'uns saying 'yes' and 'no' is jest plain ugly. It
suits me to meet nice folks, and when I finds dat dey ain't got mannerableness about dem, den
I concludes dat dey jest ain't nice.

"I gwine to dress up tonight and go to preaching at Mt. Zion. Dey done already started running
meeting dar. I used to preach amongst dem at de big meetings, but I is retracting now.

"My old marse low to us, 'You is free now, yes sir, you is sho free niggers now. You is gwine
out into de world on your own. Let me tell you dis: If you be's mannerable you will allus come
out more dan conqueror.' I was young den, and I did not know what 'more dan conqueror' meant
den. I is larn't now what it means. Thank God, I does, fer his telling me dat. I lays to de
fact dat de reason I is never been in jail is dat I allus had manners. Young'uns acts biggety
and den dey lands right straight in de first jail dar is.

"I sho never went to no war, but I worked at de house in de corn field a-raising corn fer de
war hosses. I been in only two states, North and South Carolina. I travels jest according to
common sense: lets other folks be my guide. I met up wid Indians; dey wanted to claim kin wid
me, but I wouldn't claim kin wid dem. He tell me bout my high cheeks or something; den he low
something 'bout my nose being long. Dey close thinking people, dem Indians is. Dey don't fergit
nothing. He say he see I is mixed-up, but I never is knowed jest what he was driving at. I
told him I was teached from de old generation, but dat dar wasn't narry drop of Indian blood
in me. Cherokee Creek whar dat old Indian place is. Dey has all kinds of things to sell dat
dey makes. I ain't no Indian and I does not feel dat way, no sir, not narry bit does I feel
like I is a Indian.

"My mother died when I was a wee baby. Never is had no brothers or sisters. She left me wid
her marster dat owned her mother, Kissy Sims. Marse Starke helped my granny to raise me. Kissy
come from Virginia. Her Pa let a man buy her and three other chilluns. Marse Starke raised
dem all up and dats how dey got his name.

"Dis here man standing here by me is Zack Herndon. We is de oldest niggers in Cherokee County
dat I knows of. De other old ones is all dead now. Oh, you knows him, does you Zack?

"Never did so awful much work when I was coming up. Dey was priming me and training me. When
dey call my name, I allus come. Often I hid myself to see de bad niggers whipped. Never had
no 'buse in my life. Marse didn't 'low nobody to look at his niggers when dey was being whipped,
kaise he hated to have to let any of dem be 'bused. Marse Starke sho never whipped no one dat
was good. He never let his overseers 'buse nobody neither. I does not 'member much 'bout his
overseers. One named a Briggs, one a Bishop, one a Coleman and Alley Cook was de last one;
I 'members his name best.

"Marse Starke was a rich man. He had in de Quarter what was know'd as a chilluns' house. A
nurse stayed in it all de time to care fer all de plantation chilluns. My granny 'Kissy' acted
as nurse dar some. Aunt Peggy and aunt Ciller was two mo'. Ciller was de daughter of a King
in Africa, but dat story been traveling ever since she got to dese shores, and it still a-gwine.
All dese helped to nurse me. Dey fed us on milk, plenty of it. We had honey, lasses and lots
of good things. When I was a little bit-a boy I had a big bowl to eat out of. And us chilluns
et like hogs and got fat. We allus had fine food. My marster give me a biscuit sometime from
his plate and I wouldn't have tuck 25¢ fer it. He allus put butter in it or ham and gravy.
He would say, 'Dat's de doctrine, Be kind!' Nobody never got no 'borious beating from our master's
hands.

"I been toiling here on dis earth fer a long time. De Lawd spared me to bring up a big race
of chilluns myself. We is awful po' and ain't none of my chilluns got things as well as I had
when my marster give it to me. My daughter and grand-daughter lives wid Mr. Nathan Littlejohn.
He is rich. I stay in de house wid dem. Dey 'vides wid me dat what dey has. But dat ain't much.
I has great-great-grand chilluns dat I ain't never seed. I have five chilluns living to my
knowings. Last time I counted, I had 137 grand and great-grand chilluns. So you see I looks
into de fourth generation of my own family.

"Me and Old man Zack went to a hanging one time. Both of us clamed up into a tree so dat we
could look down on de transaction from a better angle. De man, I means de sheriff, let us go
up dar. He let some mo' niggers clamb up in de same tree wid us. De man dat was being hung
was called Alf Walker. He was a mulatto and he had done kil't a preacher, so you see dey was
hanging him fer his wickedness, sho as you born dey was.

"While me and Zack up in dat tree a-witnessing dat transaction, peers like we become mo' acquainted
wid one another dan we had ever been since us know'd one another.

"Sheriff 'low'd, 'You is got only fifteen minutes to live in. What has you got to say?' Alf
got up and talked by giving a lecture to folks about being lawful citizens. He give a lecture
also to young folks who he 'low'd dat was not in sech condition as he was. He talking to dem
'bout obeying de parents and staying at home. Me and Zack exchange glances and Zack 'low, 'Alf
ain't never stayed at home none since he been big enough to tramp over de country and he up
dar fixing to git his neck broke fer his waryness, and trying to tell us good folks young and
old how us should act. Now ain't he something to be a-telling us what to do.'

"Finally, Alf had done talked his time out and de sheriff 'low, 'Now you is only got two minutes,
what does you want?'

Alf hollered, 'Mr. Sheriff, lemme shake hands wid somebody.' Sheriff say everybody dat wishes
to may shake his hand. Me and Zack stayed up in dat tree, but some of de niggers went up and
shaked hands wid Alf.

"Time out! You could-a heard a pin drap. I could hear my breath a-coming. I got scared. Zack
looked ra'al ashy. Nobody on de ground moved, jest stayed ra'al quiet and still. Noose drapped
over de man's neck and tightened. Some one moved de block from under his foots. Dat jerked
him down. Whoop! All dem in de tree fell out 'cept me and Zack, dey was so scared. Alf Walker
wasn't no mo'. Me and Zack sot up in dat tree like two cranks. Us sot dar as if it hadn't tuck
no 'fect on us a-tall. All de other folks got 'fected. Zack tickled me when he saw me studying.
He 'low 'you act awful hard-hearted.' I 'low, 'dat man telling us how to do jest now, and dar
he is hanged. Us still a-setting in dis tree, ain't we? We ain't never wanted to see no mo'
hangings, is we Zack?' Zack 'low dat we ain't.

"Onc't de guide low'd to de President, 'You raises your hat to a nigger?' President 'low, 'I
ain't gwine to let nobody be mo' polite dan I is.' He never let nobody have mo' sense dan he
did either. Dat was Washington.

"Me and Zack is gwine to tell you how it is. We is old and ain't no need fer old folks to try
and fool. I is too shame to beg. I wants de pension. Is you gwine to tell me 'bout it? Dis
de truth, I is took a chip fer food. If I could got to school and write fast as I can shake
my fist, I'd be a-giving out dat pension right fast. I likes character and principle. I got
a boy turned into 64 years. He got character and principle, and he still do what I say. I never
put my mouth amongst old folks when I was young. Me and Zack often talks over old times."

  Source: Elias Dawkins (84), Rt. Asked if one of them was named 'Will Dill', the blacker of the
two motioned to himself and said,

"Come here, come in and have a seat," at the same time touching the porch swing beside him.

He acknowledged that he lived in slavery days, "but was a small boy, walking and playing around
at that time". His master was Zeek Long, who lived in Anderson County not far from "Three and
Twenty Mile Creek' and used to ask him:--what the rooster said, what the cow said, what the
pig said; and used to get a great deal of amusement out of his kiddish replies and imitation
of each animal and fowl. From his own calculation, he figured he was born in 1862 in the home
of his mother who was owned by Zeek Long. His father, also, was owned by the same master, but
lived in another house. He remembers when the Yankees came by and asked for something to eat.
When they had gotten this, they went to the corn crib, which was chock full of corn, and took
the corn out, shucked it, and gave it to their horses. All the good horses had been hidden
in the woods and only two or three old poor ones were left in the stables, but the Yankees
did not take these for they only wanted good horses. He remembers seeing the patrollers coming
around and checking up on the 'niggers'. He had an uncle who used to slip off every night and
go to see some colored girl. He had a path that he followed in going to her house.

"One night Uncle Bob, he started to go see his gal, and it was pretty late, but he followed
his path. There were some paterollers out looking for him, and t'rectly they saw him. Uncle
Bob lit out running and the paterollers started running, too. Here they had it up and down
the path. Uncle Bob, he knew there was a big ditch crossing the path, but the paterollers didn't
know it; so when Uncle Bob got to the gully, he jumped right over it and run on, but one of
the patrollers fell into the gully and broke his neck. After dat, Uncle Bob, he stayed in and
kept quiet, for he knew the paterollers had it in for him."

He asked the writer if he had ever heard a chicken talk. He said that he had, and described
a scene at the house one day when a preacher was there. The chickens and guineas came around
the house as usual to get their feed, but didn't get it. He "quoted" the rooster as saying;
"Has the preacher gone yet?" A guinea hen answered, "not yet--not yet".

He said that he often heard turkeys talk. They would ask each other questions, and another
fowl would answer. He once heard a mule that was in the barn, say: "Lord! Lord! All I want
is corn and fodder."

Being told by the negro who was sitting beside him, that he did not believe animals and fowls
could talk, he at once said:

"Sure--roosters and gobblers can talk, one day there was a turkey hen and a lots of little
turkeys scratching around a certain place on a hill, the little turkeys were heard to say,
'Please mam, please mam'. An old gobbler standing and strutting near, cried out, 'Get the hell
out of here'. The turkey hen then moved to another place to feed."

He said that he gets out in his porch early in the mornings and whistles to the birds, and
that soon a large flock of birds are all around him. Offering to demonstrate his ability, he
began to whistle in a peculiar way. Soon thereafter, two or three English sparrows flew into
the yard from nearby trees.

"See thar! See thar!" he said, pointing to them.

"When the war was over," he continued, "we stayed on at Marster's plantation for some time.
I grew up, and was always a fellow who liked hard work. I have railroaded, was a tree doctor,
helped dig wells and did a lot of hard work. The white people was always pleased with my work
and told me so. I went down a well once to help clean it out. It looked like to me that well
was caving in above me; so I hollered for them to pull me out. When I got out, I told them
I wasn't going down no wells any more unless somebody threw me in."

He said that he had seen lots of wild turkeys when he was a boy. One day when he was going
to get some "bacco" for his aunt, he saw a hen and a lot of little turkeys--

"I run after the little wild turkeys but I never kotched a one. That old mother hen would fly
from one limb in a tree to another limb in another tree and call them. They was the runningest
things I ever saw. I nearly run myself to death but I never did get one."

Every now and them, he said, one of the men on the plantation would shoot a wild hog and we
would have plenty of meat to eat. The hogs ran wild in those days, he said.

"I never saw a ghost," he said, "unless it was one night when we boys was out with our dogs
'possum hunting. The dogs treed a possum in a little scrubby tree. I was always a good climber;
so I went up the tree to shake the 'possum out. I shook and shook but the 'possum would not
fall out of the tree. I shook so hard that my hat fell off and I told the niggers not to let
the dogs tear my hat. That was no skunk in the tree, 'cause we couldn't smell anything, but
when I looked again at the 'possum, or whatever it was, it got bigger and bigger. I scrambled
down the tree right away, nearly falling out of it, but I wanted to get away. The dogs acted
kinda scared; yet they would run up to the tree and bark. One old dog I had did not bark, he
just hollered. We left the thing in the tree. I don't know what it was, but it warn't no 'possum,
for I'd shook it out of the tree if it had been."

In further discussing the subject of fowls in talking among themselves, he said that he had
often noticed a rooster and some hens standing around in the shade talking.

"The rooster will say something and the hens will listen; then answer him back, 'yes'. One
day I heard a turkey hen say, 'we are poor, we are poor'. The old turkey gobbler said, 'well,
who in the hell can help it.' Yes sir, they talk just like we do, but 'taint everybody can
understand 'em."

He said that he had fifteen children by his first wife. He remained single for thirteen years
after his wife's death, and never had any children by his second wife.

"Do you reckon we'll ever get a pension in our old age?" he asked. "It seems to me they would
give us old fellows something to live on, for we can't work. How can we live now-a-days? When
a man has done good work when he was able, the country ought to take care of him in his old age.

"I was a hand for hard work all my life. I was raised that way; but now, that I can't do nothing,
it looks like the state ought to take care of me.

"My father told me when I was sitting up to a gal and I told him I was gwinter marry her, 'Son
don't you never cut that woman across the back, for as sure as you do, that cut will be against
you on Judgement Day."

"When I was laid up with the misery in my side, my feet swelled up and busted, and I had a
awful hurting in my side and back. People wanted me to believe I had been conjured, but I did
not believe it, and I told them I would eat all the stuff that a conjure man could bring. Anybody
that believes in conjuring is just a liar. God is the only a person who can bring suffering
on people. He don't want to do it, but it's because we do something He don't want us to when
He makes people suffer. It is the bugger man that does it."

"Uncle" Will said that his father and mother were married by a "jack-leg" preacher who, when
told that they wanted to get married, had them both to jump backwards and forwards over a broom.
He then told them that they were man and wife.

  Source: Will Dill, 555 Pickenpack St., Spartanburg, S. C.
  Interviewer: F. S. DuPre, Spartanburg, Dist. 4 5/19/37

  W. W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S. C.

  THOMAS DIXON
  EX-SLAVE 75 YEARS OLD.

Tom Dixon, a mulatto, is a superannuated minister of the Gospel. He lives in Winnsboro, S.
C., at the corner of Moultrie and Crawford Streets. He is duly certified and registered as
an old age pensioner and draws a pension of $8.00 per month from the Welfare Board of South
Carolina. He is incapable of laborious exercise.

"I was born in 1862, thirteen miles northeast of Columbia, S. C., on the border line of Kershaw
and Fairfield Counties. My mother was a slave of Captain Moultrie Gibbes. My father was white,
as you can see. My mother was the cook for my white folks; her name was Malinda. She was born
a slave of Mr. Tillman Lee Dixon of Liberty Hill. After she learned to cook, my marster bought
her from her master and paid $1,200.00 for her. After freedom, us took the name of Dixon.

"My mistress in slavery time was Miss Mary. She was a Clark before she married Marse Moultrie.
I was nothing but a baby when the war ended and freedom come to our race. I lived on my marster's
Wateree River plantation, with mother, until he sold it and went into the hotel business at
Union, S. C.

"My mother then went to Columbia, S. C., and I attended Benedict College. I became a preacher
in 1886, the year of the earthquake. That earthquake drove many sinners to their knees, me
amongst them; and, when I got up, I resolved to be a soldier of the cross, and every since
I have carried the shield of faith in my left hand and the sword of the Word in my right hand.

"The night I was converted, the moon was shining brightly. We was all at a revival meeting
out from Blythewood, then called Dako, S. C. First, we heard a low murmur or rolling sound
like distant thunder, immediately followed by the swaying of the church and a cracking sound
from the joists and rafters of the building. The women folks set up a screaming. The men folks
set up a hollering: 'Oh Lordy! Jesus save me! We believe! Come Almighty King!' The preacher
tried to quiet us, but we run out the church in the moonlight, men and women crying and praying.
The preacher, Rev. Charlie Moore, continued the services outside and opened the doors of the
church, and every blessed soul come forward and joined the church.

"I married Fannie Irwin, and God blessed us all the days of her life. My daughter, Maggie,
married a Collins and lives in the Harlem section of New York City. My daughter, Sallie, lives
also in Harlem, Greenville Village. Malinda, named for my mother, lives and works in Columbia,
S. C.

"On the death of my wife, Fannie, I courted and married the widow Lizzie Williams. The house
we live in is her own property. She had two children when we married, a boy and a girl. The
boy got killed at the schoolhouse two years ago. The girl is working in Columbia, S. C. I am
a superannuated minister of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and receive a small sum
of money from the denomination, yearly. The amount varies in different years. At no time is
it sufficient to keep me in food and clothing and support.

"I have taken nothing to do with politics all my life, but my race has been completely transformed,
in that regard, since Mr. Roosevelt has been President. Left to a popular vote of the race,
Mr. Roosevelt would get the solid South, against any other man on any ticket he might run on.
He is God Almighty's gentleman. By that, I mean he is brave in the presence of the blue-bloods,
kind in the presence of the common people, and gentle to the lowly and despised Negro."

  Project 1885-1
  Folklore
  Spartanburg, Dist. 4
  Dec. 1, 1937
  Edited by: Elmer Turnage

  [~HW: (Dorroh~]
  STORIES FROM EX-SLAVES

"I live wid my daughter in a four-room house which we rents from Doc Hunter. He got it in charge.
My husband died several years ago.

"My daddy was Harvey Pratt, and he belonged to Marse Bob Pratt in Newberry. My mammy was Mary
Fair, and she belonged in slavery to marse Simeon Fair. When dey married dey had a big wedding.
Marse didn't make slave women marry men if dey didn't want to. Befo' my mammy and daddy married,
somebody give a note to take to Mrs. Fair, her mistress. Mistress wouldn't tell what was in
it, but daddy run every step of de way, he was so glad dey would let 'em marry.

"Col. Simeon Fair had a big fish pond on his place down on de branch behind his house, and
he had a milkhouse, too. (This is where the Margaret Hunter Park is).

"My great-grandmother come from Virginia. She was bought by Marse Fair from a speculator's
drove. Slaves had good places to live in and everything to eat. Old Marse sho cared for his
slaves. He give 'em plenty of clothes and good things to eat. On Sundays dey had to go to de
white folks' church and he made dem put on new clean clothes dat he give 'em.

"I was born about two years befo' freedom, and I lost my mammy right atter de war. I remember
about de Ku Klux and Red Shirts.

"Everything we had was made at home, or on marster's big plantation in de country. Marse told
his son, Billy, befo' he died to take care of his niggers and see dat dey didn't want for nothing.

"Marse made de slaves work all day and sometimes on Saturdays, but he never let 'em work at
night. Sometimes on de plantation dey had corn-shuckings and log-rollings; den dey give de
hands good dinners and some whiskey to drink.

"One old nigger had a weak back and couldn't work much, so he use to play marbles in de yard
wid de kids most every day.

"Slaves couldn't go away from de place unless dey had a pass from de marse to show de patrollers
when dey caught dem out.

"My daddy use to cook at de old Newberry Hotel. He was one of de finest cooks in dis part of
de country. De hotel was a small wooden frame building wid a long front piazza. In de back
was a small wooden two-room house dat servants lived in. Atter de war, de 'little guard house'
stood jes' behind where de opera house now is.

"Some of de slaves learned to read and write. Marse didn't keep dem from learning if dey wanted
to. Niggers used to sing, 'I am born to die'. Dey learn't it from Marse Ramage's son, 'Jock'
Ramage. He learn't 'em to sing it.

"Atter de war, Marse told de niggers dey was free. Most of dem stayed on wid him and took his
name. Slaves most always took de name of deir marsters.

"My mother married at Thomas Pope's place, and he had old man Ned Pearson, a nigger who could
read and write, to marry 'em. He married lots of niggers den. Atter de war many niggers married
over agin, 'cause dey didn't know if de first marriage was good or not.

"Marse Fair let his niggers have dances and frolics on his plantation, and on Saturdays dey
danced till 12 o'clock midnight. Sometimes dey danced jigs, too, in a circle, jumping up and
down. In dese times de young folks dance way into Sunday mornings, and nobody to stop 'em,
but Marse wouldn't let his slaves dance atter 12 o'clock.

"Everybody believed in ghosts. Nobody would pass by a graveyard on a dark night, and dese days
dey go to cemeteries to do deir mischief, at night and not afraid. Doctors used to have home-made
medicines. Old Dr. Brown made medicine from a root herb to cure rheumatism. He called it 'rhue'.
He lived in what is now called Graveltown. His old house has been torn down. He made hot teas
from barks for fevers. He made a liquid salve to rub on for rheumatism.

"When freedom come most of de slaves stayed on. Some man come here to make a speech to de slaves.
He spoke in Marse Fair's yard to a big crowd of niggers and told dem to stay on and work for
wages. When de Yankees come through here, dey stole everything dey could git deir hands on.
Dey went in de house and took food and articles. Marse put guards around his house to keep
dem out so dey wouldn't steal all de potatoes and flour he had for his slaves. Ku Klux went
around de country and caught niggers and carpetbaggers. De carpetbaggers would hunt up chillun's
lands, whose daddys was killed and try to take dem. Dat was when Judge Leheigh was here, and
Capt. Bone was postmaster. Dey was Republicans, but when de Democrats got in power dey stopped
all dat.

"When I married John Dorroh I had a big wedding. We married at de Harp place in Newberry, jes'
behind de big house, in a nigger cottage. White folks and niggers come. I was known amongst
de best white families 'cause I served as cook for dem. I was married by Rev. J. K. Walls,
a nigger preacher from Charleston.

"I think slavery ended through de work of Almighty God. My mother always said dat was it. My
daddy left here and went to Memphis when I was five years old. He sent home $40. He was in
de army wid Major James Baxter. He took care of de guns and things of de Major."

  Source: Isabella Dorroh (N, 75), Newberry, S. C.
          Interviewer: G. L. Summer, Newberry, S. C. 11/22/27.

  Project 1885-1
  Spartanburg, S. C.
  May 31, 1937
  Edited by: Martha Ritter

  FOLKLORE: EX-SLAVES

"I was born in Newberry County, S. C. below Prosperity on Capt. George De Walt's place. My
daddy and mammy was Giles and Lizzie De Walt Downing. My daddy belonged to de Outz family,
but changed his name to Downing--his master was Downing Outz. I was born about 1857. My mother
had 16 children, some died young.

I was a little chap when the war was here, but I remember de soldiers coming home from de war.
De Yankees went through here and stole all the cattle and all the eats. De Ku Klux marched
down de road dressed in white sheets. Freedom come and most of the slaves went away, but I
stayed on wid Marse De Walt. Daddy worked wid Downing Outz for wages. When I was 15 years old
I worked in de fields like grown folks. I never learned to read and write. We had no schools
then for colored people. De only church we had after freedom come was a small "brush arbor" church.

"We hunted rabbits, 'possums, squirrels, wild turkeys, doves and partridges there.

"I joined de church when I was 20 years old, 'cause I thought times would be better for me
then. Of course, I kind of back-slided little afterwards, but always tried to do right. Dat
is wha' de hard time left uv him. I born en raise dere in Florence County de 18th uv December,
1847. Don' know 'xactly wha' my father name, but my mudder tell me he wuz name Dozier. My mudder
wuz Becky en she b'long to ole man Wiles Gregg dere on de Charleston road. I hab two sisters
en one brother, but not uv one father. I s'ppose brother Henry wuz me whole brother en Fannie
en Ca'oline wuz jes me half sister."

"Well, dey ne'er hab so mucha sumptin, but I recollect dey make dey own produce den. Oh, dey
lib very well. We call it good libin' at dat time. Coase de bedding de colored peoples hab
wasn't much cause dey jes hab some kind uv home-made stuff den. We raise in a t'ree room house
wha' hab floor on two uv de room. Hab house right dere on de Gregg plantation. Family went
from age to age in dat day en time wid dey own Massa name. I 'member my gra'mudder was name
Fannie Gregg. Now, I tell yuh how I 'count fa me hab de name Dozier, I jes s'ppose dat come
from me father."

"Hadder do some sorta work in dem days lak hoe corn en replant en so on lak dat, but ne'er
didn't do no man work. Wuz jes uh half hand, dat is 'bout so. Dey gi'e us plenty sumptin to
eat den, but ne'er pay us no money. Coase dey didn't 'low us no choice uv wha' we eat at dat
time. Hab plenty meat en corn bread en molasses mos' aw de time. Den dey le' us hab uh garden
uv we own en we hunt possum many uh time en ketch fish too. Meat was de t'ing dat I lak mostly."

"Dey gi'e us good clothes to put on us back wha' dey hab make on de plantation en in de winter,
dey gi'e us good warm clothes. Jes wear wha'e'er de white folks gi'e us. Didn't take no 'ffect
tall 'bout Sunday clothes."

"Fust time I marry I hab uh very good wedding. Marry ole man Gurley daughter o'er in Florence
County. Don' know 'xactly how ole I was den, but I c'n tell yah dis much, I wasn't in no herry
to marry. Aw colored peoples hadder do to marry den wuz to go to dey Massa en ge' uh permit
en consider demselves man en wife. I recollect dat we hab a very good wedding supper dere.
I marry Georgeanna de second time en I hab four head uv chillun by me fust wife en four head
uv chillun by me second wife. Ne'er couldn't tell how many gran'chillun I got."

My Massa en Missus wuz mighty pious good people. Dey go to preachin' dere to Hopewell Presbyterian
Chu'ch aw de time. De man wha' wuz de preacher dere den wuz name Frierson. De colored peoples
go dere to dat same chu'ch en sot en de gallery. Yuh know dere spirituals hymns en dere reels.
I c'n sing one uv dem dat I use'er sing in my slumberin' hours. It go lak dis:

  Chillun, wha' yuh gwinna do in de jedgment mornin'?

  He gwinna place one foot in de sea
  En de udder on de land,
  En declare tha' time would be no more,
  Chillun, wha' yuh gwinna do?

  Chillun, wha' yah gwinna do in de jedgment mornin'?

"Now de angels sing dat to me in my slumberin' hour en dey sing it dat I might gi'e it to de
libin' heah on dis earth. Well, I know right smart uv dem song cause accordin' to my 'sperience,
de hymn book wha' to fence de human family in. I got ah good set uv lungs en I wuz de one wha'
lead de flock den. Dere jes one grand reason why I can' sing right well dis a'ternoon, yuh
is take me on de surprise lak."

"I was jes uh chap in slavery time en I hadder stay dere home aw de time whey dere didn't no
harm come 'bout me. Dey le' we chillun play marbles en ball aw we wanna den. Jes chunk de ball
to one annuder o'er de house. Dat how we play ball in dem times. My white folks didn't do nuthin
but stay home en go to chu'ch meetin's. Dey ne'er didn't punish none uv dey colored peoples
en didn' 'low no udder people to do it neither. I couldn't tell yah how many slave dey own
but dey hab more slave by de increase uv dey families. Dey hab so many dat some uv de time
dey'ud hire some uv dem out to annuder plantation. Ne'er didn't see em sell none uv dey colored
peoples. I know dis much, dat wuz uh right good place to lib."

"I heared tell uv trouble 'tween de whites en de colored peoples, but dere wuzn't none uv dat
'round whey I stay. Dey say some uv de slave run 'way fa bad treatment en stay in de woods.
Didn't hab no jails den en when dey'd ketch em, dey'ud buff em en gag em en hoss whip em. Now,
I ne'er see none uv dat but I heared tell uv it."

"My Massa ne'er didn't work us hard lak. Coase uz de day' ud come, de hands hadder go up to
de big house en go 'bout dey business, but dey al'ays knock offen early on uh Saturday evenin'
en le' everbody do jes wha' dey wanna dere on de plantation. Ne'er didn't use no horn to wake
dey colored peoples up en didn't wake em work en de big Christmus day en New Years' neither.
Ne'er hab no udder holidays but dem two. My Massa gi'e aw his colored peoples uh big Christmus
dinner to de white folks house. Jes hab plenty uv fresh meat en rice en biscuit en cake fa
eve'ybody dat day."

"Dey hab funeral fa de colored peoples den jes lak dey hab dese days 'cept dey ne'er hab no
preacher 'bout. Aw de slaves stop workin' fa de funeral en dey'ud jes carry de body en permit
it to de ground uz wuz de usual t'ing dey do. Coase dey hab plenty singin' dere."

"Dem t'ing wha' people call ghostes, dey is evil walks. I know dis much, de sperit uv de body
travels en dat de truth sho' uz I libin' heah. Coase I ain' ne'er see none uv dem t'ing en
I ain' scared uv nuthin neither. Don' ne'er pay no 'ttention to no black cat en t'ing lak dat.
Ain' bother wid none uv dem charm neither. De peoples use'er hab dey own doc'or book en dey
search dat en use wha' it say do. Dey ne'er use no me'icine tall den but calomel en castor
oil en turpentine."

"I sho' 'member when de fust gun shoot dere to Fort Sumter. Us fer uz I c'n recollect, it wuz
in June. De Yankees come t'rough dere en to my knowin', dey 'haved very well. Jes ax my Massa
fa sumptin to eat en dat wuz aw dey done. Dere sho' wuz uh rejoicing 'mongest some uv de colored
peoples when dey tell em dey wuz free uz de white folks wuz. Some uv dem leab dey Massa plantation
jes uz soon uz dey know'd dey wuz free, but we ne'er do dat. Jes stayed right on dere wid Mr.
Gregg en work fa one-third uv wha' dey make. Coase de white folks furnish aw de wear en tear
uv eve't'ing."

"Dey ain' ne'er hab no schools fa de colored peoples no whey 'bout whey I stay 'fore freedom
come heah. Won' long a'ter de war dat free schools wuz open up dere. It jes lak dis, I ain'
bother wid dem schools mucha den, but I c'n read right smart. Jes ketch it uz I come 'long
en wha' I kotch, I put dat to work. I is went to one uv dese night schools dey hab 'bout heah
not long gone."

"Mr. Abraham Lincoln, I ain' ne'er see him, but I know he wuz de President uv de United States.
Ain' ne'er see Mr. Jefferson Davis neither. Dey wus oppositionalist den, I sho' know dat."

"It jes lak dis, I t'ink dis uh better day we lib in dese times. When we b'long to de white
folks, we lib, en a'ter we wuz free we lib right on. I t'ink being free de best time to lib.
Better to be loose den tied cause don' care how good yo' owner, yuh hadder be under dey jurisdiction.
Ain' dat right?"

  Source: Washington Dozier, age 90, colored, Pee Dee, Marion
  Co. (Personal interview, June 1937). My son owns dis
house and he keeps it up fer me and his sister. I's born on de bank of
Cherokee Creek, but I jest 'members how many years I stayed dar. Atter
Freedom had been a long time, we moved to Mr. Chesterfield Scruggs'
plantation whar we share cropped. It was on de old Spartanburg road from
here to Spartanburg.

"I was purtty good-size chile when de Ku Klux come and tried to git my daddy. Dey whipped him;
den he run off and stayed off fer over seven years. Dem Ku Klux was in all kinds of shapes,
wid horns and things on dere heads. Dey was so scary looking dat I ain't never fergot dem.
Dem's de awfulest 'boogers' I is ever see'd befo' or since. I was in de bed and so was Pa,
but dey broke in our do' and got him. I kivvered up my head and did not make narry a sound.
Dat's all dat I can recollect now." I I c'n tell yuh dis much dat I wuz uh grown 'oman when
de shake wuz. Aw de older peoples wuz at de chu'ch en ha' left us home to take care uv aw dem
little chillun. Fust t'ing we is know de house 'gin to quiver lak. We ne'er know wha' been
to matter en den de house 'gin to rock en rock en rock. We wuz so scare we run outer in de
yard en eve't'ing outer dere wuz jes uh shaking jes lak de house wuz. We ne'er know wha' to
do. Den we heared de peoples comin' from de chu'ch jes uh runnin' en uh hollerin'. Didn't nobody
know wha' make dat. I tellin yuh jes lak dat wuz, de jedgment ain' ne'er been no closer come
heah den when dat shake was."

"My mudder wuz name Clorrie en she b'long to Miss Millie Gasque up de road dere. I born in
Miss Millie yard en I stay dere till I wuz six year old. My pa say I wuz six year old. He been
ole man Vidger Hanes en b'long to Mr. Wesley White o'er dere 'bout laughin 'fore freedom 'clare.
A'ter dat we move on de hill en my pa hire me dere to Colonel Durant to wash dishes en help
'bout de kitchen. Den dey put me to do de washin' en I been uh washin' en uh washin' mos' e'er
since. Dats de way I done till I ge' so I ne'er couldn't make it en den I hadder quit offen.
Dat how come I hab aw dese pretty flowers. Miss Durant gi'e me aw dem dahlia wha' yuh see in
dat yard right dere. Dat how I ge' wha' little bit uv money I hab dese day en time. Dem white
folks up dere in town comes down heah en begs em from me."

"Dey tell me some uv de peoples ge' 'long good en den some uv dem ge' 'long bad back dere in
slavery day. Don' care how good peoples is dere sho' be uh odd'un de crowd some uv de time.
Dey say some uv de colored peoples'ud run 'way from dey Massa en hide in de woods. Den dey
slip back to de plantation in de night en ge' green corn outer de white folks field en carry
em back in de woods en cook em dere. I hear Tom Bostick tell 'bout when he run 'way one time.
Say he use'er run 'way en hide in de woods aw de time. Den de o'erseer ketch him one time when
he been come back en wuz grabblin' 'bout de tatoe patch. Say he gwinna make Tom Bostick stay
outer de woods ur kill him 'fore sun up dat day. Tom say dey take him down 'side de woods en
strip he clothes offen him. (I hear em say dere plenty people bury down 'side dem woods dat
dere ain' nobody know 'bout). Den he say dey tie him to uh tree en take uh fat light'ud torch
en le' de juice drap outer it right on he naked body. He say he holler en he beg en he ax em
hab mercy but dat ne'er didn't do no good. He mock how de tar make uh racket when it drap on
he skin. Yuh know it gwinna make uh racke't. Dat t'ing gwinna make uh racket when it drap on
anyt'ing wha' fresh. Ain' yuh ne'er hear no hot grease sizzle lak? Yas'um, hear Tom Bostick
tell dat more times den I got fingers en toe." 'Vide man en he wife. Dey sho' done it. I hear
pa tell 'bout dat. Make em stand up on uh stump en bid em offen dere jes lak dey wuz hoss.
Pa say dey sell he brother Elic wife 'way wid de onlyest child dey hab. Ne'er didn't see dat
wife en child no more."

"Coase de le' de colored peoples visit 'round from one plantation to annuder but dey hadder
hab uh ticke' wid em. Effen dey meet em in de road en dey ne'er hab dat ticke' somewhey 'bout
on em, dey hadder take wha' follow. Ne'er 'low em to hab no udder paper 'bout em no whey. Effen
dey see em wid uh paper, dey ax em 'bout it en effen it ne'er been uh ticke', dey mighty apt
to gi'e em uh good t'rashin'."

"Dey tell me some uv de colored peoples use'er take t'ing from dey Massa, but I ain' ne'er
see em do none uv dat on my white folks plantation. Ne'er hadder take nuthin dere. Ge' 'nough
meal en meat dere to de big house eve'y Friday to las' em aw t'rough de week. Reckon de ration
wuz more wholesome den in dat day en time cause dey take time en cook dey t'ing done. Hadder
cook in de fireplace. Dat how dey done. I 'member wha' good t'ings my ole mammy use'er cook
in dat spider. Jes set it on de coals en keep uh turnin' it 'bout wid de handle. Dere ain'
ne'er nuthin eat no better den dat ash cake she use'er make fa we chillun. Yuh ain' ne'er hear
tell 'bout dat. Jes ster (stir) up uh nice hoecake en wrap it up in oak leaves wha' right sorta
wet. Den yuh rake uh heap uv ash togedder en lay yuh hoecake on dat en kiver it up wid some
more ash. Yuh le' it cook right done en den yuh take it up en wash it offen en it ready to
eat. Us chillun lub dat den."

"Annuder t'ing dat eat right smart in dem days wuz dat t'ing call big hominy. Dey jes ge' some
whole grain corn en put it in de pot en boil it long time. Den dey take it offen de fire en
pour lye water aw o'er it. Dey do dat to ge' de husk offen it. Soak ash outer de fire en ge'
dat lye water. Den dey hadder take it to de well outer in de yard en wash it uh heap uv time
to ge' dat lye outer it. A'ter dat dey season it wid salt en pepper en cook it annuder time.
No 'mam, dey ne'er eat it wid no butter. Jes drap it in de grease wha' left in de pan a'ter
dey fry de meat en make it right brown lak. Dat de way dey cook dey big hominy."

"Folks don' hab time to do t'ings in de right way lak dey use'er cause de world gwine too fas'
dese day en time. Dese people comin' up 'bout heah dese days ain' gwinna ne'er quit habin'
so mucha belly ache long uz dey ain' stop eatin' aw dem half done ration dey is eat. Coase
de peoples wiser now but dey weaker. De peoples wuz more humble in dem days. When dey didn't
hab no rain, dey ge' togedder en pray fa rain en dey ge' it too. I tellin' yuh peoples gotta
work effen dey gwinna ge' to de right place when dey leab heah. Effen de peoples ne'er didn't
go to chu'ch in dem days, dey stay home. Ne'er see chillun in de road on Sunday eve'y which
uh way lak yunnah see em dese days. My pa say yuh mus' train up uh child in de way he oughta
go en den effen dey stray 'way, dey sho' come back a'ter while. I tellin' yuh de peoples ain'
lak dey use'er wuz. Dey sho' wickeder en worser in dis day en time den when I raise up. Dey
wuz more friendly den en do more favor fa peoples. It jes lak dis, I ain' gwinna do nobody
no harm. Effen I can' do em no good, ain' gwinna do no harm en ain' gwinna 'buse em neither."

  Source: Aunt Silva Durant, colored, Marion, S. C.
          Personal interview, May 1937. Dat was an unexpectin trip when you
come here dat day en I wasn' thinkin bout much dat I had know to tell
you. It been kind o' put me on a wonder."

"You see, child, I never didn' see my grandfather cause when I was born, dey had done sold
him away. I hear tell dat sometimes dey would take de wife from dey husband en another time
dey would take de husband from dey wife en sell dem off yonder somewhe' en never didn' see
dem no more neither. Yes, I sho know dat cause I hear my father speak bout dat plenty times.
Yes, mam, dey sold my uncle's wife away en he never didn' see her no more till after freedom
come en he done been married again den. Speculators carried my mother's first husband off en
den she married again. Cose I was born of de second husband en dat ain' been yesterday."

"I hear talk bout dat didn' none of de colored people have nothin in slavery time en heap of
dem wasn' allowed to pick up a paper or nothin no time. Often hear dem talk dat some of de
niggers was freed long time fore dey know bout it. Hear dem say some white folks hold dem long
time till dey could make out to get somethin for demselves. Don' think so. Don' think so. No,
mam, don' think so. Dey might been intended for dem to get somethin when dey was freed, but
I never learn of nobody gettin nothin. Cose I often heard my father say some white folks thought
more bout dey colored people den others en hope dem out more. Hear tell dat didn' none of dem
have no clothes much den. No, mam, colored people won' bless wid no clothes much in dem days.
I remember dey had to wear dese old big shoes, call brogans, wid brass all cross de toes here.
Nobody don' wear nothin like dat now. Dey was coarse shoes. Some say plenty of de people had
to go barefooted all de time in dem days. Reckon dat would kill de people in dis day en time.
Couldn' stand nothin like dat. Yes, mam, see Tom Bostick walk right cross dat field many a
day just as barefooted as he come in de world en all de ground would be covered over wid ice
en snow. De people get after him en he say, 'Well, I had worser den dis to go through wid in
slavery time.' Say he come up dat way en he never know no difference den dat he had thick shoe
on his foot."

"Well, you see, some of de white folks would spare dey colored people so much ration when dey
knock off work on a Saturday to last dem till de next Saturday come. Hear tell dey give dem
a peck of meal en a little molasses en a hog jowl en dat had to last dem all de week. Dem what
use a little tobacco, give dem a plug of dat en give dem a little flour for Sunday. Didn' nobody
have to work on Sunday en den dey would allow dem two days off for Christmas too. I tellin
you bout how my white folks would do, but dem what had a rough Massa, dey just got one day.
I hear dem say dey always had a little flour on Christmas. Don' know what else dey give dem,
but won' nothin much. I know dat. Sho know dat."

"I hear say two intelligent people didn' live so far apart en one never treat dey colored people
right en being as dey wasn' allowed to go from one place to another widout dey had a ticket
wid dem, dey would steal somethin en run away. Say de just man tell dat other man dat if he
would feed his niggers right, dey wouldn' have no need to be stealin so much things. No'um,
I does hate to tell dat. Cose dey say dey done it. Say de overseer would beat dem up dat never
do what he tell dem to do mighty bad en wouldn' be particular bout whe' dey was buried neither.
Hear talk dat dey bury heap of dem in a big hole down side de woods somewhe'. Cose I don' know
whe' dat word true or not, but dat what dey tell me."

"Oo--oo--yes, mam, dey sho whip de colored women in dem days. Yes, mam, de overseer done it
cause I hear dem say dat myself. Tell dat dey take de wives en whip de blood out dem en de
husband never didn' dare to say nothin. Hear dey whip some so bad dey had to grease dem. If
de colored people didn' do to suit de white folks, dey sho whip dem. No, mam, if dey put you
out to work, ain' nobody think dey gwine lay down under de bresh (brush) en stay dere widout
doin dey portion of work. Yes, child, hear bout dat more times, den I got fingers en toes."

"Oh, de times be worser in a way dese days. Yes, mam, dey sho worser in a way. De people be
wiser now den what dey used to be, but dere so much gwine on, dey ain' thinkin bout dey welfare
no time en dat'll shorten anybody days. Oh, honey, we livin in a fast world dese days. Peoples
used to help one another out more en didn' somebody be tryin to pull you down all de time.
When you is found a wicked one in dat day en time, it been a wicked one. Cose de people be
more intelligent in learnin dese days, but I'm tellin you dere a lot of other things got to
build you up 'sides learnin. Dere one can get up to make a speech what ain' got no learnin
en dey can just preach de finest kind of speech. Say dey ain' know one thing dey gwine say
fore dey get up dere. Folks claim dem kind of people been bless wid plenty good mother wit.
Den another time one dat have de learnin widout de mother wit can get up en seem like dey just
don' know whe' to place de next word. Yes, mam, I hear dat often."

"What I meant by what I say bout de wicked one? I meant when you found a wild one, it been
a wild one for true. I mean you better not meddle wid one like dat cause dey don' never care
what dey do. People look like dey used to care more for dey lives den dey do dese days. Dat
what I meant, but you can weigh dat like you want to. You see, dere be different ways for people
to hurt demselves."

"Oh, my soul, hear talk bout dere be ghosts en hants, but I never didn' experience nothin like
dat. Yes, mam, I hear too much of dat. Been hearin bout dat ever since I been in a manner grown,
you may say. I hear people say dey see dem, but I ain' take up no time wid nothin like dat.
I have a mind like dis, if such a thing be true, it ain' intended for everybody to see dem.
I gwine tell you far as I know bout it. I hear dese old people say when anybody child born
wid a caul over dey face, dey can always see dem things en dem what ain' born dat way, dey
don' see dem. Cose I don' know nothin bout what dat is en I is hate to tell it, but I hear
lot of people say dey can see hants en ghosts all time of a night. Yes'um, I hear de older
people say dat, but I don' know whe' it true or no. I know I don' see nothin myself, but de
wind. Don' see dat, but I feels it."

"Oh, my God, some people believe in dat thing call conjurin, but I didn' never believe in nothin
like dat. Never didn' understand nothin like dat. Hear say people could make you leave home
en all dat, but I never couldn' see into it. Never didn' believe in it."

"Yes, mam, I see plenty people wear dem dimes round dey ankle en all kind of things on dey
body, but never didn' see my mother do nothin like dat. I gwine tell you it just like I got
it. Hear talk dat some would wear dem for luck en some tote dem to keep people from hurtin
dem. I got a silver dime in de house dere in my trunk right to dis same day dat I used to wear
on a string of beads, but I took it off. No, mam, couldn' stand nothin like dat. Den some peoples
keeps a bag of asafetida tied round dey neck to keep off sickness. Folks put it on dey chillun
to keep dem from havin worms. I never didn' wear none in my life, but I know it been a good
thing for people, especially chillun. Let me see, dere a heap of other things dat I learn bout
been good for people to wear for sickness. Dere been nutmeg dat some people make a hole in
en wear it round dey neck. I forget whether it been good for neuralgia or some of dem other
body ailments, but I know it won' for no conjurin."

"Honey, pa always say dat you couldn' expect no more from a child den you puts in dey raisin.
Pa say, 'Sylvia, raise up your chillun in de right way en dey'll smile on you in your old age.'
Honey, I don' see what dese people gwine expect dey chillun to turn out to be nohow dese days
cause dey ain' got no raisin en dey ain' got no manners. I say, I got a feelin for de chillun
cause dey parents ain' stay home enough of time to learn dem nothin en dey ain' been know no
better. Remember when my parents went off en tell us to stay home, we never didn' darsen to
go off de place. Den when dey would send us off, we know we had to be back in de yard fore
sunup in de evenin. Yes, child, we all had to be obedient to our parents in dat day en time.
I always was sub-obedient myself en I never had no trouble nowhe'. Yes, mam, when we went off
anywhe', we ax to go en we been back de hour dey expect to see us. Yes, mam, chillun was more
obedient den. None of us didn' sass us parents. Won' raise dat way. I remember when I was young,
I used to tote water en make fire to de pot for my mother to wash plenty times. Den dey learn
me how to use a hoe en when I was married en left home, won' nothin strange to me."

"No, mam, I didn' have no weddin when I was married, but everything was pleasant en turned
out all right. Yes, mam, everybody don' feel so good leavin home, but I felt all right, I was
married over dere in Bethel M. E. Church en served a little cake en wine dere home afterwards
en dat ain' no weddin. Didn' have nothin but pound cake en wine. Had three plain cakes. Two
was cut up dere home en I remember I carried one wid me over Catfish dere to de Reaves place."