SHORT STUDIES
                                   ON
                             GREAT SUBJECTS.

                                 LONDON
                     PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO.
                            NEW-STREET SQUARE

                              SHORT STUDIES
                                   ON
                             GREAT SUBJECTS.

                                   BY

                         JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE, M.A.

                  LATE FELLOW OF EXETER COLLEGE, OXFORD.

                            SECOND EDITION.

                                 LONDON:
                         LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.
                                  1867.

CONTENTS.

                                                           PAGE

THE SCIENCE OF HISTORY                                        1

TIMES OF ERASMUS AND LUTHER:
    Lecture I                                                26
    Lecture II                                               50
    Lecture III                                              75

THE INFLUENCE OF THE REFORMATION ON THE SCOTTISH CHARACTER  102

THE PHILOSOPHY OF CATHOLICISM                               124

A PLEA FOR THE FREE DISCUSSION OF THEOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES  133

CRITICISM AND THE GOSPEL HISTORY                            159

THE BOOK OF JOB                                             185

SPINOZA                                                     223

THE DISSOLUTION OF THE MONASTERIES                          265

ENGLAND'S FORGOTTEN WORTHIES                                294

HOMER                                                       334

THE LIVES OF THE SAINTS                                     363

REPRESENTATIVE MEN                                          384

REYNARD THE FOX                                             401

THE CAT'S PILGRIMAGE:
    Part I                                                  419
    Part II                                                 422
    Part III                                                427
    Part IV                                                 430

FABLES:
     I. The Lions and the Oxen                              433
    II. The Farmer and the Fox                              434

PARABLE OF THE BREAD-FRUIT TREE                             436

COMPENSATION                                                439

THE SCIENCE OF HISTORY:

A LECTURE DELIVERED AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION

FEBRUARY 5, 1864.

Ladies and Gentlemen,--I have undertaken to speak to you this evening on what is called the
Science of History. I fear it is a dry subject; and there seems, indeed, something incongruous
in the very connection of such words as Science and History. It is as if we were to talk of
the colour of sound, or the longitude of the rule-of-three. Where it is so difficult to make
out the truth on the commonest disputed fact in matters passing under our very eyes, how can
we talk of a science in things long past, which come to us only through books? It often seems
to me as if History was like a child's box of letters, with which we can spell any word we
please. We have only to pick out such letters as we want, arrange them as we like, and say
nothing about those which do not suit our purpose.

I will try to make the thing intelligible, and I will try not to weary you; but I am doubtful
of my success either way. First, however, I wish to say a word or two about the eminent person
whose name is connected with this way of looking at History, and whose premature death struck
us all with such a sudden sorrow. Many of you, perhaps, recollect Mr. Buckle as he stood not
so long ago in this place. He spoke more than an hour without a note--never repeating himself,
never wasting words; laying out his matter as easily and as pleasantly as if he had been talking
to us at his own fireside. We might think what we pleased of Mr. Buckle's views, but it was
plain enough that he was a man of uncommon power; and he had qualities also--qualities to which
he, perhaps, himself attached little value, as rare as they were admirable.

Most of us, when we have hit on something which we are pleased to think important and original,
feel as if we should burst with it. We come out into the book-market with our wares in hand,
and ask for thanks and recognition. Mr. Buckle, at an early age, conceived the thought which
made him famous, but he took the measure of his abilities. He knew that whenever he pleased
he could command personal distinction, but he cared more for his subject than for himself.
He was contented to work with patient reticence, unknown and unheard of, for twenty years;
and then, at middle life, he produced a work which was translated at once into French and German,
and, of all places in the world, fluttered the dovecotes of the Imperial Academy of St. Petersburg.

Goethe says somewhere, that as soon as a man has done anything remarkable, there seems to be
a general conspiracy to prevent him from doing it again. He is feasted, fêted, caressed; his
time is stolen from him by breakfasts, dinners, societies, idle businesses of a thousand kinds.
Mr. Buckle had his share of all this; but there are also more dangerous enemies that wait upon
success like his. He had scarcely won for himself the place which he deserved, than his health
was found shattered by his labours. He had but time to show us how large a man he was--time
just to sketch the outlines of his philosophy, and he passed away as suddenly as he appeared.
He went abroad to recover strength for his work, but his work was done with and over. He died
of a fever at Damascus, vexed only that he was compelled to leave it uncompleted. Almost his
last conscious words were, 'My book, my book! I shall never finish my book!' He went away as
he had lived, nobly careless of himself, and thinking only of the thing which he had undertaken
to do.

But his labour had not been thrown away. Disagree with him as we might, the effect which he
had already produced was unmistakable, and it is not likely to pass away. What he said was
not essentially new. Some such interpretation of human things is as early as the beginning
of thought. But Mr. Buckle, on the one hand, had the art which belongs to men of genius; he
could present his opinions with peculiar distinctness; and, on the other hand, there is much
in the mode of speculation at present current among us for which those opinions have an unusual
fascination. They do not please us, but they excite and irritate us. We are angry with them;
and we betray, in being so, an uneasy misgiving that there may be more truth in those opinions
than we like to allow.

Mr. Buckle's general theory was something of this kind: When human creatures began first to
look about them in the world they lived in, there seemed to be no order in anything. Days and
nights were not the same length. The air was sometimes hot and sometimes cold. Some of the
stars rose and set like the sun; some were almost motionless in the sky; some described circles
round a central star above the north horizon. The planets went on principles of their own;
and in the elements there seemed nothing but caprice. Sun and moon would at times go out in
eclipse. Sometimes the earth itself would shake under men's feet; and they could only suppose
that earth and air and sky and water were inhabited and managed by creatures as wayward as
themselves.

Time went on, and the disorder began to arrange itself. Certain influences seemed beneficent
to men, others malignant and destructive, and the world was supposed to be animated by good
spirits and evil spirits, who were continually fighting against each other, in outward nature
and in human creatures themselves. Finally, as men observed more and imagined less, these interpretations
gave way also. Phenomena the most opposite in effect were seen to be the result of the same
natural law. The fire did not burn the house down if the owners of it were careful, but remained
on the hearth and boiled the pot; nor did it seem more inclined to burn a bad man's house down
than a good man's, provided the badness did not take the form of negligence. The phenomena
of nature were found for the most part to proceed in an orderly, regular way, and their variations
to be such as could be counted upon. From observing the order of things, the step was easy
to cause and effect. An eclipse, instead of being a sign of the anger of Heaven, was found
to be the necessary and innocent result of the relative position of sun, moon, and earth. The
comets became bodies in space, unrelated to the beings who had imagined that all creation was
watching them and their doings. By degrees, caprice, volition, all symptoms of arbitrary action,
disappeared out of the universe; and almost every phenomenon in earth or heaven was found attributable
to some law, either understood or perceived to exist. Thus nature was reclaimed from the imagination.
The first fantastic conception of things gave way before the moral; the moral in turn gave
way before the natural; and at last there was left but one small tract of jungle where the
theory of law had failed to penetrate--the doings and characters of human creatures themselves.

There, and only there, amidst the conflicts of reason and emotion, conscience and desire, spiritual
forces were still conceived to exist. Cause and effect were not traceable when there was a
free volition to disturb the connection. In all other things, from a given set of conditions,
the consequences necessarily followed. With man, the word law changed its meaning; and instead
of a fixed order, which he could not choose but follow, it became a moral precept, which he
might disobey if he dared.

This it was which Mr. Buckle disbelieved. The economy which prevailed throughout nature, he
thought it very unlikely should admit of this exception. He considered that human beings acted
necessarily from the impulse of outward circumstances upon their mental and bodily condition
at any given moment. Every man, he said, acted from a motive; and his conduct was determined
by the motive which affected him most powerfully. Every man naturally desires what he supposes
to be good for him; but to do well, he must know well. He will eat poison, so long as he does
not know that it is poison. Let him see that it will kill him, and he will not touch it. The
question was not of moral right and wrong. Once let him be thoroughly made to feel that the
thing is destructive, and he will leave it alone by the law of his nature. His virtues are
the result of knowledge; his faults, the necessary consequence of the want of it. A boy desires
to draw. He knows nothing about it: he draws men like trees or houses, with their centre of
gravity anywhere. He makes mistakes, because he knows no better. We do not blame him. Till
he is better taught he cannot help it. But his instruction begins. He arrives at straight lines;
then at solids; then at curves. He learns perspective, and light and shade. He observes more
accurately the forms which he wishes to represent. He perceives effects, and he perceives the
means by which they are produced. He has learned what to do; and, in part, he has learned how
to do it. His after-progress will depend on the amount of force which his nature possesses;
but all this is as natural as the growth of an acorn. You do not preach to the acorn that it
is its duty to become a large tree; you do not preach to the art-pupil that it is his duty
to become a Holbein. You plant your acorn in favourable soil, where it can have light and air,
and be sheltered from the wind; you remove the superfluous branches, you train the strength
into the leading shoots. The acorn will then become as fine a tree as it has vital force to
become. The difference between men and other things is only in the largeness and variety of
man's capacities; and in this special capacity, that he alone has the power of observing the
circumstances favourable to his own growth, and can apply them for himself. Yet, again, with
this condition,--that he is not, as is commonly supposed, free to choose whether he will make
use of these appliances or not. When he knows what is good for him, he will choose it; and
he will judge what is good for him by the circumstances which have made him what he is.

And what he would do, Mr. Buckle supposed that he always had done. His history had been a natural
growth as much as the growth of the acorn. His improvement had followed the progress of his
knowledge; and, by a comparison of his outward circumstances with the condition of his mind,
his whole proceedings on this planet, his creeds and constitutions, his good deeds and his
bad, his arts and his sciences, his empires and his revolutions, would be found all to arrange
themselves into clear relations of cause and effect.

If, when Mr. Buckle pressed his conclusions, we objected the difficulty of finding what the
truth about past times really was, he would admit it candidly as far as concerned individuals;
but there was not the same difficulty, he said, with masses of men. We might disagree about
the characters of Julius or Tiberius Cæsar, but we could know well enough the Romans of the
Empire. We had their literature to tell us how they thought; we had their laws to tell us how
they governed; we had the broad face of the world, the huge mountainous outline of their general
doings upon it, to tell us how they acted. He believed it was all reducible to laws, and could
be made as intelligible as the growth of the chalk cliffs or the coal measures.

And thus consistently Mr. Buckle cared little for individuals. He did not believe (as some
one has said) that the history of mankind is the history of its great men. Great men with him
were but larger atoms, obeying the same impulses with the rest, only perhaps a trifle more
erratic. With them or without them, the course of things would have been much the same.

As an illustration of the truth of his view, he would point to the new science of Political
Economy. Here already was a large area of human activity in which natural laws were found to
act unerringly. Men had gone on for centuries trying to regulate trade on moral principles.
They would fix wages according to some imaginary rule of fairness; they would fix prices by
what they considered things ought to cost; they encouraged one trade or discouraged another,
for moral reasons. They might as well have tried to work a steam-engine on moral reasons. The
great statesmen whose names were connected with these enterprises might have as well legislated
that water should run up-hill. There were natural laws, fixed in the conditions of things:
and to contend against them was the old battle of the Titans against the gods.

As it was with political economy, so it was with all other forms of human activity; and as
the true laws of political economy explained the troubles which people fell into in old times,
because they were ignorant of them, so the true laws of human nature, as soon as we knew them,
would explain their mistakes in more serious matters, and enable us to manage better for the
future. Geographical position, climate, air, soil, and the like, had their several influences.
The northern nations are hardy and industrious, because they must till the earth if they would
eat the fruits of it, and because the temperature is too low to make an idle life enjoyable.
In the south, the soil is more productive, while less food is wanted and fewer clothes; and
in the exquisite air, exertion is not needed to make the sense of existence delightful. Therefore,
in the south we find men lazy and indolent.

True, there are difficulties in these views; the home of the languid Italian was the home also
of the sternest race of whom the story of mankind retains a record. And again, when we are
told that the Spaniards are superstitious, because Spain is a country of earthquakes, we remember
Japan, the spot in all the world where earthquakes are most frequent, and where at the same
time there is the most serene disbelief in any supernatural agency whatsoever.

Moreover, if men grow into what they are by natural laws, they cannot help being what they
are; and if they cannot help being what they are, a good deal will have to be altered in our
general view of human obligations and responsibilities.

That, however, in these theories there is a great deal of truth is quite certain; were there
but a hope that those who maintain them would be contented with that admission. A man born
in a Mahometan country grows up a Mahometan; in a Catholic country, a Catholic; in a Protestant
country, a Protestant. His opinions are like his language; he learns to think as he learns
to speak; and it is absurd to suppose him responsible for being what nature makes him. We take
pains to educate children. There is a good education and a bad education; there are rules well
ascertained by which characters are influenced, and, clearly enough, it is no mere matter for
a boy's free will whether he turns out well or ill. We try to train him into good habits; we
keep him out of the way of temptations; we see that he is well taught; we mix kindness and
strictness; we surround him with every good influence we can command. These are what are termed
the advantages of a good education: and if we fail to provide those under our care with it,
and if they go wrong, the responsibility we feel is as much ours as theirs. This is at once
an admission of the power over us of outward circumstances.

In the same way, we allow for the strength of temptations, and the like.

In general, it is perfectly obvious that men do necessarily absorb, out of the influences in
which they grow up, something which gives a complexion to their whole after-character.

When historians have to relate great social or speculative changes, the overthrow of a monarchy
or the establishment of a creed, they do but half their duty if they merely relate the events.
In an account, for instance, of the rise of Mahometanism, it is not enough to describe the
character of the Prophet, the ends which he set before him, the means which he made use of,
and the effect which he produced; the historian must show what there was in the condition of
the Eastern races which enabled Mahomet to act upon them so powerfully; their existing beliefs,
their existing moral and political condition.

In our estimate of the past, and in our calculations of the future--in the judgments which
we pass upon one another, we measure responsibility, not by the thing done, but by the opportunities
which people have had of knowing better or worse. In the efforts which we make to keep our
children from bad associations or friends we admit that external circumstances have a powerful
effect in making men what they are.

But are circumstances everything? That is the whole question. A science of history, if it is
more than a misleading name, implies that the relation between cause and effect holds in human
things as completely as in all others, that the origin of human actions is not to be looked
for in mysterious properties of the mind, but in influences which are palpable and ponderable.

When natural causes are liable to be set aside and neutralised by what is called volition,
the word Science is out of place. If it is free to a man to choose what he will do or not do,
there is no adequate science of him. If there is a science of him, there is no free choice,
and the praise or blame with which we regard one another are impertinent and out of place.

I am trespassing upon these ethical grounds because, unless I do, the subject cannot be made
intelligible. Mankind are but an aggregate of individuals--History is but the record of individual
action; and what is true of the part, is true of the whole.

We feel keenly about such things, and when the logic becomes perplexing, we are apt to grow
rhetorical about them. But rhetoric is only misleading. Whatever the truth may be, it is best
that we should know it; and for truth of any kind we should keep our heads and hearts as cool
as we can.

I will say at once, that if we had the whole case before us--if we were taken, like Leibnitz's
Tarquin, into the council chamber of nature, and were shown what we really were, where we came
from, and where we were going, however unpleasant it might be for some of us to find ourselves,
like Tarquin, made into villains, from the subtle necessities of 'the best of all possible
worlds;' nevertheless, some such theory as Mr. Buckle's might possibly turn out to be true.
Likely enough, there is some great 'equation of the universe' where the value of the unknown
quantities can be determined. But we must treat things in relation to our own powers and position;
and the question is, whether the sweep of those vast curves can be measured by the intellect
of creatures of a day like ourselves.

The 'Faust' of Goethe, tired of the barren round of earthly knowledge, calls magic to his aid.
He desires, first, to see the spirit of the Macrocosmos, but his heart fails him before he
ventures that tremendous experiment, and he summons before him, instead, the spirit of his
own race. There he feels himself at home. The stream of life and the storm of action, the everlasting
ocean of existence, the web and the woof, and the roaring loom of time--he gazes upon them
all, and in passionate exultation claims fellowship with the awful thing before him. But the
majestic vision fades, and a voice comes to him--'Thou art fellow with the spirits which thy
mind can grasp--not with me.'

Had Mr. Buckle tried to follow his principles into detail, it might have fared no better with
him than with 'Faust.'

What are the conditions of a science? and when may any subject be said to enter the scientific
stage? I suppose when the facts of it begin to resolve themselves into groups; when phenomena
are no longer isolated experiences, but appear in connection and order; when, after certain
antecedents, certain consequences are uniformly seen to follow; when facts enough have been
collected to furnish a basis for conjectural explanation, and when conjectures have so far
ceased to be utterly vague, that it is possible in some degree to foresee the future by the
help of them.

Till a subject has advanced as far as this, to speak of a science of it is an abuse of language.
It is not enough to say that there must be a science of human things, because there is a science
of all other things. This is like saying the planets must be inhabited, because the only planet
of which we have any experience is inhabited. It may or may not be true, but it is not a practical
question; it does not affect the practical treatment of the matter in hand.

Let us look at the history of Astronomy.

So long as sun, moon, and planets were supposed to be gods or angels; so long as the sword
of Orion was not a metaphor, but a fact, and the groups of stars which inlaid the floor of
heaven were the glittering trophies of the loves and wars of the Pantheon, so long there was
no science of Astronomy. There was fancy, imagination, poetry, perhaps reverence, but no science.
As soon, however, as it was observed that the stars retained their relative places--that the
times of their rising and setting varied with the seasons--that sun, moon, and planets moved
among them in a plane, and the belt of the Zodiac was marked out and divided, then a new order
of things began. Traces of the earlier stage remained in the names of the signs and constellations,
just as the Scandinavian mythology survives now in the names of the days of the week: but for
all that, the understanding was now at work on the thing; Science had begun, and the first
triumph of it was the power of foretelling the future. Eclipses were perceived to recur in
cycles of nineteen years, and philosophers were able to say when an eclipse was to be looked
for. The periods of the planets were determined. Theories were invented to account for their
eccentricities; and, false as those theories might be, the position of the planets could be
calculated with moderate certainty by them. The very first result of the science, in its most
imperfect stage, was a power of foresight; and this was possible before any one true astronomical
law had been discovered.

We should not therefore question the possibility of a science of history, because the explanations
of its phenomena were rudimentary or imperfect: that they might be, and might long continue
to be, and yet enough might be done to show that there was such a thing, and that it was not
entirely without use. But how was it that in those rude days, with small knowledge of mathematics,
and with no better instruments than flat walls and dial plates, those first astronomers made
progress so considerable? Because, I suppose, the phenomena which they were observing recurred,
for the most part, within moderate intervals; so that they could collect large experience within
the compass of their natural lives: because days and months and years were measurable periods,
and within them the more simple phenomena perpetually repeated themselves.

But how would it have been if, instead of turning on its axis once in twenty-four hours, the
earth had taken a year about it; if the year had been nearly four hundred years; if man's life
had been no longer than it is, and for the initial steps of astronomy there had been nothing
to depend upon except observations recorded in history? How many ages would have passed, had
this been our condition, before it would have occurred to any one, that, in what they saw night
after night, there was any kind of order at all?

We can see to some extent how it would have been, by the present state of those parts of the
science which in fact depend on remote recorded observations. The movements of the comets are
still extremely uncertain. The times of their return can be calculated only with the greatest
vagueness.

And yet such a hypothesis as I have suggested would but inadequately express the position in
which we are in fact placed towards history. There the phenomena never repeat themselves. There
we are dependent wholly on the record of things said to have happened once, but which never
happen or can happen a second time. There no experiment is possible; we can watch for no recurring
fact to test the worth of our conjectures. It has been suggested, fancifully, that if we consider
the universe to be infinite, time is the same as eternity, and the past is perpetually present.
Light takes nine years to come to us from Sirius; those rays which we may see to-night when
we leave this place, left Sirius nine years ago; and could the inhabitants of Sirius see the
earth at this moment, they would see the English army in the trenches before Sebastopol; Florence
Nightingale watching at Scutari over the wounded at Inkermann; and the peace of England undisturbed
by 'Essays and Reviews.'

As the stars recede into distance, so time recedes with them, and there may be, and probably
are, stars from which Noah might be seen stepping into the ark, Eve listening to the temptation
of the serpent, or that older race, eating the oysters and leaving the shell-heaps behind them,
when the Baltic was an open sea.

Could we but compare notes, something might be done; but of this there is no present hope,
and without it there will be no science of history. Eclipses, recorded in ancient books, can
be verified by calculation, and lost dates can be recovered by them, and we can foresee by
the laws which they follow when there will be eclipses again. Will a time ever be when the
lost secret of the foundation of Rome can be recovered by historic laws? If not, where is our
science? It may be said that this is a particular fact, that we can deal satisfactorily with
general phenomena affecting eras and cycles. Well, then, let us take some general phenomenon.
Mahometanism, for instance, or Buddhism. Those are large enough. Can you imagine a science
which would have[A] foretold such movements as those? The state of things out of which they
rose is obscure; but suppose it not obscure, can you conceive that, with any amount of historical
insight into the old Oriental beliefs, you could have seen that they were about to transform
themselves into those particular forms and no other?

It is not enough to say, that, after the fact, you can understand partially how Mahometanism
came to be. All historians worth the name have told us something about that. But when we talk
of science, we mean something with more ambitious pretences, we mean something which can foresee
as well as explain; and, thus looked at, to state the problem is to show its absurdity. As
little could the wisest man have foreseen this mighty revolution, as thirty years ago such
a thing as Mormonism could have been anticipated in America; as little as it could have been
foreseen that table-turning and spirit-rapping would have been an outcome of the scientific
culture of England in the nineteenth century.

The greatest of Roman thinkers, gazing mournfully at the seething mass of moral putrefaction
round him, detected and deigned to notice among its elements a certain detestable superstition,
so he called it, rising up amidst the offscouring of the Jews, which was named Christianity.
Could Tacitus have looked forward nine centuries to the Rome of Gregory VII., could he have
beheld the representative of the majesty of the Cæsars holding the stirrup of the Pontiff of
that vile and execrated sect, the spectacle would scarcely have appeared to him the fulfilment
of a rational expectation, or an intelligible result of the causes in operation round him.
Tacitus, indeed, was born before the science of history; but would M. Comte have seen any more
clearly?

Nor is the case much better if we are less hard upon our philosophy; if we content ourselves
with the past, and require only a scientific explanation of that.

First, for the facts themselves. They come to us through the minds of those who recorded them,
neither machines nor angels, but fallible creatures, with human passions and prejudices. Tacitus
and Thucydides were perhaps the ablest men who ever gave themselves to writing history; the
ablest, and also the most incapable of conscious falsehood. Yet even now, after all these centuries,
the truth of what they relate is called in question. Good reasons can be given to show that
neither of them can be confidently trusted. If we doubt with these, whom are we to believe?

Or again, let the facts be granted. To revert to my simile of the box of letters, you have
but to select such facts as suit you, you have but to leave alone those which do not suit you,
and let your theory of history be what it will, you can find no difficulty in providing facts
to prove it.

You may have your Hegel's philosophy of history, or you may have your Schlegel's philosophy
of history; you may prove from history that the world is governed in detail by a special Providence;
you may prove that there is no sign of any moral agent in the universe, except man; you may
believe, if you like it, in the old theory of the wisdom of antiquity; you may speak, as was
the fashion in the fifteenth century, of 'our fathers, who had more wit and wisdom than we;'
or you may talk of 'our barbarian ancestors,' and describe their wars as the scuffling of kites
and crows.

You may maintain that the evolution of humanity has been an unbroken progress towards perfection;
you may maintain that there has been no progress at all, and that man remains the same poor
creature that he ever was; or, lastly, you may say with the author of the 'Contrat Social,'
that men were purest and best in primeval simplicity--

    When wild in woods the noble savage ran.

In all, or any of these views, history will stand your friend. History, in its passive irony,
will make no objection. Like Jarno, in Goethe's novel, it will not condescend to argue with
you, and will provide you with abundant illustrations of anything which you may wish to believe.

'What is history,' said Napoleon, 'but a fiction agreed upon?' 'My friend,' said Faust to the
student, who was growing enthusiastic about the spirit of past ages; 'my friend, the times
which are gone are a book with seven seals; and what you call the spirit of past ages is but
the spirit of this or that worthy gentleman in whose mind those ages are reflected.'

One lesson, and only one, history may be said to repeat with distinctness; that the world is
built somehow on moral foundations; that, in the long run, it is well with the good; in the
long run, it is ill with the wicked. But this is no science; it is no more than the old doctrine
taught long ago by the Hebrew prophets. The theories of M. Comte and his disciples advance
us, after all, not a step beyond the trodden and familiar ground. If men are not entirely animals,
they are at least half animals, and are subject in this aspect of them to the conditions of
animals. So far as those parts of man's doings are concerned, which neither have, nor need
have, anything moral about them, so far the laws of him are calculable. There are laws for
his digestion, and laws of the means by which his digestive organs are supplied with matter.
But pass beyond them, and where are we? In a world where it would be as easy to calculate men's
actions by laws like those of positive philosophy as to measure the orbit of Neptune with a
foot-rule, or weigh Sirius in a grocer's scale.

And it is not difficult to see why this should be. The first principle on which the theory
of a science of history can be plausibly argued, is that all actions whatsoever arise from
self-interest. It may be enlightened self-interest; it may be unenlightened; but it is assumed
as an axiom, that every man, in whatever he does, is aiming at something which he considers
will promote his happiness. His conduct is not determined by his will; it is determined by
the object of his desire. Adam Smith, in laying the foundations of political economy, expressly
eliminates every other motive. He does not say that men never act on other motives; still less,
that they never ought to act on other motives. He asserts merely that, as far as the arts of
production are concerned, and of buying and selling, the action of self-interest may be counted
upon as uniform. What Adam Smith says of political economy, Mr. Buckle would extend over the
whole circle of human activity.

Now, that which especially distinguishes a high order of man from a low order of man--that
which constitutes human goodness, human greatness, human nobleness--is surely not the degree
of enlightenment with which men pursue their own advantage; but it is self-forgetfulness--it
is self-sacrifice--it is the disregard of personal pleasure, personal indulgence, personal
advantages remote or present, because some other line of conduct is more right.

We are sometimes told that this is but another way of expressing the same thing; that when
a man prefers doing what is right, it is only because to do right gives him a higher satisfaction.
It appears to me, on the contrary, to be a difference in the very heart and nature of things.
The martyr goes to the stake, the patriot to the scaffold, not with a view to any future reward
to themselves, but because it is a glory to fling away their lives for truth and freedom. And
so through all phases of existence, to the smallest details of common life, the beautiful character
is the unselfish character. Those whom we most love and admire are those to whom the thought
of self seems never to occur; who do simply and with no ulterior aim--with no thought whether
it will be pleasant to themselves or unpleasant--that which is good, and right, and generous.

Is this still selfishness, only more enlightened? I do not think so. The essence of true nobility
is neglect of self. Let the thought of self pass in, and the beauty of a great action is gone--like
the bloom from a soiled flower. Surely it is a paradox to speak of the self-interest of a martyr
who dies for a cause, the triumph of which he will never enjoy; and the greatest of that great
company in all ages would have done what they did, had their personal prospects closed with
the grave. Nay, there have been those so zealous for some glorious principle, as to wish themselves
blotted out of the book of Heaven if the cause of Heaven could succeed.

And out of this mysterious quality, whatever it be, arise the higher relations of human life,
the higher modes of human obligation. Kant, the philosopher, used to say that there were two
things which overwhelmed him with awe as he thought of them. One was the star-sown deep of
space, without limit and without end; the other was, right and wrong. Right, the sacrifice
of self to good; wrong, the sacrifice of good to self;--not graduated objects of desire, to
which we are determined by the degrees of our knowledge, but wide asunder as pole and pole,
as light and darkness--one, the object of infinite love; the other, the object of infinite
detestation and scorn. It is in this marvellous power in men to do wrong (it is an old story,
but none the less true for that)--it is in this power to do wrong--wrong or right, as it lies
somehow with ourselves to choose--that the impossibility stands of forming scientific calculations
of what men will do before the fact, or scientific explanations of what they have done after
the fact. If men were consistently selfish, you might analyse their motives; if they were consistently
noble, they would express in their conduct the laws of the highest perfection. But so long
as two natures are mixed together, and the strange creature which results from the combination
is now under one influence and now under another, so long you will make nothing of him except
from the old-fashioned moral--or, if you please, imaginative--point of view.

Even the laws of political economy itself cease to guide us when they touch moral government.
So long as labour is a chattel to be bought and sold, so long, like other commodities, it follows
the condition of supply and demand. But if, for his misfortune, an employer considers that
he stands in human relations towards his workmen; if he believes, rightly or wrongly, that
he is responsible for them; that in return for their labour he is bound to see that their children
are decently taught, and they and their families decently fed and clothed and lodged; that
he ought to care for them in sickness and in old age; then political economy will no longer
direct him, and the relations between himself and his dependents will have to be arranged on
quite other principles.

So long as he considers only his own material profit, so long supply and demand will settle
every difficulty; but the introduction of a new factor spoils the equation.

And it is precisely in this debatable ground of low motives and noble emotions--in the struggle,
ever failing, yet ever renewed, to carry truth and justice into the administration of human
society; in the establishment of states and in the overthrow of tyrannies; in the rise and
fall of creeds; in the world of ideas; in the character and deeds of the great actors in the
drama of life; where good and evil fight out their everlasting battle, now ranged in opposite
camps, now and more often in the heart, both of them, of each living man--that the true human
interest of history resides. The progress of industries, the growth of material and mechanical
civilisation, are interesting, but they are not the most interesting. They have their reward
in the increase of material comforts; but, unless we are mistaken about our nature, they do
not highly concern us after all.

Once more; not only is there in men this baffling duality of principle, but there is something
else in us which still more defies scientific analysis.

Mr. Buckle would deliver himself from the eccentricities of this and that individual by a doctrine
of averages. Though he cannot tell whether A, B, or C will cut his throat, he may assure himself
that one man in every fifty thousand, or thereabout (I forget the exact proportion), will cut
his throat, and with this he consoles himself. No doubt it is a comforting discovery. Unfortunately,
the average of one generation need not be the average of the next. We may be converted by the
Japanese, for all that we know, and the Japanese methods of taking leave of life may become
fashionable among us. Nay, did not Novalis suggest that the whole race of men would at last
become so disgusted with their impotence, that they would extinguish themselves by a simultaneous
act of suicide, and make room for a better order of beings? Anyhow, the fountain out of which
the race is flowing perpetually changes--no two generations are alike. Whether there is a change
in the organisation itself, we cannot tell; but this is certain, that as the planet varies
with the atmosphere which surrounds it, so each new generation varies from the last, because
it inhales as its atmosphere the accumulated experience and knowledge of the whole past of
the world. These things form the spiritual air which we breathe as we grow; and in the infinite
multiplicity of elements of which that air is now composed, it is for ever matter of conjecture
what the minds will be like which expand under its influence.

From the England of Fielding and Richardson to the England of Miss Austen--from the England
of Miss Austen to the England of Railways and Free-trade, how vast the change; yet perhaps
Sir Charles Grandison would not seem so strange to us now, as one of ourselves will seem to
our great-grandchildren. The world moves faster and faster; and the difference will probably
be considerably greater.

The temper of each new generation is a continual surprise. The fates delight to contradict
our most confident expectations. Gibbon believed that the era of conquerors was at an end.
Had he lived out the full life of man, he would have seen Europe at the feet of Napoleon. But
a few years ago we believed the world had grown too civilised for war, and the Crystal Palace
in Hyde Park was to be the inauguration of a new era. Battles, bloody as Napoleon's, are now
the familiar tale of every day; and the arts which have made greatest progress are the arts
of destruction. What next? We may strain our eyes into the future which lies beyond this waning
century; but never was conjecture more at fault. It is blank darkness, which even the imagination
fails to people.

What then is the use of History? and what are its lessons? If it can tell us little of the
past, and nothing of the future, why waste our time over so barren a study?

First, it is a voice for ever sounding across the centuries the laws of right and wrong. Opinions
alter, manners change, creeds rise and fall, but the moral law is written on the tablets of
eternity. For every false word or unrighteous deed, for cruelty and oppression, for lust or
vanity, the price has to be paid at last: not always by the chief offenders, but paid by some
one. Justice and truth alone endure and live. Injustice and falsehood may be long-lived, but
doomsday comes at last to them, in French revolutions and other terrible ways.

That is one lesson of History. Another is, that we should draw no horoscopes; that we should
expect little, for what we expect will not come to pass. Revolutions, reformations--those vast
movements into which heroes and saints have flung themselves, in the belief that they were
the dawn of the millennium--have not borne the fruit which they looked for. Millenniums are
still far away. These great convulsions leave the world changed--perhaps improved,--but not
improved as the actors in them hoped it would be. Luther would have gone to work with less
heart, could he have foreseen the Thirty Years' War, and in the distance the theology of Tubingen.
Washington might have hesitated to draw the sword against England, could he have seen the country
which he made as we see it now.[B]

The most reasonable anticipations fail us--antecedents the most apposite mislead us; because
the conditions of human problems never repeat themselves. Some new feature alters everything--some
element which we detect only in its after-operation.

But this, it may be said, is but a meagre outcome. Can the long records of humanity, with all
its joys and sorrows, its sufferings and its conquests, teach us no more than this? Let us
approach the subject from another side.

If you were asked to point out the special features in which Shakespeare's plays are so transcendently
excellent, you would mention, perhaps, among others, this, that his stories are not put together,
and his characters are not conceived, to illustrate any particular law or principle. They teach
many lessons, but not any one prominent above another; and when we have drawn from them all
the direct instruction which they contain, there remains still something unresolved--something
which the artist gives, and which the philosopher cannot give.

It is in this characteristic that we are accustomed to say Shakespeare's supreme truth lies.
He represents real life. His dramas teach as life teaches--neither less nor more. He builds
his fabrics as nature does, on right and wrong; but he does not struggle to make nature more
systematic than she is. In the subtle interflow of good and evil--in the unmerited sufferings
of innocence--in the disproportion of penalties to desert--in the seeming blindness with which
justice, in attempting to assert itself, overwhelms innocent and guilty in a common ruin--Shakespeare
is true to real experience. The mystery of life he leaves as he finds it; and, in his most
tremendous positions, he is addressing rather the intellectual emotions than the understanding,--knowing
well that the understanding in such things is at fault, and the sage as ignorant as the child.

Only the highest order of genius can represent nature thus. An inferior artist produces either
something entirely immoral, where good and evil are names, and nobility of disposition is supposed
to show itself in the absolute disregard of them--or else, if he is a better kind of man, he
will force on nature a didactic purpose; he composes what are called moral tales, which may
edify the conscience, but only mislead the intellect.

The finest work of this kind produced in modern times is Lessing's play of 'Nathan the Wise.'
The object of it is to teach religious toleration. The doctrine is admirable--the mode in which
it is enforced is interesting; but it has the fatal fault, that it is not true. Nature does
not teach religious toleration by any such direct method; and the result is--no one knew it
better than Lessing himself--that the play is not poetry, but only splendid manufacture. Shakespeare
is eternal; Lessing's 'Nathan' will pass away with the mode of thought which gave it birth.
One is based on fact; the other, on human theory about fact. The theory seems at first sight
to contain the most immediate instruction; but it is not really so.

Cibber and others, as you know, wanted to alter Shakespeare. The French king, in 'Lear,' was
to be got rid of; Cordelia was to marry Edgar, and Lear himself was to be rewarded for his
sufferings by a golden old age. They could not bear that Hamlet should suffer for the sins
of Claudius. The wicked king was to die, and the wicked mother; and Hamlet and Ophelia were
to make a match of it, and live happily ever after. A common novelist would have arranged it
thus; and you would have had your comfortable moral that wickedness was fitly punished, and
virtue had its due reward, and all would have been well. But Shakespeare would not have it
so. Shakespeare knew that crime was not so simple in its consequences, or Providence so paternal.
He was contented to take the truth from life; and the effect upon the mind of the most correct
theory of what life ought to be, compared to the effect of the life itself, is infinitesimal
in comparison.

Again, let us compare the popular historical treatment of remarkable incidents with Shakespeare's
treatment of them. Look at 'Macbeth.' You may derive abundant instruction from it--instruction
of many kinds. There is a moral lesson of profound interest in the steps by which a noble nature
glides to perdition. In more modern fashion you may speculate, if you like, on the political
conditions represented there, and the temptation presented in absolute monarchies to unscrupulous
ambition; you may say, like Dr. Slop, these things could not have happened under a constitutional
government; or, again, you may take up your parable against superstition--you may dilate on
the frightful consequences of a belief in witches, and reflect on the superior advantages of
an age of schools and newspapers. If the bare facts of the story had come down to us from a
chronicler, and an ordinary writer of the nineteenth century had undertaken to relate them,
his account, we may depend upon it, would have been put together upon one or other of these
principles. Yet, by the side of that unfolding of the secrets of the prison-house of the soul,
what lean and shrivelled anatomies the best of such descriptions would seem!

Shakespeare himself, I suppose, could not have given us a theory of what he meant--he gave
us the thing itself, on which we might make whatever theories we pleased.

Or again, look at Homer.

The 'Iliad' is from two to three thousand years older than 'Macbeth,' and yet it is as fresh
as if it had been written yesterday. We have there no lessons save in the emotions which rise
in us as we read. Homer had no philosophy; he never struggles to impress upon us his views
about this or that; you can scarcely tell indeed whether his sympathies are Greek or Trojan;
but he represents to us faithfully the men and women among whom he lived. He sang the Tale
of Troy, he touched his lyre, he drained the golden beaker in the halls of men like those on
whom he was conferring immortality. And thus, although no Agamemnon, king of men, ever led
a Grecian fleet to Ilium; though no Priam sought the midnight tent of Achilles; though Ulysses
and Diomed and Nestor were but names, and Helen but a dream, yet, through Homer's power of
representing men and women, those old Greeks will still stand out from amidst the darkness
of the ancient world with a sharpness of outline which belongs to no period of history except
the most recent. For the mere hard purposes of history, the 'Iliad' and 'Odyssey' are the most
effective books which ever were written. We see the Hall of Menelaus, we see the garden of
Alcinous, we see Nausicaa among her maidens on the shore, we see the mellow monarch sitting
with ivory sceptre in the Marketplace dealing out genial justice. Or again, when the wild mood
is on, we can hear the crash of the spears, the rattle of the armour as the heroes fall, and
the plunging of the horses among the slain. Could we enter the palace of an old Ionian lord,
we know what we should see there; we know the words in which he would address us. We could
meet Hector as a friend. If we could choose a companion to spend an evening with over a fireside,
it would be the man of many counsels, the husband of Penelope.

I am not going into the vexed question whether History or Poetry is the more true. It has been
sometimes said that Poetry is the more true, because it can make things more like what our
moral sense would prefer they should be. We hear of poetic justice and the like, as if nature
and fact were not just enough.

I entirely dissent from that view. So far as Poetry attempts to improve on truth in that way,
so far it abandons truth, and is false to itself. Even literal facts, exactly as they were,
a great poet will prefer whenever he can get them. Shakespeare in the historical plays is studious,
wherever possible, to give the very words which he finds to have been used; and it shows how
wisely he was guided in this, that those magnificent speeches of Wolsey are taken exactly,
with no more change than the metre makes necessary, from Cavendish's Life. Marlborough read
Shakespeare for English history, and read nothing else. The poet only is not bound, when it
is inconvenient, to what may be called the accidents of facts. It was enough for Shakespeare
to know that Prince Hal in his youth had lived among loose companions, and the tavern in Eastcheap
came in to fill out his picture; although Mrs. Quickly and Falstaff, and Poins and Bardolph
were more likely to have been fallen in with by Shakespeare himself at the Mermaid, than to
have been comrades of the true Prince Henry. It was enough for Shakespeare to draw real men,
and the situation, whatever it might be, would sit easy on them. In this sense only it is that
Poetry is truer than History, that it can make a picture more complete. It may take liberties
with time and space, and give the action distinctness by throwing it into more manageable compass.

But it may not alter the real conditions of things, or represent life as other than it is.
The greatness of the poet depends on his being true to nature, without insisting that nature
shall theorise with him, without making her more just, more philosophical, more moral than
reality; and, in difficult matters, leaving much to reflection which cannot be explained.

And if this be true of Poetry--if Homer and Shakespeare are what they are, from the absence
of everything didactic about them--may we not thus learn something of what History should be,
and in what sense it should aspire to teach?

If Poetry must not theorise, much less should the historian theorise, whose obligations to
be true to fact are even greater than the poet's. If the drama is grandest when the action
is least explicable by laws, because then it best resembles life, then history will be grandest
also under the same conditions. 'Macbeth,' were it literally true, would be perfect history;
and so far as the historian can approach to that kind of model, so far as he can let his story
tell itself in the deeds and words of those who act it out, so far is he most successful. His
work is no longer the vapour of his own brain, which a breath will scatter; it is the thing
itself, which will have interest for all time. A thousand theories may be formed about it--spiritual
theories, Pantheistic theories, cause and effect theories; but each age will have its own philosophy
of history, and all these in turn will fail and die. Hegel falls out of date, Schlegel falls
out of date, and Comte in good time will fall out of date; the thought about the thing must
change as we change; but the thing itself can never change; and a history is durable or perishable
as it contains more or least of the writer's own speculations. The splendid intellect of Gibbon
for the most part kept him true to the right course in this; yet the philosophical chapters
for which he has been most admired or censured may hereafter be thought the least interesting
in his work. The time has been when they would not have been comprehended: the time may come
when they will seem commonplace.

It may be said, that in requiring history to be written like a drama, we require an impossibility.

For history to be written with the complete form of a drama, doubtless is impossible; but there
are periods, and these the periods, for the most part, of greatest interest to mankind, the
history of which may be so written that the actors shall reveal their characters in their own
words; where mind can be seen matched against mind, and the great passions of the epoch not
simply be described as existing, but be exhibited at their white heat in the souls and hearts
possessed by them. There are all the elements of drama--drama of the highest order--where the
huge forces of the times are as the Grecian destiny, and the power of the man is seen either
stemming the stream till it overwhelms him, or ruling while he seems to yield to it.

It is Nature's drama--not Shakespeare's--but a drama none the less.

So at least it seems to me. Wherever possible, let us not be told about this man or that. Let
us hear the man himself speak; let us see him act, and let us be left to form our own opinions
about him. The historian, we are told, must not leave his readers to themselves. He must not
only lay the facts before them--he must tell them what he himself thinks about those facts.
In my opinion, this is precisely what he ought not to do. Bishop Butler says somewhere, that
the best book which could be written would be a book consisting only of premises, from which
the readers should draw conclusions for themselves. The highest poetry is the very thing which
Butler requires, and the highest history ought to be. We should no more ask for a theory of
this or that period of history, than we should ask for a theory of 'Macbeth' or 'Hamlet.' Philosophies
of history, sciences of history--all these, there will continue to be; the fashions of them
will change, as our habits of thought will change; each new philosopher will find his chief
employment in showing that before him no one understood anything; but the drama of history
is imperishable, and, the lessons of it will be like what we learn from Homer or Shakespeare--lessons
for which we have no words.

The address of history is less to the understanding than to the higher emotions. We learn in
it to sympathise with what is great and good; we learn to hate what is base. In the anomalies
of fortune we feel the mystery of our mortal existence, and in the companionship of the illustrious
natures who have shaped the fortunes of the world, we escape from the littlenesses which cling
to the round of common life, and our minds are tuned in a higher and nobler key.

For the rest, and for those large questions which I touched in connection with Mr. Buckle,
we live in times of disintegration, and none can tell what will be after us. What opinions--what
convictions--the infant of to-day will find prevailing on the earth, if he and it live out
together to the middle of another century, only a very bold man would undertake to conjecture!
'The time will come,' said Lichtenberg, in scorn at the materialising tendencies of modern
thought; 'the time will come when the belief in God will be as the tales with which old women
frighten children; when the world will be a machine, the ether a gas, and God will be a force.'
Mankind, if they last long enough on the earth, may develope strange things out of themselves;
and the growth of what is called the Positive Philosophy is a curious commentary on Lichtenberg's
prophecy. But whether the end be seventy years hence, or seven hundred--be the close of the
mortal history of humanity as far distant in the future as its shadowy beginnings seem now
to lie behind us--this only we may foretell with confidence--that the riddle of man's nature
will remain unsolved. There will be that in him yet which physical laws will fail to explain--that
something, whatever it be, in himself and in the world, which science cannot fathom, and which
suggests the unknown possibilities of his origin and his destiny. There will remain yet

    Those obstinate questionings
    Of sense and outward things;
    Falling from us, vanishings--
    Blank misgivings of a creature
    Moving about in worlds not realised--
    High instincts, before which our mortal nature
    Doth tremble like a guilty thing surprised.

There will remain

    Those first affections--
    Those shadowy recollections--
    Which, be they what they may,
    Are yet the fountain-light of all our day--
    Are yet the master-light of all our seeing--
    Uphold us, cherish, and have power to make
    Our noisy years seem moments in the being
            Of the Eternal Silence.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] It is objected that Geology is a science: yet that Geology cannot foretell the future changes
of the earth's surface. Geology is not a century old, and its periods are measured by millions
of years. Yet, if Geology cannot foretell future facts, it enabled Sir Roderick Murchison to
foretell the discovery of Australian gold.

[B] February 1864.

TIMES OF ERASMUS AND LUTHER:

THREE LECTURES

DELIVERED AT NEWCASTLE, 1867.

LECTURE I.

Ladies and Gentlemen,--I do not know whether I have made a very wise selection in the subject
which I have chosen for these Lectures. There was a time--a time which, measured by the years
of our national life, was not so very long ago--when the serious thoughts of mankind were occupied
exclusively by religion and politics. The small knowledge which they possessed of other things
was tinctured by their speculative opinions on the relations of heaven and earth; and, down
to the sixteenth century, art, science, scarcely even literature, existed in this country,
except as, in some way or other, subordinate to theology. Philosophers--such philosophers as
there were--obtained and half deserved the reputation of quacks and conjurors. Astronomy was
confused with astrology. The physician's medicines were supposed to be powerless, unless the
priests said prayers over them. The great lawyers, the ambassadors, the chief ministers of
state, were generally bishops; even the fighting business was not entirely secular. Half-a-dozen
Scotch prelates were killed at Flodden; and, late in the reign of Henry the Eighth, no fitter
person could be found than Rowland Lee, Bishop of Coventry, to take command of the Welsh Marches,
and harry the freebooters of Llangollen.

Every single department of intellectual or practical life was penetrated with the beliefs,
or was interwoven with the interests, of the clergy; and thus it was that, when differences
of religious opinion arose, they split society to its foundations. The lines of cleavage penetrated
everywhere, and there were no subjects whatever in which those who disagreed in theology possessed
any common concern. When men quarrelled, they quarrelled altogether. The disturbers of settled
beliefs were regarded as public enemies who had placed themselves beyond the pale of humanity,
and were considered fit only to be destroyed like wild beasts, or trampled out like the seed
of a contagion.

Three centuries have passed over our heads since the time of which I am speaking, and the world
is so changed that we can hardly recognise it as the same.

The secrets of nature have been opened out to us on a thousand lines; and men of science of
all creeds can pursue side by side their common investigations. Catholics, Anglicans, Presbyterians,
Lutherans, Calvinists, contend with each other in honourable rivalry in arts, and literature,
and commerce, and industry. They read the same books. They study at the same academies. They
have seats in the same senates. They preside together on the judicial bench, and carry on,
without jar or difference, the ordinary business of the country.

Those who share the same pursuits are drawn in spite of themselves into sympathy and good-will.
When they are in harmony in so large a part of their occupations, the points of remaining difference
lose their venom. Those who thought they hated each other, unconsciously find themselves friends;
and as far as it affects the world at large, the acrimony of controversy has almost disappeared.

Imagine, if you can, a person being now put to death for a speculative theological opinion.
You feel at once, that in the most bigoted country in the world such a thing has become impossible;
and the impossibility is the measure of the alteration which we have all undergone. The formulas
remain as they were on either side--the very same formulas which were once supposed to require
these detestable murders. But we have learnt to know each other better. The cords which bind
together the brotherhood of mankind are woven of a thousand strands. We do not any more fly
apart or become enemies, because, here and there, in one strand out of so many, there are still
unsound places.

If I were asked for a distinct proof that Europe was improving and not retrograding, I should
find it in this phenomenon. It has not been brought about by controversy. Men are fighting
still over the same questions which they began to fight about at the Reformation. Protestant
divines have not driven Catholics out of the field, nor Catholics, Protestants. Each polemic
writes for his own partisans, and makes no impression on his adversary.

Controversy has kept alive a certain quantity of bitterness; and that, I suspect, is all that
it would accomplish if it continued till the day of judgment. I sometimes, in impatient moments,
wish the laity in Europe would treat their controversial divines as two gentlemen once treated
their seconds, when they found themselves forced into a duel without knowing what they were
quarrelling about.

As the principals were being led up to their places, one of them whispered to the other, 'If
you will shoot your second, I will shoot mine.'

The reconciliation of parties, if I may use such a word, is no tinkered-up truce, or convenient
Interim. It is the healthy, silent, spontaneous growth of a nobler order of conviction, which
has conquered our prejudices even before we knew that they were assailed. This better spirit
especially is represented in institutions like this, which acknowledge no differences of creed--which
are constructed on the broadest principles of toleration--and which, therefore, as a rule,
are wisely protected from the intrusion of discordant subjects.

They exist, as I understand, to draw men together, not to divide them--to enable us to share
together in those topics of universal interest and instruction which all can take pleasure
in, and which give offence to none.

If you ask me, then, why I am myself departing from a practice which I admit to be so excellent,
I fear that I shall give you rather a lame answer. I might say that I know more about the history
of the sixteenth century than I know about anything else. I have spent the best years of my
life in reading and writing about it; and if I have anything to tell you worth your hearing,
it is probably on that subject.

Or, again, I might say--which is indeed most true--that to the Reformation we can trace, indirectly,
the best of those very influences which I have been describing. The Reformation broke the theological
shackles in which men's minds were fettered. It set them thinking, and so gave birth to science.
The Reformers also, without knowing what they were about, taught the lesson of religious toleration.
They attempted to supersede one set of dogmas by another. They succeeded with half the world--they
failed with the other half. In a little while it became apparent that good men--without ceasing
to be good--could think differently about theology, and that goodness, therefore, depended
on something else than the holding orthodox opinions.

It is not, however, for either of these reasons that I am going to talk to you about Martin
Luther; nor is toleration of differences of opinion, however excellent it be, the point on
which I shall dwell in these Lectures.

Were the Reformation a question merely of opinion, I for one should not have meddled with it,
either here or anywhere. I hold that, on the obscure mysteries of faith, every one should be
allowed to believe according to his conscience, and that arguments on such matters are either
impertinent or useless.

But the Reformation, gentlemen, beyond the region of opinions, was a historical fact--an objective
something which may be studied like any of the facts of nature. The Reformers were men of note
and distinction, who played a great part for good or evil on the stage of the world. If we
except the Apostles, no body of human beings ever printed so deep a mark into the organisation
of society; and if there be any value or meaning in history at all, the lives, the actions,
the characters of such men as these can be matters of indifference to none of us.

We have not to do with a story which is buried in obscure antiquity. The facts admit of being
learnt. The truth, whatever it was, concerns us all equally. If the divisions created by that
great convulsion are ever to be obliterated, it will be when we have learnt, each of us, to
see the thing as it really was, and not rather some mythical or imaginative version of the
thing--such as from our own point of view we like to think it was. Fiction in such matters
may be convenient for our immediate theories, but it is certain to avenge itself in the end.
We may make our own opinions, but facts were made for us; and if we evade or deny them, it
will be the worse for us.

Unfortunately, the mythical version at present very largely preponderates. Open a Protestant
history of the Reformation, and you will find a picture of the world given over to a lying
tyranny--the Christian population of Europe enslaved by a corrupt and degraded priesthood,
and the Reformers, with the Bible in their hands, coming to the rescue like angels of light.
All is black on one side--all is fair and beautiful on the other.

Turn to a Catholic history of the same events and the same men, and we have before us the Church
of the Saints fulfilling quietly its blessed mission in the saving of human souls. Satan a
second time enters into Paradise, and a second time with fatal success tempts miserable man
to his ruin. He disbelieves his appointed teachers, he aspires after forbidden knowledge, and
at once anarchy breaks loose. The seamless robe of the Saviour is rent in pieces, and the earth
becomes the habitation of fiends.

Each side tells the story as it prefers to have it; facts, characters, circumstances, are melted
in the theological crucible, and cast in moulds diametrically opposite. Nothing remains the
same except the names and dates. Each side chooses its own witnesses. Everything is credible
which makes for what it calls the truth. Everything is made false which will not fit into its
place. 'Blasphemous fables' is the usual expression in Protestant controversial books for the
accounts given by Catholics. 'Protestant tradition,' says an eminent modern Catholic, 'is based
on lying--bold, wholesale, unscrupulous lying.'

Now, depend upon it, there is some human account of the matter different from both these if
we could only get at it, and it will be an excellent thing for the world when that human account
can be made out. I am not so presumptuous as to suppose that I can give it to you; still less
can you expect me to try to do so within the compass of two or three lectures. If I cannot
do everything, however, I believe I can do a little; at any rate I can give you a sketch, such
as you may place moderate confidence in, of the state of the Church as it was before the Reformation
began. I will not expose myself more than I can help to the censure of the divine who was so
hard on Protestant tradition. Most of what I shall have to say to you this evening will be
taken from the admissions of Catholics themselves, or from official records earlier than the
outbreak of the controversy, when there was no temptation to pervert the truth.

Here, obviously, is the first point on which we require accurate information. If all was going
on well, the Reformers really and truly told innumerable lies, and deserve all the reprobation
which we can give them. If all was not going on well--if, so far from being well, the Church
was so corrupt that Europe could bear with it no longer--then clearly a Reformation was necessary
of some kind; and we have taken one step towards a fair estimate of the persons concerned in it.

A fair estimate--that, and only that, is what we want. I need hardly observe to you, that opinion
in England has been undergoing lately a very considerable alteration about these persons.

Two generations ago, the leading Reformers were looked upon as little less than saints; now
a party has risen up who intend, as they frankly tell us, to un-Protestantise the Church of
England, who detest Protestantism as a kind of infidelity, who desire simply to reverse everything
which the Reformers did.

One of these gentlemen, a clergyman, writing lately of Luther, called him a heretic, a heretic
fit only to be ranked with--whom, do you think?--Joe Smith, the Mormon Prophet. Joe Smith and
Luther--that is the combination with which we are now presented.

The book in which this remarkable statement appeared was presented by two bishops to the Upper
House of Convocation. It was received with gracious acknowledgments by the Archbishop of Canterbury,
and was placed solemnly in the library of reference, for that learned body to consult.

So, too, a professor at Oxford, the other day, spoke of Luther as a Philistine--a Philistine
meaning an oppressor of the chosen people; the enemy of men of culture, of intelligence, such
as the professor himself.

One notices these things, not as of much importance in themselves, but as showing which way
the stream is running; and, curiously enough, in quite another direction we may see the same
phenomenon. Our liberal philosophers, men of high literary power and reputation, looking into
the history of Luther, and Calvin, and John Knox, and the rest, find them falling far short
of the philosophic ideal--wanting sadly in many qualities which the liberal mind cannot dispense
with. They are discovered to be intolerant, dogmatic, narrow-minded, inclined to persecute
Catholics as Catholics had persecuted them; to be, in fact, little if at all better than the
popes and cardinals whom they were fighting against.

Lord Macaulay can hardly find epithets strong enough to express his contempt for Archbishop
Cranmer. Mr. Buckle places Cranmer by the side of Bonner, and hesitates which of the two characters
is the more detestable.

An unfavourable estimate of the Reformers, whether just or unjust, is unquestionably gaining
ground among our advanced thinkers. A greater man than either Macaulay or Buckle--the German
poet, Goethe--says of Luther, that he threw back the intellectual progress of mankind for centuries,
by calling in the passions of the multitude to decide on subjects which ought to have been
left to the learned. Goethe, in saying this, was alluding especially to Erasmus. Goethe thought
that Erasmus, and men like Erasmus, had struck upon the right track; and if they could have
retained the direction of the mind of Europe, there would have been more truth, and less falsehood,
among us at this present time. The party hatreds, the theological rivalries, the persecutions,
the civil wars, the religious animosities which have so long distracted us, would have been
all avoided, and the mind of mankind would have expanded gradually and equably with the growth
of knowledge.

Such an opinion, coming from so great a man, is not to be lightly passed over. It will be my
endeavour to show you what kind of man Erasmus was, what he was aiming at, what he was doing,
and how Luther spoilt his work--if spoiling is the word which we are to use for it.

One caution, however, I must in fairness give you before we proceed further. It lies upon the
face of the story, that the Reformers imperfectly understood toleration; but you must keep
before you the spirit and temper of the men with whom they had to deal. For themselves, when
the movement began, they aimed at nothing but liberty to think and speak their own way. They
never dreamt of interfering with others, although they were quite aware that others, when they
could, were likely to interfere with them. Lord Macaulay might have remembered that Cranmer
was working all his life with the prospect of being burnt alive as his reward--and, as we all
know, he actually was burnt alive.

When the Protestant teaching began first to spread in the Netherlands--before one single Catholic
had been illtreated there, before a symptom of a mutinous disposition had shown itself among
the people, an edict was issued by the authorities for the suppression of the new opinions.

The terms of this edict I will briefly describe to you.

The inhabitants of the United Provinces were informed that they were to hold and believe the
doctrines of the Holy Roman Catholic Church. 'Men and women,' says the edict, 'who disobey
this command shall be punished as disturbers of public order. Women who have fallen into heresy
shall be buried alive. Men, if they recant, shall lose their heads. If they continue obstinate,
they shall be burnt at the stake.

'If man or woman be suspected of heresy, no one shall shelter or protect him or her; and no
stranger shall be admitted to lodge in any inn or dwelling-house unless he bring with him a
testimonial of orthodoxy from the priest of his parish.

'The Inquisition shall enquire into the private opinions of every person, of whatever degree;
and all officers of all kinds shall assist the Inquisition at their peril. Those who know where
heretics are concealed, shall denounce them, or they shall suffer as heretics themselves. Heretics
(observe the malignity of this paragraph)--heretics who will give up other heretics to justice,
shall themselves be pardoned if they will promise to conform for the future.'

Under this edict, in the Netherlands alone, more than fifty thousand human beings, first and
last, were deliberately murdered. And, gentlemen, I must say that proceedings of this kind
explain and go far to excuse the subsequent intolerance of Protestants.

Intolerance, Mr. Gibbon tells us, is a greater crime in a Protestant than a Catholic. Criminal
intolerance, as I understand it, is the intolerance of such an edict as that which I have read
to you--the unprovoked intolerance of difference of opinion. I conceive that the most enlightened
philosopher might have grown hard and narrow-minded if he had suffered under the administration
of the Duke of Alva.

Dismissing these considerations, I will now go on with my subject.

Never in all their history, in ancient times or modern, never that we know of, have mankind
thrown out of themselves anything so grand, so useful, so beautiful, as the Catholic Church
once was. In these times of ours, well-regulated selfishness is the recognised rule of action--every
one of us is expected to look out first for himself, and take care of his own interests. At
the time I speak of, the Church ruled the State with the authority of a conscience; and self-interest,
as a motive of action, was only named to be abhorred. The bishops and clergy were regarded
freely and simply as the immediate ministers of the Almighty; and they seem to me to have really
deserved that high estimate of their character. It was not for the doctrines which they taught,
only or chiefly, that they were held in honour. Brave men do not fall down before their fellow-mortals
for the words which they speak, or for the rites which they perform. Wisdom, justice, self-denial,
nobleness, purity, highmindedness,--these are the qualities before which the free-born races
of Europe have been contented to bow; and in no order of men were such qualities to be found
as they were found six hundred years ago in the clergy of the Catholic Church. They called
themselves the successors of the Apostles. They claimed in their Master's name universal spiritual
authority, but they made good their pretensions by the holiness of their own lives. They were
allowed to rule because they deserved to rule, and in the fulness of reverence kings and nobles
bent before a power which was nearer to God than their own. Over prince and subject, chieftain
and serf, a body of unarmed defenceless men reigned supreme by the magic of sanctity. They
tamed the fiery northern warriors who had broken in pieces the Roman Empire. They taught them--they
brought them really and truly to believe--that they had immortal souls, and that they would
one day stand at the awful judgment bar and give account for their lives there. With the brave,
the honest, and the good--with those who had not oppressed the poor nor removed their neighbour's
landmark--with those who had been just in all their dealings--with those who had fought against
evil, and had tried valiantly to do their Master's will,--at that great day, it would be well.
For cowards, for profligates, for those who lived for luxury and pleasure and self-indulgence,
there was the blackness of eternal death.

An awful conviction of this tremendous kind the clergy had effectually instilled into the mind
of Europe. It was not a PERHAPS; it was a certainty. It was not a form of words repeated once
a week at church; it was an assurance entertained on all days and in all places, without any
particle of doubt. And the effect of such a belief on life and conscience was simply immeasurable.

I do not pretend that the clergy were perfect. They were very far from perfect at the best
of times, and the European nations were never completely submissive to them. It would not have
been well if they had been. The business of human creatures in this planet is not summed up
in the most excellent of priestly catechisms. The world and its concerns continued to interest
men, though priests insisted on their nothingness. They could not prevent kings from quarrelling
with each other. They could not hinder disputed successions, and civil feuds, and wars, and
political conspiracies. What they did do was to shelter the weak from the strong. In the eyes
of the clergy, the serf and his lord stood on the common level of sinful humanity. Into their
ranks high birth was no passport. They were themselves for the most part children of the people;
and the son of the artisan or peasant rose to the mitre and the triple crown, just as nowadays
the rail-splitter and the tailor become Presidents of the Republic of the West.

The Church was essentially democratic, while at the same time it had the monopoly of learning;
and all the secular power fell to it which learning, combined with sanctity and assisted by
superstition, can bestow.

The privileges of the clergy were extraordinary. They were not amenable to the common laws
of the land. While they governed the laity, the laity had no power over them. From the throne
downwards, every secular office was dependent on the Church. No king was a lawful sovereign
till the Church placed the crown upon his head: and what the Church bestowed, the Church claimed
the right to take away. The disposition of property was in their hands. No will could be proved
except before the bishop or his officer; and no will was held valid if the testator died out
of communion. There were magistrates and courts of law for the offences of the laity. If a
priest committed a crime, he was a sacred person. The civil power could not touch him; he was
reserved for his ordinary. Bishops' commissaries sate in town and city, taking cognizance of
the moral conduct of every man and woman. Offences against life and property were tried here
in England, as now, by the common law; but the Church Courts dealt with sins--sins of word
or act. If a man was a profligate or a drunkard; if he lied or swore; if he did not come to
communion, or held unlawful opinions; if he was idle or unthrifty; if he was unkind to his
wife or his servants; if a child was disobedient to his father, or a father cruel to his child;
if a tradesman sold adulterated wares, or used false measures or dishonest weights,--the eye
of the parish priest was everywhere, and the Church Court stood always open to examine and
to punish.

Imagine what a tremendous power this must have been! Yet it existed generally in Catholic Europe
down to the eve of the Reformation. It could never have established itself at all unless at
one time it had worked beneficially--as the abuse of it was one of the most fatal causes of
the Church's fall.

I know nothing in English history much more striking than the answer given by Archbishop Warham
to the complaints of the English House of Commons after the fall of Cardinal Wolsey. The House
of Commons complained that the clergy made laws in Convocation which the laity were excommunicated
if they disobeyed. Yet the laws made by the clergy, the Commons said, were often at variance
with the laws of the realm.

What did Warham reply? He said he was sorry for the alleged discrepancy; but, inasmuch as the
laws made by the clergy were always in conformity with the will of God, the laws of the realm
had only to be altered and then the difficulty would vanish.

What must have been the position of the clergy in the fulness of their power, when they could
speak thus on the eve of their prostration? You have only to look from a distance at any old-fashioned
cathedral city, and you will see in a moment the mediæval relations between Church and State.
The cathedral is the city. The first object you catch sight of as you approach is the spire
tapering into the sky, or the huge towers holding possession of the centre of the landscape--majestically
beautiful--imposing by mere size amidst the large forms of Nature herself. As you go nearer,
the vastness of the building impresses you more and more. The puny dwelling-place of the citizens
creep at its feet, the pinnacles are glittering in the tints of the sunset, when down below
among the streets and lanes the twilight is darkening. And even now, when the towns are thrice
their ancient size, and the houses have stretched upwards from two stories to five; when the
great chimneys are vomiting their smoke among the clouds, and the temples of modern industry--the
workshops and the factories--spread their long fronts before the eye, the cathedral is still
the governing form in the picture--the one object which possesses the imagination and refuses
to be eclipsed.

As that cathedral was to the old town, so was the Church of the middle ages to the secular
institutions of the world. Its very neighbourhood was sacred; and its shadow, like the shadow
of the Apostles, was a sanctuary. When I look at the new Houses of Parliament in London, I
see in them a type of the change which has passed over us. The House of Commons of the Plantagenets
sate in the Chapter House of Westminster Abbey. The Parliament of the Reform Bill, five-and-thirty
years ago, debated in St. Stephen's Chapel, the Abbey's small dependency. Now, by the side
of the enormous pile which has risen out of that chapel's ashes, the proud Minster itself is
dwarfed into insignificance.

Let us turn to another vast feature of the middle ages--I mean the monasteries.

Some person of especial and exceptional holiness has lived or died at a particular spot. He
has been distinguished by his wisdom, by his piety, by his active benevolence; and in an age
when conjurors and witches were supposed to be helped by the devil to do evil, he, on his part,
has been thought to have possessed in larger measure than common men the favour and the grace
of heaven. Blessed influences hang about the spot which he has hallowed by his presence. His
relics--his household possessions, his books, his clothes, his bones, retain the shadowy sanctity
which they received in having once belonged to him. We all set a value, not wholly unreal,
on anything which has been the property of a remarkable man. At worst, it is but an exaggeration
of natural reverence.

Well, as nowadays we build monuments to great men, so in the middle ages they built shrines
or chapels on the spots which saints had made holy, and communities of pious people gathered
together there--beginning with the personal friends the saint had left behind him--to try to
live as he had lived, to do good as he had done good, and to die as he had died. Thus arose
religious fraternities--companies of men who desired to devote themselves to goodness--to give
up pleasure, and amusement, and self-indulgence, and to spend their lives in prayer and works
of charity.

These houses became centres of pious beneficence. The monks, as the brotherhoods were called,
were organised in different orders, with some variety of rule, but the broad principle was
the same in all. They were to live for others, not for themselves. They took vows of poverty,
that they might not be entangled in the pursuit of money. They took vows of chastity, that
the care of a family might not distract them from the work which they had undertaken. Their
efforts of charity were not limited to this world. Their days were spent in hard bodily labour,
in study, or in visiting the sick. At night they were on the stone-floors of their chapels,
holding up their withered hands to heaven, interceding for the poor souls who were suffering
in purgatory.

The world, as it always will, paid honour to exceptional excellence. The system spread to the
furthest limits of Christendom. The religious houses became places of refuge, where men of
noble birth, kings and queens and emperors, warriors and statesmen, retired to lay down their
splendid cares, and end their days in peace. Those with whom the world had dealt hardly, or
those whom it had surfeited with its unsatisfying pleasures, those who were disappointed with
earth, and those who were filled with passionate aspirations after heaven, alike found a haven
of rest in the quiet cloister. And, gradually, lands came to them, and wealth, and social dignity--all
gratefully extended to men who deserved so well of their fellows; while no landlords were more
popular than they, for the sanctity of the monks sheltered their dependents as well as themselves.

Travel now through Ireland, and you will see in the wildest parts of it innumerable remains
of religious houses, which had grown up among a people who acknowledged no rule among themselves
except the sword, and where every chief made war upon his neighbour as the humour seized him.
The monks among the O's and the Mac's were as defenceless as sheep among the wolves; but the
wolves spared them for their character. In such a country as Ireland then was, the monasteries
could not have survived for a generation but for the enchanted atmosphere which surrounded them.

Of authority, the religious orders were practically independent. They were amenable only to
the Pope and to their own superiors. Here in England, the king could not send a commissioner
to inspect a monastery, nor even send a policeman to arrest a criminal who had taken shelter
within its walls. Archbishops and bishops, powerful as they were, found their authority cease
when they entered the gates of a Benedictine or Dominican abbey.

So utterly have times changed, that with your utmost exertions you will hardly be able to picture
to yourselves the Catholic Church in the days of its greatness. Our school-books tell us how
the Emperor of Germany held the stirrup for Pope Gregory the Seventh to mount his mule; how
our own English Henry Plantagenet walked barefoot through the streets of Canterbury, and knelt
in the Chapter House for the monks to flog him. The first of these incidents, I was brought
up to believe, proved the Pope to be the Man of Sin. Anyhow, they are both facts, and not romances;
and you may form some notion from them how high in the world's eyes the Church must have stood.

And be sure it did not achieve that proud position without deserving it. The Teutonic and Latin
princes were not credulous fools; and when they submitted, it was to something stronger than
themselves--stronger in limb and muscle, or stronger in intellect and character.

So the Church was in its vigour: so the Church was not at the opening of the sixteenth century.
Power--wealth--security--men are more than mortal if they can resist the temptations to which
too much of these expose them. Nor were they the only enemies which undermined the energies
of the Catholic clergy. Churches exist in this world to remind us of the eternal laws which
we are bound to obey. So far as they do this, they fulfil their end, and are honoured in fulfilling
it. It would have been better for all of us--it would be better for us now, could Churches
keep this their peculiar function steadily and singly before them. Unfortunately, they have
preferred in later times the speculative side of things to the practical. They take up into
their teaching opinions and theories which are merely ephemeral; which would naturally die
out with the progress of knowledge; but, having received a spurious sanctity, prolong their
days unseasonably, and become first unmeaning, and then occasions of superstition.

It matters little whether I say a paternoster in English or Latin, so that what is present
to my mind is the thought which the words express, and not the words themselves. In these and
all languages it is the most beautiful of prayers. But you know that people came to look on
a Latin paternoster as the most powerful of spells--potent in heaven, if said straightforward;
if repeated backward, a charm which no spirit in hell could resist.

So it is, in my opinion, with all forms--forms of words, or forms of ceremony and ritualism.
While the meaning is alive in them, they are not only harmless, but pregnant and life-giving.
When we come to think that they possess in themselves material and magical virtues, then the
purpose which they answer is to hide God from us and make us practically into Atheists.

This is what I believe to have gradually fallen upon the Catholic Church in the generations
which preceded Luther. The body remained; the mind was gone away: the original thought which
its symbolism represented was no longer credible to intelligent persons.

The acute were conscious unbelievers. In Italy, when men went to mass they spoke of it as going
to a comedy. You may have heard the story of Luther in his younger days saying mass at an altar
in Rome, and hearing his fellow-priests muttering at the consecration of the Eucharist, 'Bread
thou art, and bread thou wilt remain.'

Part of the clergy were profane scoundrels like these; the rest repeated the words of the service,
conceiving that they were working a charm. Religion was passing through the transformation
which all religions have a tendency to undergo. They cease to be aids and incentives to holy
life; they become contrivances rather to enable men to sin, and escape the penalties of sin.
Obedience to the law is dispensed with if men will diligently profess certain opinions, or
punctually perform certain external duties. However scandalous the moral life, the participation
of a particular rite, or the profession of a particular belief, at the moment of death, is
held to clear the score.

The powers which had been given to the clergy required for their exercise the highest wisdom
and the highest probity. They had fallen at last into the hands of men who possessed considerably
less of these qualities than the laity whom they undertook to govern. They had degraded their
conceptions of God; and, as a necessary consequence, they had degraded their conceptions of
man and man's duty. The aspirations after sanctity had disappeared, and instead of them there
remained the practical reality of the five senses. The high prelates, the cardinals, the great
abbots, were occupied chiefly in maintaining their splendour and luxury. The friars and the
secular clergy, following their superiors with shorter steps, indulged themselves in grosser
pleasures; while their spiritual powers, their supposed authority in this world and the next,
were turned to account to obtain from the laity the means for their self-indulgence.

The Church forbade the eating of meat on fast days, but the Church was ready with dispensations
for those who could afford to pay for them. The Church forbade marriage to the fourth degree
of consanguinity, but loving cousins, if they were rich and open-handed, could obtain the Church's
consent to their union. There were toll-gates for the priests at every halting-place on the
road of life--fees at weddings, fees at funerals, fees whenever an excuse could be found to
fasten them. Even when a man was dead he was not safe from plunder, for a mortuary or death
present was exacted of his family.

And then those Bishop's Courts, of which I spoke just now: they were founded for the discipline
of morality--they were made the instruments of the most detestable extortion. If an impatient
layman spoke a disrespectful word of the clergy, he was cited before the bishop's commissary
and fined. If he refused to pay, he was excommunicated, and excommunication was a poisonous
disease. When a poor wretch was under the ban of the Church no tradesman might sell him clothes
or food--no friend might relieve him--no human voice might address him, under pain of the same
sentence; and if he died unreconciled, he died like a dog, without the sacraments, and was
refused Christian burial.

The records of some of these courts survive: a glance at their pages will show the principles
on which they were worked. When a layman offended, the single object was to make him pay for
it. The magistrates could not protect him. If he resisted, and his friends supported him, so
much the better, for they were now all in the scrape together. The next step would be to indict
them in a body for heresy; and then, of course, there was nothing for it but to give way, and
compound for absolution by money.

It was money--ever money. Even in case of real delinquency, it was still money. Money, not
charity, covered the multitude of sins.

I have told you that the clergy were exempt from secular jurisdiction. They claimed to be amenable
only to spiritual judges, and they extended the broad fringe of their order till the word clerk
was construed to mean any one who could write his name or read a sentence from a book. A robber
or a murderer at the assizes had but to show that he possessed either of these qualifications,
and he was allowed what was called benefit of clergy. His case was transferred to the Bishops'
Court, to an easy judge, who allowed him at once to compound.

Such were the clergy in matters of this world. As religious instructors, they appear in colours
if possible less attractive.

Practical religion throughout Europe at the beginning of the sixteenth century was a very simple
affair. I am not going to speak of the mysterious doctrines of the Catholic Church. The creed
which it professed in its schools and theological treatises was the same which it professes
now, and which it had professed at the time when it was most powerful for good. I do not myself
consider that the formulas in which men express their belief are of much consequence. The question
is rather of the thing expressed; and so long as we find a living consciousness that above
the world and above human life there is a righteous God, who will judge men according to their
works, whether they say their prayers in Latin or English, whether they call themselves Protestants
or call themselves Catholics, appears to me of quite secondary importance. But at the time
I speak of, that consciousness no longer existed. The formulas and ceremonies were all in all;
and of God it is hard to say what conceptions men had formed, when they believed that a dead
man's relations could buy him out of purgatory--buy him out of purgatory,--for this was the
literal truth--by hiring priests to sing masses for his soul.

Religion, in the minds of ordinary people, meant that the keys of the other world were held
by the clergy. If a man confessed regularly to his priest, received the sacrament, and was
absolved, then all was well with him. His duties consisted in going to confession and to mass.
If he committed sins, he was prescribed penances, which could be commuted for money. If he
was sick or ill at ease in his mind, he was recommended a pilgrimage--a pilgrimage to a shrine
or a holy well, or to some wonder-working image--where, for due consideration, his case would
be attended to. It was no use to go to a saint empty-handed. The rule of the Church was, nothing
for nothing. At a chapel in Saxony there was an image of a Virgin and Child. If the worshipper
came to it with a good handsome offering, the child bowed and was gracious: if the present
was unsatisfactory, it turned away its head, and withheld its favours till the purse-strings
were untied again.

There was a great rood or crucifix of the same kind at Boxley, in Kent, where the pilgrims
went in thousands. This figure used to bow, too, when it was pleased; and a good sum of money
was sure to secure its good-will.

When the Reformation came, and the police looked into the matter, the images were found to
be worked with wires and pulleys. The German lady was kept as a curiosity in the cabinet of
the Elector of Saxony. Our Boxley rood was brought up and exhibited in Cheapside, and was afterwards
torn in pieces by the people.

Nor here again was death the limit of extortion: death was rather the gate of the sphere which
the clergy made, peculiarly their own. When a man died, his friends were naturally anxious
for the fate of his soul. If he died in communion, he was not in the worst place of all. He
had not been a saint, and therefore he was not in the best. Therefore he was in purgatory--Purgatory
Pickpurse, as our English Latimer called it--and a priest, if properly paid, could get him out.

To be a mass priest, as it was called, was a regular profession, in which, with little trouble,
a man could earn a comfortable living. He had only to be ordained and to learn by heart a certain
form of words, and that was all the equipment necessary for him. The masses were paid for at
so much a dozen, and for every mass that was said, so many years were struck off from the penal
period. Two priests were sometimes to be seen muttering away at the opposite ends of the same
altar, like a couple of musical boxes playing different parts of the same tune at the same
time. It made no difference. The upper powers had what they wanted. If they got the masses,
and the priests got the money, all parties concerned were satisfied.

I am speaking of the form which these things assumed in an age of degradation and ignorance.
The truest and wisest words ever spoken by man might be abused in the same way.

The Sermon on the Mount or the Apostles' Creed, if recited mechanically, and relied on to work
a mechanical effort, would be no less perniciously idolatrous.

You can see something of the same kind in a milder form in Spain at the present day. The Spaniards,
all of them, high and low, are expected to buy annually a Pope's Bula or Bull--a small pardon,
or indulgence, or plenary remission of sins. The exact meaning of these things is a little
obscure; the high authorities themselves do not universally agree about them, except so far
as to say that they are of prodigious value of some sort. The orthodox explanation, I believe,
is something of this kind. With every sin there is the moral guilt and the temporal penalty.
The pardon cannot touch the guilt; but when the guilt is remitted, there is still the penalty.
I may ruin my health by a dissolute life; I may repent of my dissoluteness and be forgiven;
but the bad health will remain. For bad health, substitute penance in this world and purgatory
in the next; and in this sphere the indulgence takes effect.

Such as they are, at any rate, everybody in Spain has these bulls; you buy them in the shops
for a shilling apiece.

This is one form of the thing. Again, at the door of a Spanish church you will see hanging
on the wall an intimation that whoever will pray so many hours before a particular image shall
receive full forgiveness of his sins. Having got that, one might suppose he would be satisfied;
but no--if he prays so many more hours, he can get off a hundred years of purgatory, or a thousand,
or ten thousand. In one place I remember observing that for a very little trouble a man could
escape a hundred and fifty thousand years of purgatory.

What a prospect for the ill-starred Protestant, who will be lucky if he is admitted into purgatory
at all!

Again, if you enter a sacristy, you will see a small board like the notices addressed to parishioners
in our vestries. On particular days it is taken out and hung up in the church, and little would
a stranger, ignorant of the language, guess the tremendous meaning of that commonplace appearance.
On these boards is written 'Hoy se sacan animas,'--'This day, souls are taken out of purgatory.'
It is an intimation to every one with a friend in distress that now is his time. You put a
shilling in a plate, you give your friend's name, and the thing is done. One wonders why, if
purgatory can be sacked so easily, any poor wretch is left to suffer there.

Such practices nowadays are comparatively innocent, the money asked and given is trifling,
and probably no one concerned in the business believes much about it. They serve to show, however,
on a small scale, what once went on on an immense scale; and even such as they are, pious Catholics
do not much approve of them. They do not venture to say much on the subject directly, but they
allow themselves a certain good-humoured ridicule. A Spanish novelist of some reputation tells
a story of a man coming to a priest on one of these occasions, putting a shilling in the plate,
and giving in the name of his friend.

'Is my friend's soul out?' he asked. The priest said it was. 'Quite sure?' the man asked. 'Quite
sure,' the priest answered. 'Very well,' said the man, 'if he is out of purgatory they will
not put him in again: it is a bad shilling.'

Sadder than all else, even as the most beautiful things are worst in their degradation, was
the condition of the monasteries. I am here on delicate ground. The accounts of those institutions,
as they existed in England and Germany at the time of their suppression, is so shocking that
even impartial writers have hesitated to believe the reports which have come down to us. The
laity, we are told, determined to appropriate the abbey lands, and maligned the monks to justify
the spoliation. Were the charge true, the religious orders would still be without excuse, for
the whole education of the country was in the hands of the clergy; and they had allowed a whole
generation to grow up, which, on this hypothesis, was utterly depraved.

But no such theory can explain away the accumulated testimony which comes to us--exactly alike--from
so many sides and witnesses. We are not dependent upon evidence which Catholics can decline
to receive. In the reign of our Henry the Seventh the notorious corruption of some of the great
abbeys in England brought them under the notice of the Catholic Archbishop of Canterbury, Cardinal
Morton. The archbishop, unable to meddle with them by his own authority, obtained the necessary
powers from the Pope. He instituted a partial visitation in the neighbourhood of London; and
the most malignant Protestant never drew such a picture of profligate brutality as Cardinal
Morton left behind him in his Register, in a description of the great Abbey of St. Albans.
I cannot, in a public lecture, give you the faintest idea of what it contains. The monks were
bound to celibacy--that is to say, they were not allowed to marry. They were full-fed, idle,
and sensual; of sin they thought only as something extremely pleasant, of which they could
cleanse one another with a few mumbled words as easily as they could wash their faces in a
basin. And there I must leave the matter. Anybody who is curious for particulars may see the
original account in Morton's Register, in the Archbishop's library at Lambeth.

A quarter of a century after this there appeared in Germany a book, now called by Catholics
an infamous libel, the 'Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum.' 'The obscure men,' supposed to be the
writers of these epistles, are monks or students of theology. The letters themselves are written
in dog-Latin--a burlesque of the language in which ecclesiastical people then addressed each
other. They are sketches, satirical, but not malignant, of the moral and intellectual character
of these reverend personages.

On the moral, and by far the most important, side of the matter I am still obliged to be silent;
but I can give you a few specimens of the furniture of the theological minds, and of the subjects
with which they were occupied.

A student writes to his ghostly father in an agony of distress because he has touched his hat
to a Jew. He mistook him for a doctor of divinity; and on the whole, he fears he has committed
mortal sin. Can the father absolve him? Can the bishop absolve him? Can the Pope absolve him?
His case seems utterly desperate.

Another letter describes a great intellectual riddle, which was argued for four days at the
School of Logic at Louvaine. A certain Master of Arts had taken out his degree at Louvaine,
Leyden, Paris, Oxford, Cambridge, Padua, and four other universities. He was thus a member
of ten universities. But how could a man be a member of ten universities? A university was
a body, and one body might have many members; but how one member could have many bodies, passed
comprehension. In such a monstrous anomaly, the member would be the body, and the universities
the member, and this would be a scandal to such grave and learned corporations. The holy doctor
St. Thomas himself could not make himself into the body of ten universities.

The more the learned men argued, the deeper they floundered, and at length gave up the problem
in despair.

Again: a certain professor argues that Julius Cæsar could not have written the book which passes
under the name of 'Cæsar's Commentaries,' because that book is written in Latin, and Latin
is a difficult language; and a man whose life is spent in marching and fighting has notoriously
no time to learn Latin.

Here is another fellow--a monk this one--describing to a friend the wonderful things which
he has seen in Rome.

'You may have heard,' he says, 'how the Pope did possess a monstrous beast called an Elephant.
The Pope did entertain for this beast a very great affection, and now behold it is dead. When
it fell sick, the Pope called his doctors about him in great sorrow, and said to them, "If
it be possible, heal my elephant." Then they gave the elephant a purge, which cost five hundred
crowns, but it did not avail, and so the beast departed; and the Pope grieves much for his
elephant, for it was indeed a miraculous beast, with a long, long, prodigious long nose; and
when it saw the Pope it kneeled down before him and said, with a terrible voice, "Bar, bar, bar!"'

I will not tire you with any more of this nonsense, especially as I cannot give you the really
characteristic parts of the book.

I want you to observe, however, what Sir Thomas More says of it, and nobody will question that
Sir Thomas More was a good Catholic and a competent witness. 'These epistles,' he says, 'are
the delight of everyone. The wise enjoy the wit; the blockheads of monks take them seriously,
and believe that they have been written to do them honour. When we laugh, they think we are
laughing at the style, which they admit to be comical. But they think the style is made up
for by the beauty of the sentiment. The scabbard, they say, is rough, but the blade within
it is divine. The deliberate idiots would not have found out the jest for themselves in a hundred
years.'

Well might Erasmus exclaim, 'What fungus could be more stupid? yet these are the Atlases who
are to uphold the tottering Church!'

'The monks had a pleasant time of it,' says Luther. 'Every brother had two cans of beer and
a quart of wine for his supper, with gingerbread, to make him take to his liquor kindly. Thus
the poor things came to look like fiery angels.'

And more gravely, 'In the cloister rule the seven deadly sins--covetousness, lasciviousness,
uncleanness, hate, envy, idleness, and the loathing of the service of God.'

Consider such men as these owning a third, a half, sometimes two-thirds of the land in every
country in Europe, and, in addition to their other sins, neglecting all the duties attaching
to this property--the woods cut down and sold, the houses falling to ruin--unthrift, neglect,
waste everywhere and in everything--the shrewd making the most of their time, which they had
sense to see might be a short one--the rest dreaming on in sleepy sensuality, dividing their
hours between the chapel, the pothouse, and the brothel.

I do not think that, in its main features, the truth of this sketch can be impugned; and if
it be just even in outline, then a reformation of some kind or other was overwhelmingly necessary.
Corruption beyond a certain point becomes unendurable to the coarsest nostril. The constitution
of human things cannot away with it.

Something was to be done; but what, or how? There were three possible courses.

Either the ancient discipline of the Church might be restored by the heads of the Church themselves.

Or, secondly, a higher tone of feeling might gradually be introduced among clergy and laity
alike, by education and literary culture. The discovery of the printing press had made possible
a diffusion of knowledge which had been unattainable in earlier ages. The ecclesiastical constitution,
like a sick human body, might recover its tone if a better diet were prepared for it.

Or, lastly, the common sense of the laity might take the matter at once into their own hands,
and make free use of the pruning knife and the sweeping brush. There might be much partial
injustice, much violence, much wrongheadedness; but the people would, at any rate, go direct
to the point, and the question was whether any other remedy would serve.

The first of these alternatives may at once be dismissed. The heads of the Church were the
last persons in the world to discover that anything was wrong. People of that sort always are.
For them the thing as it existed answered excellently well. They had boundless wealth, and
all but boundless power. What could they ask for more? No monk drowsing over his wine-pot was
less disturbed by anxiety than nine out of ten of the high dignitaries who were living on the
eve of the Judgment Day, and believed that their seat was established for them for ever.

The character of the great ecclesiastics of that day you may infer from a single example. The
Archbishop of Mayence was one of the most enlightened Churchmen in Germany. He was a patron
of the Renaissance, a friend of Erasmus, a liberal, an intelligent, and, as times went, and
considering his trade, an honourable, high-minded man.

When the Emperor Maximilian died, and the imperial throne was vacant, the Archbishop of Mayence
was one of seven electors who had to choose a new emperor.

There were two competitors--Francis the First and Maximilian's grandson, afterwards the well-known
Charles the Fifth.

Well, of the seven electors six were bribed. John Frederick of Saxony, Luther's friend and
protector, was the only one of the party who came out of the business with clean hands.

But the Archbishop of Mayence took bribes six times alternately from both the candidates. He
took money as coolly as the most rascally ten-pound householder in Yarmouth or Totnes, and
finally drove a hard bargain for his actual vote.

The grape does not grow upon the blackthorn; nor does healthy reform come from high dignitaries
like the Archbishop of Mayence.

The other aspect of the problem I shall consider in the following Lectures.

LECTURE II.

In the year 1467--the year in which Charles the Bold became Duke of Burgundy--four years before
the great battle of Barnet, which established our own fourth Edward on the English throne--about
the time when William Caxton was setting up his printing press at Westminster--there was born
at Rotterdam, on the 28th of October, Desiderius Erasmus. His parents, who were middle-class
people, were well-to-do in the world. For some reason or other they were prevented from marrying
by the interference of relations. The father died soon after in a cloister; the mother was
left with her illegitimate infant, whom she called first, after his father, Gerard; but afterwards,
from his beauty and grace, she changed his name--the words Desiderius Erasmus, one with a Latin,
the other with a Greek, derivation, meaning the lovely or delightful one.

Not long after, the mother herself died also. The little Erasmus was the heir of a moderate
fortune; and his guardians, desiring to appropriate it to themselves, endeavoured to force
him into a convent at Brabant.

The thought of living and dying in a house of religion was dreadfully unattractive; but an
orphan boy's resistance was easily overcome. He was bullied into yielding, and, when about
twenty, took the vows.

The life of a monk, which was uninviting on the surface, was not more lovely when seen from within.

'A monk's holy obedience,' Erasmus wrote afterwards, 'consists in--what? In leading an honest,
chaste, and sober life? Not the least. In acquiring learning, in study, and industry? Still
less. A monk may be a glutton, a drunkard, a whoremonger, an ignorant, stupid, malignant, envious
brute, but he has broken no vow, he is within his holy obedience. He has only to be the slave
of a superior as good for nothing as himself, and he is an excellent brother.'

The misfortune of his position did not check Erasmus's intellectual growth. He was a brilliant,
witty, sarcastic, mischievous youth. He did not trouble himself to pine and mope; but, like
a young thorough-bred in a drove of asses, he used his heels pretty freely.

While he played practical jokes upon the unreverend fathers, he distinguished himself equally
by his appetite for knowledge. It was the dawn of the Renaissance--the revival of learning.
The discovery of printing was reopening to modern Europe the great literature of Greece and
Rome, and the writings of the Christian fathers. For studies of this kind, Erasmus, notwithstanding
the disadvantages of cowl and frock, displayed extraordinary aptitude. He taught himself Greek
when Greek was the language which, in the opinion of the monks, only the devils spoke in the
wrong place. His Latin was as polished as Cicero's; and at length the Archbishop of Cambray
heard of him, and sent him to the University of Paris.

At Paris he found a world where life could be sufficiently pleasant, but where his religious
habit was every moment in his way. He was a priest, and so far could not help himself. That
ink-spot not all the waters of the German Ocean could wash away. But he did not care for the
low debaucheries, where the frock and cowl were at home. His place was in the society of cultivated
men, who were glad to know him and to patronise him; so he shook off his order, let his hair
grow, and flung away his livery.

The Archbishop's patronage was probably now withdrawn. Life in Paris was expensive, and Erasmus
had for several years to struggle with poverty. We see him, however, for the most part--in
his early letters--carrying a bold front to fortune; desponding one moment, and larking the
next with a Paris grisette; making friends, enjoying good company, enjoying especially good
wine when he could get it; and, above all, satiating his literary hunger at the library of
the University.

In this condition, when about eight-and-twenty, he made acquaintance with two young English
noblemen who were travelling on the Continent, Lord Mountjoy and one of the Greys.

Mountjoy, intensely attracted by his brilliance, took him for his tutor, carried him over to
England, and introduced him at the court of Henry the Seventh. At once his fortune was made.
He charmed every one, and in turn he was himself delighted with the country and the people.
English character, English hospitality, English manners--everything English except the beer--equally
pleased him. In the young London men--the lawyers, the noblemen, even in some of the clergy--he
found his own passion for learning. Sir Thomas More, who was a few years younger than himself,
became his dearest friend; and Warham, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury--Fisher, afterwards
Bishop of Rochester--Colet, the famous Dean of St. Paul's--the great Wolsey himself--recognised
and welcomed the rising star of European literature.

Money flowed in upon him. Warham gave him a benefice in Kent, which was afterwards changed
to a pension. Prince Henry, when he became King, offered him--kings in those days were not
bad friends to literature--Henry offered him, if he would remain in England, a house large
enough to be called a palace, and a pension which, converted into our money, would be a thousand
pounds a year.

Erasmus, however, was a restless creature, and did not like to be caged or tethered. He declined
the King's terms, but Mountjoy settled a pension on him instead. He had now a handsome income,
and he understood the art of enjoying it. He moved about as he pleased--now to Cambridge, now
to Oxford, and, as the humour took him, back again to Paris; now staying with Sir Thomas More
at Chelsea, now going a pilgrimage with Dean Colet to Becket's tomb at Canterbury--but always
studying, always gathering knowledge, and throwing it out again, steeped in his own mother
wit, in shining Essays or Dialogues, which were the delight and the despair of his contemporaries.

Everywhere, in his love of pleasure, in his habits of thought, in his sarcastic scepticism,
you see the healthy, clever, well-disposed, tolerant, epicurean, intellectual man of the world.

He went, as I said, with Dean Colet to Becket's tomb. At a shrine about Canterbury he was shown
an old shoe which tradition called the Saint's. At the tomb itself, the great sight was a handkerchief
which a monk took from among the relics, and offered it to the crowd to kiss. The worshippers
touched it in pious adoration, with clasped hands and upturned eyes. If the thing was genuine,
as Erasmus observed, it had but served for the archbishop to wipe his nose with--and Dean Colet,
a puritan before his time, looked on with eyes flashing scorn, and scarcely able to keep his
hands off the exhibitors. But Erasmus smiled kindly, reflecting that mankind were fools, and
in some form or other would remain fools. He took notice only of the pile of gold and jewels,
and concluded that so much wealth might prove dangerous to its possessors.

The peculiarities of the English people interested and amused him. 'You are going to England,'
he wrote afterwards to a friend; 'you will not fail to be pleased. You will find the great
people there most agreeable and gracious; only be careful not to presume upon their intimacy.
They will condescend to your level, but do not you therefore suppose that you stand upon theirs.
The noble lords are gods in their own eyes.'

'For the other classes, be courteous, give your right hand, do not take the wall, do not push
yourself. Smile on whom you please, but trust no one that you do not know; above all, speak
no evil of England to them. They are proud of their country above all nations in the world,
as they have good reason to be.'

These directions might have been written yesterday. The manners of the ladies have somewhat
changed. 'English ladies,' says Erasmus, 'are divinely pretty, and too good-natured. They have
an excellent custom among them, that wherever you go the girls kiss you. They kiss you when
you come, they kiss you when you go, they kiss you at intervening opportunities, and their
lips are soft, warm, and delicious.' Pretty well that, for a priest!

The custom, perhaps, was not quite so universal as Erasmus would have us believe. His own coaxing
ways may have had something to do with it. At any rate, he found England a highly agreeable
place of residence.

Meanwhile, his reputation as a writer spread over the world. Latin--the language in which he
wrote--was in universal use. It was the vernacular of the best society in Europe, and no living
man was so perfect a master of it. His satire flashed about among all existing institutions,
scathing especially his old enemies the monks; while the great secular clergy, who hated the
religious orders, were delighted to see them scourged, and themselves to have the reputation
of being patrons of toleration and reform.

Erasmus, as he felt his ground more sure under him, obtained from Julius the Second a distinct
release from his monastic vows; and, shortly after, when the brilliant Leo succeeded to the
tiara, and gathered about him the magnificent cluster of artists who have made his era so illustrious,
the new Pope invited Erasmus to visit him at Rome, and become another star in the constellation
which surrounded the Papal throne.

Erasmus was at this time forty years old--the age when ambition becomes powerful in men, and
takes the place of love of pleasure. He was received at Rome with princely distinction, and
he could have asked for nothing--bishoprics, red hats, or red stockings--which would not have
been freely given to him if he would have consented to remain.

But he was too considerable a man to be tempted by finery; and the Pope's livery, gorgeous
though it might be, was but a livery after all. Nothing which Leo the Tenth could do for Erasmus
could add lustre to his coronet. More money he might have had, but of money he had already
abundance, and outward dignity would have been dearly bought by gilded chains. He resisted
temptation; he preferred the northern air, where he could breathe at liberty, and he returned
to England, half inclined to make his home there.

But his own sovereign laid claim to his services; the future emperor recalled him to the Low
Countries, settled a handsome salary upon him, and established him at the University of Louvaine.

He was now in the zenith of his greatness. He had an income as large as many an English nobleman.
We find him corresponding with popes, cardinals, kings, and statesmen; and as he grew older,
his mind became more fixed upon serious subjects. The ignorance and brutality of the monks,
the corruption of the spiritual courts, the absolute irreligion in which the Church was steeped,
gave him serious alarm. He had no enthusiasms, no doctrinal fanaticisms, no sectarian beliefs
or superstitions. The breadth of his culture, his clear understanding, and the worldly moderation
of his temper, seemed to qualify him above living men to conduct a temperate reform. He saw
that the system around him was pregnant with danger, and he resolved to devote what remained
to him of life to the introduction of a higher tone in the minds of the clergy.

The revival of learning had by this time alarmed the religious orders. Literature and education,
beyond the code of the theological text-books, appeared simply devilish to them. When Erasmus
returned to Louvaine, the battle was raging over the north of Europe.

The Dominicans at once recognised in Erasmus their most dangerous enemy. At first they tried
to compel him to re-enter the order, but, strong in the Pope's dispensation, he was so far
able to defy them. They could bark at his heels, but dared not come to closer quarters: and
with his temper slightly ruffled, but otherwise contented to despise them, he took up boldly
the task which he had set himself.

'We kiss the old shoes of the saints,' he said, 'but we never read their works.' He undertook
the enormous labour of editing and translating selections from the writings of the Fathers.
The New Testament was as little known as the lost books of Tacitus--all that the people knew
of the Gospels and the Epistles were the passages on which theologians had built up the Catholic
formulas. Erasmus published the text, and with it, and to make it intelligible, a series of
paraphrases, which rent away the veil of traditional and dogmatic interpretation, and brought
the teaching of Christ and the Apostles into their natural relation with reason and conscience.

In all this, although the monks might curse, he had countenance and encouragement from the
great ecclesiastics in all parts of Europe--and it is highly curious to see the extreme freedom
with which they allowed him to propose to them his plans for a Reformation--we seem to be listening
to the wisest of modern broad Churchmen.

To one of his correspondents, an archbishop, he writes:--

'Let us have done with theological refinements. There is an excuse for the Fathers, because
the heretics forced them to define particular points; but every definition is a misfortune,
and for us to persevere in the same way is sheer folly. Is no man to be admitted to grace who
does not know how the Father differs from the Son, and both from the Spirit? or how the nativity
of the Son differs from the procession of the Spirit? Unless I forgive my brother his sins
against me, God will not forgive me my sins. Unless I have a pure heart--unless I put away
envy, hate, pride, avarice, lust, I shall not see God. But a man is not damned because he cannot
tell whether the Spirit has one principle or two. Has he the fruits of the Spirit? That is
the question. Is he patient, kind, good, gentle, modest, temperate, chaste? Enquire if you
will, but do not define. True religion is peace, and we cannot have peace unless we leave the
conscience unshackled on obscure points on which certainty is impossible. We hear now of questions
being referred to the next OEcumenical Council--better a great deal refer them to doomsday.
Time was, when a man's faith was looked for in his life, not in the Articles which he professed.
Necessity first brought Articles upon us, and ever since, we have refined and refined till
Christianity has become a thing of words and creeds. Articles increase--sincerity vanishes
away--contention grows hot, and charity grows cold. Then comes in the civil power, with stake
and gallows, and men are forced to profess what they do not believe, to pretend to love what
in fact they hate, and to say that they understand what in fact has no meaning for them.'

Again, to the Archbishop of Mayence:--

'Reduce the dogmas necessary to be believed, to the smallest possible number; you can do it
without danger to the realities of Christianity. On other points, either discourage enquiry,
or leave everyone free to believe what he pleases--then we shall have no more quarrels, and
religion will again take hold of life. When you have done this, you can correct the abuses
of which the world with good reason complains. The unjust judge heard the widow's prayer. You
should not shut your ears to the cries of those for whom Christ died. He did not die for the
great only, but for the poor and for the lowly. There need be no tumult. Do you only set human
affections aside, and let kings and princes lend themselves heartily to the public good. But
observe that the monks and friars be allowed no voice; with these gentlemen the world has borne
too long. They care only for their own vanity, their own stomachs, their own power; and they
believe that if the people are enlightened, their kingdom cannot stand.'

Once more to the Pope himself:--

'Let each man amend first his own wicked life. When he has done that, and will amend his neighbour,
let him put on Christian charity, which is severe enough when severity is needed. If your holiness
give power to men who neither believe in Christ nor care for you, but think only of their own
appetites, I fear there will be danger. We can trust your holiness, but there are bad men who
will use your virtues as a cloke for their own malice.'

That the spiritual rulers of Europe should have allowed a man like Erasmus to use language
such as this to them is a fact of supreme importance. It explains the feeling of Goethe, that
the world would have gone on better had there been no Luther, and that the revival of theological
fanaticism did more harm than good.

But the question of questions is, what all this latitudinarian philosophising, this cultivated
epicurean gracefulness would have come to if left to itself; or rather, what was the effect
which it was inevitably producing? If you wish to remove an old building without bringing it
in ruins about your ears, you must begin at the top, remove the stones gradually downwards,
and touch the foundation last. But latitudinarianism loosens the elementary principles of theology.
It destroys the premises on which the dogmatic system rests. It would beg the question to say
that this would in itself have been undesirable; but the practical effect of it, as the world
then stood, would have only been to make the educated into infidels, and to leave the multitude
to a convenient but debasing superstition.

The monks said that Erasmus laid the egg, and Luther hatched a cockatrice. Erasmus resented
deeply such an account of his work; but it was true after all. The sceptical philosophy is
the most powerful of solvents, but it has no principle of organic life in it; and what of truth
there was in Erasmus's teaching had to assume a far other form before it was available for
the reinvigoration of religion. He himself, in his clearer moments, felt his own incapacity,
and despaired of making an impression on the mass of ignorance with which he saw himself surrounded.

'The stupid monks,' he writes, 'say mass as a cobbler makes a shoe; they come to the altar
reeking from their filthy pleasures. Confession with the monks is a cloke to steal the people's
money, to rob girls of their virtue, and commit other crimes too horrible to name! Yet these
people are the tyrants of Europe. The Pope himself is afraid of them.'

'Beware!' he says to an impetuous friend, 'beware how you offend the monks. You have to do
with an enemy that cannot be slain; an order never dies, and they will not rest till they have
destroyed you.'

The heads of the Church might listen politely, but Erasmus had no confidence in them. 'Never,'
he says, 'was there a time when divines were greater fools, or popes and prelates more worldly.'
Germany was about to receive a signal illustration of the improvement which it was to look
for from liberalism and intellectual culture.

We are now on the edge of the great conflagration. Here we must leave Erasmus for the present.
I must carry you briefly over the history of the other great person who was preparing to play
his part on the stage. You have seen something of what Erasmus was; you must turn next to the
companion picture of Martin Luther. You will observe in how many points their early experiences
touch, as if to show more vividly the contrast between the two men.

Sixteen years after the birth of Erasmus, therefore in the year 1483, Martin Luther came into
the world in a peasant's cottage, at Eisleben, in Saxony. By peasant, you need not understand
a common boor. Hans Luther, the father, was a thrifty, well-to-do man for his station in life--adroit
with his hands, and able to do many useful things, from farm work to digging in the mines.
The family life was strict and stern--rather too stern, as Martin thought in later life.

'Be temperate with your children,' he said, long after, to a friend; 'punish them if they lie
or steal, but be just in what you do. It is a lighter sin to take pears and apples than to
take money. I shudder when I think of what I went through myself. My mother beat me about some
nuts once till the blood came. I had a terrible time of it, but she meant well.'

At school, too, he fell into rough hands, and the recollection of his sufferings made him tender
ever after with young boys and girls.

'Never be hard with children,' he used to say. 'Many a fine character has been ruined by the
stupid brutality of pedagogues. The parts of speech are a boy's pillory. I was myself flogged
fifteen times in one forenoon over the conjugation of a verb. Punish if you will, but be kind
too, and let the sugar-plum go with the rod.' This is not the language of a demagogue or a
fanatic; it is the wise thought of a tender, human-hearted man.

At seventeen, he left school for the University at Erfurt. It was then no shame for a poor
scholar to maintain himself by alms. Young Martin had a rich noble voice and a fine ear, and
by singing ballads in the streets he found ready friends and help. He was still uncertain with
what calling he should take up, when it happened that a young friend was killed at his side
by lightning.

Erasmus was a philosopher. A powder magazine was once blown up by lightning in a town where
Erasmus was staying, and a house of infamous character was destroyed. The inhabitants saw in
what had happened the Divine anger against sin. Erasmus told them that if there was any anger
in the matter, it was anger merely with the folly which had stored powder in an exposed situation.

Luther possessed no such premature intelligence. He was distinguished from other boys only
by the greater power of his feelings and the vividness of his imagination. He saw in his friend's
death the immediate hand of the great Lord of the universe. His conscience was terrified. A
life-long penitence seemed necessary to atone for the faults of his boyhood. He too, like Erasmus,
became a monk, not forced into it--for his father knew better what the holy men were like,
and had no wish to have son of his among them--but because the monk of Martin's imagination
spent his nights and days upon the stones in prayer; and Martin, in the heat of his repentance,
longed to be kneeling at his side.

In this mood he entered the Augustine monastery at Erfurt. He was full of an overwhelming sense
of his own wretchedness and sinfulness. Like St. Paul, he was crying to be delivered from the
body of death which he carried about him. He practised all possible austerities. He, if no
one else, mortified his flesh with fasting. He passed nights in the chancel before the altar,
or on his knees on the floor of his cell. He weakened his body till his mind wandered, and
he saw ghosts and devils. Above all, he saw the flaming image of his own supposed guilt. God
required that he should keep the law in all points. He had not so kept the law--could not so
keep the law--and therefore he believed that he was damned. One morning, he was found senseless
and seemingly dead; a brother played to him on a flute, and soothed his senses back to consciousness.

It was long since any such phenomenon had appeared among the rosy friars of Erfurt. They could
not tell what to make of him. Staupitz, the prior, listened to his accusations of himself in
confession. 'My good fellow,' he said, 'don't be so uneasy; you have committed no sins of the
least consequence; you have not killed anybody, or committed adultery, or things of that sort.
If you sin to some purpose, it is right that you should think about it, but don't make mountains
out of trifles.'

Very curious: to the commonplace man the uncommonplace is for ever unintelligible. What was
the good of all that excitement--that agony of self-reproach for little things? None at all,
if the object is only to be an ordinary good sort of man--if a decent fulfilment of the round
of common duties is the be-all and the end-all of human life on earth.

The plague came by-and-by into the town. The commonplace clergy ran away--went to their country-houses,
went to the hills, went anywhere--and they wondered in the same way why Luther would not go
with them. They admired him and liked him. They told him his life was too precious to be thrown
away. He answered, quite simply, that his place was with the sick and dying; a monk's life
was no great matter. The sun he did not doubt would continue to shine, whatever became of him.
'I am no St. Paul,' he said; 'I am afraid of death; but there are things worse than death,
and if I die, I die.'

Even a Staupitz could not but feel that he had an extraordinary youth in his charge. To divert
his mind from feeding upon itself, he devised a mission for him abroad, and brother Martin
was despatched on business of the convent to Rome.

Luther too, like Erasmus, was to see Rome; but how different the figures of the two men there!
Erasmus goes with servants and horses, the polished, successful man of the world. Martin Luther
trudges penniless and barefoot across the Alps, helped to a meal and a night's rest at the
monasteries along the road, or begging, if the convents fail him, at the farm-houses.

He was still young, and too much occupied with his own sins to know much of the world outside
him. Erasmus had no dreams. He knew the hard truth on most things. But Rome, to Luther's eager
hopes, was the city of the saints, and the court and palace of the Pope fragrant with the odours
of Paradise. 'Blessed Rome,' he cried, as he entered the gate--'Blessed Rome, sanctified with
the blood of martyrs!'

Alas! the Rome of reality was very far from blessed. He remained long enough to complete his
disenchantment. The cardinals, with their gilded chariots and their parasols of peacocks' plumes,
were poor representatives of the apostles. The gorgeous churches and more gorgeous rituals,
the pagan splendour of the paintings, the heathen gods still almost worshipped in the adoration
of the art which had formed them, to Luther, whose heart was heavy with thoughts of man's depravity,
were utterly horrible. The name of religion was there: the thinnest veil was scarcely spread
over the utter disbelief with which God and Christ were at heart regarded. Culture enough there
was. It was the Rome of Raphael and Michael Angelo, of Perugino, and Benvenuto; but to the
poor German monk, who had come there to find help for his suffering soul, what was culture?

He fled at the first moment that he could. 'Adieu! Rome,' he said; 'let all who would lead
a holy life depart from Rome. Everything is permitted in Rome except to be an honest man.'
He had no thought of leaving the Roman Church. To a poor monk like him, to talk of leaving
the Church was like talking of leaping off the planet. But perplexed and troubled he returned
to Saxony; and his friend Staupitz, seeing clearly that a monastery was no place for him, recommended
him to the Elector as Professor of Philosophy at Wittenberg.

The senate of Wittenberg gave him the pulpit of the town church, and there at once he had room
to show what was in him. 'This monk,' said some one who heard him, 'is a marvellous fellow.
He has strange eyes, and will give the doctors trouble by-and-by.'

He had read deeply, especially he had read that rare and almost unknown book, the 'New Testament.'
He was not cultivated like Erasmus. Erasmus spoke the most polished Latin. Luther spoke and
wrote his own vernacular German. The latitudinarian philosophy, the analytical acuteness, the
sceptical toleration of Erasmus were alike strange and distasteful to him. In all things he
longed only to know the truth--to shake off and hurl from him lies and humbug.

Superstitious he was. He believed in witches and devils and fairies--a thousand things without
basis in fact, which Erasmus passed by in contemptuous indifference. But for things which were
really true--true as nothing else in this world, or any world, is true--the justice of God,
the infinite excellence of good, the infinite hatefulness of evil--these things he believed
and felt with a power of passionate conviction to which the broader, feebler mind of the other
was for ever a stranger.

We come now to the memorable year 1517, when Luther was thirty-five years old. A new cathedral
was in progress at Rome. Michael Angelo had furnished Leo the Tenth with the design of St.
Peter's; and the question of questions was to find money to complete the grandest structure
which had ever been erected by man.

Pope Leo was the most polished and cultivated of mankind. The work to be done was to be the
most splendid which art could produce. The means to which the Pope had recourse will serve
to show us how much all that would have done for us.

You remember what I told you about indulgences. The notable device of his Holiness was to send
distinguished persons about Europe with sacks of indulgences. Indulgences and dispensations!
Dispensations to eat meat on fast-days--dispensations to marry one's near relation--dispensations
for anything and everything which the faithful might wish to purchase who desired forbidden
pleasures. The dispensations were simply scandalous. The indulgences--well, if a pious Catholic
is asked nowadays what they were, he will say that they were the remission of the penances
which the Church inflicts upon earth; but it is also certain that they would have sold cheap
if the people had thought that this was all that they were to get by them. As the thing was
represented by the spiritual hawkers who disposed of these wares, they were letters of credit
on heaven. When the great book was opened, the people believed that these papers would be found
entire on the right side of the account. Debtor--so many murders, so many robberies, lies,
slanders, or debaucheries. Creditor--the merits of the saints placed to the account of the
delinquent by the Pope's letters, in consideration of value received.

This is the way in which the pardon system was practically worked. This is the way in which
it is worked still, where the same superstitions remain.

If one had asked Pope Leo whether he really believed in these pardons of his, he would have
said officially that the Church had always held that the Pope had power to grant them.

Had he told the truth, he would have added privately that if the people chose to be fools,
it was not for him to disappoint them.

The collection went on. The money of the faithful came in plentifully; and the pedlars going
their rounds appeared at last in Saxony.

The Pope had bought the support of the Archbishop of Mayence, Erasmus's friend, by promising
him half the spoil which was gathered in his province. The agent was the Dominican monk Tetzel,
whose name has acquired a forlorn notoriety in European history.

His stores were opened in town after town. He entered in state. The streets everywhere were
hung with flags. Bells were pealed; nuns and monks walked in procession before and after him,
while he himself sate in a chariot, with the Papal Bull on a velvet cushion in front of him.
The sale-rooms were the churches. The altars were decorated, the candles lighted, the arms
of St. Peter blazoned conspicuously on the roof. Tetzel from the pulpit explained the efficacy
of his medicines; and if any profane person doubted their power, he was threatened with excommunication.

Acolytes walked through the crowds, clinking their plates and crying, 'Buy! buy!' The business
went as merry as a marriage bell till the Dominican came near to Wittenberg.

Half a century before, such a spectacle would have excited no particular attention. The few
who saw through the imposition would have kept their thoughts to themselves; the many would
have paid their money, and in a month all would have been forgotten.

But the fight between the men of letters and the monks, the writings of Erasmus and Reuchlin,
the satires of Ulric von Hutten, had created a silent revolution in the minds of the younger laity.

A generation had grown to manhood of whom the Church authorities knew nothing; and the whole
air of Germany, unsuspected by pope or prelate, was charged with electricity.

Had Luther stood alone, he, too, would probably have remained silent. What was he, a poor,
friendless, solitary monk, that he should set himself against the majesty of the triple crown?

However hateful the walls of a dungeon, a man of sense confined alone there does not dash his
hands against the stones.

But Luther knew that his thoughts were the thoughts of thousands. Many wrong things, as we
all know, have to be endured in this world. Authority is never very angelic; and moderate injustice,
a moderate quantity of lies, is more tolerable than anarchy.

But it is with human things as it is with the great icebergs which drift southward out of the
frozen seas. They swim two-thirds under water, and one-third above; and so long as the equilibrium
is sustained, you would think that they were as stable as the rocks. But the sea-water is warmer
than the air. Hundreds of fathoms down, the tepid current washes the base of the berg. Silently
in those far deeps the centre of gravity is changed; and then, in a moment, with one vast roll,
the enormous mass heaves over, and the crystal peaks which had been glancing so proudly in
the sunlight, are buried in the ocean for ever.

Such a process as this had been going on in Germany, and Luther knew it, and knew that the
time was come for him to speak. Fear had not kept him back. The danger to himself would be
none the less because he would have the people at his side. The fiercer the thunderstorm, the
greater peril to the central figure who stands out above the rest exposed to it. But he saw
that there was hope at last of a change; and for himself--as he said in the plague--if he died,
he died.

Erasmus admitted frankly for himself that he did not like danger.

'As to me,' he wrote to Archbishop Warham, 'I have no inclination to risk my life for truth.
We have not all strength for martyrdom; and if trouble come, I shall imitate St. Peter. Popes
and emperors must settle the creeds. If they settle them well, so much the better; if ill,
I shall keep on the safe side.'

That is to say, truth was not the first necessity to Erasmus. He would prefer truth, if he
could have it. If not, he could get on moderately well upon falsehood. Luther could not. No
matter what the danger to himself, if he could smite a lie upon the head and kill it, he was
better pleased than by a thousand lives. We hear much of Luther's doctrine about faith. Stripped
of theological verbiage, that doctrine means this.

Reason says that, on the whole, truth and justice are desirable things. They make men happier
in themselves, and make society more prosperous. But there reason ends, and men will not die
for principles of utility. Faith says that between truth and lies, there is an infinite difference:
one is of God, the other of Satan; one is eternally to be loved, the other eternally to be
abhorred. It cannot say why, in language intelligible to reason. It is the voice of the nobler
nature in man speaking out of his heart.

While Tetzel, with his bull and his gilt car, was coming to Wittenberg, Luther, loyal still
to authority while there was a hope that authority would be on the side of right, wrote to
the Archbishop of Mayence to remonstrate.

The archbishop, as we know, was to have a share of Tetzel's spoils; and what were the complaints
of a poor insignificant monk to a supreme archbishop who was in debt and wanted money?

The Archbishop of Mayence flung the letter into his waste-paper basket; and Luther made his
solemn appeal from earthly dignitaries to the conscience of the German people. He set up his
protest on the church door at Wittenberg; and, in ninety-five propositions he challenged the
Catholic Church to defend Tetzel and his works.

The Pope's indulgences, he said, cannot take away sins. God alone remits sins; and He pardons
those who are penitent, without help from man's absolutions.

The Church may remit penalties which the Church inflicts. But the Church's power is in this
world only, and does not reach to purgatory.

If God has thought fit to place a man in purgatory, who shall say that it is good for him to
be taken out of purgatory? who shall say that he himself desires it?

True repentance does not shrink from chastisement. True repentance rather loves chastisement.

The bishops are asleep. It is better to give to the poor than to buy indulgences; and he who
sees his neighbour in want, and instead of helping his neighbour buys a pardon for himself,
is doing what is displeasing to God. Who is this man who dares to say that for so many crowns
the soul of a sinner can be made whole?

These, and like these, were Luther's propositions. Little guessed the Catholic prelates the
dimensions of the act which had been done. The Pope, when he saw the theses, smiled in good-natured
contempt. 'A drunken German wrote them,' he said; 'when he has slept off his wine, he will
be of another mind.'

Tetzel bayed defiance; the Dominican friars took up the quarrel; and Hochstrat of Cologne,
Reuchlin's enemy, clamoured for fire and faggot.

Voice answered voice. The religious houses all Germany over were like kennels of hounds howling
to each other across the spiritual waste. If souls could not be sung out of purgatory, their
occupation was gone.

Luther wrote to Pope Leo to defend himself; Leo cited him to answer for his audacity at Rome;
while to the young laymen, to the noble spirits all Europe over, Wittenberg became a beacon
of light shining in the universal darkness.

It was a trying time to Luther. Had he been a smaller man, he would have been swept away by
his sudden popularity--he would have placed himself at the head of some great democratic movement,
and in a few years his name would have disappeared in the noise and smoke of anarchy.

But this was not his nature. His fellow-townsmen were heartily on his side. He remained quietly
at his post in the Augustine Church at Wittenberg. If the powers of the world came down upon
him and killed him, he was ready to be killed. Of himself at all times he thought infinitely
little; and he believed that his death would be as serviceable to truth as his life.

Killed undoubtedly he would have been if the clergy could have had their way. It happened,
however, that Saxony just then was governed by a prince of no common order. Were all princes
like the Elector Frederick, we should have no need of democracy in this world--we should never
have heard of democracy. The clergy could not touch Luther against the will of the Wittenberg
senate, unless the Elector would help them; and, to the astonishment of everybody, the Elector
was disinclined to consent. The Pope himself wrote to exhort him to his duties. The Elector
still hesitated. His professed creed was the creed in which the Church had educated him; but
he had a clear secular understanding outside his formulas. When he read the propositions, they
did not seem to him the pernicious things which the monks said they were. 'There is much in
the Bible about Christ,' he said, 'but not much about Rome.' He sent for Erasmus, and asked
him what he thought about the matter.

The Elector knew to whom he was speaking. He wished for a direct answer, and looked Erasmus
full and broad in the face. Erasmus pinched his thin lips together. 'Luther,' he said at length,
'has committed two sins: he has touched the Pope's crown and the monks' bellies.'

He generously and strongly urged Frederick not to yield for the present to Pope Leo's importunacy;
and the Pope was obliged to try less hasty and more formal methods.

He had wished Luther to be sent to him to Rome, where his process would have had a rapid end.
As this could not be, the case was transferred to Augsburg, and a cardinal legate was sent
from Italy to look into it.

There was no danger of violence at Augsburg. The townspeople there and everywhere were on the
side of freedom; and Luther went cheerfully to defend himself. He walked from Wittenberg. You
can fancy him still in his monk's brown frock, with all his wardrobe on his back--an apostle
of the old sort. The citizens, high and low, attended him to the gates, and followed him along
the road, crying 'Luther for ever!' 'Nay,' he answered, 'Christ for ever!'

The cardinal legate, being reduced to the necessity of politeness, received him civilly. He
told him, however, simply and briefly, that the Pope insisted on his recantation, and would
accept nothing else. Luther requested the cardinal to point out to him where he was wrong.
The cardinal waived discussion. 'He was come to command,' he said, 'not to argue.' And Luther
had to tell him that it could not be.

Remonstrances, threats, entreaties, even bribes were tried. Hopes of high distinction and reward
were held out to him if he would only be reasonable. To the amazement of the proud Italian,
a poor peasant's son--a miserable friar of a provincial German town--was prepared to defy the
power and resist the prayers of the Sovereign of Christendom. 'What!' said the cardinal at
last to him, 'do you think the Pope cares for the opinion of a German boor? The Pope's little
finger is stronger than all Germany. Do you expect your princes to take up arms to defend you--you,
a wretched worm like you? I tell you, No! and where will you be then--where will you be then?'

Luther answered, 'Then, as now, in the hands of Almighty God.'

The Court dissolved. The cardinal carried back his report to his master. The Pope, so defied,
brought out his thunders; he excommunicated Luther; he wrote again to the elector, entreating
him not to soil his name and lineage by becoming a protector of heretics; and he required him,
without further ceremony, to render up the criminal to justice.

The elector's power was limited. As yet, the quarrel was simply between Luther and the Pope.
The elector was by no means sure that his bold subject was right--he was only not satisfied
that he was wrong--and it was a serious question with him how far he ought to go. The monk
might next be placed under the ban of the empire; and if he persisted in protecting him afterwards,
Saxony might have all the power of Germany upon it. He did not venture any more to refuse absolutely.
He temporised and delayed; while Luther himself, probably at the elector's instigation, made
overtures for peace to the Pope. Saving his duty to Christ, he promised to be for the future
an obedient son of the Church, and to say no more about indulgences if Tetzel ceased to defend
them.

'My being such a small creature,' Luther said afterwards, 'was a misfortune for the Pope. He
despised me too much! What, he thought, could a slave like me do to him--to him, who was the
greatest man in all the world. Had he accepted my proposal, he would have extinguished me.'

But the infallible Pope conducted himself like a proud, irascible, exceedingly fallible mortal.
To make terms with the town preacher of Wittenberg was too preposterous.

Just then the imperial throne fell vacant; and the pretty scandal I told you of, followed at
the choice of his successor. Frederick of Saxony might have been elected if he had liked--and
it would have been better for the world perhaps if Frederick had been more ambitious of high
dignities--but the Saxon Prince did not care to trouble himself with the imperial sceptre.
The election fell on Maximilian's grandson Charles--grandson also of Ferdinand the Catholic--Sovereign
of Spain; Sovereign of Burgundy and the Low Countries; Sovereign of Naples and Sicily; Sovereign,
beyond the Atlantic, of the New Empire of the Indies.

No fitter man could have been found to do the business of the Pope. With the empire of Germany
added to his inherited dominions, who could resist him?

To the new emperor, unless the elector yielded, Luther's case had now to be referred.

The elector, if he had wished, could not interfere. Germany was attentive, but motionless.
The students, the artisans, the tradesmen, were at heart with the Reformer; and their enthusiasm
could not be wholly repressed. The press grew fertile with pamphlets; and it was noticed that
all the printers and compositors went for Luther. The Catholics could not get their books into
type without sending them to France or the Low Countries.

Yet none of the princes except the elector had as yet shown him favour. The bishops were hostile
to a man. The nobles had given no sign; and their place would be naturally on the side of authority.
They had no love for bishops--there was hope in that; and they looked with no favour on the
huge estates of the religious orders. But no one could expect that they would peril their lands
and lives for an insignificant monk.

There was an interval of two years before the emperor was at leisure to take up the question.
The time was spent in angry altercation, boding no good for the future.

The Pope issued a second bull condemning Luther and his works. Luther replied by burning the
bull in the great square at Wittenberg.

At length, in April 1521, the Diet of the Empire assembled at Worms, and Luther was called
to defend himself in the presence of Charles the Fifth.

That it should have come to this at all, in days of such high-handed authority, was sufficiently
remarkable. It indicated something growing in the minds of men, that the so-called Church was
not to carry things any longer in the old style. Popes and bishops might order, but the laity
intended for the future to have opinions of their own how far such orders should be obeyed.

The Pope expected anyhow that the Diet, by fair means or foul, would now rid him of his adversary.
The elector, who knew the ecclesiastical ways of handling such matters, made it a condition
of his subject appearing, that he should have a safe conduct, under the emperor's hand; that
Luther, if judgment went against him, should be free for the time to return to the place from
which he had come; and that he, the elector, should determine afterwards what should be done
with him.

When the interests of the Church were concerned, safe conducts, it was too well known, were
poor security. Pope Clement the Seventh, a little after, when reproached for breaking a promise,
replied with a smile, 'The Pope has power to bind and to loose.' Good, in the eyes of ecclesiastical
authorities, meant what was good for the Church; evil, whatever was bad for the Church; and
the highest moral obligation became sin when it stood in St. Peter's way.

There had been an outburst of free thought in Bohemia a century and a half before. John Huss,
Luther's forerunner, came with a safe conduct to the Council of Constance; but the bishops
ruled that safe conducts could not protect heretics. They burnt John Huss for all their promises,
and they hoped now that so good a Catholic as Charles would follow so excellent a precedent.
Pope Leo wrote himself to beg that Luther's safe conduct should not be observed. The bishops
and archbishops, when Charles consulted them, took the same view as the Pope.

'There is something in the office of a bishop,' Luther said, a year or two later, 'which is
dreadfully demoralising. Even good men change their natures at their consecration; Satan enters
into them as he entered into Judas, as soon as they have taken the sop.'

It was most seriously likely that, if Luther trusted himself at the Diet on the faith of his
safe conduct, he would never return alive. Rumours of intended treachery were so strong, that
if he refused to go, the elector meant to stand by him at any cost. Should he appear, or not
appear? It was for himself to decide. If he stayed away, judgment would go against him by default.
Charles would call out the forces of the empire, and Saxony would be invaded.

Civil war would follow, with insurrection all over Germany, with no certain prospect except
bloodshed and misery.

Luther was not a man to expose his country to peril that his own person might escape. He had
provoked the storm; and if blood was to be shed, his blood ought at least to be the first.
He went. On his way, a friend came to warn him again that foul play was intended, that he was
condemned already, that his books had been burnt by the hangman, and that he was a dead man
if he proceeded.

Luther trembled--he owned it--but he answered, 'Go to Worms! I will go if there are as many
devils in Worms as there are tiles upon the roofs of the houses.'

The roofs, when he came into the city, were crowded, not with devils, but with the inhabitants,
all collecting there to see him as he passed. A nobleman gave him shelter for the night; the
next day he was led to the Town Hall.

No more notable spectacle had been witnessed in this planet for many a century--not, perhaps,
since a greater than Luther stood before the Roman Procurator.

There on the raised dais sate the sovereign of half the world. There on either side of him
stood the archbishops, the ministers of state, the princes of the empire, gathered together
to hear and judge the son of a poor miner, who had made the world ring with his name.

The body of the hall was thronged with knights and nobles--stern hard men in dull gleaming
armour. Luther, in his brown frock, was led forward between their ranks. The looks which greeted
him were not all unfriendly. The first Article of a German credo was belief in courage. Germany
had had its feuds in times past with Popes of Rome, and they were not without pride that a
poor countryman of theirs should have taken by the beard the great Italian priest. They had
settled among themselves that, come what would, there should be fair play; and they looked
on half admiring, and half in scorn.

As Luther passed up the hall, a steel baron touched him on the shoulder with his gauntlet.

'Pluck up thy spirit, little monk;' he said, 'some of us here have seen warm work in our time,
but, by my troth, nor I nor any knight in this company ever needed a stout heart more than
thou needest it now. If thou hast faith in these doctrines of thine, little monk, go on, in
the name of God.'

'Yes, in the name of God,' said Luther, throwing back his head, 'In the name of God, forward!'

As at Augsburg, one only question was raised. Luther had broken the laws of the Church. He
had taught doctrines which the Pope had declared to be false. Would he or would he not retract?

As at Augsburg, he replied briefly that he would retract when his doctrines were not declared
to be false merely, but were proved to be false. Then, but not till then. That was his answer,
and his last word.

There, as you understand, the heart of the matter indeed rested. In those words lay the whole
meaning of the Reformation. Were men to go on for ever saying that this and that was true,
because the Pope affirmed it? Or were Popes' decrees thenceforward to be tried like the words
of other men--by the ordinary laws of evidence?

It required no great intellect to understand that a Pope's pardon, which you could buy for
five shillings, could not really get a soul out of purgatory. It required a quality much rarer
than intellect to look such a doctrine in the face--sanctioned as it was by the credulity of
ages, and backed by the pomp and pageantry of earthly power--and say to it openly, 'You are
a lie.' Cleverness and culture could have given a thousand reasons--they did then and they
do now--why an indulgence should be believed in; when honesty and common sense could give but
one reason for thinking otherwise. Cleverness and imposture get on excellently well together--imposture
and veracity, never.

Luther looked at those wares of Tetzel's, and said, 'Your pardons are no pardons at all--no
letters of credit on heaven, but flash notes of the Bank of Humbug, and you know it.' They
did know it. The conscience of every man in Europe answered back, that what Luther said was true.

Bravery, honesty, veracity, these were the qualities which were needed--which were needed then,
and are needed always, as the root of all real greatness in man.

The first missionaries of Christianity, when they came among the heathen nations, and found
them worshipping idols, did not care much to reason that an image which man had made could
not be God. The priests might have been a match for them in reasoning. They walked up to the
idol in the presence of its votaries. They threw stones at it, spat upon it, insulted it. 'See,'
they said, 'I do this to your God. If he is God, let him avenge himself.'

It was a simple argument; always effective; easy, and yet most difficult. It required merely
a readiness to be killed upon the spot by the superstition which is outraged.

And so, and only so, can truth make its way for us in any such matters. The form changes--the
thing remains. Superstition, folly, and cunning will go on to the end of time, spinning their
poison webs around the consciences of mankind. Courage and veracity--these qualities, and only
these, avail to defeat them.

From the moment that Luther left the emperor's presence a free man, the spell of Absolutism
was broken, and the victory of the Reformation secured. The ban of the Pope had fallen; the
secular arm had been called to interfere; the machinery of authority strained as far as it
would bear. The emperor himself was an unconscious convert to the higher creed. The Pope had
urged him to break his word. The Pope had told him that honour was nothing, and morality was
nothing, where the interests of orthodoxy were compromised. The emperor had refused to be tempted
into perjury; and, in refusing, had admitted that there was a spiritual power upon the earth,
above the Pope, and above him.

The party of the Church felt it so. A plot was formed to assassinate Luther on his return to
Saxony. The insulted majesty of Rome could be vindicated at least by the dagger.

But this, too, failed. The elector heard what was intended. A party of horse, disguised as
banditti, waylaid the Reformer upon the road, and carried him off to the castle of Wartburg,
where he remained out of harm's way till the general rising of Germany placed him beyond the
reach of danger.

At Wartburg for the present evening we leave him.

The Emperor Charles and Luther never met again. The monks of Yuste, who watched on the deathbed
of Charles, reported that at the last hour he repented that he had kept his word, and reproached
himself for having allowed the arch-heretic to escape from his hands.

It is possible that, when the candle of life was burning low, and spirit and flesh were failing
together, and the air of the sick room was thick and close with the presence of the angel of
death, the nobler nature of the emperor might have yielded to the influences which were around
him. His confessor might have thrust into his lips the words which he so wished to hear.

But Charles the Fifth, though a Catholic always, was a Catholic of the old grand type, to whom
creed and dogmas were but the robe of a regal humanity. Another story is told of Charles--an
authentic story this one--which makes me think that the monks of Yuste mistook or maligned
him. Six and twenty years after this scene at Worms, when the then dawning heresy had become
broad day; when Luther had gone to his rest--and there had gathered about his name the hate
which mean men feel for an enemy who has proved too strong for them--a passing vicissitude
in the struggle brought the emperor at the head of his army to Wittenberg.

The vengeance which the monks could not inflict upon him in life, they proposed to wreak upon
his bones.

The emperor desired to be conducted to Luther's tomb; and as he stood gazing at it, full of
many thoughts, some one suggested that the body should be taken up and burnt at the stake in
the Market Place.

There was nothing unusual in the proposal; it was the common practice of the Catholic Church
with the remains of heretics who were held unworthy to be left in repose in hallowed ground.
There was scarcely, perhaps, another Catholic prince who would have hesitated to comply. But
Charles was one of nature's gentlemen; he answered, 'I war not with the dead.'

LECTURE III.

We have now entered upon the movement which broke the power of the Papacy--which swept Germany,
Sweden, Denmark, Holland, England, Scotland, into the stream of revolution, and gave a new
direction to the spiritual history of mankind.

You would not thank me if I were to take you out into that troubled ocean. I confine myself,
and I wish you to confine your attention, to the two kinds of men who appear as leaders in
times of change--of whom Erasmus and Luther are respectively the types.

On one side there are the large-minded latitudinarian philosophers--men who have no confidence
in the people--who have no passionate convictions; moderate men, tolerant men, who trust to
education, to general progress in knowledge and civilisation, to forbearance, to endurance,
to time--men who believe that all wholesome reforms proceed downwards from the educated to
the multitudes; who regard with contempt, qualified by terror, appeals to the popular conscience
or to popular intelligence.

Opposite to these are the men of faith--and by faith I do not mean belief in dogmas, but belief
in goodness, belief in justice, in righteousness, above all, belief in truth. Men of faith
consider conscience of more importance than knowledge--or rather as a first condition--without
which all the knowledge in the world is no use to a man--if he wishes to be indeed a man in
any high and noble sense of the word. They are not contented with looking for what may be useful
or pleasant to themselves; they look by quite other methods for what is honourable--for what
is good--for what is just. They believe that if they can find out that, then at all hazards,
and in spite of all present consequences to themselves, that is to be preferred. If, individually
and to themselves, no visible good ever came from it, in this world or in any other, still
they would say, 'Let us do that and nothing else. Life will be of no value to us if we are
to use it only for our own gratification.'

The soldier before a battle knows that if he shirks and pretends to be ill, he may escape danger
and make sure of his life. There are very few men, indeed, if it comes to that, who would not
sooner die ten times over than so dishonour themselves. Men of high moral nature carry out
the same principle into the details of their daily life; they do not care to live unless they
may live nobly. Like my uncle Toby, they have but one fear--the fear of doing a wrong thing.

I call this faith, because there is no proof, such as will satisfy the scientific enquirer,
that there is any such thing as moral truth--any such thing as absolute right and wrong at
all. As the Scripture says, 'Verily, thou art a God that hidest thyself.' The forces of nature
pay no respect to what we call good and evil. Prosperity does not uniformly follow virtue;
nor are defeat and failure necessary consequences of vice.

Certain virtues--temperance, industry, and things within reasonable limits--command their reward.
Sensuality, idleness, and waste, commonly lead to ruin.

But prosperity is consistent with intense worldliness, intense selfishness, intense hardness
of heart; while the grander features of human character--self-sacrifice, disregard of pleasure,
patriotism, love of knowledge, devotion to any great and good cause--these have no tendency
to bring men what is called fortune. They do not even necessarily promote their happiness;
for do what they will in this way, the horizon of what they desire to do perpetually flies
before them. High hopes and enthusiasms are generally disappointed in results; and the wrongs,
the cruelties, the wretchednesses of all kinds which for ever prevail among mankind--the shortcomings
in himself of which he becomes more conscious as he becomes really better--these things, you
may be sure, will prevent a noble-minded man from ever being particularly happy.

If you see a man happy, as the world goes--contented with himself and contented with what is
round him--such a man may be, and probably is, decent and respectable; but the highest is not
in him, and the highest will not come out of him.

Judging merely by outward phenomena--judging merely by what we call reason--you cannot prove
that there is any moral government in the world at all, except what men, for their own convenience,
introduce into it. Right and wrong resolve themselves into principles of utility and social
convenience. Enlightened selfishness prescribes a decent rule of conduct for common purposes;
and virtue, by a large school of philosophy, is completely resolved into that.

True, when nations go on long on the selfish hypothesis, they are apt to find at last that
they have been mistaken. They find it in bankruptcy of honour and character--in social wreck
and dissolution. All lies in serious matters end at last, as Carlyle says, in broken heads.
That is the final issue which they are sure to come to in the long run. The Maker of the world
does not permit a society to continue which forgets or denies the nobler principles of action.

But the end is often long in coming; and these nobler principles are meanwhile not provided
for us by the inductive philosophy.

Patriotism, for instance, of which we used to think something--a readiness to devote our energies
while we live, to devote our lives, if nothing else will serve, to what we call our country--what
are we to say of that?

I once asked a distinguished philosopher what he thought of patriotism. He said he thought
it was a compound of vanity and superstition; a bad kind of prejudice, which would die out
with the growth of reason. My friend believed in the progress of humanity--he could not narrow
his sympathies to so small a thing as his own country. I could but say to myself, 'Thank God,
then, we are not yet a nation of philosophers.'

A man who takes up with philosophy like that, may write fine books, and review articles and
such like, but at the bottom of him he is a poor caitiff, and there is no more to be said about
him.

So when the air is heavy with imposture, and men live only to make money, and the service of
God is become a thing of words and ceremonies, and the kingdom of heaven is bought and sold,
and all that is high and pure in man is smothered by corruption--fire of the same kind bursts
out in higher natures with a fierceness which cannot be controlled; and, confident in truth
and right, they call fearlessly on the seven thousand in Israel who have not bowed the knee
to Baal to rise and stand by them.

They do not ask whether those whom they address have wide knowledge of history, or science,
or philosophy; they ask rather that they shall be honest, that they shall be brave, that they
shall be true to the common light which God has given to all His children. They know well that
conscience is no exceptional privilege of the great or the cultivated, that to be generous
and unselfish is no prerogative of rank or intellect.

Erasmus considered that, for the vulgar, a lie might be as good as truth, and often better.
A lie, ascertained to be a lie, to Luther was deadly poison--poison to him, and poison to all
who meddled with it. In his own genuine greatness, he was too humble to draw insolent distinctions
in his own favour; or to believe that any one class on earth is of more importance than another
in the eyes of the Great Maker of them all.

Well, then, you know what I mean by faith, and what I mean by intellect. It was not that Luther
was without intellect. He was less subtle, less learned, than Erasmus; but in mother wit, in
elasticity, in force, and imaginative power, he was as able a man as ever lived. Luther created
the German language as an instrument of literature. His translation of the Bible is as rich
and grand as our own, and his table talk as full of matter as Shakespeare's plays.

Again; you will mistake me if you think I represent Erasmus as a man without conscience, or
belief in God and goodness. But in Luther that belief was a certainty; in Erasmus it was only
a high probability--and the difference between the two is not merely great, it is infinite.
In Luther, it was the root; in Erasmus, it was the flower. In Luther, it was the first principle
of life; in Erasmus, it was an inference which might be taken away, and yet leave the world
a very tolerable and habitable place after all.

You see the contrast in their early lives. You see Erasmus--light, bright, sarcastic, fond
of pleasure, fond of society, fond of wine and kisses, and intellectual talk and polished company.
You see Luther throwing himself into the cloister, that he might subdue his will to the will
of God; prostrate in prayer, in nights of agony, and distracting his easy-going confessor with
the exaggerated scruples of his conscience.

You see it in the effects of their teaching. You see Erasmus addressing himself with persuasive
eloquence to kings, and popes, and prelates; and for answer, you see Pope Leo sending Tetzel
over Germany with his carriage-load of indulgences. You see Erasmus's dearest friend, our own
gifted admirable Sir Thomas More, taking his seat beside the bishops and sending poor Protestant
artisans to the stake.

You see Luther, on the other side, standing out before the world, one lone man, with all authority
against him--taking lies by the throat, and Europe thrilling at his words, and saying after
him, 'The reign of Imposture shall end.'

Let us follow the course of Erasmus after the tempest had broken.

He knew Luther to be right. Luther had but said what Erasmus had been all his life convinced
of, and Luther looked to see him come forward and take his place at his side. Had Erasmus done
so, the course of things would have been far happier and better. His prodigious reputation
would have given the Reformers the influence with the educated which they had won for themselves
with the multitude, and the Pope would have been left without a friend to the north of the
Alps. But there would have been some danger--danger to the leaders, if certainty of triumph
to the cause--and Erasmus had no gift for martyrdom.

His first impulse was generous. He encouraged the elector, as we have seen, to protect Luther
from the Pope. 'I looked on Luther,' he wrote to Duke George of Saxe, 'as a necessary evil
in the corruption of the Church; a medicine, bitter and drastic, from which sounder health
would follow.'

And again, more boldly: 'Luther has taken up the cause of honesty and good sense against abominations
which are no longer tolerable. His enemies are men under whose worthlessness the Christian
world has groaned too long.'

So to the heads of the Church he wrote, pressing them to be moderate and careful:--

'I neither approve Luther nor condemn him,' he said to the Archbishop of Mayence; 'if he is
innocent, he ought not to be oppressed by the factions of the wicked; if he is in error, he
should be answered, not destroyed. The theologians'--observe how true they remain to the universal
type in all times and in all countries--'the theologians do not try to answer him. They do
but raise an insane and senseless clamour, and shriek and curse. Heresy, heretic, heresiarch,
schismatic, Antichrist--these are the words which are in the mouths of all of them; and, of
course, they condemn without reading. I warned them what they were doing. I told them to scream
less, and to think more. Luther's life they admit to be innocent and blameless. Such a tragedy
I never saw. The most humane men are thirsting for his blood, and they would rather kill him
than mend him. The Dominicans are the worst, and are more knaves than fools. In old times,
even a heretic was quietly listened to. If he recanted, he was absolved; if he persisted, he
was at worst excommunicated. Now they will have nothing but blood. Not to agree with them is
heresy. To know Greek is heresy. To speak good Latin is heresy. Whatever they do not understand
is heresy. Learning, they pretend, has given birth to Luther, though Luther has but little
of it. Luther thinks more of the Gospel than of scholastic divinity, and that is his crime.
This is plain at least, that the best men everywhere are those who are least offended with him.'

Even to Pope Leo, in the midst of his fury, Erasmus wrote bravely; separating himself from
Luther, yet deprecating violence. 'Nothing,' he said, 'would so recommend the new teaching
as the howling of fools:' while to a member of Charles's council he insisted that 'severity
had been often tried in such cases and had always failed; unless Luther was encountered calmly
and reasonably, a tremendous convulsion was inevitable.'

Wisely said all this, but it presumed that those whom he was addressing were reasonable men;
and high officials, touched in their pride, are a class of persons of whom Solomon may have
been thinking when he said, 'Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man rather than a fool
in his folly.'

So to Luther, so to the people, Erasmus preached moderation. It was like preaching to the winds
in a hurricane. The typhoon itself is not wilder than human creatures when once their passions
are stirred. You cannot check them; but, if you are brave, you can guide them wisely. And this,
Erasmus had not the heart to do.

He said at the beginning, 'I will not countenance revolt against authority. A bad government
is better than none.' But he said at the same time, 'You bishops, cease to be corrupt: you
popes and cardinals, reform your wicked courts: you monks, leave your scandalous lives, and
obey the rules of your order, so you may recover the respect of mankind, and be obeyed and
loved as before.'

When he found that the case was desperate; that his exhortations were but words addressed to
the winds; that corruption had tainted the blood; that there was no hope except in revolution--as,
indeed, in his heart he knew from the first that there was none--then his place ought to have
been with Luther.

But Erasmus, as the tempest rose, could but stand still in feeble uncertainty. The responsibilities
of his reputation weighed him down.

The Lutherans said, 'You believe as we do.' The Catholics said, 'You are a Lutheran at heart;
if you are not, prove it by attacking Luther.'

He grew impatient. He told lies. He said he had not read Luther's books, and had no time to
read them. What was he, he said, that he should meddle in such a quarrel. He was the vine and
the fig tree of the Book of Judges. The trees said to them, Rule over us. The vine and the
fig tree answered, they would not leave their sweetness for such a thankless office. 'I am
a poor actor,' he said; 'I prefer to be a spectator of the play.'

But he was sore at heart, and bitter with disappointment. All had been going on so smoothly--literature
was reviving, art and science were spreading, the mind of the world was being reformed in the
best sense by the classics of Greece and Rome, and now an apple of discord had been flung out
into Europe.

The monks who had fought against enlightenment could point to the confusion as a fulfilment
of their prophecies; and he, and all that he had done, was brought to disrepute.

To protect himself from the Dominicans, he was forced to pretend to an orthodoxy which he did
not possess. Were all true which Luther had written, he pretended that it ought not to have
been said, or should have been addressed in a learned language to the refined and educated.

He doubted whether it was not better on the whole to teach the people lies for their good,
when truth was beyond their comprehension. Yet he could not for all that wish the Church to
be successful.

'I fear for that miserable Luther,' he said; 'the popes and princes are furious with him. His
own destruction would be no great matter, but if the monks triumph there will be no bearing
them. They will never rest till they have rooted learning out of the land. The Pope expects
me to write against Luther. The orthodox, it appears, can call him names--call him blockhead,
fool, heretic, toadstool, schismatic, and Antichrist--but they must come to me to answer his
arguments.'

'Oh! that this had never been,' he wrote to our own Archbishop Warham. 'Now there is no hope
for any good. It is all over with quiet learning, thought, piety, and progress; violence is
on one side and folly on the other; and they accuse me of having caused it all. If I joined
Luther I could only perish with him, and I do not mean to run my neck into a halter. Popes
and emperors must decide matters. I will accept what is good, and do as I can with the rest.
Peace on any terms is better than the justest war.'

Erasmus never stooped to real baseness. He was too clever, too genuine--he had too great a
contempt for worldly greatness. They offered him a bishopric if he would attack Luther. He
only laughed at them. What was a bishopric to him? He preferred a quiet life among his books
at Louvaine.

But there was no more quiet for Erasmus at Louvaine or anywhere. Here is a scene between him
and the Prior of the Dominicans in the presence of the Rector of the University.

The Dominican had preached at Erasmus in the University pulpit. Erasmus complained to the rector,
and the rector invited the Dominican to defend himself. Erasmus tells the story.

'I sate on one side and the monk on the other, the rector between us to prevent our scratching.

'The monk asked what the matter was, and said he had done no harm.

'I said he had told lies of me, and that was harm.

'It was after dinner. The holy man was flushed. He turned purple.

'"Why do you abuse monks in your books?" he said.

'"I spoke of your order," I answered. "I did not mention you. You denounced me by name as a
friend of Luther."

'He raged like a madman. "You are the cause of all this trouble," he said; "you are a chameleon,
you can twist everything."

'"You see what a fellow he is," said I, turning to the rector. "If it comes to calling names,
why I can do that too; but let us be reasonable."

'He still roared and cursed; he vowed he would never rest till he had destroyed Luther.

'I said he might curse Luther till he burst himself if he pleased. I complained of his cursing me.

'He answered, that if I did not agree with Luther, I ought to say so, and write against him.

'"Why should I?" urged I. "The quarrel is none of mine. Why should I irritate Luther against
me, when he has horns and knows how to use them?"

'"Well, then," said he, "if you will not write, at least you can say that we Dominicans have
had the best of the argument."

'"How can I do that?" replied I. "You have burnt his books, but I never heard that you had
answered them."

'He almost spat upon me. I understand that there is to be a form of prayer for the conversion
of Erasmus and Luther.'

But Erasmus was not to escape so easily. Adrian the Sixth, who succeeded Leo, was his old schoolfellow,
and implored his assistance in terms which made refusal impossible. Adrian wanted Erasmus to
come to him to Rome. He was too wary to walk into the wolf's den. But Adrian required him to
write, and reluctantly he felt that he must comply.

What was he to say?

'If his Holiness will set about reform in good earnest,' he wrote to the Pope's secretary,
'and if he will not be too hard on Luther, I may, perhaps, do good; but what Luther writes
of the tyranny, the corruption, the covetousness of the Roman court, would, my friend, that
it was not true.'

To Adrian himself, Erasmus addressed a letter really remarkable.

'I cannot go to your Holiness,' he said, 'King Calculus will not let me. I have dreadful health,
which this tornado has not improved. I, who was the favourite of everybody, am now cursed by
everybody--at Louvaine by the monks; in Germany by the Lutherans. I have fallen into trouble
in my old age, like a mouse into a pot of pitch. You say, Come to Rome; you might as well say
to the crab, Fly. The crab says, Give me wings; I say, Give me back my health and my youth.
If I write calmly against Luther I shall be called lukewarm; if I write as he does, I shall
stir a hornet's nest. People think he can be put down by force. The more force you try, the
stronger he will grow. Such disorders cannot be cured in that way. The Wickliffites in England
were put down, but the fire smouldered.

'If you mean to use violence you have no need of me; but mark this--if monks and theologians
think only of themselves, no good will come of it. Look rather into the causes of all this
confusion, and apply your remedies there. Send for the best and wisest men from all parts of
Christendom and take their advice.'

Tell a crab to fly. Tell a pope to be reasonable. You must relieve him of his infallibility
if you want him to act like a sensible man. Adrian could undertake no reforms, and still besought
Erasmus to take arms for him.

Erasmus determined to gratify Adrian with least danger to himself and least injury to Luther.

'I remember Uzzah, and am afraid,' he said, in his quizzing way; 'it is not everyone who is
allowed to uphold the ark. Many a wise man has attacked Luther, and what has been effected?
The Pope curses, the emperor threatens; there are prisons, confiscations, faggots; and all
is vain. What can a poor pigmy like me do?

       *       *       *       *       *

'The world has been besotted with ceremonies. Miserable monks have ruled all, entangling men's
consciences for their own benefit. Dogma has been heaped on dogma. The bishops have been tyrants,
the Pope's commissaries have been rascals. Luther has been an instrument of God's displeasure,
like Pharaoh or Nebuchadnezzar, or the Cæsars, and I shall not attack him on such grounds as
these.'

Erasmus was too acute to defend against Luther the weak point of a bad cause. He would not
declare for him--but he would not go over to his enemies. Yet, unless he quarrelled with Adrian,
he could not be absolutely silent; so he chose a subject to write upon on which all schools
of theology, Catholic or Protestant--all philosophers, all thinkers of whatever kind, have
been divided from the beginning of time: fate and free will, predestination and the liberty
of man--a problem which has no solution--which may be argued even from eternity to eternity.

The reason of the selection was obvious. Erasmus wished to please the Pope and not exasperate
Luther. Of course he pleased neither, and offended both.

Luther, who did not comprehend his motive, was needlessly angry. Adrian and the monks were
openly contemptuous. Sick of them and their quarrels, he grew weary of the world, and began
to wish to be well out of it.

It is characteristic of Erasmus that, like many highly-gifted men, but unlike all theologians,
he expressed a hope for sudden death, and declared it to be one of the greatest blessings which
a human creature can receive.

Do not suppose that he broke down or showed the white feather to fortune's buffets. Through
all storms he stuck bravely to his own proper work; editing classics, editing the Fathers,
writing paraphrases--still doing for Europe what no other man could have done.

The Dominicans hunted him away from Louvaine. There was no living for him in Germany for the
Protestants. He suffered dreadfully from the stone, too, and in all ways had a cruel time of
it. Yet he continued, for all that, to make life endurable.

He moved about in Switzerland and on the Upper Rhine. The lakes, the mountains, the waterfalls,
the villas on the hill slopes, delighted Erasmus when few people else cared for such things.
He was particular about his wine. The vintage of Burgundy was as new blood in his veins, and
quickened his pen into brightness and life.

The German wines he liked worse--for this point among others, which is curious to observe in
those days. The great capitalist winegrowers, anti-Reformers all of them, were people without
conscience and humanity, and adulterated their liquors. Of course they did. They believed in
nothing but money, and this was the way to make money.

'The water they mix with the wine,' Erasmus says, 'is the least part of the mischief. They
put in lime, and alum, and resin, and sulphur, and salt--and then they say it is good enough
for heretics.'

Observe the practical issue of religious corruption. Show me a people where trade is dishonest,
and I will show you a people where religion is a sham.

'We hang men that steal money,' Erasmus exclaimed, writing doubtless with the remembrance of
a stomach-ache. 'These wretches steal our money and our lives too, and get off scot free.'

He settled at last at Basle, which the storm had not yet reached, and tried to bury himself
among his books. The shrieks of the conflict, however, still troubled his ears. He heard his
own name still cursed, and he could not bear it or sit quiet under it.

His correspondence was still enormous. The high powers still appealed to him for advice and
help: of open meddling he would have no more; he did not care, he said, to make a post of himself
for every dog of a theologian to defile. Advice, however, he continued to give in the old style.

'Put down the preachers on both sides. Fill the pulpits with men who will kick controversy
into the kennel, and preach piety and good manners. Teach nothing in the schools but what bears
upon life and duty. Punish those who break the peace, and punish no one else; and when the
new opinions have taken root, allow liberty of conscience.'

Perfection of wisdom; but a wisdom which, unfortunately, was three centuries at least out of
date, which even now we have not grown big enough to profit by. The Catholic princes and bishops
were at work with fire and faggot. The Protestants were pulling down monasteries, and turning
the monks and nuns out into the world. The Catholics declared that Erasmus was as much to blame
as Luther. The Protestants held him responsible for the persecutions, and insisted, not without
reason, that if Erasmus had been true to his conscience, the whole Catholic world must have
accepted the Reformation.

He suffered bitterly under these attacks upon him. He loved quiet--and his ears were deafened
with clamour. He liked popularity--and he was the best abused person in Europe. Others who
suffered in the same way he could advise to leave the black-coated jackdaws to their noise--but
he could not follow his own counsel. When the curs were at his heels, he could not restrain
himself from lashing out at them; and, from his retreat at Basle, his sarcasms flashed out
like jagged points of lightning.

Describing an emeute, and the burning of an image of a saint, 'They insulted the poor image
so,' he said, 'it is a marvel there was no miracle. The saint worked so many in the good old
times.'

When Luther married an escaped nun, the Catholics exclaimed that Antichrist would be born from
such an incestuous intercourse. 'Nay,' Erasmus said, 'if monk and nun produce Antichrist, there
must have been legions of Antichrists these many years.'

More than once he was tempted to go over openly to Luther--not from a noble motive, but, as
he confessed, 'to make those furies feel the difference between him and them.'

He was past sixty, with broken health and failing strength. He thought of going back to England,
but England had by this time caught fire, and Basle had caught fire. There was no peace on earth.

'The horse has his heels,' he said, when advised to be quiet, 'the dog his teeth, the hedgehog
his spines, the bee his sting. I myself have my tongue and my pen, and why should I not use them?'

Yet to use them to any purpose now, he must take a side, and, sorely tempted as he was, he
could not.

With the negative part of the Protestant creed he sympathised heartily; but he did not understand
Luther's doctrine of faith, because he had none of his own, and he disliked it as a new dogma.

He regarded Luther's movement as an outburst of commonplace revolution, caused by the folly
and wickedness of the authorities, but with no organising vitality in itself; and his chief
distress, as we gather from his later letters, was at his own treatment. He had done his best
for both sides. He had failed, and was abused by everybody.

Thus passed away the last years of one of the most gifted men that Europe has ever seen. I
have quoted many of his letters. I will add one more passage, written near the end of his life,
very touching and pathetic:--

'Hercules,' he said, 'could not fight two monsters at once; while I, poor wretch, have lions,
cerberuses, cancers, scorpions every day at my sword's point; not to mention smaller vermin--rats,
mosquitoes, bugs, and fleas. My troops of friends are turned to enemies. At dinner-tables or
social gatherings, in churches and king's courts, in public carriage or public flyboat, scandal
pursues me, and calumny defiles my name. Every goose now hisses at Erasmus; and it is worse
than being stoned, once for all, like Stephen, or shot with arrows like Sebastian.

'They attack me now even for my Latin style, and spatter me with epigrams. Fame I would have
parted with; but to be the sport of blackguards--to be pelted with potsherds and dirt and ordure--is
not this worse than death?

'There is no rest for me in my age, unless I join Luther; and I cannot, for I cannot accept
his doctrines. Sometimes I am stung with a desire to avenge my wrongs; but I say to myself,
"Will you, to gratify your spleen, raise your hand against your mother the Church, who begot
you at the font and fed you with the word of God?" I cannot do it. Yet I understand now how
Arius, and Tertullian, and Wickliff were driven into schism. The theologians say I am their
enemy. Why? Because I bade monks remember their vows; because I told parsons to leave their
wranglings and read the Bible; because I told popes and cardinals to look at the Apostles,
and make themselves more like to them. If this is to be their enemy, then indeed I have injured
them.'

This was almost the last. The stone, advancing years, and incessant toil had worn him to a
shred. The clouds grew blacker. News came from England that his dear friends More and Fisher
had died upon the scaffold. He had long ceased to care for life; and death, almost as sudden
as he had longed for, gave him peace at last.

So ended Desiderius Erasmus, the world's idol for so many years; and dying heaped with undeserved
but too intelligible anathemas, seeing all that he had laboured for swept away by the whirlwind.

Do not let me lead you to undervalue him. Without Erasmus, Luther would have been impossible;
and Erasmus really succeeded--so much of him as deserved to succeed--in Luther's victory.

He was brilliantly gifted. His industry never tired. His intellect was true to itself; and
no worldly motives ever tempted him into insincerity. He was even far braver than he professed
to be. Had he been brought to the trial, he would have borne it better than many a man who
boasted louder of his courage.

And yet, in his special scheme for remodelling the mind of Europe, he failed hopelessly--almost
absurdly. He believed, himself, that his work was spoilt by the Reformation; but, in fact,
under no conditions could any more have come of it.

Literature and cultivation will feed life when life exists already; and toleration and latitudinarianism
are well enough when mind and conscience are awake and energetic of themselves.

When there is no spiritual life at all; when men live only for themselves and for sensual pleasure;
when religion is superstition, and conscience a name, and God an idol half feared and half
despised--then, for the restoration of the higher nature in man, qualities are needed different
in kind from any which Erasmus possessed.

And now to go back to Luther. I cannot tell you all that Luther did; it would be to tell you
all the story of the German Reformation. I want you rather to consider the kind of man that
Luther was, and to see in his character how he came to achieve what he did.

You remember that the Elector of Saxony, after the Diet of Worms, sent him to the Castle of
Wartburg, to prevent him from being murdered or kidnapped. He remained there many months; and
during that time the old ecclesiastical institutions of Germany were burning like a North American
forest. The monasteries were broken up; the estates were appropriated by the nobles; the monks
were sent wandering into the world. The bishops looked helplessly on while their ancient spiritual
dominion was torn to pieces and trodden under foot. The Elector of Saxony, the Landgrave of
Hesse, and several more of the princes, declared for the Reformation. The Protestants had a
majority in the Diet, and controlled the force of the empire. Charles the Fifth, busy with
his French wars, and in want of money, dared not press questions to a crisis which he had not
power to cope with; and he was obliged for a time to recognise what he could not prevent. You
would have thought Luther would have been well pleased to see the seed which he had sown bear
fruit so rapidly; yet it was exactly while all this was going on that he experienced those
temptations of the devil of which he has left so wonderful an account.

We shall have our own opinions on the nature of these apparitions. But Luther, it is quite
certain, believed that Satan himself attacked him in person. Satan, he tells us, came often
to him, and said, 'See what you have done. Behold this ancient Church--this mother of saints--polluted
and defiled by brutal violence. And it is you--you, a poor ignorant monk, that have set the
people on to their unholy work. Are you so much wiser than the saints who approved the things
which you have denounced? Popes, bishops, clergy, kings, emperors--are none of these--are not
all these together--wiser than Martin Luther the monk?'

The devil, he says, caused him great agony by these suggestions. He fell into deep fits of
doubt and humiliation and despondency. And wherever these thoughts came from, we can only say
that they were very natural thoughts--natural and right. He called them temptations; yet these
were temptations which would not have occurred to any but a high-minded man.

He had, however, done only what duty had forced him to do. His business was to trust to God,
who had begun the work and knew what He meant to make of it. His doubts and misgivings, therefore,
he ascribed to Satan, and his enormous imaginative vigour gave body to the voice which was
speaking in him.

He tells many humorous stories--not always producible--of the means with which he encountered
his offensive visitor.

'The devil,' he says, 'is very proud, and what he least likes is to be laughed at.' One night
he was disturbed by something rattling in his room; the modern unbeliever will suppose it was
a mouse. He got up, lit a candle, searched the apartment through, and could find nothing--the
Evil One was indisputably there.

'Oh!' he said, 'it is you, is it?' He returned to bed, and went to sleep.

Think as you please about the cause of the noise, but remember that Luther had not the least
doubt that he was alone in the room with the actual devil, who, if he could not overcome his
soul, could at least twist his neck in a moment--and then think what courage there must have
been in a man who could deliberately sleep in such a presence!

During his retirement he translated the Bible. The confusion at last became so desperate that
he could no longer be spared; and, believing that he was certain to be destroyed, he left Wartburg
and returned to Wittenberg. Death was always before him as supremely imminent. He used to say
that it would be a great disgrace to the Pope if he died in his bed. He was wanted once at
Leipsic. His friends said if he went there Duke George would kill him.

'Duke George!' he said; 'I would go to Leipsic if it rained Duke Georges for nine days!'

No such cataclysm of Duke Georges happily took place. The single one there was would have gladly
been mischievous if he could; but Luther outlived him--lived for twenty-four years after this,
in continued toil, re-shaping the German Church, and giving form to its new doctrine.

Sacerdotalism, properly so called, was utterly abolished. The corruptions of the Church had
all grown out of one root--the notion that the Christian priesthood possesses mystical power,
conferred through episcopal ordination.

Religion, as Luther conceived it, did not consist in certain things done to and for a man by
a so-called priest. It was the devotion of each individual soul to the service of God. Masses
were nothing, and absolution was nothing; and a clergyman differed only from a layman in being
set apart for the especial duties of teaching and preaching.

I am not concerned to defend Luther's view in this matter. It is a matter of fact only, that
in getting rid of episcopal ordination, he dried up the fountain from which the mechanical
and idolatrous conceptions of religion had sprung; and, in consequence, the religious life
of Germany has expanded with the progress of knowledge, while priesthoods everywhere cling
to the formulas of the past, in which they live, and move, and have their being.

Enough of this.

The peculiar doctrine which has passed into Europe under Luther's name is known as Justification
by Faith. Bandied about as a watchword of party, it has by this time hardened into a formula,
and has become barren as the soil of a trodden footpath. As originally proclaimed by Luther,
it contained the deepest of moral truths. It expressed what was, and is, and must be, in one
language or another, to the end of time, the conviction of every generous-minded man.

The service of God, as Luther learnt it from the monks, was a thing of desert and reward. So
many good works done, so much to the right page in the great book; where the stock proved insufficient,
there was the reserve fund of the merits of the saints, which the Church dispensed for money
to those who needed.

'Merit!' Luther thought. 'What merit can there be in such a poor caitiff as man? The better
a man is--the more clearly he sees how little he is good for, the greater mockery it seems
to attribute to him the notion of having deserved reward.'

'Miserable creatures that we are!' he said; 'we earn our bread in sin. Till we are seven years
old, we do nothing but eat and drink and sleep and play; from seven to twenty-one we study
four hours a day, the rest of it we run about and amuse ourselves; then we work till fifty,
and then we grow again to be children. We sleep half our lives; we give God a tenth of our
time: and yet we think that with our good works we can merit heaven. What have I been doing
to-day? I have talked for two hours; I have been at meals three hours; I have been idle four
hours! Ah, enter not into judgment with thy servant, O Lord!'

A perpetual struggle. For ever to be falling, yet to rise again and stumble forward with eyes
turned to heaven--this was the best which would ever come of man. It was accepted in its imperfection
by the infinite grace of God, who pities mortal weakness, and accepts the intention for the
deed--who, when there is a sincere desire to serve Him, overlooks the shortcomings of infirmity.

Do you say such teaching leads to disregard of duty? All doctrines, when petrified into formulas,
lead to that. But, as Luther said, 'where real faith is, a good life follows, as light follows
the sun; faint and clouded, yet ever struggling to break through the mist which envelopes it,
and welcoming the roughest discipline which tends to clear and raise it.

'The barley,' he says, in a homely but effective image--'the barley which we brew, the flax
of which we weave our garments, must be bruised and torn ere they come to the use for which
they are grown. So must Christians suffer. The natural creature must be combed and threshed.
The old Adam must die, for the higher life to begin. If man is to rise to nobleness, he must
first be slain.'

In modern language, the poet Goethe tells us the same truth. 'The natural man,' he says, 'is
like the ore out of the iron mine. It is smelted in the furnace; it is forged into bars upon
the anvil. A new nature is at last forced upon it, and it is made steel.'

It was this doctrine--it was this truth rather (the word doctrine reminds one of quack medicines)--which,
quickening in Luther's mind, gave Europe its new life. It was the flame which, beginning with
a small spark, kindled the hearth-fires in every German household.

Luther's own life was a model of quiet simplicity. He remained poor. He might have had money
if he had wished; but he chose rather, amidst his enormous labour, to work at a turning-lathe
for his livelihood.

He was sociable, cheerful, fond of innocent amusements, and delighted to encourage them. His
table-talk, collected by his friends, makes one of the most brilliant books in the world. He
had no monkish theories about the necessity of abstinence; but he was temperate from habit
and principle. A salt herring and a hunch of bread was his ordinary meal; and he was once four
days without food of any sort, having emptied his larder among the poor.

All kinds of people thrust themselves on Luther for help. Flights of nuns from the dissolved
convents came to him to provide for them--naked, shivering creatures, with scarce a rag to
cover them. Eight florins were wanted once to provide clothes for some of them. 'Eight florins!'
he said; 'and where am I to get eight florins?' Great people had made him presents of plate:
it all went to market to be turned into clothes and food for the wretched.

Melancthon says that, unless provoked, he was usually very gentle and tolerant. He recognised,
and was almost alone in recognising, the necessity of granting liberty of conscience. No one
hated Popery more than he did, yet he said:--

'The Papists must bear with us, and we with them. If they will not follow us, we have no right
to force them. Wherever they can, they will hang, burn, behead, and strangle us. I shall be
persecuted as long as I live, and most likely killed. But it must come to this at last--every
man must be allowed to believe according to his conscience, and answer for his belief to his
Maker.'

Erasmus said of Luther that there were two natures in him: sometimes he wrote like an apostle--sometimes
like a raving ribald.

Doubtless, Luther could be impolite on occasions. When he was angry, invectives rushed from
him like boulder rocks down a mountain torrent in flood. We need not admire all that; in quiet
times it is hard to understand it.

Here, for instance, is a specimen. Our Henry the Eighth, who began life as a highly orthodox
sovereign, broke a lance with Luther for the Papacy.

Luther did not credit Henry with a composition which was probably his own after all. He thought
the king was put forward by some of the English bishops--'Thomists' he calls them, as men who
looked for the beginning and end of wisdom to the writings of Thomas Aquinas.

'Courage,' he exclaimed to them, 'swine that you are! burn me then, if you can and dare. Here
I am; do your worst upon me. Scatter my ashes to all the winds--spread them through all seas.
My spirit shall pursue you still. Living, I am the foe of the Papacy; and dead, I will be its
foe twice over. Hogs of Thomists! Luther shall be the bear in your way--the lion in your path.
Go where you will, Luther shall cross you. Luther shall leave you neither peace nor rest till
he has crushed in your brows of brass and dashed out your iron brains.'

Strong expressions; but the times were not gentle. The prelates whom he supposed himself to
be addressing were the men who filled our Smithfield with the reek of burning human flesh.

Men of Luther's stature are like the violent forces of Nature herself--terrible when roused,
and in repose, majestic and beautiful. Of vanity he had not a trace. 'Do not call yourselves
Lutherans,' he said; 'call yourselves Christians. Who and what is Luther? Has Luther been crucified
for the world?'

I mentioned his love of music. His songs and hymns were the expression of the very inmost heart
of the German people. 'Music' he called 'the grandest and sweetest gift of God to man.' 'Satan
hates music,' he said; 'he knows how it drives the evil spirit out of us.'

He was extremely interested in all natural things. Before the science of botany was dreamt
of, Luther had divined the principle of vegetable life. 'The principle of marriage runs through
all creation,' he said; 'and flowers as well as animals are male and female.'

A garden called out bursts of eloquence from him; beautiful sometimes as a finished piece of
poetry.

One April day as he was watching the swelling buds, he exclaimed:--

'Praise be to God the Creator, who out of a dead world makes all alive again. See those shoots
how they burgeon and swell. Image of the resurrection of the dead! Winter is death--summer
is the resurrection. Between them lie spring and autumn, as the period of uncertainty and change.
The proverb says--

    Trust not a day
    Ere birth of May.

Let us pray our Father in heaven to give us this day our daily bread.'

'We are in the dawn of a new era,' he said another time; 'we are beginning to think something
of the natural world which was ruined in Adam's fall. We are learning to see all round us the
greatness and glory of the Creator. We can see the Almighty hand--the infinite goodness--in
the humblest flower. We praise Him--we thank Him--we glorify Him--we recognise in creation
the power of His word. He spoke and it was there. The stone of the peach is hard; but the soft
kernel swells and bursts it when the time comes. An egg--what a thing is that! If an egg had
never been seen in Europe, and a traveller had brought one from Calcutta, how would all the
world have wondered!'

And again:--

'If a man could make a single rose, we should give him an empire; yet roses, and flowers no
less beautiful, are scattered in profusion over the world, and no one regards them.'

There are infinite other things which I should like to tell you about Luther, but time wears
on. I must confine what more I have to say to a single matter--for which more than any other
he has been blamed--I mean his marriage.

He himself, a monk and a priest, had taken a vow of celibacy. The person whom he married had
been a nun, and as such had taken a vow of celibacy also.

The marriage was unquestionably no affair of passion. Luther had come to middle age when it
was brought about, when temptations of that kind lose their power; and among the many accusations
which have been brought against his early life, no one has ventured to charge him with incontinence.
His taking a wife was a grave act deliberately performed; and it was either meant as a public
insult to established ecclesiastical usage, or else he considered that the circumstances of
the time required it of him.

Let us see what those circumstances were. The enforcement of celibacy on the clergy was, in
Luther's opinion, both iniquitous in itself, and productive of enormous immorality. The impurity
of the religious orders had been the jest of satirists for a hundred years. It had been the
distress and perplexity of pious and serious persons. Luther himself was impressed with profound
pity for the poor men, who were cut off from the natural companionship which nature had provided
for them--who were thus exposed to temptations which they ought not to have been called upon
to resist.

The dissolution of the religious houses had enormously complicated the problem. Germany was
covered with friendless and homeless men and women adrift upon the world. They came to Luther
to tell them what to do; and advice was of little service without example.

The world had grown accustomed to immorality in such persons. They might have lived together
in concubinage, and no one would have thought much about it. Their marriage was regarded with
a superstitious terror as a kind of incest.

Luther, on the other hand, regarded marriage as the natural and healthy state in which clergy
as well as laity were intended to live. Immorality was hateful to him as a degradation of a
sacrament--impious, loathsome, and dishonoured. Marriage was the condition in which humanity
was at once purest, best, and happiest.

For himself, he had become inured to a single life. He had borne the injustice of his lot,
when the burden had been really heavy. But time and custom had lightened the load; and had
there been nothing at issue but his own personal happiness, he would not have given further
occasion to the malice of his enemies.

But tens of thousands of poor creatures were looking to him to guide them--guide them by precept,
or guide them by example. He had satisfied himself that the vow of celibacy had been unlawfully
imposed both on him and them--that, as he would put it, it had been a snare devised by the
devil. He saw that all eyes were fixed on him--that it was no use to tell others that they
might marry, unless he himself led the way, and married first. And it was characteristic of
him that, having resolved to do the thing, he did it in the way most likely to show the world
his full thought upon the matter.

That this was his motive, there is no kind of doubt whatever.

'We may be able to live unmarried,' he said; 'but in these days we must protest in deed as
well as word, against the doctrine of celibacy. It is an invention of Satan. Before I took
my wife, I had made up my mind that I must marry some one: and had I been overtaken by illness,
I should have betrothed myself to some pious maiden.'

He asked nobody's advice. Had he let his intention be suspected, the moderate respectable people--the
people who thought like Erasmus--those who wished well to what was good, but wished also to
stand well with the world's opinion--such persons as these would have overwhelmed him with
remonstrances. 'When you marry,' he said to a friend in a similar situation, 'be quiet about
it, or mountains will rise between you and your wishes. If I had not been swift and secret,
I should have had the whole world in my way.'

Catherine Bora, the lady whom he chose for his wife, was a nun of good family, left homeless
and shelterless by the breaking-up of her convent. She was an ordinary, unimaginative body--plain
in person and plain in mind, in no sense whatever a heroine of romance--but a decent, sensible,
commonplace Haus Frau.

The age of romance was over with both of them; yet, for all that, never marriage brought a
plainer blessing with it. They began with respect, and ended with steady affection.

The happiest life on earth, Luther used to say, is with a pious, good wife; in peace and quiet,
contented with a little, and giving God thanks.

He spoke from his own experience. His Katie, as he called her, was not clever, and he had numerous
stories to tell of the beginning of their adventures together.

'The first year of married life is an odd business,' he says. 'At meals, where you used to
be alone, you are yourself and somebody else. When you wake in the morning, there are a pair
of tails close to you on the pillow. My Katie used to sit with me when I was at work. She thought
she ought not to be silent. She did not know what to say, so she would ask me.

'"Herr Doctor, is not the master of the ceremonies in Prussia the brother of the Margrave?"'

She was an odd woman.

'Doctor,' she said to him one day, 'how is it that under Popery we prayed so often and so earnestly,
and now our prayers are cold and seldom?'

Katie might have spoken for herself. Luther, to the last, spent hours of every day in prayer.
He advised her to read the Bible a little more. She said she had read enough of it, and knew
half of it by heart. 'Ah!' he said, 'here begins weariness of the word of God. One day new
lights will rise up, and the Scriptures will be despised and be flung away into the corner.'

His relations with his children were singularly beautiful. The recollection of his own boyhood
made him especially gentle with them, and their fancies and imaginations delighted him.

Children, to him, were images of unfallen nature. 'Children,' he said, 'imagine heaven a place
where rivers run with cream, and trees are hung with cakes and plums. Do not blame them. They
are but showing their simple, natural, unquestioning, all-believing faith.'

One day, after dinner, when the fruit was on the table, the children were watching it with
longing eyes. 'That is the way,' he said, 'in which we grown Christians ought to look for the
Judgment Day.'

His daughter Magdalen died when she was fourteen. He speaks of his loss with the unaffected
simplicity of natural grief, yet with the faith of a man who had not the slightest doubt into
whose hands his treasure was passing. Perfect nature and perfect piety. Neither one emotion
nor the other disguised or suppressed.

You will have gathered something, I hope, from these faint sketches, of what Luther was; you
will be able to see how far he deserves to be called by our modern new lights, a Philistine
or a heretic. We will now return to the subject with which we began, and resume, in a general
conclusion, the argument of these Lectures.

In part, but not wholly, it can be done in Luther's words.

One regrets that Luther did not know Erasmus better, or knowing him, should not have treated
him with more forbearance.

Erasmus spoke of him for the most part with kindness. He interceded for him, defended him,
and only with the utmost reluctance was driven into controversy with him.

Luther, on the other hand, saw in Erasmus a man who was false to his convictions; who played
with truth; who, in his cold, sarcastic scepticism, believed in nothing--scarcely even in God.
He was unaware of his own obligations to him, for Erasmus was not a person who would trumpet
out his own good deeds.

Thus Luther says:--

'All you who honour Christ, I pray you hate Erasmus. He is a scoffer and a mocker. He speaks
in riddles; and jests at Popery and Gospel, and Christ and God, with his uncertain speeches.
He might have served the Gospel if he would, but, like Judas, he has betrayed the Son of Man
with a kiss. He is not with us, and he is not with our foes; and I say with Joshua, Choose
whom ye will serve. He thinks we should trim to the times, and hang our cloaks to the wind.
He is himself his own first object; and as he lived, he died.

'I take Erasmus to be the worst enemy that Christ has had for a thousand years. Intellect does
not understand religion, and when it comes to the things of God, it laughs at them. He scoffs
like Lucian, and by-and-by he will say, Behold, how are these among the saints whose life we
counted for folly.

'I bid you, therefore, take heed of Erasmus. He treats theology as a fool's jest, and the Gospel
as a fable good for the ignorant to believe.'

Of Erasmus personally, much of this was unjust and untrue. Erasmus knew many things which it
would have been well for Luther to have known; and, as a man, he was better than his principles.

But if for the name of Erasmus we substitute the theory of human things which Erasmus represented,
between that creed and Luther there is, and must be, an eternal antagonism.

If to be true in heart and just in act are the first qualities necessary for the elevation
of humanity--if without these all else is worthless, intellectual culture cannot give what
intellectual culture does not require or imply. You cultivate the plant which has already life;
you will waste your labour in cultivating a stone. The moral life is the counterpart of the
natural, alike mysterious in its origin, and alike visible only in its effects.

Intellectual gifts are like gifts of strength, or wealth, or rank, or worldly power--splendid
instruments if nobly used--but requiring qualities to use them nobler and better than themselves.

The rich man may spend his wealth on vulgar luxury. The clever man may live for intellectual
enjoyment--refined enjoyment it may be--but enjoyment still, and still centering in self.

If the spirit of Erasmus had prevailed, it would have been with modern Europe as with the Roman
Empire in its decay. The educated would have been mere sceptics; the multitude would have been
sunk in superstition. In both alike all would have perished which deserves the name of manliness.

And this leads me to the last observation that I have to make to you. In the sciences, the
philosopher leads; the rest of us take on trust what he tells us. The spiritual progress of
mankind has followed the opposite course. Each forward step has been made first among the people,
and the last converts have been among the learned.

The explanation is not far to look for. In the sciences there is no temptation of self-interest
to mislead. In matters which affect life and conduct, the interests and prejudices of the cultivated
classes are enlisted on the side of the existing order of things, and their better trained
faculties and larger acquirements serve only to find them arguments for believing what they
wish to believe.

Simpler men have less to lose; they come more in contact with the realities of life, and they
learn wisdom in the experience of suffering.

Thus it was that when the learned and the wise turned away from Christianity, the fishermen
of the Galilean lake listened, and a new life began for mankind. A miner's son converted Germany
to the Reformation. The London artisans and the peasants of Buckinghamshire went to the stake
for doctrines which were accepted afterwards as a second revelation.

So it has been; so it will be to the end. When a great teacher comes again upon the earth,
he will find his first disciples where Christ found them and Luther found them. Had Luther
written for the learned, the words which changed the face of Europe would have slumbered in
impotence on the bookshelves.

In appealing to the German nation, you will agree, I think, with me, that he did well and not
ill; you will not sacrifice his great name to the disdain of a shallow philosophy, or to the
grimacing of a dead superstition, whose ghost is struggling out of its grave.

THE INFLUENCE OF THE REFORMATION ON THE SCOTTISH CHARACTER:

A LECTURE DELIVERED AT EDINBURGH, NOVEMBER 1865.

I have undertaken to speak this evening on the effects of the Reformation in Scotland, and
I consider myself a very bold person to have come here on any such undertaking. In the first
place, the subject is one with which it is presumptuous for a stranger to meddle. Great national
movements can only be understood properly by the people whose disposition they represent. We
say ourselves about our own history that only Englishmen can properly comprehend it. The late
Chevalier Bunsen once said to me of our own Reformation in England, that, for his part, he
could not conceive how we had managed to come by such a thing. We seemed to him to be an obdurate,
impenetrable, stupid people, hide-bound by tradition and precedent, and too self-satisfied
to be either willing or able to take in new ideas upon any theoretic subject whatever, especially
German ideas. That is to say, he could not get inside the English mind. He did not know that
some people go furthest and go fastest when they look one way and row the other. It is the
same with every considerable nation. They work out their own political and spiritual lives,
through tempers, humours, and passions peculiar to themselves; and the same disposition which
produces the result is required to interpret it afterwards. This is one reason why I should
feel diffident about what I have undertaken. Another is, that I do not conceal from myself
that the subject is an exceedingly delicate one. The blazing passions of those stormy sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries are no longer, happily, at their old temperature. The story of those
times can now be told or listened to with something like impartiality. Yet, if people no longer
hate each other for such matters, the traditions of the struggle survive in strong opinions
and sentiments, which it is easy to wound without intending it.

My own conviction with respect to all great social and religious convulsions is the extremely
commonplace one that much is to be said on both sides. I believe that nowhere and at no time
any such struggle can take place on a large scale unless each party is contending for something
which has a great deal of truth in it. Where the right is plain, honest, wise, and noble-minded
men are all on one side; and only rogues and fools are on the other. Where the wise and good
are divided, the truth is generally found to be divided also. But this is precisely what cannot
be admitted as long as the conflict continues. Men begin to fight about things when reason
and argument fail to convince them. They make up in passion what is wanting in logic. Each
side believes that all the right is theirs--that their enemies have all the bad qualities which
their language contains names for; and even now, on the subject on which I have to talk to-night,
one has but to take up any magazine, review, newspaper, or party organ of any kind which touches
on it, to see that opinion is still Whig or Tory, Cavalier or Roundhead, Protestant or Catholic,
as the case may be. The unfortunate person who is neither wholly one nor wholly the other is
in the position of Hamlet's 'baser nature,' 'between the incensed points of mighty opposites.'
He is the Laodicean, neither cold nor hot, whom decent people consider bad company. He pleases
no one, and hurts the sensitiveness of all.

Here, then, are good reasons why I should have either not come here at all, or else should
have chosen some other matter to talk about. In excuse for persisting, I can but say that the
subject is one about which I have been led by circumstances to read and think considerably;
and though, undoubtedly, each of us knows more about himself and his own affairs than anyone
else can possibly know, yet a stranger's eye will sometimes see things which escape those more
immediately interested; and I allow myself to hope that I may have something to say not altogether
undeserving your attention. I shall touch as little as possible on questions of opinion; and
if I tread by accident on any sensitive point, I must trust to your kindness to excuse my awkwardness.

Well, then, if we look back on Scotland as it stood in the first quarter of the sixteenth century,
we see a country in which the old feudal organisation continued, so far as it generally affected
the people, more vigorous than in any other part of civilised Europe. Elsewhere, the growth
of trade and of large towns had created a middle class, with an organisation of their own,
independent of the lords. In Scotland, the towns were still scanty and poor; such as they were,
they were for the most part under the control of the great nobleman who happened to live nearest
to them; and a people, as in any sense independent of lords, knights, abbots, or prelates,
under whose rule they were born, had as yet no existence. The tillers of the soil (and the
soil was very miserably tilled) lived under the shadow of the castle or the monastery. They
followed their lord's fortunes, fought his battles, believed in his politics, and supported
him loyally in his sins or his good deeds, as the case might be. There was much moral beauty
in the life of those times. The loyal attachment of man to man--of liege servant to liege lord--of
all forms under which human beings can live and work together, has most of grace and humanity
about it. It cannot go on without mutual confidence and affection--mutual benefits given and
received. The length of time which the system lasted proves that in the main there must have
been a fine fidelity in the people--truth, justice, generosity in their leaders. History brings
down many bad stories to us out of those times; just as in these islands nowadays you may find
bad instances of the abuses of rights of property. You may find stories--too many also--of
husbands ill-using their wives, and so on. Yet we do not therefore lay the blame on marriage,
or suppose that the institution of property on the whole does more harm than good. I do not
doubt that down in that feudal system somewhere lie the roots of some of the finest qualities
in the European peoples.

So much for the temporal side of the matter; and the spiritual was not very unlike it. As no
one lived independently, in our modern sense of the word, so no one thought independently.
The minds of men were looked after by a Church which, for a long time also, did, I suppose,
very largely fulfil the purpose for which it was intended. It kept alive and active the belief
that the world was created and governed by a just Being, who hated sins and crimes, and steadily
punished such things. It taught men that they had immortal souls, and that this little bit
of life was an entirely insignificant portion of their real existence. It taught these truths,
indeed, along with a great deal which we now consider to have been a mistake--a great many
theories of earthly things which have since passed away, and special opinions clothed in outward
forms and ritual observances which we here, most of us at least, do not think essential for
our soul's safety. But mistakes like these are hurtful only when persisted in in the face of
fuller truth, after truth has been discovered. Only a very foolish man would now uphold the
Ptolemaic astronomy. But the Ptolemaic astronomy, when first invented, was based on real if
incomplete observations, and formed a groundwork without which further progress in that science
would have been probably impossible. The theories and ceremonials of the Catholic Church suited
well with an age in which little was known and much was imagined: when superstition was active
and science was not yet born. When I am told here or anywhere that the Middle Ages were times
of mere spiritual darkness and priestly oppression, with the other usual formulas, I say, as
I said before, if the Catholic Church, for those many centuries that it reigned supreme over
all men's consciences, was no better than the thing which we see in the generation which immediately
preceded the Reformation, it could not have existed at all. You might as well argue that the
old fading tree could never have been green and young. Institutions do not live on lies. They
either live by the truth and usefulness which there is in them, or they do not live at all.

So things went on for several hundred years. There were scandals enough, and crimes enough,
and feuds, and murders, and civil wars. Systems, however good, cannot prevent evil. They can
but compress it within moderate and tolerable limits. I should conclude, however, that, measuring
by the average happiness of the masses of the people, the mediæval institutions were very well
suited for the inhabitants of these countries as they then were. Adam Smith and Bentham themselves
could hardly have mended them if they had tried.

But times change, and good things as well as bad grow old and have to die. The heart of the
matter which the Catholic Church had taught was the fear of God; but the language of it and
the formulas of it were made up of human ideas and notions about things which the mere increase
of human knowledge gradually made incredible. To trace the reason of this would lead us a long
way. It is intelligible enough, but it would take us into subjects better avoided here. It
is enough to say that, while the essence of religion remains the same, the mode in which it
is expressed changes and has changed--changes as living languages change and become dead, as
institutions change, as forms of government change, as opinions on all things in heaven and
earth change, as half the theories held at this time among ourselves will probably change--that
is, the outward and mortal parts of them. Thus the Catholic formulas, instead of living symbols,
become dead and powerless cabalistic signs. The religion lost its hold on the conscience and
the intellect, and the effect, singularly enough, appeared in the shepherds before it made
itself felt among the flocks. From the see of St. Peter to the far monasteries in the Hebrides
or the Isle of Arran, the laity were shocked and scandalised at the outrageous doings of high
cardinals, prelates, priests, and monks. It was clear enough that these great personages themselves
did not believe what they taught; so why should the people believe it? And serious men, to
whom the fear of God was a living reality, began to look into the matter for themselves. The
first steps everywhere were taken with extreme reluctance; and had the popes and cardinals
been wise, they would have taken the lead in the enquiry, cleared their teaching of its lumber,
and taken out a new lease of life both for it and for themselves. An infallible pope and an
infallible council might have done something in this way, if good sense had been among the
attributes of their omniscience. What they did do was something very different. It was as if,
when the new astronomy began to be taught, the professors of that science in all the universities
of Europe had met together and decided that Ptolemy's cycles and epicycles were eternal verities;
that the theory of the rotation of the earth was and must be a damnable heresy; and had invited
the civil authorities to help them in putting down by force all doctrines but their own. This,
or something very like it, was the position taken up in theology by the Council of Trent. The
bishops assembled there did not reason. They decided by vote that certain things were true,
and were to be believed; and the only arguments which they condescended to use were fire and
faggot, and so on. How it fared with them, and with this experiment of theirs, we all know
tolerably well.

The effect was very different in different countries. Here, in Scotland, the failure was most
marked and complete, but the way in which it came about was in many ways peculiar. In Germany,
Luther was supported by princes and nobles. In England, the Reformation rapidly mixed itself
up with politics and questions of rival jurisdiction. Both in England and Germany, the revolution,
wherever it established itself, was accepted early by the Crown or the Government, and by them
legally recognised. Here, it was far otherwise: the Protestantism of Scotland was the creation
of the commons, as in turn the commons may be said to have been created by Protestantism. There
were many young high-spirited men, belonging to the noblest families in the country, who were
among the earliest to rally round the Reforming preachers; but authority, both in Church and
State, set the other way. The congregations who gathered in the fields around Wishart and John
Knox were, for the most part, farmers, labourers, artisans, tradesmen, or the smaller gentry;
and thus, for the first time in Scotland, there was created an organisation of men detached
from the lords and from the Church--brave, noble, resolute, daring people, bound together by
a sacred cause, unrecognised by the leaders whom they had followed hitherto with undoubting
allegiance. That spirit which grew in time to be the ruling power of Scotland--that which formed
eventually its laws and its creed, and determined its after fortunes as a nation--had its first
germ in these half-outlawed wandering congregations. In this it was that the Reformation in
Scotland differed from the Reformation in any other part of Europe. Elsewhere it found a middle
class existing--created already by trade or by other causes. It raised and elevated them, but
it did not materially affect their political condition. In Scotland, the commons, as an organised
body, were simply created by religion. Before the Reformation they had no political existence;
and therefore it has been that the print of their origin has gone so deeply into their social
constitution. On them, and them only, the burden of the work of the Reformation was eventually
thrown; and when they triumphed at last, it was inevitable that both they and it should react
one upon the other.

How this came about I must endeavour to describe, although I can give but a brief sketch of
an exceedingly complicated matter. Everybody knows the part played by the aristocracy of Scotland
in the outward revolution, when the Reformation first became the law of the land. It would
seem at first sight as if it had been the work of the whole nation--as if it had been a thing
on which high and low were heartily united. Yet on the first glance below the surface you see
that the greater part of the noble lords concerned in that business cared nothing about the
Reformation at all; or, if they cared, they rather disliked it than otherwise. How, then, did
they come to act as they did? or, how came they to permit a change of such magnitude when they
had so little sympathy with it? I must make a slight circuit to look for the explanation.

The one essentially noble feature in the great families of Scotland was their patriotism. They
loved Scotland and Scotland's freedom with a passion proportioned to the difficulty with which
they had defended their liberties; and yet the wisest of them had long seen that, sooner or
later, union with England was inevitable; and the question was, how that union was to be brought
about--how they were to make sure that, when it came, they should take their place at England's
side as equals, and not as a dependency. It had been arranged that the little Mary Stuart should
marry our English Edward VI., and the difficulty was to be settled so. They would have been
contented, they said, if Scotland had had the 'lad' and England the 'lass.' As it stood, they
broke their bargain, and married the little queen away into France, to prevent the Protector
Somerset from getting hold of her. Then, however, appeared an opposite danger; the queen would
become a Frenchwoman; her French mother governed Scotland with French troops and French ministers;
the country would become a French province, and lose its freedom equally. Thus an English party
began again; and as England was then in the middle of her great anti-Church revolution, so
the Scottish nobles began to be anti-Church. It was not for doctrines: neither they nor their
brothers in England cared much about doctrines; but in both countries the Church was rich--much
richer than there seemed any occasion for it to be. Harry the Eighth had been sharing among
the laity the spoils of the English monasteries; the Scotch Lords saw in a similar process
the probability of a welcome addition to their own scanty incomes. Mary of Guise and the French
stood by the Church, and the Church stood by them; and so it came about that the great families--even
those who, like the Hamiltons, were most closely connected with France--were tempted over by
the bait to the other side. They did not want reformed doctrines, but they wanted the Church
lands; and so they came to patronise, or endure, the Reformers, because the Church hated them,
and because they weakened the Church; and thus for a time, and especially as long as Mary Stuart
was Queen of France, all classes in Scotland, high and low, seemed to fraternise in favour
of the revolution.

And it seemed as if the union of the realms could be effected at last, at the same juncture,
and in connexion with the same movement. Next in succession to the Scotch crown, after Mary
Stuart, was the house of Hamilton. Elizabeth, who had just come to the English throne, was
supposed to be in want of a husband. The heir of the Hamiltons was of her own age, and in years
past had been thought of for her by her father. What could be more fit than to make a match
between those two? Send a Scot south to be King of England, find or make some pretext to shake
off Mary Stuart, who had forsaken her native country, and so join the crowns, the 'lass' and
the 'lad' being now in the right relative position. Scotland would thus annex her old oppressor,
and give her a new dynasty.

I seem to be straying from the point; but these political schemes had so much to do with the
actions of the leading men at that time, that the story of the Reformation cannot be understood
without them. It was thus, and with these incongruous objects, that the combination was formed
which overturned the old Church of Scotland in 1559-60, confiscated its possessions, destroyed
its religious houses, and changed its creed. The French were driven away from Leith by Elizabeth's
troops; the Reformers took possession of the churches; and the Parliament of 1560 met with
a clear stage to determine for themselves the future fate of the country. Now, I think it certain
that, if the Scotch nobility, having once accepted the Reformation, had continued loyal to
it--especially if Elizabeth had met their wishes in the important point of the marriage--the
form of the Scotch Kirk would have been something extremely different from what it in fact
became. The people were perfectly well inclined to follow their natural leaders if the matters
on which their hearts were set had received tolerable consideration from them, and the democratic
form of the ecclesiastical constitution would have been inevitably modified. One of the conditions
of the proposed compact with England was the introduction of the English Liturgy and the English
Church constitution. This too, at the outset, and with fair dealing, would not have been found
impossible. But it soon became clear that the religious interests of Scotland were the very
last thing which would receive consideration from any of the high political personages concerned.
John Knox had dreamt of a constitution like that which he had seen working under Calvin at
Geneva--a constitution in which the clergy as ministers of God should rule all things--rule
politically at the council board, and rule in private at the fireside. It was soon made plain
to Knox that Scotland was not Geneva. 'Eh, mon,' said the younger Maitland to him, 'then we
may all bear the barrow now to build the House of the Lord.' Not exactly. The churches were
left to the ministers; the worldly good things and worldly power remained with the laity; and
as to religion, circumstances would decide what they would do about that. Again, I am not speaking
of all the great men of those times. Glencairn, Ruthven, young Argyll--above all, the Earl
of Moray--really did in some degree interest themselves in the Kirk. But what most of them
felt was perhaps rather broadly expressed by Maitland when he called religion 'a bogle of the
nursery.' That was the expression which a Scotch statesman of those days actually ventured
to use. Had Elizabeth been conformable, no doubt they would in some sense or other have remained
on the side of the Reformation. But here, too, there was a serious hitch. Elizabeth would not
marry Arran. Elizabeth would be no party to any of their intrigues. She detested Knox. She
detested Protestantism entirely, in all shapes in which Knox approved of it. She affronted
the nobles on one side, she affronted the people on another; and all idea of uniting the two
crowns after the fashion proposed by the Scotch Parliament she utterly and entirely repudiated.
She was right enough, perhaps, so far as this was concerned; but she left the ruling families
extremely perplexed as to the course which they would follow. They had allowed the country
to be revolutionised in the teeth of their own sovereign, and what to do next they did not
very well know.

It was at this crisis that circumstances came in to their help. Francis the Second died. Mary
Stuart was left a childless widow. Her connexion with the Crown of France was at an end, and
all danger on that side to the liberties of Scotland at an end also. The Arran scheme having
failed, she would be a second card as good as the first to play for the English Crown--as good
as he, or better, for she would have the English Catholics on her side. So, careless how it
would affect religion, and making no condition at all about that, the same men who a year before
were ready to whistle Mary Stuart down the wind, now invited her back to Scotland; the same
men who had been the loudest friends of Elizabeth now encouraged Mary Stuart to persist in
the pretension to the Crown of England, which had led to all the past trouble. While in France,
she had assumed the title of Queen of England. She had promised to abandon it, but, finding
her own people ready to support her in withdrawing her promise, she stood out, insisting that
at all events the English Parliament should declare her next in the succession; and it was
well known that, as soon as the succession was made sure in her favour, some rascal would be
found to put a knife or a bullet into Elizabeth. The object of the Scotch nobles was political,
national, patriotic. For religion it was no great matter either way; and as they had before
acted with the Protestants, so now they were ready to turn about, and openly or tacitly act
with the Catholics. Mary Stuart's friends in England and on the Continent were Catholics, and
therefore it would not do to offend them. First, she was allowed to have mass at Holyrood;
then there was a move for a broader toleration. That one mass, Knox said, was more terrible
to him than ten thousand armed men landed in the country--and he had perfectly good reason
for saying so. He thoroughly understood that it was the first step towards a counter-revolution
which in time would cover all Scotland and England, and carry them back to Popery. Yet he preached
to deaf ears. Even Murray was so bewitched with the notion of the English succession, that
for a year and a half he ceased to speak to Knox; and as it was with Murray, so it was far
more with all the rest--their zeal for religion was gone no one knew where. Of course Elizabeth
would not give way. She might as well, she said, herself prepare her shroud; and then conspiracies
came, and under-ground intrigues with the Romanist English noblemen. France and Spain were
to invade England, Scotland was to open its ports to their fleets, and its soil to their armies,
giving them a safe base from which to act, and a dry road over the Marches to London. And if
Scotland had remained unchanged from what it had been--had the direction of its fortunes remained
with the prince and with the nobles, sooner or later it would have come to this. But suddenly
it appeared that there was a new power in this country which no one suspected till it was felt.

The commons of Scotland had hitherto been the creatures of the nobles. They had neither will
nor opinion of their own. They thought and acted in the spirit of their immediate allegiance.
No one seems to have dreamt that there would be any difficulty in dealing with them if once
the great families agreed upon a common course. Yet it appeared, when the pressure came, that
religion, which was the play-thing of the nobles, was to the people a clear matter of life
and death. They might love their country: they might be proud of anything which would add lustre
to its crown; but if it was to bring back the Pope and Popery--if it threatened to bring them
back--if it looked that way--they would have nothing to do with it; nor would they allow it
to be done. Allegiance was well enough; but there was a higher allegiance suddenly discovered
which superseded all earthly considerations. I know nothing finer in Scottish history than
the way in which the commons of the Lowlands took their places by the side of Knox in the great
convulsions which followed. If all others forsook him, they at least would never forsake him
while tongue remained to speak and hand remained to strike. Broken they might have been, trampled
out as the Huguenots at last were trampled out in France, had Mary Stuart been less than the
most imprudent or the most unlucky of sovereigns. But Providence, or the folly of those with
whom they had to deal, fought for them. I need not follow the wild story of the crimes and
catastrophes in which Mary Stuart's short reign in Scotland closed. Neither is her own share,
be it great or small, or none at all, in those crimes of any moment to us here. It is enough
that, both before that strange business and after it, when at Holyrood or across the Border,
in Sheffield or Tutbury, her ever favourite dream was still the English throne. Her road towards
it was through a Catholic revolution and the murder of Elizabeth. It is enough that, both before
and after, the aristocracy of Scotland, even those among them who had seemed most zealous for
the Reformation, were eager to support her. John Knox alone, and the commons, whom Knox had
raised into a political power, remained true.

Much, indeed, is to be said for the Scotch nobles. In the first shock of the business at Kirk-o'-Field,
they forgot their politics in a sense of national disgrace. They sent the queen to Loch Leven.
They intended to bring her to trial, and, if she was proved guilty, to expose and perhaps punish
her. All parties for a time agreed in this--even the Hamiltons themselves; and had they been
left alone they would have done it. But they had a perverse neighbour in England, to whom crowned
heads were sacred. Elizabeth, it might have been thought, would have had no particular objection;
but Elizabeth had aims of her own which baffled calculation. Elizabeth, the representative
of revolution, yet detested revolutionists. The Reformers in Scotland, the Huguenots in France,
the insurgents in the United Provinces, were the only friends she had in Europe. For her own
safety she was obliged to encourage them; yet she hated them all, and would at any moment have
abandoned them all, if, in any other way, she could have secured herself. She might have conquered
her personal objection to Knox--she could not conquer her aversion to a Church which rose out
of revolt against authority, which was democratic in constitution and republican in politics.
When driven into alliance with the Scotch Protestants, she angrily and passionately disclaimed
any community of creed with them; and for subjects to sit in judgment on their prince was a
precedent which she would not tolerate. Thus she flung her mantle over Mary Stuart. She told
the Scotch Council here in Edinburgh that, if they hurt a hair of her head, she would harry
their country, and hang them all on the trees round the town, if she could find any trees there
for that purpose. She tempted the queen to England with her fair promises after the battle
of Langside, and then, to her astonishment, imprisoned her. Yet she still shielded her reputation,
still fostered her party in Scotland, still incessantly threatened and incessantly endeavoured
to restore her. She kept her safe, because, in her lucid intervals, her ministers showed her
the madness of acting otherwise. Yet for three years she kept her own people in a fever of
apprehension. She made a settled Government in Scotland impossible; till, distracted and perplexed,
the Scottish statesmen went back to their first schemes. They assured themselves that in one
way or other the Queen of Scots would sooner or later come again among them. They, and others
besides them, believed that Elizabeth was cutting her own throat, and that the best that they
could do was to recover their own queen's favour, and make the most of her and her titles;
and so they lent themselves again to the English Catholic conspiracies.

The Earl of Moray--the one supremely noble man then living in the country--was put out of the
way by an assassin. French and Spanish money poured in, and French and Spanish armies were
to be again invited over to Scotland. This is the form in which the drama unfolds itself in
the correspondence of the time. Maitland, the soul and spirit of it all, said, in scorn, that
'he would make the Queen of England sit upon her tail and whine like a whipped dog.' The only
powerful noblemen who remained on the Protestant side were Lennox, Morton, and Mar. Lord Lennox
was a poor creature, and was soon dispatched; Mar was old and weak; and Morton was an unprincipled
scoundrel, who used the Reformation only as a stalking-horse to cover the spoils which he had
clutched in the confusion, and was ready to desert the cause at any moment if the balance of
advantage shifted. Even the ministers of the Kirk were fooled and flattered over. Maitland
told Mary Stuart that he had gained them all except one.

John Knox alone defied both his threats and his persuasions. Good reason has Scotland to be
proud of Knox. He only, in this wild crisis, saved the Kirk which he had founded, and saved
with it Scottish and English freedom. But for Knox, and what he was able still to do, it is
almost certain that the Duke of Alva's army would have been landed on the eastern coast. The
conditions were drawn out and agreed upon for the reception, the support, and the stay of the
Spanish troops. Two-thirds of the English peerage had bound themselves to rise against Elizabeth,
and Alva waited only till Scotland itself was quiet. Only that quiet would not be. Instead
of quiet came three dreadful years of civil war. Scotland was split into factions, to which
the mother and son gave names. The queen's lords, as they were called, with unlimited money
from France and Flanders, held Edinburgh and Glasgow; all the border line was theirs, and all
the north and west. Elizabeth's Council, wiser than their mistress, barely squeezed out of
her reluctant parsimony enough to keep Mar and Morton from making terms with the rest; but
there her assistance ended. She would still say nothing, promise nothing, bind herself to nothing,
and, so far as she was concerned, the war would have been soon enough brought to a close. But
away at St. Andrews, John Knox, broken in body, and scarcely able to stagger up the pulpit
stairs, still thundered in the parish church; and his voice, it was said, was like ten thousand
trumpets braying in the ear of Scottish Protestantism. All the Lowlands answered to his call.
Our English Cromwell found in the man of religion a match for the man of honour. Before Cromwell,
all over the Lothians, and across from St. Andrews to Stirling and Glasgow--through farm, and
town, and village--the words of Knox had struck the inmost chords of the Scottish commons'
hearts. Passing over knight and noble, he had touched the farmer, the peasant, the petty tradesman,
and the artisan, and turned the men of clay into men of steel. The village preacher, when he
left his pulpit, doffed cap and cassock, and donned morion and steel-coat. The Lothian yeoman's
household became for the nonce a band of troopers, who would cross swords with the night riders
of Buccleuch. It was a terrible time, a time rather of anarchy than of defined war, for it
was without form or shape. Yet the horror of it was everywhere. Houses and villages were burned,
and women and children tossed on pike-point into the flames. Strings of poor men were dangled
day after day from the walls of Edinburgh Castle. A word any way from Elizabeth would have
ended it, but that word Elizabeth would never speak; and, maddened with suffering, the people
half believed that she was feeding the fire for her own bad purposes, when it was only that
she would not make up her mind to allow a crowned princess to be dethroned. No earthly influence
could have held men true in such a trial. The noble lords--the Earl of Morton and such-like--would
have made their own conditions, and gone with the rest; but the vital force of the Scotch nation,
showing itself where it was least looked for, would not have it so.

A very remarkable account of the state of the Scotch commons at this time is to be found in
a letter of an English emissary, who had been sent by Lord Burleigh to see how things were
going there. It was not merely a new creed that they had got; it was a new vital power. 'You
would be astonished to see how men are changed here,' this writer said. 'There is little of
that submission to those above them which there used to be. The poor think and act for themselves.
They are growing strong, confident, independent. The farms are better cultivated; the farmers
are growing rich. The merchants at Leith are thriving, and, notwithstanding the pirates, they
are increasing their ships and opening a brisk trade with France.'

All this while civil war was raging, and the flag of Queen Mary was still floating over Edinburgh
Castle. It surprised the English; still more it surprised the politicians. It was the one thing
which disconcerted, baffled, and finally ruined the schemes and the dreams of Maitland. When
he had gained the aristocracy, he thought that he had gained everybody, and, as it turned out,
he had all his work still to do. The Spaniards did not come. The prudent Alva would not risk
invasion till Scotland at least was assured. As time passed on, the English conspiracies were
discovered and broken up. The Duke of Norfolk lost his head; the Queen of Scots was found to
have been mixed up with the plots to murder Elizabeth; and Elizabeth at last took courage and
recognised James. Supplies of money ceased to come from abroad, and gradually the tide turned.
The Protestant cause once more grew towards the ascendant. The great families one by one came
round again; and, as the backward movement began, the Massacre of St. Bartholomew gave it a
fresh and tremendous impulse. Even the avowed Catholics--the Hamiltons, the Gordons, the Scotts,
the Kers, the Maxwells--quailed before the wail of rage and sorrow which at that great horror
rose over their country. The Queen's party dwindled away to a handful of desperate politicians,
who still clung to Edinburgh Castle. But Elizabeth's 'peace-makers,' as the big English cannon
were called, came round, at the Regent's request, from Berwick; David's tower, as Knox had
long ago foretold, 'ran down over the cliff like a sandy brae;' and the cause of Mary Stuart
in Scotland was extinguished for ever. Poor Grange, who deserved a better end, was hanged at
the Market Cross. Secretary Maitland, the cause of all the mischief--the cleverest man, as
far as intellect went, in all Britain--died (so later rumour said) by his own hand. A nobler
version of his end is probably a truer one: He had been long ill--so ill that when the Castle
cannon were fired, he had been carried into the cellars as unable to bear the sound. The breaking
down of his hopes finished him. 'The secretary,' wrote some one from the spot to Cecil, 'is
dead of grief, being unable to endure the great hatred which all this people bears towards
him.' It would be well if some competent man would write a life of Maitland, or at least edit
his papers. They contain by far the clearest account of the inward movements of the time; and
he himself is one of the most tragically interesting characters in the cycle of the Reformation
history.

With the fall of the Castle, then, but not till then, it became clear to all men that the Reformation
would hold its ground. It was the final trampling out of the fire which for five years had
threatened both England and Scotland with flames and ruin. For five years--as late certainly
as the massacre of St. Bartholomew--those who understood best the true state of things, felt
the keenest misgivings how the event would turn. That things ended as they did was due to the
spirit of the Scotch commons. There was a moment when, if they had given way, all would have
gone, perhaps even to Elizabeth's throne. They had passed for nothing; they had proved to be
everything; had proved--the ultimate test in human things--to be the power which could hit
the hardest blows, and they took rank accordingly. The creed began now in good earnest to make
its way into hall and castle; but it kept the form which it assumed in the first hours of its
danger and trial, and never after lost it. Had the aristocracy dealt sincerely with things
in the earlier stages of the business, again I say the democratic element in the Kirk might
have been softened or modified. But the Protestants had been trifled with by their own natural
leaders. Used and abused by Elizabeth, despised by the worldly intelligence and power of the
times--they triumphed after all, and, as a natural consequence, they set their own mark and
stamp upon the fruits of the victory.

The question now is, what has the Kirk so established done for Scotland? Has it justified its
own existence? Briefly, we might say, it has continued its first function as the guardian of
Scottish freedom. But that is a vague phrase, and there are special accusations against the
Kirk and its doctrines which imply that it has cared for other things than freedom. Narrow,
fanatical, dictatorial, intrusive, superstitious, a spiritual despotism, the old priesthood
over again with a new face--these and other such epithets and expressions we have heard often
enough applied to it at more than one stage of its history. Well, I suppose that neither the
Kirk nor anything else of man's making is altogether perfect. But let us look at the work which
lay before it when it had got over its first perils. Scotch patriotism succeeded at last in
the object it had so passionately set its heart upon. It sent a king at last of the Scotch
blood to England, and a new dynasty; and it never knew peace or quiet after. The Kirk had stood
between James Stuart and his kingcraft. He hated it as heartily as did his mother; and, when
he got to England, he found people there who told him it would be easy to destroy it, and he
found the strength of a fresh empire to back him in trying to do it. To have forced prelacy
upon Scotland would have been to destroy the life out of Scotland. Thrust upon them by force,
it would have been no more endurable than Popery. They would as soon, perhaps sooner, have
had what the Irish call the 'rale thing' back again. The political freedom of the country was
now wrapped up in the Kirk; and the Stuarts were perfectly well aware of that, and for that
very reason began their crusade against it.

And now, suppose the Kirk had been the broad, liberal, philosophical, intellectual thing which
some people think it ought to have been, how would it have fared in that crusade; how altogether
would it have encountered those surplices of Archbishop Laud or those dragoons of Claverhouse?
It is hard to lose one's life for a 'perhaps,' and philosophical belief at the bottom means
a 'perhaps' and nothing more. For more than half the seventeenth century, the battle had to
be fought out in Scotland, which in reality was the battle between liberty and despotism; and
where, except in an intense, burning conviction that they were maintaining God's cause against
the devil, could the poor Scotch people have found the strength for the unequal struggle which
was forced upon them? Toleration is a good thing in its place; but you cannot tolerate what
will not tolerate you, and is trying to cut your throat. Enlightenment you cannot have enough
of, but it must be true enlightenment, which sees a thing in all its bearings. In these matters
the vital questions are not always those which appear on the surface; and in the passion and
resolution of brave and noble men there is often an inarticulate intelligence deeper than what
can be expressed in words. Action sometimes will hit the mark, when the spoken word either
misses it or is but half the truth. On such subjects, and with common men, latitude of mind
means weakness of mind. There is but a certain quantity of spiritual force in any man. Spread
it over a broad surface, the stream is shallow and languid; narrow the channel, and it becomes
a driving force. Each may be well at its own time. The mill-race which drives the water-wheel
is dispersed in rivulets over the meadow at its foot. The Covenanters fought the fight and
won the victory, and then, and not till then, came the David Humes with their essays on miracles,
and the Adam Smiths with their political economies, and steam-engines, and railroads, and philosophical
institutions, and all the other blessed or unblessed fruits of liberty.

But we may go further. Institutions exist for men, not men for institutions; and the ultimate
test of any system of politics, or body of opinions, or form of belief, is the effect produced
on the conduct and condition of the people who live and die under them. Now, I am not here
to speak of Scotland of the present day. That, happily, is no business of mine. We have to
do here with Scotland before the march of intellect; with Scotland of the last two centuries;
with the three or four hundred thousand families, who for half-a-score of generations believed
simply and firmly in the principles of the Reformation, and walked in the ways of it.

Looked at broadly, one would say they had been an eminently pious people. It is part of the
complaint of modern philosophers about them, that religion, or superstition, or whatever they
please to call it, had too much to do with their daily lives. So far as one can look into that
commonplace round of things which historians never tell us about, there have rarely been seen
in this world a set of people who have thought more about right and wrong, and the judgment
about them of the upper powers. Long-headed, thrifty industry,--a sound hatred of waste, imprudence,
idleness, extravagance,--the feet planted firmly upon the earth,--a conscientious sense that
the worldly virtues are, nevertheless, very necessary virtues, that without these, honesty
for one thing is not possible, and that without honesty no other excellence, religious or moral,
is worth anything at all--this is the stuff of which Scotch life was made, and very good stuff
it is. It has been called gloomy, austere, harsh, and such other epithets. A gifted modern
writer has favoured us lately with long strings of extracts from the sermons of Scotch divines
of the last century, taking hard views of human shortcomings and their probable consequences,
and passing hard censures upon the world and its amusements. Well, no doubt amusement is a
very good thing; but I should rather infer from the vehemence and frequency of these denunciations
that the people had not been in the habit of denying themselves too immoderately; and, after
all, it is no very hard charge against those teachers that they thought more of duty than of
pleasure. Sermons always exaggerate the theoretic side of things; and the most austere preacher,
when he is out of the pulpit, and you meet him at the dinner-table, becomes singularly like
other people. We may take courage, I think, we may believe safely that in those minister-ridden
days, men were not altogether so miserable; we may hope that no large body of human beings
have for any length of time been too dangerously afraid of enjoyment. Among other good qualities,
the Scots have been distinguished for humour--not for venomous wit, but for kindly, genial
humour, which half loves what it laughs at--and this alone shows clearly enough that those
to whom it belongs have not looked too exclusively on the gloomy side of the world. I should
rather say that the Scots had been an unusually happy people. Intelligent industry, the honest
doing of daily work, with a sense that it must be done well, under penalties; the necessaries
of life moderately provided for; and a sensible content with the situation of life in which
men are born--this through the week, and at the end of it the 'Cottar's Saturday Night'--the
homely family, gathered reverently and peacefully together, and irradiated with a sacred presence.--Happiness!
such happiness as we human creatures are likely to know upon this world, will be found there,
if anywhere.

The author of the 'History of Civilisation' makes a naïve remark in connexion with this subject.
Speaking of the other country, which he censures equally with Scotland for its slavery to superstition,
he says of the Spaniards that they are a well-natured, truthful, industrious, temperate, pious
people, innocent in their habits, affectionate in their families, full of humour, vivacity,
and shrewdness, yet that all this 'has availed them nothing'--'has availed them nothing,' that
is his expression--because they are loyal, because they are credulous, because they are contented,
because they have not apprehended the first commandment of the new covenant: 'Thou shalt get
on and make money, and better thy condition in life;' because, therefore, they have added nothing
to the scientific knowledge, the wealth, and the progress of mankind. Without these, it seems,
the old-fashioned virtues avail nothing. They avail a great deal to human happiness. Applied
science, and steam, and railroads, and machinery, enable an ever-increasing number of people
to live upon the earth; but the happiness of those people remains, so far as I know, dependent
very much on the old conditions. I should be glad to believe that the new views of things will
produce effects upon the character in the long run half so beautiful.

There is much more to say on this subject, were there time to say it, but I will not trespass
too far upon your patience; and I would gladly have ended here, had not the mention of Spain
suggested one other topic, which I should not leave unnoticed. The Spain of Cervantes and Don
Quixote was the Spain of the Inquisition. The Scotland of Knox and Melville was the Scotland
of the witch trials and witch burnings. The belief in witches was common to all the world.
The prosecution and punishment of the poor creatures was more conspicuous in Scotland when
the Kirk was most powerful; in England and New England, when Puritan principles were also dominant
there. It is easy to understand the reasons. Evil of all kinds was supposed to be the work
of a personal devil; and in the general horror of evil, this particular form of it, in which
the devil was thought especially active, excited the most passionate detestation. Thus, even
the best men lent themselves unconsciously to the most detestable cruelty. Knox himself is
not free from reproach. A poor woman was burned at St. Andrews when he was living there, and
when a word from him would have saved her. It remains a lesson to all time, that goodness,
though the indispensable adjunct to knowledge, is no substitute for it; that when conscience
undertakes to dictate beyond its province, the result is only the more monstrous.

It is well that we should look this matter in the face; and as particular stories leave more
impression than general statements, I will mention one, perfectly well authenticated, which
I take from the official report of the proceedings:--Towards the end of 1593 there was trouble
in the family of the Earl of Orkney. His brother laid a plot to murder him, and was said to
have sought the help of a 'notorious witch' called Alison Balfour. When Alison Balfour's life
was looked into, no evidence could be found connecting her either with the particular offence
or with witchcraft in general; but it was enough in these matters to be accused. She swore
she was innocent; but her guilt was only held to be aggravated by perjury. She was tortured
again and again. Her legs were put in the caschilaws--an iron frame which was gradually heated
till it burned into the flesh--but no confession could be wrung from her. The caschilaws failed
utterly, and something else had to be tried. She had a husband, a son, and a daughter, a child
seven years old. As her own sufferings did not work upon her, she might be touched, perhaps,
by the sufferings of those who were dear to her. They were brought into court, and placed at
her side; and the husband first was placed in the 'lang irons'--some accursed instrument; I
know not what. Still the devil did not yield. She bore this; and her son was next operated
on. The boy's legs were set in 'the boot,'--the iron boot you may have heard of. The wedges
were driven in, which, when forced home, crushed the very bone and marrow. Fifty-seven mallet
strokes were delivered upon the wedges. Yet this, too, failed. There was no confession yet.
So, last of all, the little daughter was taken. There was a machine called the piniwinkies--a
kind of thumbscrew, which brought blood from under the finger nails, with a pain successfully
terrible. These things were applied to the poor child's hands, and the mother's constancy broke
down, and she said she would admit anything they wished. She confessed her witchcraft--so tried,
she would have confessed to the seven deadly sins--and then she was burned, recalling her confession,
and with her last breath protesting her innocence.

It is due to the intelligence of the time to admit that after this her guilt was doubted, and
such vicarious means of extorting confession do not seem to have been tried again. Yet the
men who inflicted these tortures would have borne them all themselves sooner than have done
any act which they consciously knew to be wrong. They did not know that the instincts of humanity
were more sacred than the logic of theology, and in fighting against the devil they were themselves
doing the devil's work. We should not attempt to apologise for these things, still less to
forget them. No martyrs ever suffered to instil into mankind a more wholesome lesson--more
wholesome, or one more hard to learn. The more conscientious men are, the more difficult it
is for them to understand that in their most cherished convictions, when they pass beyond the
limits where the wise and good of all sorts agree, they may be the victims of mere delusion.
Yet, after all, and happily, such cases were but few, and affected but lightly the general
condition of the people.

The student running over the records of other times finds certain salient things standing out
in frightful prominence. He concludes that the substance of those times was made up of the
matters most dwelt on by the annalist. He forgets that the things most noticed are not those
of every-day experience, but the abnormal, the extraordinary, the monstrous. The exceptions
are noted down, the common and usual is passed over in silence. The philosophic historian,
studying hereafter this present age, in which we are ourselves living, may say that it was
a time of unexampled prosperity, luxury, and wealth; but catching at certain horrible murders
which have lately disgraced our civilisation, may call us a nation of assassins. It is to invert
the pyramid and stand it on its point. The same system of belief which produced the tragedy
which I have described, in its proper province as the guide of ordinary life, has been the
immediate cause of all that is best and greatest in Scottish character.

I shall not argue with the extravagant hypothesis of my friend. In the opinion even of Goethe,
who was not troubled with credulity, the human race can never attain to anything higher than
Christianity--if we mean by Christianity the religion which was revealed to the world in the
teaching and the life of its Founder. But even the more limited reprobation by our own Reformers
of the creed of mediæval Europe is not more just or philosophical. It was the very essence
of the original creed.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] From the Leader, 1851.

FOOTNOTES:

[D] Fraser's Magazine, 1863.

CRITICISM AND THE GOSPEL HISTORY.[E]

The spirit of criticism is not the spirit of religion. The spirit of criticism is a questioning
spirit; the spirit of religion is a spirit of faith, of humility and submission. Other qualities
may go to the formation of a religious character in the highest and grandest sense of the word;
but the virtues which religious teachers most generally approve, which make up the ideal of
a Catholic saint, which the Catholic and all other churches endeavour most to cultivate in
their children, are those of passive and loyal obedience, a devotion without reserve or qualification;
or to use the technical word, 'a spirit of teachableness.' A religious education is most successful
when it has formed a mind to which difficulties are welcome as an opportunity for the triumph
of faith--which regards doubts as temptations to be resisted like the suggestions of sensuality,
and which alike in action or opinion follows the path prescribed to it with affectionate and
unhesitating confidence.

To men or women of the tender and sensitive piety which is produced by such a training, an
enquiry into the grounds of its faith appears shocking and profane. To demand an explanation
of ambiguities or mysteries of which they have been accustomed to think only upon their knees,
is as it were to challenge the Almighty to explain his ways to his creatures, and to refuse
obedience unless human presumption has been first gratified.

Undoubtedly, not in religion only, but in any branch of human knowledge, teachableness is the
condition of growth. We augur ill for the future of the youth who sets his own judgment against
that of his instructors, and refuses to believe what cannot be at once made plain to him. Yet
again, the wise instructor will not lightly discourage questions which are prompted by an intelligent
desire of knowledge. That an unenquiring submission produces characters of great and varied
beauty; that it has inspired the most splendid acts of endurance which have given a lustre
to humanity, no one will venture to deny. A genial faith is one of that group of qualities
which commend themselves most to the young, the generous, and the enthusiastic--to those whose
native and original nobleness has suffered least from contact with the world--which belong
rather to the imagination than the reason, and stand related to truth through the emotions
rather than through the sober calculations of probability. It is akin to loyalty, to enthusiasm,
to hero-worship, to that deep affection to a person or a cause which can see no fault in what
it loves.

'Belief,' says Mr. Sewell, 'is a virtue; doubt is a sin.' Iago is nothing if not critical;
and the sceptical spirit--der Geist der stets verneint--which is satisfied with nothing, which
sees in everything good the seed of evil, and the weak spot in every great cause or nature,
has been made the special characteristic--we all feel with justice--of the devil.

And yet this devotedness or devotion, this reverence for authority, is but one element of excellence.
To reverence is good; but on the one condition that the object of it be a thing which deserves
reverence; and the necessary complement, the security that we are not bestowing our best affections
where they should not be given, must be looked for in some quality which, if less attractive,
is no less essential for our true welfare. To prove all things--to try the spirits whether
they be of God--is a duty laid upon us by the highest authority; and what is called progress
in human things--religious as well as material--has been due uniformly to a dissatisfaction
with them as they are. Every advance in science, every improvement in the command of the mechanical
forces of nature, every step in political or social freedom, has risen in the first instance
from an act of scepticism, from an uncertainty whether the formulas, or the opinions, or the
government, or the received practical theories were absolutely perfect; or whether beyond the
circle of received truths there might not lie something broader, deeper, truer, and thus better
deserving the acceptance of mankind.

Submissiveness, humility, obedience, produce if uncorrected, in politics a nation of slaves,
whose baseness becomes an incentive to tyranny; in religion, they produce the consecration
of falsehood, poperies, immaculate conceptions, winking images, and the confessional. The spirit
of enquiry if left to itself becomes in like manner a disease of uncertainty, and terminates
in universal scepticism. It seems as if in a healthy order of things, to the willingness to
believe there should be chained as its inseparable companion a jealousy of deception; and there
is no lesson more important for serious persons to impress upon themselves than that each of
these temperaments must learn to tolerate the other; faith accepting from reason the sanction
of its service, and reason receiving in return the warm pulsations of life. The two principles
exist together in the highest natures; and the man who in the best sense of the word is devout,
is also the most cautious to whom or to what he pays his devotion. Among the multitude, the
units of which are each inadequate and incomplete, the elements are disproportionately mixed;
some men are humble and diffident, some are sceptical and enquiring; yet both are filling a
place in the great intellectual economy; both contribute to make up the sum and proportion
of qualities which are required to hold the balance even; and neither party is entitled to
say to the other, 'Stand by; I am holier than thou.'

And as it is with individuals, so is it also with whole periods and cycles. For centuries together
the believing spirit held undisputed sovereignty; and these were what are called 'ages of faith;'
ages, that is, in which the highest business of the intellect was to pray rather than to investigate;
when for every unusual phenomenon a supernatural cause was instinctively assumed; when wonders
were credible in proportion to their magnitude; and theologians, with easy command of belief,
added miracle to miracle and piled dogma upon dogma. Then the tide changed; a fresh era opened,
which in the eyes of those who considered the old system the only right one, was the letting
loose of the impersonated spirit of evil; when profane eyes were looking their idols in the
face; when men were saying to the miraculous images, 'You are but stone and wood,' and to the
piece of bread, 'You are but dust as I am dust;' and then the huge mediæval fabric crumbled
down in ruin.

All forms of thought, all objects of devotion, are made thus liable to perpetual revision,
if only that belief shall not petrify into habit, but remain the reasonable conviction of a
reasonable soul. The change of times and the change of conditions change also the appearance
of things which in themselves are the same which they always were. Facts supposed once to be
as fixed as the stars melt into fiction. A closer acquaintance with the phenomena of experience
has revealed to us the action of forces before undreamt of working throughout nature with unerring
uniformity; and to the mediæval stories of magic, witchcraft, or the miracles of saints, we
are thus placed in a new relation. The direct evidence on which such stories were received
may remain unimpaired, but it no longer produces the same conviction. Even in ordinary human
things where the evidence is lost--as in some of our own State trials, and where we know only
that it was such as brought conviction to judges, juries, and parliaments--historians do not
hesitate to call their verdicts into question, thinking it more likely that whole masses of
men should have been led away by passion or fraud or cowardice than that this or that particular
crime should have been committed. That we often go beyond our office and exaggerate the value
of our new criteria of truth may be possible enough; but it is no less certain that this is
the tendency of modern thought. Our own age, like every age which has gone before it, judges
the value of testimony, not by itself merely, but by the degree to which it corresponds with
our own sense of the laws of probability; and we consider events probable or improbable by
the habit of mind which is the result of our general knowledge and culture. To the Catholic
of the middle ages a miracle was more likely than not; and when he was told that a miracle
had been worked, he believed it as he would have believed had he been told that a shower of
rain had fallen, or that the night frost had killed the buds upon his fruit trees. If his cattle
died, he found the cause in the malice of Satan or the evil eye of a witch; and if two or more
witnesses could have been found to swear that they had heard an old woman curse him, she would
have been burnt for a sorceress. The man of science, on the other hand, knows nothing of witches
and sorcerers; when he can find a natural cause he refuses to entertain the possibility of
the intervention of a cause beyond nature; and thus that very element of marvel which to the
more superstitious temperament was an evidence of truth, becomes to the better informed a cause
of suspicion.

So it has been that throughout history, as between individuals among ourselves, we trace two
habits of thought, one of which has given us churches, creeds, and the knowledge of God; the
other has given us freedom and science, has pruned the luxuriance of imaginative reverence,
and reminds piety of what it is too ready to forget--that God is truth. Yet, essential as they
are to one another, each keeps too absolutely to the circle of its own convictions, and, but
half able to recognise the merit of principles which are alien to its own, regards the other
as its natural enemy.

To the warm and enthusiastic pietist the enquirer appears as a hater of God, an inveterate
blasphemer of holy things, soiling with rude and insolent hands what ought only to be humbly
adored. The saint when he has the power calls the sword to his aid, and in his zeal for what
he calls the honour of God, makes war upon such people with steel and fire. The innovator,
on the other hand, knowing that he is not that evil creature which his rival represents him
as being, knowing that he too desires only truth--first suffers, suffers in rough times at
stake and scaffold, suffers in our own later days in good name, in reputation, in worldly fortune;
and as the whirligig of time brings round his turn of triumph, takes, in French revolutions
and such other fits of madness, his own period of wild revenge. The service of truth is made
to appear as one thing, the service of God as another; and in that fatal separation religion
dishonours itself with unavailing enmity to what nevertheless it is compelled at last to accept
in humiliation; and science, welcoming the character which its adversary flings upon it, turns
away with answering hostility from doctrines without which its own highest achievements are
but pyramids of ashes.

Is this antagonism a law of humanity? As mankind move upwards through the ascending circles
of progress, is it for ever to be with them as with the globe which they inhabit--of which
one hemisphere is perpetually dark? Have the lessons of the Reformation been thrown away? Is
knowledge always to advance under the ban of religion? Is faith never to cease to dread investigation?
Is science chiefly to value each new discovery as a victory gained over its rival? Is the spiritual
world to revolve eternally upon an axis of which the two poles are materialism and superstition,
to be buried in their alternate occultations in periods of utter darkness, or lifted into an
icy light where there is neither life nor warmth?

How it may be in the remote future it is idle to guess; for the present the signs are not hopeful.
We are arrived visibly at one of those recurring times when the accounts are called in for
audit; when the title-deeds are to be looked through, and established opinions again tested.
It is a process which has been repeated more than once in the world's history; the last occasion
and greatest being the Reformation of the sixteenth century; and the experience of that matter
might have satisfied the most timid that truth has nothing to fear; and that religion emerges
out of such trials stronger and brighter than before. Yet Churchmen have not profited by the
experience; the pulpits and the religious press ring again with the old shrieks of sacrilege;
the machinery of the law courts is set creaking on its rusty hinges, and denunciation and anathema
in the old style take the place of reasoning. It will not answer; and the worst danger to what
is really true is the want of wisdom in its defenders. The language which we sometimes hear
about these things seems to imply that while Christianity is indisputably true, it cannot stand
nevertheless without bolt and shackle, as if the Author of our faith had left the evidence
so weak that an honest investigation would fail to find it.

Inevitably, the altered relation in which modern culture places the minds of all of us towards
the supernatural, will compel a reconsideration of the grounds on which the acceptance of miracles
is required. If the English learned clergy had faith as a grain of mustard seed, they would
be the first to take possession of the field; they would look the difficulty in the face fearlessly
and frankly, and we should not be tossing as we are now in an ocean of uncertainty, ignorant
whether, if things seem obscure to us, the fault is with our intellects or our hearts.

It might have been that Providence, anticipating the effect produced on dead testimony by time
and change, had raised religion into a higher sphere, and had appointed on earth a living and
visible authority which could not err--guided by the Holy Spirit into truth, and divinely sustained
in the possession of it. Such a body the Roman Catholic Church conceives itself to be; but
in breaking away from its communion, Protestant Christians have declared their conviction that
neither the Church of Rome, nor they themselves, nor any other body of men on earth, are exempt
from a liability to error. It is no longer competent for the Anglican communion to say that
a doctrine or a fact is true because it forms a part of their teaching, because it has come
down to them from antiquity, and because to deny it is sin. Transubstantiation came down to
the fathers of the Reformation from antiquity; it was received and insisted upon by the Catholic
Church of Christendom; yet nevertheless it was flung out from among us as a lie and an offence.
The theory of the Divine authority of the Church was abandoned in the act of Protestantism
three centuries ago; it was the central principle of that great revolt that the establishment
of particular opinions was no guarantee for their truth; and it becomes thus our duty as well
as our right to examine periodically our intellectual defences, to abandon positions which
the alteration of time makes untenable, and to admit and invite into the service of the sanctuary
the fullest light of advancing knowledge. Of all positions the most fatally suicidal for Protestants
to occupy is the assumption, which it is competent for Roman Catholics to hold, but not for
them, that beliefs once sanctioned by the Church are sacred, and that to impugn them is not
error but crime.

With a hope, then, that this reproach may be taken away from us; that, in this most wealthily-endowed
Church of England, where so many of the most gifted and most accomplished men among us are
maintained in well-paid leisure to attend to such things, we may not be left any longer to
grope our way in the dark, the present writer puts forward some few perplexities of which it
would be well if English divinity contained a clearer solution than is found there. The laity,
occupied in other matters, regard the clergy as the trustees of their spiritual interests;
but inasmuch as the clergy tell them that the safety of their souls depends on the correctness
of their opinions, they dare not close their eyes to the questions which are being asked in
louder and even louder tones; and they have a right to demand that they shall not be left to
their own unaided efforts to answer such questions. We go to our appointed teachers as to our
physicians; we say to them, 'We feel pain here, and here, and here: we do not see our way,
and we require you to help us.'

Most of these perplexities are not new: they were felt with the first beginnings of critical
investigation; but the fact that they have been so many years before the world without being
satisfactorily encountered makes the situation only the more serious. It is the more strange
that as time passes on, and divine after divine is raised to honour and office for his theological
services, we should find only when we turn to their writings that loud promises end in no performance;
that the chief object which they set before themselves is to avoid difficult ground; and that
the points on which we most cry out for satisfaction are passed over in silence, or are disposed
of with ineffectual commonplaces.

With a temperament constitutionally religious, and with an instinctive sense of the futility
of theological controversies, the English people have long kept the enemy at bay by passive
repugnance. To the well-conditioned English layman the religion in which he has been educated
is part of the law of the land; the truth of it is assumed in the first principles of his personal
and social existence; and attacks on the credibility of his sacred books he has regarded with
the same impatience and disdain with which he treats speculations on the rights of property
or the common maxims of right and wrong. Thus, while the inspiration of the Bible has been
a subject of discussion for a century in Germany, Holland, and France; while even in the desolate
villages in the heart of Spain the priests find it necessary to placard the church walls with
cautions against rationalism, England hitherto has escaped the trial; and it is only within
a very few years that the note of speculation has compelled our deaf ears to listen. That it
has come at last is less a matter of surprise than that it should have been so long delayed;
and though slow to move, it is likely that so serious a people will not now rest till they
have settled the matter for themselves in some practical way. We are assured that if the truth
be, as we are told, of vital moment--vital to all alike, wise and foolish, educated and uneducated--the
road to it cannot lie through any very profound enquiries. We refuse to believe that every
labourer or mechanic must balance arduous historical probabilities and come to a just conclusion,
under pain of damnation. We are satisfied that these poor people are not placed in so cruel
a dilemma. Either these abstruse historical questions are open questions, and we are not obliged
under those penalties to hold a definite opinion upon them, or else there must be some general
principle accessible and easily intelligible, by which the details can be summarily disposed of.

We shall not be much mistaken, perhaps, if we say that the view of most educated English laymen
at present is something of this kind. They are aware that many questions may be asked, difficult
or impossible to answer satisfactorily, about the creation of the world, the flood, and generally
on the historical portion of the Old Testament; but they suppose that if the authority of the
Gospel history can be well ascertained, the rest may and must be taken for granted. If it be
true that of the miraculous birth, life, death, and resurrection of our Lord, we have the evidence
of two evangelists who were eye-witnesses of the facts which they relate, and of two others
who wrote under the direction of, or upon the authority of, eye-witnesses, we can afford to
dispense with merely curious enquiries. The subordinate parts of a divine economy which culminated
in so stupendous a mystery may well be as marvellous as itself; and it may be assumed, we think,
with no great want of charity, that those who doubt the truth of the Old Testament extend their
incredulity to the New; that the point of their disbelief, towards which they are trenching
their way through the weak places in the Pentateuch, is the Gospel narrative itself.[F] Whatever
difficulty there may be in proving the ancient Hebrew books to be the work of the writers whose
names they bear, no one would have cared to challenge their genuineness who was thoroughly
convinced of the resurrection of our Lord. And the real object of these speculations lies open
before us in the now notorious work of M. Renan, which is shooting through Europe with a rapidity
which recalls the era of Luther.

To the question of the authenticity of the Gospels, therefore, the common sense of Englishmen
has instinctively turned. If, as English commentators confidently tell us, the Gospel of St.
Matthew, such as we now possess it, is undoubtedly the work of the publican who followed our
Lord from the receipt of custom, and remained with Him to be a witness of His ascension; if
St. John's Gospel was written by the beloved disciple who lay on Jesus' breast at supper; if
the other two were indeed the composition of the companions of St. Peter and St. Paul; if in
these four Gospels we have independent accounts of our Lord's life and passion, mutually confirming
each other, and if it can be proved that they existed and were received as authentic in the
first century of the Christian Church, a stronger man than M. Renan will fail to shake the
hold of Christianity in England.

We put the question hypothetically, not as meaning to suggest the fact as uncertain, but being--as
the matter is of infinite moment--being, as it were, the hinge on which our faith depends,
we are forced beyond our office to trespass on ground which we leave usually to professional
theologians, and to tell them plainly that there are difficulties which it is their business
to clear up, but to which, with worse than imprudence, they close their own eyes, and deliberately
endeavour to keep them from ours. Some of these it is the object of this paper to point out,
with an earnest hope that Dean Alford, or Dr. Ellicott, or some other competent clergyman,
may earn our gratitude by telling us what to think about them. Setting aside their duty to
us, they will find frank dealing in the long run their wisest policy. The conservative theologians
of England have carried silence to the point of indiscretion.

Looking, then, to the three first Gospels, usually called the Synoptical, we are encountered
immediately with a remarkable common element which runs through them all--a resemblance too
peculiar to be the result of accident, and impossible to reconcile with the theory that the
writers were independent of each other. It is not that general similarity which we should expect
in different accounts of the same scenes and events, but amidst many differences, a broad vein
of circumstantial identity extending both to substance and expression.

And the identity is of several kinds.

I. Although the three evangelists relate each of them some things peculiar to themselves, and
although between them there are some striking divergencies--as, for instance, between the account
of our Lord's miraculous birth in St. Matthew and St. Luke, and in the absence in St. Mark
of any mention of the miraculous birth at all--nevertheless, the body of the story is essentially
the same. Out of those words and actions--so many, that if all were related the world itself
could not contain the books that should be written--the three evangelists select for the most
part the same; the same parables, the same miracles, and, more or less complete, the same addresses.
When the material from which to select was so abundant--how abundant we have but to turn to
the fourth evangelist to see--it is at least singular that three writers should have made so
nearly the same choice.

II. But this is not all. Not only are the things related the same, but the language in which
they are expressed is the same. Sometimes the resemblance is such as would have arisen had
the evangelists been translating from a common document in another language. Sometimes, and
most frequently, there is an absolute verbal identity; sentences, paragraphs, long passages,
are word for word the very same; a few expressions have been slightly varied, a particle transposed,
a tense or a case altered, but the differences being no greater than would arise if a number
of persons were to write from memory some common passages which they knew almost by heart.
That there should have been this identity in the account of the words used by our Lord seems
at first sight no more than we should expect. But it extends to the narrative as well; and
with respect to the parables and discourses, there is this extraordinary feature, that whereas
our Lord is supposed to have spoken in the ordinary language of Palestine, the resemblance
between the evangelists is in the Greek translation of them; and how unlikely it is that a
number of persons in translating from one language into another should hit by accident on the
same expressions, the simplest experiment will show.

Now, waiving for a moment the inspiration of the Gospels; interpreting the Bible, to use Mr.
Jowett's canon, as any other book, what are we to conclude from phenomena of this kind? What
in fact do we conclude when we encounter them elsewhere? In the lives of the saints, in the
monkish histories, there are many parallel cases. A mediæval chronicler, when he found a story
well told by his predecessor, seldom cared to recompose it; he transcribed the words as they
stood into his own narrative, contented perhaps with making a few trifling changes to add a
finish or a polish. Sometimes two chroniclers borrow from a third. There is the same identity
in particular expressions, the same general resemblance, the same divergence, as each improves
his original from his independent knowledge by addition or omission; but the process is so
transparent, that when the original is lost, the existence of it can be inferred with certainty.

Or to take a more modern parallel--we must entreat our readers to pardon any seeming irreverence
which may appear in the comparison--if in the letters of the correspondents of three different
newspapers written from America or Germany, we were to read the same incidents told in the
same language, surrounded it might be with much that was unlike, but nevertheless in themselves
identical, and related in words which, down to unusual and remarkable terms of expression,
were exactly the same, what should we infer?

Suppose, for instance, the description of a battle; if we were to find but a single paragraph
in which two out of three correspondents agreed verbally, we should regard it as a very strange
coincidence. If all three agreed verbally, we should feel certain it was more than accident.
If throughout their letters there was a recurring series of such passages, no doubt would be
left in the mind of any one that either the three correspondents had seen each other's letters,
or that each had had before him some common narrative which he had incorporated in his own
account. It might be doubtful which of these two explanations was the true one; but that one
or other of them was true, unless we suppose a miracle, is as certain as any conclusion in
human things can be certain at all. The sworn testimony of eye-witnesses who had seen the letters
so composed would add nothing to the weight of a proof which without their evidence would be
overwhelming; and were the writers themselves, with their closest friends and companions, to
swear that there had been no intercommunication, and no story pre-existing of which they had
made use, and that each had written bonâ fide from his own original observation, an English
jury would sooner believe the whole party perjured than persuade themselves that so extraordinary
a coincidence would have occurred.

Nor would it be difficult to ascertain from internal evidence which of the two possible interpretations
was the real one. If the writers were men of evident good faith; if their stories were in parts
widely different; if they made no allusion to each other, nor ever referred to one another
as authorities; finally, if neither of them, in giving a different account of any matter from
that given by his companions, professed either to be supplying an omission or correcting a
mistake, then we should have little doubt that they had themselves not communicated with each
other, but were supplementing, each of them from other sources of information, a central narrative
which all alike had before them.

How far may we apply the parallel to the Synoptical Gospels? In one sense the inspiration lifts
them above comparison, and disposes summarily of critical perplexities; there is no difficulty
which may not be explained by a miracle; and in that aspect the points of disagreement between
these accounts are more surprising than the similarities. It is on the disagreements in fact
that the labours of commentators have chiefly been expended. Yet it is a question whether,
on the whole, inspiration does not leave unaffected the ordinary human phenomena; and it is
hard to suppose that where the rules of judgment in ordinary writings are so distinct, God
would have thus purposely cast a stumbling-block in our way, and contrived a snare into which
our reason should mislead us. That is hard to credit; yet that and nothing else we must believe
if we refuse to apply to the Gospel the same canons of criticism which with other writings
would be a guide so decisive. It may be assumed that the facts connected with them admit a
natural explanation; and we arrive, therefore, at the same conclusion as before: that either
two of the evangelists borrowed from the third, or else that there was some other Gospel besides
those which are now extant; existing perhaps both in Hebrew and Greek--existing certainly in
Greek--the fragments of which are scattered up and down through St. Mark, St. Matthew, and
St. Luke, in masses sufficiently large to be distinctly recognisable.

That at an early period in the Christian Church many such Gospels existed, we know certainly
from the words of St. Luke. St. Paul alludes to words used by our Lord which are not mentioned
by the evangelists, which he assumed nevertheless to be well known to his hearers. He speaks,
too, of an appearance of our Lord after His resurrection to five hundred brethren; on which
the four Gospels are also silent. It is indisputable, therefore, that besides and antecedent
to them there were other accounts of our Lord's life in use in the Christian Church. And indeed,
what more natural, what more necessary, than that from the day on which the apostles entered
upon their public mission, some narrative should have been drawn up of the facts which they
were about to make known? Then as little as now could the imagination of men be trusted to
relate accurately a story composed of stupendous miracles without mistake or exaggeration;
and their very first step would have been to compose an account of what had passed, to which
they could speak with certainty, and which they could invest with authoritative sanction. Is
it not possible then that the identical passages in the Synoptical Gospels are the remains
of something of this kind, which the evangelists, in their later, fuller, and more complete
histories, enlarged and expanded? The conjecture has been often made, and English commentators
have for the most part dismissed it slightingly; not apparently being aware that in rejecting
one hypothesis they were bound to suggest another; or at least to admit that there was something
which required explanation, though this particular suggestion did not seem satisfactory. Yet
if it were so, the external testimony for the truth of the Gospel history would be stronger
than before. It would amount to the collective view of the first congregation of Christians,
who had all immediate and personal knowledge of our Lord's miracles and death and resurrection.

But perhaps the external history of the four Gospels may throw some light upon the question,
if indeed we can speak of light where all is a cloud of uncertainty. It would seem as if the
sources of Christianity, like the roots of all other living things, were purposely buried in
mystery. There exist no ancient writings whatever of such vast moment to mankind of which so
little can be authentically known.

The four Gospels, in the form and under the names which they at present bear, become visible
only with distinctness towards the end of the second century of the Christian era. Then it
was that they assumed the authoritative position which they have ever since maintained, and
were selected by the Church out of the many other then existing narratives as the supreme and
exclusive authorities for our Lord's life. Irenæus is the first of the Fathers in whom they
are found attributed by name to St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke, and St. John. That there were
four true evangelists, and that there could be neither more nor less than four, Irenæus had
persuaded himself because there were four winds or spirits, and four divisions of the earth,
for which the Church being universal required four columns; because the cherubim had four faces,
to each of which an evangelist corresponded; because four covenants had been given to mankind--one
before the Deluge in Adam, one after the Deluge in Noah, the third in Moses, the fourth and
greatest in the New Testament; while again the name of Adam was composed of four letters. It
is not to be supposed that the intellects of those great men who converted the world to Christianity
were satisfied with arguments so imaginative as these; they must have had other closer and
more accurate grounds for their decision; but the mere employment of such figures as evidence
in any sense, shows the enormous difference between their modes of reasoning and ours, and
illustrates the difficulty of deciding at our present distance from them how far their conclusions
were satisfactory.

Of the Gospels separately the history is immediately lost in legend.

The first notice of a Gospel of St. Matthew is in the well-known words of Papias, a writer
who in early life might have seen St. John. The works of Papias are lost--a misfortune the
more to be regretted because Eusebius speaks of him as a man of very limited understanding,
[Greek: panu smikros ton noun]. Understanding and folly are words of undetermined meaning;
and when language like that of Irenæus could seem profound it is quite possible that Papias
might have possessed commonplace faculties which would have been supremely useful to us. A
surviving fragment of him says that St. Matthew put together the discourses of our Lord in
Hebrew, and that every one interpreted them as he could. Pantænus, said by Eusebius to have
been another contemporary of the apostles, was reported to have gone to India, to have found
there a congregation of Christians which had been established by St. Bartholomew, and to have
seen in use among them this Hebrew Gospel. Origen repeats the story, which in his time had
become the universal Catholic tradition, that St. Matthew's was the first Gospel, that it was
written in Hebrew, and that it was intended for the use of the Jewish converts. Jerome adds
that it was unknown when or by whom it was rendered into a Greek version. That was all which
the Church had to say; and what had become of that Hebrew original no one could tell.

That there existed a Hebrew Gospel in very early times is well authenticated; there was a Gospel
called the Gospel of the Ebionites or Nazarenes, of which Origen possessed a copy, and which
St. Jerome thought it worth while to translate; this too is lost, and Jerome's translation
of it also; but the negative evidence seems conclusive that it was not the lost Gospel of St.
Matthew. Had it been so it could not have failed to be recognised, although from such accounts
of it as have been preserved, it possessed some affinity with St. Matthew's Gospel. In one
instance, indeed, it gave the right reading of a text which has perplexed orthodox commentators,
and has induced others to suspect that that Gospel in its present form could not have existed
before the destruction of Jerusalem. The Zachariah the son of Barachiah said by St. Matthew
to have been slain between the temple and the altar, is unknown to Old Testament history, while
during the siege of Jerusalem a Zachariah the son of Barachiah actually was killed exactly
in the manner described. But in the Ebionite Gospel the same words are found with this slight
but important difference, that the Zachariah in question is there called the son of Jehoiadah,
and is at once identified with the person whose murder is related in the Second Book of Chronicles.
The later translator of St. Matthew had probably confused the names.

Of St. Mark's Gospel the history is even more profoundly obscure. Papias, again the highest
discoverable link of the Church tradition, says that St. Mark accompanied St. Peter to Rome
as his interpreter; and that while there he wrote down what St. Peter told him, or what he
could remember St. Peter to have said. Clement of Alexandria enlarges the story. According
to Clement, when St. Peter was preaching at Rome, the Christian congregation there requested
St. Mark to write a Gospel for them; St. Mark complied without acquainting St. Peter, and St.
Peter when informed of it was uncertain whether to give or withhold his sanction till his mind
was set at rest by a vision.

Irenæus, on the other hand, says that St. Mark's Gospel was not written till after the death
of St. Peter and St. Paul. St. Chrysostom says that after it was written St. Mark went to Egypt
and published it at Alexandria; Epiphanius again, that the Egyptian expedition was undertaken
at the express direction of St. Peter himself.

Thus the Church tradition is inconsistent with itself, and in all probability is nothing but
a structure of air; it is bound up with the presence of St. Peter at Rome; and the only ground
for supposing that St. Peter was ever at Rome at all is the passage at the close of St. Peter's
First Epistle, where it pleased the Fathers to assume that the 'Babylon' there spoken of must
have been the city of the Cæsars. This passage alone, with the wild stories (now known to have
originated in the misreading of an inscription) of St. Peter's conflict with Simon Magus in
the presence of the emperor, form together the light and airy arches on which the huge pretences
of the Church of Rome have reared themselves. If the Babylon of the Epistle was Babylon on
the Euphrates--and there is not the slightest historical reason to suppose it to have been
anything else--the story of the origin of St. Mark's Gospel perishes with the legend to which
it was inseparably attached by Church tradition.

Of St. John's Gospel we do not propose to speak in this place; it forms a subject by itself;
and of that it is enough to say that the defects of external evidence which undoubtedly exist
seem overborne by the overwhelming proofs of authenticity contained in the Gospel itself.

The faint traditionary traces which inform us that St. Matthew and St. Mark were supposed to
have written Gospels fail us with St. Luke. The apostolic and the immediately post-apostolic
Fathers never mention Luke as having written a history of our Lord at all. There was indeed
a Gospel in use among the Marcionites which resembled that of St. Luke, as the Gospel of the
Ebionites resembled that of St. Matthew. In both the one and the other there was no mention
of our Lord's miraculous birth; and later writers accused Marcion of having mutilated St. Luke.
But apparently their only reason for thinking so was that the two Gospels were like each other;
and for all that can be historically proved, the Gospel of the Marcionites may have been the
older of the two. What is wanting externally, however, is supposed to be more than made up
by the language of St. Luke himself. The Gospel was evidently composed in its present form
by the same person who wrote the Acts of the Apostles. In the latter part of the Acts of the
Apostles the writer speaks in the first person as the companion of St. Paul; and the date of
this Gospel seems to be thus conclusively fixed at an early period in the apostolic age. There
is at least a high probability that this reasoning is sound; yet it has seemed strange that
a convert so eminent as 'the most excellent' Theophilus, to whom St. Luke addressed himself,
should be found impossible to identify. 'Most excellent' was a title given only to persons
of high rank; and it is singular that St. Paul himself should never have mentioned so considerable
a name. And again, there is something peculiar in the language of the introduction to the Gospel
itself. Though St. Luke professes to be writing on the authority of eye-witnesses, he does
not say he had spoken with eye-witnesses; so far from it, that the word translated in the English
version 'delivered' is literally 'handed down;' it is the verb which corresponds to the technical
expression for 'tradition;' and the words translated 'having had perfect understanding of all
things from the first,' might be rendered more properly, 'having traced or followed up all
things from the beginning.' And again, as it is humanly speaking certain that in St. Luke's
Gospel there are passages, however they are to be explained, which were embodied in it from
some other source, so, though extremely probable, it is not absolutely certain that those passages
in the Acts in which the writer speaks in the first person are by the same hand as the body
of the narrative. If St. Luke had anywhere directly introduced himself--if he had said plainly
that he, the writer who was addressing Theophilus, had personally joined St. Paul, and in that
part of his story was relating what he had seen and heard, there would be no room for uncertainty.
But, so far as we know, there is no other instance in literature of a change of person introduced
abruptly without explanation. The whole book is less a connected history than a series of episodes
and fragments of the proceedings of the apostles; and it is to be noticed that the account
of St. Paul's conversion, as given in its place in the first part of the narrative, differs
in one material point from the second account given later in the part which was unquestionably
the work of one of St. Paul's companions. There is a possibility--it amounts to no more, and
the suggestion is thrown out for the consideration of those who are better able than this writer
to judge of it--that in the Gospel and the Acts we have the work of a careful editor of the
second century. Towards the close of that century a prominent actor in the great movement which
gave their present authority to the four Gospels was Theophilus, Bishop of Antioch; he it was
who brought them together, incorporated into a single work--in unum opus; and it may be, after
all, that in him we have the long-sought person to whom St. Luke was writing; that the Gospel
which we now possess was compiled at his desire out of other imperfect Gospels in use in the
different Churches; and that it formed a part of his scheme to supersede them by an account
more exhaustive, complete, and satisfactory.

To this hypothesis indeed there is an answer which if valid at all is absolutely fatal. We
are told that although the names of the writers of the Gospels may not be mentioned until a
comparatively late period, yet that the Gospels themselves can be shown to have existed, because
they are habitually quoted in the authentic writings of the earliest of the Fathers. If this
be so, the slightness of the historical thread is of little moment, and we may rest safely
on the solid ground of so conclusive a fact. But is it so? That the early Fathers quoted some
accounts of our Lord's life is abundantly clear; but did they quote these? We proceed to examine
this question--again tentatively only--we do but put forward certain considerations on which
we ask for fuller information.

If any one of the primitive Christian writers was likely to have been acquainted with the authentic
writings of the evangelists, that one was indisputably Justin Martyr. Born in Palestine in
the year 89, Justin Martyr lived to the age of seventy-six; he travelled over the Roman world
as a missionary; and intellectually he was more than on a level with most educated Oriental
Christians. He was the first distinctly controversial writer which the Church produced; and
the great facts of the Gospel history were obviously as well known to him as they are to ourselves.
There are no traces in his writings of an acquaintance with anything peculiar either to St.
John or St. Mark; but there are extracts in abundance often identical with and generally nearly
resembling passages in St. Matthew and St. Luke. Thus at first sight it would be difficult
to doubt that with these two Gospels at least he was intimately familiar. And yet in all his
citations there is this peculiarity, that Justin Martyr never speaks of either of the evangelists
by name; he quotes or seems to quote invariably from something which he calls [Greek: apomnêmoneumata
tôn Apostolôn], or 'Memoirs of the Apostles.' It is no usual habit of his to describe his authorities
vaguely: when he quotes the Apocalypse he names St. John; when he refers to a prophet he specifies
Isaiah, Jeremiah, or Daniel. Why, unless there was some particular reason for it, should he
use so singular an expression whenever he alludes to the sacred history of the New Testament?
why, if he knew the names of the evangelists, did he never mention them even by accident? Nor
is this the only singularity in Justin Martyr's quotations. There are those slight differences
between them and the text of the Gospels which appear between the Gospels themselves. When
we compare an extract in Justin with the parallel passage in St. Matthew, we find often that
it differs from St. Matthew just as St. Matthew differs from St. Luke, or both from St. Mark--great
verbal similarity--many paragraphs agreeing word for word--and then other paragraphs where
there is an alteration of expression, tense, order, or arrangement.

Again, just as in the midst of the general resemblance between the Synoptical Gospels, each
evangelist has something of his own which is not to be found in the others, so in these 'Memoirs
of the Apostles' there are facts unknown to either of the evangelists. In the account extracted
by Justin from 'the Memoirs,' of the baptism in the Jordan, the words heard from heaven are
not as St. Matthew gives them--'Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased'--but the
words of the psalm, 'Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten Thee;' a reading which, singularly
enough, was to be found in the Gospel of the Ebionites.

Another curious addition to the same scene is in the words [Greek: kai pur anêphthê en Iordanê],
'and a fire was kindled in Jordan.'

Again, Justin Martyr speaks of our Lord having promised 'to clothe us with garments made ready
for us if we keep his commandments'--[Greek: kai aiônion basileian pronoêsai]--whatever those
words may precisely mean.

These and other peculiarities in Justin may be explained if we suppose him to have been quoting
from memory. The evangelical text might not as yet have acquired its verbal sanctity; and as
a native of Palestine he might well have been acquainted with other traditions which lay outside
the written word. The silence as to names, however, remains unexplained; and as the facts actually
stand there is the same kind of proof, and no more, that Justin Martyr was acquainted with
St. Matthew and St. Luke as there is that one of these evangelists made extracts from the other,
or both from St. Mark. So long as one set of commentators decline to recognise the truth of
this relation between the Gospels, there will be others who with as much justice will dispute
the relation of Justin to them. He too might have used another Gospel, which, though like them,
was not identical with them.

After Justin Martyr's death, about the year 170, appeared Tatian's 'Diatessaron,' a work which,
as its title implies, was a harmony of four Gospels, and most likely of the four; yet again
not exactly as we have them. Tatian's harmony, like so many others of the early evangelical
histories, was silent on the miraculous birth, and commenced only with the public ministration.
The text was in other places different, so much so that Theodoret accuses Tatian of having
mutilated the Gospels; but of this Theodoret had probably no better means of judging than we
have. The 'Diatessaron' has been long lost, and the name is the only clue to its composition.

Of far more importance than either Justin or Tatian are such writings as remain of the immediate
successors of the apostles--Barnabas, Clement of Rome, Polycarp, and Ignatius: it is asserted
confidently that in these there are quotations from the Gospels so exact that they cannot be
mistaken.

We will examine them one by one.

In an epistle of Barnabas there is one passage--it is the only one of the kind to be found
in him--agreeing word for word with the Synoptical Gospels, 'I came not to call the righteous
but sinners to repentance.' It is one of the many passages in which the Greek of the three
evangelists is exactly the same; it was to be found also in Justin's 'Memoirs;' and there can
be no doubt that Barnabas either knew those Gospels or else the common source--if common source
there was--from which the evangelists borrowed. More than this such a quotation does not enable
us to say; and till some satisfactory explanation has been offered of the agreement between
the evangelists, the argument can advance no further. On the other hand, Barnabas like St.
Paul had other sources from which he drew his knowledge of our Lord's words. He too ascribes
words to Him which are not recorded by the evangelists, [Greek: houtô phêsin Iêsous; hoi thelontes
me idein kai hapsasthai mou tês basileias opheilousi thlibentes kai pathontes labein me]. The
thought is everywhere in the Gospels, the words nowhere, nor anything like them.

Both Ignatius and Polycarp appear to quote the Gospels, yet with them also there is the same
uncertainty; while Ignatius quotes as genuine an expression which, so far as we know, was peculiar
to a translation of the Gospel of the Ebionites--'Handle me and see, for I am not a spirit
without body,' [Greek: hoti ouk eimi daimonion asômaton].

Clement's quotations are still more free, for Clement nowhere quotes the text of the evangelists
exactly as it at present stands; often he approaches it extremely close; at times the agreement
is rather in meaning than words, as if he were translating from another language. But again
Clement more noticeably than either of the other apostolic Fathers cites expressions of our
Lord of which the evangelists knew nothing.

For instance--

'The Lord saith, "If ye be with me gathered into my bosom, and do not after my commandments,
I will cast you off, and I will say unto you, Depart from me, I know you not, ye workers of
iniquity."'

And again:--

'The Lord said, "Ye shall be as sheep in the midst of wolves." Peter answered and said unto
Him, "Will the wolves then tear the sheep?" Jesus said unto Peter, "The sheep need not fear
the wolves after they (the sheep) be dead: and fear not ye those who kill you and can do nothing
to you; but fear Him who after you be dead hath power over soul and body to cast them into
hell-fire."'

In these words we seem to have the lost link in a passage which appears in a different connection
in St. Matthew and St. Luke. It may be said, as with Justin Martyr, that Clement was quoting
from memory in the sense rather than in the letter; although even so it is difficult to suppose
that he could have invented an interlocution of St. Peter. Yet no hypothesis will explain the
most strange words which follow:--

'The Lord being asked when His kingdom should come, said, "When two shall be one, and that
which is without as that which is within, and the male with the female neither male nor female."'

It is needless to say how remote are such expressions as these from any which have come down
to us through the evangelists; but they were no inventions of Clement. The passage reappears
later in Clement of Alexandria, who found it in something which he called the Gospel of the
Egyptians.

It will be urged that because Clement quoted other authorities beside the evangelists, it does
not follow that he did not know and quote from them. If the citation of a passage which appears
in almost the same words in another book is not to be accepted as a proof of an acquaintance
with that book, we make it impossible, it may be said, to prove from quotations at all the
fact of any book's existence. But this is not the case. If a Father, in relating an event which
is told variously in the Synoptical Gospels, had followed one of them minutely in its verbal
peculiarities, it would go far to prove that he was acquainted with that one; if the same thing
was observed in all his quotations, the proof would amount to demonstration. If he agreed minutely
in one place with one Gospel, minutely in a second with another, minutely in a third with another,
there would be reason to believe that he was acquainted with them all; but when he merely relates
what they also relate in language which approaches theirs and yet differs from it, as they
also resemble yet differ from one another, we do not escape from the circle of uncertainty,
and we conclude either that the early Fathers made quotations with a looseness irreconcileable
with the idea that the language of the Gospels possessed any verbal sacredness to them, or
that there were in their times other narratives of our Lord's life standing in the same relation
to the three Gospels as St. Matthew stands to St. Mark and St. Luke.

Thus the problem returns upon us; and it might almost seem as if the explanation was laid purposely
beyond our reach. We are driven back upon internal criticism; and we have to ask again what
account is to be given of that element common to the Synoptical Gospels, common also to those
other Gospels of which we find traces so distinct--those verbal resemblances, too close to
be the effect of accident--those differences which forbid the supposition that the evangelists
copied one another. So many are those common passages, that if all which is peculiar to each
evangelist by himself were dropped, if those words and those actions only were retained which
either all three or two at least share together, the figure of our Lord from His baptism to
His ascension would remain with scarcely impaired majesty.

One hypothesis, and so far as we can see one only, would make the mystery intelligible, that
immediately on the close of our Lord's life some original sketch of it was drawn up by the
congregation, which gradually grew and gathered round it whatever His mother, His relations,
or His disciples afterwards individually might contribute. This primary history would thus
not be the work of any one mind or man; it would be the joint work of the Church, and thus
might well be called 'Memoirs of the Apostles;' and would naturally be quoted without the name
of either one of them being specially attached to it. As Christianity spread over the world,
and separate Churches were founded by particular apostles, copies would be multiplied, and
copies of those copies; and, unchecked by the presence (before the invention of printing impossible)
of any authoritative text, changes would creep in--passages would be left out which did not
suit the peculiar views of this or that sect; others would be added as this or that apostle
recollected something which our Lord had said that bore on questions raised in the development
of the creed. Two great divisions would form themselves between the Jewish and the Gentile
Churches; there would be a Hebrew Gospel and a Greek Gospel, and the Hebrew would be translated
into Greek, as Papias says St. Matthew's Gospel was. Eventually the confusion would become
intolerable; and among the conflicting stories the Church would have been called on to make
its formal choice.

This fact at least is certain from St. Luke's words, that at the time when he was writing many
different narratives did actually exist. The hypothesis of a common origin for them has as
yet found little favour with English theologians; yet rather perhaps because it would be inconvenient
for certain peculiar forms of English thought than because it has not probability on its side.
That the Synoptical Gospels should have been a natural growth rather than the special and independent
work of three separate writers, would be unfavourable to a divinity which has built itself
up upon particular texts, and has been more concerned with doctrinal polemics than with the
broader basements of historic truth. Yet the text theory suffers equally from the mode in which
the first Fathers treated the Gospels, if it were these Gospels indeed which they used. They
at least could have attributed no importance to words and phrases; while again, as we said
before, a narrative dating from the cradle of Christianity, with the testimony in its favour
of such broad and deep reception, would, however wanting in some details, be an evidence of
the truth of the main facts of the Gospel history very much stronger than that of three books
composed we know not when, and the origin of which it is impossible to trace, which it is impossible
to regard as independent, and the writers of which in any other view of them must be assumed
to have borrowed from each other.

But the object of this article is not to press either this or any other theory; it is but to
ask from those who are able to give it an answer to the most serious of questions. The truth
of the Gospel history is now more widely doubted in Europe than at any time since the conversion
of Constantine. Every thinking person who has been brought up a Christian and desires to remain
a Christian, yet who knows anything of what is passing in the world, is looking to be told
on what evidence the New Testament claims to be received. The state of opinion proves of itself
that the arguments hitherto offered produce no conviction. Every other miraculous history is
discredited as legend, however exalted the authority on which it seems to be rested. We crave
to have good reason shown us for maintaining still the one great exception. Hard worked in
other professions, and snatching with difficulty sufficient leisure to learn how complicated
is the problem, the laity can but turn to those for assistance who are set apart and maintained
as their theological trustees. We can but hope and pray that some one may be found to give
us an edition of the Gospels in which the difficulties will neither be slurred over with convenient
neglect or noticed with affected indifference. It may or may not be a road to a bishopric;
it may or may not win the favour of the religious world; but it will earn at least the respectful
gratitude of those who cannot trifle with holy things, and who believe that true religion is
the service of truth.

The last words were scarcely written when an advertisement appeared, the importance of which
can scarcely be over-estimated. A commentary is announced on the Old and New Testaments, to
be composed with a view to what are called the 'misrepresentations' of modern criticism. It
is to be brought out under the direction of the heads of the Church, and is the nearest approach
to an official act in these great matters which they have ventured for two hundred years. It
is not for us to anticipate the result. The word 'misrepresentations' is unfortunate; we should
have augured better for the work if instead of it had been written 'the sincere perplexities
of honest minds.' But the execution may be better than the promise. If these perplexities are
encountered honourably and successfully, the Church may recover its supremacy over the intellect
of the country; if otherwise, the archbishop who has taken the command will have steered the
vessel direct upon the rocks.

FOOTNOTES:

[E] Fraser's Magazine, 1864.

[F] I do not speak of individuals; I speak of tendency. The mystery of the outer world becomes
deeper to him, but he does not any more try to understand it.

How these high feelings ebbed away, and Christianity became what we know it, we are partially
beginning to see.

FOOTNOTES:

[G] Westminster Review, 1853.

[H] 1. Die poetischen Bücher des Alten Bundes. Erklärt von Heinrich Ewald. Göttingen: bei Vanderhoeck
und Ruprecht. 1836.

    2. Kurz gefasstes exegetisches Handbuch zum Alten Testament. Zweite
Lieferung.

[I] Or rather by St. Jerome, whom our translators have followed.

[J] See Ewald on Job ix. 13, and xxvi. 14.

[M] See the Thirteenth Article. Atque Annotationes ad Tractatum Theologico-Politicum. Edidit
et illustravit EDWARDUS BOEHMER. What, then, were these ideas--these veræ ideæ, as he calls
them--and how were they to be obtained? Intell.)

Spinoza will scarcely carry with him the reasoner of the nineteenth century in arguments like
these.

Spinoza himself, however, obviously felt an intense conviction of the validity of his argument.

There is, however, another group of feelings which cannot be set aside in this way, which do
prove that, in some sense or other, in some degree or other, we are the authors of our own actions.

FOOTNOTES:

[N] Westminster Review, 1854.

First for the Harmonie Pré-établie. Figurez-vous deux horloges ou montres qui s'accordent parfaitement.
Or cela se peut faire de trois manières. La 1^{e} consiste dans une influence mutuelle. La
2^{e} est d'y attacher un ouvrier habile qui les redresse, et les mette d'accord à tous moments.

[P] Réfutation Inédite de Spinoza. Par Leibnitz. Précédée d'une Mémoire, par Foucher de Careil.
Paris. 1854. We refuse to believe it. Also he enjoined us at every mass that every priest did
sing, to say the collect, "Oh God, who despisest not the sighing of a contrite heart." And
he said if we did this with good and true devotion, God would so handle the matter, that it
should be to the comfort of all England, and so show us mercy as he showed unto the children
of Israel. Now, when the passions of those times have died away, and we can look back with
more indifferent eyes, how touching is the following scene. We will not refuse the Abbot Hobbes
a brief record of his trial and passion.

FOOTNOTES:

[Q] From Fraser's Magazine, 1857.

[R] Rolls House MS., Miscellaneous Papers, First Series. 356.

[S] Tanner MS. 105, Bodleian Library, Oxford.

[T] Meaning, as he afterwards said, More and Fisher and the Carthusians.

ENGLAND'S FORGOTTEN WORTHIES.[U]

1. The Observations of Sir Richard Hawkins, Knt., in his Voyage in the South Sea in 1593. Reprinted
from the Edition of 1622, and Edited by R. H. Major, Esq., of the British Museum. Published
by the Hakluyt Society.

2. The Discoverie of the Empire of Guiana. By Sir Walter Ralegh, Knt. Edited, with copious
Explanatory Notes, and a Biographical Memoir, by Sir Robert H. Schomburgk, Phil. D., &c.

3. Narratives of Early Voyages undertaken for the Discovery of a Passage to Cathaia and India
by the North-west; with Selections from the Records of the Worshipful Fellowship of the Merchants
of London, trading into the East Indies, and from MSS. in the Library of the British Museum,
now first published, by Thomas Rundall, Esq. Consider what Homer's 'Odyssey' would be, reduced
into an analysis. If we do not for give the villain, at least we cease to hate him, as it grows
more clear to us that he injures none so deeply as himself. Drake, it is true, appropriated
and brought home a million and a half of Spanish treasure, while England and Spain were at
peace. He took that treasure because for many years the officers of the Inquisition had made
free at their pleasure with the lives and goods of English merchants and seamen. The king of
Spain, when appealed to, had replied that he had no power over the Holy House; and it was necessary
to make the king of Spain, or the Inquisition, or whoever were the parties responsible, feel
that they could not play their pious pranks with impunity. When Drake seized the bullion at
Panama, he sent word to the viceroy that he should now learn to respect the properties of English
subjects; and he added, that if four English sailors, who were prisoners in Mexico, were molested,
he would execute 2,000 Spaniards and send the viceroy their heads. Spain and England were at
peace, but Popery and Protestantism were at war--deep, deadly, and irreconcileable. We have
glimpses of him a few years earlier, when he won his spurs in Ireland--won them by deeds which
to us seem terrible in their ruthlessness, but which won the applause of Sir Henry Sidney as
too high for praise or even reward. But such [Greek: daimoniê aretê] was more than could be
expected of ordinary seamen. They had dared do all which did become men, and they were not
more than men.

FOOTNOTES:

[U] Westminster Review, 1853.

[V] This essay was written 15 years ago.

HOMER.[X]

Troy fell before the Greeks; and in its turn the war of Troy is now falling before the critics.
That ten years' death-struggle, in which the immortals did not disdain to mingle--those massive
warriors, with their grandeur and their chivalry, have, 'like an unsubstantial pageant, faded'
before the wand of these modern enchanters; and the Iliad and the Odyssey, and the other early
legends, are discovered to be no more than the transparent myths of an old cosmogony, the arabesques
and frescoes with which the imagination of the Ionian poets set off and ornamented the palace
of the heavens, the struggle of the earth with the seasons, and the labours of the sun through
his twelve signs.

Nay, with Homer himself it was likely at one time to have fared no better. His works, indeed,
were indestructible, yet if they could not be destroyed, they might be disorganised; and with
their instinctive hatred of facts, the critics fastened on the historical existence of the
poet. The origin of the poems was distributed among the clouds of pre-historic imagination;
and--instead of a single inspired Homer for their author, we were required to believe in some
extraordinary spontaneous generation, or in some collective genius of an age which ignorance
had personified.

But the person of a poet has been found more difficult of elimination than a mere fact of history.
Facts, it was once said, were stubborn things; but in our days we have changed all that; a
fact, under the knife of a critic, splits in pieces, and is dissected out of belief with incredible
readiness. The helpless thing lies under his hand like a foolish witness in a law court, when
browbeaten by an unscrupulous advocate, and is turned about and twisted this way and that way,
till in its distraction it contradicts itself, and bears witness against itself; and to escape
from torture, at last flies utterly away, itself half doubting its own existence.

But it requires more cunning weapons to destroy a Homer; like his own immortals, he may be
wounded, but he cannot have the life carved out of him by the prosaic strokes of common men.
His poems have but to be disintegrated to unite again, so strong are they in the individuality
of their genius. The singleness of their structure--the unity of design--the distinctness of
drawing in the characters--the inimitable peculiarities of manner in each of them, seem to
place beyond serious question, after the worst onslaught of the Wolfian critics, that both
Iliad and Odyssey, whether or not the work of the same mind, are at least each of them singly
the work of one.

Let them leave us Homer, however, and on the rank and file of facts they may do their worst;
we can be indifferent to, or even thankful for, what slaughter they may make. In the legends
of the Theogonia, in that of Zeus and Cronus, for instance, there is evidently a metaphysical
allegory; in the legends of Persephone, or of the Dioscuri, a physical one; in that of Athene,
a profoundly philosophical one; and fused as the entire system was in the intensely poetical
conception of the early thinkers, it would be impossible, even if it were desirable, at this
time of day, to disentangle the fibres of all these various elements. Fact and theory, the
natural and the supernatural, the legendary and the philosophical, shade off so imperceptibly
one into the other, in the stories of the Olympians, or of their first offspring, that we can
never assure ourselves that we are on historic ground, or that, antecedent to the really historic
age, there is any such ground to be found anywhere. The old notion, that the heroes were deified
men, is no longer tenable. With but few exceptions, we can trace their names as the names of
the old gods of the Hellenic or Pelasgian races; and if they appeared later in human forms,
they descended from Olympus to assume them. Diomed was the OEtolian sun-god; Achilles was worshipped
in Thessaly long before he became the hero of the tale of Troy. The tragedy of the house of
Atreus, and the bloody bath of Agamemnon, as we are now told with appearance of certainty,[Y]
are humanised stories of the physical struggle of the opposing principles of life and death,
light and darkness, night and day, winter and summer.

And let them be so; we need not be sorry to believe that there is no substantial basis for
these tales of crime. The history of mankind is not so pure but that we can afford to lose
a few dark pages out of the record. Let it be granted that of the times which Homer sung historically
we know nothing literal at all--not any names of any kings, of any ministers, wars, intrigues,
revolutions, crimes. They are all gone--dead--passed away; their vacant chronicles may be silent
as the tombs in which their bones are buried. Of such stuff as that with which historians fill
their pages there is no trace; it is a blank, vacant as the annals of the Hottentot or of the
Red Indian. Yet when all is said, there remain still to us in Homer's verse, materials richer,
perhaps, than exist for any period of the ancient world, richer than even for the brilliant
days of Pericles, or of the Cæsars, to construct a history of another kind--a history, a picture
not of the times of which he sang, but of the men among whom he lived. How they acted; how
they thought, talked, and felt; what they made of this earth, and of their place in it; their
private life and their public life; men and women; masters and servants; rich and poor--we
have it all delineated in the marvellous verse of a poet who, be he what he may, was in this
respect the greatest which the earth has ever seen. In extent, the information is little enough;
but in the same sense as it has been said that an hour at an Athenian supper-party would teach
us more Grecian life and character than all Aristophanes, Homer's pictures of life and manners
are so living, so distinct, so palpable, that a whole prose encyclopædia of disconnected facts
could give us nothing like them. It is the marvellous property of verse--one, if we rightly
consider it, which would excuse any superstition on the origin of language--that the metrical
and rhythmic arrangement of syllable and sound is able to catch and express back to us, not
the stories of actions, but the actions themselves, with all the feelings which inspire them;
to call up human action, and all other outward things in which human hearts take interest--to
produce them, or to reproduce them, with a distinctness which shall produce the same emotions
which they would themselves produce when really existing. The thing itself is made present
before us by an exercise of creative power as genuine as that of Nature herself; which, perhaps,
is but the same power manifesting itself at one time in words, at another in outward phenomena.
Whatever be the cause, the fact is so. Poetry has this life-giving power, and prose has it
not; and thus the poet is the truest historian. Whatever is properly valuable in history the
poet gives us--not events and names, but emotion, but action, but life. He is the heart of
his age, and his verse expresses his age; and what matter is it by what name he describes his
places or his persons? What matter is it what his own name was, while we have himself, and
while we have the originals, from which he drew? The work and the life are all for which we
need care, are all which can really interest us; the names are nothing. Though Phoeacia was
a dream-land, or a symbol of the Elysian fields, yet Homer drew his material, his island, his
palaces, his harbour, his gardens of perennial beauty, from those fair cities which lay along
the shores of his own Ionia; and like his blind Demodocus, Homer doubtless himself sung those
very hymns which now delight us so, in the halls of many a princely Alcinous.

The prose historian may give us facts and names; he may catalogue the successions, and tell
us long stories of battles, and of factions, and of political intrigues; he may draw characters
for us, of the sort which figure commonly in such features of human affairs, men of the unheroic,
unpoetic kind--the Cleons, the Sejanuses, the Tiberiuses, a Philip the Second or a Louis Quatorze,
in whom the noble element died out into selfishness and vulgarity. But great men--and all MEN
properly so called (whatever is genuine and natural in them)--lie beyond prose, and can only
be really represented by the poet. This is the reason why such men as Alexander, or as Cæsar,
or as Cromwell, so perplex us in histories, because they and their actions are beyond the scope
of the art through which we have looked at them. We compare the man as the historian represents
him, with the track of his path through the world. The work is the work of a giant; the man,
stripped of the vulgar appendages with which the stunted imagination of his biographer may
have set him off, is full of meannesses and littlenesses, and is scarcely greater than one
of ourselves. Prose, that is, has attempted something to which it is not equal. It describes
a figure which it calls Cæsar; but it is not Cæsar, it is a monster. For the same reason, prose
fictions, novels, and the like, are worthless for more than a momentary purpose. The life which
they are able to represent is not worth representing. There is no person so poor in his own
eyes as not to gaze with pleasure into a looking-glass; and the prose age may value its own
image in the novel. But the value of all such representations is ephemeral. It is with the
poet's art as with the sculptor's--sandstone will not carve like marble, its texture is too
loose to retain a sharply moulded outline. The actions of men, if they are true, noble, and
genuine, are strong enough to bear the form and bear the polish of verse; if loose or feeble,
they crumble away into the softer undulations of prose.

What the life was whose texture bore shaping into Homer's verse, we intend to spend these pages
in examining. It is, of course, properly to be sought for in the poems themselves. But we shall
here be concerned mainly with features which in the original are rather secondary than prominent,
and which have to be collected out of fragments, here a line, and there a line, out of little
hints, let fall by Homer as it were by accident. Things too familiar to his own hearers to
require dwelling on, to us, whose object is to make out just those very things which were familiar,
are of special and singular value. It is not an enquiry which will much profit us, if we come
to it with any grand notions of the 'progress of the species,' for in many ways it will discourage
the belief in progress.

We have fallen into ways of talking of the childhood and infancy of the race, as if no beards
had grown on any face before the modern Reformation; and even people who know what old Athens
was under Pericles, look commonly on earlier Greece as scarcely struggling out of its cradle.
It would have fared so with all early history except for the Bible. The Old Testament has operated
partially to keep us in our modest senses, and we can see something grand about the patriarchs;
but this is owing to exceptional causes, which do not apply to other literature; and in spite
of our admiration of Homer's poetry, we regard his age, and the contemporary periods in the
other people of the earth, as a kind of childhood little better than barbarism. We look upon
it, at all events, as too far removed in every essential of spirit or of form from our own,
to enable us to feel for it any strong interest or sympathy. More or less, we have, every one
of us, felt something of this kind. Homer's men are, at first sight, unlike any men that we
have ever seen; and it is not without a shock of surprise that, for the first time, we fall,
in reading him, across some little trait of humanity which in form as well as spirit is really
identical with our own experience. Then, for the moment, all is changed with us--gleams of
light flash out, in which the drapery becomes transparent, and we see the human form behind
it, and that entire old world in the warm glow of flesh and blood. Such is the effect of those
few child scenes of his, which throw us back into our old familiar childhood. With all these
years between us, there is no difference between their children and ours, and child would meet
child without sense of strangeness in common games and common pleasures.

The little Ulysses climbing on the knees of his father's guest, coaxing for a taste of the
red wine, and spilling it as he starts at the unusual taste; or that other most beautiful picture
of him running at Laertes's side in the garden at Ithaca, the father teaching the boy the names
of the fruit-trees, and making presents to him of this tree and of that tree for his very own,
to help him to remember what they were called; the partition wall of three thousand years melts
away as we look back at scenes like these; that broad, world-experienced man was once, then,
such a little creature as we remember ourselves, and Laertes a calm, kind father of the nineteenth
century. Then, as now, the children loved to sport upon the shore, and watch the inrolling
waves;--then, as now, the boy-architect would pile the moist sand into mimic town or castle,
and when the work was finished, sweep it away again in wanton humour with foot and hand;--then,
as now, the little tired maiden would cling to her mother's skirt, and, trotting painfully
along beside her, look up wistfully and plead with moist eyes to be carried in her arms. Nay,
and among the grown ones, where time has not changed the occupation, and the forms of culture
have little room to vary, we meet again with very familiar faces. There is Melantho, the not
over-modest tittering waiting-maid--saucy to her mistress and the old housekeeper, and always
running after the handsome young princes. Unhappy Melantho, true child of universal nature!
grievous work we should make with most households, if all who resemble thee were treated to
as rough a destiny. And there are other old friends whom it is pleasant enough to recognise
at so long a distance. 'Certain smooth-haired, sleek-faced fellows--insolent where their lords
would permit them; inquisitive and pert, living but to eat and drink, and pilfering the good
things, to convey them stealthily to their friends outside the castle wall.' The thing that
hath been, that shall be again. When Homer wrote, the type had settled into its long enduring
form. 'Such are they,' he adds, in his good-natured irony, 'as the valet race ever love to be.'

With such evidence of identity among us all, it is worth while to look closer at the old Greeks,
to try to find in Homer something beyond fine poetry, or exciting adventures, or battle-scenes,
or material for scholarship; for awhile to set all that aside, and look in him for the story
of real living men--set to pilgrimise in the old way on the same old earth--men such as we
are, children of one family, with the same work to do, to live the best life they could, and
to save their souls--with the same trials, the same passions, the same difficulties, if with
weaker means of meeting them.

And first for their religion.

Let those who like it, lend their labour to the unravelling the secrets of the mythologies.
Theogonies and Theologies are not religion; they are but its historic dress and outward or
formal expression, which, like a language, may be intelligible to those who see the inward
meaning in the sign, but no more than confused sound to us who live in another atmosphere,
and have no means of transferring ourselves into the sentiment of an earlier era. It is not
in these forms of a day or of an age that we should look for the real belief--the real feelings
of the heart; but in the natural expressions which burst out spontaneously--expressions of
opinion on Providence, on the relation of man to God, on the eternal laws by which this world
is governed. Perhaps we misuse the word in speaking of religion; we ought rather to speak of
piety: piety is always simple; the emotion is too vast, too overpowering, whenever it is genuine,
to be nice or fantastic in its form; and leaving philosophies and cosmogonies to shape themselves
in myth and legend, it speaks itself out with a calm and humble clearness. We may trifle with
our own discoveries, and hand them over to the fancy or the imagination for elaborate decoration.
We may shroud over supposed mysteries under an enigmatic veil, and adapt the degrees of initiation
to the capacities of our pupils; but before the vast facts of God and Providence, the difference
between man and man dwarfs into nothing. They are no discoveries of our own with which we can
meddle, but revelations of the Infinite, which, like the sunlight, shed themselves on all alike,
wise and unwise, good and evil, and they claim and they permit no other acknowledgment from
us than the simple obedience of our lives, and the plainest confession of our lips.

Such confessions, except in David's Psalms, we shall not anywhere find more natural or unaffected
than in Homer--most definite, yet never elaborate--as far as may be from any complimenting
of Providence, yet expressing the most unquestioning conviction. We shall not often remember
them when we set about religion as a business; but when the occasions of life stir the feelings
in us on which religion itself reposes, if we were as familiar with the Iliad as with the Psalms,
the words of the old Ionian singer would leap as naturally to our lips as those of the Israelite
king.

Zeus is not always the questionable son of Cronus, nor the gods always the mythologic Olympians.
Generally, it is true, they appear as a larger order of subject beings--beings like men, and
subject to a higher control--in a position closely resembling that of Milton's angels, and
liable like them to passion and to error. But at times, the father of gods and men is the Infinite
and Eternal Ruler--the living Providence of the world--and the lesser gods are the immortal
administrators of his Divine will throughout the lower creation. For ever at the head of the
universe there is an awful spiritual power; when Zeus appears with a distinct and positive
personality, he is himself subordinate to an authority which elsewhere is one with himself.
Wherever either he or the other gods are made susceptible of emotion, the Invisible is beyond
and above them. When Zeus is the personal father of Sarpedon, and his private love conflicts
with the law of the eternal order, though he has power to set aside the law, he dares not break
it; but in the midst of his immortality, and on his own awful throne, he weeps tears of blood
in ineffectual sorrow for his dying child. And again, there is a power supreme both over Zeus
and over Poseidon, of which Iris reminds the latter, when she is sent to rebuke him for his
disobedience to his brother. It is a law, she says, that the younger shall obey the elder,
and the Erinnys will revenge its breach even on a god.

But descending from the more difficult Pantheon among mankind, the Divine law of justice is
conceived as clearly as we in this day can conceive it. The supreme power is the same immortal
lover of justice and the same hater of iniquity; and justice means what we mean by justice,
and iniquity what we mean by iniquity. There is no diffidence, no scepticism on this matter;
the moral law is as sure as day and night, summer and winter. Thus in the sixteenth Iliad--

'When in the market-place men deal unjustly, and the rulers decree crooked judgment, not regarding
the fear of God,' God sends the storm, and the earthquake, and the tempest, as the executors
of his vengeance.

Again, Ulysses says--

'God looks upon the children of men, and punishes the wrong-doer.'

And Eumæus--

'The gods love not violence and wrong; but the man whose ways are righteous, him they honour.'

Even when as mere Olympians they put off their celestial nature, and mix in earthly strife,
and are thus laid open to earthly suffering, a mystery still hangs about them; Diomed, even
while he crosses the path of Ares, feels all the while 'that they are short-lived who contend
with the Immortals.' Ajax boasts that he will save himself in spite of heaven, and immediately
the wave dashes him upon the rocks. One light word escaped Ulysses in the excitement of his
escape from the Cyclops, which nine years of suffering hardly expiated.

The same spirit which teaches Christians that those who have no earthly friend have specially
a friend above to care for and to avenge them, taught the Ionians a proverb which appears again
and again in Homer, that the stranger and the poor man are the patrimony of God; and it taught
them, also, that sometimes men entertained the Immortals unawares. It was a faith, too, which
was more than words with them; for we hear of no vagrant acts or alien acts, and it was sacrilege
to turn away from the gate whoever asked its hospitality. Times are changed. The world was
not so crowded as it is now, and perhaps rogues were less abundant; but at any rate those antique
Greeks did what they said. We say what they said, while in the same breath we say, too, that
it is impossible to do it.

In every way, the dependence of man on a special heavenly Providence was a matter of sure and
certain conviction with them. Telemachus appeals to the belief in the Council at Ithaca. He
questions it at Pylos, and is at once rebuked by Athene. Both in Iliad and Odyssey to live
justly is the steady service which the gods require, and their favour as surely follows when
that service is paid, as a Nemesis sooner or later follows surely, too, on the evil-doers.

But without multiplying evidence, as we easily might, from every part of both Iliad and Odyssey,
the sceptical and the believing forms of thought and feeling on this very subject are made
points of dramatic contrast, to show off the opposition of two separate characters; and this
is clear proof that such thoughts and feelings must have been familiar to Homer's hearers:
if it were not so, his characters would have been without interest to his age--they would have
been individual, and not universal; and no expenditure of intellect, or passion, would have
made men care to listen to him. The two persons who throughout the Iliad stand out in relief
in contrast to each other are, of course, Hector and Achilles; and faith in God (as distinct
from a mere recognition of him) is as directly the characteristic of Hector as in Achilles
it is entirely absent. Both characters are heroic, but the heroism in them springs from opposite
sources. Both are heroic, because both are strong; but the strength of one is in himself, and
the strength of the other is in his faith. Hector is a patriot; Achilles does not know what
patriotism means;--Hector is full of tenderness and human affection; Achilles is self-enveloped.
Even his love for Patroclus is not pure, for Patroclus is as the moon to the sun of Achilles,
and Achilles sees his own glory reflected on his friend. They have both a forecast of their
fate; but Hector, in his great brave way, scoffs at omens; he knows that there is a special
providence in the fall of a sparrow, and defies augury. To do his duty is the only omen for
which Hector cares; and if death must be, he can welcome it like a gallant man, if it find
him fighting for his country. Achilles is moody, speculative, and subjective; he is too proud
to attempt an ineffectual resistance to what he knows to be inevitable, but he alternately
murmurs at it and scorns it. Till his passion is stirred by his friend's death, he seems equally
to disdain the greatness of life and the littleness of it; the glories of a hero are not worth
dying for; and like Solomon, and almost in Solomon's words, he complains that there is one
event to all--

    [Greek: En de iê timê ê men kakos êe kai esthlos.]

To gratify his own spleen, he will accept an inglorious age in Thessaly, in exchange for a
hero's immortality; as again in the end it is but to gratify his own wounded pride that he
goes out to brave a fate which he scorns while he knows that it will subdue him. Thus, Achilles
is the hero of the stern human, self-sufficing spirit, which does not deny or question destiny,
but seeing nothing in it except a cold, iron law, meets force with force, and holds up against
it an unbroken, unbending will. Human nature is at its best but a miserable business to him;
death and sorrow are its inevitable lot. As a brave man, he will not fear such things, but
he will not pretend to regard them as anything but detestable; and he comforts the old, weeping
king of Troy, whose age he was himself bringing down to the grave in sorrow, with philosophic
meditations on the vanity of all things, and a picture of Zeus mixing the elements of life
out of the two urns of good and evil.

Turn to Hector, and we turn from shadow into sunlight. Achilles is all self, Hector all self-forgetfulness;
Achilles all pride, Hector all modesty. The confidence of Achilles is in himself and in his
own arm; Hector knows (and the strongest expressions of the kind in all the Iliad are placed
pointedly in Hector's mouth) that there is no strength except from above. 'God's will,' he
says, 'is over all; he makes the strong man to fear, and gives the victory to the weak, if
it shall please him.' And at last, when he meets Achilles, he answers his bitter words, not
with a defiance, but calmly saying, 'I know that thou art mighty, and that my strength is far
less than thine; but these things lie in the will of the gods, and I, though weaker far than
thou, may yet take thy life from thee, if the Immortals choose to have it so.'

So far, then, on the general fact of Divine Providence, the feeling of Homer, and therefore
of his countrymen, is distinct. Both the great poems bearing his name speak in the same language.
But beyond the general fact, many questions rise in the application of the creed, and on one
of these (it is among several remarkable differences which seem to mark the Odyssey as of a
later age) there is a very singular discrepancy. In the Iliad, the life of man on this side
the grave is enough for the completion of his destiny--for his reward, if he lives nobly; for
his punishment, if he be base or wicked. Without repinings or scepticisms at the apparent successes
of bad men, the poet is contented with what he finds, accepting cheerfully the facts of life
as they are; it never seems to occur to him as seriously possible that a bad man could succeed
or a good one fail; and as the ways of Providence, therefore, require no vindicating, neither
his imagination nor his curiosity tempts him into penetrating the future. The house of Hades
is the long home to which men go when dismissed out of their bodies; but it is a dim, shadowy
place, of which we see nothing, and concerning which no conjectures are ventured. Achilles,
in his passion over Patroclus, cries out, that although the dead forget the dead in the halls
of the departed, yet that he will remember his friend; and through the Iliad there is nothing
clearer than these vague words to show with what hopes or fears the poet looked forward to
death. So far, therefore, his faith may seem imperfect; yet, perhaps, not the less noble because
imperfect; religious men in general are too well contented with the promise of a future life,
as of a scene where the seeming shortcomings of the Divine administration will be carried out
with larger equity. But whether imperfect or not, or whatever be the account of the omission,
the theory of Hades in the Odyssey is developed into far greater distinctness; the future is
still, indeed, shadowy, but it is no longer uncertain; there is the dreadful prison-house,
with the judge upon his throne--and the darker criminals are overtaken by the vengeance which
was delayed in life. The thin phantoms of the great ones of the past flit to and fro, mourning
wearily for their lost mortality, and feeding on its memory. And more than this, as if it were
beginning to be felt that something more was wanted after all to satisfy us with the completeness
of the Divine rule, we have a glimpse--it is but one, but it is like a ray of sunshine falling
in upon the darkness of the grave--'of the far-off Elysian fields where dwells Rhadamanthus
with the golden hair, where life is ever sweet, and sorrow is not, nor winter, nor any rain
or storm, and the never-dying zephyrs blow soft and cool from off the ocean.'

However vague the filling up of such a picture, the outline is correct to the best which has
been revealed even in Christianity, and it speaks nobly for the people among whom, even in
germ, such ideas could root themselves. But think what we will of their notions of the future,
the old Greek faith, considered as a practical and not a theological system, is truly admirable,
clear, rational, and moral; if it does not profess to deal with the mysteries of evil in the
heart, it is prompt and stern with them in their darker outward manifestations, and, as far
as it goes, as a guide in the common daily business of life, it scarcely leaves anything unsaid.

How far it went we shall see in the details of the life itself, the most important of which
in the eyes of a modern will be the social organisation; and when he looks for organisation,
he will be at once at a loss, for he will find the fact of government yet without defined form;--he
will find law, but without a public sword to enforce it; and a 'social machine' moving without
friction under the easy control of opinion. There are no wars of classes, no politics, no opposition
of interests, a sacred feeling of the will of the gods keeping every one in his proper subordination.
It was a sacred duty that the younger should obey the elder, that the servant should obey his
master, that property should be respected; in war, that the leader should be obeyed without
questioning; in peace, that public questions should be brought before the assembly of the people,
and settled quietly as the Council determined. In this assembly the prince presided, and beyond
this presidency his authority at home does not seem to have extended. Of course there was no
millennium in Ionia, and men's passions were pretty much what they are now. Without any organised
means of repressing crime when it did appear, the people were exposed to, and often suffered
under, extreme forms of violence--violence such as that of the suitors at Ithaca, or of Ægisthus
at Argos. On the other hand, what a state of cultivation it implies, what peace and comfort
in all classes, when society could hold together for a day with no more complete defence. And,
moreover, there are disadvantages in elaborate police systems. Self-reliance is one of the
highest virtues in which this world is intended to discipline us; and to depend upon ourselves
even for our own personal safety is a large element in moral training.

But not to dwell on this, and to pass to the way in which the men of those days employed themselves.

Our first boy's feeling with the Iliad is, that Homer is pre-eminently a poet of war; that
battles were his own passion, and tales of battles the delight of his listeners. His heroes
appear like a great fighting aristocracy, such as the after Spartans were, Homer himself like
another Tyrtæus, and the poorer occupations of life too menial for their notice or for his.
They seem to live for glory--the one glory worth caring for only to be won upon the battle-field,
and their exploits the one worthy theme of the poet's song. This is our boyish impression,
and, like other such, it is very different from the truth. If war had been a passion with the
Ionians, as it was with the Teutons and the Norsemen, the god of battles would have been supreme
in the Pantheon; and Zeus would scarcely have called Ares the most hateful spirit in Olympus--most
hateful, because of his delight in war and carnage. Mr. Carlyle looks forward to a chivalry
of labour. He rather wishes than expects that a time may come when the campaign of industry
against anarchic nature may gather into it those feelings of gallantry and nobleness which
have found their vent hitherto in fighting only. The modern man's work, Mr. Carlyle says, is
no longer to splinter lances or break down walls, but to break soil, to build barns and factories,
and to find a high employment for himself in what hitherto has been despised as degrading.
How to elevate labour--how to make it beautiful--how to enlist the spirit in it (for in no
other way can it be made humanly profitable), that is the problem which he looks wistfully
to the future to solve for us. He may look to the past as well as to the future; in the old
Ionia he will find all for which he wishes. The wise Ulysses built his own house, and carved
his own bed. Princes killed and cooked their own food. It was a holy work with them--their
way of saying grace for it; for they offered the animal in his death to the gods, and they
were not butchers, but sacrificing priests. Even a keeper of swine is called noble, and fights
like a hero; and the young princess of Phoeacia--the loveliest and gracefullest of Homer's
women--drove the clothes-cart and washed linen with her own beautiful hands. Not only was labour
free--for so it was among the early Romans; or honourable, so it was among the Israelites,--but
it was beautiful--beautiful in the artist's sense, as perhaps elsewhere it has never been.
In later Greece--in what we call the glorious period--toil had gathered about it its modern
crust of supposed baseness--it was left to slaves; and wise men, in their philosophic lecture-rooms,
spoke of it as unworthy of the higher specimens of cultivated humanity.

But Homer finds, in its most homely forms, fit illustrations for the most glorious achievements
of his heroes; and in every page we find, in simile or metaphor some common scene of daily
life worked out with elaborate beauty. What the popular poet chooses for his illustrations
are as good a measure as we can have of the popular feeling, and the images which he suggests
are, of course, what he knows his hearers will be pleased to dwell upon. There is much to be
said about this, and we shall return to it presently; in the meantime, we must not build on
indirect evidence. The designs on the shield of Achilles are, together, a complete picture
of Homer's microcosm; Homer surely never thought inglorious or ignoble what the immortal art
of Hephaistos condescended to imitate.

The first groups of figures point a contrast which is obviously intentional; and the significance
becomes sadly earnest when we remember who it was that was to bear the shield. The moral is
a very modern one, and the picture might be called by the modern name of Peace and War. There
are two cities, embodying in their condition the two ideas. In one, a happy wedding is going
forward; the pomp of the hymeneal procession is passing along the streets; the air is full
of music, and the women are standing at their doors to gaze. The other is in the terrors of
a siege; the hostile armies glitter under the walls, the women and children press into the
defence, and crowd to the battlements. In the first city, a quarrel rises, and wrong is made
right, not by violence and fresh wrong, but by the majesty of law and order. The heads of the
families are sitting gravely in the market-place, the cause is heard, the compensation set,
the claim awarded. Under the walls of the other city an ambush lies, like a wild beast on the
watch for its prey. The unsuspecting herdsmen pass on with their flocks to the waterside; the
spoilers spring from their hiding-place, and all is strife, and death, and horror, and confusion.
If there were other war-scenes on the shield, it might be doubted whether Homer intended so
strong a contrast as he executed; but fighting for its own sake was evidently held in slight
respect with him. The forms of life which were really beautiful to him follow in a series of
exquisite Rubens-like pictures: harvest scenes and village festivals; the ploughing and the
vintage, or the lion-hunt on the reedy margin of the river; and he describes them with a serene,
sunny enjoyment which no other old world art or poetry gives us anything in the least resembling.
Even we ourselves, in our own pastorals, are struggling with but half success, after what Homer
entirely possessed. What a majesty he has thrown into his harvest scene! The yellow corn falling,
the boys following to gather up the large arms-full as they drop behind the reapers; in the
distance a banquet preparing under the trees; in the centre, in the midst of his workmen, the
king sitting in mellow silence, sceptre in hand, looking on with gladdened heart. Again we
see the ploughmen, unlike what are to be seen in our corn-grounds, turning their teams at the
end of the furrow, and attendants standing ready with the wine-cup, to hand to them as they
pass. Homer had seen these things, or he would not have sung of them; and princes and nobles
might have shared such labour without shame, when kings took part in it, and gods designed
it, and the divine Achilles bore its image among his insignia in the field.

Analogous to this, and as part of the same feeling, is that intense enjoyment of natural scenery,
so keen in Homer, and of which the Athenian poets show not a trace; as, for instance, in that
night landscape by the sea, finished off in a few lines only, but so exquisitely perfect! The
broad moon, gleaming through the mist as it parts suddenly from off the sky; the crags and
headlands, and soft wooded slopes, shining out in the silver light, and earth and sea transformed
into fairy land.

We spoke of Homer's similes as illustrative of the Ionic feelings about war. War, of course,
was glorious to him--but war in a glorious cause. Wars there were--wars in plenty, as there
have been since, and as it is like there will be for some time to come; and a just war, of
all human employments, is the one which most calls out whatever nobleness there is in man.
It was the thing itself, the actual fighting and killing, as apart from the heroism for which
it makes opportunities, for which we said that he showed no taste. His manner shows that he
felt like a cultivated man, and not like a savage. His spirit stirs in him as he goes out with
his hero to the battle; but there is no drunken delight in blood; we never hear of warriors
as in that grim Hall of the Nibelungen, quenching their thirst in the red stream; never anything
of that fierce exultation in carnage with which the war poetry of so many nations, late and
old, is crimsoned. Everything, on the contrary, is contrived so as to soften the merely horrible,
and fix our interest only on what is grand or beautiful. We are never left to dwell long together
on scenes of death, and when the battle is at its fiercest, our minds are called off by the
rapid introduction (either by simile or some softer turn of human feeling) of other associations,
not contrived, as an inferior artist would contrive, to deepen our emotions, but to soften
and relieve them. Two warriors meet, and exchange their high words of defiance; we hear the
grinding of the spear-head, as it pierces shield and breast-plate, and the crash of the armour,
as this or that hero falls. But at once, instead of being left at his side to see him bleed,
we are summoned away to the soft water meadow, the lazy river, the tall poplar, now waving
its branches against the sky, now lying its length along in the grass beside the water, and
the woodcutter with peaceful industry labouring and lopping at it.

In the thick of the universal mêlée, when the stones and arrows are raining on the combatants,
and some furious hailstorm is the slightest illustration with which we should expect him to
heighten the effect of the human tempest, so sure Homer is that he has painted the thing itself
in its own intense reality, that his simile is the stillest phenomenon in all nature--a stillness
of activity, infinitely expressive of the density of the shower of missiles, yet falling like
oil on water on the ruffled picture of the battle; the snow descending in the still air, covering
first hills, then plains and fields and farmsteads; covering the rocks down to the very water's
edge, and clogging the waves as they roll in. Again, in that fearful death-wrestle at the Grecian
wall, when gates and battlements are sprinkled over with blood, and neither Greeks nor Trojans
can force their way against the other, we have, first, as an image of the fight itself, two
men in the field, with measuring rods, disputing over a land boundary; and for the equipoise
of the two armies, the softest of all home scenes, a poor working woman weighing out her wool
before weaving it, to earn a scanty subsistence for herself and for her children. Of course
the similes are not all of this kind; it would be monotonous if they were; but they occur often
enough to mark their meaning. In the direct narrative, too, we see the same tendency. Sarpedon
struck through the thigh is borne off the field, the long spear trailing from the wound, and
there is too much haste to draw it out. Hector flies past him and has no time to speak; all
is dust, hurry, and confusion. Even Homer can only pause for a moment, but in three lines he
lays the wounded hero under a tree, he brings a dear friend to his side, and we refresh ourselves
in a beautiful scene, when the lance is taken out, and Sarpedon faints, and comes slowly back
to life, with the cool air fanning him. We may look in vain through the Nibelungen Lied for
anything like this. The Swabian poet can be tender before the battle, but in the battle itself
his barbaric nature is too strong for him, and he scents nothing but blood. In the Iliad, on
the contrary, the very battles of the gods, grand and awful as they are, relieve rather than
increase the human horror. In the magnificent scene, where Achilles, weary with slaughter,
pauses on the bank of the Scamander, and the angry river god, whose course is checked by the
bodies of the slain, swells up to revenge them and destroy him, the natural and the supernatural
are so strangely blended, that when Poseidon lights the forest, and god meets god and element
meets element, the convulsion is too tremendous to enhance the fierceness of Achilles; it concentrates
the interest on itself, and Achilles and Hector, flying Trojan and pursuing Greek, for the
time melt out and are forgotten.

We do not forget that there is nothing of this kind, no relief, no softening, in the great
scene at the conclusion of the Odyssey. All is stern enough and terrible enough there; more
terrible, if possible, because more distinct, than its modern counterpart in Criemhildas Hall.
But there is an obvious reason for this, and it does not make against what we have been saying.
It is not delight in slaughter, but it is the stern justice of revenge which we have here;
not, as in the Iliad, hero meeting hero, but the long crime receiving at last its Divine punishment;
the breaking of the one storm, which from the beginning has been slowly and awfully gathering.

With Homer's treatment of a battle-field, and as illustrating the conclusion which we argue
from it, we are tempted to draw parallels from two modern poets--one a German, who was taken
away in the morning of his life; the other, the most gifted of modern Englishmen. Each of these
two has attempted the same subject, and the treatment in each case embodies, in a similar manner,
modern ways of thinking about it.

The first is from the 'Albigenses' of young Lenau, who has since died lunatic, we have heard,
as he was not unlikely to have died with such thoughts in him. It is the eve of one of those
terrible struggles at Toulouse, and the poet's imagination is hanging at moon-rise over the
scene. 'The low broad field scattered over thick with corpses, all silent, dead,--the last
sob spent,'--the priest's thanksgiving for the Catholic victory having died into an echo, and
only the 'vultures crying their Te Deum laudamus.'

    Hat Gott der Herr den Körperstoff erschaffen,
    Hat ihn hervorgebracht ein böser Geist,
    Darüber stritten sie mit allen Waffen
    Und werden von den Vögeln nun gespeist,
    Die, ohne ihren Ursprung nachzufragen,
    Die Körper da sich lassen wohl behagen.

'Was it God the Lord who formed the substance of their bodies? or did some evil spirit bring
it forth? It was for this with all their might they fought, and now they are devoured there
by the wild birds, who sit gorging merrily over their carrion, without asking from whence it came.'

In Homer, as we saw, the true hero is master over death--death has no terror for him. He meets
it, if it is to be, calmly and proudly, and then it is over; whatever offensive may follow
after it, is concealed, or at least passed lightly over. Here, on the contrary, everything
most offensive is dwelt upon with an agonising intensity, and the triumph of death is made
to extend, not over the body only, but over the soul, whose heroism it turns to mockery. The
cause in which a man dies, is what can make his death beautiful; but here nature herself, in
her stern, awful way, is reading her sentence over the cause itself as a wild and frantic dream.
We ought to be revolted--doubly revolted, one would think, and yet we are not so; instead of
being revolted, we are affected with a sense of vast, sad magnificence. Why is this? Because
we lose sight of the scene, or lose the sense of its horror, in the tragedy of the spirit.
It is the true modern tragedy; the note which sounds through Shakespeare's 'Sonnets,' through
'Hamlet,' through 'Faust;' all the deeper trials of the modern heart might be gathered out
of those few lines; the sense of wasted nobleness--nobleness spending its energies upon what
time seems to be pronouncing no better than a dream--at any rate, misgivings, sceptic and distracting;
yet the heart the while, in spite of the uncertainty of the issue, remaining true at least
to itself. If the spirit of the Albigensian warriors had really broken down, or if the poet
had pointed his lesson so as to say, Truth is a lie; faith is folly; eat, drink, and die,--then
his picture would have been revolting; but the noble spirit remains, though it is borne down
and trifled with by destiny, and therefore it is not revolting, but tragic.

Far different from this--as far inferior in tone to Lenau's lines, as it exceeds them in beauty
of workmanship--is the well-known picture of the scene under the wall in the Siege of Corinth:--

    He saw the lean dogs beneath the wall
    Hold o'er the dead their carnival;
    Gorging and growling o'er carcass and limb;
    They were too busy to bark at him!
    From a Tartar's skull they had stripp'd the flesh,
    As ye peel the fig when its fruit is fresh;
    And their white tusks crunch'd o'er the whiter skull,
    As it slipp'd through their jaws when their edge grew dull,
    As they lazily mumbled the bones of the dead,
    When they scarce could rise from the spot where they fed;
    So well had they broken a lingering fast
    With those who had fallen for that night's repast.
    And Alp knew, by the turbans that roll'd on the sand,
    The foremost of these were the best of his band:

      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .

    The scalps were in the wild dog's maw,
    The hair was tangled round his jaw.
    Close by the shore, on the edge of the gulf,
    There sate a vulture flapping a wolf,
    Who had stolen from the hills, but kept away,
    Scared by the dogs, from the human prey;
    But he seized on his share of a steed that lay,
    Pick'd by the birds, on the sands of the bay.

For a parallel to the horribleness of this wonderfully painted scene we need not go to the
Nibelungen, for we shall find nothing like it there: we must go back to the carved slabs which
adorned the banquet halls of the Assyrian kings, where the foul birds hover over the stricken
fields, and trail from their talons the entrails of the slain.

And for what purpose does Byron introduce these frightful images? Was it in contrast to the
exquisite moonlight scene which tempts the renegade out of his tent? Was it to bring his mind
into a fit condition to be worked upon by the vision of Francesca? It does but mar and untune
the softening influences of nature, which might have been rendered more powerful, perhaps,
by some slight touch to remind him of his past day's work, but are blotted out and paralysed
by such a mass of horrors.

To go back to Homer.

We must omit for the present any notice of the domestic pictures, of which there are so many,
in the palaces of Ulysses, of Nestor, or of Alcinous; of the games, so manly, yet, in point
of refinement, so superior even to those of our own middle ages; of the supreme good of life
as the Greeks conceived it, and of the arts by which they endeavoured to realise that good.
It is useless to notice such things briefly, and the detail would expand into a volume. But
the impression which we gather from them is the same which we have gathered all along--that
if the proper aim of all human culture be to combine, in the highest measure in which they
are compatible, the two elements of refinement and of manliness, then Homer's age was cultivated
to a degree the like of which the earth has not witnessed since. There was more refinement
under Pericles, as there is more in modern London and Paris; but there was, and there is, infinitely
more vice. There was more fierceness (greater manliness there never was) in the times of feudalism.
But take it for all in all, and in a mere human sense, apart from any other aspect of the world
which is involved in Christianity, it is difficult to point to a time when life in general
was happier, and the character of man set in a more noble form. If we have drawn the picture
with too little shadow, let it be allowed for. The shadow was there, doubtless, though we see
it only in a few dark spots. The Margites would have supplied the rest, but the Margites, unhappily
for us, is lost. Even heroes have their littlenesses, and Comedy is truer to the details of
littleness than Tragedy or Epic. The grand is always more or less ideal, and the elevation
of a moment is sublimed into the spirit of a life. Comedy, therefore, is essential for the
representing of men; and there were times, doubtless, when the complexion of Agamemnon's greatness
was discoloured, like Prince Henry's, by remembering, when he was weary, that poor creature--small
beer--i.e. if the Greeks had got any.

A more serious discoloration, however, we are obliged to say that we find in Homer himself,
in the soil or taint which even he is obliged to cast over the position of women. In the Iliad,
where there is no sign of male slavery, women had already fallen under the chain, and though
there does not seem to have been any practice of polygamy, the female prisoners fell, as a
matter of course, into a more degraded position. It is painful, too, to observe that their
own feelings followed the practice of the times, and that they composed themselves to bear
without reluctance whatever their destiny forced upon them. When Priam ventured into the Grecian
camp for Hector's body, and stood under the roof of Achilles, he endured to do what, as he
says, no mortal father had ever yet endured--to give his hand to his son's destroyer. Briseis,
whose bed was made desolate by the hand of the same Achilles, finds it her one greatest consolation,
that the conqueror stoops to choose her to share his own. And when Hector in his last sad parting
scene anticipates a like fate for his own Andromache, it is not with the revolted agony of
horror with which such a possible future would be regarded by a modern husband; nor does Andromache,
however bitterly she feels the danger, protest, as a modern wife would do, that there was no
fear for her--that death by sorrow's hand, or by her own, would preserve her to rejoin him.

Nor, again, was unfaithfulness, of however long duration, conclusively fatal against a wife;
for we meet Helen, after a twenty years' elopement, again the quiet, hospitable mistress in
the Spartan palace, entertaining her husband's guests with an easy matronly dignity, and not
afraid even in Menelaus's presence to allude to the past--in strong terms of self-reproach,
indeed, but with nothing like despairing prostration. Making the worst of this, however, yet
even in this respect the Homeric Greeks were better than their contemporaries in Palestine;
and on the whole there was, perhaps, no time anterior to Christianity when women held a higher
place, or the relation between wife and husband was of a more free and honourable kind.

For we have given but one side of the picture. When a woman can be the theme of a poet, her
nature cannot be held in slight esteem; and there is no doubt that Penelope is Homer's heroine
in the Odyssey. One design, at least, which Homer had before him was to vindicate the character
of the virtuous matron against the stain which Clytemnestra had inflicted on it. Clytemnestra
has every advantage, Penelope every difficulty: the trial of the former lasted only half as
long as that of the latter. Agamemnon in leaving her gave herself and his house in charge to
a divine [Greek: aoidos], a heaven-inspired prophet, who should stand between her and temptation,
and whom she had to murder before her passion could have its way. Penelope had to bear up alone
for twenty weary years, without a friend, without a counsellor, and with even a child whose
constancy was wavering. It is obvious that Homer designed this contrast. The story of the Argos
tragedy is told again and again. The shade of Agamemnon himself forebodes a fate like his own
to Ulysses. It is Ulysses's first thought when he wakes from his sleep to find himself in his
own land; and the scene in Hades, in the last book, seems only introduced that the husband
of Clytemnestra may meet the shades of the Ithacan suitors, and learn, in their own tale of
the sad issue of their wooing, how far otherwise it had fared with Ulysses than with himself.
Women, therefore, according to Homer, were as capable of heroic virtue as men were, and the
ideal of this heroism is one to which we have scarcely added.

For the rest, there is no trace of any oriental seraglio system. The sexes lived together in
easy unaffected intercourse. The ladies appeared in society naturally and gracefully, and their
chief occupations were household matters, care of clothes and linen, and other domestic arrangements.
When a guest came, they prepared his dressing-room, settled the bath, and arranged the convenience
of his toilet-table. In their leisure hours, they were to be found, as now, in the hall or
the saloon, and their work-table contained pretty much the same materials. Helen was winding
worsted as she entertained Telemachus, and Andromache worked roses in very modern cross-stitch.
A literalist like Mr. Mackay, who finds out that the Israelites were cannibals, from such expressions
as 'drinking the blood of the slain,' might discover, perhaps, a similar unpleasant propensity
in an excited wish of Hecuba, that she might eat the heart of Achilles; but in the absence
of other evidence, it is unwise in either case to press a metaphor; and the food of ladies,
wherever Homer lets us see it, is very innocent cake and wine, with such fruits as were in
season. To judge by Nausicaa, their breeding must have been exquisite. Nausicaa standing still,
when the uncouth figure of Ulysses emerged from under the wood, all sea slime and nakedness,
and only covered with a girdle of leaves--standing still to meet him when the other girls ran
away tittering and terrified, is the perfect conception of true female modesty; and in the
whole scene between them, Homer shows the most finished understanding of the delicate and tremulous
relations which occur occasionally in the accidents of intercourse between highly cultivated
men and women, and which he could only have learnt by living in a society where men and women
met and felt in the way which he has described.

Who, then, was Homer? What was he? When did he live? History has absolutely nothing to answer.
His poems were not written; for the art of writing (at any rate for a poet's purpose) was unknown
to him. There is a vague tradition that the Iliad, and the Odyssey, and a comic poem called
the Margites, were composed by an Ionian whose name was Homer, about four hundred years before
Herodotus, or in the ninth century B.C. We know certainly that these poems were preserved by
the Rhapsodists, or popular reciters, who repeated them at private parties or festivals, until
writing came into use, and they were fixed in a less precarious form. A later story was current,
that we owe the collection to Pisistratus; but an exclusive claim for him was probably only
Athenian conceit. It is incredible that men of genius in Homer's own land--Alcæus, for instance--should
have left such a work to be done by a foreigner. But this is really all which is known; and
the creation of the poems lies in impenetrable mystery. Nothing remains to guide us, therefore,
except internal evidence (strangely enough, it is the same with Shakespeare), and it has led
to wild conclusions: yet the wildest is not without its use; it has commonly something to rest
upon; and internal evidence is only really valuable when outward testimony has been sifted
to the uttermost. The present opinion seems to be, that each poem is unquestionably the work
of one man; but whether both poems are the work of the same is yet sub judice. The Greeks believed
they were; and that is much. There are remarkable points of resemblance in style, yet not greater
than the resemblances in the 'Two Noble Kinsmen' and in the 'Yorkshire Tragedy' to 'Macbeth'
and 'Hamlet;' and there are more remarkable points of non-resemblance, which deepen upon us
the more we read. On the other hand, tradition is absolute. If the style of the Odyssey is
sometimes unlike the Iliad, so is one part of the Iliad sometimes unlike another. It is hard
to conceive a genius equal to the creation of either Iliad or Odyssey to have existed without
leaving at least a legend of his name; and the difficulty of criticising style accurately in
an old language will be appreciated by those who have tried their hand in their own language
with the disputed plays of Shakespeare. There are heavy difficulties every way; and we shall
best conclude our own subject by noting down briefly the most striking points of variation
of which as yet no explanation has been attempted. We have already noticed several: the non-appearance
of male slavery in the Iliad which is common in the Odyssey; the notion of a future state;
and perhaps a fuller cultivation in the female character. Andromache is as delicate as Nausicaa,
but she is not as grand as Penelope; and in marked contrast to the feeling expressed by Briseis,
is the passage where the grief of Ulysses over the song of Demodocus is compared to the grief
of a young wife flinging herself on the yet warm body of her husband, and looking forward to
her impending slavery with feelings of horror and repulsion. But these are among the slightest
points in which the two poems are dissimilar. Not only are there slaves in the Odyssey, but
there are [Greek: Thêtes], or serfs, an order with which we are familiar in later times, but
which again are not in the Iliad. In the Odyssey the Trojans are called [Greek: epibêtores
hippôn], which must mean riders. In the Iliad, horses are never ridden; they are always in harness.

Wherever in the Odyssey the Trojan war is alluded to (and it is very often), in no one case
is the allusion to anything which is mentioned in the Iliad. We hear of the wooden horse, the
taking of Troy, the death of Achilles, the contention of Ulysses with Ajax for his arms. It
might be said that the poet wished to supply afterwards indirectly what he had left in the
Iliad untold; but again, this is impossible, for a very curious reason. The Iliad opens with
the wrath of Achilles, which caused such bitter woe to the Achaians. In the Odyssey it is still
the wrath of Achilles; but singularly not with Agamemnon, but with Ulysses. Ulysses to the
author of the Odyssey was a far grander person at Troy than he appears in the Iliad. In the
latter poem he is great, but far from one of the greatest; in the other, he is evidently the
next to Achilles; and it seems almost certain that whoever wrote the Odyssey was working from
some other legend of the war. There were a thousand versions of it. The tale of Ilium was set
to every lyre in Greece, and the relative position of the heroes was doubtless changed according
to the sympathies or the patriotism of the singer. The character of Ulysses is much stronger
in the Odyssey; and even when the same qualities are attributed to him--his soft-flowing tongue,
his cunning, and his eloquence--they are held in very different estimation. The Homer of the
Iliad has little liking for a talker. Thersites is his pattern specimen of such; and it is
the current scoff at unready warriors to praise their father's courage, and then to add--

    [Greek:
                                alla ton huion
    geinato heio cherêa machê, agorê de t' ameinô.]

But the Phoeacian Lord who ventured to reflect, in the Iliad style, on the supposed unreadiness
of Ulysses, is taught a different notion of human excellence. Ulysses tells him that he is
a fool. 'The gods,' Ulysses says, 'do not give all good things to all men, and often a man
is made unfair to look upon, but over his ill favour they fling, like a garland, a power of
lovely speech, and the people delight to look on him. He speaks with modest dignity, and he
shines among the multitude. As he walks through the city, men gaze on him as on a god.'

Differences like these, however, are far from decisive. The very slightest external evidence
would weigh them all down together. Perhaps the following may be of more importance:--

In both poems there are 'questionings of destiny,' as the modern phrase goes. The thing which
we call human life is looked in the face--this little chequered island of lights and shadows,
in the middle of an ocean of darkness; and in each we see the sort of answer which the poet
finds for himself, and which might be summed up briefly in the last words of Ecclesiastes,
'Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.' But the world bears
a different aspect, and the answer looks different in its application. In the Iliad, in spite
of the gloom of Achilles, and his complaint of the double urn, the sense of life, on the whole,
is sunny and cheerful. There is no yearning for anything beyond--nothing vague, nothing mystical.
The earth, the men, the gods, have all a palpable reality about them. From first to last, we
know where we are, and what we are about. In the Odyssey we are breathing another atmosphere.
The speculations on the moral mysteries of our being hang like a mist over us from the beginning
to the end; and the cloud from time to time descends on the actors, and envelopes them with
a preternatural halo. The poet evidently dislikes the expression of 'suffering being the lot
of mortals,' as if it had been abused already for ungodly purposes. In the opening of the first
book, Zeus reproves the folly of mortal men for casting the blame upon the gods, when they
themselves, in spite of all the gods can do to save them, persist in their own perverseness;
and we never know as we go on, so fast we pass from one to the other, when we are among mere
human beings, and when among the spiritual or the mystical. Those sea-nymphs, those cannibals,
those enchantresses, if intended to be real, are neither mortal nor divine--at any rate, like
nothing divine which we had seen in Olympus, or on the plains of Ilium; and at times there
is a strangeness even in the hero himself. Sometimes it is Ulysses painfully toiling his way
home across the unknown ocean; sometimes it is we that are Ulysses, and that unknown ocean
is the life across which we are wandering, with too many Circes, and Sirens, and 'Isles of
Error' in our path. In the same spirit death is no longer the end; and on every side long vistas
seem to stretch away into the infinite, peopled with shadowy forms.

But, as if this palpable initiation into the unseen were still insufficient or unconvincing,
the common ground on which we are treading sometimes shakes under us, and we feel as Humboldt
describes himself to have felt at the first shock of an earthquake. Strange pieces of mysterious
wildness are let fall in our way, coming suddenly on us like spectres, and vanishing without
explanation or hint of their purpose. What are those Phoeacian ships meant for, which required
neither sail nor oar, but of their own selves read the hearts of those they carried, and bore
them wherever they would go?--or the wild end of the ship which carried Ulysses home?--or that
terrible piece of second sight in the Hall at Ithaca, for which the seer was brought from Pylos?--or
those islands, one of which is for ever wasting while another is born into being to complete
the number?--or those mystical sheep and oxen, which knew neither age nor death, nor ever had
offspring born to them, and whose flesh upon the spits began to crawl and bellow?--or Helen
singing round the horse inside the Trojan walls, when every Grecian chief's heart fainted in
him as he thought he heard the voice of his own dear wife far away beyond the sea?

In the far gates of the Loestrygones, 'where such a narrow rim of night divided day from day,
that a man who needed not sleep might earn a double hire, and the cry of the shepherd at evening
driving home his flock was heard by the shepherd going out in the morning to pasture,' we have,
perhaps, some tale of a Phoenician mariner, who had wandered into the North Seas, and seen
'the Norway sun set into sunrise.' But what shall we say to that Syrian isle, 'where disease
is not, nor hunger, nor thirst, and where, when men grow old, Apollo comes with Artemis, and
slays them with his silver bow?' There is nothing in the Iliad like any of these stories.

Yet, when all is said, it matters little who wrote the poems. Each is so magnificent, that
to have written both could scarcely have increased the greatness of the man who had written
one; and if there were two Homers, the earth is richer by one more divine-gifted man than we
had known. After all, it is perhaps more easy to believe that the differences which we seem
to see arise from Homer's own choice of the material which best suited two works so different,
than that nature was so largely prodigal as to have created in one age and in one people two
such men; for whether one or two, the authors of the Iliad and the Odyssey stand alone with
Shakespeare far away above mankind.

FOOTNOTES:

[X] Fraser's Magazine, 1851.

[Y] Mackay's Progress of the Intellect.

THE LIVES OF THE SAINTS.

1850. We believe it to have been the realisation of the infinite loveliness and beauty of personal
purity. Is humanity crawling out of the cradle, or tottering into the grave?

FOOTNOTES:

[Z] Written in 1850.

REPRESENTATIVE MEN.

1850.

From St. Anselm to Mr. Emerson, from the 'Acta Sanctorum' to the 'Representative Men;' so far
in seven centuries we have travelled. The races of the old Ideals have become extinct like
the Preadamite Saurians; and here are our new pattern specimens on which we are to look, and
take comfort and encouragement to ourselves.

The philosopher, the mystic, the poet, the sceptic, the man of the world, the writer; these
are the present moral categories, the summa genera of human greatness as Mr. Emerson arranges
them. From every point of view an exceptionable catalogue. They are all thinkers, to begin
with, except one: and thought is but a poor business compared to action. Saints did not earn
canonisation by the number of their folios; and if the necessities of the times are now driving
our best men out of action into philosophy and verse-making, so much the worse for them and
so much the worse for the world. The one pattern actor, 'the man of the world,' is Napoleon
Bonaparte, not in the least a person, as we are most of us at present feeling, whose example
the world desires to see followed. Mr. Emerson would have done better if he had kept to his
own side of the Atlantic. He is paying his own countrymen but a poor compliment by coming exclusively
to Europe for his heroes; and he would be doing us in Europe more real good by a great deal
if he would tell us something of the backwoodsmen in Kentucky and Ohio. However, to let that
pass; it is not our business here to quarrel either with him or his book; and the book stands
at the head of our article rather because it presents a very noticeable deficiency of which
its writer is either unaware or careless.

These six predicables, as the logician would call them, what are they? Are they ultimate genera
refusing to be classified farther? or is there any other larger type of greatness under which
they fall? In the naturalist's catalogue, poet, sceptic, and the rest will all be classified
as men--man being an intelligible entity. Has Mr. Emerson any similar clear idea of great man
or good man? If so, where is he? what is he? It is desirable that we should know. Men will
not get to heaven because they lie under one or other of these predicables. What is that supreme
type of character which is in itself good or great, unqualified with any farther differentia?
Is there any such? and if there be, where is the representative of this? It may be said that
the generic man exists nowhere in an ideal unity--that if considered at all, he must be abstracted
from the various sorts of men, black and white, tame or savage. So if we would know what a
great man or a good man means, we must look to some specific line in which he is good, and
abstract our general idea. And that is very well, provided we know what we are about; provided
we understand, in our abstracting, how to get the essential idea distinctly out before ourselves,
without entangling ourselves in the accidents. Human excellence, after all the teaching of
the last eighteen hundred years, ought to be something palpable by this time. It is the one
thing which we are all taught to seek and to aim at forming in ourselves; and if representative
men are good for anything at all, it can only be, not as they represent merely curious combinations
of phenomena, but as they illustrate us in a completely realised form, what we are, every single
one of us, equally interested in understanding. It is not the 'great man' as 'man of the world'
that we care for, but the 'man of the world' as a 'great man'--which is a very different thing.
Having to live in this world, how to live greatly here is the question for us; not, how, being
great, we can cast our greatness in a worldly mould. There may be endless successful 'men of
the world' who are mean or little enough all the while; and the Emersonian attitude will confuse
success with greatness, or turn our ethics into a chaos of absurdity. So it is with everything
which man undertakes and works in. Life has grown complicated; and for one employment in old
times there are a hundred now. But it is not they which are anything, but we. We are the end,
they are but the means, the material--like the clay, or the marble, or the bronze in which
the sculptor carves his statue. The form is everything; and what is the form? From nursery
to pulpit every teacher rings on the one note--be good, be noble, be men. What is goodness
then? and what is nobleness? and where are the examples? We do not say that there are none.
God forbid! That is not what we are meaning at all. If the earth had ceased to bear men pleasant
in God's sight, it would have passed away like the cities in the plain. But who are they? which
are they? how are we to know them? They are our leaders in this life campaign of ours. If we
could see them, we would follow them, and save ourselves many and many a fall, and many an
enemy whom we could have avoided, if we had known of him. It cannot be that the thing is so
simple, when names of highest reputation are wrangled over, and such poor counterfeits are
mobbed with applauding followers. In art and science we can detect the charlatan, but in life
we do not recognise him so readily--we do not recognise the charlatan, and we do not recognise
the true man. Rajah Brooke is alternately a hero or a pirate; and fifty of the best men among
us are likely to have fifty opinions on the merits of Elizabeth or Cromwell.

But surely, men say, the thing is simple. The commandments are simple. It is not that people
do not know, but that they will not act up to what they know. We hear a great deal of this
in sermons, and elsewhere; and of course, as everybody's experience will tell him, there is
a great deal too much reason why we should hear of it. But there are two sorts of duty, positive
and negative; what we ought to do, and what we ought not to do. To the latter of these, conscience
is pretty much awake; but by cunningly concentrating its attention on one side of the matter,
conscience has contrived to forget altogether that any other sort exists at all. 'Doing wrong'
is breaking a commandment which forbids us to do some particular thing. That is all the notion
which in common language is attached to the idea. Do not kill, steal, lie, swear, commit adultery,
or break the Lord's day--these are the commandments; very simple, doubtless, and easy to be
known. But, after all, what are they? They are no more than the very first and rudimental conditions
of goodness. Obedience to these is not more than a small part of what is required of us; it
is no more than the foundation on which the superstructure of character is to be raised. To
go through life, and plead at the end of it that we have not broken any of these commandments,
is but what the unprofitable servant did, who kept his talent carefully unspent, and yet was
sent to outer darkness for his uselessness. Suppose these commandments obeyed--what then? It
is but a small portion of our time which, we will hope, is spent in resisting temptation to
break them. What are we to do with the rest of it? Or suppose them (and this is a high step
indeed) resolved into love of God and love of our neighbour. Suppose we know that it is our
duty to love our neighbour as ourselves. What are we to do, then, for our neighbour, besides
abstaining from doing him injury? The saints knew very well what they were to do; but our duties,
we suppose, lie in a different direction; and it does not appear that we have found them. 'We
have duties so positive to our neighbour,' says Bishop Butler, 'that if we give more of our
time and of our attention to ourselves and our own matters than is our just due, we are taking
what is not ours, and are guilty of fraud.' What does Bishop Butler mean? It is easy to answer
generally. In detail, it is not only difficult, it is impossible to answer at all. The modern
world says--'Mind your own business, and leave others to take care of theirs;' and whoever
among us aspires to more than the negative abstaining from wrong, is left to his own guidance.
There is no help for him, no instruction, no modern ideal which shall be to him what the heroes
were to the young Greek or Roman, or the martyrs to the middle age Christian. There is neither
track nor footprint in the course which he will have to follow, while, as in the old fairy
tale, the hillside which he is climbing is strewed with black stones mocking at him with their
thousand voices. We have no moral criterion, no idea, no counsels of perfection; and surely
this is the reason why education is so little prosperous with us; because the only education
worth anything is the education of character, and we cannot educate a character unless we have
some notion of what we would form. Young men, as we know, are more easily led than driven.
It is a very old story that to forbid this and that (so curious and contradictory is our nature)
is to stimulate a desire to do it. But place before a boy a figure of a noble man; let the
circumstances in which he has earned his claim to be called noble be such as the boy himself
sees round himself; let him see this man rising over his temptation, and following life victoriously
and beautifully forward, and, depend on it, you will kindle his heart as no threat of punishment
here or anywhere will kindle it.

People complain of the sameness in the 'Lives of the Saints.' It is that very sameness which
is the secret of their excellence. There is a sameness in the heroes of the 'Iliad;' there
is a sameness in the historical heroes of Greece and Rome. A man is great as he contends best
with the circumstances of his age, and those who fight best with the same circumstances, of
course grow like each other. And so with our own age--if we really could have the lives of
our best men written for us (and written well, by men who knew what to look for, and what it
was on which they should insist), they would be just as like as each other too, and would for
that reason be of such infinite usefulness. They would not be like the old Ideals. Times are
changed; they were one thing, we have to be another--their enemies are not ours. There is a
moral metempsychosis in the change of era, and probably no lineament of form or feature remains
identical; yet surely not because less is demanded of us--not less, but more--more, as we are
again and again told on Sundays from the pulpits; if the preachers would but tell us in what
that 'more' consists. The loftiest teaching we ever hear is, that we are to work in the spirit
of love; but we are still left to generalities, while action divides and divides into ever
smaller details. It is as if the Church said to the painter or to the musician whom she was
training, you must work in the spirit of love and in the spirit of truth; and then adding,
that the Catholic painting or the Catholic music was what he was not to imitate, supposed that
she had sent him out into the world equipped fully for his enterprise.

And what comes of this? Emersonianism has come, modern hagiology has come, and Ainsworth novels
and Bulwer novels, and a thousand more unclean spirits. We have cast out the Catholic devil,
and the Puritan has swept the house and garnished it; but as yet we do not see any symptoms
showing of a healthy incoming tenant, and there may be worse states than Catholicism. If we
wanted proof of the utter spiritual disintegration into which we have fallen, it would be enough
that we have no biographies. We do not mean that we have no written lives of our fellow-creatures;
there are enough and to spare. But not any one is there in which the ideal tendencies of this
age can be discerned in their true form; not one, or hardly any one, which we could place in
a young man's hands, with such warm confidence as would let us say of it--'Read that; there
is a man--such a man as you ought to be; read it, meditate on it; see what he was, and how
he made himself what he was, and try and be yourself like him.' This, as we saw lately, is
what Catholicism did. It had its one broad type of perfection, which in countless thousands
of instances was perpetually reproducing itself--a type of character not especially belonging
to any one profession; it was a type to which priest and layman, knight or bishop, king or
peasant, might equally aspire: men of all sorts aspired to it, and men of all sorts attained
to it; and as fast as she had realised them (so to say), the Church took them in her arms,
and held them up before the world as fresh and fresh examples of victory over the devil. This
is what that Church was able to do, and it is what we cannot do; and yet, till we can learn
to do it, no education which we can offer has any chance of prospering. Perfection is not easy;
it is of all things most difficult; difficult to know and difficult to practise. Rules of life
will not do; even if our analysis of life in all its possible forms were as complete as it
is in fact rudimentary, they would still be inefficient. The philosophy of the thing might
be understood, but the practice would be as far off as ever. In life, as in art, and as in
mechanics, the only profitable teaching is the teaching by example. Your mathematician, or
your man of science, may discourse excellently on the steam engine, yet he cannot make one;
he cannot make a bolt or a screw. The master workman in the engine-room does not teach his
apprentice the theory of expansion, or of atmospheric pressure; he guides his hand upon the
turncock, he practises his eye upon the index, and he leaves the science to follow when the
practice has become mechanical. So it is with everything which man learns to do; and yet for
the art of arts, the trade of trades, for life, we content ourselves with teaching our children
the catechism and the commandments; we preach them sermons on the good of being good, and the
evil of being evil; in our higher education we advance to the theory of habit and the freedom
of the will; and then, when failure follows failure, ipsa experientia reclamante, we hug ourselves
with a complacent self-satisfied reflection that the fault is not ours, that all which men
could do we have done. The freedom of the will!--as if a blacksmith would ever teach a boy
to make a horseshoe, by telling him he could make one if he chose.

In setting out on our journey through life, we are like strangers set to find their way across
a difficult and entangled country. It is not enough for us to know that others have set out
as we set out, that others have faced the lions in the path and overcome them, and have arrived
at last at the journey's end. Such a knowledge may give us heart--but the help it gives is
nothing beyond teaching us that the difficulties are not insuperable. It is the track, which
these others, these pioneers of godliness, have beaten in, that we cry to have shown us; not
a mythic 'Pilgrim's Progress,' but a real path trodden in by real men. Here is a crag, and
there is but one spot where it can be climbed; here is a morass or a river, and there is a
bridge in one place, and a ford in another. There are robbers in this forest, and wild beasts
in that; the tracks cross and recross, and, as in the old labyrinth, only one will bring us
right. The age of the saints has passed; they are no longer any service to us; we must walk
in their spirit, but not along their road; and in this sense we say, that we have no pattern
great men, no biographies, no history, which are of real service to us. It is the remarkable
characteristic of the present time, as far as we know--a new phenomenon since history began
to be written; one more proof, if we wanted proof, that we are entering on another era. In
our present efforts at educating, we are like workmen setting about to make a machine which
they know is to be composed of plates and joints, and wheels and screws and springs:--they
temper their springs, and smooth their plates, and carve out carefully their wheels and screws,
but having no idea of the machine in its combination, they either fasten them together at random,
and create some monster of disjointed undirected force, or else pile the finished materials
into a heap together, and trust to some organic spirit in themselves which will shape them
into unity. We do not know what we would be at--make our children into men, says one--but what
sort of men? The Greeks were men, so were the Jews, so were the Romans, so were the old Saxons,
the Normans, the Duke of Alva's Spaniards, and Cromwell's Puritans. These were all men, and
strong men too; yet all different, and all differently trained. 'Into Christian men,' say others:
but the saints were Christian men; yet the modern Englishmen have been offered the saints'
biographies, and have with sufficient clearness expressed their opinion of them.

Alas! in all this confusion, only those keen-eyed children of this world find their profit;
their idea does not readily forsake them. In their substantial theory of life, the business
of man in it is to get on, to thrive, to prosper, to have riches in possession. They will have
their little ones taught, by the law of demand, what will fetch its price in the market; and
this is clear, bold, definite, straightforward--and therefore it is strong, and works its way.
It works and will prevail for a time; for a time--but not for ever, unless indeed religion
be all a dream, and our airy notions of ourselves a vision out of which our wise age is the
long-waited-for awakening.

It would be a weary and odious business to follow out all the causes which have combined to
bring us into our present state. Many of them lie deep down in the roots of humanity, and many
belong to that large system of moral causation which works through vast masses of mankind--which,
impressing peculiar and necessary features on the eras as they succeed, leaves individuals
but a limited margin within which they may determine what they will be. One cause, however,
may be mentioned, which lies near the surface, and which for many reasons it may be advantageous
to consider. At first thought it may seem superficial and captious; but we do not think it
will at the second, and still less at the third.

Protestantism, and even Anglo-Protestantism, has not been without its great men. In their first
fierce struggle for existence, these creeds gave birth to thousands whose names may command
any rank in history. But alone of all forms of religion, past or present, and we will add (as
we devoutly hope), to come (for in her present form, at least, the Church of England cannot
long remain), Protestantism knows not what to do with her own offspring; she is unable to give
them open and honourable recognition. Entangled in speculative theories of human depravity,
of the worthlessness of the best which the best men can do, Protestantism is unable to say
heartily of any one, 'Here is a good man to be loved and remembered with reverence.' There
are no saints in the English Church. The English Church does not pretend to saints. Her children
may live purely, holily, and beautifully, but her gratitude for them must be silent; she may
not thank God for them--she may not hold them up before her congregation. They may or they
may not have been really good, but she may not commit herself to attributing a substantial
value to the actions of a nature so corrupt as that of man. Among Protestants, the Church of
England is the worst, for she is not wholly Protestant. In the utterness of the self-abnegation
of the genuine Protestant there is something approaching the heroic. But she, ambitious of
being Catholic as well as Protestant, like that old Church of evil memory which would be neither
hot nor cold, will neither wholly abandon merit, nor wholly claim it; but halts on between
two opinions, claiming and disclaiming, saying and in the next breath again unsaying. The Oxford
student being asked for the doctrine of the Anglican Church on good works, knew the rocks and
whirlpools among which an unwary answer might involve him, and steering midway between Scylla
and Charybdis, replied, with laudable caution, 'a few of them would not do a man any harm.'
It is scarcely a caricature of the prudence of the Articles. And so at last it has come to
this with us. The soldier can raise a column to his successful general; the halls of the law
courts are hung round with portraits of the ermined sages; Newton has his statue, and Harvey
and Watt, in the academies of the sciences; and each young aspirant after fame, entering for
the first time upon the calling which he has chosen, sees high excellence highly honoured;
sees the high career, and sees its noble ending, marked out each step of it in golden letters.
But the Church's aisles are desolate, and desolate they must remain. There is no statue for
the Christian. The empty niches stare out like hollow eye-sockets from the walls. Good men
live in the Church and die in her, whose story written out or told would be of inestimable
benefit, but she may not write it. She may speak of goodness, but not of the good man; as she
may speak of sin, but may not censure the sinner. Her position is critical; the Dissenters
would lay hold of it. She may not do it, but she will do what she can. She cannot tolerate
an image indeed, or a picture of her own raising; she has no praise to utter at her children's
graves, when their lives have witnessed to her teaching. But if others will bear the expense
and will risk the sin, she will offer no objection. Her walls are naked. The wealthy ones among
her congregation may adorn them as they please; the splendour of a dead man's memorial shall
be, not as his virtues were, but as his purse; and his epitaph may be brilliant according as
there are means to pay for it. They manage things better at the museums and the institutes.

Let this pass, however, as the worst case. There are other causes at work besides the neglect
of churches; the neglect itself being as much a result as a cause. There is a common dead level
over the world, to which churches and teachers, however seemingly opposite, are alike condemned.
As it is here in England, so it is with the American Emerson. The fault is not in them, but
in the age of which they are no more than the indicators. We are passing out of old forms of
activity into others new and on their present scale untried; and how to work nobly in them
is the one problem for us all. Surius will not profit us, nor the 'Mort d'Arthur.' Our calling
is neither to the hermitage nor to the round table. Our work lies now in those peaceful occupations
which, in ages called heroic, were thought unworthy of noble souls. In those it was the slave
who tilled the ground, and wove the garments. It was the ignoble burgher who covered the sea
with his ships, and raised up factories and workshops; and how far such occupations influenced
the character, how they could be made to minister to loftiness of heart, and high and beautiful
life, was a question which could not occur while the atmosphere of the heroic was on all sides
believed so alien to them. Times have changed. The old hero worship has vanished with the need
of it; but no other has risen in its stead, and without it we wander in the dark. The commonplaces
of morality, the negative commandments, general exhortations to goodness, while neither speaker
nor hearer can tell what they mean by goodness--these are all which now remain to us; and thrown
into a life more complicated than any which the earth has yet experienced, we are left to wind
our way through the labyrinth of its details without any clue except our own instincts, our
own knowledge, our own hopes and desires.

We complain of generalities; we will not leave ourselves exposed to the same charge. We will
mention a few of the thousand instances in which we cry for guidance and find none; instances
on which those who undertake to teach us ought to have made up their minds.

On the surface at least of the Prayer-book, there seems to be something left remaining of the
Catholic penitential system. Fasting is spoken of and abstinence, and some form or other of
self-inflicted self-denial is necessarily meant. This thing can by no possibility be unimportant,
and we may well smile at the exclusive claims of a church to the cure of our souls, who is
unable to say what she thinks about it. Let us ask her living interpreters then, and what shall
we get for an answer? either no answer at all, or contradictory answers; angrily, violently,
passionately, contradictory. Among the many voices, what is a young man to conclude? He will
conclude naturally according to his inclination; and if he chooses right, it will most likely
be on a wrong motive.

Again, courage is, on all hands, considered as an essential of high character. Among all fine
people, old and modern, wherever we are able to get an insight into their training system,
we find it a thing particularly attended to. The Greeks, the Romans, the old Persians, our
own nation till the last two hundred years, whoever of mankind have turned out good for anything
anywhere, knew very well, that to exhort a boy to be brave without training him in it, would
be like exhorting a young colt to submit to the bridle without breaking him in. Step by step,
as he could bear it, the boy was introduced to danger, till his pulse ceased to be agitated,
and he became familiarised with peril as his natural element. It was a matter of carefully
considered, thoroughly recognised, and organised education. But courage nowadays is not a paying
virtue. Courage does not help to make money, and so we have ceased to care about it; and boys
are left to educate one another by their own semi-brutal instincts, in this, which is perhaps
the most important of all features in the human character. Schools, as far as the masters are
concerned with them, are places for teaching Greek and Latin--that, and nothing more. At the
universities, fox-hunting is, perhaps, the only discipline of the kind now to be found, and
fox-hunting, by forbidding it and winking at it, the authorities have contrived to place on
as demoralising a footing as ingenuity could devise.[AA]

To pass from training to life. A boy has done with school and college; he has become a man,
and has to choose his profession. It is the one most serious step which he has yet taken. In
most cases, there is no recalling it. He believes that he is passing through life to eternity;
that his chance of getting to heaven depends on what use he makes of his time; he prays every
day that he may be delivered from temptation; it is his business to see that he does not throw
himself into it. Now, every one of the many professions has a peculiar character of its own,
which, with rare exceptions, it inflicts on those who follow it. There is the shopkeeper type,
the manufacturer type, the lawyer type, the medical type, the clerical type, the soldier's,
the sailor's. The nature of a man is

            Like the dyer's hand,
    Subdued to what it works in;

and we can distinguish with ease, on the slightest intercourse, to what class a grown person
belongs. It is to be seen in his look, in his words, in his tone of thought, his voice, gesture,
even in his hand-writing; and in everything which he does. Every human employment has its especial
moral characteristic, its peculiar temptations, its peculiar influences--of a subtle and not
easily analysed kind, and only to be seen in their effects. Here, therefore--here, if anywhere,
we want Mr. Emerson with his representatives, or the Church with her advice and warning. But,
in fact, what attempt do we see to understand any of this, or even to acknowledge it; to master
the moral side of the professions; to teach young men entering them what they are to expect,
what to avoid, or what to seek? Where are the highest types--the pattern lawyer, and shopkeeper,
and merchant? Are they all equally favourable to excellence of character? Do they offer equal
opportunities? Which best suits this disposition, and which suits that? Alas! character is
little thought of in the choice. It is rather, which shall I best succeed in? Where shall I
make most money? Suppose an anxious boy to go for counsel to his spiritual mother; to go to
her, and ask her to guide him. Shall I be a soldier? he says. What will she tell him? This
and no more--you may, without sin. Shall I be a lawyer, merchant, manufacturer, tradesman,
engineer? Still the same answer. But which is best? he demands. We do not know: we do not know.
There is no guilt in either; you may take which you please, provided you go to church regularly,
and are honest and good. If he is foolish enough to persist further, and ask, in what goodness
and honesty consist in his especial department (whichever he selects), he will receive the
same answer; in other words, he will be told to give every man his due and be left to find
out for himself in what 'his due' consists. It is like an artist telling his pupil to put the
lights and shadows in their due places, and leaving it to the pupil's ingenuity to interpret
such instructive directions.

One more instance of an obviously practical kind. Masters, few people will now deny, owe certain
duties to their workmen beyond payment at the competition price for their labour, and the workmen
owe something to their masters beyond making their own best bargain. Courtesy, on the one side,
and respect on the other, are at least due; and wherever human beings are brought in contact,
a number of reciprocal obligations at once necessarily arise out of the conditions of their
position. It is this question which at the present moment is convulsing an entire branch of
English trade. It is this question which has shaken the Continent like an earthquake, and yet
it is one which, the more it is thought about, the more clearly seems to refuse to admit of
being dealt with by legislation. It is a question for the Gospel and not for the law. The duties
are of the kind which it is the business, not of the State, but of the Church, to look to.
Why is the Church silent? There are duties; let her examine them, sift them, prove them, and
then point them out. Why not--why not? Alas! she cannot, she dare not give offence, and therefore
must find none. It is to be feared that we have a rough trial to pass through, before we find
our way and understand our obligations. Yet far off we seem to see a time when the lives, the
actions of the really great, great good masters, great good landlords, great good working men,
will be laid out once more before their several orders, laid out in the name of God, as once
the saints' lives were; and the same sounds shall be heard in factory and in counting-house
as once sounded through abbey, chapel, and cathedral aisle--'Look at these men; bless God for
them, and follow them.'

And let no one fear that, if such happy time were come, it would result in a tame and weary
sameness; that the beautiful variety of individual form would be lost, drilled away in regimental
uniformity. Even if it were so, it need not be any the worse for us; we are not told to develope
our individualities, we are told to bear fruit. The poor vagabond, with all his individualities
about him, if by luck he falls into the hands of the recruiting sergeant, finds himself, a
year later, with his red coat and his twelve months' training, not a little the better for
the loss of them. But such schooling as we have been speaking of will drill out only such individualities
as are of the unworthy kind, and will throw the strength of the nature into the development
of the healthiest features in it. Far more, as things now are, we see men sinking into sameness--an
inorganic, unwholesome sameness, in which the higher nature is subdued, and the man is sacrificed
to the profession. The circumstances of his life are his world; and he sinks under them, he
does not conquer them. If he has to choose between the two, God's uniform is better than the
world's. The first gives him freedom; the second takes it from him. Only here, as in everything,
we must understand the nature of the element in which we work; understand it; understand the
laws of it. Throw off the lower laws; the selfish, debasing influences of the profession; obey
the higher; follow love, truthfulness, manliness; follow these first, and make the profession
serve them; and that is freedom; there is none else possible for man.

    Das Gesetz soll nur uns Freiheit geben;

and whatever individuality is lost in the process, we may feel assured that the devil has too
much to do with, to make us care to be rid of it.

But how to arrive at this? so easy as it is to suggest on paper, so easy to foretell in words.
Raise the level of public opinion, we might say; insist on a higher standard; in the economist's
language, increase the demand for goodness, and the supply will follow; or, at any rate, men
will do their best. Until we require more of one another, more will not be provided. But this
is but to restate the problem in other words. How are we to touch the heart; how to awaken
the desire? We believe that the good man, the great man, whatever he be, prince or peasant,
is really lovely; that really and truly, if we can only see him, he more than anything will
move us; and at least, we have a right to demand that the artificial hindrances which prevent
our lifting him above the crowd, shall be swept away. He in his beautiful life is a thousand
times more God's witness than any preacher in a pulpit, and his light must not be concealed
any more. As we said, what lies in the way of our sacred recognition of great men is more than
anything else the Protestant doctrine of good works. We do not forget what it meant when the
world first heard of it. It was a cry from the very sanctuary of the soul, flinging off and
execrating the accursed theory of merits, the sickening parade of redundant saintly virtues,
which the Roman Church had converted into stock, and dispensed for the benefit of the believers.
This is not the place to pour out our nausea on so poor, yet so detestable a farce. But it
seems with all human matters, that as soon as spiritual truths are petrified into doctrines,
it is another name for their death. They die, corrupt, and breed a pestilence. The doctrine
of good works was hurled away by an instinct of generous feeling, and this feeling itself has
again become dead, and a fresh disease has followed upon it. Nobody (or, at least, nobody good
for anything) will lay a claim to merit for this or that good action which he may have done.
Exactly in proportion as a man is really good, will be the eagerness with which he will refuse
all credit for it; he will cry out, with all his soul, 'Not unto us--not unto us.'

And yet, practically, we all know and feel that between man and man there is an infinite moral
difference; one is good, one is bad, another hovers between the two; the whole of our conduct
to each other is necessarily governed by a recognition of this fact, just as it is in the analogous
question of the will. Ultimately, we are nothing of ourselves; we know that we are but what
God has given us grace to be--we did not make ourselves--we do not keep ourselves here--we
are but what in the eternal order of Providence we were designed to be--exactly that and nothing
else; and yet we treat each other as responsible; we cannot help it. The most rigid Calvinist
cannot eliminate his instincts; his loves and hatreds seem rather to deepen in intensity of
colouring as, logically, his creed should lead him to conquer them as foolish. It is useless,
it is impossible, to bring down these celestial mysteries upon our earth, to try to see our
way by them, or determine our feelings by them; men are good, men are bad, relatively to us
and to our understandings if you will, but still really, and so they must be treated.

There is no more mischievous falsehood than to persist in railing at man's nature, as if it
were all vile together, as if the best and the worst which comes of it were in God's sight
equally without worth. These denunciations tend too fatally to realise themselves. Tell a man
that no good which he can do is of any value, and depend upon it he will take you at your word--most
especially will the wealthy, comfortable, luxurious man, just the man who has most means to
do good, and whom of all things it is most necessary to stimulate to it. Surely we should not
be afraid. The instincts which God has placed in our hearts are too mighty for us to be able
to extinguish them with doctrinal sophistry. We love the good man, we praise him, we admire
him--we cannot help it; and surely it is mere cowardice to shrink from recognising it openly--thankfully,
divinely recognising it. If true at all, there is no truth in heaven or earth of deeper practical
importance to us; and Protestantism must have lapsed from its once generous spirit, if it persists
in imposing a dogma of its own upon our hearts, the touch of which is fatal as the touch of
a torpedo to any high or noble endeavours after excellence.

'Drive out nature with a fork, she ever comes running back;' and while we leave out of consideration
the reality, we are filling the chasm with inventions of our own. The only novels which are
popular among us are those which picture the successful battles of modern men and women with
modern life, which are imperfect shadows of those real battles which every reader has seen
in some form or other, or has longed to see in his own small sphere. It shows where the craving
lies if we had but the courage to meet it; why need we fall back on imagination to create what
God has created ready for us? In every department of human life, in the more and the less,
there is always one man who is the best, and one type of man which is the best, living and
working his silent way to heaven in the very middle of us. Let us find this type then--let
us see what it is which makes such men the best, and raise up their excellencies into an acknowledged
and open standard, of which they themselves shall be the living witnesses. Is there a landlord
who is spending his money, not on pineries and hothouses, but on schools, and washhouses, and
drains, who is less intent on the magnificence of his own grand house, than in providing cottages
for his people where decency is possible; then let us not pass him by with a torpid wonder
or a vanishing emotion of pleasure--rather let us seize him and raise him up upon a pinnacle,
that other landlords may gaze upon him, if, perhaps, their hearts may prick them; and the world
shall learn from what one man has done what they have a right to require that others shall do.

So it might be through the thousand channels of life. It should not be so difficult; the machinery
is ready, both to find your men and to use them. In theory, at least, every parish has its
pastor, and the state of every soul is or ought to be known. We know not what turn things may
take, or what silent changes are rushing on below us. Even while the present organisation remains--but,
alas! no--it is no use to urge a Church bound hand and foot in State shackles to stretch its
limbs in any wholesome activity. If the teachers of the people really were the wisest and best
and noblest men among us, this and a thousand other blessed things would follow from it; till
then let us be content to work and pray, and lay our hand to the wheel wherever we can find
a spoke to grasp. Corruptio optimi est pessima; the national Church as it ought to be is the
soul and conscience of the body politic, but a man whose body has the direction of his conscience
we do not commonly consider in the most hopeful moral condition.

FOOTNOTES:

[AA] Written 1850.

REYNARD THE FOX.[AB]

Lord Macaulay, in his Essay on Machiavelli, propounds a singular theory.

FOOTNOTES:

[AB] Fraser's Magazine, 1852.

THE CAT'S PILGRIMAGE.

1850.

PART I.

'It is all very fine,' said the Cat, yawning, and stretching herself against the fender, 'but
it is rather a bore; I don't see the use of it.' She raised herself, and arranging her tail
into a ring, and seating herself in the middle of it, with her fore paws in a straight line
from her shoulders, at right angles to the hearth-rug, she looked pensively at the fire. 'It
is very odd,' she went on, 'there is my poor Tom; he is gone. I saw him stretched out in the
yard. I spoke to him, and he took no notice of me. He won't, I suppose, ever any more, for
they put him under the earth. Nice fellow he was. It is wonderful how little one cares about
it. So many jolly evenings we spent together; and now I seem to get on quite as well without
him. I wonder what has become of him; and my last children, too, what has become of them? What
are we here for? I would ask the men, only they are so conceited and stupid they can't understand
what we say. I hear them droning away, teaching their little ones every day; telling them to
be good, and to do what they are bid, and all that. Nobody ever tells me to do anything; if
they do I don't do it, and I am very good. I wonder whether I should be any better if I minded
more. I'll ask the Dog.'

'Dog,' said she, to a little fat spaniel coiled up on a mat like a lady's muff with a head
and tail stuck on to it, 'Dog, what do you make of it all?'

The Dog faintly opened his languid eyes, looked sleepily at the Cat for a moment, and dropped
them again.

'Dog,' she said, 'I want to talk to you; don't go to sleep. Can't you answer a civil question?'

'Don't bother me,' said the Dog, 'I am tired. I stood on my hind legs ten minutes this morning
before I could get my breakfast, and it hasn't agreed with me.'

'Who told you to do it?' said the Cat.

'Why, the lady I have to take care of me,' replied the Dog.

'Do you feel any better for it, Dog, after you have been standing on your legs?' asked she.

'Hav'n't I told you, you stupid Cat, that it hasn't agreed with me; let me go to sleep and
don't plague me.'

'But I mean,' persisted the Cat, 'do you feel improved, as the men call it? They tell their
children that if they do what they are told they will improve, and grow good and great. Do
you feel good and great?'

'What do I know?' said the Dog. 'I eat my breakfast and am happy. Let me alone.'

'Do you never think, oh Dog without a soul! Do you never wonder what dogs are, and what this
world is?'

The Dog stretched himself, and rolled his eyes lazily round the room. 'I conceive,' he said,
'that the world is for dogs, and men and women are put into it to take care of dogs; women
to take care of little dogs like me, and men for the big dogs like those in the yard--and cats,'
he continued, 'are to know their place, and not to be troublesome.'

'They beat you sometimes,' said the Cat. 'Why do they do that? They never beat me.'

'If they forget their places, and beat me,' snarled the Dog, 'I bite them, and they don't do
it again. I should like to bite you, too, you nasty Cat; you have woke me up.'

'There may be truth in what you say,' said the Cat, calmly; 'but I think your view is limited.
If you listened like me you would hear the men say it was all made for them, and you and I
were made to amuse them.'

'They don't dare to say so,' said the Dog.

'They do, indeed,' said the Cat. 'I hear many things which you lose by sleeping so much. They
think I am asleep, and so they are not afraid to talk before me; but my ears are open when
my eyes are shut.'

'You surprise me,' said the Dog. 'I never listen to them, except when I take notice of them,
and then they never talk of anything except of me.'

'I could tell you a thing or two about yourself which you don't know,' said the Cat. 'You have
never heard, I dare say, that once upon a time your fathers lived in a temple, and that people
prayed to them.'

'Prayed! what is that?'

'Why, they went on their knees to you to ask you to give them good things, just as you stand
on your toes to them now to ask for your breakfast. You don't know either that you have got
one of those bright things we see up in the air at night called after you.'

'Well, it is just what I said,' answered the Dog. 'I told you it was all made for us. They
never did anything of that sort for you?'

'Didn't they? Why, there was a whole city where the people did nothing else, and as soon as
we got stiff and couldn't move about any more, instead of being put under the ground like poor
Tom, we used to be stuffed full of all sorts of nice things, and kept better than we were when
we were alive.'

'You are a very wise Cat,' answered her companion; 'but what good is it knowing all this?'

'Why, don't you see,' said she, 'they don't do it any more. We are going down in the world,
we are, and that is why living on in this way is such an unsatisfactory sort of thing. I don't
mean to complain for myself, and you needn't, Dog; we have a quiet life of it; but a quiet
life is not the thing, and if there is nothing to be done except sleep and eat, and eat and
sleep, why, as I said before, I don't see the use of it. There is something more in it than
that; there was once, and there will be again, and I sha'n't be happy till I find it out. It
is a shame, Dog, I say. The men have been here only a few thousand years, and we--why, we have
been here hundreds of thousands; if we are older, we ought to be wiser. I'll go and ask the
creatures in the wood.'

'You'll learn more from the men,' said the Dog.

'They are stupid, and they don't know what I say to them; besides, they are so conceited they
care for nothing except themselves. No, I shall try what I can do in the woods. I'd as soon
go after poor Tom as stay living any longer like this.'

'And where is poor Tom?' yawned the Dog.

'That is just one of the things I want to know,' answered she. 'Poor Tom is lying under the
yard, or the skin of him, but whether that is the whole I don't feel so sure. They didn't think
so in the city I told you about. It is a beautiful day, Dog; you won't take a trot out with
me?' she added, wistfully.

'Who? I' said the Dog. 'Not quite.'

'You may get so wise,' said she.

'Wisdom is good,' said the Dog; 'but so is the hearth-rug, thank you!'

'But you may be free,' said she.

'I shall have to hunt for my own dinner,' said he.

'But, Dog, they may pray to you again,' said she.

'But I sha'n't have a softer mat to sleep upon, Cat, and as I am rather delicate, that is a
consideration.'

PART II.

So the Dog wouldn't go, and the Cat set off by herself to learn how to be happy, and to be
all that a Cat could be. It was a fine sunny morning. She determined to try the meadow first,
and, after an hour or two, if she had not succeeded, then to go off to the wood. A Blackbird
was piping away on a thornbush as if his heart was running over with happiness. The Cat had
breakfasted, and so was able to listen without any mixture of feeling. She didn't sneak. She
walked boldly up under the bush, and the bird, seeing she had no bad purpose, sate still and
sung on.

'Good morning, Blackbird; you seem to be enjoying yourself this fine day.'

'Good morning, Cat.'

'Blackbird, it is an odd question, perhaps. What ought one to do to be as happy as you?'

'Do your duty, Cat.'

'But what is my duty, Blackbird?'

'Take care of your little ones, Cat.'

'I hav'n't any,' said she.

'Then sing to your mate,' said the bird.

'Tom is dead,' said she.

'Poor Cat!' said the bird. 'Then sing over his grave. If your song is sad, you will find your
heart grow lighter for it.'

'Mercy!' thought the Cat. 'I could do a little singing with a living lover, but I never heard
of singing for a dead one. But you see, bird, it isn't Cats' nature. When I am cross, I mew.
When I am pleased, I purr; but I must be pleased first. I can't purr myself into happiness.'

'I am afraid there is something the matter with your heart, my Cat. It wants warming; good-bye.'

The Blackbird flew away. The Cat looked sadly after him. 'He thinks I am like him; and he doesn't
know that a Cat is a Cat,' said she. 'As it happens now, I feel a great deal for a Cat. If
I hadn't got a heart I shouldn't be unhappy. I won't be angry. I'll try that great fat fellow.'

The Ox lay placidly chewing, with content beaming out of his eyes and playing on his mouth.

'Ox,' she said, 'what is the way to be happy?'

'Do your duty,' said the Ox.

'Bother,' said the Cat, 'duty again! What is it, Ox?'

'Get your dinner,' said the Ox.

'But it is got for me, Ox; and I have nothing to do but to eat it.'

'Well, eat it, then, like me.'

'So I do; but I am not happy for all that.'

'Then you are a very wicked, ungrateful Cat.'

The Ox munched away. A Bee buzzed into a buttercup under the Cat's nose.

'I beg your pardon,' said the Cat, 'it isn't curiosity--what are you doing?'

'Doing my duty; don't stop me, Cat.'

'But, Bee, what is your duty?'

'Making honey,' said the Bee.

'I wish I could make honey,' sighed the Cat.

'Do you mean to say you can't?' said the Bee. 'How stupid you must be. What do you do, then?'

'I do nothing, Bee. I can't get anything to do.'

'You won't get anything to do, you mean, you lazy Cat! You are a good-for-nothing drone. Do
you know what we do to our drones? We kill them; and that is all they are fit for. Good morning
to you.'

'Well, I am sure,' said the Cat, 'they are treating me civilly; I had better have stopped at
home at this rate. Stroke my whiskers! heartless! wicked! good-for-nothing! stupid! and only
fit to be killed! This is a pleasant beginning, anyhow. I must look for some wiser creatures
than these are. What shall I do? I know. I know where I will go.'

It was in the middle of the wood. The bush was very dark, but she found him by his wonderful
eye. Presently, as she got used to the light, she distinguished a sloping roll of feathers,
a rounded breast, surmounted by a round head, set close to the body, without an inch of a neck
intervening. 'How wise he looks!' she said; 'What a brain! what a forehead! His head is not
long, but what an expanse! and what a depth of earnestness!' The Owl sloped his head a little
on one side; the Cat slanted hers upon the other. The Owl set it straight again, the Cat did
the same. They stood looking in this way for some minutes; at last, in a whispering voice,
the Owl said, 'What are you who presume to look into my repose? Pass on upon your way, and
carry elsewhere those prying eyes.'

'Oh, wonderful Owl,' said the Cat, 'you are wise, and I want to be wise; and I am come to you
to teach me.'

A film floated backwards and forwards over the Owl's eyes; it was his way of showing that he
was pleased.

'I have heard in our schoolroom,' went on the Cat, 'that you sate on the shoulder of Pallas,
and she told you all about it.'

'And what would you know, oh, my daughter?' said the Owl.

'Everything,' said the Cat, 'everything. First of all, how to be happy.'

'Mice content you not, my child, even as they content not me,' said the Owl. 'It is good.'

'Mice, indeed!' said the Cat; 'no, Parlour Cats don't eat mice. I have better than mice, and
no trouble to get it; but I want something more.'

'The body's meat is provided. You would now fill your soul.'

'I want to improve,' said the Cat. 'I want something to do. I want to find out what the creatures
call my duty.'

'You would learn how to employ those happy hours of your leisure--rather how to make them happy
by a worthy use. Meditate, oh Cat! meditate! meditate!'

'That is the very thing,' said she. 'Meditate! that is what I like above all things. Only I
want to know how: I want something to meditate about. Tell me, Owl, and I will bless you every
hour of the day as I sit by the parlour fire.'

'I will tell you,' answered the Owl, 'what I have been thinking of ever since the moon changed.
You shall take it home with you and think about it too; and the next full moon you shall come
again to me; we will compare our conclusions.'

'Delightful! delightful!' said the Cat. 'What is it? I will try this minute.'

'From the beginning,' replied the Owl, 'our race have been considering which first existed,
the Owl or the egg. The Owl comes from the egg, but likewise the egg from the Owl.'

'Mercy!' said the Cat.

'From sunrise to sunset I ponder on it, oh Cat! When I reflect on the beauty of the complete
Owl, I think that must have been first, as the cause is greater than the effect. When I remember
my own childhood, I incline the other way.'

'Well, but how are we to find out?' said the Cat.

'Find out!' said the Owl. 'We can never find out. The beauty of the question is, that its solution
is impossible. What would become of all our delightful reasonings, oh, unwise Cat! if we were
so unhappy as to know?'

'But what in the world is the good of thinking about it, if you can't, oh Owl?'

'My child, that is a foolish question. It is good, in order that the thoughts on these things
may stimulate wonder. It is in wonder that the Owl is great.'

'Then you don't know anything at all,' said the Cat. 'What did you sit on Pallas's shoulder
for? You must have gone to sleep.'

'Your tone is over flippant, Cat, for philosophy. The highest of all knowledge is to know that
we know nothing.'

The Cat made two great arches with her back and her tail.

'Bless the mother that laid you,' said she. 'You were dropped by mistake in a goose nest. You
won't do. I don't know much, but I am not such a creature as you, anyhow. A great white thing!'

She straitened her body, stuck her tail up on end, and marched off with much dignity. But,
though she respected herself rather more than before, she was not on the way to the end of
her difficulties. She tried all the creatures she met without advancing a step. They had all
the old story, 'Do your duty.' But each had its own, and no one could tell her what hers was.
Only one point they all agreed upon--the duty of getting their dinner when they were hungry.
The day wore on, and she began to think she would like hers. Her meals came so regularly at
home that she scarcely knew what hunger was; but now the sensation came over her very palpably,
and she experienced quite new emotions as the hares and rabbits skipped about her, or as she
spied a bird upon a tree. For a moment she thought she would go back and eat the Owl--he was
the most useless creature she had seen; but on second thought she didn't fancy he would be
nice: besides that, his claws were sharp and his beak too. Presently, however, as she sauntered
down the path, she came on a little open patch of green, in the middle of which a fine fat
Rabbit was sitting. There was no escape. The path ended there, and the bushes were so thick
on each side that he couldn't get away except through her paws.

'Really,' said the Cat, 'I don't wish to be troublesome; I wouldn't do it if I could help it;
but I am very hungry, I am afraid I must eat you. It is very unpleasant, I assure you, to me
as well as to you.'

The poor Rabbit begged for mercy.

'Well,' said she, 'I think it is hard; I do really--and, if the law could be altered, I should
be the first to welcome it. But what can a Cat do? You eat the grass; I eat you. But, Rabbit,
I wish you would do me a favour.'

'Anything to save my life,' said the Rabbit.

'It is not exactly that,' said the Cat; 'but I haven't been used to killing my own dinner,
and it is disagreeable. Couldn't you die? I shall hurt you dreadfully if I kill you.'

'Oh!' said the Rabbit, 'you are a kind Cat; I see it in your eyes, and your whiskers don't
curl like those of the cats in the woods. I am sure you will spare me.'

'But, Rabbit, it is a question of principle. I have to do my duty; and the only duty I have,
as far as I can make out, is to get my dinner.'

'If you kill me, Cat, to do your duty, I sha'n't be able to do mine.'

It was a doubtful point, and the Cat was new to casuistry. 'What is your duty?' said she.

'I have seven little ones at home--seven little ones, and they will all die without me. Pray
let me go.'

'What! do you take care of your children?' said the Cat. 'How interesting! I should like to
see that; take me.'

'Oh! you would eat them, you would,' said the Rabbit. 'No! better eat me than them. No, no.'

'Well, well,' said the Cat, 'I don't know; I suppose I couldn't answer for myself. I don't
think I am right, for duty is pleasant, and it is very unpleasant to be so hungry; but I suppose
you must go. You seem a good Rabbit. Are you happy, Rabbit?'

'Happy! oh, dear beautiful Cat! if you spare me to my poor babies!'

'Pooh, pooh!' said the Cat, peevishly; 'I don't want fine speeches; I meant whether you thought
it worth while to be alive! Of course you do! It don't matter. Go, and keep out of my way;
for, if I don't get my dinner, you may not get off another time. Get along, Rabbit.'

PART III.

It was a great day in the Fox's cave. The eldest cub had the night before brought home his
first goose, and they were just sitting down to it as the Cat came by.

'Ah, my young lady! what, you in the woods? Bad feeding at home, eh? Come out to hunt for yourself?'

The goose smelt excellent; the Cat couldn't help a wistful look. She was only come, she said,
to pay her respects to her wild friends.

'Just in time,' said the Fox. 'Sit down and take a bit of dinner; I see you want it. Make room,
you cubs; place a seat for the lady.'

'Why, thank you,' said the Cat, 'yes; I acknowledge it is not unwelcome. Pray, don't disturb
yourselves, young Foxes. I am hungry. I met a Rabbit on my way here. I was going to eat him,
but he talked so prettily I let him go.'

The cubs looked up from their plates, and burst out laughing.

'For shame, young rascals,' said their father. 'Where are your manners? Mind your dinner, and
don't be rude.'

'Fox,' she said, when it was over, and the cubs were gone to play, 'you are very clever. The
other creatures are all stupid.' The Fox bowed. 'Your family were always clever,' she continued.
'I have heard about them in the books they use in our schoolroom. It is many years since your
ancestor stole the crow's dinner.'

'Don't say stole, Cat; it is not pretty. Obtained by superior ability.'

'I beg your pardon,' said the Cat; 'it is all living with those men. That is not the point.
Well, but I want to know whether you are any wiser or any better than Foxes were then?'

'Really,' said the Fox, 'I am what Nature made me. I don't know. I am proud of my ancestors,
and do my best to keep up the credit of the family.'

'Well, but Fox, I mean do you improve? do I? do any of you? The men are always talking about
doing their duty, and that, they say, is the way to improve, and to be happy. And as I was
not happy I thought that had, perhaps, something to do with it, so I came out to talk to the
creatures. They also had the old chant--duty, duty, duty; but none of them could tell me what
mine was, or whether I had any.'

The Fox smiled. 'Another leaf out of your schoolroom,' said he. 'Can't they tell you there?'

'Indeed,' she said, 'they are very absurd. They say a great deal about themselves, but they
only speak disrespectfully of us. If such creatures as they can do their duty, and improve,
and be happy, why can't we?'

'They say they do, do they?' said the Fox. 'What do they say of me?'

The Cat hesitated.

'Don't be afraid of hurting my feelings, Cat. Out with it.'

'They do all justice to your abilities, Fox,' said she; 'but your morality, they say, is not
high. They say you are a rogue.'

'Morality!' said the Fox. 'Very moral and good they are. And you really believe all that? What
do they mean by calling me a rogue?'

'They mean you take whatever you can get, without caring whether it is just or not.'

'My dear Cat, it is very well for a man, if he can't bear his own face, to paint a pretty one
on a panel and call it a looking-glass; but you don't mean that it takes you in.'

'Teach me,' said the Cat. 'I fear I am weak.'

'Who get justice from the men unless they can force it? Ask the sheep that are cut into mutton.
Ask the horses that draw their ploughs. I don't mean it is wrong of the men to do as they do;
but they needn't lie about it.'

'You surprise me,' said the Cat.

'My good Cat, there is but one law in the world. The weakest goes to the wall. The men are
sharper-witted than the creatures, and so they get the better of them and use them. They may
call it just if they like; but when a tiger eats a man I guess he has just as much justice
on his side as the man when he eats a sheep.'

'And that is the whole of it,' said the Cat. 'Well, it is very sad. What do you do with yourself?'

'My duty, to be sure,' said the Fox; 'use my wits and enjoy myself. My dear friend, you and
I are on the lucky side. We eat and are not eaten.'

'Except by the hounds now and then,' said the Cat.

'Yes; by brutes that forget their nature, and sell their freedom to the men,' said the Fox,
bitterly. 'In the meantime my wits have kept my skin whole hitherto, and I bless Nature for
making me a Fox and not a goose.'

'And are you happy, Fox?'

'Happy! yes, of course. So would you be if you would do like me, and use your wits. My good
Cat, I should be as miserable as you if I found my geese every day at the cave's mouth. I have
to hunt for them, lie for them, sneak for them, fight for them; cheat those old fat farmers,
and bring out what there is inside me; and then I am happy--of course I am. And then, Cat,
think of my feelings as a father last night, when my dear boy came home with the very young
gosling which was marked for the Michaelmas dinner! Old Reineke himself wasn't more than a
match for that young Fox at his years. You know our epic?'

'A little of it, Fox. They don't read it in our schoolroom. They say it is not moral; but I
have heard pieces of it. I hope it is not all quite true.'

'Pack of stuff! it is the only true book that ever was written. If it is not, it ought to be.
Why, that book is the law of the world--la carrière aux talents--and writing it was the honestest
thing ever done by a man. That fellow knew a thing or two, and wasn't ashamed of himself when
he did know. They are all like him, too, if they would only say so. There never was one of
them yet who wasn't more ashamed of being called ugly than of being called a rogue, and of
being called stupid than of being called naughty.'

'It has a roughish end, this life of yours, if you keep clear of the hounds, Fox,' said the Cat.

'What! a rope in the yard! Well, it must end some day; and when the farmer catches me I shall
be getting old, and my brains will be taking leave of me; so the sooner I go the better, that
I may disgrace myself the less. Better be jolly while it lasts, than sit mewing out your life
and grumbling at it as a bore.'

'Well,' said the Cat, 'I am very much obliged to you. I suppose I may even get home again.
I shall not find a wiser friend than you, and perhaps I shall not find another good-natured
enough to give me so good a dinner. But it is very sad.'

'Think of what I have said,' answered the Fox. 'I'll call at your house some night; you will
take me a walk round the yard, and then I'll show you.'

'Not quite,' thought the Cat, as she trotted off; 'one good turn deserves another, that is
true; and you have given me a dinner. But they have given me many at home, and I mean to take
a few more of them; so I think you mustn't go round our yard.'

PART IV.

The next morning, when the Dog came down to breakfast, he found his old friend sitting in her
usual place on the hearth-rug.

'Oh! so you have come back,' said he. 'How d'ye do? You don't look as if you had had a very
pleasant journey.'

'I have learnt something,' said the Cat. 'Knowledge is never pleasant.'

'Then it is better to be without it,' said the Dog.

'Especially, better to be without knowing how to stand on one's hind legs, Dog,' said the Cat;
'still you see, you are proud of it; but I have learnt a great deal, Dog. They won't worship
you any more, and it is better for you; you wouldn't be any happier. What did you do yesterday?'

'Indeed,' said the Dog, 'I hardly remember. I slept after you went away. In the afternoon I
took a drive in the carriage. Then I had my dinner. My maid washed me and put me to bed. There
is the difference between you and me; you have to wash yourself and put yourself to bed.'

'And you really don't find it a bore, living like this? Wouldn't you like something to do?
Wouldn't you like some children to play with? The Fox seemed to find it very pleasant.'

'Children, indeed!' said the Dog, 'when I have got men and women. Children are well enough
for foxes and wild creatures; refined dogs know better; and, for doing--can't I stand on my
toes? can't I dance? at least, couldn't I before I was so fat?'

'Ah! I see everybody likes what he was bred to,' sighed the Cat. 'I was bred to do nothing,
and I must like that. Train the cat as the cat should go, and the cat will be happy and ask
no questions. Never seek for impossibilities, Dog. That is the secret.'

'And you have spent a day in the woods to learn that,' said he. 'I could have taught you that.
Why, Cat, one day when you were sitting scratching your nose before the fire, I thought you
looked so pretty that I should have liked to marry you; but I knew I couldn't, so I didn't
make myself miserable.'

The Cat looked at him with her odd green eyes. 'I never wished to marry you, Dog; I shouldn't
have presumed. But it was wise of you not to fret about it. But, listen to me, Dog--listen.
I met many creatures in the wood, all sorts of creatures, beasts and birds. They were all happy;
they didn't find it a bore. They went about their work, and did it, and enjoyed it, and yet
none of them had the same story to tell. Some did one thing, some another; and, except the
Fox, each had got a sort of notion of doing its duty. The Fox was a rogue; he said he was;
but yet he was not unhappy. His conscience never troubled him. Your work is standing on your
toes, and you are happy. I have none, and that is why I am unhappy. When I came to think about
it, I found every creature out in the wood had to get its own living. I tried to get mine,
but I didn't like it, because I wasn't used to it; and as for knowing, the Fox, who didn't
care to know anything except how to cheat greater fools than himself, was the cleverest fellow
I came across. Oh! the Owl, Dog--you should have heard the Owl. But I came to this, that it
was no use trying to know, and the only way to be jolly was to go about one's own business
like a decent Cat. Cats' business seems to be killing rabbits and such-like; and it is not
the pleasantest possible; so the sooner one is bred to it the better. As for me, that have
been bred to do nothing, why, as I said before, I must try to like that; but I consider myself
an unfortunate Cat.'

'So don't I consider myself an unfortunate Dog,' said her companion.

'Very likely you do not,' said the Cat.

By this time their breakfast was come in. The Cat ate hers, the Dog did penance for his; and
if one might judge by the purring on the hearth-rug, the Cat, if not the happiest of the two,
at least was not exceedingly miserable.

FABLES.

I.--THE LIONS AND THE OXEN.

Once upon a time a number of cattle came out of the desert to settle in the broad meadows by
a river. They were poor and wretched, and they found it a pleasant exchange; except for a number
of lions, who lived in the mountains near, and who claimed a right, in consideration of permitting
the cattle to remain, to eat as many as they wanted among them. The cattle submitted, partly
because they were too weak to help it, partly because the lions said it was the will of Jupiter;
and the cattle believed them. And so they went on for many ages, till at last, from better
feeding, the cattle grew larger and stronger, and multiplied into great numbers; and at the
same time, from other causes, the lions had much diminished: they were fewer, smaller, and
meaner-looking than they had been; and except in their own opinion of themselves, and in their
appetites, which were more enormous than ever, there was nothing of the old lion left in them.

One day a large ox was quietly grazing, when one of these lions came up, and desired the ox
to lie down, for he wanted to eat him. The ox raised his head, and gravely protested; the lion
growled; the ox was mild, yet firm. The lion insisted upon his legal right, and they agreed
to refer the matter to Minos.

When they came into court, the lion accused the ox of having broken the laws of the beasts.
The lion was king, and the others were bound to obey. Prescriptive usage was clearly on the
lion's side. Minos called on the ox for his defence.

The Ox said that, without consent of his own being asked, he had been born into the meadow.
He did not consider himself much of a beast, but, such as he was, he was very happy, and gave
Jupiter thanks. Now, if the lion could show that the existence of lions was of more importance
than that of oxen in the eyes of Jupiter, he had nothing more to say; he was ready to sacrifice
himself. But this lion had already eaten a thousand oxen. Lions' appetites were so insatiable
that he was forced to ask whether they were really worth what was done for them,--whether the
life of one lion was so noble that the lives of thousands of oxen were not equal to it? He
was ready to own that lions had always eaten oxen, but lions when they first came to the meadow
were a different sort of creature, and they themselves, too (and the ox looked complacently
at himself), had improved since that time. Judging by appearances, though they might be fallacious,
he himself was quite as good a beast as the lion. If the lions would lead lives more noble
than oxen could live, once more he would not complain. As it was, he submitted that the cost
was too great.

Then the Lion put on a grand face and tried to roar; but when he opened his mouth he disclosed
a jaw so drearily furnished that Minos laughed, and told the ox it was his own fault if he
let himself be eaten by such a beast as that. If he persisted in declining, he did not think
the lion would force him.

II.--THE FARMER AND THE FOX.

A farmer, whose poultry-yard had suffered severely from the foxes, succeeded at last in catching
one in a trap. 'Ah, you rascal!' said he, as he saw him struggling, 'I'll teach you to steal
my fat geese!--you shall hang on the tree yonder, and your brothers shall see what comes of
thieving!' The farmer was twisting a halter to do what he threatened, when the fox, whose tongue
had helped him in hard pinches before, thought there could be no harm in trying whether it
might not do him one more good turn.

'You will hang me,' he said, 'to frighten my brother foxes. On the word of a fox they won't
care a rabbit-skin for it; they'll come and look at me; but you may depend upon it, they will
dine at your expense before they go home again!'

'Then I shall hang you for yourself, as a rogue and a rascal,' said the farmer.

'I am only what Nature, or whatever you call the thing, chose to make me,' the Fox answered.
'I didn't make myself.'

'You stole my geese,' said the man.

'Why did Nature make me like geese, then?' said the Fox. 'Live and let live; give me my share,
and I won't touch yours; but you keep them all to yourself.'

'I don't understand your fine talk,' answered the Farmer; 'but I know that you are a thief,
and that you deserve to be hanged.'

His head is too thick to let me catch him so, thought the Fox; I wonder if his heart is any
softer! 'You are taking away the life of a fellow-creature,' he said; 'that's a responsibility--it
is a curious thing that life, and who knows what comes after it? You say I am a rogue--I say
I am not; but at any rate I ought not to be hanged--for if I am not, I don't deserve it; and
if I am, you should give me time to repent!' I have him now, thought the Fox; let him get out
if he can.

'Why, what would you have me do with you?' said the man.

'My notion is that you should let me go, and give me a lamb, or goose or two, every month,
and then I could live without stealing; but perhaps you know better than me, and I am a rogue;
my education may have been neglected; you should shut me up, and take care of me, and teach
me. Who knows but in the end I may turn into a dog?'

'Very pretty,' said the Farmer; 'we have dogs enough, and more, too, than we can take care
of, without you. No, no, Master Fox, I have caught you, and you shall swing, whatever is the
logic of it. There will be one rogue less in the world, anyhow.'

'It is mere hate and unchristian vengeance,' said the Fox.

'No, friend,' the Farmer answered, 'I don't hate you, and I don't want to revenge myself on
you; but you and I can't get on together, and I think I am of more importance than you. If
nettles and thistles grow in my cabbage-garden, I don't try to persuade them to grow into cabbages.
I just dig them up. I don't hate them; but I feel somehow that they mustn't hinder me with
my cabbages, and that I must put them away; and so, my poor friend, I am sorry for you, but
I am afraid you must swing.'

PARABLE OF THE BREAD-FRUIT TREE.

It was after one of those heavy convulsions which have divided era from era, and left mankind
to start again from the beginning, that a number of brave men gathered together to raise anew
from the ground a fresh green home for themselves. The rest of the surviving race were sheltering
themselves amidst the old ruins, or in the caves on the mountains, feeding on husks and shells;
but these men with clear heads and brave hearts ploughed and harrowed the earth, and planted
seeds, and watered them, and watched them; and the seeds grew and shot up with the spring,
but one was larger and fairer than the rest, and the other plants seemed to know it, for they
crawled along till they reached the large one; and they gathered round it, and clung to it,
and grew into it; and soon they became one great stem, with branching roots feeding it as from
many fountains. Then the men got great heart in them when they saw that, and they laboured
more bravely, digging about it in the hot sun, till at last it became great and mighty, and
its roots went down into the heart of the earth, and its branches stretched over all the plain.

Then many others of mankind, when they saw the tree was beautiful, came down and gathered under
it, and those who had raised it received them with open arms, and they all sat under its shade
together, and gathered its fruits, and made their homes there, rejoicing in its loveliness.
And ages passed away, and all that generation passed away, and still the tree grew stronger
and fairer, and their children's children watched it age after age, as it lived on and flowered
and seeded. And they said in their hearts, the tree is immortal--it will never die. They took
no care of the seed; the scent of the flowers and the taste of the sweet fruit was all they
thought of: and the winds of heaven, and the wild birds, and the beasts of the field caught
the stray fruits and seed-dust, and bore the seed away, and scattered it in far-off soils.

And by-and-by, at a great great age, the tree at last began to cease to grow, and then to faint
and droop: its leaves were not so thick, its flowers were not so fragrant; and from time to
time the night winds, which before had passed away, and had been never heard, came moaning
and sighing among the branches. And the men for a while doubted and denied--they thought it
was the accident of the seasons; and then a branch fell, and they said it was a storm, and
such a storm as came but once in a thousand years. At last there could be no doubt that the
leaves were thin and sere and scanty--that the sun shone through them--that the fruit was tasteless.
But the generation was gone away which had known the tree in its beauty, and so men said it
was always so--its fruits were never better--its foliage never was thicker.

So things went on, and from time to time strangers would come among them, and would say, Why
are you sitting here under the old tree? there are young trees grown of the seed of this tree,
far away, more beautiful than it ever was; see, we have brought you leaves and flowers to show
you. But the men would not listen. They were angry, and some they drove away, and some they
killed, and poured their blood round the roots of the tree, saying, They have spoken evil of
our tree; let them feed it now with their blood. At last some of their own wiser ones brought
out specimens of the old fruits, which had been laid up to be preserved, and compared them
with the present bearing, and they saw that the tree was not as it had been; and such of them
as were good men reproached themselves, and said it was their own fault. They had not watered
it; they had forgotten to manure it. So, like their first fathers, they laboured with might
and main, and for a while it seemed as if they might succeed, and for a few years branches,
which were almost dead when the spring came round, put out some young green shoots again. But
it was only for a few years; there was not enough of living energy in the tree. Half the labour
which was wasted on it would have raised another nobler one far away. So the men grew soon
weary, and looked for a shorter way: and some gathered up the leaves and shoots which the strangers
had brought, and grafted them on, if perhaps they might grow; but they could not grow on a
dying stock, and they, too, soon drooped and became as the rest. And others said, Come, let
us tie the preserved fruits on again; perhaps they will join again to the stem, and give it
back its life. But there were not enough, for only a few had been preserved; so they took painted
paper and wax and clay, and cut sham leaves and fruits of the old pattern, which for a time
looked bright and gay, and the world, who did not know what had been done, said--See, the tree
is immortal: it is green again. Then some believed, but many saw that it was a sham, and liking
better to bear the sky and sun, without any shade at all, than to live in a lie, and call painted
paper leaves and flowers, they passed out in search of other homes. But the larger number stayed
behind; they had lived so long in falsehood that they had forgotten there was any such thing
as truth at all; the tree had done very well for them--it would do very well for their children.
And if their children, as they grew up, did now and then happen to open their eyes and see
how it really was, they learned from their fathers to hold their tongues about it. If the little
ones and the weak ones believed, it answered all purposes, and change was inconvenient. They
might smile to themselves at the folly which they countenanced, but they were discreet, and
they would not expose it. This is the state of the tree, and of the men who are under it at
this present time:--they say it still does very well. Perhaps it does--but, stem and boughs
and paper leaves, it is dry for the burning, and if the lightning touches it, those who sit
beneath will suffer.

COMPENSATION.

One day an Antelope was lying with her fawn at the foot of the flowering Mimosa. The weather
was intensely sultry, and a Dove, who had sought shelter from the heat among the leaves, was
cooing above her head.

'Happy bird!' said the Antelope. 'Happy bird! to whom the air is given for an inheritance,
and whose flight is swifter than the wind. At your will you alight upon the ground, at your
will you sweep into the sky, and fly races with the driving clouds; while I, poor I, am bound
a prisoner to this miserable earth, and wear out my pitiable life crawling to and fro upon
its surface.'

Then the Dove answered, 'It is sweet to sail along the sky, to fly from land to land, and coo
among the valleys; but, Antelope, when I have sate above amidst the branches and watched your
little one close its tiny lips upon your breast, and feed its life on yours, I have felt that
I could strip off my wings, lay down my plumage, and remain all my life upon the ground only
once to know such blessed enjoyment.'

The breeze sighed among the boughs of the Mimosa, and a voice came trembling out of the rustling
leaves: 'If the Antelope mourns her destiny, what should the Mimosa do? The Antelope is the
swiftest among the animals. It rises in the morning; the ground flies under its feet--in the
evening it is a hundred miles away. The Mimosa is feeding its old age on the same soil which
quickened its seed cell into activity. The seasons roll by me and leave me in the old place.
The winds sway among my branches, as if they longed to bear me away with them, but they pass
on and leave me behind. The wild birds come and go. The flocks move by me in the evening on
their way to the pleasant waters. I can never move. My cradle must be my grave.'

Then from below, at the root of the tree, came a voice which neither bird, nor Antelope, nor
tree had ever heard, as a Rock Crystal from its prison in the limestone followed on the words
of the Mimosa.

'Are ye all unhappy?' it said. 'If ye are, then what am I? Ye all have life. You! O Mimosa,
you! whose fair flowers year by year come again to you, ever young, and fresh, and beautiful--you
who can drink the rain with your leaves, who can wanton with the summer breeze, and open your
breast to give a home to the wild birds, look at me and be ashamed. I only am truly wretched.'

'Alas!' said the Mimosa, 'we have life, which you have not, it is true. We have also what you
have not, its shadow--death. My beautiful children, which year by year I bring out into being,
expand in their loveliness only to die. Where they are gone I too shall soon follow, while
you will flash in the light of the last sun which rises upon the earth.'

LONDON

PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE AND CO.

NEW-STREET SQUARE

Page 67: popositions: typo for propositions. Corrected.

Page 118: seventeeth: typo for seventeenth. Corrected.

Page 198: assults: typo for assaults. Corrected.

Page 279: reely: typo for freely. Corrected.

Page 300: appal: alternate spelling for appall.

Page 301: doggrel: alternate spelling for doggerel.

Page 316: throughly: alternate spelling for thoroughly.

Page 322: ougly: alternate spelling for ugly.

Page 329: rommaging: alternate spelling for rummaging.

Page 330: carged: In 'a huge high-carged' [May mean high-charged as with many weapons, or cargo,
as heavy freight?]

Page 330: enterchanged: alternate spelling for interchanged.

Page 408: befal: alternate spelling for befall.

Page 440: wanton: probably means to frolic or move freely in this context.

Page various: sate: alternate, archaic spelling for sat.

