In a far-off corner sat a little boy, poorly dressed, and of pallid countenance, but with a
keen and intelligent eye, which had attracted my notice from the beginning. The more difficult
the questions grew, his eye was fixed with the keener gaze on the face of the master. Several
times I observed a puzzled child cast backwards to him a look, as expressing the assurance
that he was able to solve all difficulties. At length, on a slight motion of the master's hand,
the little brown boy was seen to dart from his obscure recess, and pass rapidly across the
forms, while his companions eagerly made way for him, clapping their hands as in anticipation
of some brilliant achievement. In an instant, the boy stood before the master, his dark eye
full of anxious expression, but quite devoid of doubt or anxiety. All our attention was at
once directed to the half-clothed, barefooted child, to whom the questions were now put, and
by whom they were answered with a promptitude and precision most wonderful. And who, what was
he, that little brown boy? Some did not care to ask, and others said: 'Who would have thought
that that little beggar-boy would have been so smart!' But God has chosen the vile things (to
man) of this earth to become a bright and shining light to the world. We asked who that little
boy was, and the master smiled, shook his head, and said: 'Oh, I scarcely know myself: it is
a little boy the police have sent us in lately from the streets. It is not above three weeks
since he came, but he is a good and very clever child--very desirous to learn, and never forgets
anything!'

I was affected by this trivial circumstance, reflecting how many little brown boys like this
there must be in various countries called civilised, who, for want of a refuge where love and
light are predominant, remain the outcasts of the streets, and become the prey of vice and
ignorance.

THE LOSING GAME.

     [The following story is by no means a piece of mere
     invention. The principal points were narrated to me by a
     very intelligent young North-Sea fisherman, who had
     frequently heard the legend from a grizzled old sailor on
     board the smack in which he was an apprentice. The veteran
     used to tell the story as having happened to himself; and he
     had told it so often, that he firmly believed it, and used
     to get into a passion when any of the crew dared to doubt or
     laugh. I have, of course, licked the rough outlines of the
     story or anecdote into something like shape; but the main
     incidents are repeated to this day by the sailors of the
     'Barking Fleet,' as the squadron of handsome smacks are
     called, which, hailing from the town of Barking, in Essex,
     pursue the toilsome task, in all seasons, and almost in all
     weathers, of supplying the London market with North-Sea
     turbot, soles, and cod. The story is told in the first
     person, as Dick Hatch himself might have narrated it.]

Nigh forty years ago, mates, when I was as young and supple as the boy Bill, there--though
I was older than him by some years--I was serving my apprenticeship to the trade aboard the
sloop Lively Nan. There were not such big vessels in the trade then, mates, as now; but they
were tight craft, and manned by light fellows; and they did their work as well as the primest
clipper of the Barking Fleet. Well, the Lively Nan was about this quickest and most weatherly
of the whole fleet; and she had a great name for making the quickest runs between the fishing-grounds
and the river. But it wasn't owing so much to the qualities of the smack, as to the seamanship
of the skipper. A prime sailor he was, surely. There wasn't another man sailed out of the River
Thames who could handle a smack like Bob Goss. When he took the tiller, somehow the craft seemed
to know it, and bobbed up half a point nearer to the wind; and when we were running free with
the main-sheet eased off, and the foresail shivering, her wake would be as straight as her
mast; only, he was a rare fellow for carrying on, was old Captain Goss! We would be staggering
under a whole main-sail, when the other smacks had three reefs in theirs; and it was odds but
we had one line of reef-points triced up, when our neighbours would be going at it under storm-trysail
and storm-jib. He worked the Lively Nan hard, he did, did Captain Goss. Sweet, and wholesome,
and easy as she was--for she would rise to any sea, like as comfortable as a duck--Old Goss
all but drove her under. Dry jackets were scarce on board the Lively Nan. If there was as much
wind stirring as would whirl round the rusty old vane on the topmast head, 'Carry on, carry
on!' was always the captain's cry; and away we would bowl, half-a-dozen of the lee-streaks
of the deck under water.

