Those who have scanned with critical eye the cavalry regiments that have lately trooped through
our cities from various States of the Union, on their way to the banks of the Potomac, must
in candor, if with reluctance, acknowledge that we are not just yet a nation of horsemen. That
our troopers have got a knack of 'sticking on' we will admit; but there are ways of fulfilling
that necessary condition with more ease to the horse, more grace in the action, and more certainty
of being able to use the weapons with precision, than the present very unartistic method common
to horsemen generally in most parts of the country. Within a quarter of a century much improvement
has taken place in the system of equestrianism under which the cavalry riders of Europe are
instructed. Years ago, the long stirrups, such as our dragoons for the most part ride with,
were taken up some inches by the riding masters of the British and other foreign services.
It was the superior horsemanship of riders brought up in that best of all riding schools, the
fox-hunting field, that first drew the attention of cavalry teachers to the necessity of affording
a firmer appui to the horseman than he can obtain from stirrups, to keep his feet in contact
with which he is obliged to point his toes downward with painful perseverance. All the good
'hunting horsemen,' as they are termed, of England and Ireland, ride with short stirrups. So
do the Cossack cavalry, the best troop horsemen, perhaps, in the world. The Arab rides with
very short stirrups, which makes him look, when mounted, as if he were sitting on a low chair.
But the seat thus obtained by the Arab is not one for men who have to gallop across a country
intersected with fences and other obstacles. In stirrups, as in most other things, there is
a juste milieu; and if the American dragoon is on one side of that, so is the Arab of the Desert
on the other. The late Capt. Nolan, who fell in the famous charge of the Six Hundred at Balaklava,
did much to introduce a perfect system of horsemanship into cavalry regiments. He published
a work upon the subject, in which he advocates the short stirrup, and bases his system, generally,
upon the hunting style of horsemanship. We have seen some very bad riders among British cavalry
officers, brought up in the old-school method of seat and band. Indeed, some satirical writer
or another has said there are two professional classes to whom it is impossible to impart the
art of horsemanship--sailors and cavalry officers: but that was going a trifle too far, as
we have seen specimens of both the one and the other capable of acquitting themselves very
well 'across country,' which is the test, par excellence, of good riding. That was in later
days, however, and since the reforms of the riding master.

       *       *       *       *       *

In spite of some repulsive features, we insert the accompanying picture. The subject chosen
is not of that character which the highest genius loves to depict; yet it is vigorously drawn,
and doubtless true to nature. At the present time it may be useful as a fair representation
of many specimens of the boasted Southern cavalier.--F. P. S.

THE SOUTHERN COLONEL.

Strolling, one morning in 1847, into a Virginia barroom, I accosted a little, puffy-looking
man with "Major, can you"--whereupon, drawing up like a bantam, he snapped out, "You're mistaken;
I am a colonel;" the colonel being in those days as peculiar to Southern society as the cross
to southern constellations. I proceeded to anatomize this representative specimen.

