To-night she heard Justin's return from the automobile ride; apparently the machine had broken
down, but the accident seemed only to have added to the zest. Lois was still dressed and waiting
up for him. Then Girard came--he had seen the light in the window. Dosia could hear the murmuring
of the voices down-stairs--Girard's sent the blood leaping to her heart so fast that she pressed
her hands against it. For a moment his face seemed near, his lips almost touched hers--her
heart stopped before it went on again. Why had he come now? It seemed suddenly an unbearable
thing that those others down-stairs should see him and hear him, and that she could not. Why,
oh, why, had she gone to bed so early to-night of all nights? She was ready to cry with the
passion of a disappointment that seemed, not a little thing, but something crushing and calamitous,
a loss for which she never could be repaid. She could imagine Justin and Lois meeting the kind
glances of those gray eyes, smiling when he did. He was beautiful when he smiled! She was within
a few yards of him, but convention, absurd yet maddening, held her in its chains. She couldn't
get dressed and break in upon their intimate conference--or it seemed as if she could not.
Besides, he would probably go very soon. But he did not go! After a while she could lie there
no longer. She crept out upon the landing of the stairs, and sat there desolately on the top
step, "in her long night-gown, sweet as boughs of May," with her little bare feet curled over
each other, and her hands clasping the balustrade against which her cheek was pressed, watching
and waiting for him to go. The ends of her long fair hair fell into large loose curls where
it hung over her shoulder, as she bent to listen--and to listen--and to listen.

"I want to be there, too--I want to be there, too!" she whispered, with quivering lips, in
her voice the sobbing catch of a very little child. "I want to be there, too. They're having
it all--without me. And I want to be there, too. They might have called me to come down, and
they didn't." They might have called her! All her passion, all her philosophy, all her endurance,
melted into that one desire. If she had only known at first that he was going to stay so long,
she would have dressed and gone down. She could hardly bear it a moment longer.

After a while a door on the landing of the second story below opened, and a little figure crept
out--Zaidee. She stood irresolute in the hall, looking down; then she looked up, and, seeing
Dosia, ran to her and climbed into her lap, resting her little pigtailed head confidingly against
Dosia's warm young shoulder.

"They woke me up," she said placidly. "Did they woke you up, too, Cousin Dosia?"

"Yes," said Dosia, hugging the child close. "Hush! some one is coming; you'll get sent to bed
again." This time it was Lois. Her abstracted gaze seemed to take in the two on the upper stairway
as a matter of course.

"Oh, it's you, is it?" she said. "I thought I heard some one talking." She rested on the post
below, looking up. "I came to see if you'd take Zaidee in with you for the rest of the night,
Dosia. I want to give Justin's room to Mr. Girard."

"Is he going to stay?" asked Dosia.

"Yes. It's too late for him to disturb the Snows, and he's been traveling all day; he's dreadfully
tired. He wanted to sleep on the sofa down-stairs, but I wouldn't let him." She was carrying
Zaidee, already half asleep again, in her arms as she talked, depositing her in Dosia's bed,
while Dosia followed her.

"Did he sell the island?" asked Dosia.

Lois shook her head. "No. They may really sell it next week, but not now--only that will be
too late to save the business. Of course, Mr. Girard doesn't know that, and Justin will not
tell him--he says Mr. Girard cannot help. Oh, Dosia, when Justin came in from that ride he
looked so well, and now--" She covered her face with her hands, before recovering herself.
"It's time you were both asleep."

"Can't I help you?" asked Dosia; but Lois only answered indifferently, "No, it's not necessary,"
and went around making arrangements, while Dosia, with Zaidee nestling close to her, slept at last.

It was late the next morning before Girard came down. Justin had had breakfast, and gone; Lois
was up-stairs with the children, and Dosia, who had been tidying up the place, was arranging
some flowers in the vases when he strode in. There was no vestige of that sick-hearted, imploring
maiden of the night before; no desolate frenzy was to be seen in this trim, neat, capable little
figure, clad in blue gingham, that made her throat very white, her hair very fair. Something
in Girard's glance seemed to show an instant pleasure that she should be the one to greet him,
but he bent anxiously over the watch he held in his hand.

"Will you tell me what time it is? My watch has stopped."

"It's half-past nine," said Dosia.

"Half-past nine!" He looked at her in a sort of quick, horrified arraignment. "What do you
mean?" His eye fell upon the clock, and conviction seemed to steal upon him against his will.
"Heavens and earth, why wasn't I called? On this morning of all others, when every moment's
of importance! I thought I asked particularly to be waked early."

"I suppose they thought you were tired and needed the rest," apologized Dosia.

"Needed the rest!" His tone was poignant; he looked outraged; but his anger was entirely impersonal--there
was in it even a sort of boyish appeal to her, as if she must feel it, too.

"You had better sit down and have some breakfast."

"Oh, breakfast!" His gesture deprecated her evident intention. "Please don't. Thank you very
much, but I don't want any breakfast; I only want to get to town."

"There isn't any train for twenty-five minutes, so you might as well sit down and eat," said
Dosia firmly. "Come out to this little table on the piazza." She led the way to the screened
corner at the end, sweet with the honeysuckle that swung its long loops in the wind, and faced
him sternly. "Do you take coffee?"

"Please don't, please don't cook me anything! I'd hate to trouble you." He seemed so distressed
that she relented a little.

"A glass of milk and some fruit, then; you'll have to take that."

"Very well--if I must. Can't I get the things myself?"

"No." She ran away to get them for him, with some new joy singing in her heart as she went
backward and forward, bringing a pitcher of milk, a glass, a dish of strawberries, some cream,
and the sugar, sitting down herself by the table afterward as he ate and drank. He gave her
a sudden smile, so surprised and pleased that the color surged in her cheeks.

"I'm not used to this," he said simply. "What is that dress you have on--silk?"

"No, it's cotton; do you like it?"

"Very much. Oh, please don't get up--Zaidee wasn't calling you. I won't eat another mouthful
unless you stay just where you are--please!"

"Well!" said Dosia, with laughing pleasure.

"Besides, I've been wanting to consult you about the Alexanders," he went on, leaning across
the table toward her, intimately. "It's so beautiful to see them together, that to feel that
they're in trouble distresses me beyond words. You're so near to them both, I thought that
perhaps"--His face clouded partly. "Do you know anything about the real state of Mr. Alexander's
affairs?"

Dosia shook her head. "No; only that he is very much worried over them."

"He wanted to sell the island; he sent me off on that business lately. He'll sell it sometime,
of course, but I don't know how complicating the delay is. He's the kind of man you can't ask;
you have to wait until he tells you. You can't make a person have confidence in you. Won't
you please have some of these strawberries with me? Do!"

"No; you must eat them all," said Dosia, with charming authority, her arms before her on the
table, elbow-sleeved, white and dimpled, as she regarded him. He seemed to take up all the
corner, against the background of the green honeysuckle in the fresh morning light. With that
smile upon his face, he seemed extraordinarily masculine and absorbing, yet appealing, too.

Dosia felt carried out of herself by a sudden heady resolution--or, rather, not a new resolution,
but one that she had had in mind for a long, long time, before, oh, before she had even known
who this man was. She had planned over and over again how she was to say those words, and now
the time had come. She could not sit here with him in this new, sweet friendliness without
saying them. She had imagined the scene in so many different ways! When she had gone over it
by herself, her cheeks had flushed, her eyes had shone with the tears in them. The words as
she spoke them had gone deeply, convincingly, from heart to heart--or perhaps, in an assumed,
tremulous lightness, the meaning in her impulse had shown all the clearer to one who understood.
For a year and a half the uttered thought had been the climax to which her dreams had led;
it would have seemed a monstrous, impossible thing that it had not been reached before.

She began now, in a moment's pause, only to find, too late, that all warmth and naturalness
had left her with the effort. Fluent dream-practice is only too apt to make one uncomfortably
crude and conscious in real life.

"I want to thank you for being so kind to me the night of that accident on the train coming
up from the South." Poor Dosia instantly felt committed to a mistake. Her eyes fell for a moment
on his hand, as it lay upon the table, with a terribly disconcerting remembrance that hers
had not only rested in it, but that in fancy she had more than once pillowed her cheek upon
it, and, knowing that he had seen the look, she continued in desperation, with still increasing
stiffness and formality: "I have always known, of course, that it was you. You must pardon
me for not thanking you before."

The old unapproachable manner instantly incased him, as if in remembrance of something that
hurt. "Oh, pray don't mention it," he said, with a formality that matched hers. "It was nothing
but what anyone would have done--little enough, anyway."

What happened afterward she did not know, except that in a few minutes he had gone.

She watched him go off down the path with that swift, long, easy step; watched till the last
vestige of the gray suit was out of sight--he had a fashion of wearing gray!--before clearing
off the table. Then she went and sat on the back steps that led into the little garden, bright
with the sunshine and a blaze of tulips at her feet....

She had never supposed that any girl could care for a man until he had shown that he cared
for her--it was the unmaidenly, impossible thing. And now--how beautiful he was, how dear!
A wistful smile trembled around her lips. All that had gone before with other men suddenly
became as nothing, forgotten and out of mind, and she herself made clean by this purifying
fire. Even if she never had anything more in her whole life, she had this--even if she never
had anything more. Yet what had she? Nothing and less than nothing. If he had ever thought
of her, if he had ever dreamed of her, if her soft, frightened hand trustfully clinging fast
to his, only to be comforted by his touch, had been a sign and a symbol to him of some dearer
trust and faith for him alone--if in some way, as she dimly visioned it, the thought had once
been his, it had gone long ago. Every action showed it. And yet, and yet--so unconquerably
does the soul speak that, though he might deny her attraction for him, she knew that she had
it. It was something to which he might never give way, but it was unalterably there--as it
was unalterably there with her. All that year at home, when she believed she had not been thinking
of him, she really had been thinking of him. We learn to know each other sometimes in long
absences. She began to perceive in him now a humility and a pride strangely at variance with
each other and both equally at variance with the bright assurance of his outer manner. He gave
to every one; he would work early and late for others, in his yearning sympathy and affection:
yet he himself, from the very intenseness of his desire for it, stood aloof, and drew back
from the insistence of any claim for himself. They might meet a hundred times and grow no closer;
they might grow farther and farther away.

Dosia felt that other women must have loved him--how could they have helped it? She had a pang
of sorrow for them--for herself it made no difference. If she had pain for all her life afterward,
she was glad at this moment that he was worthy to be loved; she need never be ashamed of loving
him--he was "good." The word seemed to contain some beautiful comfort and uplifting. No matter
what experience he had passed through in his struggle with the world, he had held some simple,
honorable, clean quality intact. The Dosia who must always have some heart-warm dream to live
by had it now; for all her life she could love him, pray for him. She had always thought that
to love was to be happy; now she was to love and be unhappy--yet she would not have it otherwise.

So slight, so young, so lightly dealt with, Dosia had the pathetically clear insight and the
power that comes to those who see, not themselves alone, their own desires and hopes, but the
universe in which they stand, and view their acts and thoughts in relation to it. She must
see Truth, "and be glad, even if it hurt."

The sunshine fell upon her in the garden; she was bathed in it. Whether she had nights of straining,
bitter wakefulness and days of heartache afterward, this joy of loving was enough for her to-day--the
joy of loving him. She saw in that lovely, brooding thought of him what that first meeting
had taught of his character, and molded in with it her knowledge of him now, to make the real
man far more imperfect, though far dearer. Yet, if he ever loved her as she loved him, part
of that for which she had always sought love would have to be foregone--she could never come
to him, as she had fondly dreamed of doing, and pour out to him all those hopes and fears,
those struggles and mistakes and trials and indignities, the shame and the penitence that had
been hers. She could never talk of Lawson--her past must be forever unshriven and uncomforted.
Bailey Girard would be the last man on earth to whom she could bare her heart in confession;
these were the things that touched him on the raw. He "hated the sound of Lawson's name." How
many times had George Sutton's face blotted out hers? If he knew that! She must forever be
unshriven. There would be things also, perhaps, that she could not bear to hear! The eternal
hurt of love, that it never can be truly one with the beloved, touched her with its sadness,
and then slipped away in the thought of him now--not the man who was just to help and protect
her with his love, but the man whom she longed to help also. His pleased eyes, his lips, the
way his hair fell over his forehead--She thought of him with the fond dream-passion of the
maiden, that is often the shyest thing on earth, ready to veil itself and turn and elude and
hide at the first chance that it may be revealed.

"Dosia! Dosia, where are you?"

Suddenly she saw that the sunshine had faded out, the sky had grown gray, a chill wind had
sprung up. All the trouble, all the stress of the world, seemed to encompass her with that
tone in the voice of Lois.

XXVI

"Justin has come home ill; he was taken with a chill as soon as he got to town; he came in
a carriage from the station. I want you to telephone for the doctor, and ask him to get here
as soon as he can." Lois spoke with rapid distinctness, stooping as she did so to pick up the
scattered toys on the floor and push the chairs into place, as one who mechanically attends
to the usual duties of routine, no matter what may be happening. "And, Dosia!" she arrested
the girl as she was disappearing, "I may not be down-stairs again. Will you see about what
we need for meals? My pocket-book is in the desk. And see about the children. They're in the
nursery now, but I'll send them down; they had better play outdoors, where he won't hear them."

"Oh, yes, yes; I'll attend to everything," affirmed Dosia hurriedly, going off for her first
duty at the telephone, while Lois disappeared up-stairs. For a man to stop work and come home
because he is not well argues at once the most serious need for it. It is the public crossing
of the danger zone.

With all her anxiety, Dosia was filled now with a wondering knowledge of something unnatural
about Lois, not to be explained by the fact of Justin's illness. There was something newly
impassioned in the duskiness of her eyes, in the fulness of her red lips, in every sweeping
movement of her body, which seemed caused by the obsession of a hidden fiery force that held
her apart and afar, goddess-like, even while she spoke of and handled the things of every-day
life. She looked at the common-place surroundings, at the children, at Dosia; but she saw only
Justin. When she was beside him, she smiled into his gentle, stricken eyes, telling him little
fondly-foolish anecdotes of the children to make him smile also; patting him, talking of the
summer, when they would go off together--anything to make him forget, even though the effort
left her breathless afterward. When she went out of the room and came back again, she found
him still watching the place where she had been with haggard, feverish, burning eyes. He would
not go to bed, but lay on the outside of it in his dressing-gown, so that he might get ready
the more quickly to go downtown again if the doctor "fixed him up," though now he felt weighted
from head to foot with stones.

There was a ring at the door-bell in the middle of the morning, which might have been the doctor,
but which turned out surprisingly to be Mr. Angevin L. Cater.

"I heard Mr. Alexander was taken ill this morning and had gone home, and as I had to come out
this way on business, I thought I'd just drop in and see if there was anything I could do for
him in town," he stated to Dosia.

"I'll find out," said Dosia, and came down in a moment with the word that Justin would like
to see the visitor.

Cater himself looked extraordinarily lean and yellow. The fact that his clothes were new and
of a fashionable cut seemed only to make him the more grotesque. He looked oddly shrunken;
the quality of his smile of greeting seemed to have shrunk also--something had gone out of it.

"Well, Cater, you find me down," said Justin, with glittering, cold cheerfulness.

"I hope not for long," said the visitor.

"Oh, no; but, when I get up, you won't see me going past much longer. I'll soon be out of the
old place. I guess the game is up, as far as I'm concerned. Your end is ahead."

"Mr. Alexander," began Cater, clearing his throat and bending earnestly toward Justin, "I hope
you ain't going to hold it up against me that I had to make a different business deal from
what we proposed. I've been thinking about it a powerful lot. There wasn't any written agreement,
you know."

"No, there was no written agreement," assented Justin; "there was nothing to bind you."

"That's what I said to myself. If there had been, I'd 'a' stuck to it, of course. But a man's
got to do the best he can for himself in this world."

"Has he?" asked the sick man, with an enigmatic, questioning smile.

"I'd be mighty sorry to have anything come between us. I reckon I took a shine to you the first
day I met up with you," continued Cater helplessly. "I'd be mighty sorry to think we weren't
friends."

Justin's brilliant eyes surveyed him serenely. Something sadly humorous, yet noble and imposing,
seemed to emanate from his presence, weak and a failure though he was. "I can be friends with
you, but you can't be friends with me, Cater; it isn't in you to know how," he said. "Good-by."

"Well, good-by," said the other, rising, his long, angular figure knocking awkwardly against
chairs and tables as he went out, leaving Justin lying there alone, with his head throbbing
horribly. Yet, strangely enough, in spite of it, his mind felt luminously clear, in that a
certain power seemed to have come to him--a power of correlating all the events of the past
eighteen months and placing them in their relative sequence. A certain faith--the candid, boyish,
unquestioning faith in the adequacy of his knowledge of those whom he had called his friends--was
gone; the face of Leverich came to him, brutal in its unveiled cupidity, showing what other
men felt but concealed; yet his own faith in honor and honesty remained, stronger and higher
than ever before. Nothing, he knew, could take it from him; it was a faith that he had won
from the battle with his own soul.

By to-morrow night that note of Lewiston's would be protested, and then--the burning pain of
failure gripped him in its racking clutches once more, though he strove to fight it off. He
would have to get well quickly, so as to begin to hustle for a small clerkship somewhere, to
get bread for Lois and the babies. Men of his age who were successful were sought for, but
men of his age who were not had a pretty hard row to hoe.

Lois was long gone--probably she was with the baby. He missed his handkerchief, and rose and
went over, with a swaying unsteadiness, to his chiffonier drawer in the farther corner to get
one. A pistol lying there in its leather case, as it had done any time this five years, for
a reserve protection against burglars, caught his eyes. He took it out of its case, examining
the little weapon carefully, with his finger on the trigger, half cocking it, to see if it
needed oil. It was a pretty little toy. Suddenly, as he held it there, leaning against the
chiffonier, his thin white face with its deep black shadows under the eyes reflected by the
high, narrow glass, the four walls faded away from him, with their familiar objects; his face
gleamed whiter and whiter; the shadows grew blacker; only his eyes stared----

A room, noticed once a year and a half ago, came before him now with a creeping, all-possessing
distinctness--that loathsome, dreadful room (long since renovated) which, with its unmentionable
suggestion of horror, had held him spellbound on that morning when he had begun his career
at the factory. It held him spellbound now, evilly, insidiously. He stood by that blackened,
ashy hearth in the foul room, with its damp, mottled, rotting walls, his eyes fastened on that
hideous sofa to which he was drawn--drawn a little nearer and a little nearer, the thing in
his hand--did it move itself? Cold to his touch, it moved----

The door opened, and Lois, with a face of awful calm, glided up to him. She took the pistol
from his relaxed hold; her lips refused to speak.

"Why, you needn't have been afraid, dear," he said at once, looking at her with a gentle surprise.
"I'm not a coward, to go and leave you that way. You need never be afraid of that, Lois."

"No," said Lois, with smiling, white lips. She could not have told what made the frantic, overmastering
fear, under the impulse of which she had suddenly thrown the baby down on the bed and fled
to Justin--what strange force of thought-transference, imagined or real, had called her there.

She busied herself making him comfortable, divining his wants and getting things for him, simply
and noiselessly, and then knelt down beside him where he lay, putting her arms around him.

"You oughtn't to be doing this for me; I ought to be taking care of you," he said, with a tender
self-reproach that seemed to come from a new, hitherto unknown Justin, who watched her face
to see if it showed fatigue, and counted the steps she took for him.

The doctor came, and sent him off sternly to bed, and came again later. The last time he looked
grave, ordered complete quiet, and left sedatives to insure it. Grip, brought on by overwork,
had evidently taken a disregarded hold some time before, and must be reckoned with now. What
Mr. Alexander imperatively needed was rest, and, above all things, freedom from care. Freedom
from care!

Every footfall was taken to-day with reference to this. An impression of Justin as of something
noble and firm seemed to emanate from the room where he lay and fill the house; in his complete
abdication, he dominated as never before. More than that, there seemed to be a peculiar poignancy,
a peculiar sweetness, in every little thing done for him; it made one honorable to serve him.

The light was still brightly that of day at a quarter of seven, when Dosia, who had been putting
Zaidee and Redge to bed, came into Lois' room, and found her with crimson cheeks and eyes red
from weeping. At Dosia's entrance she rose at once from her chair, and Dosia saw that she was
partially dressed in her walking-skirt; she flared out passionately in speech as she was crossing
the room, as if in answer to some implied criticism:

"I don't care what you say--I don't care what anybody says. I can't stand it any longer, when
it's killing him! He can't rest unless he has that money. Am I to just sit down and let my
husband die, when he's in such trouble as this? Is that all I can do? Why, whose trouble is
it? Mine as well as his! If it's his responsibility, it's mine, too--mine as well as his!"

She hit her soft hand against the sharp edge of the table, and was unconscious that it bled.
"If there's nobody else to get that money for him, I'll rise up and get it. He's stood alone
long enough--long enough! He says there is no help left, but he forgets that there's his wife!"

"Oh, Lois," said Dosia, half weeping. "Oh, Lois, what can you do? There, you've waked the baby--he's
crying."

"Get me the waist to this and my walking-jacket. No, give me the baby first; he's hungry."

She spoke collectedly, bending over the child as she held him to her, and straightening the
folds of the little garments. "There, there, dear little heart, dear little heart, mother's
comfort--oh, my comfort, my blessing! Get my things out of the closet now, Dosia, and my gloves
from that drawer, the top one. Oh, and get out baby's cloak and cap, too. I forgot that I couldn't
leave him. I must take him with me." She sank her voice to a low murmur, so as not to disturb
the child.

"Where are you going?" asked Dosia.

"To Eugene Larue."

"Mr. Larue!"

"Yes. He'll let me have the money--he'll understand. He wouldn't let Justin have it, but he'll
give it to me--if I'm not too proud to ask for it; and I'm not too proud." She spoke in a tone
the more thrilling for its enforced calm. "There are things a man will do for a woman, when
he won't for a man, because then he has to be businesslike; but he doesn't have to be businesslike
to a woman--he can lend to her just because she needs it.