Divide an ox tail into lengths of an inch and a half; melt an ounce of butter in a stew pan
and fry the pieces in this, turning them about for five minutes. Add two quarts of stock or
water and bring gently to a boil. Throw in a teaspoonful of salt, and carefully remove the
scum as it rises. Add a carrot, a turnip and an onion with two cloves stuck in it, a little
celery, a blade of mace and a small bouquet of garum. Stew gently two and one half hours. Strain
the soup and put the pieces of ox tail in cold water to free them of fat. Mix an ounce and
one half of flour smoothly with a little cold water, add to the stock and simmer for twenty
minutes. Add a little cayenne, a few drops of lemon juice and a glass of port wine if liked
and serve.

OYSTER SOUP.

MISS MIRIAM STRANG.

CREAM OF PEA SOUP.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

One tin of peas and one pint of water, a very small piece of onion, let it boil about twenty
minutes, strain and mash through sieve. Two tablespoonfuls of butter, and one of flour, well
blended together. Add that to the peas. Last of all add a pint or more of boiling milk. Put
on the stove till it thickens, but be careful not to let it boil.

PALESTINE SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

Wash and pare two pounds of artichokes and put them in a stewpan with a slice of butter, two
or three strips of bacon rind, which have been scalded and scraped and two bay leaves. Put
the lid on the stew pan and let the vegetables "sweat" over the fire for eight or ten minutes,
shaking the pan occasionally to keep them from sticking. Pour on water to cover the artichokes
and stew gently till soft. Rub them through a sieve, mix the liquor they were boiled in with
them, make the soup hot and add boiling milk until it is as thick as double cream. Add pepper
and salt to taste. Just before serving, mix with the soup a quarter of a pint of hot cream.
This addition will be a valuable one, but may be dispensed with.

PUREE DE PETIT POIS.

MISS STEVENSON.

One pint green peas, two yolks of egg, one gill cream, one and one half pints stock, salt and
pepper. Strain the liquid from the peas, put them with the stock in a saucepan and simmer twenty
minutes; pass them through a sieve, pour back to the pan, add yolks, cream, pepper and salt,
and stir over the fire until it begins to thicken; do not allow it to boil. A spray of mint
boiled with the peas is a great improvement.

PUREE DE VEAU.

Four ounces pounded veal, one pint stock, one ounce butter, one ounce flour, yolks of two eggs,
few drops of lemon juice, one half pint whipped cream. Mix veal and butter together in a saucepan,
add flour, then by degrees the stock (hot) just boil up. Mix yolks and add little by little
the cream, a few drops of cochineal, salt and pepper, pour over this the contents of the saucepan
very carefully.

TOMATO SOUP.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pint of stewed tomatoes, add a pinch of soda, stir till it ceases foaming, then add one
pint boiling water and one pint of milk, strain and put on the stove and when near boiling,
add a tablespoonful of cornstarch, wet it with a little cold milk, one tablespoon butter, a
little pepper and salt to taste.

TOMATO SOUP.

MISS EDITH HENRY.

Take a tin of tomatoes and add half a pint of water. Let this boil for half an hour till the
tomatoes are well broken. Add a tablespoonful of cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold water
and mix well. Flavor with salt and pepper to taste, and half a small onion. Then add a quart
of milk. Let this boil and stir well, so that it will mix, and be careful that it does not
burn on the bottom of the pan.

TURKISH SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

