It is evident from this chapter that if we would understand Henry Ward Beecher and the influences
that went to the formation of his character and to the success of his life, other things than
parentage, home, school, or nature must be taken into the account.  The vast things of the
invisible realm have begun to speak to him, and his nature has proved to be peculiarly sensitive
to their influence.

He is thus early groping, unresting, and unsatisfied; but it is among mountains, and not in
marshes or quicksands.  Some day these mountain truths, among which he now wanders in darkness,
shall be radiant in his sight with the Divine Compassion, and his gloom shall give place to
abiding love, joy, and peace.

It was in 1827, and Henry was fourteen years old, when he entered the Mount Pleasant Institute.
"He was admitted to the institution at a price about half the usual charge, for one hundred
dollars per year. His appearance was robust and healthy, rather inclined to fulness of form,
with a slight pink tinge on his cheeks and a frequent smile upon his face.  In his manners
and communications he was quiet, orderly, and respectful.  He was a good-looking youth."  This
is the testimony of one of his teachers, Mr. George Montague.

"I think he must have been fond of children, for he was always ready for a frolic with me.
I don't remember how he spoke, except that he talked a good deal and was full of life and fun."
So says a friend in whose home he boarded, in a letter written during the past year.

No place could have been better fitted to the condition of the boy, as he then was, than the
one chosen.  He was tired of the city with its brick walls, stone pavements, and artificial
restrictions, and longed for the freedom and the freshness of the country.  Amherst at that
time was only a small village, fighting back with indifferent success the country that pressed
in upon it from every side, and offering this city-sick lad, almost within a stone's throw
of the school, the same kind of fields and forests that were around him at Litchfield, and
spreading out for him a landscape equal in beauty to that of his childhood home.

Besides, he has an object in view that stirs his blood.  He is to fit himself for the navy;
his father has promised his influence to get him an appointment, if wanted, and Admiral Nelson
and all other brave admirals and commodores are his models.  For the first time in his life
he takes hold of study with enthusiasm.

The institution was very popular in its day, and a great advance upon the old academy.  It
was semi-military in its methods, and in its government there was great thoroughness without
severity.  Its teachers possessed superior qualifications, and all were men of great kindness
as well as of marked ability.  Among them were two men who especially had great influence in
directing his energies and preparing him not only for Amherst College but for the greater work
beyond, and who were ever remembered by him with the deepest gratitude.

The first of these was W. P. Fitzgerald, the teacher of mathematics at Mount Pleasant School:

"He taught me to conquer in studying.  There is a very hour in which a young nature, tugging,
discouraged, and weary with books, rises with the consciousness of victorious power into masterhood.
For ever after he knows that he can learn anything if he pleases.  It is a distinct intellectual
conversion.

"I first went to the blackboard, uncertain, soft, full of whimpering. 'That lesson must be
learned,' he said, in a very quiet tone, but with a terrible intensity and with the certainty
of Fate.  All explanations and excuses he trod under foot with utter scornfulness.  'I want
that problem.  I don't want any reasons why I don't get it.'

"'I did study it two hours.'

"'That's nothing to me; I want the lesson.  You need not study it at all, or you may study
it ten hours--just to suit yourself.  I want the lesson.  Underwood, go to the blackboard!'

"'Oh! yes, but Underwood got somebody to show him his lesson.'

"'What do I care how you get it?  That's your business.  But you must have it.'

"It was tough for a green boy, but it seasoned him.  In less than a month I had the most intense
sense of intellectual independence and courage to defend my recitations.

"In the midst of a lesson his cold and calm voice would fall upon me in the midst of a demonstration--'No!'
I hesitated, stopped, and then went back to the beginning; and, on reaching the same spot again,
'No!' uttered with the tone of perfect conviction, barred my progress.  'The next!' and I sat
down in red confusion.  He, too, was stopped with 'No!' but went right on, finished, and, as
he sat down, was rewarded with, 'Very well.'

"'Why,' whimpered I, 'I recited it just as he did, and you said No!'

"'Why didn't you say Yes, and stick to it?  It is not enough to know your lesson.  You must
know that you know it.  You have learned nothing until you are sure.  If all the world says
No, your business is to say Yes and to prove it!'"

The other helper of this period was John E. Lovell.

In a column of the Christian Union, of July 14, 1880, devoted to "Inquiring Friends," appeared
this question with the accompanying answer:

"We heard Mr. Beecher lecture recently in Boston and found the lecture a grand lesson in elocution.
If Mr. Beecher would give through the column of 'Inquiring Friends' the methods of instruction
and practice pursued by him, it would be very thankfully received by a subscriber and student.

"E. D. M."

"H. W. B."

Mr. Montague says: "Mr. Beecher submitted to Mr. Lovell's drilling and training with a patience
which proved his interest in the study to be great.  The piece which was to be spoken was committed
to memory from Mr. Lovell's mouth, the pupil standing on the stage before him, and every sentence
and word, accent and pronunciation, position and movement of the body, glance of the eye and
tone of voice, all were subjects of study and criticism.  And day after day, often for several
weeks in continuance, Mr. Beecher submitted to this drilling upon the same piece, until his
teacher pronounced him perfect."

His dramatic power was displayed and noted at this early period.  Dr. Thomas Field, a classmate
in the school, says: "One incident occurred during our residence in Mount Pleasant which left
an abiding impression on my mind.  At the exhibition at the close of the year, either 1828
or 1829, the drama of 'William Tell' was performed by some of the students, and your father
took the part of the tyrant Gessler. Although sixty years have passed, I think now, as I thought
then, that it was the most impressive performance I ever witnessed. . . ."

In a letter dated December 24, 1828, addressed to his sister Harriet--the first that has come
to our hands from Mount Pleasant--he gives some account of his manner of life at school, and
various experiences:

DEAR SISTER:

. . . . I have to rise in the morning at half-past five o'clock, and after various little duties,
such as fixing of room, washing, etc., which occupies about an hour, we proceed to breakfast,
from thence to chapel, after which we have about ten minutes to prepare for school. Then we
attend school from eight to twelve.  An hour at noon is allowed for diversions of various sorts.
Then dinner.  After that school from half-past one to half-past four.  At night we have about
an hour and a half; then tea.  After tea we have about ten minutes; then we are called to our
rooms till nine.

Now I will tell you how I occupy my spare time in reading, writing, and playing the flute.
We are forming a band here.  I shall play either the flute or hautboy.  I enjoy myself pretty
well.  In Latin I am studying Sallust.  As to ease, all I have to do is study straight ahead.
It comes pretty easy.  My Greek is rather hard.  I am as yet studying the grammar and Jacob's
Greek Reader.  In elocution, we read and speak alternately every other day.

. . . . I find it hard to keep as a Christian ought to.  To be sure, I find delight in prayer,
but I cannot find time to be alone sufficiently.  We have in our room only two, one besides
myself, but he is most of my play-hours practising on some instrument or other.  I have some
time, to be sure, but it is very irregular, and I never know when I shall have an opportunity
for private devotions until the time comes.  I do not like to read the Bible as well as to
pray, but I suppose it is the same as it is with a lover, who loves to talk with his mistress
in person better than to write when she is afar off. . . .

Your affectionate brother,
  HENRY.

His religious experience, of which we have heard nothing, since he left Litchfield, the life
in Boston apparently not being very favorable to it, again attracts our attention at this point.
He says:

"When I was fourteen years of age, I left Boston and went to Mount Pleasant.  There broke out
while I was there one of those infectious religious revivals which have no basis of judicious
instruction, but spring from inexperienced zeal.  It resulted in many mushroom hopes, and I
had one of them; but I do not know how or why I was converted.  I only know I was in a sort
of day-dream, in which I hoped I had given myself to Christ.

"I wrote to father expressing this hope; he was overjoyed, and sent me a long, kind letter
on the subject.  But in the course of three or four weeks I was nearly over it; and I never
shall forget how I felt, not long afterward, when a letter from father was handed me in which
he said I must anticipate my vacation a week or two and come home and join the Church on the
next Communion Sabbath.  The serious feelings I had were well-nigh gone, and I was beginning
to feel quite jolly again, and I did not know what to do.  I went home, however, and let them
take me into the Church.  A kind of pride and shamefacedness kept me from saying I did not
think I was a Christian, and so I was made a Church member."

Unsatisfactory in many respects as was his religious experience, it seems to have been powerful
enough to change his whole ideal of life. We hear no more of his becoming a sailor.  He appears
to have yielded to the inevitable, and henceforth studies with the ministry in view.

That he became a minister, as did his brothers, by reason of the unswerving faith and prayer
of the parents, is already well known. "Out of six sons not one escaped from the pulpit.  My
mother dedicated me to the work of the foreign missionary; she laid her hands upon me, wept
over me, and set me apart to preach the Gospel among the heathen, and I have been doing it
all my life long, for it so happens one does not need to go far from his own country to find
his audience before him."

Ushered into the preparation for the ministry by the parental faith, stumbling and discouraged
and ready to give up the work, another hand was not wanting to open still more clearly the
way, draw back the curtains, and let in the light:

"I beheld Him as a helper, as the soul's mid-wife, as the soul's physician, and I felt because
I was weak I could come to Him; because I did not know how, and, if I did know, I had not the
strength, to do the things that were right--that was the invitation that He gave to me out
of my conscious weakness and want.  I will not repeat the scene of that morning when light
broke fairly on my mind; how one might have thought that I was a lunatic escaped from confinement;
how I ran up and down through the primeval forest of Ohio, shouting, 'Glory, glory!' sometimes
in loud tones and at other times whispered in an ecstasy of joy and surprise.  All the old
troubles gone, and light breaking in on my mind, I cried: 'I have found my God; I have found
my God!'  From that hour I consecrated myself to the work of the ministry anew, for before
that I had about made up my mind to go into some other profession."

His early training school for effective preaching was well selected. It was, as is well known,
one of the little villages on the banks of the Ohio River, where the wants of river bargemen
and frontiersmen demanded his attention.  It was there he decided what his life work should be.

"My business shall be to save men, and to bring to bear upon them those views that are my comfort,
that are the bread of life to me; and I went out among them almost entirely cut loose from
the ordinary church institutions and agencies, knowing nothing but 'Christ, and Him crucified,'
the sufferer for mankind.  Did not the men round me need such a Saviour?  Was there ever such
a field as I found?  Every sympathy of my being was continually solicited for the ignorance,
for the rudeness, for the aberrations, for the avarice, for the quarrelsomeness of the men
among whom I was, and I was trying every form and presenting Christ as a medicine to men. 
I went through the woods and through camp-meetings and over prairies.  Everywhere my vacations
were all missionary tours, preaching Christ for the hope of salvation.  I am not saying this
to show you how I came to the knowledge of Christ, but to show you how I came to the habits
and forms of my ministry.  I tried everything on to folks."

Added to the forces of experience and surroundings was always that of his own personal, natural
endowment.  This he found fault with and tried to change, as most people do at some period
of their lives, but finally accepted and concluded to use as best he could, without murmuring,
but always conscious of its limitations.

"I have my own peculiar temperament, I have my own method of preaching, and my method and temperament
necessitate errors.  I am not worthy to be related in the hundred-thousandth degree to those
more happy men who never make a mistake in the pulpit.  I make a great many.  I am impetuous.
I am intense at times on subjects that deeply move me.  I feel as though all the ocean were
not strong enough to be the power beyond my words, nor all the thunders that were in the heavens,
and it is of necessity that such a nature as that should give such intensity at times to parts
of doctrine as to exaggerate them when you come to bring them into connection with a more rounded-out
and balanced view. I know it--I know it as well as you do.  I would not do it if I could help
it; but there are times when it is not I that is talking, when I am caught up and carried away
so that I know not whether I am in the body or out of the body, when I think things in the
pulpit that I never could think in the study, and when I have feelings that are so far different
from any that belong to the lower or normal condition that I neither can regulate them nor
understand them.  I see things and I hear sounds, and seem, if not in the seventh heaven, yet
in a condition that leads me to understand what Paul said--that he heard things which it was
not possible for a man to utter.  I am acting under such a temperament as that.  I have got
to use it, or not preach at all.  I know very well I do not give crystalline views nor thoroughly
guarded views; there is often an error on this side and an error on that, and I cannot stop
to correct them.  A man might run around, like a kitten after its tail, all his life, if he
were going around explaining all his expressions and all the things he had written.  Let them
go.  They will correct themselves.  The average and general influence of a man's teaching will
be more mighty than any single misconception, or misapprehension through misconception.

"There is a deep enjoyment in having devoted yourself, soul and body, to the welfare of your
fellowmen, so that you have no thought and no care but for them.  There is a pleasure in that
which is never touched by any ordinary experiences in human life.  It is the highest.  I look
back to my missionary days as being transcendently the happiest period of my life.  The sweetest
pleasures I have ever known are not those that I have now, but those that I remember, when
I was unknown, in an unknown land, among a scattered people, mostly poor, and to whom I had
to go and preach the Gospel, man by man, house by house, gathering them on Sundays, a few--twenty,
fifty, or a hundred as the case might be--and preaching the Gospel more formally to them as
they were able to bear it."

BOOKER T. WASHINGTON

(1858-1915)

THE BOY WHO SLEPT UNDER THE SIDEWALK

Two or three years before the outbreak of the Civil War a little black baby was born in the
slave quarters on a Virginia plantation.  This was not a surprising event and nobody except
the mother paid it any attention.  Even the father of the child ignored it.  For some years
the boy "just growed," after the manner of Topsy.  Nobody helped him. But the boy differed
in one way from his thoughtless little playmates. There was a mysterious something in him that
drove him eagerly to avail himself of any opportunity for self-improvement that came along.
If the opportunity, as generally happened, failed to "come along," he went after it with all
his might and main.

He devoted his life unreservedly to the service of his coloured brethren, and through his own
bitter experience he knew full well the best way in which to help them.

From "Up From Slavery," by Booker T. Washington.  Doubleday, Page & Co., 1901.

Until I had grown to be quite a youth this single garment was all that I wore. . . .

BEN B. LINDSEY

(1869-)

THE MAN WHO FIGHTS "THE BEAST"

[Judge Lindsey is known all the world over for his work in the Juvenile Court in Denver, Colorado.
To his courtroom there come visitors from every State in this nation, investigators from Europe
and officials from China and Japan to study his laws and observe his methods.  But to himself,
his famous Juvenile Court is side issue, a small detail in his career.  For years he has been
engaged in a fight of which the founding of his Juvenile Court was only a skirmish.

Without money, without powerful friends, without personal popularity, this one man has codified
laws, instituted reforms, founded charities, and balked corruption.]

From "The Beast," by Ben B. Lindsey and Harvey J. O'Higgins. Doubleday, Page & Company, 1910.

FINDING THE CAT

I came to Denver in the spring of 1880, at the age of eleven, as mildly inoffensive a small
boy as ever left a farm--undersized and weakly, so that at the age of seventeen I commonly
passed as twelve, and so unaccustomed to the sight of buildings that I thought the five-story
Windsor Hotel a miracle of height and magnificence.  I had been living with my maternal grandfather
and aunt on a farm in Jackson, Tennessee, where I had been born; and I had come with my younger
brother to join my parents, who had finally decided that Denver was to be their permanent home.
The conductors on the trains had taken care of us, because my father was a railroad man, at
the head of the telegraph system; and we had been entertained on the way by the stories of
an old forty-niner with a gray moustache, who told us how he had shot buffalo on those prairies
where we now saw only antelope.  I was not precocious; his stories interested me more than
anything else on the journey; and I stared so hard at the old pioneer that I should recognize
him now, I believe, if I saw him on the street.

