Mr. Asquith (Fife E.) said: The House of Commons voted earlier in the session, before any outbreak
of war was anticipated, under normal conditions, under Vote A, 186,000-odd men for the regular
army. It is perhaps not necessary to point out, but it may be convenient to put it on record,
that the total number of men under Vote A does not include either the army reserve, the special
reserve, or the territorial forces. When we come to vote the financial provision under Vote
1 of the army estimates, which is consequential upon the passing of Vote A, we make provision
not only for the 186,000 men already sanctioned for the regular army, but also for the army
reserve. In the subsequent Votes 3 and 4 provision is made for the special reserve and territorial
force. The army reserve and the special reserve are not called upon to serve until, under regular
constitutional machinery, consequent upon the outbreak or imminence of war, they are summoned
to do so. It may be convenient to the committee to know that at the time when war broke out
and when the reserves were called to the colors the state of things was this: Parliament had
voted 186,000-odd men--call it roughly 200,000. The army reserve and the special reserve then
became available as part of the regular forces of the country, amounting also roughly to another
200,000 men. That was altogether 400,000 men. On Aug. 6, after war had been declared, I made
a motion in committee which was assented to in committee and by the House on report, for the
addition of 500,000 men to the regular forces. These 500,000 men, assuming them all to have
been raised, would, in addition to the 400,000 I have just mentioned, amount to a total of
900,000 men. I think it will be interesting to the committee before I state the reasons for
which I am going to ask them to make this further vote to know what has actually happened in
consequence of the vote of Aug. 6.

Enlistments Since the War.

The number of recruits who have enlisted in the army since the declaration of war--that is,
exclusive of those who have joined the territorial force--is 438,000, [cheers,] practically
439,000. That is up to the evening of Sept. 9. The committee will therefore see that, having
sanctioned, as it did, very little more than a month ago, the addition to the regular forces
of the Crown of half a million of men, we are now within some 60,000 of having attained that
total. The numbers enlisted in London since Sunday, Aug. 30, have exceeded 30,000 men, and
the stamp and character of the recruits has been in every way satisfactory and gratifying.
[Cheers.] The high-water mark was reached on Sept. 3, when the total recruits enlisted in the
United Kingdom on one day was 33,204. [Cheers.] I may mention--I am sure it will be gratifying
to honorable members on both sides who represent Lancashire constituencies--that on that day
2,151 men were enlisted in Manchester alone. That is a very satisfactory result, but it by
no means exhausts the requirements of the case. The response to the call for recruits has been
in every way gratifying. But I am aware, not only from a discussion that took place in the
House yesterday, but from communications which reached us from various parts of the country,
that there are complaints of grievances, causing legitimate or otherwise deeply felt dissatisfaction
at the manner in which some parts--I say advisedly only some parts--of this operation of recruiting
have been conducted. I should like the committee to realize what were the conditions of the
case. ["Hear, hear!"]

A Year's Recruits in a Day.

