  [Sidenote] Curtis, "Life of Buchanan," Vol. II., p. 294.

The first, most striking feature of the four-sided Presidential canvass which now began, was
the personal pledge by every one of the candidates of devotion to the Union. Each of the factions
was in some form charging disunion motives or tendencies upon part or all of the others; but
each indignantly denied the allegation as to itself. To leave no possible doubt, the written
letters of acceptance of each of the candidates emphasized the point. Lincoln invoked "the
inviolability of the Constitution, and the perpetual union, harmony, and prosperity of all."
Douglas made his pledge broad and full. "The Federal Union," wrote he, "must be preserved.
The Constitution must be maintained inviolate in all its parts. Every right guaranteed by the
Constitution must be protected by law in all cases where legislation is necessary to its enjoyment.
The judicial authority, as provided in the Constitution, must be sustained, and its decisions
implicitly obeyed and faithfully executed. The laws must be administered, and the constituted
authorities upheld, and all unlawful resistance to these things must be put down with firmness,
impartiality, and fidelity." "The Constitution and the equality of the States," wrote Breckinridge,
"these are symbols of everlasting union. Let these be the rallying cries of the people." Bell
declared that, if elected, all his ability, strength of will, and official influence should
be employed "for the maintenance of the Constitution and the Union against all opposing influences
and tendencies." Even President Buchanan, in a little campaign speech from the portico of the
Executive mansion, hastened to purge himself of the imputation of suspicion or fear on this
point. He declared that neither of the Democratic conventions was "regular," and that therefore
every Democrat was at liberty to vote as he thought proper. For himself, he preferred Breckinridge.
The Democratic party, when divided for the moment, "has always closed up its ranks, and become
more powerful even from defeat. It will never die whilst the Constitution and the Union survive.
It will live to protect and defend both."

No progress was made, however, towards a reunion of the Democratic party. The Buchanan faction
everywhere waged unrelenting war on Douglas, both in public discussion and in the use of official
patronage. The contest was made with equal obstinacy and bitterness in the Northern and the
Southern States. Douglas, on his part, was not slow to retaliate. He immediately entered on
an extensive campaign tour, and made speeches at many of the principal cities of the Northern
States, and a few in the slave-States. Everywhere he stigmatized the Breckinridge wing of the
Democracy as an extremist and disunion faction,[2] charging that it was as obnoxious and dangerous
as the Republicans. Whatever be his errors, it must be recorded to his lasting renown that
he boldly declared for maintaining the Union by force. At Norfolk, Virginia, the question was
put to him in writing. In other words, I think the President, whoever he may be, should treat
all attempts Douglas, to break up the Union by resistance to the laws, as Old Hickory treated
the nullifiers in 1832."

  [Sidenote] Douglas, Norfolk Speech, August 25, 1860.

All parties entered upon the political canvass with considerable spirit; but the chances of
the Republicans were so manifestly superior that their enthusiasm easily outran that of all
their competitors. The character and antecedents of Mr. Lincoln appealed directly to the sympathy
and favor of the popular masses of the Northern States. As pioneer, farm-laborer, flat-boatman,
and frontier politician, they saw in him a true representative of their early if not their
present condition. As the successful lawyer, legislator, and public debater in questions of
high statesmanship, he was the admired ideal of their own aspirations.

While the Illinois State Republican Convention was in session at Decatur (May 10), about a
week before the Chicago Convention, the balloting for State officers was interrupted by the
announcement, made with much mystery, that "an old citizen of Macon County" had something to
present to the convention. When curiosity had been sufficiently aroused, John Hanks, Lincoln's
fellow-pioneer, and a neighbor of Hanks, were suddenly marched into the convention, each bearing
upright an old fence-rail, and displaying a banner with an inscription to the effect that these
were two rails from the identical lot of three thousand which, when a pioneer boy, Lincoln
had helped to cut and split to inclose his father's first farm in Illinois, in 1830. These
emblems of his handiwork were received by the convention with deafening shouts, as a prelude
to a unanimous resolution recommending him for President. Later, these rails were sent to Chicago;
there, during the sittings of the National Republican Convention, they stood in the hotel parlor
at the Illinois headquarters, lighted up by tapers, and trimmed with flowers by enthusiastic
ladies. Their history and campaign incidents were duly paraded in the newspapers; and throughout
the Union Lincoln's ancient and local sobriquet of "Honest Old Abe" was supplemented by the
national epithet of "The Illinois Bail-splitter." Of the many peculiarities of the campaign,
one feature deserves special mention. Political clubs, for parades and personal campaign work,
were no novelty; now, however, the expedients of a cheap yet striking uniform and a half-military
organization were tried with marked success. When Lincoln made his New England trip, immediately
after the Cooper Institute speech, a score or two of active Republicans in the city of Hartford
appeared in close and orderly ranks, wearing each a cap and large cape of oil-cloth, and bearing
over their shoulders a long staff, on the end of which blazed a brilliant torch-light. This
first "Wide Awake" [3] Club, as it called itself, marching with soldierly step, and military
music, escorted Mr. Lincoln, on the evening of March 5, from the hall where he addressed the
people, to his hotel. The device was so simple and yet so strikingly effective that it immediately
became the pattern for other cities. After the campaign opened, there was scarcely a county
or village in the North without its organized and drilled association of "Wide Awakes," immensely
captivating to the popular eye, and forming everywhere a vigilant corps to spread the fame
of, and solicit votes for, the Republican Presidential candidate. On several occasions twenty
to thirty thousand "Wide Awakes" met in the larger cities and marched in monster torch-light
processions through the principal streets.

His nomination also made necessary some slight changes in Mr. Lincoln's daily life. His law
practice was transferred entirely to his partner, and instead of the small dingy office so
long occupied by him, he was now given the use of the Governor's room in the State-house, which
was not needed for official business during the absence of the Legislature. This also was a
room of modest proportions, with scanty and plain furniture. Here Mr. Lincoln, attended only
by his private secretary, Mr. Nicolay, passed the long summer days of the campaign, receiving
the constant stream of visitors anxious to look upon a real Presidential candidate. There was
free access to him; not even an usher stood at the door; any one might knock and enter. His
immediate personal friends from Sangamon County and central Illinois availed themselves largely
of this opportunity. With men who had known him in field and forest he talked over the incidents
of their common pioneer experience with unaffected sympathy and interest, as though he were
yet the flat-boatman, surveyor, or village lawyer of the early days. The letters which came
to him by hundreds, the newspapers, and the conversation of friends, kept him sufficiently
informed of the progress of the campaign, in which personally he took a very slight part. He
made no addresses, wrote no public letters, held no conferences. Political leaders several
times came to make campaign speeches at the Republican wigwam in Springfield. But beyond a
few casual interviews on such occasions, the great Presidential canvass went on with scarcely
a private suggestion or touch of actual direction from the Republican candidate.

It is perhaps worth while to record Lincoln's expression on one point, which adds testimony
to his general consistency in political action. The rise of the Know-Nothing or the American
party, in 1854-5 (which was only a renewal of the Native-American party of 1844), has been
elsewhere mentioned. As a national organization, the new faction ceased with the defeat of
Fillmore and Donelson in 1856; its fragments nevertheless held together in many places in the
form of local minorities, which sometimes made themselves felt in contests for members of the
Legislature and county officers; and citizens of foreign birth continued to be justly apprehensive
of its avowed jealousy and secret machinery. It was easy to allege that any prominent candidate
belonged to the Know-Nothing party, and attended the secret Know-Nothing lodges; and Lincoln,
in the late Senatorial, and now again in the Presidential, campaign, suffered his full share
of these newspaper accusations.

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Edward Lusk, October 30, 1858. MS.

We have already mentioned that in the campaign of 1844 he put on record, by public resolutions
in Springfield, his disapprobation of, and opposition to, Native-Americanism. In the later
campaigns, while he did not allow his attention to be diverted from the slavery discussion,
his disapproval of Know-Nothingism was quite as decided and as public. Thus he wrote in a private
letter, dated October 30, 1858: "I understand the story is still being told and insisted upon
that I have been a Know-Nothing. I repeat what I stated in a public speech at Meredosia, that
I am not, nor ever have been, connected with the party called the Know-Nothing party, or party
calling themselves the American party. Certainly no man of truth, and I believe no man of good
character for truth, can be found to say on his own knowledge that I ever was connected with
that party."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Hon. A. Jonas, July 21, 1860. For this reason it must
not publicly appear that I am paying any attention to the charge."

  [Sidenote] Lincoln to Dr. Theodore Canisius, May 17, 1859.

His position on the main question involved was already sufficiently understood; for in his
elsewhere quoted letter of May 17, 1859, he had declared himself against the adoption by Illinois,
or any other place where he had a right to oppose it, of the recent Massachusetts constitutional
provision restricting foreign-born citizens in the right of suffrage.

As the campaign progressed the chances of the result underwent an important fluctuation, involving
some degree of uncertainty. The Democratic disruption, and the presence of four tickets in
the field, rendered it possible that some very narrow plurality in one or more of the States
might turn the scale of victory. Calculating politicians, especially those belonging to the
party hitherto in power, and who had enjoyed the benefits of its extensive Federal patronage,
seized eagerly upon this possibility as a means of prolonging their official tenure, and showed
themselves not unwilling to sacrifice the principles of the general contest to the mere material
and local advantage which success would bring them.

  [Sidenote] Greeley, "American Conflict," Vol. I., p. 324.

Accordingly, in several States, and more notably in the great State of New York, there was
begun a quiet but unremitting effort to bring about a coalition or "fusion," as it was termed,
of the warring Democratic factions, on the basis of a division of the spoils which such a combination
might hope to secure. Nor did the efforts stop there. If the union of the two factions created
the probability, the union of three seemed to insure certainty, and the negotiations for a
coalition, therefore, extended to the adherents of Bell and Everett. Amid the sharp contest
of ideas and principles which divided the country, such an arrangement was by no means easy;
yet in a large voting population there is always a percentage of party followers on whom the
obligations of party creeds sit lightly. Gradually, from talk of individuals and speculations
of newspapers, the intrigue proceeded to a coquetting between rival conventions. Here the formal
proceedings encountered too much protest and indignation, and the scheme was handed over to
standing committees, who could deliberate and bargain in secret. It must be stated to the credit
of Douglas, that he publicly rejected any alliance not based on his principle of "non-intervention";[4]
but the committees and managers cared little for the disavowal. This agreement was carried
out, and the fusion ticket thus constituted was voted for at the Presidential election by the
combined opponents of Lincoln.

In Pennsylvania, notwithstanding that Douglas disapproved the scheme, an agreement or movement
of fusion also took place; but in this case it did not become complete, and was not altogether
carried out by the parties to it, as in New York. The electoral ticket had been nominated by
the usual Democratic State Convention (March 1) prior to the Charleston disruption, and, as
it turned out, about one-third of these nominees were favorable to Douglas. After the disruption,
the Douglas men also formed a straight, or Douglas, electoral ticket. In order to unite the
two wings at the October State election, the Executive Committee of the original convention
recommended (July 2) that the electors first nominated should vote for Douglas if his election
were possible; if not, should vote for Breckinridge. A subsequent resolution (August 9) recommended
that the electors should vote for either Douglas or Breckinridge, as the preponderance of Douglas
or Breckinridge votes in the State might indicate. On some implied agreement of this character,
not clearly defined or made public, the Douglas, Breckinridge, and Bell factions voted together
for governor in October. Being beaten by a considerable majority at that election, the impulse
to fusion was greatly weakened. Finally, the original Democratic State Committee rescinded
(October 12) all its resolutions of fusion, and the Douglas State Committee withdrew (October
18) its straight Douglas ticket. This action left in the field the original electoral ticket
nominated by the Democratic State Convention at Reading, prior to the Charleston Convention,
untrammeled by any instructions or agreements. It was nevertheless a fusion ticket in part,
because nine of the candidates (one-third of the whole number) were pledged to Douglas. What
share or promise the Bell faction had in it was not made public. At the Presidential election
it was voted for by a large number of fusionists; but a portion of the Douglas men voted straight
for Douglas, and a portion of the Bell men straight for Bell.[5]

  [Sidenote] Greeley, "American Conflict," Vol. I., p. 328.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 328.

In New Jersey also a definite fusion agreement was reached between the Bell, Breckinridge,
and Douglas factions. It turned out that a considerable fraction of the Douglas voters refused
to be transferred by the agreement which their local managers had entered into. They would
not vote for the two Bell men and the two Breckinridge men on the fusion ticket, but ran a
straight Douglas ticket, adopting the three electors on the fusion ticket. By this turn of
the canvass the three Douglas electors whose names were on both tickets were chosen, but the
remainder of the fusion ticket was defeated, giving Lincoln four electoral votes out of the
seven in New Jersey. Some slight efforts towards fusion were made in two or three other States,
but accomplished nothing worthy of note, and would have had no influence on the result, even
had it been consummated.

All these efforts to avert or postpone the grave political change which was impending were
of no avail. In the long six years' agitation popular intelligence had ripened to conviction
and determination. Every voter substantially understood the several phases of the great slavery
issue, its abstract morality, its economic influence on society, the intrigue of the Administration
and the Senate to make Kansas a slave-State, the judicial status of slavery as expounded in
the Dred Scott decision, the validity and the effect of the fugitive-slave law, the question
of the balance of political power as involved in the choice between slavery extension and slavery
restriction--and, reaching beyond even this, the issue so clearly presented by Lincoln whether
the States ultimately should become all slave or all free. In the whole history of American
polities the voters of the United States never pronounced a more deliberate judgment than that
which they recorded upon these grave questions at the Presidential election in November, 1860.

From much doubt and uncertainty at its beginning, the campaign swept onward through the summer
months, first to a probability, then to an assurance of Republican success. In September the
State of Maine elected a Republican governor by 18,000 majority. In October the pivotal States
gave decisive Republican majorities: Pennsylvania 32,000 for governor, Indiana nearly 10,000
for governor, and Ohio 12,000 for State ticket and 27,000 on Congressmen. Politicians generally
conceded that the vote in these States clearly foreshadowed Lincoln's election. The prophecy
not only proved correct, but the tide of popular conviction and enthusiasm, rising still higher,
carried to his support other States which were yet considered uncertain.

The Presidential election occurred on November 6,1860. In one of the free-States (New Jersey)
the choice resulted in 4 electors for Lincoln and 3 for Douglas, as already explained. This
assured Lincoln of the votes of 180 Presidential electors, or a majority of 57 in the whole
electoral college. The 15 slave-States were divided between the other three candidates. Three
of them--Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia--chose Bell electors, 39 in all; and one of them--Missouri--Douglas
electors, 9 in number, which, together with the 3 he received in the free-State of New Jersey,
gave him 12 in all: the aggregate of all the electors opposed to Lincoln being 123.

The will of the people as expressed in this popular vote was in due time carried into execution.
As the law prescribes, the Presidential electors met in their several States on the 5th of
December, and cast their official votes according to the above enumeration.

One feature of the result must not be omitted. Many careless observers felt at the time that
the success of Lincoln was due entirely to the fact of there having been three opposing candidates
in the field; or, in other words, to the dissensions in the Democratic party, which divided
its vote between Breckinridge and Douglas. What merely moral strength the Democratic party
would have gained had it remained united, it is impossible to estimate. Such a supposition
can only be based on the absence of the extreme Southern doctrines concerning slavery. Given
the presence of those doctrines in the canvass, no hypothesis can furnish a result different
from that which occurred. In the contest upon the questions as they existed, the victory of
Lincoln was certain. If all the votes given to all the opposing candidates had been concentrated
and cast for a "fusion ticket," as was wholly or partly done in five States, the result would
have been changed nowhere except in New Jersey, California, and Oregon; Lincoln would still
have received but 11 fewer, or 169 electoral votes--majority of 35 in the entire electoral
college. It was a contest of ideas, not of persons or parties. The choice was not only free,
but distinct and definite. The voter was not, as sometimes happens, compelled to an imperfect
or partial expression of his will. The four platforms and candidates offered him an unusual
variety of modes of political action. Among them the voters by undisputed constitutional majorities,
in orderly, legal, and unquestioned proceedings, chose the candidate whose platform pronounced
the final popular verdict that slavery should not be extended, and whose election unchangeably
transferred the balance of power to the free-States.

---------- [1] Benjamin Fitzpatrick, of Alabama, had been nominated at Baltimore, but he declined
the nomination, and the National Committee substituted the name of Herschel V. Johnson.

[2] "In my opinion there is a mature plan throughout the Southern States to break up the Union.
I believe the election of a Republican is to be the signal for that attempt, and that the leaders
of the scheme desire the election of Lincoln so as to have an excuse for disunion. I do not
believe that every Breckinridge man is a disunionist, but I do believe that every disunionist
in America is a Breckinridge man."--Douglas, Baltimore Speech, Sept. 6, 1860.

[3] We condense the following account of the origin of the "Wide Awakes" from memoranda kindly
furnished us by William P. Fuller, one of the editors of the Hartford "Courant" in 1860, Major
J.C. Kinney, at present connected with the paper, and General Joseph R. Hawley, the principal
editor, now United States Senator from Connecticut, and who in 1860 marched in the ranks in
the first "Wide Awake" parades.

The "Wide Awake" organization grew out of the first campaign meeting in Hartford on February
25, 1860--State election campaign. Hon. Cassius M. Clay was the speaker, and after the meeting
was escorted to the Allyn House by a torch-light parade. Two of the young men who were to carry
torches, D.G. Francis and H.P. Blair, being dry goods clerks, in order to protect their clothing
from dust and the oil liable to fall from the torches, had prepared capes of black cambric,
which they wore in connection, with the glazed caps commonly worn at the time. Colonel George
P. Bissell, who was marshal, noticing the uniform, put the wearers in front, where the novelty
of the rig and its double advantage of utility and show attracted much attention. It was at
once proposed to form a campaign club of fifty torch-bearers with glazed caps and oil-cloth
capes instead of cambric; the torch-bearing club to be "auxiliary to the Young Men's Republican
Union." A meeting to organize formally was appointed for March 6; but before the new uniforms
were all ready, Abraham Lincoln addressed a meeting in Hartford on the evening of March 5.
After his speech, the cape-wearers of the previous meeting with a number of others who had
secured their uniforms escorted Mr. Lincoln to the hotel.

The club was definitely organized on the following night. William P. Fuller, city editor, had,
in noticing this meeting for organization, written in the "Courant" of March 3: "THE WIDE AWAKES.--The
Republican club-room last evening was filled as usual with those who are going to partake in
the great Republican triumph, in this State in April next," etc., etc. The name "Wide Awakes"
was here applied to the Republican Young Men's Union, torch-bearers included; but at the meeting
of March 6, the torch-bearers appropriated it by making it the distinctive title to their own
special organization, which almost immediately, there as elsewhere, swallowed up the names
and the memberships of other Republican clubs. Just one year after they escorted Mr. Lincoln
in their first parade, he was inaugurated President of the United States.

[4] "I will give you my opinion as to fusion. Lincoln and Breckinridge might fuse, for they
agree in principle. I can never fuse with either of them, because I differ from both. I am
in favor of all men acting together who are opposed to this slavery agitation, and in favor
of banishing it from Congress forever; but as Democrats we can never fuse, either with Northern
abolitionists, or Southern bolters and secessionists."--Douglas, Speech at Erie, Penn., New
York "Tribune," October 3, 1860, p. 4.

[5] The vote in Pennsylvania stood: Lincoln, 268,030; Breckinridge (nominally), 178,871; Douglas,
16,765; Bell, 12,776.

CHAPTER XVII

BEGINNINGS OF REBELLION

Disunion was not a fungus of recent growth in American politics. Talk of disunion, threats
of disunion, accusations of intentions of disunion, lie scattered rather plentifully through
the political literature of the country from the very formation of the Government. In fact,
the present Constitution of the United States was strenuously opposed by large political factions,
and, it may almost be said, succeeded by only a hair's-breadth. That original opposition perpetuated
itself in some degree in the form of doubts of its duration and prophecies of its failure.
The same dissatisfaction and restlessness resulted in early and important amendments, but these
did not satisfy all dissenters and doubters. Immediate and profound conflict of opinion sprang
up over the administration and policy of the new Government; active political parties and hot
discussion arose, the one side proclaiming that it was too strong, the other asserting that
it was too weak, to endure.

Before public opinion was well consolidated, the war of 1812 produced new complaints and new
opposition, out of which grew the famous Hartford Convention. It has been charged and denied
that this was a movement of disunion and rebellion. The exact fact is not important in our
day; it is enough that it was a sign of deep political unrest and of shallow public faith.
Passing by lesser manifestations of the same character, we come to the eventful nullification
proceeding in South Carolina in the year 1832. Here was a formal legislative repudiation of
Federal authority with a reserved threat of forcible resistance. At this point disunion was
in full flower, and the terms nullification, secession, treason, rebellion, revolution, coercion,
constitute the current political vocabulary. Take up a political speech of that period, change
the names and dates, and the reader can easily imagine himself among the angry controversies
of the winter of 1860.

Nullification was half-throttled by Jackson's proclamation, half-quieted by Clay's compromise.
But from that time forward the phraseology and the spirit of disunion became constant factors
in Congressional debate and legislation. In 1850, it broke out to an extent and with an intensity
never before reached. This time it enveloped the whole country, and many of the wisest and
best statesmen believed civil war at hand. The compromise measures of 1850 finally subdued
the storm; but not till the serious beginning of a secession movement had been developed and
put down, both by the general condemnation of the whole country, and the direct vote of a union
majority in the localities where it took its rise.

Among these compromise acts of 1850 was the admission of California as a free-State. The gold
discoveries had suddenly filled it with population, making the usual probation as a Territory
altogether needless. A considerable part of the State lay south of the line of 36º, 30', and
the pro-slavery extremists had demanded that it should be divided into two States--one to be
a free and the other to be a slave-State--in order to preserve the political balance between
the sections, in the United States Senate. This being refused, they not only violently opposed
the compromise measures, but organized a movement for resistance in South Carolina, Georgia,
and Mississippi, demanding redress, and threatening secession if it were not accorded. A popular
contest on this issue followed in 1851 in these States, in which the ultra-secession party
was signally overthrown. It submitted sullenly to its defeat; leaving, as always before, a
considerable faction unsatisfied and implacable, only awaiting a new opportunity to start a
new disturbance. This new opportunity arose in the slavery agitation, beginning with the repeal
of the Missouri Compromise in 1854, and ending with the election of Lincoln. Daring this six
years' controversy, disunion was kept in the background because the pro-slavery party had continual
and sanguine hope of ultimate triumph. It did not despair of success until the actual election
of Lincoln, on the 6th of November, 1860; consequently, even in the Southern States, as a rule,
disunion was frowned upon till near the end of the Presidential campaign, and only paraded
as an evil to be feared, not as a thing to be desired.

This aspect, however, was superficial. Under the surface, a small but determined disunion conspiracy
was actively at work. It has left few historical traces; but in 1856 distinct evidence begins
to crop out. There was a possibility, though not a probability, that Frémont might be elected
President; and this contingency the conspirators proposed to utilize by beginning a rebellion.
A letter from the Governor of Virginia to the Governors of Maryland and other States is sufficient
proof of such an intent, even without the evidence of later history.

    RICHMOND, VA., Sept. 15, 1856.

    DEAR SIR: Events are approaching which address themselves to your
    responsibilities and to mine as chief Executives of slave-holding
    States. Contingencies may soon happen which would require
    preparation for the worst of evils to the people. Ought we not to
    admonish ourselves by joint council of the extraordinary duties
    which may devolve upon us from the dangers which so palpably
    threaten our common peace and safety? When, how, or to what extent
    may we act, separately or unitedly, to ward off dangers if we can,
    to meet them most effectually if we must? I have addressed the States
    only having Democratic Executives, for obvious reasons.

    This should be done as early as possible before the Presidential
    election, and I would suggest Monday, the 13th of October next.
    Will you please give me an early answer, and oblige,

    Yours most truly and respectfully,

    HENRY A. WISE.

    His Excellency Thomas W. Ligon,
    Governor of Maryland.

If any explanation were needed of the evident purpose of this letter, or of the proposed meeting,
it may be found in the following from Senator Mason, of Virginia, to Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi,
who was at the time Secretary of War under President Pierce:

  [Sidenote] O.J. Victor, "American Conspiracies," p. 520.

    SELMA, NEAR WINCHESTER, Va., Sept. 30, 1856.

    MY DEAR SIR: I have a letter from Wise, of the 27th, full of
    spirit. He says the Governors of North Carolina, South Carolina,
    and Louisiana have already agreed to rendezvous at Raleigh, and
    others will--this in your most private ear. He says, further, that
    he had officially requested you to exchange with Virginia, on fair
    terms of difference, percussion for flint muskets. I don't know
    the usage or power of the department In such cases, but if it can
    be done, even by liberal construction, I hope you will accede. Was
    there not an appropriation at the last session for converting
    flint into percussion arms? If so, would it not furnish good
    reason for extending such facilities to the States? Virginia
    probably has more arms than the other Southern States, and would
    divide, in case of need. In a letter yesterday to a committee in
    South Carolina, I give it as my judgment, in the event of
    Frémont's election, the South should not pause, but proceed at
    once to "immediate, absolute, and eternal separation." So I am a
    candidate for the first halter.

    Wise says his accounts from Philadelphia are cheering for old Buck
    in Pennsylvania. I hope they be not delusive. Vale et Salute
    [sic].

    J.M. MASON.

    Colonel Davis.

In these letters we have an exact counterpart of the later and successful efforts of these
identical conspirators, conjointly with others, to initiate rebellion. When the Senatorial
campaign of 1858 between Lincoln and Douglas was at its height, there was printed in the public
journals of the Southern States the following extraordinary letter, which at once challenged
the attention of the whole reading public of the country, and became known by the universal
stigma of "The Scarlet Letter." In the light of after events it was both a revelation and a
prophecy:

  [Sidenote] Quoted in Appendix to "Globe" for 1859-60, p. 313. L. YANCEY

    To James Slaughter, Esq.

The writer of this "Scarlet Letter" had long been known to the country as a prominent politician
of Alabama, affiliated with the Democratic party, having once represented a district of that
State in Congress, and of late years the most active, pronounced, and conspicuous disunionist
in the South. In so far as this publication concerned himself, it was no surprise to the public;
but the project of an organized conspiracy had never before been broached with such matter-of-fact
confidence.[1]

An almost universal condemnation by the public press reassured the startled country that the
author of this revolutionary epistle was one of the confirmed "fire-eaters" who were known
and admitted to exist in the South, but whose numbers, it was alleged, were too insignificant
to excite the most distant apprehension.

The letter was everywhere copied, its author denounced, and his proposal to "precipitate the
Cotton States into a revolution" held up to public execration. Mr. Yancey immediately printed
a statement deploring the betrayal of personal confidence in its publication, and to modifiy[2]
the obnoxious declaration by a long and labored argument. But in the course of this explanation
he furnished additional proof of the deep conspiracy disclosed by the "Scarlet Letter." He
made mention of "A well-considered Southern policy, a policy which has been digested, and understood,
and approved by the ablest men in Virginia, as you yourselves must be aware," to the effect
that while the Cotton States should begin rebellion, "Virginia and the other border States
should remain in the Union," where, by their position and their counsels, they would form a
protecting barrier to the proposed separation. "In the event of the movement being successful,"
he continued, "in time Virginia and the other border States that desired it could join the
Southern Confederacy."

Less than ordinary uncertainty hung over the final issue of the Presidential campaign of 1860.
To popular apprehension the election of Lincoln became more and more probable. The active competition
for votes by four Presidential tickets greatly increased his chances of success; and the verdict
of the October elections appeared to all sagacious politicians to render his choice a practical
certainty. Sanguine partisans, however, clung tenaciously to their favorites, and continued
to hope against hope, and work against fate. This circumstance produced a deplorable result
in the South. Under the shadow of impending defeat the Democrats of the Cotton States made
the final months of the canvass quite as much a threat against Lincoln as a plea for Breckinridge.
This preaching of secession seemed to shallow minds harmless election buncombe; but when the
contingency finally arrived, and the choice of Lincoln became a real event, they found themselves
already in a measure pledged to resistance. They had vowed they would never submit; and now,
with many, the mere pride of consistency moved them to adhere to an ill-considered declaration.
The sting of defeat intensified their resentment, and in this irritated frame of mind the secession
demagogues among them lured them on skillfully into the rising tide of revolution.

In proportion to her numbers, the State of South Carolina furnished the largest contingent
to the faction of active conspirators; and to her, by a common consent, were accorded the dangers
and honors of leadership. Since conspiracies work in secret, only fragmentary proofs of their
efforts ever come to light. Though probably only one of the many early agencies in organizing
the rebellion, the following circular reveals in a startling light what labor and system were
employed to "fire the Southern heart" after the November election:

  [Sidenote] O.J. Victor, "History of the Southern Rebellion." Vol. I.,
  p. 203.

    CHARLESTON, Nov. 19, 1860.
    EXECUTIVE CHAMBER, "The 1860 Association."

    In September last, several gentlemen of Charleston met to confer
    in reference to the position of the South in the event of the
    accession of Mr. Lincoln and the Republican party to power. This
    informal meeting was the origin of the organization known in this
    community as "The 1860 Association."

    The objects of the Association are:

    First. To conduct a correspondence with leading men in the South
    and by an interchange of information and views prepare the
    slave-States to meet the impending crisis.

    Second. To prepare, print, and distribute in the slave States,
    tracts, pamphlets, etc., designed to awaken them to a conviction
    of their danger, and to urge the necessity of resisting Northern
    and Federal aggression.

    Third. To inquire into the defenses of the State, and to collect
    and arrange information which may aid the Legislature to establish
    promptly an effective military organization.

    To effect these objects a brief and simple Constitution was
    adopted, creating a President, a Secretary and Treasurer, and an
    Executive Committee specially charged with conducting the business
    of the Association. One hundred and sixty-six thousand pamphlets
    have been published, and demands for further supplies are received
    from every quarter. The Association is now passing several of them
    through a second and third edition.

    The conventions in several of the Southern States will soon be
    elected. The North is preparing to soothe and conciliate the South
    by disclaimers and overtures. The success of this policy would be
    disastrous to the cause of Southern Union and Independence, and it
    is necessary to resist and defeat it. The Association is preparing
    pamphlets with this special object. Funds are necessary to enable
    it to act promptly. "The 1860 Association" is laboring for the
    South, and asks your aid.

    I am, very respectfully your obedient servant,

    ROBERT N. GOURDIN,
    Chairman of the Executive Committee.

The half-public endeavors of "The 1860 Association" to create public sentiment were vigorously
seconded by the efforts of high official personages to set on foot concerted official action
in aid of disunion. In this also, with becoming expressions of modesty, South Carolina took
the initiative. On the 5th of October, Governor Gist wrote the following confidential letter,
which he dispatched by a secret agent to his colleagues, the several Governors of the Cotton
States, whom the bearer, General S.R. Gist, visited in turn during that month of October.

The responses to this inquiry given by the Executives of the other Cotton States were not all
that so ardent a disunionist could have wished, but were yet sufficient to prompt him to a
further advance.

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives, U.S. War Department.

    EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
    UNIONVILLE, S.C., Oct. 5, 1860.
    His EXCELLENCY GOVERNOR MOORE.

    DEAR SIR: The great probability, nay almost certainty, of Abraham
    Lincoln's election to the Presidency renders it important that
    there should be a full and free interchange of opinion between the
    Executives of the Southern, and more especially the Cotton,
    States, and while I unreservedly give you my views and the
    probable action of my State, I shall be much pleased to hear from
    you; that there may be concert of action, which is so essential to
    success. Although I will consider your communication confidential,
    and wish you so to consider mine so far as publishing in the
    newspapers is concerned, yet the information, of course, will be
    of no service to me unless I can submit it to reliable and leading
    men in consultation for the safety of our State and the South; and
    will only use it in this way. It is the desire of South Carolina
    that some other State should take the lead, or at least move
    simultaneously with her. She will unquestionably call a convention
    as soon as it is ascertained that a majority of the electors will
    support Lincoln. If a single State secedes, she will follow her.
    If no other State takes the lead, South Carolina will secede (in
    my opinion) alone, if she has any assurance that she will be soon
    followed by another or other States; otherwise it is doubtful. If
    you decide to call a convention upon the election of a majority of
    electors favorable to Lincoln, I desire to know the day you
    propose for the meeting, that we may call our convention to meet
    the same day, if possible. If your State will propose any other
    remedy, please inform me what it will probably be, and any other
    information you will be pleased to give me.

    With great respect and consideration,

    I am yours, etc.,

    Wm. H. Gist.

    Governor Thos. O. Moore.

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

    EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
    RALEIGH, N.C., Oct. 18, 1860.

    DEAR SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
    favor of the 5th, which reached me on the 12th inst.

    In compliance with your request, I will give as accurately as it
    is in my power to do the views and feelings of the people of North
    Carolina upon the important subject of your communication.

    Political differences and party strife have run so high in this
    State for some years past, and particularly during the past nine
    months, that anything like unanimity upon any question of a public
    nature could scarcely be expected; and such is the case with the
    one under consideration. Our people are very far from being agreed
    as to what action the State should take in the event of Lincoln's
    election to the Presidency. Some favor submission, some resistance,
    and others still would await the course of events that might
    follow. Many argue that he would be powerless for evil with a
    minority party in the Senate, and perhaps in the House of
    Representatives also; while others say, and doubtless with entire
    sincerity, that the placing of the power of the Federal Government
    in his hands would prove a fatal blow to the institution of negro
    slavery in this country.

    None of our public speakers, I believe, have taken the ground
    before the people that the election of Lincoln would, of itself,
    be a cause of secession. Many have said it would not, while others
    have spoken equivocally.

    Upon the whole I am decidedly of opinion that a majority of our
    people would not consider the occurrence of the event referred to
    as sufficient ground for dissolving the union of the States. For
    which reason I do not suppose that our Legislature, which will
    meet on the 19th prox., will take any steps in that direction--such,
    for instance, as the calling of a convention.

    Thus, sir, I have given you what I conceive to be the sentiment of
    our people upon the subject of your letter, and I give it as an
    existing fact, without comment as to whether the majority be in
    error or not.

    My own opinions, as an individual, are of little moment. It will be
    sufficient to say, that as a States-Rights man, believing in the
    sovereignty and reserved powers of the States, I will conform my
    actions to the action of North Carolina, whatever that may be. To
    this general observation I will make but a single qualification--it
    is this: I could not in any event assent to, or give my aid to, a
    political enforcement of the monstrous doctrine of coercion. I do
    not for a moment think that North Carolina would become a party
    to the enforcement of this doctrine, and will not therefore do
    her the injustice of placing her in that position, even though
    hypothetically.

    With much respect, I have the honor to be,

    Your ob't. serv't,

    JOHN W. ELLIS.

    His Excellency William H. Gist,
    Governor of South Carolina

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

    ALEXANDRIA, LA., 26th October, 1860.
    His EXCELLENCY GOVERNOR GIST.

    DEAR SIR: Your favor of the 5th inst. was received a few days ago
    at this place. I regret my inability to consult with as many of
    our leading citizens as I wished, but I will not delay in replying
    any longer. You will (of course) consider my letter as private,
    except for use in consultation with friends.
    I shall not call a convention in this State if Lincoln is elected,
    because I have no power or authority to do so. I infer from your
    letter that an authority has been vested in you by your
    Legislature to call a convention in a specified contingency. Our
    Legislature has taken no action of that or any similar kind. That
    body will meet in regular annual session about the middle of
    January; but it is not improbable that I may consider it necessary
    to convene it at an earlier day, if the complexion of the
    electoral colleges shall indicate the election of Lincoln.

    Even if that deplorable event shall be the result of the coming
    election, I shall not advise the secession of my State, and I will
    add that I do not think the people of Louisiana will ultimately
    decide in favor of that course. I shall recommend that Louisiana
    meet her sister slaveholding States in council to consult as to
    the proper course to be pursued, and to endeavor to effect a
    complete harmony of action. I fear that this harmony of action, so
    desirable in so grave an emergency, cannot be effected. Some of
    the Cotton States will pursue a more radical policy than will be
    palatable to the border States, but this only increases the
    necessity of convening the consultative body of which I have
    spoken. I believe in the right of secession for just cause, of
    which the sovereignty must itself be the judge. If therefore the
    general Government shall attempt to coerce a State, and forcibly
    attempt the exercise of this right, I should certainly sustain the
    State in such a contest.

    There has never been any indication made by Louisiana, or by any
    public body within her limits, of her probable course in the event
    of an election of a Black Republican President, and she is totally
    unprepared for any warlike measures. Her arsenals are empty. While
    some of her sister States have been preparing for an emergency,
    which I fear is now imminent, she has been negligent in this
    important matter.

    If coming events should render necessary the convocation of the
    Southern Convention, I shall endeavor to compose the
    representation of Louisiana of her ablest and most prudent men, if
    the power shall be vested in me to appoint them. However, I
    presume the Legislature will adopt some other course in the
    appointments. The recommendations of such a body assembled in such
    a crisis must necessarily carry great weight, and if subsequently
    ratified and adopted by each State by proper authority, will
    present the South in united and harmonious action.

    I have the honor to be your Excellency's ob't serv't

    THOS. O. MOORE.

  [Sidenote] MS. Ibid.

    MACON, Oct. 26, 1860.
    His EXCELLENCY Gov. GIST.

    DEAR SIR: Your letter of Oct. 5 was handed me by General Gist.
    Having but few moments to reply, I write this more to acknowledge
    its receipt than to reply to its contents. Our friends in this
    State are willing to do anything they may have the power to do to
    prevent the State from passing under the Black Republican yoke.
    Our people know this, and seem to approve such sentiments, yet I
    do not believe Mississippi can move alone.

    I will call our Legislature in extra session as soon as it is
    known that the Black Republicans have carried the election. I
    expect Mississippi will ask a council of the Southern States, and
    if that council advise secession, Mississippi will go with them.
    If any State moves, I think Mississippi will go with her. I will
    write at length from Jackson.

    Yours respectfully,

    JOHN J. PETTUS.

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

    EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, GA., Oct. 31, 1860.
    His EXCELLENCY W.H. GIST.

    DEAR SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
    favor by the hand of General Grist, with whom I have had a free
    interchange of opinions. In the event of the election of
    Mr. Lincoln to the Presidency I have no doubt that Georgia will
    determine her action by a convention of the people, which will
    probably be held before the 4th day of March next. Her
    Legislature, which convenes here next Wednesday, will have to
    determine on the time when the convention shall be held. My
    opinion is that the people of Georgia will, in case of the
    election of Lincoln, decide to meet all the Southern States in
    convention and take common action for the protection of the rights
    of all. Events not yet foreseen may change their course and might
    lead to action on the part of Georgia without waiting for all the
    Southern States, if it should be found necessary to her safety. I
    have handed General Gist a copy of my message on our Federal
    relations, which will be sent to our Legislature on the first day
    of the session. I send only the forms from the press as it is just
    being put in type. I may make some immaterial alterations before
    it is completed. If your State remains in the Union, I should be
    pleased that she would adopt such retaliatory measures as I
    recommend in the message, or others which you may determine to be
    more appropriate. I think Georgia will pass retaliatory laws
    similar to those I recommend, should Lincoln be defeated. Should
    the question be submitted to the people of Georgia, whether they
    would go out of the Union on Lincoln's election without regard to
    the action of other States, my opinion is they would determine to
    wait for an overt act. The action of other States may greatly
    influence the action of the people of this State. This letter is
    not intended for publication in the newspapers, and has been very
    hastily prepared.

    I have the honor to be your Excellency's

    Ob't serv't,

    JOSEPH E. BROWN.

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

    EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
    MONTGOMERY, ALA., October 25, 1860.
    His EXCELLENCY W.H. GIST.

    DEAR SIR: Your letter of the 5th inst. was handed me a few days
    since by General Gist. I fully concur with you in the opinion that
    Lincoln will be elected President, and that a full and free
    interchange of opinion between the Executives of the Southern
    States, and especially of the Cotton States, should be had as to
    what ought to be done and what will be done by them to protect the
    interest and honor of the slave-holding States in the event he
    should be elected.

    My opinion is, that the election of Lincoln alone is not
    sufficient cause for a dissolution of the Union; but that fact,
    when taken in connection with the avowed objects and intentions of
    the party whose candidate he is, and the overt acts already
    committed by that party in nullifying the fugitive-slave law, and
    the enactment of personal liberty bills in many of the
    non-slave-holding States, with other acts of like kind, is
    sufficient cause for dissolving every tie which binds the Southern
    States to the Union.

    It is my opinion that Alabama will not secede alone, but if two or
    more States will coöperate with her, she will secede with them; or
    if South Carolina or any other Southern State should go out alone
    and the Federal Government should attempt to use force against
    her, Alabama will immediately rally to her rescue.

    The opinions above expressed are predicated upon observation and
    consultation with a number of our most distinguished statesmen.
    The opinion thus expressed is not intended as a positive
    assurance, but is my best impression as to what will be the course
    of Alabama. Should Lincoln be elected, I shall certainly call a
    convention under the provisions of the resolutions of the last
    General Assembly of the State. The convention cannot be convened
    earlier than the first Monday in February next, and I have fixed
    upon that day (in my own mind). The vote of the electors will be
    cast for President on the 5th day of December, after which it will
    require a few days to ascertain the result. Thirty days' notice
    will have to be given after the day upon which, the delegates to
    the convention will be elected, and the convention is required to
    convene in two weeks after the election. This is not a matter of
    discretion with me, but is fixed by law. I regret that earlier
    action cannot be had, as it may be a matter of much importance
    that all the States that may determine to withdraw from the Union
    should act before the expiration of Mr. Buchanan's term of service.

    The facts and opinions herein communicated you are at liberty to
    make known to those with whom you may choose to confer, but they
    are not to be published in the newspapers.

    I have had a full and free conversation with General Gist, the
    substance of which is contained in this letter. He will, however,
    give it to you more in detail. It is my opinion that all the
    States that may determine to take action upon the election of
    Lincoln should call a convention as soon as practicable after the
    result is known.

    With great respect, your ob't serv't,

    B. MOORE.

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

    EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, Nov. 9, 1860.
    His EXCELLENCY GOVERNOR GIST.

    DEAR SIR: Your communication of the 5th ultimo reached me per last
    mail under cover from General States Rights Gist, with an
    explanatory note from that gentleman in relation to the
    subject-matters thereof.

    The mode employed by your Excellency to collect authoritatively
    the views of several of the Executives of the Southern States as
    to their plan of action in the event of the election of Lincoln,
    commends itself warmly to my judgment. Concert of action can alone
    be arrived at by a full and free interchange of opinion between
    the Executives of the Cotton States, by whom it is confidently
    expected that the ball will be put in motion.

    We are in the midst of grave events, and I have industriously
    sought to learn the public mind in this State in the event of the
    election of Lincoln, and am proud to say Florida is ready to wheel
    into line with the gallant Palmetto State, or any other Cotton
    State or States, in any course which she or they may in their
    judgment think proper to adopt, looking to the vindication and
    maintenance of the rights, interest, honor, and safety of the
    South. Florida may be unwilling to subject herself to the charge
    of temerity or immodesty by leading off, but will most assuredly
    cooperate with or follow the lead of any single Cotton State which
    may secede. Whatever doubts I may have entertained upon this
    subject have been entirely dissipated by the recent elections in
    this State.

    Florida will most unquestionably call a convention as soon as it
    is ascertained that a majority of the electors favor the election
    of Lincoln, to meet most likely upon a day to be suggested by some
    other State.

    I leave to-day for the capital, and will write you soon after my
    arrival, but would be pleased in the mean time to hear from you at
    your earliest convenience.

    If there is sufficient manliness at the South to strike for our
    rights, honor, and safety, in God's name let it be done before the
    inauguration of Lincoln.

    With high regard, I am yours, etc.,

    M.S. PERRY

    Direct to Tallahassee.

    P.S. I have written General Gist at Union C.H.

Two agencies have thus far been described as engaged in the work of fomenting the rebellion:
the first, secret societies of individuals, like "The 1860 Association," designed to excite
the masses and create public sentiment; the second, a secret league of Southern governors and
other State functionaries, whose mission it became to employ the governmental machinery of
States in furtherance of the plot. These, though formidable and dangerous, would probably have
failed, either singly or combined, had they not been assisted by a third of still greater efficacy
and certainty. This was nothing less than a conspiracy in the very bosom of the National Administration
at Washington, embracing many United States Senators, Representatives in Congress, three members
of the President's Cabinet, and numerous subordinate officials in the several Executive departments.
The special work which this powerful central cabal undertook by common consent, and successfully
accomplished, was to divert Federal arms and forts to the use of the rebellion, and to protect
and shield the revolt from any adverse influence, or preventive or destructive action of the
general Government.

---------- [1] As an evidence of the disunion combination which lay like smoldering embers
under the surface of Southern politics, it is instructive to read an extract from a hitherto
unpublished letter from Governor Henry A. Wise, of Virginia, to a gentleman in Philadelphia,
for a copy of which we are indebted to General Duncan S. Walker. The other letter of Wise--previously
quoted--shows us his part and interest in the proposed conspiracy against Frémont; but the
erratic Governor had, after the lapse of nearly two years, become an anti-Lecompton-Douglasite,
and was ready to give confidential warning of designs with which he was only too familiar.
As this was written nearly three weeks before Yancey's "Scarlet Letter," its concurrent testimony
is of special significance as proof of the chronic conspiracy:

  "RICHMOND, VA., "May 28, 1858.
  "To WM. SERGEANT, ESQ.:

  "... The truth is that there is in the South an organized,
  active, and dangerous faction, embracing most of the Federal
  politicians, who are bent upon bringing about causes of a
  dissolution of the Union. They desire a united South, "but not a
  united country. Their hope of embodying a sectional antagonism is
  to secure a sectional defeat. At heart, they do not wish the
  Democracy to be any longer national, united, or successful. In
  the name of Democracy they propose to make a nomination for 1860,
  at Charleston; but an ultra nomination of an extremist on the
  slavery issue alone, to unite the South on that one idea, and on
  that to have it defeated by a line of sectionalism which will
  inevitably draw swords between fanatics on one side and
  fire-eaters on the other. Bear it in mind, then, that they desire
  to control a nomination for no other purpose than to have it
  defeated by a line of sections. They desire defeat, for no other
  end than to make a pretext for the clamor of dissolution....

  "Yours truly,

  "HENRY A. WISE." MS.

[2] "I am a secessionist and not a revolutionist, and would not 'precipitate,' but carefully
prepare to meet an inevitable dissolution." --Yancey to Pryor, "Richmond South," copied in
"National Intelligencer," September 4, 1858.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE CABINET CABAL

Very soon after the effort to unite the Cotton-State governors in the revolutionary plot, we
find the local conspiracy at Charleston in communication with the central secession cabal at
Washington. It was in and about this Cabinet that the central cabal formed itself. Even if
we could know in detail the successive steps that led to the establishment of this intercourse,
which so quickly became "both semi-official and confidential," it could add nothing to the
force of the principal fact that the conspiracy was in its earliest stages efficient in perverting
the resources and instrumentalities of the Government of the United States to its destruction.
That a United States Senator, a Secretary of War, an Assistant Secretary of State, and no doubt
sundry minor functionaries, were already then, from six to eight weeks before any pretense
of secession, with, "malice aforethought" organizing armed resistance to the Constitution and
laws they had sworn to support, stands forth in the following correspondence too plainly to
be misunderstood. As a fitting preface to this correspondence, a few short paragraphs may be
quoted from the private diary of the Secretary of War, from which longer and more important
extracts appear in a subsequent chapter. Those at present quoted are designed more especially
to show the names of the persons composing the primary group of this central cabal, and the
time and place of their early consultations and activity.

EXTRACTS FROM FLOYD'S DIARY.[1]

November 8, 1860 ... I had a long conversation to-day with General Lane, the candidate for
Vice-President on the ticket with Mr. Breckinridge. He was grave and extremely earnest; said
that resistance to the anti-slavery feeling of the North was hopeless, and that nothing was
left to the South but "resistance or dishonor"; that if the South failed to act with promptness
and decision in vindication of her rights, she would have to make up her mind to give up first
her honor and then her slaves. He thought disunion inevitable, and said when the hour came
that his services could be useful, he would offer them unhesitatingly to the South. I called
to see the President this evening, but found him at the State Department engaged upon his message,
and did not see him. Miss Lane returned last evening from Philadelphia, where she had been
for some time on a visit. Mr. W.H. Trescott, Assistant Secretary of State, called to see me
this evening, and conversed at length upon the condition of things in South Carolina, of which
State he is a native. He expressed no sort of doubt whatever of his State separating from the
Union. He brought me a letter from Mr. Drayton, the agent of the State, proposing to buy ten
thousand muskets for the use of the State....

November 10 ... Beach, Thompson, and Cobb came over with me from Cabinet and staid, taking
informally a family dinner. The party was free and communicative; Toucey would not stay for
dinner. Mr. Pickens, late Minister to Russia, came in after dinner with Mr. Trescott, Assistant
Secretary of State, and sat an hour, talking about the distracted state of public feeling at
the South. He seemed to think the time had come for decisive measures to be taken by the South.

November 11 ... I spent an hour at the President's, where I met Thompson, Robert McGraw, and
some others; we sat around the tea-table and discussed the disunion movements of the South.
This seems to be the absorbing topic everywhere.

November 12 ... Dispatched the ordinary business of the department; dined at 5 o'clock; Mr.
Pickens, late Minister to Russia, Mr. Trescott, Mr. Secretary Thompson, Mr. McGraw, Mr. Browne,
editor of the "Constitution," were of the party. The chief topic of discussion was, as usual,
the excitement in the South. The belief seemed to be that disunion was inevitable; Pickens,
usually very cool and conservative, was excited and warm. My own conservatism seems in these
discussions to be unusual and almost misplaced.

  [Sidenote] Benson J. Lossing, "The Civil War in America," Vol. I.,
  p. 44. (Note.)

W.H. TRESCOTT TO E. BARNWELL RHETT. WASHINGTON, Nov. 1, 1860.

DEAR RHETT: I received your letter this morning. As to my views or opinions of the Administration,
I can, of course, say nothing. As to Mr. Cobb's views, he is willing that I should communicate
them to you, in order that they may aid you in forming your own judgment; but, you will understand
that this is confidential--that is, neither Mr. Cobb nor myself must be quoted as the source
of your information. I will not dwell on this, as you will, on a moment's reflection, see the
embarrassment which might be produced by any authorized statement of his opinions. I will only
add, by way of preface, that after the very fullest and freest conversations with him, I feel
sure of his earnestness, singleness of purpose, and resolution in the whole matter.

Mr. Cobb believes that the time is come for resistance; that upon the election of Lincoln,
Georgia ought to secede from the Union, and that she will do so; that Georgia and every other
State should, as far as secession, act for herself, resuming her delegated powers, and thus
put herself in position to consult with other sovereign States who take the same ground. After
the secession is effected, then will be the time to consult. But he is of opinion, most strongly,
that whatever action is resolved on should be consummated on the 4th of March, not before.

That while the action determined on should be decisive and irrevocable, its initial point should
be the 4th of March. He is opposed to any Southern convention, merely for the purpose of consultation.
If a Southern convention is held, it must be of delegates empowered to act, whose action is
at once binding on the States they represent.

But he desires me to impress upon you his conviction, that any attempt to precipitate the actual
issue upon this Administration will be most mischievous--calculated to produce differences
of opinion and destroy unanimity. He thinks it of great importance that the cotton crop should
go forward at once, and that the money should be in the hands of the people, that the cry of
popular distress shall not be heard at the outset of this move.

My own opinion is that it would be well to have a discreet man, one who knows the value of
silence, who can listen wisely, present in Milledgeville, at the meeting of the State Legislature,
as there will be there an outside gathering of the very ablest men of that State.

And the next point, that you should, at the earliest possible day of the session of our own
Legislature, elect a man as governor whose name and character will conciliate as well as give
confidence to all the men of the State,--if we do act, I really think this half the battle,--a
man upon whose temper the State can rely.

I say nothing about a convention, as I understand, on all hands, that that is a fixed fact,
and I have confined myself to answering your question. I will be much obliged to you if you
will write me soon and fully from Columbia.

It is impossible to write to you, with the constant interruption of the office, and as you
want Cobb's opinions, not mine, I send this to you.

Yours,

W.H.T.

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

THOS. F. DRAYTON TO GOVERNOR GIST. CHARLESTON, 3d Nov., 1860.

On the 22d of last month I was in Washington, and called upon the Secretary at War, in company
with Senator Wigfall, of Texas, to make inquiries as to the efficiency and price of certain
muskets belonging to the United States, which had been altered by the Ordnance Department from
flint to percussion. They will shoot for 200 yards as well as any smooth-bored gun in the service,
and if rifled will be effective at 500 yards. But if the conical ball will be made lighter
by enlarging the hollow at the base of the cone, the effective range may be increased to seven
hundred yards. Should your Excellency give a favorable consideration to the above, I can have
the whole of what I have stated authenticated by the board of ordnance officers, who inspected
and reported to the Secretary at War upon these muskets. If ten thousand or more of these muskets
are purchased, the price will be two ($2) dollars each; for a less quantity the charge will
be $2.50 each. If a portion or all of them are to be rifled, the Secretary says he will have
it done for the additional cost of one ($1) dollar per barrel. As this interview with Mr. Secretary
Floyd was both semi-official and confidential, your Excellency will readily see the necessity,
should this matter be pursued further, of appointing an agent to negotiate with him, rather
than conduct the negotiation directly between the State and the Department ... I unhesitatingly
advise purchasing several thousand of them ... There are many other important facts in connection
with the above that I could disclose, but will reserve them for some other occasion, that I
may give them verbally as soon as I can find a day to wait upon your Excellency in Columbia.

The State of Texas has engaged twenty thousand (20,000) of these muskets, and the State of
Kentucky purchased several thousand last summer.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

THOS. F. DRAYTON TO GOVERNOR GIST. CHARLESTON, 6th Nov., 1860.

I have only within a few hours received yours of the 5th inst., authorizing me to purchase
from the War Department at Washington ten thousand rifles of pattern and price indicated in
my letter to your Excellency of the 3d inst.

I accept the appointment and will discharge the duty assigned to the best of my ability and
with the least possible delay. For I feel that the past and present agitation are ruinous to
our peace and prosperity and that our only remedy is to break up with dispatch the present
Confederacy and construct a new and better one. I will communicate with Mr. Secretary Floyd
to-night and have the rifles put in preparation so as to have them for use at an early day....

I would wish that my agency in this transaction be kept private until I reach Washington, or
indeed till I write to say the arms are on their way to Columbia....

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

THOS. F. DRAYTON TO GOVERNOR GIST. CHARLESTON, 8th Nov., 1860.

I have just received your letter of the 7th inst., and I think I can render you all the information
you desire, without resorting to any agent. If my ability can only be made to keep pace with
my zeal, I hope yet to render some service to the dear old State of South Carolina.

I have been most reluctantly detained here by an accidental fall, and also by business of an
urgent kind associated with the railroad. My absence from Washington, however, has not delayed
the execution of your order for the rifles; the Secretary of War has had the preparation of
them in hand for some time.

When I write to you from Washington, had I not better address you through your private secretary
... Please address me at Washington to the care of Wm. H. Trescott, Esq. ... I will give strict
attention to your letter of the 7th inst., and hope to furnish you with much of the information
you desire, for I am quite sensible of the importance of knowing the views and policy of the
President at this juncture. WASHINGTON, 19th Nov., 1860.

... I called this morning upon the Secretary of War to make arrangements for the immediate
transmission of the rifles to Columbia, but much to my astonishment he informed me that since
he had looked over the report of "Small Fire-arms" (now inclosed) that he found he had labored
under an error in stating to me that the ten thousand rifles I had engaged were ready for delivery
when called for by me. He said he could have them rifled, but it would take three or four months
to execute the contract, but suggested that we should purchase the 10,000 smooth-bored muskets
instead, as a more efficient arm, particularly if large-sized buckshot should be used, which,
put up in wire case capable of containing 12 of them, would go spitefully through an inch plank
at 200 yards. I was much astonished at the result of my interview with Governor Floyd to-day,
for he had not only informed me that the rifles would be ready for me on my arrival, but told
Mr. Trescott so likewise, and that if I had been in Washington last Saturday I could have got
them.... If you will be satisfied with the smooth-bored muskets like the specimen forwarded
to you, I will purchase them. Better do this, although not the best pattern, than be without
arms at a crisis like the present. Colonel Benjamin Huger can give you much information about
these muskets. This is derived not only from Mr. Floyd, but also from General J.E. Johnston,
Quartermaster-General, who was President of the Ordnance Board who had these muskets changed
from flint to percussion, and also from smooth-bore to rifle, and he says that for our purposes
the smooth-bored musket is preferable to the altered rifle. The why I cannot explain to-day....
I also send you a letter from Mr. Trescott, in reply to certain inquiries from me. I am unable
to make any comments upon them nor to add other facts which I will forward you more leisurely
to-morrow....

  [Sidenote] MS. Confederate Archives.

W.H. TRESCOTT TO THOS. F. DRAYTON. WASHINGTON, Nov. 19, 1860.

(Private, Confidential.)

MY DEAR DRAYTON: It is difficult to reply specifically to your inquiries, partly because I
do not believe that the exact course of the Administration has been yet determined on, and
partly because my knowledge, or rather my inference, of its intentions is derived from intercourse
with its members which I am bound to consider confidential. I do not regard it of serious importance
to you to know the individual opinions of either the President or the Cabinet. No action of
any sort will be taken until the message has been sent indicating the opinions of the Executive,
and that message, whatever it be, will find our Legislature in session, and the convention
on the point of meeting. I think it likely that the President will state forcibly what he considers
the grievances of the South, that he will add that he does not think, if the right of secession
existed, it would be a wise policy for the State to adopt, and that he does not think the right
to secede does exist, and then refer the whole matter to Congress; what he will do when the
State does secede, he has not said, and I do not know, nor any man, I believe. He will do,
as we will, what he believes to be his duty, and that duty, I suppose, will be discharged in
full view of the consequences following any line of action that may be determined on. But I
think that, as long as Cobb and Thompson retain seats in the Cabinet, you may feel confident
that no action has been taken which seriously affects the position of any Southern State.

I think that I may safely rely upon my knowledge of what will be done, and you may rely upon
my resignation as soon as that knowledge satisfies me of any move in a direction positively
injurious to us, or altering the present condition of things to our disadvantage. When you
pass through on Wednesday, however, I will speak to you more fully.

Yours,

W.H.T.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

Mr. Buchanan, while he can discover no authority under the Constitution to justify secession
by a State, on the other hand he can find no power to coerce one to return after the right
of secession has been exercised. He will not allow entry or clearance of a vessel except through
the Custom-house, to be established as soon as secession is declared, upon the deck of a man-of-war
off the harbor of Charleston. He will enforce the collection of duties, not by navy, but by
a revenue cutter, as our collector now would do if his authority was resisted. I will write
to you more fully when I return from New York, where I go to-morrow at daylight, at the suggestion
of the Secretary of War, who deems it important that I should go there to make arrangements
for shipping the arms (should you still want them) from that point instead of this city ...
Do send a copy of the list of arms at the arsenals to H.R. Lawton, Milledgeville, Ga. I am
getting some smooth-bored muskets for Georgia, like the specimen I sent you.

I arrived here at 6 A.M. from New York, where I had gone at the suggestion of Mr. Floyd to
engage Mr. G.B. Lamar, President of the Bank of the Republic, to make an offer to the Secretary
for such a number of muskets as we might require. The Secretary at War was reluctant to dispose
of them to me, preferring the intermediate agency. Mr. Lamar has consented to act accordingly,
and to-day the Secretary has written to the commanding officer [at] Watervliet Arsenal to deliver
five or ten thousand muskets (altered from flint to percussion) to Mr. Lamar's order. Mr. Lamar
will pay the United States paymaster for them, and rely upon the State to repay him. I have
been most fortunate in having been enabled to meet the payments for the arms through Mr. L.,
for I feel satisfied that without his intervention we could not have effected the purchase
at this time.... I expect to return at daylight to-morrow to New York, for I am very anxious
about getting possession of the arms at Watervliet, and forward them to Charleston. The Cabinet
may break up at any moment, on differences of opinion with the President as to the rights of
secession, and a new Secretary of War might stop the muskets going South, if not already on
their way when he comes into office.

I will write to you again by the next mail. The impression here and elsewhere among many Southern
men is, that our Senators have been precipitate in resigning; they think that their resignations
should have been tendered from their seats after they had announced to the Senate that the
State had seceded. Occupying their seats up to this period would have kept them in communication
with Senators from the South and assisted very powerfully in shaping to our advantage coming
events.

If any further quotation be necessary to show the audacity with which at least three Secretaries
and one Assistant Secretary of Mr. Buchanan's Cabinet engaged in flagrant conspiracy in the
early stages of rebellion, it may be found in an interview of Senator Clingman with the Secretary
of the Interior, which the former has recorded in his "Speeches and Writings" as an interesting
reminiscence. It may be doubted whether Secretary Thompson correctly reported the President
as wishing him success in his North Carolina mission, but the Secretary is, of course, a competent
witness to his own declarations and acts.

  [Sidenote] T.L. Clingman, "Speeches and Writings," pp. 526, 527. Being surprised by this statement, I told Mr.
Thompson that Mr. Buchanan was probably so much perplexed by his
situation that he had not fully considered the matter, and that as he
was already involved in difficulty, we ought not to add to his
burdens; and then suggested to Mr. Thompson that he had better see Mr.
Buchanan again, and by way of inducing him to think the matter over,
mention what I had been saying to him. Mr. Thompson said, "Well, I can
do so, but I think he fully understands it." In the evening I met Mr.
Thompson at a small social party, and as soon as I approached him, he
said, "I knew I could not be mistaken. I told Mr. Buchanan all you
said, and he told me that he wished me to go, and hoped I might
succeed." I could not help exclaiming, "Was there ever before any
potentate who sent out his own Cabinet ministers to excite an
insurrection against his Government!" The fact that Mr. Thompson did
go on the errand, and had a public reception before the Legislature,
and returned to his position in the Cabinet is known, but this
incident serves to recall it.

To this sketch of the Cabinet cabal it is necessary to add the testimony of his participation,
by one who, from first to last, was a principal and controlling actor. Jefferson Davis records
that:

  [Sidenote] Jefferson Davis, "Rise and Fall of the Confederate
  Government," Vol. I., pp. 57, 58, 59.

In the documents we have presented, though they manifestly form but the merest fragment of
the secret correspondence which passed between the chief conspirators, and of the written evidence
recorded by them in various forms, then and afterwards, we have a substantial unmasking of
the combined occult influences which presided over the initiatory steps of the great American
Rebellion--its central council--the master wheel of its machinery--and the connecting relation
which caused all its subordinate parts to move in harmonious accord.

With the same mind to dictate a secession message to a Legislature and a non-coercion message
to Congress--to assemble insurrectionary troops to seize Federal forts and withhold Government
troops from their protection--to incite governors to rebellion and overawe a weak President
to a virtual abdication of his rightful authority, history need not wonder at the surprising
unity and early success of the conspiracy against the Union.

---------- [1] Printed on pages 791 to 794 in "The Life and Times of Robert E. Lee," etc. By
a distinguished Southern journalist. (E.A. Pollard, author of "The Lost Cause.")

CHAPTER XIX

FROM THE BALLOT TO THE BULLET

The secret circular of Governor Gist, of South Carolina, heretofore quoted, inaugurated the
great American Rebellion a full month before a single ballot had been cast for Abraham Lincoln.
This was but repeating in a bolder form the action taken by Governor Wise, of Virginia, during
the Frémont campaign four years before. But, instead, as in that case, of confining himself
to a proposed consultation among slave-State executives, Governor Gist proceeded almost immediately
to a public and official revolutionary act.

On the 12th of October, 1860, he issued his proclamation convening the Legislature of South
Carolina in extra session, "to appoint electors of President and Vice-President ... and also
that they may, if advisable, take action for the safety and protection of the State." There
was no external peril menacing either the commonwealth or its humblest citizen; but the significance
of the phrase was soon apparent.

  [Sidenote] South Carolina "House Journal," Called Session, 1860,
  pp. 10, 11.

A caucus of prominent South Carolina leaders is said to have been held on October 25, at the
residence of Senator Hammond. Their deliberations remained secret, but the determination arrived
at appears clearly enough in the official action of Governor Gist, who was present, and who
doubtless carried out the plans of the assemblage. When the Legislature met on November 5 (the
day before the Presidential election) the Governor sent them his opening message, advocating
both secession and insurrection, in direct and undisguised language. To this end he recommended
a reorganization of the militia and the raising and drilling an army of ten thousand volunteers.
He placed the prospects of such a revolution in a most hopeful and encouraging light.

This campaign declamation, used throughout the whole South with great skill and success, to
"fire the Southern heart," was wholly defective as a serious argument.

As to the alleged destruction of equality, the North proposed to deny to the slave-States no
single right claimed by the free-States. The talk about "provinces of a consolidated despotism
to be governed by a fixed majority" was, in itself an absurd contradiction in terms, which
repudiated the fundamental idea of republican government. The acknowledgment that any danger
from anti-slavery "measures" was only in the future, negatived its validity as a present grievance.
Hostility to "our institutions" was expressly disavowed by full constitutional recognition
of slavery under State authority. The charge of "sectionalism" came with a bad grace from a
State whose newspapers boasted that none but the Breckinridge ticket was tolerated within her
borders, and whose elsewhere obsolete "institution" of choosing Presidential electors by the
Legislature instead of by the people, combined with such a dwarfed and crippled public sentiment,
made it practically impossible for a single vote to be cast for either Lincoln or Douglas or
Bell--a condition mathematically four times as "sectional" as that of any State of the North.

Finally, the avowed determination to secede because a Presidential election was about to be
legally gained by one of the three opposing parties, after she had freely and fully joined
in the contest, was an indulgence of caprice utterly incompatible with any form of government
whatever.

There is no need here to enter upon a discussion of the many causes which, had given to the
public opinion of South Carolina so radical and determined a tone in favor of disunion. Maintaining
persistence, and gradually gathering strength almost continuously since the nullification furor
of 1832, it had become something more than a sentiment among its devotees: it had grown into
a species of cult or party religion, for the existence of which no better reason can be assigned
than that it sprang from a blind hero-worship locally accorded to John C. Calhoun, one of the
prominent figures of American political history. As representative in Congress, Secretary of
War under President Monroe, Vice-President of the United States under President John Quincy
Adams, for many years United States Senator from South Carolina, and the radical champion of
States Rights, Nullification, and Slavery, his brilliant fame was the pride, but his false
theories became the ruin, of his State and section.

Governor Gist and his secession coadjutors had evidently still a lingering hope that the election
might by some unforeseen contingency result in the choice of Breckinridge. On no other hypothesis
can we account for the fact that on the 6th of November, when Northern ballots were falling
in such an ample shower for Lincoln, the South Carolina Legislature, with due decorum and statute
regularity, appointed Presidential electors for the State, and formally instructed them to
vote for Breckinridge and Lane. The dawn of November 7 dispelled these hopes. The "strong probability"
had become a stubborn fact.

When the certain news of Lincoln's election finally came, it was hailed with joy and acclamation
by both the leaders and the people of South Carolina. They had at length their much coveted
pretext for disunion; and they now put into the enterprise a degree of earnestness, frankness,
courage, and persistency worthy of a better cause. Public opinion, so long prepared, responded
with enthusiasm to the plans and calls of the leaders. Manifestations of disloyalty became
universal. Political clubs were transformed into military companies. Drill-rooms and armories
were alive with nightly meetings. Sermons, agricultural addresses, and speeches at railroad
banquets were only so many secession harangues. The State became filled with volunteer organizations
of "minute men."

The Legislature, remaining in extra session, and cheered and urged on by repeated popular demonstrations
and the inflamed speeches of the highest State officials, proceeded without delay to carry
out the Governor's programme. In fact, the members needed no great incitement. They had been
freshly chosen within the preceding month; many of them on the well-understood "resistance"
issue. Their election took place on the 8th and 9th days of October, 1860. Since there was
but one party in South Carolina, there could be no party drill; but a tyrannical and intolerant
public sentiment usurped its place and functions. On the sixteen different tickets paraded
in one of the Charleston newspapers, the names of the most pronounced disunionists were the
most frequent and conspicuous. "Southern rights at all hazards," was the substance of many
mottoes, and the palmetto and the rattlesnake were favorite emblems. There was neither mistaking
nor avoiding the strong undercurrent of treason and rebellion here manifested, and the Governor's
proclamation had doubtless been largely based upon it.

The first day's session of the Legislature (November 5) developed one of the important preparatory
steps of the long-expected revolution. The Legislature of 1859 had appropriated a military
contingent fund of one hundred thousand dollars, "to be drawn and accounted for as directed
by the Legislature." The appropriation had been allowed to remain untouched. It was now proposed
to place this sum at the control of the Governor to be expended in obtaining improved small
arms, in purchasing a field battery of rifled cannon, in providing accouterments, and in furnishing
an additional supply of tents; and a resolution to that effect was passed two days later, The
chief measure of the session, however, was a bill to provide for calling the proposed State
Convention, which it was well understood would adopt an ordinance of secession. There was scarcely
a ripple of opposition to this measure. One or two members still pleaded for delay, to secure
the coöperation of Georgia, but dared not record a vote against the prevailing mania. The chairman
of the proper committee on November 10 reported an act calling a convention "for the purpose
of taking into consideration the dangers incident to the position of the State in the Federal
Union," which unanimously became a law November 13, and the extra session adjourned to meet
again in regular annual session on the 26th.

Meanwhile public excitement had been kept at fever heat by all manner of popular demonstrations.
The two United States Senators and the principal Federal officials resigned their offices with
a public flourish of their insubordinate zeal. An enthusiastic ratification meeting was given
to the returning members of the Legislature. To give still further emphasis to the general
movement a grand mass meeting was held at Charleston on the 17th of November. The streets were
filled with the excited multitude. Gaily dressed ladies crowded balconies and windows, and
zealous mothers decorated their children with revolutionary badges. There was a brisk trade
in fire-arms and gunpowder. The leading merchants and prominent men of the city came forth
and seated themselves on platforms to witness and countenance a formal ceremony of insurrection.
A white flag, bearing a palmetto tree and the legend Animis opibusque parati (one of the mottoes
on the State seal), was, after solemn prayer, displayed from a pole of Carolina pine. Music,
salutes, and huzzahs filled the air. Speeches were addressed to "citizens of the Southern Republic."
Orations and processions completed the day, and illuminations and bonfires occupied the night.
The preparations were without stint. The proceedings and ceremonies were conducted with spirit
and abandon. The rejoicings were deep and earnest. And yet there was a skeleton at the feast;
the Federal flag, invisible among the city banners, and absent from the gay bunting and decorations
of the harbor shipping, still floated far down the bay over a faithful commander and loyal
garrison in Fort Moultrie.

CHAPTER XX

MAJOR ANDERSON

President Buchanan and his Administration could not, if they would, shut their eyes to the
treasonable utterances and preparations at Charleston and elsewhere in the South; but so far
neither the speeches nor bonfires nor palmetto flags, nor even the secession message of Governor
Gist or the Convention bill of the South Carolina Legislature, constituted a statutory offense.
For twelve years the threat of disunion had been in the mouths of the Southern slavery extremists
and their Northern allies the most potent and formidable weapon of national politics. It was
declaimed on the stump, elaborated in Congressional speeches, set out in national platforms,
and paraded as a solemn warning in executive messages.

Mr. Buchanan had profited by the disunion cry both as politician and functionary; and now when
disunion came in a practical and undisguised shape he was to a degree powerless to oppose it,
because he was disarmed by his own words and his own acts. The disunionists were his partisans,
his friends, and confidential counselors; they constituted a remnant of the once proud and
successful party which, by his compliance and coöperation in their interest, he had disrupted
and defeated. Their programme hitherto had been the policy upon which he had staked the success
or failure of his Administration, so that in addition to every other tie he was bound to them
by the common sorrow of political disaster.

Being in such intimate relations and intercourse with the leaders of the Breckinridge wing
of the Democratic party during the progress of the Presidential canvass, and that party being
made up so exclusively of the extreme Southern Democrats, the President must have had constant
information of the progress and development of the disunion sentiment and purpose in the South.
He was not restricted as the other parties and the general public were to imperfect reports
and doubtful rumors current in the newspapers.

But in addition there now came to him an official warning which it was a grave error to disregard.
On October 29, one week before the election, the veteran Lieutenant-General Winfield Scott,
General-in-Chief of the Army, communicated to him in writing his serious apprehensions of coming
danger, and suggested such precautions as were then in the power of the Administration. Beginning
life as a farmer's boy, collegian, and law student, General Scott from choice became a soldier,
devoting himself to the higher aims of the profession of arms, and in a brilliant career of
half a century had achieved world-wide renown as a great military captain. In the United States,
however, the military is subordinated to the civic ambition, and Scott all his life retained
a strong leaning to diplomacy and statesmanship, and on several important occasions gave his
country valuable service in essentially civic functions. He had been the unsuccessful Presidential
candidate of the Whig party in 1852, a circumstance which no doubt greatly increased his personal
attention to current politics, then and afterwards. As the first military officer of the nation,
he was also the watchful guardian of the public peace.

  [Sidenote] Lieut.-General Winfield Scott, "Autobiography," Vol. I.,
  p. 234.

The impending rebellion was not to him, as it was to the nation at large, a new event in politics.
Many men were indeed aware, through tradition and history, that it was but the Calhoun nullification
treason revived and pushed to a bolder extreme. To General Scott it was almost literally the
repetition of an old experience. A generation before, he was himself a prominent actor in opposing
the nullification plot. About the 4th of November, 1832, upon special summons, he was taken
into a confidential interview by President Jackson, who, after asking Scott's military views
upon the threatened rebellion of the nullifiers in Charleston harbor, by oral orders charged
him with the duty of enforcing the laws and maintaining the supremacy of the Union; the President
placing at his orders the troops and vessels necessary for this purpose. Scott accepted the
trust and went to Charleston, and while humoring the nullification Quixotism existing there,
he executed the purpose of his mission, by strengthening the defenses and reenforcing; the
Federal forts.[1] His task was accomplished with the utmost delicacy, but with firmness. The
rebellion was indeed abandoned upon pretense of compromise; but had a conflict occurred at
that time the flag of the Union would probably not have been the first to be lowered in defeat.

It was, therefore, most fitting that in these new complications Lieutenant-General Scott should
officially admonish President Buchanan. He addressed to him a paper entitled "Views suggested
by the imminent danger (October 29, 1860) of a disruption of the Union by the secession of
one or more of the Southern States"; and also certain supplementary memoranda the day after,
to the Secretary of War, the two forming in reality but a single document. General Scott was
at this time residing in New York City, and the missives were probably twenty-four hours in
reaching Washington. This letter of the commander of the American armies written at such a
crisis is full of serious faults, and is a curious illustration of the temper of the times,
showing as it does that even in the mind of the first soldier of the republic the foundations
of political faith were crumbling away. The superficial and speculative theories of Scott the
politician stand out in unfavorable contrast to the practical advice of Scott the soldier.

Once break the Union by political madness, reasons Scott the politician, and any attempt to
restore it by military force would establish despotism and create anarchy. A lesser evil than
this would be to form four new confederacies out of the fragments of the old.[2] And on this
theme he theorizes respecting affinities and boundaries and the folly of secession.

  [Sidenote] "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," Appendix, p. 289.

The advice of Scott the soldier was wiser and more opportune. The prospect of Lincoln's election,
he says, causes threats of secession. There is danger that certain forts of national value
and importance, six totally destitute of troops, and three having only feeble and insufficient
garrisons, may be seized by insurgents. There were five companies of regulars within reach,
available for this service. This plan was provisional only; it eschewed the idea of invading
a seceded State; and he suggested the collection of customs duties, outside of the cities.

  [Sidenote] "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," p. 104.

  [Sidenote] Buchanan, in the "National Intelligencer," Oct. 1, 1862.

Eight to ten States on the verge of insurrection--nine principal sea-coast forts within their
borders, absolutely at the mercy of the first handful of street rabble that might collect,
and only about four hundred men, scattered in five different and distant cities, available
to reënforce them! It was a startling exhibit of national danger from one professionally competent
to judge and officially entitled to advise. His timely and patriotic counsel President Buchanan
treated with indifference and neglect. "From the impracticable nature of the 'Views,' and their
strange and inconsistent character, the President dismissed them from his mind without further
consideration." Such is Mr. Buchanan's own confession. He indulges in the excuse that to have
then attempted to put these five companies in all or part of these nine forts "would have been
a confession of weakness instead of an exhibition of imposing and overpowering strength." "None
of the Cotton States had made the first movement towards secession. Even South Carolina was
then performing all her relative duties, though most reluctantly, to the Government," etc.
"To have attempted such a military operation with so feeble a force, and the Presidential election
impending, would have been an invitation to collision and secession. Indeed, if the whole American
army, consisting then of only sixteen thousand men, had been 'within reach' they would have
been scarcely sufficient for this purpose."

The error of this reasoning was well shown by General Scott in a newspaper controversy which
subsequently ensued.[3] He pointed out that of the nine forts enumerated by him, six, namely,
Forts Moultrie and Sumter in Charleston harbor, Forts Pickens and McRae in Pensacola harbor,
and Forts Jackson and St. Philip guarding the Mississippi below New Orleans, were "twin forts"
on opposite sides of a channel, whose strength was more than doubled by their very position
and their ability to employ cross and flanking fire in mutual support and defense. These works,
together with the three others mentioned by General Scott, namely, Fort Morgan in Mobile harbor,
Fort Pulaski below Savannah, and Fortress Monroe at Hampton Roads, were all, because of their
situation at vital points, not merely works of local defense, but of the highest strategical
value. The reënforcements advised would surely have enabled the Government to hold them until
further defensive measures could have been arranged; and the effect of such possession on the
incipient insurrection may be well imagined when we remember the formidable armaments afterwards
employed in the reduction of such of them as were permitted, without an effort on the part
of President Buchanan to prevent it, to be occupied by the insurgents.

But the warning to the Administration that the Southern forts were in danger came not alone
from General Scott. Two of the works mentioned by him as of prime importance were Forts Moultrie
and Sumter in Charleston harbor. There was still a third fort there, Castle Pinckney, in a
better condition of repair and preparation than either of the former, and much nearer the city.
Had it been properly occupied and manned, its guns alone would have been sufficient to control
Charleston. But there was only an ordnance sergeant in Castle Pinckney, only an ordnance sergeant
in Fort Sumter, and a partial garrison in Fort Moultrie. Both Sumter and Moultrie were greatly
and Castle Pinckney slightly out of repair. During the summer of 1860 Congress made an appropriation
for these works; and the engineer captain who had been in charge for two years had indeed been
ordered to begin and prosecute repairs in the two forts.

  [Sidenote] Report, F.J. Porter. W.R.[4] Vol. I., pp. 70-72.

  [Sidenote] Craig to Floyd, Oct. 31, 1860, with Floyd's indorsement.
  W.R. Vol. I., pp. 67-8.

Captain J.G. Foster, the engineer to whom this duty was confided, was of New England birth
and a loyal and devoted soldier. He began work on the 12th of September; and not foreseeing
the consequences involved, employed in the different works between two and three hundred men,
partly hired in Charleston, partly in Baltimore. There were in the several forts not only the
cannon to arm them, but also considerable quantities of ammunition and other government property;
and aware of the hum of secession preparation which began to fill the air in Charleston, Captain
Foster in October asked the Ordnance Bureau at Washington for forty muskets, with which to
arm twenty workmen in Fort Sumter and twenty in Castle Pinckney. "If," wrote the Chief of Ordnance
to the Secretary of War, "the measure should on being communicated meet the concurrence of
the commanding officer of the troops in the harbor, I recommend that I may be authorized to
issue forty muskets to the engineer officer." Upon this recommendation, Secretary of War Floyd
wrote the word "approved." Under the usual routine of peaceful times the questions went by
mail to Colonel Gardner, then commander of the harbor, "Is it expedient to issue forty muskets
to Captain Foster? Is it proper to place arms in the hands of hired workmen? Is it expedient
to do so?"

  [Sidenote] Gardner to Craig, November 5, 1860. W.R. Vol. I.,
  pp. 68-9.

To this Colonel Gardner replied, under date of November 5, that, repeating what he had already
written, his fears were not of any attack on the works, authorized by the city or State, but
there was danger of such an attempt from a sudden tumultuary force; and that while in such
an event forty muskets would be desirable, he felt "constrained to say that the only proper
precaution--that which has no objection--is to fill these two companies with drilled recruits
(say fifty men) at once, and send two companies from Old Point Comfort to occupy, respectively,
Fort Sumter and Castle Pinckney."

  [Sidenote] Dawson, "Historical Magazine," January, 1872, p. 37.

  [Sidenote] F.J. Porter to Cooper, November 11, 1860. W.R. Vol. I.,
  pp. 70-72.

His answer and recommendation were both business-like and soldierly, and contained no indications
that justify any suspicion of his loyalty or judgment. Meanwhile, on the heels of this official
call for reënforcements, came a still more urgent one. It is alleged on the one hand that complaints
of the inefficiency of Colonel Gardner had reached Washington, and that, in consequence thereof,
either the Secretary of War or the President sent for specific information in regard to it.
Major Fitz John Porter, then Assistant Adjutant-General, on duty in the War Department, went
in person to Charleston, and made the examination. There are, on the other hand, several vague
allegations by the insurgents, to the substantial effect that this call for reënforcements
was Colonel Gardner's real offense; leaving the implication that Major Fitz John Porter's inspection
was purposely instituted to find reasons for removing the Colonel and thus frustrating the
obligation to send him additional troops. The order for Major Porter's visit was made on November
6; he returned to Washington and made an oral statement, and on the 11th of November wrote
out his report for the Department in due form.

  [Sidenote] Doubleday, "Forts Sumter and Moultrie," p. 19.

According to this report, while Colonel Gardner had been remiss in a few minor details, he
had in reality been vigilant, loyal, and efficient in main and important matters. He had foreseen
the coming danger, had advised the Government, and called for reënforcements; had recommended
not only strengthening the garrison of Moultrie, but the effective occupation of both Sumter
and Castle Pinckney; and had made an effort in good faith to remove the public arms and goods
from their exposed situation in the arsenal in the city of Charleston, to the security of the
fort. Though Southern in feeling and pro-slavery in sentiment, he was true to his oath and
his flag; and had he been properly encouraged and supported by his Government, would evidently
have merited no reproach for inefficiency or indifference.

  [Sidenote] 1860.

But the fatal entanglement of Buchanan's Administration with the slavery extremists had the
double effect of weakening loyalty in army officers and building up rebellion among the Southern
people. Instead of heeding the advice of Colonel Gardner to reënforce the forts, it removed
him from command, and within two months the President submitted silently to the taunt of the
South Carolina rebel commissioners that it was in punishment for his loyal effort to save the
Government property. Whatever the motive may have been, the Government was now fully warned,
as early as November 11, a week before the first secession jubilee in Charleston, and more
than a month before the passage of the secession ordinance, of the imminence of the insurrection
and danger to the forts. General Scott had warned it, Colonel Gardner had warned it, and now
again Major Porter, its special and confidential agent, had not only repeated that warning,
but his report had been made the basis of Government discussion in the change of commanders.

The action of the Government was unusually prompt. On November 11, as we have seen, Major Porter
made his written report, and on the 13th he delivered to Major Robert Anderson in New York
the order to take command of the forts and forces in Charleston harbor. Major Anderson, suitably
qualified by meritorious service, age, and rank, was deemed especially acceptable for the position
because he was a Kentuckian by birth, and related by marriage to a prominent family of Georgia.
Such sympathies as might influence him were supposed to be with the South, and his appointment
would not, therefore, grate harshly on the susceptibilities of the Charlestonians.

The statement, many times repeated, that he owned a plantation in the South is incorrect. He
never owned a plantation in Georgia or anywhere else. On the death of his father he came into
possession of a small number of slaves. These he liberated as soon as the proper papers could
be executed and sent to him at his distant post; and he always afterwards helped them when
they were in need and applied to him.[5]

  [Sidenote] F.J. Porter to Dawson. "Historical Magazine," January,
  1872, pp. 37, 38.

The army headquarters being then in New York, Major Anderson on the same day called on General
Scott, and in conversation with the veteran General-in-Chief learned that army affairs were
being carried on at Washington by Secretary Floyd, without consulting him. Under these circumstances
Scott did not deem himself authorized to interfere even by suggestion. Nevertheless, the whole
Charleston question seems to have been fully discussed, and the relative strength of the forts,
and the possible necessity of occupying Sumter commented upon in such manner as no doubt produced
its effect in the subsequent action of Anderson. Major Anderson next went to Washington, and
received the personal instructions of Secretary Floyd, and returning thereafter to New York,
General Scott in that city gave him on November 15th formal written orders to proceed to Fort
Moultrie and take command of the post.

---------- [1] His policy, frankly written in a friendly letter to a prominent nullifier, could
scarcely provoke the most captious criticism:

"You have probably heard of the arrival of two or three companies at Charleston in the last
six weeks, and you may hear that as many more have followed. There is nothing inconsistent
with the President's message in these movements. The intention simply is that the forts in
the harbor shall not be wrested from the United States.... The President, I presume, will stand
on the defensive, thinking it better to discourage than to invite an attack--better to prevent
than to repel one."--Lieut.-Gen. Winfield Scott, "Autobiography." Vol. I., p. 242.

[2] "All the lines of demarkation between the new Unions cannot be accurately drawn in advance,
but many of them approximately may. Thus, looking to natural boundaries and commercial affinities,
some of the following frontiers, after many waverings and conflicts, might perhaps become acknowledged
and fixed:

"1. The Potomac River and the Chesapeake Bay to the Atlantic. 2. From Maryland along the crest
of the Alleghany (perhaps the Blue Ridge) range of mountains, to some point on the coast of
Florida. 3. The line from say the head of the Potomac to the west or north-west, which it will
be most difficult to settle. 4. The crest of the Rocky Mountains.

"The South-east Confederacy would, in all human probability, in less than five years after
the rupture, find itself bounded by the first and second lines indicated above, the Atlantic,
and the Gulf of Mexico, with its capital at say Columbia, South Carolina. The country between
the second, third, and fourth of those lines would, beyond a doubt, in about the same time,
constitute another Confederacy, with its capital at probably Alton or Quincy, Illinois. The
boundaries of the Pacific Union are the most definite of all, and the remaining States would
constitute the Northeast Confederacy with its capital at Albany."--Scott, "Views," printed
in "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," pp. 287-288, Appendix.

[3] "But the ex-President sneers at my weak device for saving the forts. He forgets what the
gallant Anderson did with a handful of men in Fort Sumter, and leaves out of the account what
he might have done with a like handful in Fort Moultrie, even without further augmentation
of men to divide between the garrisons. Twin forts on the opposite sides of a channel not only
give a cross fire on the head of attack, but the strength of each is more than doubled by the
flanking fire of the other."--Gen. Scott, in the "National Intelligencer" of November 12, 1862.

[4] (As reference to the Government publication, "War of the Rebellion: Official Records of
the Union and Confederate Armies," will be so frequent in the course of this work, and under
its full title would require so much space, the authors have decided to adopt the simple abbreviation
"W.R.," as above. Where the number of the series is not mentioned, Series I. will always be
implied.)

[5] We are indebted to Mrs. Anderson, not only for the correction of this error, but for permission
to examine many private papers relating to Major Anderson's experience in Fort Sumter. It affords
us the highest pleasure to add that though all her relatives in Georgia became secessionists,
she remained enthusiastically and devotedly loyal to the Union, and that her letters carried
constant cheer and encouragement to her husband during the months he was besieged in Charleston
harbor.

CHAPTER XXI

THE CHARLESTON FORTS

  [Sidenote] Foster to De Russey, November 24, 1860. W.R. Vol. I.,
  p. 76.

Major Anderson reached Fort Moultrie and assumed command on the 21st of November, 1860. Having
from his several interviews with the President, Secretary of War, and Lieutenant-General Scott
become fully impressed with the importance of his trust, he proceeded as a first duty to acquaint
himself thoroughly with his situation and resources. The great Charleston secession celebration
on the 17th had been held while he was on his way; the glare of its illumination was extinguished,
the smoke of its bonfires had been dissipated by the fresh Atlantic breezes, and its holiday
insurgents had returned to the humdrum of their routine employments. It was, therefore, in
uninterrupted quiet that on the 23d of November he in company with Captain Foster made a tour
of inspection to the different forts, and on the same day wrote out and transmitted to the
War Department a somewhat detailed report of what he saw with eyes fresh to the scenes and
surroundings, which, as he already felt, were to become the subjects of his most intense solicitude.
On the main point, indeed, there was no room for doubt. Agreeing with General Scott, with Colonel
Gardner, and with Major Porter, he gave the Government its fourth warning that the harbor must
be immediately and strongly reenforced.

  [Sidenote] Anderson to Adjutant-General, November 23, 1860. W.R.
  Vol. I., p. 74.

    ... The garrison now in it [Moultrie] is so weak as to invite an
    attack, which is openly and publicly threatened. We are about
    sixty, and have a line of rampart of 1500 feet in length to
    defend. If beleaguered, as every man of the command must be either
    engaged or held on the alert, they will be exhausted and worn down
    in a few days and nights of such service as they would then have
    to undergo.

Such, in brief, was the condition of the fort he had been sent to hold. Moultrie was clearly
the weak point of the situation. Already informed, to some extent at least, by the superior
military genius of General Scott, in his recent interviews with that distinguished commander,
Major Anderson now more forcibly, from personal inspection, comprehended its strong points.
What was then perfectly obvious to the trained military insight of Scott and Anderson is now
in the light of historical events quite as obvious to the civilian. Look at any good map of
Charleston harbor, and it will be seen that the city lies on the extreme point of a tongue
of land between the Ashley and Cooper rivers, every part being within easy range under the
guns of Castle Pinckney, on a small island, three-quarters of a mile distant. Four miles to
seaward is the mouth of the harbor, and nearly midway therein stood the more extensive and
imposing work of Fort Sumter, its guns not only sweeping all the approaches and ship-channels,
but the shores and islands on either hand. It needs but a glance at the map to see that with
proper garrisons and armaments Fort Sumter commanded the harbor. and Castle Pinckney commanded
the city.

If the Government could hitherto plead ignorance of these advantages against the rising insurrection,
that excuse was no longer left after the report of Major Anderson. In this same report he calls
attention to them in detail. Though not in a complete state of defense, he gives notice that
Fort Sumter "is now ready for the comfortable accommodation of one company, and indeed for
the temporary reception of its proper garrison. Captain Foster states that the magazines (four)
are done and in excellent condition; that they now contain forty thousand pounds of cannon-powder
and a full supply of ammunition for one tier of guns. This work [Sumter] is the key to the
entrance of this harbor; its guns command this work [Moultrie], and could soon drive out its
occupants. It should be garrisoned at once."

Still more strenuously does he insist upon the value of Castle Pinckney. "Castle Pinckney,
a small casemated work, perfectly commanding the city of Charleston, is in excellent condition
with the exception of a few repairs, which will require the expenditure of about five hundred
dollars.... It is, in my opinion, essentially important that this castle should be immediately
occupied by a garrison, say, of two officers and thirty men. The safety of our little garrison
would be rendered more certain, and our fort would be more secure from an attack by such a
holding of Castle Pinckney, than it would be from quadrupling our force. The Charlestonians
would not venture to attack this place [Moultrie] when they knew that their city was at the
mercy of the commander of Castle Pinckney.... If my force was not so very small I would not
hesitate to send a detachment at once to garrison that work." So full of zeal was Major Anderson
that the Government should without delay augment its moral and material strength, that in default
of soldiers he desired to improvise a garrison for it by sending there a detachment of thirty
laborers in charge of an officer, vainly hoping to supply them with arms and instruct them
in drill, and hold the work until reënforcements should come. Having in detail proposed protective
measures, he again, in the same letter, forcibly presents the main question of the hour to
the Secretary of War, whose weakness and treachery were as yet unsuspected.

  [Sidenote] Anderson to Adjutant General, Nov. 23, 1860. W.R. Vol.
  I., pp. 75-6. I do, then, most earnestly
    entreat that a reënforcement be immediately sent to this garrison,
    and that at least two companies be sent at the same time to Fort
    Sumter and Castle Pinckney--half a company, under a judicious
    commander, sufficing, I think, for the latter work.... With these
    three works garrisoned as requested, and with a supply of ordnance
    stores, for which I shall send requisitions in a few days, I shall
    feel that, by the blessing of God, there may be a hope that no
    blood will be shed, and that South Carolina will not attempt to
    take these forts by force, but will resort to diplomacy to secure
    them. If we neglect, however, to strengthen ourselves, she will,
    unless these works are surrendered on their first demand, most
    assuredly immediately attack us.

  [Sidenote] Adjutant-General to Anderson, Nov. 24, 1860. W.R. Vol.
  I., p. 76.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Nov 28, 1860, W.R. Vol. I., p. 77.

If Major Anderson had added no further word to the clear and straightforward statement and
recommendation thus far quoted, his professional judgment and manly sense of duty would stand
honorably vindicated before posterity. But his language of loyalty, of wisdom, of humanity,
of soldierly devotion, which ought to have elicited a reply as inspiring as a drum-roll or
a trumpet-blast, brought him no kindred echo. There was fear in the Executive Mansion, conspiracy
in the Cabinet, treason and intrigue in the War Department. Chilling instructions came that
he might employ civilians in fatigue and police duty, and that he might send his proposed party
of laborers to Castle Pinckney. Meanwhile some of his suggestions would be under consideration;
besides, he was cautioned to send his communications to the Adjutant-General or Secretary of
War, with the evident purpose to forestall and prevent any patriotic order or suggestion which
might otherwise reach him from General Scott.

Nevertheless, Anderson did not weary in his manifest duty. His letters of November 28 and December
1, though perhaps not as full and urgent, are substantial repetitions of his former recommendations.
The growing excitement of the Charleston populace and the increasing danger to the forts are
restated with emphasis. He says that there appears to be a romantic desire urging the South
Carolinians to have possession of Fort Moultrie. Various reports come, that as soon as the
State should secede the forts would be demanded, and if not surrendered, they would be taken.
All rumors and remarks indicate a fixed purpose to have these works. The Charlestonians are
drilling nightly, and making every preparation for the fight which they say must take place.

  [Sidenote] Anderson to Adjutant-General, Nov. 28, 1860. W.R. Vol.
  I., pp. 78-9.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 1, 1860. W.R. Vol. I. pp. 81-2.

Once more he repeated that the security of Fort Moultrie would be more greatly increased by
throwing garrisons into Castle Pinckney and Fort Sumter than by anything that could be done
in strengthening its own defenses. He sent a detailed report of his command to force again
upon the attention of the Department his fatal deficiency in numbers, and to show the practical
impossibility of repelling an assault, or resisting a siege with any reasonable hope of success.
His letters reached the same inevitable conclusion: "The question for the Government to decide--and
the sooner it is done the better--is, whether, when South Carolina secedes, these forts are
to be surrendered or not. If the former, I must be informed of it, and instructed what course
I am to pursue. If the latter be the determination, no time is to be lost in either sending
troops, as already suggested, or vessels of war to this harbor. Either of these courses may
cause some of the doubting States to join South Carolina. I shall go steadily on preparing
for the worst, trusting hopefully in the God of battles to guard and guide me in my course."

While Anderson was thus penning the plain issue, as it lay in the clear light of a soldier's
conception of right and conviction of duty, another pen was framing the reply agreed upon by
the President and his advisers at Washington. Major Anderson might have faith in the God of
battles, but what faith could he have in a Government holding one-third of a vast continent
peopled by thirty millions of freemen which could not or would not, in face of the most urgent
reiterated appeals and the most imminent and palpable necessity, send him two or three companies
of recruits, when the possession of three forts, the peace of a city, the allegiance of a State,
if not the tremendous alternative of civil war, hung in the balance?

  [Sidenote] Adjutant-General to Anderson, Dec. 1, 1860. W.R. Vol.
  I., pp. 82, 83.

"It is believed,"--so ran the reply, and apparently the final decision of the Government,--"from
information thought to be reliable, that an attack will not be made on your command, and the
Secretary has only to refer to his conversation with you, and to caution you that should his
convictions unhappily prove untrue, your actions must be such as to be free from the charge
of initiating a collision. If attacked, you are, of course, expected to defend the trust committed
to you to the best of your ability. The increase of the force under your command, however much
to be desired, would, the Secretary thinks, judging from the recent excitement produced on
account of an anticipated increase, as mentioned in your letter, but add to that excitement
and might lead to serious results."

This renunciation by the War Department of the proper show of authority and power, demanded
by plain necessity and repeatedly urged by its trusted agents, must have touched the pride
of Anderson and his brother officers. But a still deeper humiliation was in store for them,
The same letter brought him the following notice: "The Secretary of War has directed Brevet
Colonel Huger to repair to this city as soon as he can safely leave his post, to return there
in a short time. He desires you to see Colonel Huger, and confer with him prior to his departure
on the matters which have been confided to each of you."

  [Sidenote] Abner Doubleday, "Reminiscences of Forts Sumter and
  Moultrie," p. 42.

Colonel Huger was an ordnance officer of the army, then stationed for duty in Charleston, of
distinguished connections in that city, and having on that account as well as personally great
local influence.

What the precise nature of the instructions were, which the Department sent him, does not appear
from any accessible correspondence. The result of the action which the two officers took thereunder
is, however, less doubtful.

It appears to have been, in effect, a mission by two army officers of honorable rank, in obedience
to direct commands from the Secretary of War, to humbly beg the Charlestonians not to assault
the forts. Major Anderson on his part dismisses the distasteful mission with a significantly
curt report: "I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt on the 4th of your communication
of the 1st instant. In compliance therewith I went yesterday to the city of Charleston to confer
with Colonel Huger, and I called with him upon the Mayor of the city, and upon several other
prominent citizens. All seemed determined, as far as their influence or power extends, to prevent
an attack by a mob on our fort; but all are equally decided in the opinion that the forts must
be theirs after secession."

What a bitter confession for a brave and sensitive soldier, who knew that with half a company
of artillerymen in Castle Pinckney, as he had vainly demanded, the Charleston mob, with the
conspiring Governor and insurgent secession convention, would have been compelled to accept
from him, as the representative of a forbearing Government, the safety of their roof-trees
and the security of their hearthstones.

  [Sidenote] Anderson to Adjutant-General, Dec. 6, 1860. W.R. Vol.
  I., pp. 87, 88.

But, his duty was to obey, and so he resigned himself without a murmur to the hard conditions
which had fallen to his lot. "I shall, nevertheless," adds Anderson, "knowing how excitable
this community is, continue to keep on the qui vive and, as far as is in my power, steadily
prepare my command to the uttermost to resist any attack that may be made.... Colonel Huger
designs, I think, leaving Charleston for Washington to-morrow night. He is more hopeful of
a settlement of impending difficulties without bloodshed than I am."

CHAPTER XXII

THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

Less than a month intervened between the November election at which Lincoln had been chosen
and the annual session of Congress, which would meet on the first Monday of December, and it
was necessary at once to begin the preparation of the annual message. A golden opportunity
presented itself to President Buchanan. The suffrages of his fellow-citizens had covered his
political theories, his party measures, and his official administration with condemnation,
in an avalanche of ballots.[1] But the Charleston conspirators had within a very few days created
for him a new issue overshadowing all the questions on which he had suffered political wreck.
Since the 6th of November the campaign of the Border Ruffians for the conquest of Kansas, and
the wider Congressional struggle for the possession of the Territories, might be treated as
things of the past. Even had they still been pending issues, they paled into insignificance
before the paramount question of disunion. Face to face with, this danger, the adherents of
Lincoln, of Douglas, of Bell, and the fraction of the President's own partisans in the free-States
would be compelled to postpone their discords and as one man follow the constitutional ruler
in a constitutional defense of the laws, the flag, and the territory of the Union.

Without change of position, without recantation of principle, without abatement even of declared
party doctrine, honestly executing only the high mandate of the Constitution, he could turn
from the old issues and take up the new. A single stride, and from the flying leader of a discomfited
rout he might become the mailed hero of an overpowering host. Tradition, patriotism, duty,
the sleepless monition of a solemn official oath, all summoned him to take this step, and the
brilliant example set by President Jackson--an incident forever luminous in American history--assured
him of the plaudits of posterity.

Unfortunately for himself and for his country, President Buchanan had neither the intellectual
independence nor the courage required for such an act of moral heroism. Of sincere patriotism
and of blameless personal rectitude, he had reached political eminence by slow promotion through
seniority, not by brilliancy of achievement. He was a politician, not a statesman. Of fair
ability, and great industry in his earlier life, the irresolution and passiveness of advancing
age and physical infirmity were now upon him. Though from the free-State of Pennsylvania, he
saw with Southern eyes and heard with Southern ears, and had convinced himself that the South
was acting under the impulse of resentment arising from deliberate and persistent injuries
from the North.

The fragment of an autograph diary of John B. Floyd, Secretary of War,[2] affords the exact
evidence of the temper in which President Buchanan officially confronted the rebellion of the
Southern States. The following are extracts from entries, on several days, beginning with November
7, 1860, the day following the Presidential election:

    WASHINGTON CITY, November 7, 1860.

    ... The President wrote me a note this evening, alluding to a
    rumor which reached the city to the effect that an armed force
    had attacked and carried the forts in Charleston harbor. He
    desired me to visit him, which I did, and assured him that the
    rumor was altogether without foundation, and gave it as my
    opinion that there was no danger of such an attempt being made.
    We entered upon a general conversation upon the subject of
    disunion and discussed the probabilities of it pretty fully. We
    concurred in the opinion that all indications from the South
    looked as if disunion was inevitable. He said that whilst his
    reason told him there was great danger, yet his feelings repelled
    the conviction of his mind.

    Judge Black, the Attorney-General, was present during a part of
    the conversation, and indicated an opinion, that any attempt at
    disunion by a State should be put down by all the power of the
    Government.[3]

    November 9 ... A Cabinet meeting was held as usual at I o'clock;
    all the members were present, and the President said the business
    of the meeting was the most important ever before the Cabinet
    since his induction into office. The question, he said, to be
    considered and discussed, was as to the course the Administration
    should advise him to pursue in relation to the threatening aspect
    of affairs in the South, and most particularly in South Carolina.
    After a considerable amount of desultory conversation, he asked
    the opinions of each member of the Cabinet as to what should be
    done or said relative to a suggestion which he threw out. His
    suggestion was that a proposition should be made for a general
    convention of the States as provided for under the Constitution,
    and to propose some plan of compromising the angry disputes
    between the North and the South. He said if this were done, and
    the North or non-slaveholding States should refuse it, the South
    would stand justified before the whole world for refusing longer
    to remain in a confederacy where her rights were so shamefully
    violated. He said he was compelled to notice at length the
    alarming condition of the country, and that he would not shrink
    from the duty.

    General Cass spoke with earnestness and much feeling about the
    impending crisis--admitted fully all the great wrongs and
    outrages which had been committed against the South by Northern
    fanaticism, and deplored it. But he was emphatic in his
    condemnation of the doctrine of secession by any State from the
    Union. He doubted the efficacy of the appeal for a convention,
    but seemed to think it might do well enough to try it. He spoke
    warmly in favor of using force to coerce a State that attempted
    to secede.

    Judge Black, the Attorney-General, was emphatic in his advocacy
    of coercion, and advocated earnestly the propriety of sending at
    once a strong force into the forts in Charleston harbor, enough
    to deter, if possible, the people from, any attempt at disunion.
    He seemed to favor the idea of an appeal for a general convention
    of all the States.

    Governor Cobb, the Secretary of the Treasury, declared his very
    decided approbation of the proposition for two reasons--first,
    that it afforded the President a great opportunity for a high and
    statesmanlike treatment of the whole subject of agitation, and
    the proper remedies to prevent it; secondly, because, in his
    judgment, the failure to procure that redress which the South
    would be entitled to and would demand (and that failure he
    thought certain), would tend to unite the entire South in a
    decided disunion movement. He thought disunion inevitable, and
    under present circumstances most desirable.

    Mr. Holt, the Postmaster-General, thought the proposition for the
    convention dangerous, for the reason that if the call should be
    made and it should fail to procure redress, those States which
    now are opposed to secession might find themselves inclined, from
    a feeling of honor, to back the States resolving on disunion.
    Without this common demand and common failure he thought there
    would be no such danger of united action, and therefore a
    stronger prospect of some future plan of reconciliation.

    Mr. Thompson, the Secretary of the Interior, thought well of the
    plan of calling for a general convention--thought his State
    (Mississippi) about equally divided between the union and
    disunion men. He deprecated the idea of force, and said any show
    of it by the Government would instantly make Mississippi a unit
    in favor of disunion.

    Mr. Toucey, Secretary of the Navy, thought well of the appeal for
    the convention--coincided in an opinion I had expressed, that
    retaliatory State measures would prove most availing for bringing
    the Northern fanatics to their senses.

    I expressed myself decidedly opposed to any rash movement, and
    against the idea of secession at this time. We are to meet to-morrow at 1 o'clock.

  [Sidenote] Pollard, "Life and Times of Robert E. Lee," etc., pp.
  790-94.

    November 10 ... We had a Cabinet meeting to-day, at which the
    President read a very elaborate document, prepared either as a
    part of his message or as a proclamation. It was well written in
    the main, and met with extravagant commendation from General
    Cass, Governor Toucey, Judge Black, and Mr. Holt. Cobb, Thompson,
    and myself found much to differ from in it,--Cobb because it
    inculcated submission to Lincoln's election and intimated the use
    of force to coerce a submission to his rule, and because it
    reprehended the policy of the Kansas-Nebraska bill; Thompson
    because of the doctrine of acquiescence and the hostility to the
    secession doctrine. I objected to it because I think it misses
    entirely the temper of the Southern people and attacks the true
    State-Rights doctrine on the subject of secession. I do not see
    what good can come of the paper, as prepared, and I do see how
    much mischief may flow from it.

It is an open question whether we may accept these extracts at their full literal import. Either
the words "coerce," "submission," "use of force," and so on, are written down by the diarist
in a sense different from that in which they were spoken, or the President and several of his
counselors underwent an amazing change of sentiment. But in a general way they show us that
on the fourth day after Lincoln's election the Buchanan Cabinet was already divided into hostile
camps. Cass of Michigan, Secretary of State, Toucey of Connecticut, Secretary of the Navy,
Black of Pennsylvania, Attorney-General, and Holt of Kentucky, Postmaster-General, were emphatic
Unionists; while Cobb of Georgia, Secretary of the Treasury, Thompson of Mississippi, Secretary
of the Interior, and Floyd of Virginia, Secretary of War, were secessionists--the latter yet
professing devotion to the Union, but with such ifs and buts as left sufficiently clear evidence
of his inevitable drift to disloyalty.

All impulses of prudence and patriotism ought to have moved the President to reconstruct his
Cabinet. But instead of some energetic executive act of this character, he seems to have applied
himself to the composition of a political essay to teach the North its duty; as if his single
pen had power to change the will of the people of the United States upon a point which they
had decided by their votes only four days previously after six years of discussion. This was
a true touchstone; it instantly brought out not only the open secessionism of Cobb and Thompson,
but the disguised disloyalty of Floyd.

It is a strange historical phenomenon that, with the President and a majority of the Cabinet
in this frame of mind, the South should have been permitted to organize rebellion. The solution
seems to lie in the temporizing feebleness of Buchanan and in the superior finesse and daring
conspiracy of Cobb, Thompson, and Floyd.

Many indications make it evident that a long factional struggle took place over the preparation
of the President's message. The telegraph announced several protracted Cabinet sessions; and
as early as the 21st of November the points under discussion and the attitude of the President
and his several official advisers were accurately foreshadowed in the newspapers. Nor were
these momentous deliberations confined to the Cabinet proper. All the varieties of suggestion
and contradictory counsels which were solicited or tendered we may never learn, and yet we
know enough to infer the highest extremes and antagonisms of doctrine and policy. Jefferson
Davis, the future chief of the rebellion, came on the one hand at the urgent call of his fellow-conspirators;
Edwin M. Stanton, afterwards Buchanan's Attorney-General and Lincoln's Secretary of War,[4]
was on the other hand called in by Mr. Buchanan himself, to help him through, the intricate
maze of his perplexed opinions and inclinations. How many others may have come voluntarily
or by summons it is impossible to guess. Many brains and hands, however, must have joined in
the work, since the document is such a heterogeneous medley of conflicting theories, irreconcilable
doctrines, impracticable and irrelevant suggestions. For at length the hesitating and bewildered
President, unable to decide and impotent to construct, seems to have made his message a patchwork
from the contributions of his advisers, regular and irregular, with the inevitable effect,
not to combine and strengthen, but to weaken and confuse the warring thoughts and alien systems.

Aside from the mere recapitulation of department reports, the message of President Buchanan
delivered to Congress on the 4th of December occupied itself mainly with two subjects--slavery
and disunion. On the question of slavery it repeated the assertions and arguments of the Buchanan
faction of the Democratic party during the late Presidential campaign, charging the present
peril entirely upon the North. As a remedy it recommended an amendment to the Federal Constitution
expressly[5] recognizing slavery in States which had adopted or might adopt it, and also expressly
giving it existence and protection in the Federal Territories. The proposal was simply childish.
Precisely this issue had been decided at the Presidential election; to do this would be to
reverse the final verdict of the ballot-box.[6]

On the question of disunion or secession, the message raised a vague and unwarrantable distinction
between the infractions of law and allegiance by individuals, and the infractions of law and
allegiance by the commonwealth, or body politic denominated a State.

But, continued the President, the laws can only be executed in certain prescribed methods,
through the agency of courts, marshals, posse comitatus, aided, if necessary, by the militia
or land and naval forces. The means and agencies, therefore, fail, and the performance of this
duty becomes impraticable, when, as in South Carolina, universal public sentiment has deprived
him of courts, marshals, and posse. Present laws being inadequate to overcome a united opposition,
even in a single State, Congress alone has the power to decide whether they can be effectually
amended.[7]

It will be seen from the above summary, that the whole of the President's rambling discussion
of the first head of the disunion question resulted logically in three ultimate conclusions:
(1) That South Carolina was in revolt; (2) that the Constitution, the laws, and moral obligation
all united gave the Government the right to suppress this revolt by executing the laws upon
and against the citizens of that State; (3) that certain defects in the laws paralyzed their
practical enforcement.

Up to this point in his argument, his opinions, whatever may be thought of their soundness,
were confined to the legitimate field of executive interpretation, and such as in the exercise
of his official discretion he might with undoubted propriety communicate to Congress. But he
had apparently failed to satisfy his own conscience in thus summarily reasoning the executive
and governmental power of a young, compact, vigorous, and thoroughly organized nation of thirty
millions of people into sheer nothingness and impotence. How supremely absurd was the whole
national panoply of commerce, credit, coinage, treaty power, judiciary, taxation, militia,
army and navy, and Federal fag, if, through the mere joint of a defective law, the hollow reed
of a secession ordinance could inflict a fatal wound!

  [Sidenote] Appendix, "Globe," Dec. 3, 1860, p. 3.

The President proceeds, therefore, to discuss the second head of the disunion question, by
an attempt to formulate and define the powers and duties of Congress with reference to the
threatened rebellion. He would not only roll the burden from his own shoulders upon the National
Legislature, but he would by volunteer advice instruct that body how it must be borne and disposed
of. Why waste words over doubtful theories when there was pressing need to suggest practical
amendments to the statute whose real or imaginary defects Mr. Buchanan had pointed out? Why
indulge in lamentations over the remote possibility that Congress might violate the Constitution,
when the occasion demanded only prompt preventive orders from the Executive to arrest the actual
threatened violation of law by Charleston mobs? Why talk of war against States when the duty
of the hour was the exercise of acknowledged authority against insurrectionary citizens?

The issue and argument were wholly false and irrelevant. No State had yet seceded. Execute
such laws of the United States as were in acknowledged vigor, and disunion would be impossible.
Buchanan needed only to do what he afterwards so truthfully asserted Lincoln had done.[8] But
through his inaction, and still more through his declared want of either power or right to
act, disunion gained two important advantages--the influence of the Executive voice upon public
opinion, and especially upon Congress; and the substantial pledge of the Administration that
it would lay no straw in the path of peaceful, organized measures to bring about State secession.

  [Sidenote] Correspondence, N.Y. "Evening Post".

  [Sidenote] Washington "Constitution" of December 19, 1860.

  [Sidenote] London "Times," Jan. 9, 1851.

The central dogma of the message, that while a State has no right to secede, the Union has
no right to coerce, has been universally condemned as a paradox. The popular estimate of Mr.
Buchanan's proposition and arguments was forcibly presented at the time by a jesting criticism
attributed to Mr. Seward. "I think," said the New York Senator, "the President has conclusively
proved two things: (1) That no State has the right to secede unless it wishes to; and (2) that
it is the President's duty to enforce the laws unless somebody opposes him." No less damaging
was the explanation put upon his language by his political friends. The recognized organ of
the Administration said: "Mr. Buchanan has increased the displeasure of the Lincoln party by
his repudiation of the coercion theory, and his firm refusal to permit a resort to force as
a means of preventing the secession of a sovereign State." Nor were intelligent lookers-on
in foreign lands less severe in their judgment: "Mr. Buchanan's message," said the London "Times,"
a month later, "has been a greater blow to the American people than all the rant of the Georgian
Governor or the 'ordinances' of the Charleston Convention. The President has dissipated the
idea that the States which elected him constitute one people."

---------- [1] There were 3,832,240 opposition popular votes against 847,953 for Breckinridge
and Lane, the Presidential ticket championed by Mr. Buchanan and his adherents.

[2] Printed in "The Early Life, Campaigns, and Public Services of Robert E. Lee, with a record
of the campaigns and heroic deeds of his companions in arms, by a distinguished Southern journalist."
8vo. E.B. Treat, publisher, New York, 1871; p. 789; article, Major-General John B. Floyd. It
says: "Among his private papers examined after his death the fragment of a diary was found,
written in his own hand, and which is here copied entire." The diary also bears internal evidence
of genuineness.

[3] The astounding mysteries and eccentricities of politics find illustration in the remarkable
contrast between this recorded impulsive and patriotic expression of Attorney-General Black
on November 7, and his labored official opinion of an apparently opposite tenor, certified
to the President under date of November 20. See "Opinions of the Attorneys-General." Vol. IX.,
p. 517.

[4] "It was while these plans for a coup d'état before the 4th of
March were being matured in the very Cabinet itself and in the presence
of a President too feeble to resist them and too blind oven to see them,
that Mr. Stanton was sent for by Mr. Buchanan to answer the question,
'Can a State be coerced?' For two hours he battled, and finally
scattered for the time being the heresies with which secession had
filled the head of that old broken-down man. He was requested to prepare
an argument in support of the power, to be inserted in the forthcoming
message."--Hon. H.L. Dawes, in the "Boston Congregationalist." See
 "Atlantic Monthly," October, 1870, p. 468.

[5] Slavery existed by virtue of express enactments in the several constitutions of the slave
States, but the Constitution of the United States gave it only implied recognition and toleration.

[6] "It was with some surprise, I confess, that I read the message of the President. The message
laid down certain conditions as those upon which alone the great Confederacy of the United
States could be preserved from disruption. In so doing the President appeared to be preparing
beforehand an apology for the secession. Had the conditions, indeed, been such as the Northern
States would be likely to accept, the message might have been considered one of peace. But
it seems very improbable that the Northern States should now, at the moment of their triumph,
and with large majorities of Republicans in their assemblies, submit to conditions which, during
many years of struggle, they have rejected or evaded."--Lord John Russell to Lord Lyons, December
26, 1860. British Blue Book.

[7] The logic of the message breaks down by the palpable omission to state the well-known fact
that, though every citizen of South Carolina, or any other State, might refuse to accept or
execute the office of United States marshal, or, indeed, any Federal office, the want could
be immediately lawfully supplied by appointing any qualified citizen of any other State, who
might lawfully and properly lead either a posse, or Federal forces, or State militia, to put
down obstruction of the Federal laws, insurrection, or rebellion. President Buchanan admitted
his own error, and repudiated his own doctrine, when on January 2, following, he nominated
a citizen of Pennsylvania for the office of collector of the port of Charleston, South Carolina.

Sections two and three of the Act of February 28, 1795, authorize the President, when the execution
of the laws is obstructed by insurrection too powerful for courts and marshals, to call forth
the militia of any and all the States, first and primarily to "suppress such combinations,"
and, secondly, "to cause the laws to be duly executed, and the use of militia so to be called
forth may be continued, if necessary, until the expiration of thirty days after the commencement
of the then next session of Congress." In performing this duty the act imposes but a single
condition or prerequisite on the Executive: he shall "by proclamation command the insurgents
to disperse." These sections are complete, harmonious, self-sufficient, and, in their chief
provisions, nowise dependent upon or connected with any other section or clause of the act.
They place under the President's command the whole militia, and by a subsequent law (March
3, 1807) also the entire army and navy of the Union, against rebellion. The assertion that
the army can only follow a marshal and his writ in case of rebellion, is not only unsupported
by the language of the act, but utterly refuted by strong implication. The last section repeals
a former provision limiting the President's action to cases of insurrection of which United
States judges shall have given him notice, and thereby remits him to any and all of his official
sources of information. Jackson's famous force bill only provided certain supplementary details;
it directly recognized and invoked the great powers of the Act of 1795, and expiring by limitation,
left its wholesome plenitude and broad original grant of authority unrepealed and unimpaired.

[8] "Happily our civil war was undertaken and prosecuted in self-defense, not to coerce a State,
but to enforce the execution of the laws within the States against individuals, and to suppress
an unjust rebellion raised by a conspiracy among them against the Government of the United
States."--Buchanan, in "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," p. 129.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE CHARLESTON CONSPIRATORS

As President Buchanan might have foreseen, his inconsistent message proved satisfactory to
neither friend nor foe. The nation was on the eve of rebellion and had urgent need of remedial
acts, not of temporizing theories, least of all theories which at the late Presidential election
had been rejected as errors and dangers. The message served as a topic to initiate debate in
Congress; but this debate, resting only on the main subject long enough to cover the Chief
Magistrate's views and recommendations as a whole, with almost unanimous expressions of dissent,
and even of contempt, passed on to words of mutual defiance and open declarations of revolutionary
purpose.

The conspirators in the Cabinet had done their work. By the official declarations of the President
of the United States, the Government had tied its own hands--had resolved and proclaimed the
duty and policy of non-resistance to organized rebellion. Henceforth disunionists, secessionists,
nullifiers, and conspirators of every kind had but to combine under alleged State action, and
through the instrumentalities of State Legislatures and State conventions cast off without
let or hinderance their Federal obligations by resolves and ordinances. The semblance of a
vote, a few scratches of the pen, a proclamation, and a new flag, and at once without the existence
of a corporal's squad, or the smell of burnt powder, there would appear on the horizon of American
politics, if not a de jure at least a de facto State!

If there had hitherto been any doubt or hesitation in the minds of the principal secession
leaders of the South, it vanished under the declared policy of inaction of the Federal Administration.
The President's message was a practical assurance of immunity from arrest and prosecution for
treason. It magnified their grievances, specifically pointed out a contingent right and duty
of revolution, acknowledged that mere public sentiment might override and nullify Federal laws,
and pointedly bound up Federal authority in narrow legal and Constitutional restrictions. It
was blind as a mole to find Federal power, but keen-eyed as a lynx to discover Federal impotence.

The leaders of secession were not slow to avail themselves of the favorable situation. Between
the date of the message and the incoming of the new and possibly hostile Administration there
intervened three full months. It was the season of political activity--the period during which
legislatures meet, messages are written, and laws enacted. It afforded ample time to authorize,
elect, and hold State conventions. Excitement was at fever heat in the South, and public sentiment
paralyzed, despondent, and divided at the North.

Accordingly, as if by a common impulse, the secession movement sprang into quick activity and
united effort. The recommendation of Yancey's "scarlet letter" had been literally carried out;
the Cotton States were precipitated into revolution.

In this movement of secession the State of South Carolina was the enthusiastic pioneer. At
the date of the President's message she had already provided by law for the machinery of a
convention, though no delegates had been elected. Nevertheless, her Legislature at once plunged
pell-mell into the task of making laws for the new condition of independent sovereignty which
by common consent the convention was in a few days to declare. Questions of army and navy,
postal communication, and foreign diplomacy, for the moment eclipsed the baser topics of estray
laws or wolf-scalp bounties, and the little would-be Congress fully justified the reported
sarcasm of one of her leading citizens that "the Palmetto State was too small for a republic
and too large for a lunatic asylum."

But, with all their outward fire and zeal for nationality, her politicians were restrained
by an undercurrent of prudence. A revolution even under exceptional advantages is a serious thing.

  [Sidenote] Speech of Mr. Magrath in the South Carolina Convention,
  Dec. 19, 1860. "Annual Cyclopedia," 1861, p. 619.

Therefore the agitators of South Carolina scanned the President's message with unconcealed
eagerness. In that paradox of assertions and denials, of purposes to act and promises to refrain,
they found much to assure them, but also something to cause doubt. "As I understand the message
of the President of the United States," explained Mr. Magrath to the South Carolina Convention,
"he affirms it as his right, and constitutional duty, and high obligation to protect the property
of the United States within the limits of South Carolina, and to enforce the laws of the Union
within the limits of South Carolina. He says he has no constitutional power to coerce South
Carolina, while at the same time he denies to her the right of secession. It may be, and I
apprehend it will be, Mr. President, that the attempt to coerce South Carolina will be made
under the pretense of protecting the property of the United States within the limits of South
Carolina. I am disposed, therefore, at the very threshold to test the accuracy of this logic,
and test the conclusions of the President of the United States."

  [Sidenote] "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," p. 126.

President Buchanan had indeed declared in his message that the Constitution gave the Federal
Government no power to coerce a State.

So far as mere political theories could go, this was certainly an important concession to the
conspirators. In virtue of these doctrines, they could proceed, without danger to life and
property, to hold conventions, pass secession ordinances, resign and refuse Federal offices,
repudiate Northern debts, and effectively stop all Federal mails at the State line. But reading
another passage in this paradoxical message of President Buchanan, they found these other propositions
and purposes, involving a flat contradiction, and which with sufficient reason excited the
apprehensions of Mr. Magrath and his fellow-conspirators.

  [Sidenote] "Mr. Buchanan's Administration," p. 126.

It was, of course, in vain that Mr. Magrath and other South Carolina constitutional expounders
protested against this absurd want of logic. It was in vain that they could demonstrate that
protecting the property of the Union was but another name for coercion; that if the President
could lawfully from another State appoint a successor to the Federal collector, he could in
the same manner appoint a successor to the Federal judge, district attorney, and marshal; that
if he could execute the revenue laws he could execute the steamboat laws, the postal laws,
or the criminal laws; that if, with Federal bayonets, he could stop a mob at the door of the
custom-house, he could do the same at the door of the court-room; that it would be no more
offensive war to employ a regiment to protect a bonded warehouse than a jail; a shipping dock
than a post-office; a dray-load of merchandise passing across a street than a mail car in transitu
across a State; that coercing a Charleston belle to pay the custom duties on her silk gown,
and a Palmetto orator to suffer the imposition of foreign tribute on his champagne was in fact
destroying the whole splendid theory of exclusive State sovereignty.

It followed, therefore, that the issue was not one of constitutional theory, but of practical
administration; not of legislation, but of war. The argument of the President's message was
palpably illogical and ridiculous, but there in black and white stood his intention to collect
the revenue and protect the public property; yonder in the bay were Pinckney, Moultrie, and
Sumter; under the flag of the Union was a devoted band of troops and a brave officer, with
orders to hold the fort.

For the present, then, the wall of Fort Moultrie was the iron collar around the neck of the
coveted "sovereignty" of South Carolina. How to break that fetter was the narrow, simple problem.
A half-finished inclosure of brick walls, standing in the midst of sand-hills which gave commanding
elevations, and buildings which effectually masked the approach of an assaulting column, and
containing, all told, but sixty men to guard 1500 feet of rampart. The street rabble of Charleston
could any night clamber over the thinly defended walls, and at least a score of companies of
minute men, drilled and equipped, could be brought by rail from the interior of the State to
garrison and hold it. But what then? That would bring Federal troops in Federal ships of war,
and in a short, quick struggle the substantial standing preparations of the Government would
overcome the extemporized preparations of the State, and the insurrection would be hopelessly
quelled.

  [Sidenote] Trescott's Narrative, Samuel Wylie Crawford, "Story of
  Sumter." pp. 28-30.

To prevent reënforcement was the vital point, and this had been clearly perceived and acted
upon from the beginning. While the preparation of President Buchanan's message was yet under
discussion the Cabinet cabal had earnestly deliberated upon the most effective intrigue to
be employed to deter the President from sending additional troops to Charleston harbor. In
pursuance of the scheme agreed upon by them in caucus, Trescott wrote a letter to Governor
Gist suggesting that the Governor should write a letter "assuring the President that if no
reënforcements were sent, there would be no attempt upon the forts before the meeting of the
convention, and that then commissioners would be sent to negotiate all the points of difference;
that their hands would be strengthened, the responsibility of provoking collision would be
taken from the State, and the President would probably be relieved from the necessity of pursuing
this policy." Governor Gist acted upon the suggestion and wrote, under date of November 29,
back to Trescott (giving him liberty to show the letter to the President):

  [Sidenote] Gist to Trescott, Nov. 29, 1860. Crawford, p. 31.

    Although South Carolina is determined to secede from the Federal
    Union very soon after her convention meets, yet the desire of her
    constituted authorities is, not to do anything that will bring on
    a collision before the ordinance of secession has been passed and
    notice has been given to the President of the fact; and not then,
    unless compelled to do so by the refusal of the President to
    recognize our right to secede, by attempting to interfere with
    our exports or imports, or by refusal to surrender the forts and
    arsenals in our limits. I have found great difficulty in
    restraining the people of Charleston from seizing the forts, and
    have only been able to restrain them by the assurance that no
    additional troops would be sent to the forts, or any munitions of
    war.... If President Buchanan takes a course different from the
    one indicated and sends on a reënforcement, the responsibility
    will rest on him of lighting the torch of discord, which will
    only be quenched in blood.

  [Sidenote] Trescott's Narrative, Crawford, pp. 34 (line 16) and 42
  (lines 13-16).

Mr. Trescott showed this letter to the President on the evening of Sunday, December 2, and
while his narrative does not mention any expression by Mr. Buchanan of either approval or dissent,
his subsequent acts show a tacit acquiescence in Governor Gist's propositions.

There immediately followed by the leaders in Charleston, and their agents and spokesmen in
Washington, the daily repetition of threats and complaints (thus originated by the latter),
which were continued for nearly three and a half months. The purpose was twofold: first, by
alternately exciting the fears and hopes of the Government to induce it to withhold reënforcement
as a prudential measure of magnanimity and conciliation; secondly, to make it a cloak to hide,
as far as might be, their own preparations for war. Had the Federal Government been in a condition
of normal health and vigor, the farce would not have been effective for even a single day;
but, with capital alarmed, with, parties divided into factions, with three traitors in the
Cabinet, and a timid and vacillating Executive, by successive, almost imperceptible, degrees,
the farce produced a policy and the policy led to an opening drama of civil war.

Leaving out of view anterior political doctrines and discussions, the first false step had
been taken by the Administration in its doctrine of non-coercion, announced in the message;
the second false step half logically resulting from the first, in its refusal on the first
day of December to send Major Anderson the reënforcements he so urgently demanded. The Charlestonians
clung to the concession with a tenacity which demonstrated their full appreciation of its value.
Immediately there began to flow in upon Mr. Buchanan and his advisers, on the one hand magnified
reports of the daily clamors of the Charleston mob, on the other hand encouraging intimations
from the Charleston authorities that they, while adhering to their political heresies and demands,
were yet averse to disorder and bloodshed, and to this end desired and invoked the utmost forbearance
of the Government. Put in truthful language, their request would have been, "Help us keep the
peace while we are preparing to break the law. Let the Government send no ships, men or supplies
to the forts, in order that we may without danger or collision build batteries to take them.
Armament by the Federal sovereignty is war, armament by State authority is peace." And it will
forever remain a marvel that a President of the United States consented to this certain process
of national suicide.

CHAPTER XXIV

MR. BUCHANAN'S TRUCE

  [Sidenote] 1860.

The concession yielded by Mr. Buchanan, instead of tending to conciliate the conspirators only
brought upon him additional demands. It so happened that the principal Federal ships of war
were absent from the harbors of the Atlantic coast on service in distant waters. But now, as
a piece of good fortune amid many untoward occurrences, the steam sloop-of-war Brooklyn, a
new and formidable vessel of twenty-five guns, which had been engaged in making preliminary
surveys in the Chiriqui Lagoon to test the practicability of one of the proposed interoceanic
ship canals, unexpectedly returned to the Norfolk navy yard on the 28th of November, less than
a week before the meeting of Congress. She had until recently been under the command of Captain
Farragut, afterwards famous in the war of the rebellion, and was, with trifling exceptions,
ready for sea.

In the Cabinet, where the feasibility of collecting the customs revenue at Charleston on shipboard
had already been discussed as a possible contingency, and especially where the forcible protection
of the public property had also received serious consideration, this sudden appearance of the
Brooklyn must have furnished a conclusive reason in favor of both these propositions. Be this
as it may, when the President affirmed these duties in his message, the conspirators realized
that he held the means of practical enforcement at instantaneous command. With a ship of war
ready at Norfolk, with troops at Fortress Monroe, might not a careless émeute at Charleston
bring the much-dreaded reënforcements to Moultrie, Sumter, and Pinckney, precipitate a dénouement,
and prematurely ruin all their well-concocted schemes? There was urgent need to prevent the
sailing of the steamer on such an errand.

  [Sidenote] Buchanan to Burnwell, Adams, and Orr, Dec. 31, 1860. W.R.
  Vol. I., p. 116.

On Saturday, December 8, four of the Representatives in Congress from South Carolina requested
an interview of President Buchanan, which he granted them, in which they rehearsed their well-studied
prediction of a collision at Charleston. One of their number has related the substance of their
address with graphic frankness:

  [Sidenote] Hon. Wm. Porcher Miles, Statement before the South
  Carolina Convention, "Annual Cyclopedia," 1861, pp. 649-50.

    "Mr. President, it is our solemn conviction that if you attempt
    to send a solitary soldier to these forts, the instant the
    intelligence reaches our people (and we shall take care that it
    does reach them, for we have sources of information in Washington
    so that no orders for troops can be issued without our getting
    information) these forts will be forcibly and immediately
    stormed.

    "We all assured him that if an attempt was made to transport
    reënforcements, our people would take these forts, and that we
    would go home and help them to do it; for it would be suicidal
    folly for us to allow the forts to be manned. And we further said
    to him that a bloody result would follow the sending of troops to
    those forts, and that we did not believe that the authorities of
    South Carolina would do anything prior to the meeting of this
    convention, and that we hoped and believed that nothing would be
    done after this body met until we had demanded of the general
    Government the recession of these forts."

Here was an avowal to the President himself, not only of treason at Charleston, but of conspiracy
in the Executive departments at Washington; a demand coupled with a menace; a proposal for
a ten days' truce supplemented by a declaration of intention to proceed to extremities after
its expiration. Instead of meeting these with a stern rebuke and dismissal, the President cowered
and yielded to their demand. The sanctity of the Constitution, the majesty of the law, the
power of the nation, the patriotism of the people, all faded from his bewildered vision; his
irresolute will shrank from his declared purpose to protect the public property and enforce
the revenue laws. He saw only the picture of strife and bloodshed which the glib tongues of
his persecutors conjured up, and failed to detect the theatric purpose for which it was employed.

  [Sidenote] Buchanan to Commissioners, Dec. 31, 1860. W.R. Vol. I.,
  p. 117. Though this was only
another concession, much like the first in outward semblance, it was
nevertheless in its vital essence a fatal hurt to the rapidly
shrinking Federal authority. The conspiracy had won the choice of
position; when the combat should come it was in the attitude necessary
to deal the first blow.

The main point secured, there was an exhibition of abundant diplomatic politeness between the
parties. The President suggested that "for prudential reasons" it would be best to put in writing
what they had said to him verbally. This they readily promised, and on Monday, the 10th, gave
him, duly signed by five of the South Carolina Representatives, this important paper:

  [Sidenote] W.R. Vol. I., p. 116.

    WASHINGTON, December 9, 1860.

  [Sidenote] Buchanan to Commissioners, Dec. 31, 1860. Ibid.

When President Buchanan came to look at the explicit language of this document, he shrank from
the definite programme to which it committed him. There followed mutual protestations that
the whole transaction was voluntary, informal, and in the nature of a mediation; that neither
party possessed any delegated authority or binding power. They were not frank enough to explain
to one another that the true object of each was delay--of the President, "that time might be
gained for reflection"; of the Members, that time might be gained for the unmolested meeting
of the convention, for passing the ordinance of secession, for further organizing public sentiment,
and pushing forward military preparations at Charleston.

The mask of official propriety worn over this pernicious intrigue, the disclaimers, the implications
and mental reservations of which it was made up--all became absurd in view of the results it
produced. The President, indeed, explains that it was no pledge or agreement.

While the conspirators were thus taking effectual steps to bind the future acts of the Executive
in respect to the forts in Charleston harbor, and to make sure that the rising insurrection
in South Carolina should not be crippled or destroyed by any surprise or sudden movement emanating
from Washington, they were not less watchful to counteract and prevent any possible hostile
movement against them on the part of Major Anderson and his handful of officers and troops
in Fort Moultrie, undertaken on his own discretion. Their boast of secret sources of information
in Washington, coupled with subsequent events, furnish presumptive evidence that Mr. Floyd,
Secretary of War, though yet openly opposing disunion, was already in their confidence and
councils, and was lending them such active coõperation as might be disguised or perhaps still
excused to his own conscience as tending to avert collision and bloodshed.

Shortly before, or about the time of the truce we have described, Secretary Floyd sent an officer
of the War Department to Fort Moultrie with special verbal instructions to Major Anderson,
which were duly communicated, and the substance of them reduced to writing and delivered to
that officer on the 11th of December, the day following the conclusion of the President's unofficial
truce at Washington. The importance of this document renders it worthy of reproduction in complete
form.

    D.C. BUELL, Assistant Adjutant-General.
    FORT MOULTRIE, S.C., December 11, 1860.

    This is in conformity to my instructions to Major Buell.

    JOHN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War.

  [Sidenote] Doubleday, "Forts Sumter and Moultrie," p. 51.

Upon mere superficial inspection these instructions disclosed only the then dominant anxiety
of the Administration to prevent collision. But if we remember that they were sent to Major
Anderson without the President's knowledge, and without the knowledge of General Scott,[1]
and especially if we keep in sight the state of public sentiment of both Charleston and Washington
and the paramount official influences which had taken definite shape in the President's truce,
we can easily read between the lines that they were most artfully contrived to lull suspicion
while effectually restraining Major Anderson from any act or movement which might check or
control the insurrectionary preparations. He must do nothing to provoke aggression; he must
take no hostile attitude without evident and imminent necessity; he must not move his troops
into Fort Sumter, unless it were attempted to attack or take possession of one of the forts
or such a design were tangibly manifested. Practically, when the attempt to seize the vacant
forts might come it would be too late to prevent it, and certainly too late to move his own
force into either of them. Practically, too, any serious design of that nature would never
be permitted to come to his knowledge. Supplement these literal negations and restrictions
by the unrecorded verbal explanations and comments said to have been made by Major Buell, by
his disapproval of the meager defensive preparations which had been made, such as his declaration
that a few loop-holes "would have a tendency to irritate the people," and we can readily imagine
how a faithful officer, whose reiterated calls for help had been refused, felt, that under
such instructions, such surroundings, and such neglect "his hands were tied," and that he and
his little command were a foredoomed sacrifice.[2]

---------- [1] "The President has listened to him [General Scott] with due friendliness and
respect, but the War Department has been little communicative. Up to this time he has not been
shown the written instructions of Major Anderson, nor been informed of the purport of those
more recently conveyed to Fort Moultrie verbally by Major Buell."--Gen. Scott (by G.W. Lay)
to Twiggs, Dec. 28, 1860. W.R. Vol. I., p. 580.

[2] In a Senate speech, January 10, 1861, "Globe," page 307, Jefferson Davis, commenting on
these orders, while admitting that they empowered Major Anderson to go from one post to another,
said, "Though his orders were not so designed, as I am assured."

CHAPTER XXV

THE RETIREMENT OF CASS

Thus far Mr. Buchanan's policy of conciliation through concession had brought him nothing but
disappointment, and whatever faint hope his loyal Cabinet advisers may have had at the outset
in its saving efficacy was by practical experiment utterly destroyed. The non-coercion doctrine
had been adopted as early as November 20, in the Attorney-General's opinion of that date. The
fact was rumored, not only in the political circles of the capital, but in the chief newspapers
of the country; and the three secession members of the Cabinet had doubtless communicated it
confidentially to all their prominent and influential confederates. Since that time South Carolina
had continued her preparation for secession with unremitting industry; Mississippi had authorized
a convention and appointed commissioners to visit all the slave-States and propagate disunion,
among them Mr. Thompson, Buchanan's Secretary of the Interior, who afterwards exercised this
insurrectionary function while yet remaining in the Cabinet; the North Carolina Legislature
had postponed the election of United States Senator; Florida had passed a convention bill;
Georgia had instituted legislative proceedings to bring about a conference of the Southern
States at Atlanta; both houses of the National Congress had rung with secession speeches, while
frequent caucuses of the conspirators took place at Washington.

  [Sidenote] Cobb to Buchanan, "Washington Constitution," Dec. 12,
  1860.

Mr. Buchanan's truce with the South Carolina Representatives had as little effect in arresting
the secession intrigues as his non-coercion doctrine officially announced in the annual message.
On the evening of the day (December 8)[1] on which he received the South Carolina pledge, the
Secretary of the Treasury, Howell Cobb, of Georgia, tendered his resignation, announcing in
the same letter his intention to embark in the active work of disunion. It had been generally
understood that the non-coercion theories of the message were adopted by the President in deference
to the wishes and under the influence of Cobb, Thompson, and Floyd, and undoubtedly they had
also been largely instrumental in bringing about the unofficial truce at Charleston. If, amid
all his fears, Mr. Buchanan retained any sensibility, he must have been profoundly shocked
at the cool dissimulation with which Mr. Cobb, everywhere recognized as a Cabinet officer of
great ability, had assisted in committing the Administration to these fatal doctrines and measures,
and then abandoned it in the moment of danger. "My withdrawal," he wrote to the President,
"has not been occasioned by anything you have said or done. Whilst differing from your message
upon some of its theoretical doctrines, as well as from the hope so earnestly expressed that
the Union can be preserved, there was no practical result likely to follow which required me
to retire from your Administration. That necessity is created by what I feel it my duty to
do; and the responsibility of the act, therefore, rests alone upon myself." Ignoring the fact
that the Treasury was prosperous and solvent when he took charge of it, and that at the moment
of his leaving it could not pay its drafts, Mr. Cobb, five days later, published a long and
inflammatory address to the people of Georgia, concluding with this exhortation: "I entertain
no doubt either of your right or duty to secede from the Union. Arouse, then, all your manhood
for the great work before you, and be prepared on that day to announce and maintain your independence
out of the Union, for you will never again have equality and justice in it."

  [Sidenote] G.T. Curtis, "Life of James Buchanan." Vol. II., p. 399.

The President had scarcely found a successor for Mr. Cobb when the head of his Cabinet, Lewis
Cass, Secretary of State, tendered his resignation also, and retired from the Administration.
Mr. Cass had held many offices of distinction, had attained high rank as a Democratic leader,
and had once been a Presidential candidate. His resignation was, therefore, an event of great
significance from a political point of view. The incident brings into bold relief the mental
reservations under which Buchanan's paradoxical theories had been concurred in by his Cabinet.
A private memorandum, in Mr. Buchanan's handwriting, commenting on the event, makes the following
emphatic statement: "His resignation was the more remarkable on account of the cause he assigned
for it. When my late message (of December, 1860) was read to the Cabinet before it was printed,
General Cass expressed his unreserved and hearty approbation of it, accompanied by every sign
of deep and sincere feeling. He had but one objection to it, and this was, that it was not
sufficiently strong against the power of Congress to make war upon a State for the purpose
of compelling her to remain in the Union; and the denial of this power was made more emphatic
and distinct upon his own suggestion."

  [Sidenote] See proceedings of convention in "Charleston Courier,"
  Dec., 1860.

But this position was probably qualified and counterbalanced in his mind by the President's
direct promise that he would collect the Federal revenue and protect the Federal property.
In the nature of things the execution of this policy must not only precede but exclude all
other theories and abstractions, and the Secretary of State probably waited in good faith to
see the President "execute the laws." Little by little, however, delay and concession rendered
this impossible. The collector at Charleston still nominally exercised his functions as a Federal
officer; but it was an open secret among the Charleston authorities, and one which, must also
by this time have become known to the Government at Washington, that he was only holding the
place in trust for the coming secession convention. As to protecting the Federal property,
the refusal to send Anderson troops, the President's truce, the gradual development of Mr.
Buchanan's irresolution and lack of courage, and finally Mr. Cobb's open defection must have
convinced Mr. Cass that, under existing determinations, orders, and influences, it was a hopeless
prospect.

  [Sidenote] Floyd's Richmond Speech, N.Y. "Herald," Jan. 17, 1861,
  p. 2.

The whole question seems to have been finally decided in a long and stormy Cabinet session
held on December 13. The events of the few preceding days had evidently shaken the President's
confidence in his own policy. He startled his dissembling and conspiring Secretary of War with
the sudden questions, "Mr. Floyd, are you going to send recruits to Charleston to strengthen
the forts?" "Don't you intend to strengthen the forts at Charleston?" The apparent change of
policy alarmed the Secretary, but he replied promptly that he did not. "Mr. Floyd," continued
Mr. Buchanan, "I would rather be in the bottom of the Potomac to-morrow than that these forts
in Charleston should fall into the hands of those who intend to take them. It will destroy
me, sir, and, Mr. Floyd, if that thing occurs it will cover your name with an infamy that all
time can never efface, because it is in vain that you will attempt to show that you have not
some complicity in handing over those forts to those who take them."

The wily Secretary replied, "I will risk my reputation, I will trust my life that the forts
are safe under the declarations of the gentlemen of Charleston." "That is all very well," replied
the President, "but does that secure the forts?" "No, sir; but it is a guaranty that I am in
earnest," said Floyd. "I am not satisfied," said the President.

Thereupon the Secretary made the never-failing appeal to the fears and timidity of Mr. Buchanan.
He has himself reported the language he used: "I am sorry for it," said he; "you are President,
it is for you to order. You have the right to order and I will consider your orders when made.
But I would be recreant to you if I did not tell you that this policy of garrisoning the forts
will lead to certain conflicts; it is the inauguration of civil war, and the beginning of the
effusion of blood. If it is a question of property, why not put an ordnance sergeant into them--a
man who wears worsted epaulets on his shoulders and stripes down his pantaloons--as the representative
of the property of the United States. That will be enough to secure the forts. If it is a question
of property, he represents it,[2] and let us wait until the issue is made by South Carolina.
She will go out of the Union and send her commissioners here. Up to that point the action is
insignificant. Action after this demands the attention of the great council of the nation.
Let us submit the question to Congress--it is for Congress to deal with the matter."

This crafty appeal to the President's hesitating inclinations, and in accord with his policy
hitherto pursued, was seconded by the active persuasions of the leading conspirators of Congress
whom Floyd promptly called to his assistance. "I called for help from that bright Saladin of
the South, Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi--and I said, 'Come to my rescue; the battle is a
little more than my weak heart can support. Come to me;' and he came. Then came that old jovial-looking,
noble-hearted representative from Virginia, James M. Mason. Here came that anomaly of modern
times, the youthful Nestor, here came Hunter.... From the north, the south, the east, and the
west there came up the patriots of the country, the champions of constitutional liberty, and
they talked with the President of the United States, and they quieted his fears and assured
him in the line of duty. They said, 'Let there be no force'; and the President said to me,
'I am content with your policy'; and then it was that we determined that we would send no more
troops to the harbor in Charleston."

Strip this statement of its oratorical exaggeration, and the reader can nevertheless see, in
the light of after occurrences, a vivid and truthful picture of a conspiring cabal, stooping
to arts and devices difficult to distinguish from direct personal treachery, flattering, threatening,
and coaxing by turns, and finally lulling the fears of the President, through his vain hope
that they would help him tide over a magnified danger, and shift upon Congress a responsibility
he had not the courage to meet.

Mr. Cass, however, could no longer be quieted. Through all the rhetoric, sophistry, and bluster
of the conspirators he saw the diminishing resources of the Government and the rising power
of the insurrection. With a last bold effort to rouse the President from his lethargy, he demanded,
in the Cabinet meeting of the 13th, that the forts should be strengthened. But he was powerless
to break the spell. Says Floyd: "The President said to him in reply, with a beautiful countenance
and with a heroic decision that I shall never forget, in the council chamber, 'I have considered
this question. I am sorry to differ from the Secretary of State; I have made up my mind. The
interests of the country do not demand a reënforcement of the forces in Charleston. I cannot
do it--and I take the responsibility of it upon myself.'"

The letters which were exchanged between the President and his premier set out the differences
between them with the same distinctness. Mr. Cass, after premising that he concurred with the
general principles laid down in the message, says:

  [Sidenote] Cass to Buchanan, Dec. 12, 1860. Curtis, "Life of Buchanan,"
  Vol. II., p. 397.

    In some points which I deem of vital importance, it has been my
    misfortune to differ from you. It has been my decided opinion,
    which for some time past I have urged at various meetings of the
    Cabinet, that additional troops should be sent to reënforce the
    forts in the harbor of Charleston, with a view to their better
    defense, should they be attacked, and that an armed vessel should
    likewise be ordered there, to aid, if necessary, in the defense,
    and also, should it be required, in the collection of the
    revenue; and it is yet my opinion that these measures should be
    adopted without the least delay. I have likewise urged the
    expediency of immediately removing the custom-house at Charleston
    to one of the forts in the port, and of making arrangements for
    the collection of the duties there, by having a collector and
    other officers ready to act when necessary, so that when the
    office may become vacant the proper authority may be there to
    collect the duties on the part of the United States. I continue
    to think that these arrangements should be immediately made.
    While the right and the responsibility of deciding belong to you,
    it is very desirable that at this perilous juncture there should
    be, as far as possible, unanimity in your councils, with a view
    to safe and efficient action.

To this statement the President replied:

  [Sidenote] Buchanan to Cass, Dec. 15, 1860. Curtis, "Life of Buchanan,"
  Vol. II, p. 398.

    The question on which we unfortunately differ is that of ordering
    a detachment of the army and navy to Charleston, and is correctly
    stated in your letter of resignation. I do not intend to argue
    this question. Suffice it to say that your remarks upon the
    subject were heard by myself and the Cabinet, with all the
    respect due to your high position, your long experience, and your
    unblemished character; but they failed to convince us of the
    necessity and propriety, under existing circumstances, of
    adopting such a measure. The Secretaries of War and of the Navy,
    through, whom the orders must have issued to reenforce the forts,
    did not concur in your views; and whilst the whole responsibility
    for the refusal rested upon myself, they were the members of the
    Cabinet more directly interested. You may have judged correctly
    on this important question, and your opinion is entitled to grave
    consideration; but under my convictions of duty, and believing as
    I do that no present necessity exists for a resort to force for
    the protection of the public property, it was impossible for me
    to have risked a collision of arms in the harbor of Charleston,
    and thereby defeated the reasonable hope which I cherish of the
    final triumph, of the Constitution and of the Union.

  [Sidenote] Holt, conversation with J.G.N., 1874.

The other Union members of the Cabinet received the rumor of Mr. Cass's resignation with gloomy
apprehensions. Postmaster-General Holt, with whom by reason of their kindred opinions he had
been on intimate terms, hastened to him to learn whether it were indeed true and whether his
determination were irrevocable. Cass confirmed the report, saying that representing the Northern
and loyal constituency which he did, he could no longer without dishonor to himself and to
them remain in such treasonable surroundings. Holt endeavored to persuade him that under the
circumstances it was all the more necessary that the loyal members of the Cabinet should remain
at their posts, in order to prevent the country's passing into the hands of the secessionists
by mere default. But Cass replied, No; that the public feeling and sentiment of his section
would not tolerate such a policy on his part. "For you," he said, "coming from a border State,
where a modified, perhaps a divided, public sentiment exists, that is not only a possible course,
but it is a true one; it is your duty to remain, to sustain the Executive and counteract the
plots of the traitors. But my duty is otherwise; I must adhere to my resignation."

In this honorable close of a long public career, General Cass gave evidence of the spirit which
was to actuate many patriotic Democrats when the final ordeal came. It was to be regretted
that he had not taken issue with his chief when his paradoxical message was read to the Cabinet,
but much is to be allowed to the inertness of a man in his seventy-ninth year. Life-long placeman
and unflinching partisan that he was, there was still so much of patriotic conscience in him
that he could not stand by and see premeditated dishonor done to the flag he had followed in
his youth and as Jackson's Secretary of War upheld in his maturer years. If Mr. Buchanan had
been capable of amendment, he might have learned a salutary lesson from the manner in which
this veteran politician ended his half century of public service.

---------- [1] Cobb to Buchanan, "Washington Constitution," Dec. 12, 1860. The President's
reply says: "I have received your communication of Saturday evening, resigning," etc.

[2] Jefferson Davis in his "Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government," Vol.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE SENATE COMMITTEE OF THIRTEEN

The President's message provoked immediate and heated controversy in Congress. In the Senate
the battle was begun by the radical secessionists, who at once avowed their main plans and
purposes. Mr. Clingman, of North Carolina, opening the debate, predicted that the same political
organization which had elected Lincoln must soon control the entire Government, and being guided
by a sentiment hostile to the Southern States would change the whole character of the Government
without abolishing its forms. A number of States would secede within the next sixty days.

Mr. Brown, of Mississippi, said the accumulating wrongs of years had finally culminated in
the triumph of principles to which they could not and would not submit. All they asked was
to be allowed to depart in peace.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 5 1860, p. 11.

Mr. Iverson, of Georgia, invoking not only secession, but revolution and assassination, announced
specifically the hopes of the conspirators. "I am satisfied that South Carolina will resolve
herself into a separate sovereign and independent State before the Ides of January; that Florida
and Mississippi, whose conventions are soon to meet, will follow the example of South Carolina,
and that Alabama ... will go out of the Union on the 7th of January. Then the Georgia Convention
follows on the 16th of that month; and if these other surrounding sisters shall take the step,
Georgia will not be behind ... I speak what I believe on this floor, that before the 4th of
March five of the Southern States at least will have declared their independence; and I am
satisfied that three others of the Cotton States will follow as soon as the action of the people
can be had. Arkansas, whose Legislature is now in session, will in all probability call a convention
at an early day. Louisiana will follow. We intend, Mr. President, to go out peaceably if we
can, forcibly if we must."

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 5, 1860, p. 14.

Senator Wigfall, of Texas, took a high revolutionary attitude. "We simply say that a man who
is distasteful to us has been elected and we choose to consider that as a sufficient ground
for leaving the Union." He said he should "introduce a resolution at an early moment to ascertain
what are the orders that have gone from the War Department to the officers in command of those
forts" at Charleston. If the people of South Carolina believed that this Government would hold
those forts, and collect the revenues from them, after they had ceased to be one of the States
of this Union, his judgment was that the moment they became satisfied of that fact they would
take the forts, and blood would then begin to flow.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 10, 1860, p. 35.

Mr. Mason, of Virginia, said he looked upon the evil as a war of sentiment and opinion by one
form of society against another form of society. The remedy rested in the political society
and State councils of the several States and not in Congress. His State and a great many others
of the slaveholding States were going into convention with a view to take up the subject for
themselves, and as separate sovereign communities to determine what was best for their safety.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 5, 1860, p. 12.

Senator Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, was more reticent and politic, though no less positive
and significant in his brief expressions. As a Senator of the United States he said he was
there to perform his functions as such; that before a declaration of war was made against the
State of which he was a citizen he expected to be out of the Chamber; that when that declaration
was made his State would be found ready and quite willing to meet it.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 5, 1860, p. 9.

The Republican Senators maintained for the greater part a discreet silence. To exult in their
triumph would be undignified; to hasten forward officiously with offers of pacification or
submission, and barter away the substantial fruits of their victory, would not only make them
appear pusillanimous in the eyes of their own party, but bring down upon them the increased
contempt of their assailants. There remained therefore nothing but silence and the feeble hope
that this first fury of the disunion onset might spend itself in angry words, and be followed
by calmer counsels. Nevertheless, it was difficult to keep entirely still under the irritating
provocation. On the third day of the session, Senator Hale, of New Hampshire, replied to both
the President's message and Clingman's speech. Mr. Hale thought "this state of affairs looks
to one of two things; it looks to absolute submission, not on the part of our Southern friends
and the Southern States but of the North--to the abandonment of their position; it looks to
a surrender of that popular sentiment which has been uttered through the constituted forms
of the ballot-box; or it looks to open war. We need not shut our eyes to the fact. It means
war, and it means nothing else; and the State which has put herself in the attitude of secession
so looks upon it.... If it is preannounced and determined that the voice of the majority expressed
through the regular and constituted forms of the Constitution will not be submitted to, then,
sir, this is not a Union of equals; it is a Union of a dictatorial oligarchy on the one side,
and a herd of slaves and cowards on the other. That is it, sir; nothing more, nothing less."

While the Southern Democratic party and the Republican party thus drifted into defiant attitudes
the other two parties to the late Presidential contest naturally fell into the rôle of peacemakers.
In this work they were somewhat embarrassed by their party record, for they had joined loudly
in the current charge of "abolitionism" against the people of the North, and especially against
the Republican party. Nevertheless, they not only came forward to tender the olive branch,
and to deprecate and rebuke the threats and extreme measures of the disunionists, but even
went so far as to deny and disapprove the staple complaints of the conspirators.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 4, 1860, p. 5.

It must be remembered to the lasting honor of Senator Crittenden that at the very outset of
the discussion he repudiated the absurd theory of noncoercion. "I do not agree that there is
no power in the President to preserve the Union; I will say that now. If we have a Union at
all, and if, as the President thinks, there is no right to secede on the part of any State
(and I agree with him in that), I think there is a right to employ our power to preserve the
Union."

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 11, 1860, pp. 51, 52.

Senator Pugh, of Ohio, saying that he lived on the border of the slave-holding and non-slave-holding
States, contended that the fugitive-slave law was executed every day, or nearly every day.
It was in constant operation. He would venture to say that the slave-States had not lost $100,000
worth of slave property since they had been in the Union, through negligence or refusal to
execute it.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 11, 1860, p. 52.

Senator Douglas, of Illinois, said he supposed the fugitive-slave law was enforced with quite
as much fidelity as that in regard to the African slave trade or the laws on many other subjects.
"It so happens that there is the greatest excitement upon this question just in proportion
as you recede from the line between the free and the slave-States.... If you go North, up into
Vermont where they scarcely ever see a slave and would not know how he looked, they are disturbed
by the wrongs of the poor slave just in proportion as they are ignorant of the South. When
you get down South, into Georgia and Alabama, where they never lose any slaves, they are disturbed
by the outrages and losses under the non-fulfillment of the fugitive-slave law just in proportion
as they have no interest in it, and do not know what they are talking about."

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 10, 1860, p. 24.

Meanwhile, Senator Powell, of Kentucky, having given notice on the 5th, had on the 6th of December
introduced a resolution to raise a special committee (afterwards known as the Senate Committee
of Thirteen) to concert measures of compromise or pacification, either through legislation
or Constitutional amendments. He said, however, he did not believe any legislation would be
a remedy. Unequivocal constitutional guarantees upon the points indicated in the resolution
under consideration were in his judgment the only remedies that would reach and eradicate the
disease, give permanent security, and restore fraternal feeling between the people, North and
South, and save the Union from speedy dissolution. "Let us never despair of the republic, but
go to work promptly and so amend the Constitution as to give certain and full guarantees to
the rights of every citizen, in every State and Territory of the Union."

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 10, 1860, p. 25.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 28.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 34.

The Republicans on this resolution generally offered only verbal criticisms or expressed their
full approbation of its provisions. Senator King, of New York, offering an amendment, explained
that while we hear occasionally of a mob destroying property, we also hear occasionally of
a mob which assails an individual. He thought the security of person as important as that of
property, and would therefore extend the inquiry to all these objects, if made at all. Senator
Collamer, of Vermont, suggested striking out all about the condition of the country and the
rights of property, and simply referring that part of the message which relates to the state
of the Union to a special committee. Senator Foster, of Connecticut, said if there was a disposition
here to promote the peace and harmony of the country, the resolution was a most appropriate
one under which to make the effort. Senator Hale, of New Hampshire, said he was willing to
meet any and everybody and say that if there can be pointed out anything in which the State
that he represented had come short of her whole constitutional duty in letter and in spirit,
she will do what she never did in the face of an enemy, and that is take a backward step. She
was ready to perform her whole constitutional duty, and to stand there.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 1860, pp. 25, 26.

Senator Green, of Missouri, while he joined in the general cry of Northern anti-slavery aggression
and neglect of constitutional obligations, deemed it his duty to assist in making a united
effort to save the Union. If he believed the present state of public sentiment of the North
was to be enduring, he would say it is folly to talk about patching up the Union; but he looked
forward to a reaction of public sentiment. Amendments to the Constitution, legal enactments,
or repeal of personal liberty laws are not worth a straw unless the popular sentiment or the
strong arm of the Government goes with them. He proposed to employ adequate physical force
to maintain existing constitutional rights. He did not want any additional constitutional rights.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., pp. 28-30.

Senator Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, denounced this proposition as a quack nostrum. Establishing
military posts along the borders of States conferred a power upon this Federal Government,
which it does not now possess, to coerce a State; it was providing, under the name of Union,
to carry on war against States. From the history and nature of our government no power of coercion
exists in it.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 33.

Senator Brown, also of Mississippi, was no less emphatic in his condemnation of the scheme.
He said, that a Southern Senator representing a State as much exposed as Missouri should deliberately,
in times like these, propose to arm the Federal Government for the purpose of protecting the
frontier, to establish military posts all along the line, struck him with astonishment. He
saw in this proposition the germ of a military despotism. He did not know what was to become
of these armies, or what was to be done with these military posts. He feared in the hands of
the enemy they might be turned against the South; they would hardly ever be turned against
the North.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 10, 1860, pp. 30, 31.

Senator Green, in his reply, justly exposed the whole animus and thinly concealed import of
these rough criticisms, by retorting that, to call that a military despotism amounts to just
this: we are going out of the Union, right or wrong, and we will misrepresent every proposition
made to save the Union. Who has fought the battles of the South for the last twenty-five years,
and borne the brunt of the difficulty upon the border? Missouri, Kentucky, Virginia, and Maryland,
while Mississippi and Louisiana have been secure; and while you have lost but one boxed-up
negro, sent on board a vessel, that I remember, we have lost thousands and thousands. He knew
it was unpopular in some sections to say a word for the Union. He hoped that feeling would
react. Means to enforce and carry out the Constitution ought not to be ridiculed by calling
it a quack remedy.

It is more likely that we may find in the response of Senator Iverson, of Georgia, the true
reason which actuated the Cotton-State leaders in driving their people into revolution, regardless
of the remonstrances of the border States.

    Sir, the border slave-States of this Union complain of the Cotton
    States for the movement which is now in progress. They say that we
    have no right to take them out of the Union against their will. I
    want to know what right they have to keep us in the Union against
    our will. If we want to go out let us go. If they want to stay let
    them stay. They are sovereign and independent States, and have a
    right to decide these questions for themselves. For one, I shall
    not complain when, where, or how they go. I am satisfied, however,
    that they will go, when the time comes for them to decide. But,
    sir, they complain of us that we make so much noise and confusion
    on the subject of fugitive slaves, when we are not affected by the
    vitiated public sentiment of the Northern States. They say that we
    do not lose fugitive slaves; but they suffer the burden. We heard
    that yesterday. I know that we do not suffer in this respect; it
    is not the want of good faith in the Northern people, so far as
    the reclamation of fugitive slaves is concerned, that is causing
    the Southern States around the Gulf of Mexico and the Southern
    Atlantic coast to move in this great revolution now progressing.
    Sir, we look infinitely beyond this petty loss of a few negroes.
    We know what is coming in this Union. It is universal emancipation
    and the turning loose upon society in the Southern States of the
    mass of corruption which will be made by emancipation. We intend
    to avoid it if we can. These border States can get along without
    slavery. Their soil and climate are appropriate to white labor;
    they can live and nourish without African slavery; but the Cotton
    States cannot. We are obliged to have African slavery to cultivate
    our cotton, our rice, and our sugar fields. African slavery is
    essential not only to our prosperity, but to our existence as a
    people....

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 11, 1860, pp. 49-51.

    I understand one of the motives which influence the tardy action
    of these two States [Virginia and Maryland], They are a little
    afraid of the opening of the African slave trade, and the
    cheapening of negroes. Now, sir, while I state here that I am
    opposed to the opening of the African slave-trade, because our
    negroes will increase fast enough, God knows, for our interest and
    protection and security; and while I believe that the great masses
    of the Southern people are opposed to it, yet I will not stand
    security that if the Cotton States alone form a confederacy they
    will not open the African slave-trade; and then what will become
    of the great monopoly of the negro market which Virginia and
    Maryland and North Carolina now possess?

The disunion Senators, while indulging in the violent and uncompromising language already quoted,
had nevertheless here and there interjected phrases indicating a willingness to come to an
understanding and adjustment, but their object in this seemed to be twofold: for a few days
longer it would serve as a partial screen to their more active conspiracy, and in the possible
event (which they evidently did not expect) of a complete surrender and abdication of their
political victory by the Republican party, it would leave them in the advantageous condition
of accepting triumph as a fruit of compromise.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 4, 1860, p. 4.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 10, 1860, p. 29.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 34.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 12, 1860, p. 72.

Thus, Senator Clingman said, "If gentlemen on the other side have anything to propose of a
decisive and satisfactory character, I have no doubt the section from which I come would be
willing to hear it." Senator Brown said he never intimated they would not listen to appeals;
he never said this case could not be adjusted; but he said there was no disposition on the
Republican side to do it. Senator Wigfall said, "What is the use of our discussing on this
side of the Chamber what we would be satisfied with when nothing has been offered us!"

It requires a minute search to find these scattered words of moderation in the torrent of defiance
which characterized the speeches of the extreme disunionists during the first ten days of the
session of Congress, and indications were not lacking that even these were wholly insincere,
and meant only to mislead their opponents and the public. Strong proof of this is found in
the careful speech of Senator Jefferson Davis, in which he lays down the issue without reserve,
at the same time dealing in such vague and intangible complaints as showed intention and desire
to remain unanswered and unsatisfied..

    Then where is the remedy, the question may be asked.

To all that had so far been said, Senator Wade, of Ohio, made, on the 17th day of December,
a frank and direct as well as strong and eloquent reply, which was at once generally accepted
by the Republican party of the Senate and the country as their well-considered and unalterable
position on the crisis. Said he:

    I have already said that these gentlemen who make these complaints
    have for a long series of years had this Government in their own
    keeping. They belong to the dominant majority.... Therefore, if
    there is anything in the legislation of the Federal Government
    that is not right, you and not we are responsible for it.... You
    have had the legislative power of the country, and you have had
    the executive of the country, as I have said already. You own the
    Cabinet, you own the Senate, and I may add, you own the President
    of the United States, as much as you own the servant upon your own
    plantation. I cannot see then very clearly why it is that Southern
    men can rise here and complain of the action of this
    Government.... Are we the setters forth of any new doctrines under
    the Constitution of the United States? I tell you nay. There is no
    principle held to-day by this great Republican party that has not
    had the sanction of your Government in every department for more
    than seventy years. You have changed your opinions. We stand where
    we used to stand, That is the only difference.... Sir, we stand
    where Washington stood, where Jefferson stood, where Madison
    stood, where Monroe stood. We stand where Adams and Jackson and
    even Polk stood. That revered statesman, Henry Clay, of blessed
    memory, with his dying breath asserted the doctrine that we hold
    to-day.... As to compromises, I had supposed that we were all
    agreed that the day of compromises was at an end. The most solemn
    compromises we have ever made have been violated without a
    whereas. Since I have had a seat in this body, one of
    considerable antiquity, that had stood for more than thirty years,
    was swept away from your statute books.... We nominated our
    candidates for President and Vice-President, and you did the same
    for yourselves. The issue was made up and we went to the people
    upon it; ... and we beat you upon the plainest and most palpable
    issue that ever was presented to the American people, and one that
    they understood the best. There is no mistaking it; and now when
    we come to the capitol, I tell you that our President and our
    Vice-President must be inaugurated and administer the government
    as all their predecessors have done. Sir, it would be humiliating
    and dishonorable to us if we were to listen to a compromise [only]
    by which he who has the verdict of the people in his pocket should
    make his way to the Presidential chair. When it comes to that you
    have no government.... If a State secedes, although we will not
    make war upon her, we cannot recognize her right to be out of the
    Union, and she is not out until she gains the consent of the Union
    itself; and the chief magistrate of the nation, be he who he may,
    will find under the Constitution of the United States that it is
    his sworn duty to execute the law in every part and parcel of this
    Government; that he cannot be released from that obligation....
    Therefore, it will be incumbent on the chief magistrate to proceed
    to collect the revenue of ships entering their ports precisely in
    the same way and to the same extent that he does now in every
    other State of the Union. We cannot release him from that
    obligation. The Constitution in thunder tones demands that he
    shall do it alike in the ports of every State. What follows? Why,
    sir, if he shuts up the ports of entry so that a ship cannot
    discharge her cargo there, or get papers for another voyage, then
    ships will cease to trade; or, if he undertakes to blockade her,
    and thus collect it, she has not gained her independence by
    secession. What must she do? If she is contented to live in this
    equivocal state, all would be well perhaps; but she could not live
    there. No people in the world could live in that condition. What
    will they do? They must take the initiative and declare war upon
    the United States; and the moment that they levy war, force must
    be met by force; and they must, therefore, hew out their
    independence by violence and war. There is no other way under the
    Constitution, that I know of, whereby a chief magistrate of any
    politics could be released from this duty. If this State, though
    seceding, should declare war against the United States, I do not
    suppose there is a lawyer in this body but what would say that the
    act of levying war is treason against the United States. That is
    where it results. We might just as well look the matter right in
    the face....

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 17, 1860, pp. 100-104.

    I say, sir, I stand by the Union of these States. Washington and
    his compatriots fought for that good old flag. It shall never be
    hauled down, but shall be the glory of the Government to which I
    belong, as long as my life shall continue.... It is my inheritance.
    It was my protector in infancy, and the pride and glory of my riper
    years; and although it may be assailed by traitors on every side,
    by the grace of God, under its shadow I will die.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 20, 1860, p. 158.

The Senate Committee of Thirteen was duly appointed on December 20 as follows: Lazarus W. Powell
and John J. Crittenden, of Kentucky; R.M.T. Hunter, of Virginia; Wm. H. Seward, of New York;
Robert Toombs, of Georgia; Stephen A. Douglas, of Illinois; Jacob Collamer, of Vermont; Jefferson
Davis, of Mississippi; Benjamin F. Wade, of Ohio; William Bigler, of Pennsylvania; Henry M.
Rice, of Minnesota; James E. Doolittle, of Wisconsin, and James W. Grimes, of Iowa.

It was a strong and representative committee, chosen from the four great political parties
to the late Presidential election, and embracing recognized leaders in each, We shall see in
a future chapter how this eminent committee failed to report a compromise, which was the object
of its appointment. But compromise was impossible, because the conspiracy had resolved upon
disunion, as already announced in the proclamation of a Southern Confederacy, signed and published
a week before by Jefferson Davis and others.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE HOUSE COMMITTEE OF THIRTY-THREE

  [Sidenote] Compare Boteler's statement of origin of his resolution,
  "Globe," Jan. 10, 1861, p. 316.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 4, 1860, p. 6.

While this discussion was going on in the Senate, very similar proceedings were taking place
in the House of Representatives, except that declarations of revolutionary purpose were generally
of a more practical and decisive character. The President's message had no sooner been received
and read, and the usual formal motion made to refer and print, than the friends of compromise,
representing here, as in the Senate, the substantial sentiment of the border slave-States,
made a sincere effort to take control and bring about the peaceable arrangement and adjustment
of what they assumed to be the extreme differences between the South and the North. Mr. Boteler,
of Virginia, seizing the momentary leadership, moved to amend by referring so much of the message
"as relates to the present perilous condition of the country" to a special committee of one
from each State. The Union being at that time composed of thirty-three States, this committee
became known as the Committee of Thirty-three. Several other amendments were offered but objected
to, and the previous question having been ordered, the amendment was agreed to and the committee
raised by a vote of 145 yeas to 38 nays; the negative vote coming, in the main, from the more
pronounced anti-slavery men.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 4, 1860, p. 7.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 4, 1860. p. 7.

Though this was the first roll-call of the session, the disunion conspirators, one after another,
made haste to declare the treasonable attitude of their States. Pending the vote, Mr. Singleton
declined recording his name for the reason that Mississippi had called a convention to consider
this subject. He was not sent here for the purpose of making any compromise or to patch up
existing difficulties. Mr. Jones, of Georgia, said he did not vote on this question because
his State, like Mississippi, had called a convention to decide all these questions of Federal
relations. Mr. Hawkins, of Florida, said his people had resolved to determine, in convention
in their sovereign capacity, the time, place, and manner of redress. It was not for him to
take any action on the subject. His State was opposed to all and every compromise. The day
of compromise was past. Mr. Clopton, of Alabama, declined voting because the State of Alabama
is proceeding to consider in a convention what action is required to maintain her rights, honor,
and safety. Believing that a State has the right to secede, and that the only remedy for present
evils is secession, he would not hold out any delusive hope or sanction any temporizing policy.
Mr. Miles, of South Carolina, said "the South Carolina delegation have not voted on this question
because they conceive they have no interest in it. We consider our State as already withdrawn
from the confederacy in everything except form." Mr. Pugh, of Alabama, said: "As my State of
Alabama intends following South Carolina out of the Union by the 10th of January next, I pay
no attention to any action taken in this body."

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 10, 1860, p. 36, 37.

These proceedings occurred on the second day of the session, December 4; two days later the
Speaker announced the committee, placing at the head, as chairman, Thomas Corwin, of Ohio,
and appointing such members from the different States as to make it of marked influence and
ability; the disunion faction being distinctly recognized by several extreme representatives.
The names were announced on Thursday, December 6;[1] and at the close of the day's session
the House adjourned to the following Monday, the 10th, on which day the general discussion
was fairly launched on the request of Mr. Hawkins, of Florida, to be excused from serving on
the committee. He said he had asked the opinions of many Southern Members, and, with one or
two exceptions, they most cordially agreed with the course he had taken. To serve on the committee
would place him in a false position. Florida had taken the initiative; her Legislature had
ordered an election to choose members to a convention to be convened on the 3d day of January,
1861. The committee was a Trojan horse to gain time and demoralize the South; he regretted
that it emanated from a Virginia Representative. He would tell the North that Mississippi,
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina were certain to secede from the Union within
a short period. Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas were certain to follow within the ensuing six
months.

Three Democratic Representatives responded to this outburst, the Republican members of the
House, as in the Senate, remaining discreetly silent. These Democratic speakers alleged an
unfair composition of the committee, and joined in denouncing the Republican party. But upon
the vital and practical question of disunion their utterances were widely divergent. As the
name of each of them will assume a degree of historical prominence in the further development
of the rebellion, short quotations from their remarks made at that early period will be read
with interest. Daniel E. Sickles, of New York, said:

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 10, 1860, pp. 40, 41.

    The city of New York will cling to the Union to the last; while
    she will look upon the last hour of its existence as we would upon
    the setting sun if we were never to see it more, yet when the call
    for force comes--let it come when it may--no man will ever pass
    the boundaries of the city of New York for the purpose of waging
    war against any State of this Union which, through its constituted
    authorities and sustained by the voice of its people, solemnly
    declares its rights, its interests, and its honor demand that it
    should seek safety in a separate existence.... The city of New
    York is now a subjugated dependency of a fanatical and puritanical
    State government that never thinks of the city except to send its
    tax-gatherers among us or to impose upon us hateful officials,
    alien to our interests and sympathies, to eat up the substance of
    the people by their legalized extortions.... Nothing has prevented
    the city of New York from asserting her right to govern herself,
    except that provision of the Federal Constitution which prohibits
    a State from being divided without its own consent.... When that
    restraint shall no longer exist, when the obligation of those
    constitutional provisions, which forbid the division of a State
    without its own consent, shall be suspended, then I tell you that
    imperial city will throw off the odious government to which she
    now yields a reluctant allegiance; she will repel the hateful
    cabal at Albany, which has so long abused its power over her, and
    with her own flag sustained by the courage and devotion of her own
    gallant sons, she will, as a free city, open wide her gates to the
    civilization and commerce of the world.

Doubtless the secessionists drew hopeful auguries and fresh inspiration from this and other
visionary talk frequent amid the unsteady political thought of that day. But, if so, it would
have been wiser to ponder deeply the significance of the following utterances coming from a
different quarter, and representing a more persistent influence, a more extended geographical
area, and a greater numerical force. Clement L. Vallandigham, of Ohio, said:

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 10, 1860, p. 38.

    I speak now as a Western man; and I thank the gentleman from
    Florida heartily for the kindly sentiments towards that great West
    to which he has given utterance. Most cordially I reciprocate
    them, one and all. Sir, we of the North-west have a deeper
    interest in the preservation of this Government in its present
    form than any other section of the Union. Hemmed in, isolated, cut
    off from the seaboard upon every side; a thousand miles and more
    from the mouth of the Mississippi, the free navigation of which
    under the law of nations we demand and will have at every cost;
    with nothing else but our other great inland seas, the lakes, and
    their outlet, too, through a foreign country--what is to be our
    destiny? Sir, we have fifteen hundred miles of Southern frontier,
    and but a little narrow strip of eighty miles, or less, from
    Virginia to Lake Erie bounding us upon the East. Ohio is the
    isthmus that connects the South with the British possessions, and
    the East with the West. The Rocky Mountains separate us from the
    Pacific. Where is to be our outlet! What are we to do when you
    shall have broken up and destroyed this government? We are seven
    States now, with fourteen Senators and fifty-one Representatives,
    and a population of nine millions. We have an empire equal in area
    to the third of all Europe, and we do not mean to be a dependency
    or province either of the East or of the South; nor yet an
    inferior or secondary power upon this continent; and if we cannot
    secure a maritime boundary upon other terms, we will cleave our
    way to the seacoast with the sword. A nation of warriors we may
    be; a tribe of shepherds never.

No less outspoken were the similar declarations of John A. McClernand, of Illinois, who said
the question of secession disclosed to his vision a boundless sea of horrors.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 10, 1860, p. 39.

    Peaceable secession, in my judgment, is a fatal, a deadly
    illusion.... If I am asked, Why so? I retort the question. How can
    it be otherwise? How are questions of public debt, public archives,
    public lands, and other public property, and, above all, the
    questions of boundary to be settled? Will it be replied that, while
    we are mutually unwilling now to yield anything, we will be
    mutually willing, after awhile, to concede everything? That, while
    we mutually refuse to concede anything now for the sake of national
    unity, we will be mutually ready to concede everything by and by
    for the sake of national duality? Who believes this? What, too,
    would be the fate of the youthful but giant Northwest in the event
    of a separation of the slave-holding from the non-slave-holding
    States? Cut off from the main Mississippi and the Gulf of Mexico on
    one hand, or from the eastern Atlantic ports on the other, she
    would gradually sink into a pastoral state, and to a standard of
    national inferiority. This the hardy and adventurous millions of
    the North-west would be unwilling to consent to. This they would
    not do. Rather would they, to the last man, perish upon the
    battlefield. No power on earth could restrain them from freely and
    unconditionally communicating with the Gulf and the great mart of
    New York.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 10, 1860, p. 59.

No further noteworthy discussion occurred for a time, except the declaration of Mr. Cobb, of
Alabama, that if anything were done to save his State it must be done immediately. The election
for delegates to the convention would take place on the 24th of that month, and the convention
would meet on the 7th of the next month. His State would not remain in this Confederacy longer
than the 15th of January unless something were done.

  [Sidenote] Ibid.

The House refused to excuse the several objecting members from serving on the committee; and
the temper in which they proceeded to the discharge of their duty is perhaps best illustrated
by the remarks of Representative Reuben Davis, of Mississippi. He said he could "but regard
this committee as a tub thrown out to the whale, to amuse only, until the 4th of March next,
and thus arrest the present noble and manly movements of the Southern States to provide by
that day for their security and safety out of the Union. With these views I take my place on
the committee for the purpose of preventing it being made a means of deception by which the
public mind is to be misled and misguided; yet intending honestly and patriotically to entertain
any fair proposition for adjustment of pending evils which the Republican members may submit."

On Wednesday, December 12, the morning hour was by agreement set apart for receiving all bills
and resolutions to be submitted to the Committee of Thirty-three. They were duly read and referred,
without debate, to the number of twenty-three.[2] They came principally from Northern members,
though all four parties of the late Presidential campaign were represented, the attitude of
which they mainly reflected. In substance, therefore, they embodied the same medley of affirmations
and denials, of charges and countercharges, of evasions and subterfuges which party discussion
had worn threadbare.

These twenty-three propositions, which were by subsequent additions increased to forty or fifty,
exhibit such a variety of legislative plans that it is impossible to subject them to any classification.
They give us an abstract of the divergent views which Members of Congress entertained concerning
the cause of the crisis and its remedy. They range in purport from a mere assertion of the
duty of preserving and administering the government as then existing, in its simple form and
symmetrical structure, to proposals to destroy and change it to a complex machine, fantastic
in proportion and impracticable in its workings. They afford us evidence of the bewilderment
which beset Congress as well as the outside public, and not so much the absence of reasonable
political principles as the absence of a simple and direct political will, which would resolutely
insist that recognized principles and existing laws should be respected and obeyed.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Dec. 12, 1860, p. 77.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., p. 78.

Among the propositions submitted then and afterwards were several wild and visionary projects
of government. Thus Mr. Jenkins, a Virginia member, proposed an arrangement requiring separate
sanction of the slave-holding interest to each and every operation of government; a dual executive;
a dual senate, or dual majority of the senate, or other advisory body or council. Mr. Noell,
of Missouri, proposed to abolish the office of President, create an executive council of three
members, from districts of contiguous States, give each member the veto power, and establish
equilibrium between the free and the slave-States in the Senate by voluntary division of some
of the slave-States.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 13, 1860, pp. 82, 83.

Stronger minds were not entirely free from the infection of this mania for innovation and experiment.
On the 13th of December, 1860, Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, afterwards President of the United
States, submitted to the Senate a proposal to amend the Constitution in substance as follows:
That the Presidential election should take place in August; that a popular plurality in each
district should count as one vote; that Congress should count the votes on the second Monday
of October; that the President chosen in 1864 be from a slave-holding State, and the Vice-President
from a free-State; and in 1868 the President be from a free-State and the Vice-President from
a slave State, and so alternating every four years. Senators to be elected by vote of the people.
Federal judges to be divided so that one-third of the number would be chosen every fourth year;
the term of office to be twelve years; also all vacancies to be filled, half from free and
half from slave States, the Territories to be divided, establishing slavery south and prohibiting
it north of a fixed line, and providing that three-fifths representation and inter-State slave
trade shall not be changed.

  [Sidenote] "Globe," Feb. 7, 1861, pp. 794, 795.

Perhaps the most complicated project of government was that gravely suggested in the House
on the 7th of February, 1861, by Clement L. Vallandigham, of Ohio, who, not content with the
clogs of a dual form, proposed the following absurd quadruple machinery: The Union to be divided
into four sections: North, West, Pacific, and South. On demand of one-third of the Senators
from any section, for any action to which the concurrence of the House of Representatives may
be necessary,--except on adjournment,--a vote shall be by sections, and a majority of Senators
from each section shall be necessary to the validity of such action. A majority of all the
electors in each of the four sections to be necessary to choice of President and Vice-President;
they should hold the office six years; not to be eligible to reëlection except by vote of two-thirds
of the electors of each section; or of the States of each section whenever the choice devolved
upon the Legislature; Congress to provide for the election of President and Vice-President
when electors failed. No State might secede without consent of the Legislatures of all States
of that section, the President to have power to adjust differences with seceding States, the
terms of agreement to be submitted to Congress; neither Congress nor Territorial Legislatures
should have power to interfere with citizens immigrating--on equal terms--to the Territories,
nor to interfere with the rights of person or property in the Territories. New States to be
admitted on an equal footing with old ones.

The adoption of any or all of the legislative nostrums which were severally suggested, presupposed
a willingness on the part of the South to carry them out and be governed thereby. The authors
of these projects lost sight of the vital difficulty, that if the South refused obedience to
laws in the past she would equally refuse obedience to any in the future when they became unpalatable.
It was not temporary satisfaction, but perpetual domination which she demanded. She did not
need an amendment of the fugitive-slave act, or a repeal of personal liberty bills, but a change
in the public sentiment of the free-States. Give her the simple affirmation that slaves are
property, to be recognized and protected like other property, embody the proposition in the
Constitution, and secure its popular acceptance, and she would snap her fingers at an enumeration
of other details. Fugitive-slave laws, inter-State slave trade, a Congressional slave code,
right of transit and sojourn in the free States, compensation for runaways, new slave States,
and a majority in the United States Senate would follow, as inevitably as that the well planted
acorn expands by the forces of nature into roots, trunk, limbs, twigs, and foliage. This was
what Jefferson Davis formulated in discussing his Senate resolutions of February, 1860,[3]
and the doctrine for which Yancey rent the Charleston Convention in twain. This is what Jefferson
Davis would again demand of the Senate Committee of Thirteen; and, knowing the North would
never concede it, he would, even prior to the demand, join in instigating and proclaiming secession.

---------- [1] The following were members of the Committee of Thirty-three: Messrs. Thomas
Corwin, of Ohio; John S. Millson, of Virginia; Charles F. Adams, of Massachusetts; Warren Winslow,
of North Carolina; James Humphrey, of New York; William W. Boyce, of South Carolina; James
H. Campbell, of Pennsylvania; Peter E. Love, of Georgia; Orris S. Ferry, of Connecticut; Henry
Winter Davis, of Maryland; Christopher Robinson, of Rhode Island; William G. Whiteley, of Delaware;
Mason W. Tappan, of New Hampshire; John L.N. Stratton, of New Jersey; Francis M. Bristow, of
Kentucky; Justin S. Morrill, of Vermont; Thomas A.R. Nelson, of Tennessee; William McKee Dunn,
of Indiana; Miles Taylor, of Louisiana; Reuben Davis, of Mississippi; William Kellogg, of Illinois;
George S. Houston, of Alabama; Freeman H. Morse, of Maine; John S. Phelps, of Missouri; Albert
Rust, of Arkansas; William A. Howard, of Michigan; George S. Hawkins, of Florida; Andrew J.
Hamilton, of Texas; Cadwalader C. Washburn, of Wisconsin; Samuel E. Curtis, of Iowa; John C.
Burch, of California; William Windom, of Minnesota; and Lansing Stout, of Oregon.--"Globe,"
December 6, 1860, page 22.

[2] Below are brief extracts of the salient points of twenty-one of them; the other two, are
given in the text:

1. By Eli Thayer, of Massachusetts: No further acquisition of territory. No Congressional legislation
about slavery. Presidential electors to be chosen by districts.

2. By John Cochrane, of New York: Divide the Territories on the line of 36º 30', prohibiting
slavery north and permitting it south. No prohibition of inter-State slave trade. Unrestricted
right of transit and sojourn with slaves in free States. Personal liberty laws to be null and void.

3. By Garnett B. Adrain, of New Jersey: Non-intervention by Congress. Repeal of personal liberty
laws. Fraternity, conciliation, and compromise.

4. By Edward Joy Morris, of Pennsylvania: To investigate personal liberty laws, and suggest
amendments to fugitive-slave law.

5. By James A. Stewart, of Maryland: Investigation to secure constitutional rights of States
in the Union. If this be impracticable, to investigate best mode of separation.

6. By Shelton F. Leake, of Virginia: No constitutional power to abolish slavery or slave-trade
in the States, Territories, or District of Columbia. Protection to slavery in Territories,
and in transit through or sojourn in free-States. Fugitive slaves lost through State legislation,
or by act of State authorities, to be paid for.

7. By William Smith, of Virginia: Declare out of the Union every State which shall by her legislation
aim to nullify an act of Congress.

8. By Samuel S. Cox, of Ohio: Punishment of executives, judges, attorney-general, or other
officers who obstruct the execution of the fugitive-slave law.

9. By John Hutchins, of Ohio: Laws against kidnaping, lynching, or unreasonable search or seizure.

10. By John Sherman, of Ohio: Laws to enforce all obligations imposed by the Constitution.
Division of all Territory into States, and their prompt admission into the Union.

11. By John A. Bingham, of Ohio: Laws to suppress rebellion, to protect United States property
against unlawful seizure and citizens against unlawful violence.

12. By Robert Mallory, of Kentucky: Prohibit slavery north and protect it south of the line
of 30º 36'. Admit States with or without slavery. No prohibition or abolition of the inter-State
slave trade or slavery in the District of Columbia, or in arsenals, dockyards, etc., of the
United States.

13. By John W. Stevenson, of Kentucky: Declare resistance to fugitive-slave law, or rescue
of slaves from custody of officers, felony.

14. By William H. English, of Indiana: Divide Territories. Congress shall not impair right
of property in slaves. Double compensation from cities, counties, or townships for slaves rescued
by mob violence or State legislation.

15. By David Kilgore, of Indiana: Trial by jury and writ of error under fugitive-slave law.
Criminal prosecution against forcible hindrance or rescue of fugitives. Payment by the United
States for fugitives rescued by force.

16. By William S. Holman, of Indiana: The Constitution is a compact of mutual and permanent
obligation. No right of secession. Laws should be enforced in good faith and with temperate
firmness. Ample legal provision against any attempt to nullify the laws.

17. By William E. Niblack, of Indiana: Payment by offending cities, counties, or districts
for fugitive slaves rescued.

18. By John A. McClernand, of Illinois: Indemnity for fugitive slaves rescued. A special Federal
police to execute United States laws, and suppress unlawful resistance thereof.

19. By Thomas C. Hindman, of Arkansas: Right of property in slaves in slave-States. No interdiction
of inter-State slave trade. Protection of slavery in all Territories. Admission of States with
or without slavery. Right to hold slaves in transit through free-States. Deprive States enacting
personal liberty laws of representation in Congress. Give slave-holding States an absolute
negative upon all action of Congress relating to slavery. States to appoint the officers exercising
Federal functions within their limits. Make these provisions, together with three-fifths representation,
unrepealable.

20. By Charles H. Larrabee, of Wisconsin: A convention to amend Constitution.

21. By Thomas L. Anderson, of Missouri: Submit to the Supreme Court of the United States the
questions at issue between the slave-holding and non-slave-holding States. Carry into effect
by law the opinion of said Court as a final settlement. (Submitted Dec. 13.)--"Globe," Dec.
12 and 13, 1860, pp. 76-79, and 96. Senate Speech, "Globe," May 17, 1860, p. 2155.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE CONSPIRACY PROCLAIMED

To a great majority of the people the hopes and chances of a successful compromise seemed still
cheering and propitious. There was indeed a prevailing agitation in the Southern part of the
Union, but it had taken a virulent form in less than half a dozen States. In most of these
a decided majority still deprecated disunion. Three of the great political parties of the country
were by the voice of their leaders pledged to peace and order; the fourth, apparently controlled
as yet by the powerful influences of official subordination and patronage, must, so it seemed,
yield to the now expressed and public advice of the President in favor of Union and the enforcement
of the law; especially in view of the forbearance and kindness he was personally exercising
towards the unruly elements of his faction. Throughout the Northern States the folly and evils
of disunion appeared so palpable that it was not generally regarded as an imminent danger,
but rather as merely a possible though not probable event. The hasty and seemingly earnest
action of the people and authorities of South Carolina was looked upon as a historical repetition
of the nullification crisis of 1831-32; and without examining too closely the real present
condition of affairs, men hoped, rather than intelligently expected, that the parallel would
continue to the end. Some sort of compromise of the nature of that of 1850 was the prevailing
preoccupation in politics.

This was the popular view of the situation. But it was an erroneous view, because it lacked
the essential information necessary to form a correct and solid judgment. The deep estrangement
between the sections was imperfectly realized. The existence of four parties, a very unusual
occurrence in American politics, had seriously weakened party cohesion, and more than quadrupled
party prejudice and mistrust. There was a strong undercurrent of conviction and purpose, not
expressed in speeches and platforms. But the most serious ignorance was in respect to the character
and fidelity of the high officers of the Government. Of the timidity of Mr. Buchanan, of the
treachery of three members of the Cabinet, of the exclusion of General Scott from military
councils, of the President's refusal to send troops to Anderson, of his stipulation with the
South Carolina Members, of the intrigue which drove General Cass from the head of the State
Department and from the Cabinet, the people at large knew nothing, or so little that they could
put no intelligent construction upon the events. The debates of Congress shed the first clear
light upon the situation, but the very violence and bitterness of the secession speeches caused
the multitude to doubt their sincerity, or placed their authors in the category of fanatics
who would gain no followers.

While, therefore, the Republicans in Congress and in the country maintained, as a rule, an
expectant and watchful silence, the conservatives, made up for the greater part of the supporters
of Bell and Everett, were active in setting on foot a movement for compromise, in the final
success of which they had the fullest confidence; and it is but justice to their integrity
and ability to add that this confidence was warranted by the delusive indications of surface
politics. Highly patriotic in purpose and prudent in act, their leading men in Congress had
promptly opposed secession, had moved a Senate Committee of Thirteen, and secured the appointment
and the organization of the House Committee of Thirty-three. Already some twenty-three different
propositions of adjustment had been submitted to this committee, and under the circumstances
it actually seemed as if only a little patience and patriotic earnestness were needed to find
a compromise,--perhaps an amendment of the Constitution,--which the feverish unrest and impatience
of the nation would compel Congress to enact or propose, and the different States and sections,
willing or unwilling, to accept arid ratify.

Superior political wisdom and more thorough information, as well as a finer strategy, a quicker
enthusiasm, and a more unremitting industry, must be accorded to the conspirators who now labored
night and day in the interest of disunion. They discerned more clearly than their opponents
the demoralization of parties at the North, the latent revolutionary discontent at the South,
the influence of brilliant and combined leadership, and the social, commercial, and political
conditions which might be brought into action. They recognized that they were but a minority,
a faction; but they also realized that as such they had a substantial control of from six to
eleven States whenever they chose to make that control effective, and that, for present uses
at least, the President was, under their influence, but as clay in the hands of the potter.

Better than the Republicans from the North, or even the conservatives from the border States,
they knew that in the Cotton States a widespread change of popular sentiment was then being
wrought and might very soon be complete. Except upon the extreme alternative of disunion, the
people of the border States were eager to espouse their quarrel, and join them in a contest
for alleged political rights. Nearly half the people of the North were ready to acknowledge
the justness of their complaints. The election of Lincoln was indeed a flimsy pretext for separation,
but it had the merit of universal publicity, and of rankling irritation among the unthinking
masses of the South. Agriculture was depressed, commerce was in panic, manufacturing populations
were in want, the national treasury was empty, the army was dispersed, the navy was scattered.
The national prestige was humbled, the national sentiment despondent, the national faith disturbed.

Meanwhile their intrigues had been successful beyond hope. The Government was publicly committed
to the fatal doctrine of non-coercion, and was secretly pursuing the equally fatal policy of
concession. Reënforeements had been withheld from Charleston, and must, from motives of consistency,
be withheld from all other forts and stations. An unofficial stipulation, with the President,
and a peremptory order to Anderson, secured beyond chance the safe and early secession of South
Carolina, and the easy seizure of the Government property. The representatives of foreign governments
were already secretly coquetting for the favor of a free port and an advantageous cotton-market.
Friendly voices came to the South from the North, in private correspondence, in the public
press, even in the open debates of Congress, promising that cities should go up in flames and
the fair country be laid waste before a single Northern bayonet should molest them in their
meditated secession.

Upon such a real or assumed state of facts the conspirators based their theory, and risked
their chances of success in dismembering the republic,--and it must be admitted that they chose
their opportunity with a skill and foresight which for a considerable period of time gave them
immense advantages over the friends of the Union. One vital condition of success, however,
they strangely overlooked, or rather, perhaps, deliberately crowded out of their problem--the
chance of civil war, without foreign intervention. For the present their whole plan depended
upon the assumption that they could accomplish their end by means of the single instrumentality
of peaceable secession; and with this view they proceeded to put their scheme into prompt execution.

  [Sidenote] Correspondence New York "Tribune", Dec. 10, 1860.

The House Committee of Thirty-three had been organized by the selection of Thomas Corwin as
its chairman, and had entered hopefully upon the task confided to it. A caucus of active conspirators
was said to have been held the week previous, to intimidate the members from the Cotton States
and induce them to refuse to serve on the committee, but this coercive movement only partly
succeeded. The Committee of Thirty-three held a long meeting on December 12, and now, on the
morning of the 13th, was once more convened for work. The informal propositions and discussions
of the day previous were renewed, but resulted only in calling out views and schemes too vague
on the one hand or too extreme on the other. The subject was about to be laid over to the following
Saturday, when Albert Rust, of Arkansas, startled the committee with the information that the
extremists were obtaining signatures to a paper to announce to the South that no further concession
was expected from the North, and that any adjustment of pending difficulties had become impossible.
He, therefore, offered a resolution to meet this unexpected crisis, but accepted the following
substitute, offered by William McKee Dunn, of Indiana:

    Resolved, That in the opinion of this Committee, the existing
    discontent among the Southern people and the growing hostility
    among them to the Federal Government are greatly to be regretted,
    and that whether such discontent and hostility are without just
    cause or not, any reasonable, proper, and constitutional remedies
    and effectual guarantees of their peculiar rights and interests,
    as recognized by the Constitution, necessary to preserve the peace
    of the country and the perpetuation of the Union, should be
    promptly and cheerfully granted.

  [Sidenote] Proceedings of the committee and card of Hon. Reuben Davis,
  "National Intelligencer," Dec. 14 and 15, 1860.

  [Sidenote] Gen. Scott, "Autobiography," Vol. II., p. 613.

Other amendments were voted down, and this proposition was adopted by a vote of twenty-two
to eight, and thus, in good faith, a tender of reasonable concession and honorable and satisfactory
compromise was made by the North to the South. But the peace-offering was a waste of patience
and good-will. Caucus after caucus of the secession leaders had only grown more aggressive,
and deepened and strengthened their inflexible purpose to push the country into disunion. The
presence of General Scott, who after a long illness had come from New York to Washington, on
December 12, to give his urgent advice to the work of counteracting secession by vigorous military
preparation, did not disconcert or hinder the secession leaders. His patriotic appeal to the
Secretary of War on the 13th naturally fell without effect upon the ears of one of their active
confederates. Neither the temporizing concession of the President nor the conciliatory and
half-apologetic resolution of the Committee of Thirty-three for one instant changed or affected
the determination to destroy the Government and dissolve the Union.

Friday, December 14, 1860, was a day of gloom and despondency in Mr. Buchanan's office, bringing
to his mind more forcibly than he had ever before realized the utter wreck into which he had
guided his Administration. To the jubilant secessionists it was not only a day of triumph achieved,
but also of apparently assured successes yet to come. The hitherto official organ of the Administration
in its issue of the following morning contained two publications which gave startling notice
to the country of the weakness of the right and the strength of the wrong in the swiftly approaching
struggle for national existence.

The first of these documents was a proclamation from the President of the United States, saying
that in response to numerous appeals he designated the fourth day of January, proximo, as a
day of humiliation, fasting, and prayer. The "dangerous and distracted condition of our country"
was therein thus set forth:

  [Sidenote] Washington "Constitution," Dec. 15, 1860.

    The Union of the States is at the present moment threatened with
    alarming and immediate danger--panic and distress of a fearful
    character prevail throughout the land--our laboring population
    are without employment, and consequently deprived of the means of
    earning their bread--indeed, hope seems to have deserted the
    minds of men.

The second manifesto was more practical and resolute. As the first public and combined action
of the conspirators, it forms the hinge upon which they well-nigh turned the fate of the New
World Republic. It was a brief document, but contained and expressed all the essential purposes
of the conspiracy. It precedes every ordinance of secession, and is the "official" beginning
of the subsequent "Confederate States," just as Governor Gist's October circular was the "official"
beginning of South Carolina secession.

  [Sidenote] Washington "Constitution," Dec. 15, 1860.

    ADDRESS OF CERTAIN SOUTHERN MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.
    TO OUR CONSTITUENTS.

    WASHINGTON, Dec. 14, 1860.

    The argument is exhausted.

    J.L. Pugh of Alabama.
    David Clopton of Alabama.
    Sydenham Moore of Alabama.
    J.L.M. Curry of Alabama.
    J.A. Stallworth of Alabama.
    J.W.H. Underwood of Georgia.
    L.J. Gartrell of Georgia.
    James Jackson of Georgia.
    John J. Jones of Georgia.
    Martin J. Crawford of Georgia.
    Alfred Iverson, U.S. Senator, Georgia.
    George S. Hawkins of Florida.
    T.C. Hindman of Arkansas.
    Jefferson Davis, U.S. Senator, Mississippi.
    A.G. Brown, U.S. Senator, Mississippi.
    Wm. Barksdale of Mississippi.
    O.R. Singleton of Mississippi.
    Reuben Davis of Mississippi.
    Burton Craige of North Carolina.
    Thomas Ruffin of North Carolina.
    John Slidell, U.S. Senator, Louisiana.
    J.P. Benjamin, U.S. Senator, Louisiana.
    J.M. Landrum of Louisiana.
    Louis T. Wigfall, U.S. Senator, Texas.
    John Hemphill, U.S. Senator, Texas.
    J.H. Reagan of Texas.
    M.L. Bonham of South Carolina.
    Wm. Porcher Miles of South Carolina.
    John McQueen of South Carolina.
    John D. Ashmore of South Carolina.

This proclamation of revolution, when analyzed, reveals with sufficient clearness the design
and industry with which the conspirators were step by step building up their preconcerted movement
of secession and rebellion. Every justifying allegation in the document was notoriously untrue.

Instead of the argument being exhausted, it was scarcely begun. So far from Congressional or
constitutional relief having been refused, the Southern demand for them had not been formulated.
Not only had no committee denied hearing or action, but the Democratic Senate, at the instance
of a Southern State, had ordered the Committee of Thirteen, which the Democratic and Southern
Vice-President had not yet even appointed; and when the names were announced a week later,
Jefferson Davis, one of the signers of this complaint of non-action, was the only man who refused
to serve on the committee--a refusal he withdrew when persuaded by his co-conspirators that
he could better aid their designs by accepting. On the other hand, the Committee of Thirty-three,
raised by the Republican House, appointed by a Northern Speaker, and presided over by a Northern
chairman, had the day before by more than a two-thirds vote distinctly tendered the Southern
people "any reasonable, proper, and constitutional remedies and effectual guarantees."

Outside of Congressional circles there was the same absence of any new complications, any new
threats, any new dangers from the North. Since the day when Abraham Lincoln was elected President
there had been absolutely no change of word or act in the attitude and intention of himself
or his followers. By no possibility could they exert a particle of adverse political power,
executive, legislative, or judicial, for nearly three months. Not only was executive authority
in the hands of a Democratic Administration, which had made itself the peculiar champion of
the Southern party, but it had yielded every successive demand of administrative policy made
by the conspirators themselves. The signers of this address to their Southern constituents
had not one single excuse.

CHAPTER XXIX

THE FORTY MUSKETS

Like the commandant of Fort Moultrie, the other officers of the garrison keenly watched the
development of hostile public sentiment, and the steady progress of the secession movement.
Some had their wives and families with them, and to the apprehensions for the honor of their
flag, and the welfare of their country, was added a tenderer solicitude than even that which
they felt for their own lives and persons. Hostility from the constituted authorities of South
Carolina or a tumultuary outbreak of the Charleston rabble was liable to bring overwhelming
numbers down upon them at any hour of the day or night.

The special study of this danger, or rather of the means to meet and counteract it, fell to
Captain J.G. Foster, of the engineer corps, who had been assigned to the charge of these fortifications
on the 1st of September. But his services were also in demand elsewhere, and for more than
two months afterwards the works at Baltimore appear to have claimed the larger part of his
time. On the day after the Presidential election he was directed to give the Charleston forts
his personal supervision, and he arrived there on the 11th of November, remaining thenceforward
till the surrender of Sumter.

  [Sidenote] Lieut. Breck to Major Deas, June 18, 1860.

In time of peace, the administration of military affairs in the United States is somewhat spasmodic,
resulting directly and unavoidably from the fact of our maintaining only the merest skeleton
of a standing army compared to the vast territorial extent of the Union. As an incident of
this system, Fort Moultrie had been allowed to become defenseless. "A child ten years old can
easily come into the fort over the sand-banks," wrote an officer June 18, 1860, "and the wall
offers little or no obstacle." "The ease with which the walls can now be got over without any
assistance renders the place more of a trap, in which the garrison may be shot down from the
parapet, than a means of defense. To persons looking on it appears strange, not to say ridiculous,
that the only garrisoned fort in the harbor should be so much banked in with sand, that the
walls in some places are not one foot above the tops of the banks."

  [Sidenote] Foster to De Russy, Nov. 14, 1860, W.R. Vol. I., p. 73.

By the 14th of November Captain Foster had removed the sand which had drifted against the walls,
repaired the latter, and supplied certain expedients in the way of temporary obstructions and
defenses which were suggested by his professional skill, and available within his resources.
"I have made these temporary defenses as inexpensive as possible," he writes, "and they consist
simply of a stout board fence ten feet high, surmounted by strips filled with nail-points,
with a dry brick wall two bricks thick on the inside, raised to the height of a man's head,
and pierced with embrasures and a sufficient number of loop-holes. Their immediate construction
has satisfied and gratified the commanding officer, Colonel Gardiner, and they are, I think,
adequate to the present wants of the garrison."

Of what avail, however, all the resources of engineering science, where forts were absolutely
soldierless, and their walls without even a solitary sentinel? This was the condition of Fort
Sumter and Castle Pinckney, after weeks of warning and positive entreaty to the Government
at Washington, by engineer, inspectors, and commandants alike, all without having brought one
word of encouragement or a single recruit.

But though the President and Secretary of War neglected their proper duty, Captain Foster did
not remit his efforts. The exposed condition of these two priceless forts was the daily burden
of his thoughts. Under Colonel Gardiner he had asked for forty muskets to arm his workmen to
defend Sumter. The engineer bureau at Washington, seconding the suggestion, had obtained the
approval of the Secretary of War, and had issued the order to the storekeeper of the Charleston
arsenal. But when the matter was brought to the notice of Colonel Gardiner he objected. He
was unwilling that this expedient, of doubtful utility at best, should serve as an excuse to
the Secretary of War to refuse to send him the substantial reënforcement of two regular companies
and fifty drilled recruits which he had requested.

  [Sidenote] Foster to De Russy, Nov. 24, 1860. W.R. Vol. I., p. 77.

  [Sidenote] Ibid., Dec. 2, 1860.

  [Sidenote] Indorsement, Dec. 6 and 7. W.R. Vol. I., pp. 83, 84.

  [Sidenote] Wright to Foster, Nov. 28, 1860. W.R. Vol. I., p. 78.

It has already been stated how Colonel Gardiner, instead of obtaining his reënforcements, lost
his command, and as a consequence Captain Foster's order for the forty muskets was duly put
to slumber in a pigeon-hole at the arsenal. When Major Anderson arrived and assumed control
he not only, as we have seen, repeated the demand for additional troops, but recognizing at
a glance the immense interests at stake had himself renewed to Captain Foster the suggestion
about arming some engineer workmen. Captain Foster promptly made the application to the department
for permission, and soon after for arms. Permission came in due course of mail; but by this
time Secretary Floyd would issue no order for the hundred muskets asked for.

  [Sidenote] Foster to De Russy, Dec. 4, 1860, W.R. Vol. I., p. 85.

Nevertheless, the working party of thirty was quartered in Castle Pinckney as quietly as possible,
in order not to irritate the sensitive Charlestonians, and the officers and overseers in the
two forts were instructed to sound and test the loyalty and trustworthiness of the mechanics
and laborers. Those in Sumter had been brought from Baltimore, and in them Captain Foster placed
his greatest hopes; but they disappointed him. On December 3 his overseer informed him that
while they professed a willingness to resist a mob, they were disinclined to fight any organized
volunteer force, and he was reluctantly compelled to abandon the scheme, at least as to Fort
Sumter. But he still clung to the hope that the thirty men sent to Castle Pinckney, having
been chosen with more care, might prove of some service in the hour of need. He gave orders
to his officers to resist to the utmost any demands or attempts on the works, "Having done
thus much," he wrote to the department, "which is all I can do in this respect, I feel that
I have done my duty, and that if any overt act takes place, no blame can properly attach to
me. I regret, however, that sufficient soldiers are not in this harbor to garrison these two
works. The Government will soon have to decide the question whether to maintain them or to
give them up to South Carolina. If it be decided to maintain them, troops must instantly be
sent and in large numbers."

