 I am so in want of
ammunition, provisions, fuel, &c., that I hardly know what to do, but if possible I will re-enter
the Gulf to assist them there. I wrote by Mr. Finlay, announcing to your lordship that if the
whole squadron was to come round here, I am satisfied that Missolonghi, Patras, Lepanto, and
the Castles might be taken. They are much straitened for provisions at all, but particularly
at Missolonghi and Lepanto, and the Castles could be taken by force. Patras is now provisioned
daily by one of Church's generals, Neneka, from Zante, viâ Clarenza. Dr. Gosse informs me how
much you are in want of money. I trust, however, if you obtain any, I shall not be forgotten.
I have only received six hundred dollars from General Church, and my expenses have been enormous,
for fuel, provisions, &c.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

XXX.

                         Karteria, off Vasiladhi, Dec. 29th, 1827.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to inform you that, after having transported the troops of General Church
from Cape Papas to Dragomestre, I undertook the blockade of Vasiladhi, for which purpose I
put in requisition the small craft after-mentioned, and employed them to intercept all communication
with Vasiladhi. This flotilla I placed under the orders of my first lieutenant, M. Falanga;
and on the night of the 16th they entered, and commenced the blockade, which has been so strictly
observed up to this day, that nothing had entered Vasiladhi. One boat, with a letter and fresh
provisions, was captured by our flotilla. I anchored, the gunboat Helvetia in company, outside
Vasiladhi. Your lordship is aware that the Helvetia was armed with a long 32-pounder, which,
in my opinion, is very inferior in every point of view to a 68, but indisputably so for cannonading
a fort only to be reduced by shells. For this reason I changed her 32-pounder long gun for
a 68-pounder cannonade. On the 22nd I bombarded Vasiladhi alone (the gunboat having been detached),
with little effect, the weather being unfavourable; nor could I recommence until to-day, when,
considering the distance we were off (about one and three-quarter mile), and the diminutive
size of the object fired at, better practice has rarely been displayed: four shells out of
seven from this ship and gunboat exploded in, and one blew up, their magazine. I immediately
ordered an assault, in which all the boats took part. The Turks, intimidated by the explosion,
and by our attitude of attack, called for quarter, which I granted them, although they had
previously forfeited their lives by firing on a flag of truce I sent to them with terms of
capitulation. I embarked the prisoners on board this ship, and from thence conveyed them in
safety to near Missolonghi. They were thirty in number; and one Greek badly wounded I have
retained on board to be treated by our surgeon. The original number was from forty to fifty,
the deficit having been killed off by our previous cannonading and by the explosion. I am happy,
my lord, to testify to the exemplary conduct of the Greeks during the whole of this service;
they have borne the fatigues and privations of a winter's blockade in open boats with extraordinary
patience, and the forbearance they displayed towards the Turks rendered any interference of
mine in their favour superfluous. Of my officers, Lieutenant Falanga and Captain Hane, M.A.,
I have only to repeat the often-told tale of their meritorious conduct. To M. Fabricius, commanding
the gunboat Helvetia, I feel much indebted for his zeal and activity, and I am happy to have
so deserving an officer under my orders. The fort of Vasiladhi mounts twelve guns, three of
which are of that remarkably useful piece of ordnance, the Turkish licorne. I have offered
to deliver the Fort of Vasiladhi to General Church upon his remunerating for their services
those employed in taking it.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

  List of small vessels employed in taking Vasiladhi.

  A mistico, Galaxidhiote, Captain Urgaki; the same sent with me into
  the Gulf of Lepanto, and who has served with me ever since.

  A mistico, Galaxidhiote.

  A bonée.

  An armed row-boat.

  Two of my prize launches, armed each with a 9-pounder.

  A bratsiera.

  Five monoxolies, or canoes, for the shallows.

XXXI.

                         Karteria, Dragomestre, Jan. 7th, 1828.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to acquaint you that General Church arrived before Vasiladhi on the 2nd inst.;
and I resigned to him that fort on the third, requesting him to refund the expenses of taking
it; these consist of five dollars per man bounty, besides the provisions of the flotilla employed
in the blockade. The General has promised to repay this, although not without expressing some
surprise at the demand; yet the guns he receives in the fort would pay the whole sum.

On the same day I received an official letter from General Church, requesting me to inform
him what co-operation he might expect from the navy in a projected attack of his on Anatolico.
According to the wish of General Church, I agreed to send all the boats at my disposal that
night, to attempt to capture an island named Poros, commanding the entrance into the Lake of
Anatolico, where the Turks had a post, and we heard he was filling up the passage, and about
to place guns on another island, which would render him entirely master of the entrance. I
soon discovered that what General Church calls the cooperation of the navy is in reality the
navy executing the service, and the army looking on at its leisure, ready to take possession
if success attended the arms of the former. I had understood that I was to be supported by
two rocket-boats of General Church, and by the launch of the Psarian brig, carrying a carronade
to throw grenades; but these did not appear. A dozen policaries arrived from General Church,
and were embarked in the expedition. At half-past three A.M. of the 4th inst. I arrived with
five boats out of nine (the rest having unaccountably kept behind) at a narrow part of the
passage of the lake, across which the Turks had built a wall, and stationed a gunboat behind
it. The Turkish boat was soon put to flight; the sailors jumping into the water soon cleared
away a passage for the boats, and the five of our boats rowed upon Poros, the Turks keeping
up a brisk fire of musketry from that island, and of cannon from Anatolico. We were now within
pistol-shot of Poros, when I found, to my surprise, a fort on it--which I had been assured
there was not, or I would not have attempted the attack, knowing that in our warfare their
holds are not to be thus taken. Seeing no reasonable hope of succeeding, I ordered a retreat;
and having repassed by the way we entered, found General Church's detachment lying flat in
the bottom of their boats out of gun-shot. To say that my officers, Captain Hane, M.A., and
Lieutenant Falanga, also M. Fabricius, commanding the gunboat Helvetia, accompanied me, is
to commend them for their accustomed zeal and gallantry. I cannot conclude without mentioning
the name of Chrysanto, who, after having aided at Vasiladhi, was with me here in his own boat,
and displayed much courage. He had one man wounded, the only loss we sustained. Perceiving
that Anatolico was not to be taken by us; that General Church's troops were (without provisions)
somewhere in a marsh, where our boats could not get to embark them, and that they might have
marched on the mainland close to Anatolico; being without provisions in this ship, and seeing
no possibility of rendering any service by remaining longer before Vasiladhi, I returned to
this port to provide for our immediate wants, and in the hopes of meeting Dr. Gosse, and procuring
from him some funds for the maintenance of my crew, which I think your lordship will see the
necessity of providing me with, as I have not received more than two thousand dollars during
five months, and I have latterly been maintaining this ship in provisions and fuel, besides
furnishing money and provisions to the gunboat and flotilla inside Vasiladhi.

                         I have the honour to be, &c.,

                              F. A. HASTINGS.

The following typographical errors were corrected:

    * Chapter VII, page 25: "intrusted" changed to "entrusted"
    * Appendix, letter IX, page 380: "vessel," changed to "vessel."