Up, and to the office, where sat all the morning, and at noon with my people to dinner, and
so to the office, very busy till night, and then home and made my boy read to me Wilkins's
Reall Character, which do please me mightily, and so after supper to bed with great pleasure
and content with my wife.  This day I hear of poor Mr. Clerke, the solicitor, being dead, of
a cold, after being not above two days ill, which troubles me mightily, poor man!

2nd.  Up, and at the office all the morning upon some accounts of Sir D. Gawden, and at noon
abroad with W. Hewer, thinking to have found Mr. Wren at Captain Cox's, to have spoke something
to him about doing a favour for Will's uncle Steventon, but missed him.  And so back to my
wife in my coach, and so with great content and joy home, where I made my boy to make an end
of the Reall Character, which I begun a great while ago, and do please me infinitely, and indeed
is a most worthy labour, and I think mighty easy, though my eyes make me unable to attempt
any thing in it.  To-day I hear that Mr. Ackworth's cause went for him at Guildhall, against
his accusers, which I am well enough pleased with.

3rd.  Up betimes, and by water with W. Hewer to White Hall, and there to Mr. Wren, who gives
me but small hopes of the favour I hoped for Mr. Steventon, Will's uncle, of having leave,
being upon the point of death, to surrender his place, which do trouble me, but I will do what
I can.  So to the office, and thence home to supper and to bed.

4th.  And so thence away, my coach meeting me there and carrying me to several places to do
little jobs, which is a mighty convenience, and so home, where by invitation I find my aunt
Wight, who looked over all our house, and is mighty pleased with it, and indeed it is now mighty
handsome, and rich in furniture.  After supper they home, and we to bed.

5th.  Up, after a little talk with my wife, which troubled me, she being ever since our late
difference mighty watchful of sleep and dreams, and will not be persuaded but I do dream of
Deb., and do tell me that I speak in my dreams and that this night I did cry, Huzzy, and it
must be she, and now and then I start otherwise than I used to do, she says, which I know not,
for I do not know that I dream of her more than usual, though I cannot deny that my thoughts
waking do run now and then against my will and judgment upon her, for that only is wanting
to undo me, being now in every other thing as to my mind most happy, and may still be so but
for my own fault, if I be catched loving any body but my wife again.  So up and to the office,
and at noon to dinner, and thence to office, where late, mighty busy, and despatching much
business, settling papers in my own office, and so home to supper, and to bed.  Here Mills
made a lazy sermon, upon Moses's meeknesse, and so home, and my wife and I alone to dinner,
and then she to read a little book concerning speech in general, a translation late out of
French; a most excellent piece as ever I read, proving a soul in man, and all the ways and
secrets by which nature teaches speech in man, which do please me most infinitely to read.
By and by my wife to church, and I to my Office to complete my Journall for the last three
days, and so home to my chamber to settle some papers, and so to spend the evening with my
wife and W. Hewer talking over the business of the Office, and particularly my own Office,
how I will make it, and it will become, in a little time, an Office of ease, and not slavery,
as it hath for so many years been.  So to supper, and to bed.

7th.  Up by candlelight, the first time I have done so this winter, but I had lost my labour
so often to visit Sir W. Coventry, and not visited him so long, that I was resolved to get
time enough, and so up, and with W. Hewer, it being the first frosty day we have had this winter,
did walk it very well to W. Coventry's, and there alone with him an hour talking of the Navy,
which he pities, but says he hath no more mind to be found meddling with the Navy, lest it
should do it hurt, as well as him, to be found to meddle with it.  Thence to a Committee of
Tangier, and so with W. Hewer to Westminster to Sir R. Longs office, and so to the Temple,
but did nothing, the Auditor not being within, and so home to dinner, and after dinner out
again with my wife to the Temple, and up and down to do a little business, and back again,
and so to my office, and did a little business, and so home, and W. Hewer with me, to read
and talk, and so to supper, and then to bed in mighty good humour. This afternoon, passing
through Queen's Street, I saw pass by our coach on foot Deb., which, God forgive me, did put
me into some new thoughts of her, and for her, but durst not shew them, and I think my wife
did not see her, but I did get my thoughts free of her soon as I could.

8th.

9th.  Up, and to the Office, but did little there, my mind being still uneasy, though more
and more satisfied that there is no occasion for it; but abroad with my wife to the Temple,
where I met with Auditor Wood's clerk, and did some business with him, and so to see Mr. Spong,
and found him out by Southampton Market, and there carried my wife, and up to his chamber,
a bye place, but with a good prospect of the fields; and there I had most infinite pleasure,
not only with his ingenuity in general, but in particular with his shewing me the use of the
Parallelogram, by which he drew in a quarter of an hour before me, in little, from a great,
a most neat map of England--that is, all the outlines, which gives me infinite pleasure, and
foresight of pleasure, I shall have with it; and therefore desire to have that which I have
bespoke, made.  Many other pretty things he showed us, and did give me a glass bubble, to try
the strength of liquors with.

     [This seems to refer to the first form of the Hon. Robert Boyle's
     hydrometer, which he described in a paper in the "Philosophical
     Transactions" for June, 1675, under the title of a "New Essay
     instrument."  In this paper the author refers to a glass instrument
     exhibited many years before by himself, "consisting of a bubble
     furnished with a long and slender stem, which was to be put into
     several liquors to compare and estimate their specific gravity."
     Boyle describes this glass bubble in a paper in "Philosophical
     Transactions," vol. iv., No. 50, p. 1001, 1669, entitled, "The
     Weights of Water in Water with ordinary Balances and Weights."]

This done, and having spent 6d. in ale in the coach, at the door of the Bull Inn, with the
innocent master of the house, a Yorkshireman, for his letting us go through his house, we away
to Hercules Pillars, and there eat a bit of meat: and so, with all speed, back to the Duke
of York's house, where mighty full again; but we come time enough to have a good place in the
pit, and did hear this new play again, where, though I better understood it than before, yet
my sense of it and pleasure was just the same as yesterday, and no more, nor any body else's
about us. So took our coach and home, having now little pleasure to look about me to see the
fine faces, for fear of displeasing my wife, whom I take great comfort now, more than ever,
in pleasing; and it is a real joy to me. So home, and to my Office, where spent an hour or
two; and so home to my wife, to supper and talk, and so to bed.  So with W. Hewer by coach
to Smithfield, but met not Mr. Dickering, he being not come, and so he [Will] and I to a cook's
shop, in Aldersgate Street; and dined well for 19 1/2 d., upon roast beef, pleasing ourselves
with the infinite strength we have to prove Middleton a coxcomb; and so, having dined, we back
to Smithfield, and there met Dickering, and up and down all the afternoon about horses, and
did see the knaveries and tricks of jockeys.  Here I met W. Joyce, who troubled me with his
impertinencies a great while, and the like Mr. Knepp, who, it seems, is a kind of a jockey,
and would fain have been doing something for me, but I avoided him, and the more for fear of
being troubled thereby with his wife, whom I desire but dare not see, for my vow to my wife.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, and so the
like mighty busy, late, all the afternoon, that I might be ready to go to the drawing up of
my answer to Middleton to-morrow, and therefore home to supper and to bed. They cost me L50,
and are a fine pair.

13th (Lord's day).  Up, and with W. Hewer to the Office, where all the morning, and then home
to a little dinner, and presently to it again all alone till twelve at night, drawing up my
answer to Middleton, which I think I shall do to very good purpose--at least, I satisfy myself
therein; and so to bed, weary with walking in my Office dictating to him [Hewer]. In the night
my wife very ill, vomited, but was well again by and by.

14th.  Up, and by water to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier, where, among other things,
a silly account of a falling out between Norwood, at Tangier, and Mr. Bland, the mayor, who
is fled to Cales [Cadiz].  His complaint is ill-worded, and the other's defence the most ridiculous
that ever I saw; and so everybody else that was there, thought it; but never did I see so great
an instance of the use of grammar, and knowledge how to tell a man's tale as this day, Bland
having spoiled his business by ill-telling it, who had work to have made himself notorious
by his mastering Norwood, his enemy, if he had known how to have used it. Thence calling Smith,
the Auditor's clerk at the Temple, I by the Exchange home, and there looked over my Tangier
accounts with him, and so to dinner, and then set him down again by a hackney, my coachman
being this day about breaking of my horses to the coach, they having never yet drawn.  Left
my wife at Unthank's, and I to the Treasury, where we waited on the Lords Commissioners about
Sir D. Gawden's matters, and so took her up again at night, and home to the office, and so
home with W. Hewer, and to talk about our quarrel with Middleton, and so to supper and to bed.
At noon Mrs. Mary Batelier with us, and so, after dinner, I with W. Hewer all the afternoon
till night beginning to draw up our answer to Middleton, and it proves troublesome, because
I have so much in my head at a time to say, but I must go through with it.  So at night to
supper and to bed.

16th.  I did the like all day long, only a little at dinner, and so to work again, and were
at it till 2 in the morning, and so W. Hewer, who was with me all day, home to his lodging,
and I to bed, after we had finished it.

17th.  Up, and set my man Gibson and Mr. Fists to work to write it over fair, while I all the
morning at the office sitting.  At noon home to them, and all the afternoon looking over them
and examining with W. Hewer, and so about to at night I to bed, leaving them to finish the
writing it fair, which they did by sitting up most of the night, and so home to bed.

18th.  All the morning at the office about Sir W. Warren's accounts, my mind full of my business,
having before we met gone to Lord Brouncker, and got him to read over my paper, who owns most
absolute content in it, and the advantage I have in it, and the folly of the Surveyor. But,
besides this, I have no small advantage got by this business, as I have put several things
into my letter which I should otherwise have wanted an opportunity of saying, which pleases
me mightily.  And so home, where I have a new fight to fight with my wife, who is under new
trouble by some news she hath heard of Deb.'s being mighty fine, and gives out that she has
a friend that gives her money, and this my wife believes to be me, and, poor wretch!  I cannot
blame her, and therefore she run into mighty extremes; but I did pacify all, and were mighty
good friends, and to bed, and I hope it will be our last struggle from this business, for I
am resolved never to give any new occasion, and great peace I find in my mind by it. So to
supper, she and I to bed.

19th.  So, our own coach coming for us, home, and to end letters, and so home, my wife to read
to me out of "The Siege of Rhodes," and so to supper, and to bed.

20th (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife to church, and then home, and there found W. Joyce
come to dine with me, as troublesome a talking coxcombe as ever he was, and yet once in a year
I like him well enough.  Thence to the coach to my wife, and so home, and there with W. Hewer
to my office and to do some business, and so set down my Journall for four or five days, and
then home to supper and read a little, and to bed. The play done, took leave of Talbot, who
goes into the country this Christmas, and so we home, and there I to work at the office late,
and so home to supper and to bed.

22nd.  At the office all the morning, and at noon to the 'Change, thinking to meet with Langford
about my father's house in Fleet Streete, but I come too late, and so home to dinner, and all
the afternoon at the office busy, and at night home to supper and talk, and with mighty content
with my wife, and so to bed.

23rd.  Met at the Office all the morning, and at noon to the 'Change, and there met with Langford
and Mr. Franke, the landlord of my father's house in Fleet Streete, and are come to an arbitration
what my father shall give him to be freed of his lease and building the house again.  So home
to dinner, and then with my wife alone abroad, with our new horses, the beautifullest almost
that ever I saw, and the first time they ever carried her, and me but once; but we are mighty
proud of them. So home, and to supper and to bed.

24th.  A cold day.  Up, and to the Office, where all the morning alone at the Office, nobody
meeting, being the eve of Christmas.  At noon home to dinner, and then to the Office busy,
all the afternoon, and at night home to supper, and it being now very cold, and in hopes of
a frost, I begin this night to put on a waistcoat, it being the first winter in my whole memory
that ever I staid till this day before I did so.  So to bed in mighty good humour with my wife,
but sad, in one thing, and that is for my poor eyes.

25th (Christmas-day).  Up, and continued on my waistcoat, the first day
this winter, and I to church, where Alderman Backewell, coming in late, I
beckoned to his lady to come up to us, who did, with another lady; and
after sermon, I led her down through the church to her husband and coach,
a noble, fine woman, and a good one, and one my wife shall be acquainted
with.  By Rene Des Cartes, Amsterdam, 1617;
     rendered into English, London, 1653, 4to.  The translator, whose
     name did not appear on the title, was William, Viscount Brouncker,
     Pepys's colleague, who proved his knowledge of music by the
     performance.]

--the latter of which I understand not, nor think he did well that writ it, though a most learned
man.  Then, after supper, I made the boy play upon his lute, which I have not done twice before
since he come to me; and so, my mind in mighty content, we to bed.

26th.  Lay long with pleasure, prating with my wife, and then up, and I a little to the Office,
and my head busy setting some papers and accounts to rights, which being long neglected because
of my eyes will take me up much time and care to do, but it must be done.  So home at noon
to dinner, and then abroad with my wife to a play, at the Duke of York's house, the house full
of ordinary citizens.  The play was "Women Pleased," which we had never seen before; and, though
but indifferent, yet there is a good design for a good play.  So home, and there to talk, and
my wife to read to me, and so to bed.

27th (Lord's day).  So home, my coach coming for me, and there find Balty and Mr. How, who
dined with me; and there my wife and I fell out a little about the foulness of the linen of
the table, but were friends presently, but she cried, poor heart!  which I was troubled for,
though I did not give her one hard word.  Dinner done, she to church, and W. How and I all
the afternoon talking together about my Lord Sandwich's suffering his business of the prizes
to be managed by Sir R. Cuttance, who is so deep in the business, more than my Lord knows of,
and such a loggerhead, and under such prejudice, that he will, we doubt, do my Lord much wrong.
In the evening, he gone, my wife to read to me and talk, and spent the evening with much pleasure,
and so to supper and to bed.  My wife down by water to see her mother, and I with W. Hewer
all day together in my closet making some advance in the settling of my accounts, which have
been so long unevened that it troubles me how to set them right, having not the use of my eyes
to help me.  My wife at night home, and tells me how much her mother prays for me and is troubled
for my eyes; and I am glad to have friendship with them, and believe they are truly glad to
see their daughter come to live so well as she do.  So spent the night in talking, and so to
supper and to bed.

29th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning, and at noon to dinner, and there, by a pleasant
mistake, find my uncle and aunt Wight, and three more of their company, come to dine with me
to-day, thinking that they had been invited, which they were not; but yet we did give them
a pretty good dinner, and mighty merry at the mistake.  They sat most of the afternoon with
us, and then parted, and my wife and I out, thinking to have gone to a play, but it was too
far begun, and so to the 'Change, and there she and I bought several things, and so home, with
much pleasure talking, and then to reading, and so to supper and to bed.

30th.  Up, and vexed a little to be forced to pay 40s. for a glass of my coach, which was broke
the other day, nobody knows how, within the door, while it was down; but I do doubt that I
did break it myself with my knees.  After dinner, my wife and I to the Duke's playhouse, and
there did see King Harry the Eighth; and was mightily pleased, better than I ever expected,
with the history and shows of it.  We happened to sit by Mr. Andrews, our neighbour, and his
wife, who talked so fondly to his little boy.  Thence my wife and I to the 'Change; but, in
going, our neere horse did fling himself, kicking of the coachbox over the pole; and a great
deal of trouble it was to get him right again, and we forced to 'light, and in great fear of
spoiling the horse, but there was no hurt. So to the 'Change, and then home, and there spent
the evening talking, and so to supper and to bed.

31st.  Up, and at the Office all the morning.  At noon Capt. Ferrers and Mr. Sheres

     [Henry Sheres accompanied Lord Sandwich in his embassy to Spain, and
     returned to England in September, 1667, bearing letters from the
     ambassador (see September 8th, 22nd, 27th).  He was an officer in
     the Ordnance, and served under Lord Dartmouth at the demolition of
     the Mole at Tangier in 1683.  He was knighted about 1684.  He
     translated Polybius (2 vols. 8vo., 1693), and also some of the
     "Dialogues" of Lucian, included in the translation published in 1711
     (3 vols. 8vo.).  Pepys bequeathed him a ring, and he died about
     1713.]

come to me to dinner, who did, and pretty pleased with their talk of Spayne; but my wife did
not come down, I suppose because she would not, Captain Ferrers being there, to oblige me by
it.  They gone, after dinner, I to the office, and then in the evening home, being the last
day of the year, to endeavour to pay all bills and servants' wages, &c., which I did almost
to L5 that I know that I owe in the world, but to the publique; and so with great pleasure
to supper and to bed, and, blessed be God! the year ends, after some late very great sorrow
with my wife by my folly, yet ends, I say, with great mutual peace and content, and likely
to last so by my care, who am resolved to enjoy the sweet of it, which I now possess, by never
giving her like cause of trouble.  My greatest trouble is now from the backwardness of my accounts,
which I have not seen the bottom of now near these two years, so that I know not in what condition
I am in the world, but by the grace of God, as far as my eyes will give me leave, I will do it.

