The Popinjay or Popingo (signifying painted bird) is a very favourite and popular diversion
in Denmark, and of which it may be interesting to give some account. A society is constituted
of various members, called the "King's Shooting Club," who have a code of laws and regulations
drawn up for their observance; and are under the direction of nine managers. The entrance-money
is 60 dollars. Members are admitted by ballot, and on election receive a diploma on parchment,
with the seal of the society.

The meetings are held in a large building in the environs, and members are decorated with an
order or badge of distinction, which is the figure of a gilded bird with outstretched wings,
perching on a branch of laurel. This is worn on the left breast, and attached to a button-hole
of the waistcoat by a green silk riband. On the breast are marked the letters "D.C." meaning
"Danish Company." On one side of the branch is the date 1542, and on the other 1739.[2] In
the month of August, when the amusement commences, the members meet in their hall, and proceed
in formal procession to an adjoining field on the western side of the city; where arrangements
are previously made for the numerous spectators. The bird to be shot at is about the size of
a parrot, gilded, and placed on the top of a high pole. On their way to the field they are
attended by a band of music, which precedes the members as they march with their pieces over
their shoulders.

According to a law of the institution, the competitors fire at this mark with large rifle pieces
charged with balls, and rested on triangular stands. Whoever is so fortunate as to strike the
wing of the Popingo first, is entitled to a prize. This is sometimes a pair of handsome candlesticks,
or a silver tea-pot and spoons. Whoever hits the tail is entitled to another prize not inferior
to the last; but he who wounds the body of the bird is complimented with the principal one
which weighs at least 65 ounces of silver, and is honoured with the title of the "BIRD KING."
These prizes are surmounted with the royal cipher and crown. His Danish majesty opens this
ceremony in person, and is entitled to the first shot, and the queen to the second, then they
are followed by the other branches of the royal family in succession. The firing continues
until the bird falls. In returning to the hall, the "Bird King," accompanied by the procession,
first enters the room, and is placed at the head of the table laid out for an entertainment,
even in the presence of his majesty. On this occasion he is understood to be invested with
peculiar privileges, such as proposing toasts, directing the order of the feast, &c. and his
own health is first given by the judges. The members pay 100 dollars each. The festival is
honoured by the presence of the royal family, and no person excepting the members, the foreign
ministers, and other distinguished persons, who are specially invited, can be admitted.

The practice of shooting at the Popingo or Popinjay, however, is not peculiar to Denmark. In
Scotland a nearly similar amusement is observed, where the head marksman receives the title
of "Captain." In a future paper, perhaps, I may notice the subject again, as it may prove interesting.

W.H.H.

[2] I imagine this to mean the time of the introduction of the sport, and
    the year when the company was instituted.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMMENSE TROUT.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

In No. 331 of the MIRROR, I observed an article on Trout-fishing in Westmoreland. The writer
states, that the largest trout ever caught in that county weighed four pounds and a half. This
circumstance induces me to send you the annexed account respecting trout in Kent.

The county of Kent affords a vast number of trout-streams, which are nowhere surpassed in England;
and fish of extraordinary size and beauty have frequently been caught in them. Some years ago,
at Farningham, (a village through which a noble trout-stream takes its course), stood a flour-mill,
the proprietor of which informed my father, that he had often observed an enormous trout in
the stream, near the mill-head, and that he would endeavour to catch it, in order to ascertain
its real dimensions, as he was very desirous to have a picture done from it. My father having
consented to undertake the picture, the proprietor caused the trout, though with much difficulty,
to be caught in a stub-net. It appeared of a most beautiful colour, and was finely variegated
with spots; but it possessed such exceeding strength, that the assistance of two men was necessary
to hold it down on a table while the measurement was made. It proved to be twenty-six inches
in length, and weighed nine pounds. The proprietor returned it to the water unhurt, for he
would by no means suffer it to be killed, but caused food from time to time to be thrown into
the stream. This food chiefly consisted of meal and flour, made into small balls, which allured
the trout to remain near the mill-head. When the particulars concerning this remarkable fish
were circulated, many persons came from different parts of Kent, and even from London, to obtain
a sight of it.

Numerous individuals now living at Farningham can attest the truth of this account; and, probably,
the painting may still be seen at that place. September 20, 1828.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTION FOR A BROOK

(For the Mirror.)

SUR UN RUISSEAU.

  Coule gentil ruisseau, sous cet épais fouillage:
  Ton bruit charme les sens--il attendrit le coeur.
  Coule gentil ruisseau, car ton cours est l'image
  D'un beau jour écoulé dans le sein du bonheur.

J. J. ROUSSEAU.

IMITATED FROM THE ABOVE.

  Flow, gentle stream, thy course pursue
    Beneath the shade of waving bowers,
  Where sunbeams lightly glancing through,
    The dew-drops kiss from off the flowers.

  Thy murmurs charm the list'ning ear,
    And soothe the senses to repose--
  No wayward passion rages here,
    The heart no throbbing tumult knows.

  Thy waters, as they glide along,
    Reflect but images of peace,
  Emblem of days, too swiftly flown,
    Pass'd in the midst of happiness.

S.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATIONAL VARIETIES.

(Continued from page 165.)

It is almost impossible to lay down any rule which would define the variations of national
manners as having any reference to climate. We frequently find that the passage of a river,
or a chain of mountains, dividing countries of the same natural features, brings us among an
entirely new people, and presents us with a fresh scene in the melodrama of life. The inhabitants
of Languedoc and Gascony, and the southern parts of France, are the gayest and most lively
of the subjects of Charles X.; but the moment we have crossed the Pyrenees, we are among one
of the gravest nations in the world, the Spaniards. Again, contrast the solemnity and deep
sense of honour of the Turks, with the vivacity and, we regret to add, the deceit and bad faith
of the unfortunate modern Greeks. The virtuous spirit will, we trust, revive in the Morea with
the return of civilization and freedom; for, as no one will attribute the degradation of the
modern Greeks from the high moral cultivation of their ancestors, to any alteration in the
climate of their country, so let us never despair of the return of virtue, of poetry, of the
arts and sciences, whilst Parnassus and Helicon still enjoy the same glorious sun, and whilst
the Isles are still gilded by eternal summer. We want no proofs that patriotism still lives
in Greece, and with that feeling will ever be associated the powers that are able to invigorate
a nation.

Although a mountainous country like Greece, situated in the loveliest climate in the world,
must of course have some effect on the spirit of the people, yet the degree of it seems extremely
uncertain. The Swiss seem in a great measure to have lost their renown for patriotism, by their
slavish submissions to foreign yokes during the late war, and by the apathy with which they
allow their rights to be trampled on at this day by a tyrannical aristocracy at home. There
is now a proverb of "Point d'argent, point de Suisse!"--a melancholy reflection for a land
where Tell drew his unerring shaft in the cause of freedom--where, so late as 1798, a patriot
of the canton of Schwyz concluded an address with these words:--"The dew of the mountain may
still moisten its verdure--the sweets of the valley may still shed their fragrance around you--the
purple grape may still mingle with the green vine--the note of the maiden may still sound sweetly
to the ear of her lover--the soft cry of the infant charm the feelings of the father--the confiding
wife may yet gladden the home of her husband--but the heart of man will be rotten--the spirit
of your ancestors extinguished--Switzerland no more, if you submit to the French. If you love
your country, and value your honour, be men, and resist. If not, prove cowards, and obey."

Patriotism, however, does not confine itself to mountains, as witness the history of the ancient
and modern republics of Italy; of the resistance of Holland and Belgium to their oppressors;
of the English and French revolutions. It is unnecessary to look across the Atlantic, to prove
the existence of the pure plant in its most healthy and vigorous growth. The new world is dedicated
to the cause of liberty, and from that good seed is now springing forth fruit an hundred fold;
the progress of civilization, of knowledge, of virtue, and happiness in the United States,
is, by every recent traveller there, proved to be immense. The example of her own children
is becoming an additional security for right principles to the mother country; and long may
it so continue:

  Yes! in that generous cause, for ever strong,
  The patriot's virtue and the poet's song,
  Still as the tide of ages rolls away,
  Shall charm the world, unconscious of decay!

We cannot even contend that the sun has the effect of inflaming the imaginations of men, and
infusing into them either vivacity or a poetic spirit. The French, Greeks, Egyptians, and Persians
are all remarkable for gaiety; while the Spaniards, Turks, and Chinese, the latitudes of whose
countries vary but little, are noted for a grave and serious deportment. The land that has
given birth to Shakspeare and Milton has no reason to complain of the want of warmth of imagination.
Klopstock and Goëthe,--the latter now allowed to be first of the living poets,--are instances
of the wide range of the spirit of poetry. Shall we, who have seen Byron writing, as it were,
in the midst of us, yield assent to calling Greece and Italy the countries of imagination,
par excellence, because they have produced Homer and Dante? Assuredly not. We cannot even admit,
as a general proposition, that the languages of the south are always the smoothest and most
melodious, and the northern ones harsh, and not adapted for music. The liquid, smooth, and
effeminate language of modern Italy is totally different from the strong, energetic, and harsh
Latin used by the ancient Romans. The Arabic will be immediately admitted, by any who has heard
a page of it read, to be extremely uncouth and disagreeable. The Russian, on the contrary,
is soft and musical. And to recur to a more familiar instance, we shall find the Welsh tongue,
on examination, to be in fact very poetic, and peculiarly capable of giving force and expression--whether
of grandeur, of terror, or of melody--to the idea the words are intended to convey. Let the
reader who understands the Welsh pronunciation, judge whether the following distich is not
an echo to, and as it were a picture of, the sense of the majestic sound of thunder:--

    "Tân a dwr y'n ymwriaw,
    Yw'r taranau dreigiau draw."

  The roaring thunder, dreadful in its ire,
  Is water warring with aërial fire.

The next specimen will show the capability of the Welsh to express soft and melodious sounds:--

    "Mae mil o leisian meluson,
    Mai mêl o hyd ym mola hon."

The mellifluence of these lines, written on a harp, is totally lost in the translation:--

  Within the concave of its womb is found
  The magic scale of soul-enchanting sound.

The best illustration of the comparative degree of mental excellence between the southern and
northern nations, is, perhaps, that of Bishop Berkeley, who compares the southern wits to cucumbers,
which are commonly all good of their kind, but at best an insipid fruit; while the northern
geniuses are like melons, of which not one in fifty is good; but when it is so, it has an excellent
relish. Now it is not probable that the same climate which is favourable to the study of the
sciences and to the reasoning powers, would prevent their being pushed to the utmost extent;
and the solution of this difference may, perhaps, depend on the question, whether a general
diffusion of learning among a people is a state of things usually accompanied by a remarkable
perfection in particular persons. A man of ordinary acquirements in the present day might have
passed for a prodigy in the thirteenth century; and the novelty and distinction attaching to
one who rises above the rest, is, of course, more difficult to attain in an age where knowledge
is possessed universally. Inasmuch, therefore, as the liberal arts have been imported to us
from the south, and their progress is as yet not so extensive in cold countries, the stimulus
to their cultivation in the latter is so much the greater; which is one way of accounting for
the giants in science that have appeared in the north, It is moreover remarkable, that the
northern nations have a stronger apprehension of abstract propositions, and a greater fondness
for generalizing, than seems to be the case in the south. The difference between a Frenchman
and a German is observable in this particular, by any one who attends to their manner of telling
stories. The former, in giving you an account of his being robbed by a servant to whom he had
been particularly kind, first tells you the facts, and concludes with a reflection, "Voila
que le monde est ingrât!" The German, on the other hand, in order to prove to you the general
proposition of the unthankfulness of men to their benefactors, gives you the instance that
has recently happened. To the one, the fact is interesting, because it proves the proposition;
to the other, the proposition is a conclusion, which he hastily draws from an individual occurrence
that has suggested it.

The climate does not appear to affect even the bodies of men to any great degree. We cannot
pronounce that it is the sun which makes the African black, when we see the same heat pouring
down on the copper-coloured American, in the same degree of latitude, though in another longitude.
The inhabitants of Terra del Fuego are of a very dark hue, approaching to black; and yet that
island experiences as severe cold as any part of the earth, as Sir Joseph Banks and Dr. Solander
have testified. The complexion and appearance of the Jews, and other emigratory races, is the
same in all parts of the world. And a stronger proof cannot be given, than the marked distinction
which still exists among the three great families that divide Europe. These three have been
for the last 2,500 years, and still are, the Celts, the Teutonic race, and the Slavonic race.

The Celts have black hair and eyes, and a white skin, verging to brown. They chiefly inhabit
the west of Europe, viz. the south of France, (called by M. Dupin, France obscure,) Spain,
Portugal, and the greatest part of Italy. To them also belong the ancient Britons, the Welsh,
Bretons, Irish, Highland Scotch, and the Manks, or people of the Isle of Man. The great German
race, with blue eyes, yellow or reddish hair, and a fair and red skin, occupies the middle
of Europe. It includes the Swedes, Norwegians, Icelanders, Danes, ancient and modern Germans,
Saxons and English, Caledonians and Lowland Scotch, the Belgians, the Vandals, and the Goths.

The east of Europe contains the Sarmatian and Slavonic tribes, with dark hair and eyes, darker
skin than the Germans, and larger limbs than the Celts. This race includes the Russians, Poles,
Croats, Slavons, Bohemians, Bulgarians, Cossacks, and other tribes using the Slavonic language.

We trust we shall not give offence to such of our readers as wear the Celtic appearance, if
we assume, as undisputed, the general superiority of the Teutonic to the Celtic or Slavonic
races in mental acquirements. We believe that the German race are pre-eminent for their sense
of order, of law, and of social institutions; and whether they derive these advantages from
the east, whence their origin has now been satisfactorily traced, or however they have attained
them, we have only to reflect on the civilization introduced by the Saxons into England--on
the actual state of the ancient Britons at present inhabiting Wales and the Highlands--and
on the terrible disorder and barbarism that reigns in Ireland--to be thankful that the pure
Celtic blood has not been allowed to remain unmixed in these islands.

What, then, it will be asked, is the result of these speculations? Are we to conclude that
the races of men are essentially different, or that the variations are attributable to the
various degrees of moral cultivation that each nation has received? And our answer is, that
we are inclined to believe the capacities for improvement of races, as of individuals, to have
been differently bestowed by nature; but that none are actually incapable of culture. There
is no land, however sterile, that the art of man may not make to produce fruit; but the difficulty
and expense of tillage must be in proportion to the intrinsic richness or poverty of the soil.
We fear that the soil of the Negroes[3], of the American Indians, and of the Esquimaux, must
be laboured at early and late, before it brings forth even an average crop. But we do not despair
even here. Still less could we for a moment depreciate the labours of those who are carrying
education to the utmost bounds of the earth. The more degraded and stupid the condition of
any set of people may be, the more meritorious and thankworthy are those efforts that are made
to advance them one point nearer to the heavens--one step above the beasts that perish. The
advancement of Hayti, though much overrated, is nevertheless considerable; and we trust that
national independence will co-operate there also with the progress of learning, for the increase
of happiness and prosperity. A free government, high public spirit, and an eager desire for
wisdom, are permanent securities for the welfare of the state, and the happiness of the citizens;
and though we cannot control nature, let us endeavour by art to supply what is wanting, where
her bounty has been limited; "let us," in the words of Lord Bacon, "labour to restore and enlarge
the power and dominion of the whole race of man over the universe of things!"

D.

[3] The idea of the ancient Egyptians, as mentioned by Herodotus, having
    been of the same family as the Negroes, is now completely refuted by
    the inquiries of Cuvier and other naturalists. The examinations of
    mummies have been highly useful in setting this question at rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORTON BRIDGE.

A BALLAD.

(For the Mirror.)

The remorseless tragedy on which this ballad is founded, took place upwards of a century ago.
In the retired village of Romanby, near Northallerton, Yorkshire, there resided a desperate
band of coiners, whose respectability and cunning concealment precluded all possibility of
suspicion as to their proceedings. The victim of their revenge was Mary Ward, the servant of
one of those ruffians. Having obtained an accidental view of some secret apartments appropriated
to their treasonable practices, she unguardedly communicated her knowledge to an acquaintance;
which reaching her master's ears, he determined to destroy her. The most plausible story, time,
and means were selected for this purpose. On a Sunday evening, after sunset, an unknown personage
on horseback arrived at her master's mansion, half equipped, to give colour to his alleged
haste, and slated that he was dispatched for Mary, as her mother was dying. She lingered to
ask her master's permission; but he feigned sleep, and she departed without his leave. On the
table of her room was her Bible, opened at those remarkable words in Job, "They shall seek
me in the morning, and shall not find me; and where I am, they shall not come." Her home was
at the distance of eight miles from Romanby; and Morton bridge, hard by the heath where she
was murdered, is the traditionary scene of her nocturnal revisitings. The author has seen the
tree said to have been distorted by her in endeavouring to climb the fence; and has visited
the village and bridge, from which his descriptions are accurately taken. The impression of
her re-appearance is only poetically assumed, for there is too much of what Coleridge would
term "the divinity of nature" around Morton Bridge, to warrant its association with supernatural
mysteries.

  Oh! sights are seen, and sounds are heard,
    On Morton Bridge, at night,
  When to the woods the cheerful birds
    Have ta'en their silent flight.

  When through the mantle of the sky
    No cheering moonbeams delve,
  And the far village clock hath told
   The midnight hour of twelve.

  Then o'er the lonely path is heard
    The sigh of sable trees,
  With deadly moan of suff'ring strife
    Borne on the solemn breeze--

  For Mary's spirit wanders there,
    In snowy robe array'd,
  To tell each trembling villager
   Where sleeps the murder'd maid.

  It was a Sabbath's eve of love,
    When nature seem'd more holy;
  And nought in life was dull, but she
    Whose look was melancholy.

  She lean'd her tear-stain'd cheek of health
    Upon her lily arm,
  Poor, hapless girl! she could not tell
    What caus'd her wild alarm.

  Around the roses of her face
    Her flaxen ringlets fell;
  No lovelier bosom than her own
    Could guiltless sorrow swell!

  The holy book before her lay,
    That boon to mortals given,
  To teach the way from weeping earth
    To ever-glorious heaven;

  And Mary read prophetic words,
    That whisper'd of her doom--
  "Oh! they will search for me, but where
    I am, they cannot come!"

  The tears forsook her gentle eyes,
    And wet the sacred lore;
  And such a terror shook her frame,
    She ne'er had known before.

  She ceas'd to weep, but deeper gloom
    Her tearless musing brought;
  And darker wan'd the evening hour,
    And darker Mary's thought.

  The sun, he set behind the hills,
    And threw his fading fire
  On mountain rock and village home,
    And lit the distant spire.

  (Sweet fane of truth and mercy! where
    The tombs of other years
  Discourse of virtuous life and hope,
    And tell of by-gone tears!)

  It was a night of nature's calm,
    For earth and sky were still;
  And childhood's revelry was o'er,
   Upon the daisied hill.

  The ale-house, with its gilded sign,
    Hung on the beechen bough,
  Was mute within, and tranquilly
    The hamlet stream did flow.

  The room where sat this grieving girl
    Was one of ancient years;
  Its antique state was well display'd
    To conjure up her fears;

  With massy walls of sable oak,
    And roof of quaint design,
  And lattic'd window, darkly hid
    By rose and eglantine.

  The summer moon now sweetly shone
    All softly and serene;
  She clos'd the casement tremblingly
    Upon the beauteous scene.

  Above that carved mantle hung,
    Clad in the garb of gloom,
  A painting of rich feudal state,--
    An old baronial room.

  The Norman windows scarcely cast
    A light upon the wall,
  Where shone the shields of warrior knights
    Within the lonely hall.

  And, pendent from each rusty nail,
    Helmet and steely dress,
  With bright and gilded morion,
    To grace that dim recess.

  Then Mary thought upon each tale
    Of terrible romance:--
  The lady in the lonely tower--
    The murd'rer's deadly glance--

  And moon-lit groves in pathless woods,
    Where shadows nightly sped;
  Her fancy could not leave the realms
    Of darkness and the dead.

  There stood a messenger without,
    Beside her master's gate,
  Who, till his thirsty horse had drunk,
    Would hardly deign to wait.

  The mansion rung with Mary's name,
    For dreadful news he bore--
  A dying mother wish'd to look
    Upon her child once more.

  The words were, "Haste, ere life be gone;"
    Then was she quickly plac'd
  Behind him on the hurrying steed,
    Which soon the woods retrac'd.

  Now they have pass'd o'er Morton Bridge,
    While smil'd the moon above
  Upon the ruffian and his prey--
    The hawk and harmless dove.

  The towering elms divide their tops;
    And now a dismal heath
  Proclaims her "final doom" is near
    The awful hour of death!

  The villain check'd his weary horse,
    And spoke of trust betray'd;
  And Mary's heart grew sick with fright,
    As, answering, thus she said--

  "Oh! kill me not until I see
    My mother's face again!
  Ride on, in mercy, horseman, ride,
    And let us reach the lane!

  "There slay me by my mother's door,
    And I will pray for thee--
  For she shall find her daughter's corse"--
    "No, girl, it cannot be.

  "This heath thou shalt not cross, for soon
    Its earth will hide thy form;
  That babbling tongue of thine shall make
    A morsel for the worm!"

  She leap'd upon the ling-clad heath,
    And, nerv'd with phrensied fear,
  Pursued her slippery way across,
    Until the wood was near.

  But nearer still two fiends appear'd,
    Like hunters of the fawn,
  Who cast their cumb'ring cloaks away,
    Beside that forest lone;

  And bounded swifter than the maid,
    Who nearly 'scap'd their wrath,
  For well she knew that woody glade,
    And every hoary path,

  Obscur'd by oak and hazel bush,
    Where milk-maid's merry song
  Had often charm'd her lover's ear,
    Who blest her silv'ry tongue.

  But Mary miss'd the woodland stile--
    The hedge-row was not high;
  She gain'd its prickly top, and now
    Her murderers were nigh.

  A slender tree her fingers caught--
    It bent beneath her weight;
  'Twas false as love and Mary's fate!
    Deceiving as the night!

  She fell--and villagers relate
    No more of Mary's hour,
  But how she rose with deadly might,
    And, with a maniac's power,

  Fought with her murd'rers till they broke
    Her slender arm in twain:
  That none could e'er discover where
    The maiden's corse was lain.

  When wand'ring by that noiseless wood,
    Forsaken by the bee,
  Each rev'rend chronicler displays
    The bent and treach'rous tree.

  Pointing the barkless spot to view,
    Which Mary's hand embrac'd,
  They shake their hoary locks, and say,
    "It ne'er can be effac'd!"

* * H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

Tanning.

The tanner steeps the skin at first in a weak infusion of bark, until it has acquired a nutmeg
brown colour, and then he gradually increases the strength of the steeping liquors, and after
a time he draws the skin out, and finds that it is converted into leather. A thick piece of
hide requires ten, twelve, or fourteen months, to be converted into good leather; and when
you consider the length of time consumed in the process, and the great capital necessarily
employed, you cannot feel surprised that various plans should have been proposed to lessen
both. It was proposed to tan with warm instead of cold liquors; and although the tan appeared
to promote the skins in a shorter time, the quality of the leather was so much injured, that
it was soon given up. Then it was tried to force the tan through the pores of the skin, by
employing great pressure; but this was not found to answer. But you may ask why the tanner
does not put the skins at once into a strong liquor? The reason is, that the exterior surface
of the skin would soon become tanned, and the central part would remain untanned, which, in
a short time, would begin to rot and decay, and the leather so treated would soon fall to pieces.
The tanner, therefore, judges of the perfection of the tanning by cutting through the leather;
and if he finds it of an uniform brown colour, without any white streak in the centre, he considers
that the process has been successfully conducted. It would require much time to describe all
the operations of the tan-yard, but many of them are interesting, as regards the chemical agents
employed. I might have mentioned to you, that the mode of preparing the skin for tanning, is
first to soak it in lime-water, by which the hair is easily detached; but the cuticle and under
part of the skin, the cellular substance, are scraped off after it has been soaked in the lime
water. A great variety of substances have been used for tanning, as the acorn-cup of the oriental
bark; catechu and sumach have been also used; but the oak bark is most generally used, as furnishing
a large quantity of astringent matter. It is not the business of the chemist to describe the
different kinds of leather, but I may just mention, that the upper leather of shoes is called
curried leather; the leather having been tanned, is rubbed over with oil before it is dried,
and it is then very flexible, pliable, and durable; but if you take a piece of dry leather,
and try to rub it over with oil or grease, you cannot make it enter the pores of the leather;
the black colour is produced by rubbing it over with a solution of green vitriol, the sulphate
of iron. Russian leather is tanned in an infusion of birch bark, and is said to be afterwards
mixed with a quantity of birch tar, to give it that odour for which it is peculiar, which renders
it valuable for book-binding, on account of preventing it from being attacked by insects. Tawed
leather, used for gloves, is made by impregnating the skin with a liquor containing alum and
salt, and afterwards washed in a mixture of yolks of eggs and water; the saline and animal
matters combine, and give it that peculiar softness, and such leather is afterwards coloured
as may be required; having been rolled over wooden rollers, in which are grooves, it is called
Morocco leather. These are the principal varieties of leather employed in this country.--Brande's
Lectures--Lancet.

Mites.

An indefatigable naturalist has undertaken the very difficult task of arranging the family
of acarides, or mites; he divides them into sixty-nine genera, the greater part of them new!

Electro-Attraction of Leaves.

The results of a French experimentalist have lately led him to conclude that the leaves, hairs,
and thorns of plants tend to maintain in them the requisite proportion of electricity; and,
by drawing off from the atmosphere what is superabundant, they also act in some measure as
thunder-rods.

Enormous Whale.

