No popularity does, or can exist which is not liable to collapses. Two-fold infirmity, alike
for him who judges, and for him who suffers judgment, will not allow it to be otherwise. Sir
Robert Peel, a minister more popular by his tenure of office than any whom this generation
will perhaps again behold, has not been able to escape that ordinary trial of human prosperity.
Suddenly a great cloud of public danger has gathered around him: upon every path there were
seen to lie secret snares: no wisdom could make an election amongst them absolutely safe: he
made that election which comparison of the cases and private information seemed to warrant:
and immediately, of his own supporters many are offended. We believe it to be a truth, one
amongst those new truths whose aspiring heads are even now rising above our horizon, that the
office of first minister, either for France or England, is becoming rapidly more trying by
the quality of its duties. We talk of energy: we invoke the memories of Pitt and of Chatham:
"oh, for one hour," we exclaim, of those great executive statesmen--who "trampled upon impossibilities,"
or glorified themselves in a "vigour beyond the law!" Looking backwards, we are right: in our
gratitude we do not err. But those times are past. For Sir Robert Peel no similar course is
open. Changes in the temper of the age, changes in the constitution of public bodies, absolute
revolutions in the kind of responsibilities by which a minister is now fettered, forbid us
to imagine that any raptures of national sympathy will ever crowd forward to the support of
extreme or summary measures, such as once might have been boldly employed. That style of aspiring
action presumes some approach to unity in public opinion. But such unity we shall hardly witness
again, were a hostile invader even landed on our shores.

Meantime it will add weight to any thing we can offer in behalf of the Irish policy now formally
avowed by Government, if we acknowledge ingenuously that for some weeks we ourselves shared
in the doubts upon its wisdom, not timidly expressed by weighty Conservatives. We believe it,
indeed, natural and honourable that the first movement of feeling upon cases such as those
now proceeding in Ireland, should be one of mere summary indignation. Not that scurrility and
the basest of personalities from Mr O'Connell are either novelties, or difficult to bear. To
hear an old man, a man whose own approach to the period of physical decay, is the one great
hope and consolation of all good subjects in Ireland, scoffing at grey hairs in the Duke of
Wellington--calling, and permitting his creatures to call, by the name of "vagabonds" or "miscreants,"
the most eminent leaders of a sister nation, who are also the chosen servants of that mistress
whom he professes to honour: this might have been shocking in any man who had not long since
squandered his own ability to shock. As it is, these things move only laughter or silent disgust,
according to the temper of readers. And we are sure that not merely the priests, or men of
education amongst Mr O'Connell's followers, but even the peasantry, must in their hearts perceive
how indispensable is a general habit of self-restraint and abstinence from abusive language
to the effect of any individual insult These were not the causes of public indignation. Not
what Mr O'Connell said, but what he did, kindled the general wrath. To see him marching and
countermarching armies, to find him bandying menaces with the Government of this great nation,
and proclaiming (openly or covertly) that he would not be the party to strike the first blow,
but that assuredly he would strike the second--thinking it little to speak as a traitor, unless
also he spoke as an European potentate; this was the spectacle before which the self-control
of so many melted away, and which raised the clamour for vindictive justice. It quickened the
irritation to know, that hostile foreigners were looking on with deep interest, and every where
misinterpreting the true readings of the case. Weeks passed before we could thoroughly reconcile
our own feelings to the passive toleration, or apparent apathy, of the Government. Our sense
of prudence took the alarm, not less than our feelings. And finally, if both could have acquiesced,
our sense of consistency was revolted by what met the public eye; since, if the weak were to
be punished, why should the strong be connived at? Magistrates, to the amount of three score,
had been dismissed for giving their countenance to the Repeal meetings; and yet the meetings
themselves, which had furnished the very principle of the reproach, and the ground of punishment,
were neither dispersed nor denounced.

Rarely, however, in politics, has any man final occasion to repent of forbearance. There may
be a tempest of provocation towards the policy of rigour; that policy may justify itself to
the moral sense of men; modes even of prudence may be won over to sanction it; and yet, after
all the largest spirit of civil prudence, such as all of us would approve in any historical
case removed from the passions of the times, will suggest a much nobler promise of success
through a steady adherence to the counsels of peace, than any which could attend the most efficient
prosecution of a hostile intervention. The exceeding weight of the crisis has forced us into
a closer comparison than usual of the consequences probably awaiting either course. Usually
in such cases, we are content to abide the solutions of time; the rapid motion of events settling
but too hastily all doubts, and dispensing with the trouble of investigation. Here, however,
the coincidence of feelings, heavily mortified on our own part, with the serious remonstrances
in the way of argument from journals friendly to Sir Robert Peel's government, would not suffer
us to rest in the uneasy condition of dissatisfied suspense. We found ourselves almost coerced
into pursuing the two rival policies, down to their separate issues; and the result has satisfied
ourselves, that the minister is right. We shall make an effort for bringing over the reader
to our own convictions. Sir Robert, we shall endeavour to show, has not been deficient in proper
energy; his forbearance, where it has been most conspicuous, is either absolute--in which case
it will be found to justify itself, even at present, to the considerate--or it is but provisional,
and waiting for contingencies--in which case it will soon unmask itself more terrifically than
either friend or enemy, perhaps, anticipates.

The Minster's defence is best pursued through the turns of his own admirable speech in the
recent debates on the grievances of Ireland. But, previously, let us weigh for a moment Mr
O'Connell's present position, and the chances that seem likely to have attended any attempt
to deal with him by blank resistance. It had been always understood, by watchful politicians,
that the Repeal agitation slumbered only until the reinstalment of a Conservative administration.
The Whigs were notoriously in collusion at all times, more or less openly, with this "foul
conspiracy:"[N] a crime which, in them, was trebly scandalous; for they it was, in times past,
who had denounced the conspiracy to the nation as ruinous; in that they were right: but they
also it was, who had pointed out the leading conspirator as an individual to national indignation
in a royal speech; and in that they degraded, without a precedent, the majesty of that high
state-document. Descending thus abjectly, as regarded the traitor, the Whigs were not unwilling
to benefit by the treason. They did so. They adulterated with treason during their term of
power: the compact being, that Mr O'Connell should guide for the Government their exercise
of Irish patronage so long as he guaranteed to them an immunity from the distraction of Irish
insubordination. When the Tories succeeded to power, this armistice--this treasonable capitulation
with treason--of necessity fell to the ground; and once again Mr O'Connell prepared for war.
Cessante mercede cessat opera. How he has conducted this war of late, we all know. And such
being the brief history of its origin, embittered to him by the silent expression of defiance,
unavoidably couched in any withdrawal of the guilty commerce, we all guess in what spirit he
will wish to conduct it for the future. But there presents itself the question of his ability--of
his possible resources--for persevering in his one mode of hostility. He would continue his
array of mobs, but can he? We believe not. Already the hours of his sorceries are numbered:
and now he stands in the situation of an officer on some forlorn outpost, before a superior
enemy, and finding himself reduced to half a dozen rounds of ammunition. In such a situation,
whatever countenance he may put on of alacrity and confidence, however rapidly he may affect
to sustain his fire in the hope of duping his antagonist into a retreat, he cannot surmount
or much delay the catastrophe which faces him. More and more reluctantly Mr O'Connell will
tell off the few lingering counters on his beadroll: but at length comes the last; after which
he is left absolutely without resources for keeping the agitation alive, or producing any effect
whatever.

Many fancy not. They suppose it possible that these parades or field-days may be repeated.
But let us consider. Already it impresses a character of childishness on these gatherings of
peasants; and it is a feeling which begins to resound throughout Ireland, that there is absolutely
no business to be transacted--not even any forms to be gone through--and, therefore, no rational
object by which such parades can be redeemed from mockery. Were there a petition to be subscribed,
a vote to be taken, or any ostensible business to furnish an excuse for the meeting--once,
but once only, in each district, it might avail. As it is, we have the old nursery case before us--

    "The king of France march'd up the hill,
    With twenty thousand men,"

followed by his most Christian majesty's successful countermarch. The very children in the
streets would follow them with hootings, if these fooleries were reiterated. But, if that attempt
were made, and in some instances should even succeed, so much the worse for the interests of
Repeal. The effect would be fatal. No device could be found more excellent for killing the
enthusiasm which has called out such assemblies, than the evidence thus forced upon the general
mind--that they were inoperative, and without object, either confessed or concealed. Hitherto
the toil and exhaustion of the day had been supported, doubtless, under a belief that a muster
of insurrectionary forces was desired, with a view to some decisive course of action, when
all should be found prepared. The cautionary order issued for total abstinence from violence
had been looked upon, of course, as a momentary or interim restraint. But if once it were understood
that this order was absolute, or of indefinite application, the chill to the national confidence
would be that of death. For we are not to suppose that the faith and love of the peasantry
can have been given, either personally to Mr O'Connell, or to Repeal, as a cause for itself.
Both these names represent, indirectly, weightier and dearer objects, which are supposed to
stand behind: even Repeal is not valued as an end--but simply as a means to something beyond.
But let that idea once give way, let the present hope languish, let it be thrown back to a
period distant or unassigned--and the ruin of the cause is sealed. The rural population of
Ireland has, it is true, been manoeuvred and exhibited merely as a threatening show to England;
but, assuredly, on that same day when the Irish peasants, either from their own sagacity, or
from newspapers, discover that they have been used as a property by Mr O'Connell, for purposes
in which their own interest is hard to be deciphered, indifference and torpor will succeed.
For this once, the nationality of Ireland has been too frantically stimulated for the toleration
of new delays. Mr O'Connell is at last the martyr of his own success. Should the priestly order
refuse to advance further on a road nominally national, but from which, at any moment, the
leader may turn off, by secret compromise, into a by-road, leading only to family objects,
universal mutiny must now follow. The general will of the priesthood has thus far quelled and
overruled the individual will; but that indignant recusants amongst that order are muttering
and brooding we know, as well from the necessities of human nature, as from actual letters
already beginning to appear in the journals. Under all these circumstances, a crisis is to
be dreaded by the central body of Repealers, which body is doubtless exceedingly small. And
what will hasten this crisis is the inevitable result from a fact noticed as yet only for ostentation.
It is this. The weekly contributions in money, and their sudden overflow, have occasioned some
comments in the House of Lords; on the one side with a view to the dishonesty apparent in the
management of this money, and to the dark purposes which it may be supposed to mask--on the
other, with a view to the increasing heartiness in the service, which it seems to express.
It is, however, a much more reasonable comment upon this momentary increase, so occasional
and timed to meet the sudden resurrection of energy in the general movement, that the money
has flowed so freely altogether under that sane persuasion which also has drawn the peasantry
to the meetings--viz. the fixed anticipation of an immediate explosion. Multitudes in the belief,
suddenly awakened and propagated through Ireland--that now at length, all further excuses laid
aside, the one great national enterprize, so long nursed in darkness, had ripened for execution,
and would at last begin to move--have exerted themselves to do what, under other circumstances,
they would not have done. Even simple delay would now irritate these men beyond control. They
will call for an account. This will be refused, and cannot but be refused. The particular feeling
of these men, that they have been hoaxed and swindled, concurring with the popular rage on
finding that this storm also, like all before it, is to blow over--if there be faith in human
nature, will do more to shake the Repeal speculation than any possible course of direct English
resistance. All frauds would be forgiven in an hour of plausible success, or even in a moment
of undeniable preparation. But disappointment coming in the rear of extravagant hopes will
be fatal, and strike a frost to the heart of the conspiracy. For it cannot be doubted that
none of these extra services, whether in money or personal attendance, would have been rendered
without express assurances from high quarters, and not merely from fond imaginations founded
on appearances, that the pretended regeneration for Ireland was at land.

Now let us see how these natural sequences, from the very nature of the showy demonstrations
recently organized, and from the very promises by which they must have been echoed, will operate
in relation to the measures of the Government; either those which have been adopted, or those
which have been declined. Had the resolution (a fatal resolution, as we now think) been adopted
in the cabinet to disperse the meetings by force, blood would have flowed; and a plea, though
fraudulent in virtue, would have been established for O'Connell--such as we may suppose to
be built upon a fact so liable to perversion. His hands would have been prodigiously strengthened.
The bloodshed would have been kept before the eyes of the people for ever, and would have taken
innumerable forms. But the worst, ultimately the ruinous, operation of this official intervention
would have lain in the plenary excuse from his engagements furnished to Mr O'Connell, and in
the natural solution of all those embarrassments which for himself he cannot solve. At present
he is at his wits' end to devise any probable scheme for tranquillizing the universal disappointment,
for facing the relapse from infinite excitement, and for propitiating the particular fury of
those who will now hold themselves to have been defrauded of their money. Leave this tempest
to itself, and it will go near to overwhelm the man: or if the local separation of the parties
most injured should be so managed as to intercept that result, assuredly it will overwhelm
the cause. In the estimate, therefore, of O'Connell, we may rely upon it--that a battalion
of foot, or a squadron of horse, appearing in aid of the police to clear the ground at Mallow
or at Donnybrook, would have seemed the least questionable godsend that has ever illuminated
his experience. "O jubilate for a providential deliverance!" that would have been his cry.
"Henceforward be all my difficulties on the heads of my opponents!" But at least, it is argued,
the fact would have been against him; the dispersion would have disarmed him, whatever colouring
he might have caused it to bear. Not at all. We doubt if one meeting the less would have been
held. Ready at all times for such emergencies, the leader would not suffer himself to be found
without every conceivable legal quillet, sharpened and retouched, against the official orders.
He would have had an interview with the authorities: he would have shown a flaw in the wording
of the instructions: he would have rebaptized his assembly, and, where no business goes on,
any name will answer: he would have called his mob "a tea-party," or "an agricultural association;"
the sole real object concerned, which is the exhibition of vast numbers trained and amenable
to instant restraint, would have proceeded under new names. This would no longer have languished
when Government had supplied the failing impulse: and in the mean time to have urged that,
merely by its numbers, combined with its perilous tendencies, the gathering was unlawful--would
have availed nothing: for the law authorities in parliament, right or wrong, have affected
doubts upon that doctrine; and, when parliament will not eventually support him, it matters
little that a minister of these days would, for the moment, assume the responsibility of a
strong measure. Or, if parliament were to legislate anew for this special case, the Repealer
would then split his large mobs into many small ones: he would lecture, he would preach, he
would sing, in default of other excuses for meeting. No law, he would observe coolly to the
magistrate, against innumerable prayer-meetings or infinite concerts. The items would still
be reported to one central office: the facit would be the same; and it would tell for the same
cause.

Thus it appears that no fact would have resulted against the Repealers, had the Government
taken a severe course. Still, may it not be said that a fact, and a strong one, survives on
the other side, viz. against the Government, under this forbearing course which they really
have taken? What fact? Is it the organization of all Ireland? Doubtless that bears an ominous
sound: but it must be considered--that if the leader cannot wield this vast organization for
any purposes of his own, and plainly he cannot so long as he acquires no fresh impulses or
openings to action from the indiscretion of his opponents, but on the contrary must be ruined--cause
and leader, party and partisan chief, by the very 'lock' (or as in America is said, the 'fix')
into which he has brought himself, by the pledge which he cannot redeem--far less can that
organization be used by others or for any other purpose. It is an organization not secret;
not bound by oaths; loose and careless in its cohesion; not being good for its proper object,
it is good for no other, and we hear of no one attribute by which it threatens the public peace
beyond its numerical extent.

But is that true? Is it numerically so potent as it is represented? We hardly need to say,
that the exaggerations upon this point have been too monstrous to call for any pointed exposures.
With respect to one of the southern meetings--that at Cork, we believe--by way of applying
some scale or measurement to the exaggerations, we may mention that a military man, actually
measured the ground after the retirement of the crowd. He ascertained that the ground could
barely accommodate twenty-five thousand men standing in regimental order. What was the report
of the newspaper? Four to five hundred thousand, as usual. Indeed, we may complain of our English
Conservative Journals as, in this point, faithfully reflecting the wildest statements of the
Repeal organs. So much strength was apparently given, for the moment, to the Repeal interest
by these outrageous fictions, that we, for our own parts, (whilst hesitating as to other points
of the Government policy,) did not scruple to tax the Home Minister and the Queen's Lieutenant
with some neglect of duty[O] in not sending experienced officers of the army to reconnoitre
the meetings in every instance, and authentically to make returns of the numbers present. Since
reading the minister's speech, however, we are disposed to think that this neglect was not
altogether without design. It appears that Sir Robert relies in part upon these frightful falsehoods
for effecting a national service by rousing the fears of the Roman Catholic landholders. In
this there is no false refinement; for, having very early done all the mischief they could
as incendiary proclamations of power to the working classes, the exaggerations are now, probably,
operating with even more effect in an opposite direction upon the great body of the Catholic
gentry. Cordially to unite this body with the government of Ireland would, by much, overbalance
the fickle support of the peasantry, given for the moment to the cause of disaffection. That
disaffection, under its present form, is already, perhaps, on the point of unlocking its union.
It cannot be permanent as an organization; for, without hope, no combination can sustain itself,
and a disaffection, founded purely upon social causes, can be healed by no Government whatever.
But if the Catholic gentry, treated as they now are with fraternal equality, should heartily
coalesce with the party promoting a closer British connexion, that would be a permanent gain.

The Irish policy, therefore, the immediate facts of the policy, pursued by the Government,
if we distinguish it from the general theory and principles of their policy as laid down in
the speech of the Premier, has not been what it is said to have been. Summing up the heads,
let us say that we are not resigned negligently to the perils of civil war; those perils, though
as great as Mr O'Connell could make them, are not by any means as great as Mr O'Connell describes
them; the popular arrays are ridiculously below the amounts reported to us: in some instances
they have been multiplied by 20, probably in all by 15; the rumour and the terror of these
arrays have operated both ways; for us more permanently than against us. Lastly, it is not
true that the Government has proceeded only by negative steps; the army has been increased
in Ireland, the garrisons have been better arranged; military stations have been strengthened,
and seditious magistrates have been dismissed.

Upon this last point, one word: we have seen nothing more grossly factious in the conduct of
the Whigs, than the assertion, that these magistrates ought not to have been dismissed. Well
might the Chancellor say, that the discussion had been conducted by petty lawyerlike quibbles.
The case stands thus: there are two principles concerned in the tenure of the magistrate's
office--theoretic amenability to the letter of the law, and practical serviceableness for his
duties. Either furnishes a ground of dismissal. To be scandalously indecorous, to be a patron
of gambling in public places, would offer no legal objection to a magistrate; but he would
be dismissed as a person unsuitable by his habits to the gravity of the commission. If you
hire a watchman to protect your premises, and you discharge him upon the ground that he has
been found drinking with reputed burglars, no man will hold the watchman to have been hardly
used, because the burglars had not been convicted judicially. That allegation amounts to this:
that he has not committed any offence known to the laws. What will you reply? "I know it,"
you say: "I grant it; and therefore I charge you with no offence. But I dismiss you on a principle
of expedience. You have violated no law; but you have shown yourself to be a man disqualified
for the very urgent duties of the post--much more disqualified than you would have been by
sickness, blindness, or any other physical infirmity."

Mr O'Connell now threatens to pursue his career, by repeating that same absurd misdemeanour
of summoning a mock parliament, which, some twenty and odd years ago, a Staffordshire baronet
expiated by the penalties of fine and imprisonment. At that crisis we shall see the tranquil
minister unmask his artillery. But could it be reasonable to look for a faithful discharge
of painful duties, arising in these later stages of the Repeal cause (and duties applying probably
to the cases of gentlemen, neighbours, fellow partisans,) from one who had already promoted
that cause, in its previous stages, to the extent of sedition and conspiracy? He who has already
signalized to the nation his readiness to co-operate in so open a mischief as dismemberment
of the empire, wherefore should he shrink from violating an obscure rule of the common law,
or a black letter statute?

But enough of the policy which has been pursued. That, by its nature is limited, and of necessity,
in many points of recent application, is a policy of watching and negation. Now, let us turn
to the general policy, as it is reviewed in the very comprehensive speech of the Prime Minister.
This applies equally to the past and the future. The French journals, and in particular the
Débats, complain that it is crowded with details. How should this be otherwise? Can there be
an answer given to charges whose vice is their vagueness, otherwise than by circumstantial
exposures of their falsehood? Ireland, for instance, has been unfairly treated as to taxes,
partition of indulgences, pecuniary advances. That is the charge. Can it be met with another
answer than by absolute arithmetic, tax-office proofs, or returns from the Exchequer? "But
in these a foreigner takes no interest." Doubtless! and that should be an argument with the
foreigner for his declining to judge upon the question. Want of understanding is not at all
a worse disqualification for acting as a judge than want of interest in the subject. We mention
this pointedly; because it is not to foreigners chiefly that this maxim applies: a profound
injustice continually operates in this way amongst the parliamentary foes of Government. Often
in private life we witness the unprincipled case--that, upon suspecting a man's vindication
to be established by any investigation, men will decline to look into it, as really possessing
too little interest for themselves; though these same people had not found any want of interest
in the allegations--nay, had mastered all the details--so long as the charges pointed to some
disgraceful issue, and the verdict threatened to be unfavourable. An instance of this baseness,
truly shocking to the moral sense, is found in the ridiculous charge against the ministers,
founded upon the mail-coach contract. This was not at all too petty to be pressed with rancour.
However, it was answered. The answer, on the principle of the case, and coupled with the illustrations
from parallel cases, is decisive. And then the taunt is--"But why fasten upon charges so minute
and frivolous?" Minute and frivolous, we grant; but not so in that degree which prevented you
gentlemen in opposition from dwelling on then with genial spite, as being odious in proportion
to their pettiness. "You, you, it was," says Sir Robert, "that pressed the case!" Certainly:
and they it was who would never have withdrawn the case had they not found it untenable. It
is thus easy for two men to concert a collusive attack which shall succeed either way, and
be dishonest both ways. "Do you," says the one, "try on this particular case for harassing
the minister. If it tells, if it sticks, then we both pitch into him. If it fails, then rise
I and say:--'How shameful in an official person to throw dust in the eyes of the House by detaining
it upon a miserable trifle, whilst the criminal gravities of his conduct are skulking in the
rear under this artifice for misleading the public attention!'"

With this prefatory explanation, called for, perhaps, by the unequal importance of the points
reviewed, we shall now rehearse the heads of this speech. It is a speech that, by anticipation,
we may call memorable, looking before and after; good, as a history for half a century gone
by since our union with Ireland; good, we venture to hope, as a rule and as a prophecy for
the spirit of our whole future connexion with that important island. We shall move rapidly;
for our rehearsal will best attain the object we have in view by its brevity and condensation.

I.--Mr Roebuck had insisted that Ireland was made the victim of our English parsimony; not
once and away, but systematically. This happens to be a charge peculiarly irritating to all
parties--to the authors of the parsimony, and to its objects. And, says Sir Robert, I am told
to avoid it as secondary; but observe, it is quite substantial enough, as others say, to justify
"an impeachment." This is the honourable barrister's word; and a "soft" impeachment it will
turn out.

a. By the Act of Union, it was provided that, in voting the civil estimates for Ireland, whatever
sum it should appear that Ireland had averaged for six years before the Union, in her own votes
for a particular purpose, annually that same sum should be voted for a period prescribed by
the United Parliament. The purpose was, internal improvement in Ireland, and any national uses,
whether pious or charitable. What, then, had been the extent of the Irish vote? We neglect
small fractions, and state that it had averaged seventy-three thousand a year. For the first
twenty years, therefore, the obligation upon the Imperial Parliament had been, to vote twenty
times that sum, or L. 1,460,000. This was the contract. What was the performance? Five millions,
three hundred and forty-eight thousand pounds, or three and a half times the amount of the promise.

b. Another extraordinary vote in the Irish Parliament, previous to the Union, had been upon
the miscellaneous estimates. This vote, when averaged on the same principle, had produced annually
one hundred and twenty-eight thousand pounds. To the same sum the United Parliament stood pledged
for the first period of twenty-eight years succeeding the Union. The reader will see at once
that the result ought to have been little more than three and a half millions. That was the
debt. What was the payment? Something beyond five millions.

c. Upon another comparison, viz. between Scotland and Ireland, as to another class of extras
and contingencies, it turns out--that, during the last period of seven years, to Scotland had
been voted six hundred and sixty thousand pounds, to Ireland two million, two hundred, and
sixty thousand; to Scotland, that is, less than one hundred thousand per annum; to Ireland,
more than three hundred thousand.

In the same category stands the relative taxation. Ireland was to pay two-seventeenths of the
whole imperial burden. That was the bargain, which we are not called on to reopen. But, as
extras, as a liberal bonus upon this bargain, Ireland has been excused from paying for windows--for
assessed taxes--for soap. At this moment, in addition to these liberal discounts, she has no
national share, as Ireland,[P] in the Income Tax: and she may be said, in one sense, to receive
her letters gratuitously, for the postage yields nothing to Government, all being absorbed
by the Irish post office. It is little, after this, to start possibilities of unequal contribution
as regards the indirect taxation: this could not be separately apportioned to the three great
limbs of the empire without disturbing the great currents of commerce. It is enough that by
exemptions upon the direct taxes, so far as concerns three of them--window, assessed, and income--Ireland
receives a large indemnity.

II. Connected with the last head is the reproach made to Great Britain upon the subject of
railway encouragement. What encouragement? By money? Yes, says Lord John Russell, whose experience
in office (as one of a cabinet plagued in the way that all cabinets are by projectors and scheming
capitalists) ought to have taught him better. Have we given any money to our own railways?
No: but England is rich. True: and Ireland is not suffered to be so rich as she might be by
her Irish "friends." But rich or not rich, is no question here. If schemes of profit are not
profitable in this country, we do not encourage them. If they are profitable, they want no
encouragement. Still, it is said, might it not be prudent to feed the railroads in Ireland,
not with any view to the scheme for itself but considered as a means of development for the
circumjacent country? No, replies Sir Robert, that is an error: railways may benefit by the
country: but the country through which they race, is rarely affected by them more than the
atmosphere aloft by the balloons. The great towns on the route, or at the extremities, doubtless
benefit; but in too small a degree, unless they are manufacturing towns, to warrant the least
thoughtful of ministers in assisting them. However, to make a beginning, and as a topic to
be borne in mind, how much would be wanted? A matter of ten millions, says Lord John. Olli
subridens, replies the minister, "What! only that?" But, returning to business, he reminds
the house--that, even for so small a sum as ten millions sterling, the nation would perhaps
expect security. Who is to give it? Are the counties traversed to be assessed? But they will
disown the benefit arising. And, says Sir Robert, take a miniature case--a sum little more
than one-tenth of ten millions was advanced by this country on account of the Irish work-houses,
and for a time there was some advantage gained to the industry of the land. But that soon passed
away, and then two evils arose at once. The money was to be repaid, and the employment was
at an end. But this latter evil was worse than it seemed, for it did not act as a simple privation
of so much good; the extra stimulation of the national industry, as invariably happens, and
as at this moment we see in England upon the cessation of a ten years' demand for iron, on
account of our own railways, brought about a corresponding, exhaustion for the new Poor Law,
tending violently to civil tumults. The repayment of that advance will yet cost Ireland many
a groan.

III. If Ireland, then, is not ill-treated as to her taxation, or her public improvements, is
it true that she is ill-treated in the persons of her children? That also has been said; but
Sir Robert disperses that fancy by facts which are as conclusive as they are really little
needed at this day. Sculptors had been appointed by members of the cabinet, police commissioners,
&c.; and, as will easily be believed, with no question ever mooted as to their birth, whether
English, Scotch, or Irish. Subsequently, however, it had turned out as a blind fact, which
is useful in showing the entire indifference to such a point in the minds of public men, that
the larger proportion of successful candidates were Irish. This was an accident certainly,
but an accident irreconcilable with the least shadow of prejudice pointing in that direction.

IV. Of social grievances, grievances connected with the state of society, there are but too
many in Ireland: relations between landlord and tenant for instance; but these are so little
caused or aggravated by Parliament, that they cannot even be lightened by Parliament. What
little is possible, however, says Sir Robert, we will attempt. The elective franchise is another
case; yet, if that is now too much narrowed, why is it so? Let Ireland thank herself, and the
growing indisposition amongst Irish landlords to grant leases. Might we not, then, transfer
to Ireland our English franchise? But that, applied to Irish institutions and arrangements,
would narrow the electoral basis still further than it is narrowed. Not, therefore, against
the Irish, but in their behalf, we withhold our own unsuitable privileges. It is a separate
question, besides, whether the moral civilization of Ireland is equal to the exercise of our
English franchise. Education of the people again, if there is an obstacle at this time to its
movement in Ireland, where does it originate? We all know the great schism upon that subject
existing amongst the Irish Protestants, and how embarrassing the Government has found that
fend--how intractable and embittered, for the very reason that it rested upon no personal jealousies
which might have relaxed or been overruled, but (for one side at least) upon deep conscientious
scruples. Reverence those scruples we must; but still the Irish are not entitled to charge
upon ministers a public evil of their own creation. In all these calamities, or others of the
same nature, oppressing the state of society in Ireland, and derived as an inheritance from
ancient times, the blame too notoriously, in no part of it, rests with the English ministers;
and the proof is evident in this fact--that, except by one monstrous anti-social proposal from
a very few of the opposition members, as a remedy for the land-occupancy complaints--a proposal
strongly disavowed by the leaders of the party, no practical flaw was detected, either of omission
or commission, as affecting the ministerial policy. The objections were pure generalities;
and even Lord John Russell, who adopted the usual complaint against the minister, that he brought
forward no definite plan, and whose own field of choice was therefore left all the wider, offered
nothing more specific than the following mysterious suggestion, which is probably a Theban
hieroglyphic--that, like as the "celebrated" Cromwell, in times past, did appoint Sir Matthew
Hale to the presiding seat on the bench of justice, even so ought Sir Robert Peel to----. But
there the revelation ceased. What are we to suppose the suppressed apodosis of the proposition?
Was it to disarm Mr O'Connell, by making him an archbishop? Little propensity have we to treat
a great national crisis with levity; but surely every man is entitled to feel indignant, that
when the burden of attack upon Government, is for their silence with regard to specific measures,
(which, to be effectual, must often be secret,) those who have the good fortune to be under
no such restraints of secrecy, find themselves able to suggest absolutely nothing. National
resources were not locked up in the treasury--the particular choice may be secret, but the
resources themselves lie open to the whole world--to us, to Lord John Russell, who have no
power, quite as much as to Sir Robert Peel, who wields the thunder. And we cannot but remind
the reader, that one reason, beyond the policy of concealment, which made it hard for Government
to offer suggestions absolutely new, was the simple fact, that such as were fit to be published
they had already acted on. The remodeling of arrangements for the army, the bill for intercepting
the means of arming a rebel force, and the suppression of insurrectionary magistrates--these
three measures were clearly the first steps to be taken. One only of the three is still lingering;
whom, have we to thank for that? A ministry to which the Duke of Wellington belongs, is not
likely to talk first and act afterwards. By the time it became necessary to talk, their work,
for the present, had been done. But some few significant words there were from leaders in both
Houses, which convince us, that, upon any important change of movements on the part of the
Repealers, the silent menaces of Government will begin to speak in a tone such as no man can
misunderstand.

V. Patronage.--Has that great instrument of government been abused by Sir Robert Peel in the
management of Ireland? This question might have arranged itself under either of the two first
heads; but we choose to bring it forward in an insulated form. For we believe that no administration
of any day has ever made the avowal, or had it in their power to make the avowal, which Sir
Robert Peel made to the House of Commons in the speech we are now reviewing. He read two separate
extracts from his own official instructions to Lord De Grey, which actually announced his resolution
(unfettered by the slightest reserve) to renounce the entire church patronage of Ireland as
an instrument of administration. The Lord-Lieutenant was authorized to dispense this patronage
with one solitary view to merit, professional merit, and the highest interests of Ireland.
So noble an act as this, and one so unprecedented in its nobility, needs no praise of ours.
It speaks for itself. And it would be injurious to spend words in emblazonry of that which,
by a spontaneous movement, both sides of the House received with volleying cheers. That kind
of applause is as rare and as significant as the act itself.

VI. and VII. Finally, however, all other questions connected with this great crisis, sink in
importance by the side of the one great interest at stake upon the Union--is that to be maintained?
And, as the Union could not possibly survive the destruction of the Protestant Establishment,
is that to be protected? Are we to receive, at the hands of traitors, a new model for our glorious
empire? and, without condescending to pause for one instant in discussing consequences, are
we to drink of this cup of indignity--that the constitution and settlement of our state, which
one hundred and fifty five years ago required the deliberations of two ancient nations, England
and Scotland, collected in their representatives, to effect, now at this day are to be put
into the furnace anew by obscure conspirators, and traitors long since due to the gallows.
Say not, with Sir James Graham, "that this all-conquering England would perish by the consequences."
If that were endured, already she has perished: and the glory of Israel has departed. The mere
possibility that, by a knot of conspirators, our arch of empire could be dismembered, that
by a bare shout of treason it could be thrown down for ever like the battlements of Jericho
at the blast of trumpets, would proclaim, as in that Judean tragedy, that we stood under a
curse of wrath divine. The dismemberment itself would be less fatal than the ignominy of its
mode. Better to court the hostility of foreign nations, better to lay open our realms to a
free movement of that wrath against us which is so deeply founded in their envy, than to perish
by the hands of poltroons, of thieves, of conspirators. But this fate is not ours. Many times
our Government have repeated that assurance. But, as in the expressions of our affection to
the Sovereign, this assurance is rightly renewed from time to time, and occasions are sought
for renewing it, let the ministers be assured--that, on this point, we are all sound at heart.
All of us are with them from shore to shore. In this island there will be no faltering. It
is shocking, undoubtedly: it is awful, and at such a moment, to hear three lords of old official
standing--Lords Palmerston, Howick, and John Russell, taking occasion to propound ridiculous
and senseless modifications of a plan essentially rebellious, the plan of partial confiscation,
or of partial degradation, for the Protestant Church. Patience hardly can keep pace with the
deliberate consideration of the contradictions which would follow--whether from tampering with
the Church, or with the political settlement of our nations. Sir R. Peel has traced both. From
the one case must follow an independent army, for Ireland an independent government, an independent
war as often as the popular will should speak loudly. From a participation of Protestant property,
or Protestant dignities with the Roman Catholics, would follow instantly the transfer of Protestant
churches, already few enough, the translation of Popish priests (that is, of selected traitors)
to our senate. The very hint is a monument to the disgrace of these noble lords; fatal to all
pretences of earnest patriotism; but still in them accounted for, and perhaps a little palliated,
by the known necessities of party. As respects the general mind, there is no such imbecility
abroad; no such disposition to traffic or go halves, temporize or capitulate with treason.
One only error is prevalent: it has been noticed by Sir R. Peel, who indeed overlooked nothing;
but it may be well to put the refutation into another form. The caballing for dissolution of
the Union, why should that be treasonable? Is the Act of Union more than an Act of Parliament?
Is not every act of Parliament open to objection, petition, annulment? No. It is dismemberment,
says Sir Robert Peel, of the state. We add this--How, and in virtue of what law, does the house
of Brunswick reign? By the Act of Settlement--an act of Parliament--an act about a hundred
and fifty years old. That is but an act of Parliament. Is it open, then, to any of us, or all
of us, to call a meeting for rescinding the Act of Settlement? But all will now advance to
a rapid consummation; Mr O'Connell pursues only his old movement--then he is lost by the decay
of the enthusiasm. He adopts a new one--that which he has obscurely announced. Then we are
as sure as we are of day and night, of his treason, as of British power to crush it, that the
suspended thunderbolt, now raised aloft by the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel, will
put an end to him for ever.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote N: We use the words of the Chancellor; words, therefore, technically legal, in the
debate of July, on Lord Clanricarde's motion for a vote of censure upon Sir E. Sugden.]

[Footnote O: A more striking neglect is chargeable upon some administration in suffering the
Repealers quietly to receive military training. We no more understand how this seditious act
could have been overlooked at the time, than we understand the process by which modest assemblies
of Orangemen have come to be viewed as illegal, pending a state of law, which, upon the whole,
justifies the much larger assemblies of "foul conspirators."]

[Footnote P: People in Ireland, under various heads, as officers of the different services,
&c., pay, but not in quality of Irishmen, when by accident they are such.]