"With a shriek that pierced our ear-drums and must have been heard for many kos,[37] Ibrahim
writhed and jerked so that the stones were thrown from his body and the pegs that held his
feet and hands were torn from the ground. The stakes holding his head firmly, he flung his
body over until his head was beneath it and then back again, and screamed like a wounded horse.
At last he wrenched his head free, and, holding his hands to his face--which appeared to be
in no way injured--leapt up and ran round and round in circles, until he was seized, and, by
my brother's orders, his hands were torn from his face.

  [37] Kos = two miles.

"And behold, his eyes and face were unmarked and uninjured, and the liquid that dripped upon
his clothing made no mark and did no hurt.

"'Blind,' he shrieked,' I am blind! O Merciful Allah, my eyes!' and he fell, howling.

"'Now that is very strange,' said my brother, 'for I threw pure, plain, cold water in his face.
See me drink of the remainder!' and he drank from the bottle, and so did I, in fear and wonder.
Cold, pure, fair water it was, and nothing else!

"But Ibrahim the Weeper was blind. Stone blind to his dying day and never looked upon the sun
again. Little drops of water had struck him blind. Nay, the Hand of Allah had struck him blind--him
who had cried: 'May Allah strike me blind if I do not unto thee a thing of which children yet
unborn shall speak with awe". He had tried to do such a thing and God had struck him blind--though
my brother, who was very learned, spoke of self-suggestion, and of imagination being sometimes
strong enough to make the imagined come to pass. (He told of a man who died for no reason,
on a certain day at a certain hour, because his father had done so and he believed that he
would also. But more likely it was witchcraft and he was under a curse.)

"Howbeit, little drops of pure water blinded Ibrahim the Weeper. And there the foreign blood
of my poor brother showed forth. He could not escape the taint and was weak. At the last moment
he had wavered and, like a fool, had forgiven his enemy."

"Was he a Christian?" I asked (and had often wondered in the past).

"Nahin, Sahib! He was a Mussulman, my father having had him taught with special care by a holy
moulvie,[38] by reason of the fact that his mother had had him sprinkled with holy water by
her priests and had taught him the tenets of the Christian faith--doubtless a high and noble
one since your honour is of it."

  [38] Priest.

"He had been taught the Christian doctrines, then?"

"Without doubt, Sahib. Throughout his childhood; in the absence of his father. And doubtless
this aided his foreign blood in making him act thus foolishly."

"Doubtless," I agreed, with a smile.

"Yea, at the last moment he had put his vengeance from him and behaved like a weak fool, throwing
away the acid, cleaning the bottle and filling it with pure water. He had intended to give
Ibrahim a fright (and also the opprobrious title of the Weeper), to teach him a lesson and
to let him go--provided he swore on the Q'ran never to return to Mekran Kot when he left for
England.... Such a man was my poor brother. But the hand of Allah intervened and Ibrahim the
Weeper lived and died stone blind.... A strange man that poor brother of mine, strong save
when his foreign blood and foreign religion arose like poison within him and made him weak....
There was the case of the English Sergeant Larnce-Ishmeet whom he spared and sent into the
English lines in the little Border War."

"Lance-Sergeant Smith? What regiment?" I asked.

"I know not, Sahib, save that it was a British Infantry Regiment. (He was not Lance-Sergeant
Ishmeet but Sergeant Larnce-Ishmeet.) We ... I mean ... they ... slew many of a Company that
was doing rear-guard and their officers being slain and many men also, a Sergeant took them
off with great skill. Section by section, from point to point he retired them, and our ...
their ... triumphant joy at the capture and slaughter of the Company was changed to gnashing
of teeth--for we lost many and the Company retired safely on the main body. But we got the
Sergeant, badly wounded, and my brother would not have him slain. Rather he showed him much
honour and had him borne to Mekran Kot, and when he was healed he took him to within sight
of the outermost Khyber fort and set him free.... Yet was he not an enemy, Sahib, taken in
war? Strange weaknesses had my poor brother...."

"I knew a Sergeant-Major Lawrence-Smith," I remarked, as light dawned on me after pondering
"Larnce-Ishmeet." "He shot himself at Duri some time ago."

"He was a brave man," said Mir Daoud Khan. "Peace be upon him."

"And what became of your brother?" I asked, although I knew only too well--alas!

"He left Mekran Kot when I did, Sahib, for our father died, the old Jam Saheb was poisoned,
and we had to flee or die. I never saw him again for he made much money (out of rifles), travelled
widely, and became a Sahib (and I followed the pultan[39]). But he died as a Pathan should--for
his honour. In Gungapur jail they hanged him (after the failure of the foolish attempt by some
seditious Sikhs and Punjabis and Bengalis at a second Great Killing) and I do not care to speak
of that thing even to--"

  [39] Infantry Regiment.

A sputter of musketry broke out in the thick vegetation of the river-bed, crackled and spread,
as Subedar-Major Mir Daoud Khan (once against the civilized, brave and distinguished officer)
and I sprang to our feet and hurried to our posts--I, even at that moment, thinking how small
a World is this, and how long is the long arm of Coincidence. Here was I, while waiting for
what then seemed almost certain death, hearing from the lips of his own brother, the early
history of the remarkable, secretive and mysterious man whom I had loved above all men, and
whose death had been the tragedy of my life.

CHAPTER II.

THE BOY.

(Mainly concerning the early life of Moussa Isa Somali.)

Moussa Isa Somali never stole, lied, seduced, cheated, drank, swore, gambled, betrayed, slandered,
blasphemed, nor behaved meanly nor cowardly--but, alas! he had personal and racial Pride.

It is written that Pride is the sin of Devils and that by it, Lucifer, Son of the Morning, fell.

If it be remembered that he fell for nine days, be realized that he must have fallen with an
acceleration of velocity of thirty-two feet per second, each second, and be conceded that he
weighed a good average number of pounds, some idea will be formed of the violence of the concussion
with which he came to earth.

In spite of the terrible warning provided by so great a smash there yet remain people who will
argue that it is better to fall through Pride than to remain unfallen through lack of it. By
Pride, Pride is meant of course--not Conceit, Snobbishness and Bumptiousness, which are all
very damnable, and signs of a weak, base mind. One gathers that Lucifer, Son of the Morning,
was not conceited, snobbish, nor bumptious. Nor was Moussa, son of Isa, Somali--but, like Lucifer,
Son of the Morning, Devil, he fell, through Pride, and came to a Bad End.

One has known people who have owned to a sneaking liking and unwilling admiration for Lucifer,
Son of the Morning--people of the same sort as those who find it difficult wholly to revere
the prideless Erect when comparing them with the prideful Fallen--and, for the life of me,
I cannot help a sneaking liking and unwilling admiration for Moussa Isa Somali, who fell through
Pride.

There was something fine about him, even as there was about Lucifer, Son of the Morning, and
one cannot avoid feeling that if both did not get more of hard luck and less of justice than
some virtuous people one knows, they certainly cut a better figure. Of course it is a mistake
to adopt any line of action that leads definitely to the position of Under-Dog, and to fight
when you cannot win. It is not Prudent, and Prudence leads to Favour, Success, Decorations,
and the Respect of Others if not of yourself. It is also to be remembered that whether you
are a Wicked Rebel or a Noble True-Hearted Patriot depends very largely on whether you succeed
or fail.

All of which is mere specious and idle special pleading on behalf of Moussa Isa, a sinful murderous
Somali....

Most of the memories of Moussa Isa centred round scars. When I say "memories of Moussa Isa"
I mean Moussa Isa's own memories, for there are no memories concerning him. The might, majesty,
dominion and power of the British Empire were arrayed against him, and the Empire's duly appointed
agents hanged him by the neck until he was dead--at an age when some people are yet at school,
albeit he had gathered in his few years of life a quantity and quality of experience quite
remarkable.

'Twas a sordid business, and yet Moussa Isa died, like many very respectable and highly belauded
folk, from the early Christians in Italy to the late Christians in Armenia, for a principle
and an idea.

He was black, he was filthy, he was savage, ignorant and ugly--but he had his Pride, both personal
and racial, for he was a Somali. A Somali, mark you, not a mere Hubshi or Woolly One, not a
common Nigger, not a low and despicable person--worshipping idols, eating human flesh, grubs,
roots and bark--the "black ivory" of Arabs.

If you called Moussa Isa a Hubshi, he either killed you or marked you down for death, according
to circumstances.

Had Moussa Isa lived a few centuries earlier, been of another colour, and swanked around in
painful iron garments and assorted cutlery, he would have been highly praised for his fine
and proper spirit. Poet, bard, and troubadour would have noted and published his quickness
on the point of honour. Moussa would have been set to music and have become a source of income
to the gifted. He would have become a Pillar of the Order of Knighthood and an Ornament of
the Age of Chivalry. A wreath of laurels would have encircled his brow--instead of a rope of
hemp encircling his neck.

For such fine, quick, self-respecting Pride, such resentment of insult, men have become Splendid
Figures of the Glorious Past.

Autres jours autres moeurs.

How many people called him Hubshi, we know not; but we know, from his own lips, of the killing
of some few. Of the killing of others he had forgotten, for his memory was poor, save for insult
and kindness. And, having caught and convicted him in one or two cases the appointed servants
of the British Empire first "reformed" and then slew him in their turn--thus descending to
his level without his excuse of private personal insult and injury....

The scars on Moussa Isa's face with the hole in his ear were connected with one of his very
earliest memories--or one of his very earliest memories was connected with the scars on his
face and the hole in his ear--a memory of jolting along on a camel, swinging upside-down, while
a strong hand grasped his foot; of seeing his father rush at his captor with a long, broad-bladed
spear, of being whirled and flung at his father's head; and of seeing his father's intimate
internal economy seriously and permanently disarranged by the two-handed sword of one of the
camel rider's colleagues (who flung aside a heavy gun which he had just emptied into Moussa's
mamma) as his father fell to the ground under the impact and weight of the novel missile. Though
Moussa was unaware, in his abysmal ignorance, of the interesting fact, the great two-handed
sword so effectually wielded by the supporter of his captor, was exactly like that of a Crusader
of old. It was like that of a Crusader of old, because it was a direct lineal descendant of
the swords of the Crusaders who had brought the first specimens to the country, quite a good
many years previously. Indeed some people said that a few of the swords owned by these Dervishes
were real, original, Crusaders' swords, the very weapons whose hilts were once grasped by Norman
hands, and whose blades had cloven Paynim heads in the name of Christianity and the interests
of the Sepulchre. I do not know--but it is a wonderfully dry climate, and swords are there
kept, cherished, and bequeathed, even more religiously than were the Stately Homes of England
in that once prosperous land, in the days before park, covert, pleasaunce, forest, glade, dell,
and garden became allotments, and the spoil of the "Working"-man.

Picked up after the raid and pursuit with a faceful of gravel, sand, dirt, and tetanus-germs,
Moussa Isa, orphan, was flung on a pile of dead Somali spearmen and swordsmen, of horses, asses,
camels, negroes, (old) women and other cattle--and, crawling off again, received kicks and
orders to clean and polish certain much ensanguined weapons sullied with the blood of his near
and distant relatives. Thereafter he was recognized by the above-mentioned swordsman, and accorded
the privilege of removing his own father's blood from the great two-handed sword before alluded
to--a task of a kind that does not fall to many little boys. So willingly and cheerfully did
Moussa perform his arduous duty (arduous because the blood had had time to dry, and dried blood
takes a lot of removing from steel by one unprovided with hot water) that the Arab swordsman
instead of blowing off the child's head with his long and beautiful gun, damascened of barrel,
gold-mounted of lock, and pearl-inlaid of stock, allowed him to rim for his life that he might
die a sporting death in hot blood, doing his devilmost. (These were not slavers but avengers
of enmity to the Mad Mullah and punishers of friendship to the English.)

"How much law will you give me, O Emir?" asked the child.

"Perhaps ten yards, dog, perhaps a hundred, perhaps more.... Run!"

"You could hit me at a thousand yards, O Emir," was the reply. "Let me die by a shot that men
will talk about...."

"Run, yelping dog," growled the Arab with a sardonic smile.

And Moussa ran. He also bounded, shied, dodged, ducked, swerved, dropped, crawled, zig-zagged
and generally gave his best attention to evading the shot of the common fighting-man whom he
had propitiatorily addressed as "Emir," though a mere wearer of a single fillet of camel-hair
cord around his haik. Like a naval gunner--the Arab laid his gun and waited till the sights
"came on," fired, and had the satisfaction of seeing the child fling up his arms, leap into
the air and fall twitching to the ground. Good shot! The twitches and the last convulsive spasm
were highly artistic and creditable to the histrionic powers of Moussa Isa, shot through the
ear, and inwardly congratulating himself that he had yet a chance. But then he had had wide
opportunity for observation, and plenty of good models, in the matter of sudden-death spasms
and twitches, so the credit is the less. Anyhow, it deceived experienced Arab eyes at a hundred
yards, and the performance may therefore be classed as good. To the reflective person it will
be manifest that Moussa's reverence for the sanctity of human life received but little encouragement
or development from the very beginning....

Returning refugees, a few days later, found Moussa very pleased-with himself and very displeased
with uncooked putrid flesh. Being exceedingly poor and depressed as a result of the Mad Mullah's
vengeful razzia, they sold Moussa Isa, friendless, kinless orphan, and once again cursed the
false English who made them great promises in the Mahdi's troublous day, and abandoned them
to the Mad Mullah and his Dervishes as soon as the Mahdi was happily dead.

The Mad Mullah they could understand; the English they could not. For the Mad Mullah they had
no blame whatsoever; for the English they had the bitterest blame, the deepest hatred and the
uttermost contempt. Who blames the lion for seeking and slaying his prey? Who defends the unspeakable
creature that throws its friends and children to the lion--in payment of its debts and in cancellation
of its obligations to those friends and children? In discussing the raid on their way to market
with Moussa Isa, they mentioned the name of the Mad Mullah with respect and fear. When they
mentioned the English they expectorated and made a gesture too significant to be particularized.
And the tom-toms once again throbbed through the long nights, sending (by a code that was before
Morse) from village to village, from the sea to the Nile, from the Nile to the Niger and the
Zambesi, from the Mediterranean to the Cape, the news that once more the Mad Mullah had flouted
that failing and treacherous race, the English, and slaughtered those who lived within their
gates, under the shadow of their flag and the promise of their protection.

Ere Moussa Isa got his next prominent scar, the signal-drums throbbed out the news that the
gates were thrown open, the flag hauled down, and the promises shamefully broken. That the
representatives of the failing treacherous race now stood huddled along the sea-shore in fear
and trembling, while those who had helped them in their trouble and had believed their word
were slaughtered by the thousand; that the country was the home of fire and sword, the oasis-fields
yielding nothing but corpses, the wells choked with dead ... red slaughter, black pestilence,
starvation, misery and death, where had been green cultivation, fenced villages, the sound
of the quern and the well-wheel, the song of women and the cry of the ploughman to his oxen.
News and comments which did nothing to lessen the pride and insolence of the Jubaland tribesmen,
of the Wak tribesmen, of the bold Zubhier sons of the desert, nor to strike terror to the hearts
of the murderers of Captain Aylmer and Mr. Jenner, of slave-traders, game-poachers, raiders,
wallowers in slaughter....

Another very noticeable and remarkable scar broke the fine lines and smooth contours of Moussa's
throat and another memory was as indelibly established in his mind as was the said scar on
his flesh.

At any time that he fingered the horrible ridged cicatrice, he could see the boundless ocean
and the boundless blue sky from a wretched cranky canoe-shaped boat, in which certain Arab,
Somali, Negro, and other gentlemen were proceeding all the way from near Berbera to near Aden
with large trustfulness in Allah and with certain less creditable goods. It was a long, unwieldy
vessel which ten men could row, one could steer with a broad oar, and a small three-cornered
sail could keep before the wind.

But the various-clad crew of this cranky craft were gentlemen all, who, beyond running up the
string-tied sail to the clothes-prop mast, or taking a trick at the wheel--another clothes-prop
with a large disc of wood at the water-end, were far above work.

Trusting in Allah and Mohammed his Prophet is a lot easier than rowing a lineless, blunt-nosed,
unseaworthy boat beneath a tropical sun. So they trusted in God, and permitted Moussa Isa,
slave-boy, to do all that it was humanly possible for him to do.

Moussa did all that was expected of him, but not so Allah and Mohammed his Prophet.

The gentle breeze that (sometimes) carries you steadily over a glassy sea straight up the forty-fifth
meridian of east longitude from Berbera to Aden in the month of October, failed these worthy
trustful Argonauts, and they were becalmed.

But Time is made for slaves, and the only slave upon the Argosy was Moussa Isa, and so the
becalming was neither here nor there. The cargo would keep (if kept dry) for many a long day--and
the greater the delay in delivery, the greater the impatience of the consignees and their willingness
to pay even more than the stipulated price--its weight in silver per rifle. But food is made
for men as well as slaves, and if you, in your noble trustfulness, resolutely decline to reduce
your daily rations, there must, with mathematical certitude of date, arrive the final period
to any given and limited supply. Though banking wholly with Heaven in the matter of their own
salvation from hunger, the Argonauts displayed mere worldly wisdom in the case of Moussa Isa
and gave him the minimum of food that might be calculated to keep within him strength adequate
to his duties of steering, swarming up the mast, baling, cooking, massaging the liver of the
Leading Gentleman, and so forth. And in due course, the calm continuing, these pious and religious
voyagers came to the bitter end of their water, their rice, their dhurra, their dates--and
all (except the salt and coffee which formed part of the ostensible, bogus cargo) that they
had, as they too-slowly drifted into the track of those vessels that enter and leave the strait
of Bab-el-Mandeb, the Gate of Tears, the tears of the starving, drowning, ship-wrecked and
castaway.

Salt per se is a poor diet, and, for the making of potable coffee, fresh water is very necessary.

Some of the Argonauts were, as has been said, Negro gentlemen. On the third day of absolute
starvation, one had an Idea and made a suggestion.

The Leading Gentleman entertained it with an open mind and without enthusiasm.

The Tanga tout acclaimed it as a divine inspiration.

The one-eyed Moor literally smiled upon it. As his eye was single and his body therefore full
of light, he saw the beauty of the notion at once. Had it been full of food instead, we may
charitably suppose he would not have remarked:--

"A pity we did not feed him up better".

For the suggestion concerned Moussa Isa and food--Moussa Isa as food, in point of fact. The
venerable gentle-looking Arab, whose face beamed effulgent with benevolence and virtue, murmured:--

"He will have but little blood, the dog. None of it must be--er--wasted by the--ah--butcher."

The huge man with the neat geometrical pattern of little scars, perpendicular on the forehead,
horizontal on the cheeks and in concentric circles on the chest (done with loving care and
a knife, in his infancy, by his papa) said only "Ptwack" as he chewed a mouthful of coffee-beans
and hide. It may have been a pious ejaculation or a whole speech in his own peculiar vernacular.
It was a tremendous smacking of tremendous lips, and the expression which overspread his speaking
countenance was of gusto, appreciative, and such as accords with lip-smacking.

But a very fair man (very fair beside the Negroes, Somalis, Arabs and others our little black
and brown brothers), a man with grey-blue eyes, light brown hair and moustache, and olive complexion,
said to the originator of the Idea in faultless English, if not in faultless taste "You damned
swine".

A look of profoundest disgust overspread his handsome young face, a face which undoubtedly
lent itself to very clear expression of such feelings as contempt, disgust and scorn, an unusual
face, with the thin high-bridged nose of an English aristocrat, the large eyes and pencilled
black brows of an Indian noble, the sallow yet cheek-flushed complexion of an Italian peasant-girl,
and the firm lips, square jaw, and prominent chin of a fighting-man. It was essentially an
English face in expression, and essentially foreign in detail; a face of extraordinary contradictions.
The eyes were English in colour, Oriental in size and shape; the mouth and chin English in
mould and in repose, Oriental in mobility and animation; the whole countenance English in shape,
Oriental in complexion and profile--a fine, high-bred, strong face, upon which played shadows
of cruelty, ferocity, diabolical cunning; a face admired more quickly than liked, inspiring
more speculation than trust.

The same duality and contradiction were proclaimed in the hands--strong, tenacious, virile
hands; small, fine, delicate hands; hands with the powerful and purposeful thumb of the West;
hands with the supple artistic fingers and delicate finger-nails of the East.

And the man's name was in keeping with hands and face, with mind, body, soul, and character,
for, though he would not have done so, he could have replied to the query "What is your name?"
with "My name? Well, in full, it is John Robin Ross-Ellison Ilderim Dost Mahommed Mir Hafiz
Ullah Khan, and its explanation is my descent from General Ross-Ellison, Laird of Glencairn,
and from Mir Faquir Mahommed Afzul Khan, Jam of Mekran Kot".

In Piccadilly, wearing the garb of Piccadilly, he looked an Englishman of the English.

In Abdul Rehman Bazaar, Cabul, wearing the garb of Abdul Rehman Bazaar, he looked a Pathan
of Pathans. In the former case, rather more sunburnt than the average lounger in Piccadilly;
in the latter, rather fairer than the average Afghan and Pathan loafer in Abdul Rehman Bazaar.

"Walking down Unter den Linden in Berlin, with upturned moustache, he looked a most Teutonic
German.

"You observed, my friend?" queried the Leading Gentleman (whose father was the son of a Negro-Arab
who married, or should have married, a Jewess captured near Fez, and whose mother was the daughter
of a Tunisian Turk by a half-bred Negress of Timbuctoo).

"I observed," replied the fair young man in the mongrel Arabic-Swahili lingua franca of the
Red Sea and East African littorals "that it is but natural for dogs to prey upon dogs."

"There are times when the lion is driven to prey upon dogs, my dear son," interposed the mild-eyed,
benevolent-looking Arab--a pensive smile on his venerable face.

"Yes--when he is old, mangy, toothless and deserving of nothing better, my dear father," replied
the fair young man, and his glances at the white beard, scanty locks and mumbling mouth of
the ancient gentleman had an unpleasantly personal quality. To the casual on-looker it would
have seemed that an impudent boy deliberately insulted a harmless benevolent old gentleman.
To the fair young man, however, it was well known that the old gentleman's name was famous
across Northern and Eastern Africa for monstrous villainy and fiendish cruelty--the name of
the worst and wickedest of those traders in "black ivory," one of whose side-lines is frequently
gun-running. Also he knew that the benevolent-looking old dear was desirous that the Leading
Gentleman, his partner, should join with him in a little scheme (a scheme revealed by one Moussa
Isa, eaves-dropper) to give the fair young man some inches of steel instead of the pounds of
Teutonic gold due for services (and rifles) rendered, when they should reach the quiet spot
on the northern shore of the Persian Gulf where certain bold caravan-leaders would await them
and their precious cargo--a scheme condemned by the Leading Gentleman on the grounds of the
folly of killing the goose that laid the golden eggs. But then the wealthy Arab patriarch was
retiring from the risky business (already nearly ruined and destroyed by English gun-boats)
after that trip, and the Leading Gentleman was not. Thus it was that the attitude of the fair
young man toward Sheikh Abou ben Mustapha Muscati did not display that degree of respect that
his grey hairs and beautiful old face would appear to deserve.

The French-speaking Moslem Berber ex-Zouave, from Algiers, suggested that Moussa Isa, a slave,
was certainly not fitting food for gentlemen who fight, hunt, travel, poach elephants, deal
in "black ivory," run guns, and generally lead a life too picturesque for an over-"educated,"
utilitarian and depressing age--but what would you? "One eats--but yes, one eats, or one ceases
to live, and one does not wish to cease to live--and therefore one eats" and he cocked a yellow
and appraising eye at Moussa Isa. The sense of the meeting appeared to be that though one would
not have chosen this particular animal, necessity knows no rule--and if the throat be cut while
the animal be alive, one may eat of the flesh and break the Law by so much the less. Moussa
Isa must be halalled.[40] But the fair young man drawing a Khyber knife with two feet of blade,
observed that it was now likely that there would be a plethora of food, as he would most assuredly
cut the throat of any throat-cutter.

  [40] To halal is to make lawful, here to cut the throat of a living
       animal in order that its flesh may be eatable by good Mussulmans.

Moussa Isa regarded him with the look often seen in the eye of an intelligent dog.

The venerable Arab smiled meaningly at the Leading Gentleman, and the Tanga tout asked if all
were to hunger for the silly scruples of one. "If the fair-faced Sheikh did not wish to eat
of Moussa, none would urge it. Live and let live. The gentlemen were hungry; ..." but the fair
young man unreasonably replied, "Then let them eat thee since they can stomach carrion," and
for the moment the subject dropped--largely because the fair young man was supposed always
to carry a revolver, which was not a habit of his good colleagues. It was another evidence
of his strange duality that revolver and knife were (rare phenomenon) equally acceptable to
him, though in certain environment the pistol rather suggested itself to his left hand, while
in others his right hand went quite unconsciously to his long knife.

In the present company no thought of the fire-arm entered his head--this was a knifing, back-stabbing
outfit;--none here who stood up to shoot and be shot at in fair fight....

The Leading Gentleman looked many times and hard at Moussa Isa during the second day of his
own starvation, which was the third of that of his companions and the fourth of Moussa's. The
Leading Gentleman, who was as rich as he was ragged and dirty, wore a very beautiful knife,
which (though it reposed in a gaudy sheath of yellow, green and blue beads, fringed with a
dependent filigree, or lace work, of similar beads with tassels of cowrie-shells) hailed from
Damascus and had a handle of ivory and gold, and an inlaid blade on which were inscribed verses
from the Q'ran.

Moussa Isa knew the pattern of it well by the close of day. The Leading Gentleman took that
evening to sharpening the already sharp blade of the knife. As he sharpened it on his sandal
and the side of the boat, and tried its edge on his thumb, he regarded the thin body of Moussa
Isa very critically.

His look blended contempt, anticipation, and anxiety.

He broke a long brooding silence with the remark:--

"The little dog will be thinner still, to-morrow "--a remark which evoked from the fair youth
the reply: "And so will you".

Perhaps truth covered and excused a certain indelicacy and callousness in the statement of
the Leading Gentleman, albeit the fair young man appeared annoyed at it. His British blood
and instincts became predominant when the killing and eating of a fellow-creature were on the
tapis--the said fellow-creature being on it at the same time.

A colleague from Dar-es-Salaam, who had an ear and a half, three teeth, six fingers, innumerable
pockmarks and a German accent, said, "He will have little fat," and there was bitterness in
his tone. As a business man he realized a bad investment of capital. The food in which they
had wallowed should have gone to the fattening of Moussa Isa. Also a fear struck him.

"He'll jump overboard in the night--the ungrateful dog. Tie him up," and he reached for a coil
of cord.

"He will not be tied up," observed the fair youth in a quiet, obstinate voice.

"See, my friend," said the Leading Gentleman, "it is a case of one or many. Better that one,"
and he pointed to Moussa Isa, "than another," and he looked meaningly at the fair young man.

"And yet, I know not," murmured the venerable Arab, "I know not. We are not in the debt of
the slave. We are in the debt of the Sheikh. It would cancel all obligations if the Sheikh
from the North preferred to offer himself as--"

The young man's long knife flashed from its sheath as he sprang to his feet. "Let us eat monkey,
if eat we must," he cried, pointing to the Arab--and, even as he spoke, the huge man with the
scars, flinging his great arms around the youth's ankles, partly rose and neatly tipped him
overboard. He had long hated the fair man.

Straightway, unseen by any, as all eyes were on the grey-eyed youth and his assailant, Moussa
Isa cast loose the toni[41] that nestled beneath the stern of the larger boat. He was about
to shout that he had done so when he realised that this would defeat his purpose, and also
that the fair Sheikh was still under water.

  [41] Small dug-out canoe.

"Good," murmured the old Arab, "now brain him as he comes up--and secure his body."

But the fair youth knew better than to rise in the immediate neighbourhood of the boat. Swimming
with the ease, grace and speed of a seal, he emerged with bursting lungs a good hundred yards
from where he had disappeared. Having breathed deeply he again sank, to re-appear at a point
still more distant, and be lost in the gathering gloom.

"He is off to Cabul to lay his case before the Amir," observed the elderly Arab with grim humour.

"Doubtless," agreed the Leading Gentleman, "he will swim the 2000 miles to India, and then
up the Indus to Attock." And added, "But, bear witness all, if the young devil turn up again
some day, that I had no quarrel with him.... A pity! A pity!... Where shall we find his like,
a Prank among the Franks, an Afghan among Afghans, a Frenchman in Algiers, a nomad robber in
Persia, a Bey in Cairo, a Sahib in Bombay--equally at home as gentleman or tribesman? Where
shall we find his like again as gatherer of the yellow honey of Berlin and as negotiator in
Marseilles (where the discarded Gras breech-loaders of the army grow) and in Muscat? Woe! Woe!"

"Or his like for impudence to his elders, harshness in a bargain, cunning and greed?" added
the benevolent-looking Arab, who had gained a handsome sum by the murder.

"For courage," corrected the Leading Gentleman, and with a heavy sigh, groaned. "We shall never
see him more--and he was worth his weight to me annually in gold."

"No, you won't see him again," agreed the Arab. "He'll hardly swim to Aden--apart from the
little matter of sharks.... A pity the sharks should have so fair a body--and we starve!" and
he turned a fatherly benevolent eye on Moussa Isa--whom a tall slender black Arab, from the
hills about Port Sudan, of the true "fuzzy-wuzzy" type, had seized in his thin but Herculean
arms as the boy rose to spring into the toni and paddle to the rescue of his benefactor.

The Dar-es-Salaam merchant threw Fuzzy Wuzzy a coil of cord and Moussa Isa (who struggled,
kicked, bit and finding resistance hopeless, screamed, "Follow the boat, Master," as he lay
on his back), was bound to a cracked and salt-encrusted beam or seat that supported, or was
supported by, the cracked and salt-encrusted sides of the canoe-shaped vessel.

Although very, very hungry, and perhaps as conscienceless and wicked a gang as ever assembled
together on the earth or went down to the sea in ships, there was yet a certain reluctance
on the part of some of the members to revert to cannibalism, although all agreed that it was
necessary.

Among the reluctant-to-commence were those who had no negro blood. Among the ready-to-commence,
the full-blooded negroes were the most impatient.

Although very hungry and rather weak they were in different case from that of European castaway
sailors, in that all were inured to long periods of fasting, all had crossed the Sahara or
the Sus, lived for days on a handful of dates, and had tightened the waist-string by way of
a meal. Few of them ever thought of eating between sunrise and sunset. The lives of the negroes
were alternations of gorging and starving, incredible repletion and more incredible fasting;
devouring vast masses of hippopotamus-flesh to-day, and starving for a week thereafter; pounds
of prime meat to-day, gnawing hunger and the weakness of semi-starvation for the next month.

"At sunrise," said the Leading Gentleman finality.

Good! That left the so-desirable element of chance. It left opportunity for change of programme
inasmuch as sunrise might disclose help in the shape of a passing ship. The matter would rest
with Heaven, and pious men might lay them down to sleep with clear conscience, reflecting that,
should it be the Will of Allah that His servants should not eat of this flesh, other would
be provided; should other not be provided it was clearly the Will of Allah that His servants
should eat of this flesh! Excellent--there would be a meal soon after sunrise.

And the Argonauts laid them down to sleep, hungry but gratefully trustful, trustfully grateful.
But Moussa Isa watched the wondrous lustrous stars throughout the age-long, flash-short night
and thought of many things.

Had the splendid, noble Sheikh from the North heard his cry and had he found the toni? How
far had he swum ere his strength gave out or, with sudden swirl, he was dragged under by the
man-eating shark? Would he remove his long cotton shirt, velvet waistcoat and baggy cotton
trousers? The latter would present difficulties, for the waist-string would tangle and the
water would swell the knot and prevent the drawing of string over string.

Moreover, the garments, though very baggy, were tight round the ankles. Would he cast off his
beautiful yard-long Khyber knife? It would go to his heart to do that, both for the sake of
the weapon itself and because he would have to go to his death unavenged, seized by a shark
without giving it its death-wound. Had he heard and would he follow the boat in the moonlight,
find the toni and escape? Could he swim to Aden? They had said not--even leaving sharks out
of consideration, and indeed it must be forty or fifty miles away. Judging by their progress
they must have done about one hundred and fifty miles since they embarked at the lonely spot
on the Berbera coast for the other lonely spot on the Aden coast, where certain whisperings
with certain mysterious camel-riders would preface their provisioning for the voyage along
the weary Hadramant coast to the Ras el Had and Muscat--just a humble boat-load of poor but
honest toilers and tradesmen, interested in dried fish, dates, the pearl-fishery and the pettiest
trading. No, he would never reach land, wonderful swimmer as he was. He would be lost in the
sea as is the Webi Shebeyli River in the sands of the South, unless he followed the drifting
boat and found the toni. Otherwise, he might be picked up, but he would have to keep afloat
all night to do that, unless he had the extraordinary luck to be seen by dhow or ship before
dark. That could hardly be, unless the same ship or dhow were visible from their own boat,
and none had been seen.

No, he must be dead--and Moussa Isa would shortly follow him. How he wished he could have given
his life to save him. Had he known, he would have cried out, "Let them eat me, O Master," and
prevented him from risking his life. If he should get the chance of striking one blow for his
life in the morning he would bestow it upon the scar-faced beast who had tripped the fair Sheik
overboard. If he could strike two he would give the second to the old Arab who flogged women
and children to death with the kourbash,[42] as an amusement, and whose cruelties were famous
in a cruel land; the old Evil who hated, and plotted the death of, the fair Sheikh, with the
leader of the expedition in order that they might divide his large share of the gun-running
proceeds and German subsidy. If he could strike a third blow it should be at the filthy Hubshi
of the Aruwimi, the low degraded Woolly One from the dark Interior (of human sacrifice, cannibalism
and ju-ju) who had proposed eating him. Yes--if he could grab the leader's knife and deal three
such stabs as the Sheikh dealt the lion, at these three, he could die content. But this was
absurd! They would halal him first, of course, and unbind him afterwards.... They might unbind
him first though, so as to place him favourably with regard to--economy. They would use the
empty army-ration tin, shining there like silver in the moonlight, the tin with which he had
done so much weary baling. Doubtless the leader and the Arab would share its contents. He grudged
it them, and hoped a quarrel and struggle might arise and cause it to be spilt.

  [42] Rhinoceros-hide whip.

An unpleasant death! Without cowardice one might dislike the thought of having one's throat
cut while one's hands were bound and one watched the blood gushing into an old army-ration
tin. Perhaps there would be none to gush--and a good job too. Serve them right. Could he cut
his wrists on a nail or a splinter or with the cords, and cheat them, if there were any blood
in him now. He would try. Yes, an unpleasant death. No one, no true Somali, that is, objected
to a prod in the heart with a shovel-headed spear, a thwack in the head with a hammered slug,
a sweep at the neck with a big sword--but to have a person sawing at your throat with weak
and shaking hands is rotten....

One quite appreciated that masters must eat and slaves must die, and the religious necessity
for cutting the throat while the animal is alive, according to the Law--and there was great
comfort in the fact that the leader's knife was inscribed with verses of the Q'ran and would
probably be used for the job. (The leader liked jobs of that sort.) Countless it would confer
distinction in Paradise upon one already distinguished as having died to provide food for a
band of right-thinking, religious-minded gentlemen, who, even in such terrible straits, forgot
not the Law nor omitted the ceremonies....

Where now was the fair-faced master who so resembled the English but was so much braver, fiercer,
so much more staunch? Though fair as they, and knowing their speech, he could not be of a race
that led whole tribes to trust in them, called them "Friendlies" and then forsook them; came
to them in the day of trouble asking help, and then scuttled away and deserted their allies,
leaving them to face alone the Power whose wrath and vengeance their help-giving had provoked.
Yet there were good men among them--there was Kafil[43] Bey for example. Kafil Bey whose last
noble fight he had witnessed. If the fair-faced Sheikh had any of the weak English blood in
his veins it must be of such a man as Kafil Bey.

  [43] Corfield?

Was he still swimming? Had he been picked up? Was he shark's food? To think that he should
have come to his death over such a thing as a slave boy (albeit a Somali and no Hubshi).

This was an Emir indeed.

An idea!... He called aloud: "Are you there, Master? The toni is loose and must be near," again
and again, louder and louder. Perhaps he was following and would hear. Again, louder still.

The one-eyed man, disturbed by the cry, stirred, threw his arms abroad, stretched, and put
his foot on the mouth of a neighbour lying head-to-foot beside him. The neighbour snored loudly
and turned his face sideways under the foot. He had slept standing jammed against the wall
in the Idris of Omdurman, one of the most terrible jails of all time, and a huge foot on his
face was a matter of no moment.

The Tanga tout suddenly emitted a scream, a blood-curdling scream, and immediately scratched
his ribs like a monkey.... Moussa Isa held his peace.

Anon the scar-faced man turned over, moving others.

Could it be near dawn already, and were his proprietors waking up? He could see no change in
the East, no paling of the lustrous stars. Was it an hour ago or eight hours ago that the night
had fallen? Had he an hour to live or a night? Would he ever see Berbera again, steer a boat
down its deep inlet, gaze upon its two lighthouses, its fort, hospital, barracks, piers, warehouses,
bazaars; drive a camel along by its seven miles of aqueduct, look down from the hills upon
this wonderful and mighty metropolis, greater and grander than Jibuti, Zeyla, Bulhar and Karam,
surely the greatest and most marvellous port and city of the world, ere driving on through
the thorn-bush and acacia-jungle into the vast waterless Haud? Would he ever again see the
sun rise in the desert, smell the smoke of the camel-dung cooking-fires.... What was that?
The sky was paling in the East, growing grey, a rose-pink flush on the horizon--dawn and death
were at hand.

Before the heralds of the sun, the moon slowly veiled her face with lightest gossamer while
the weaker stars fled. The daily miracle and common marvel proceeded before the tired eyes
of the bound slave; the rim of the sun appeared above the rim of the sea; the moon more deeply
veiled her face from the fierce red eye, and gracefully and gradually retired before the advance
of the usurping conqueror--and the slave seemed to hear the fat croaking voice of the leader
saying, "At sunrise".

Broad day and all but he asleep. Well--it had come at last. When would they awake? Was the
toni anywhere near?

The man with the geometrical pattern of scars on his face and chest suddenly sat bolt upright
like a released spring, yawned, looked at the sky and the limp sail, and then at Moussa Isa.
As his eye fell upon the boy he smiled copiously, protruded a very red tongue between very
white teeth, and licked huge blue-black lips. He leaned over and awakened the Leading Gentleman.
Then he pointed to the Victim. Both watched the horizon where, beyond distant Bombay and China,
the sun was appearing, rising with the rapidity of the minute hand of a big clock. Neither
looked to the West.

The child knew that when the sun had risen clear of the sea, he might look upon it for a minute
or two--and no more. A puff of wind fanned his cheek; the sail filled and drew. The boat moved
through the water and the one-eyed gentleman, arising and treading upon the out-lying tracts
of the sleepers, stumbled to the rudder, which was tied with coconut-fibre to an upright stake.
The breeze strengthened and there was a ripple of water at the bows. Was he saved?

The one-eyed person looked more disappointed than pleased, and observed to the Leading Gentleman:
"We cannot live to Aden, though the wind hold. We must eat," and he regarded the figure of
Moussa Isa critically, appraisingly, with mingled favour and disfavour. His expressive countenance
seemed to say, "He is food--but he is poor food".

Nevertheless an unmistakable look of relief overspread his face as the Leading Gentleman replied
with conviction, "We must eat...." and added, "This is but a dawn-breeze and will not take
us half a mile".

"Then let us eat forthwith," said the one-eyed man, and he fairly beamed upon Moussa Isa, doubtless
with the said light of which his body was full, in consequence of his singleness of vision.
The whole party was by this time awake and Moussa Isa the cynosure of neighbouring eyes. The
Leading Gentleman drew his beautiful knife from its tawdry sheath and gave it a last loving
strop on his horny palm.

Willing hands dragged the head of Moussa Isa across the beam and willing bodies sat upon him,
that he might not waste time, and something more precious, by thoughtless wriggling, delaying
breakfast. The Leading Gentleman crawled to an advantageous position, and having bowed in prayer,
sawed away industriously.

Moussa Isa wished to shriek to him that he was a fool and a bungler; that throats were not
to be cut in that fashion, with hackings and sawing at the gullet. Knew the clumsy fumbler
nothing of big blood-vessels?... but he could not speak.

"That is not the way," said the benevolent-looking old Arab. "Stab, man, stab under the ear--don't
cut ... not there, anyhow."

The Leading Gentleman tried the other side of the double-edged blade, continuing obstinately,
and Moussa Isa contrived a strange sound which died away on a curious bubbling note and he
grew faint.

Suddenly the one-eyed individual at the rudder screamed aloud, and disturbed the Leading Gentleman's
earnest endeavour to prevent waste. Not from sensibility did the one-eyed scream, nor on account
of his growing conviction that the Leading Gentleman was getting more than his share, but because,
as all realized upon looking up, a great ship was bearing down upon them from the West.

So intent had all been upon the preparation of breakfast that the steamer was almost audible
when seen.

Good! Here came water, rice, bread, sugar, flour, and perhaps meat, for poor castaways, and
probably money--from kindly lady-passengers, this last, for the ship was obviously a liner.
The wretched Moussa Isa's carcase was now superfluous--nay dangerous, and must be disposed
of at once, for Europeans are most kittle cattle. They will exterminate your tribe with machine-guns,
gin, small-pox, and still nastier things, but they are fearfully shocked at a bit of killing
on the part of others. They call it murder. And though they will well-nigh depopulate a country
themselves, they will wax highly indignant if any of the survivors do a little slaying, even
if they kill but a miserable slave, like this Somali dog.

Heave him overboard.

No. Ships carry the "far-eye," the magic instrument that makes the distant near, that brings
things from miles away to within a few yards. Doubtless telescopes were on them already. Keep
in a close group round the body, smuggle it under the palm-mats and make believe to have been
trying to kindle a fire in an old kerosine-oil tin.... Signals of distress appeared and Moussa
Isa disappeared. The great steamer approached, slowed down, and came to a standstill beside
the boat of the starving castaways. From her cliff-like side the passengers, crowding the rails
of her many decks, looked down with interest upon a prehistoric craft in which lay a number
of poor emaciated blacks and Arabs, clad for the most part in scanty cotton rags. These poor
creatures feebly extended skinny hands and feebly raised quavering voices, as they begged for
water and a little rice, only water and a little rice in the name of Allah the Merciful, the
Compassionate. Their tins, lotahs and goat-skins were filled, bags of rice, bread and flour
were lowered to them; a box of sugar and a packet of biscuit were added; and a gentle little
rain of coins fell as though from Heaven.

Kodaks clicked, clergymen beamed, ladies said, "How sweetly picturesque--poor dears"; the Captain
murmured, "Damnedest scoundrels unhung--but can't leave 'em to starve"; the "poor dears" smiled
largely and ate wolfishly; Moussa Isa bled, and the great steamer resumed her way.

"Pat" Brighte (she was Cleopatra Diamond Brighte who married Colonel Dearman of the Gungapur
Volunteer Bines) found she had got a splendid snap-shot when her films were developed at Gungapur.
A little later she got another when the look-out saw, and a boat picked up, a man who was lying
in a little dug-out or toni. When able to speak, he told the serang[44] of the lascars that
he was the sole survivor of a bunder-boat which had turned turtle and sunk. He understood nothing
but Hindustani.... Miss Brighte pitied the poor wretch but thought he looked rather horrid....

  [44] Native boatswain.

The hearts of the castaways were filled with contentment as their stomachs were filled with
food, and so busily did they devote themselves to eating, drinking, and sleeping that they
forgot all about Moussa Isa beneath the palm-mats.

When they chanced upon him he was just alive, and his wound was closed. The attitude in which
he had been dumped down upon the cargo (the ostensible and upper strata thereof, consisting
of hides and salt, with a hint of ostrich-feathers, coffee, frankincense and myrrh) had favoured
his chance of recovery, for, thanks to a friendly bundle, his head was pressed forward to his
chest and the lips of the gaping wound in his throat were shut.

Moussa Isa was tougher than an Indian chicken.

Near Aden his proprietors were captured by an officious and unsympathetic police (Moussa was
sent to what he dreamed to be Heaven and later perceived to be a hospital) and while they went
to jail, a number of bristly-haired Teutonic gentlemen at the Freidrichstrasse, Arab gentlemen
at Muscat, and Afghan gentlemen at Cabul, were made to exercise the virtue of patience. So
the would-be murderers of John Robin Ross-Ellison Ilderim Dost Mahommed unintentionally saved
him from jail, but never received his acknowledgments....

Discharged from the hospital, Moussa became his own master, a gentleman at large, and, for
a time, prospered in the coal-trade.

He steered a coal-lighter that journeyed between the shore and the ships.

One day he received a blow, a curse, and an insult, from the maccudam or foreman of the gang
that worked in the boat which he steered. Neither blows nor curses were of any particular account
to Moussa, but this man Sulemani, a nondescript creature of no particular race, and only a
man in the sense that he was not a woman nor a quadruped, had called him "Hubshi" Woolly One.
Had called Moussa Isa of the Somal a Hubshi, as though he had been a common black nigger. And,
of course, it was intentional, for even this eater of dogs and swine and lizards knew the great
noble, civilized and cultured Somal, Galla, Afar and Abyssinian people from niggers. Even an
English hide-and-head-buying tripper and soi-disant big-game hunter knew a Zulu from a Hottentot,
a Masai from a Wazarambo, and a Somali from a Nigger!

The only question was as to how the scoundrel should be killed, for he was large and strong,
and never far from a shovel, crow-bar, boat-hook or some weapon. Not much hope of being able
to fasten on his throat like a young leopard on a dibatag, kudu or impala buck.

As Moussa sat behind him at the tiller, he would regard the villain's neck with interest, his
fat neck, just below and behind the big ear.

If he only had a knife--such as the beauty that once cut his throat--or even a scrap of iron
or of really hard pointed wood, honour could be satisfied and a stain removed from the scutcheon
of Moussa Isa of the Somal race, insulted.

One lucky night he got his next scar, the fine one that ornamented his cheek-bone, and a really
serviceable weapon of offence against the offender Sulemani.

On this auspicious night, a festive English sailor flung a bottle at him, in merry sport, as
he passed beneath the verandah of the temple of Venus and Bacchus in which the sailor sprawled.
It struck him in the face, broke against his cheek-bone, and provided him with a new scar and
a serviceable weapon, a dagger, convenient to handle and deadly to slay. The bottle-neck was
a perfect hilt and the long tapering needle-pointed spire of glass projecting from it was a
perfect blade--rightly used, of course. Only a fool would attempt a heart-stab with such a
dagger, as it would shatter on the ribs, leaving the fool to pay for his folly. But the neck-stab--for
the big blood-vessels--oho! And Moussa Isa licked his chops just as he had seen the black-maned
lion do in his own fatherland; just as did the lion from whom the fair Sheikh had saved him.

Toward the sailor, Moussa felt no resentment for the assault that had laid him bleeding in
the gutter. Had he called him "Hubshi" it would have been a different matter--perhaps very
different for the sailor. Moussa Isa regarded curses, cruelties, blows, wounds, attempts at
murder, as mere natural manifestations of the attitude of their originators, and part of the
inevitable scheme of things. Insults to his personal and racial Pride were in another category
altogether.

Yes--the bottle must have been thus usefully broken by the hand of the Supreme Deity himself,
prompted by Moussa's own particular and private kismet, to provide Moussa with the means of
doing his duty by himself and his race, in the matter of the dog who had likened a long-haired,
ringletty-haired aquiline-nosed, thin-lipped son of the Somals to a Woolly One--a black beast
of the jungle!

Our young friend had never heard of the historical glass-bladed daggers of the bravos of Venice,
but he saw at a glance, as he rose to his feet and stared at the bottle, that he could do his
business (and that of the foreman) with the fortunately--shaped fragment, and eke leave the
point of the weapon in the wound for future complications if the blow failed of immediate fatal
effect.

He bided his time....

One black night Moussa Isa sat on the stern of his barge holding to a rope beneath the high
wall of the side of the P. & O. liner, Persia, in shadow and darkness undispelled by the flickering
flare of a brazier of burning fuel, designed to illuminate the path of panting, sweating, coal-laden
coolies up and down narrow bending planks, laid from the lighter to the gloomy hole in the
ship's side.

The hot, still air was thick with coal-dust and the harmless necessary howls of the hundreds
of sons of Ham, toiling at high pressure.

In the centre of a vast, silent circle of mysterious lamp-spangled sea and shore, and of star-spangled
sky, this spot was Inferno, an offence to the brooding still immensity.

And suddenly Moussa Isa was dimly conscious of his enemy, of him who had insulted the great
Somal race and Moussa Isa. On the broad edge of the big barge Sulemani stood, before, and a
foot below him, in the darkness, yelling directions, threats, promises and encouragement to
his gang. If only there had been a moon or light by which he could see to strike! Suddenly
the edge of a beam of yellow light from a port-hole struck upon Sulemani's neck, illuminating
it below and behind his ear. Mrs. "Pat" Dearman, homeward bound, had just entered her cabin
and switched on the electric light. (When last she passed Aden she had been Miss Cleopatra
Diamond Brighte, bound for Gungapur and the bungalow of her brother.)

It was Mrs. Pat Dearman's habit to read a portion of the Scriptures nightly, ere retiring to
rest, for she was a Good Woman and considered the practice to be not only a mark of, but essential
to, goodness.

Doubtless the Powers of Evil smiled sardonically when they noted that the light which she evoked
for her pious exercise lit the hand of Moussa Isa to murder, providing opportunity. Moussa
Isa weighed chances and considered. He did not want to bungle it and lose his revenge and his
life too. Would he be seen if he struck now? The light fell on the very spot for the true infallible
death-stroke. Should he strike now, here, in the midst of the yelling mob?

Rising silently, Moussa drew his dagger of glass from beneath his only garment, aimed at the
patch of light upon the fat neck, and struck. Sulemani lurched, collapsed, and fell between
the lighter and the ship without an audible sound in that dim pandemonium.

Even as the "dagger" touched flesh, the light was quenched, Mrs. Pat Dearman having realized
that the stuffy, hot cabin was positively uninhabitable until the port-hole could be opened,
after coaling operations were completed.

Moussa Isa reseated himself, grabbed the rope again, and with clear conscience, duty done,
calmly awaited that which might follow.

Nothing followed. None had seen the deed, consummated in unrelieved gloom; the light had failed
most timely....

The next person who mortally affronted Moussa Isa, committing the unpardonable sin, was a grievously
fat, foolish Indian Mohammedan youth whose father supported four wives, five sons, six daughters
and himself in idleness and an Aden shop.

It was a remarkably idle and unobtrusive shop and yet money flowed into it without stint, mysteriously
and unostentatiously, the conduits of its flow being certain modest and retiring Arab visitors
in long brown or white haiks, with check cotton head-dresses girt with ropes of camel-hair,
who collogued with the honest tradesman and departed as silently and unobtrusively as they came....

One of them, strangely enough, ejaculated "Himmel" and "Donnerwetter" as often as "Bismillah"
and "Inshallah" when he swore.

The very fat son of this secretive house in an evil hour one inauspicious evening took it upon
him to revile and abuse his father's servant, one Moussa Isa, an African boy, as he performed
divers domestic duties in the exiguous "compound" of the dwelling-place and refused to do the
fat youth's behest ere completing them.

"Haste thee at once to the bazaar, thou dog," screamed the fat youth.

"Later on," replied Moussa Isa, using the words that express the general attitude of the East.

"Now, dog. Now, Hubshi, or I will beat thee."

"I will kill you," replied Moussa Isa, and again bided his time.

"Hubshi, Hubshi, Hubshi," goaded the misguided fat one.

His Kismet led the youth, some weeks later, to lay him down and sleep in the shade of the house
upon some broad flagstones. Here Moussa found him and regretted the loss of his glass-dagger,--last
seen in the neck of a foreman of coal-coolies toppling into the dark void between a barge and
a ship,--but remembered a big heavy stone used to facilitate the scaling of the compound wall.

Staggering with it to the spot where the fat youth lay slumbering peacefully, Moussa Isa, in
the sight of all men (who happened to be looking), dashed it upon his fez-adorned head, and
established the hitherto disputable fact that the fat youth had brains.

To the Magistrate, Moussa Isa offered neither excuse nor prayer. Explanation he vouchsafed
in the words:--

"He called me, Moussa Isa of the Somali, a Hubshi!"

Being of tender years and of insignificant stature he was condemned to flogging and seven years
in a Reformatory School. He was too juvenile for the Aden Jail. The Reformatory School nearest
to Aden is at Duri in India, and thither, in spite of earnest prayers that he might go to hard
labour in Aden Jail like a man and a Somali, was Moussa Isa duly transported and therein incarcerated.

At the Duri Reformatory School, Moussa Isa was profoundly miserable, most unhappy, and deeply
depressed by a sense of the very cruellest injustice.

For here they simply did not know the difference between a Somal and a woolly-haired dog of
a negro. They honestly did not know that there was a difference. To them, a clicking Bushman
was as a Nubian, an earth-eating Kattia as a Kabyle, a face-cicatrized, tooth-sharpened cannibal
of the Aruwimi as a Danakil,--a Hubshi as a Somal. They simply did not know. To them all Africans
were Hubshis (just as to an English M.P. all the three or four hundred millions of Indians
are Bengali babus). They meant no insult; they knew no better. All Africans were black niggers
and every soul in the place, from Brahmin to Untouchable, looked down upon the African, the
Black Man, the Nigger, the Cannibal, the Hubshi, sent from Africa to defile their Reformatory
and destroy their caste.

Here, the proud self-respecting Moussa, jealous champion of the honour of his, to him, high
and noble race, found himself a god-send to the Out-castes, the Untouchables, the Depressed
Classes, Mangs, Mahars, and Sudras,--they whose touch, nay the touch of whose very shadow,
is defilement! For, at last, they, too, had some one to look down upon, to despise, to insult.
After being the recipients-of-contempt as naturally and ordainedly as they were breathers-of-air,
they at last could apply a salve, and pass on to another the utter contempt and loathing which
they themselves received and accepted from the Brahmins and all those of Caste. They had found
one lower than themselves. Moussa Isa of the Somali was the out-cast of out-casts, the pariah
of pariahs, prohibited from touching the untouchables, one of a class depressed below the depressed
classes--in short a Hubshi!

Even a broad-nosed, foreheadless, blubber--lipped aborigine from the hill-jungles objected
to his presence!

In the small, self-contained, self-supporting world of the Reformatory, it was Moussa Isa against
the World. And against the World he stood up.

It had to learn the difference between a Somali and a Hubshi at any cost--the cost of Moussa's
life included.

What added to the sorrow of the situation was the realization of how charming and desirable
a retreat the place was in itself,--apart from its ignorant and stupid inhabitants.

Expecting a kind of torture-house wherein he would be starved, sweated, thrashed by brutal
kourbash-wielding overseers, he found the most palatial and comfortable of clubs, a place of
perfect peace, safety, and ease, where one was kindly treated by those in authority, sumptuously
fed, luxuriously lodged, and provided with pleasant occupation, attractive amusements and reasonable
leisure.

He had always heard and believed that the English were mad, and now he knew it.

As a punishment for murder he had got a birching that merely tickled him, and a free ticket
to seven years' board, lodging, clothing, lighting, medical care, instruction and diversion!

Wow!

Were it not for the presence of the insolent, ignorant, untravelled, inexperienced, soft-living,
lily-livered dogs of inhabitants, the place was the Earthly Paradise. They were the crocodile
in the ointment.

A young Brahmin, son of a well-paid Government servant, and incarcerated for forgery and theft,
was his most annoying persecutor. He was at great pains to expectorate and murmur "Hubshi"
in accents of abhorrent contempt, whenever Moussa Isa chanced between the wind and his nobility.

The first time, Moussa replied with pitying magnanimity and all reasonableness:--

"I am not a Hubshi, but a Somali, which is quite different--even as a lion is different from
a jackal or a man from an ape".

To which the Brahmin replied but:--

"Hubshi," and pointed out that there was danger of Moussa Isa's shadow touching him, if Moussa
were not careful.

"I must kill you if you call me Hubshi, understanding that I am of the Somals," said Moussa Isa.

"Hubshi," would the Brahmin reply and loudly bewail his evil Luck which had put him in the
power of the accursed Feringhi Government--a Government that compelled a Brahmin to breathe
the same air as a filthy negro dog, a Woolly One of Africa, barely human and most untouchable,
a living Contamination ... and Moussa cast about for a weapon.

His first opportunity arose when he found the Brahmin, who was in the book-binding and compositor
department, working one day in the same gardening-gang with himself.

He had but a watering-can by way of offensive weapon, but good play can be made with a big
iron watering-can wielded in the right spirit and the right hand.

Master Brahmin was feebly tapping the earth with a kind of single-headed pick, and watching
him, Moussa Isa saw that, in a quarter of an hour or so, he might plausibly and legitimately
pass within a yard or two of this his enemy, as he went to and fro between the water-tap and
the strip of flower-border that he was sprinkling.... Would they hang him if he killed the
Brahmin, or would they feebly flog him again and give him a longer sentence (that he be supported,
fed, lodged, clothed and cared for) than the present seven years?

There was no foretelling what the mad English would do. Sometimes they acquitted a criminal
and gave him money and education, and sometimes they sent him to far distant islands in the
South and there housed and fed him free, for life; and sometimes they killed him at the end
of a rope.

Doubtless Allah smote the English mad to prevent them from stealing the whole world.... If
they were not mad they would do so and enslave all other races--except their conquerors, the
Dervishes, of course.... It was like the lying hypocrites to call the Great Mullah "the Mad
Mullah" knowing themselves to be mad, and being afraid of their victorious enemy who had driven
them out of Somaliland to the coast forts....

Oh, if they would only treat him, Moussa Isa, as an adult, and send him to the Aden Jail to
hard labour. There folk knew a Somali from a Hubshi; a gentleman of Afar and Galla stock, of
Arab blood, Moslem tenets, and Caucasian descent, from a common nigger, a low black Ethiopian,
an eater of men and insects, a worshipper of idols and ju-ju.

In Aden, men knew a Somali from a Hubshi as surely as they knew an Emir from a mere Englishman.

Here, in benighted, ignorant, savage India, the Dark Continent indeed, men knew not what a
Somali was, likened him to a Negro, ranked him lower than a Hindu even--called him a Hubshi
in insolent ignorance. If only the beautiful Reformatory were in Berbera, and tenanted by Africans.

Better Aden Jail a thousand times than Duri Reformatory.

What a splendid joke if the dog of a Brahmin who persistently insulted him--even after he had
been shown his error and ignorance--should be the unwitting means of his return to Aden--where
a Somali gentleman is recognized. There is no harm about a Jail as such. Far from it. A jail
is a wise man's paradise provided by fools. You have excellent and plentiful food, a roof against
the sun, unfailing water supply, clothing, interesting occupation, and safety--protection from
your enemies. No man harries you, you are not chained, you are not tortured; you have all that
heart can desire. Freedom?... What is Freedom? Freedom to die of thirst in the desert? Freedom
to be disembowelled by the Great Mullah? Freedom to be sold as a slave into Arabia or Persia?
Freedom to be the unfed, unpaid, well-beaten property of gun-runners in the Gulf, or of Arab
safari ruffians and "black-ivory" men? Freedom to be left to the hyaena when you broke down
on the march? Freedom to die of starvation when you fell sick and could not carry coal? Thanks.

If the mad English provided beautiful refuges, and made the commission of certain crimes the
requisite qualification for admission, let wise men qualify.

Take this Reformatory--where else could a little Somali boy get such safety, peace, food, and
sumptuous luxury; everything the heart could desire, in return for doing a little gardening?
Even a house to himself as though he were the honoured, favourite son of some chief.

To Moussa Isa, the dark and dingy cell with its bare stone walls, mud floor, grated aperture
and iron door was a fine safe house; its iron bed-frame with cotton-rug-covered laths and stony
pillow, a piece of wanton luxury; its shelf, stool and utensils, prideful wealth. If only the
place were in Africa or Aden! Well, Aden Jail would do, and if the Brahmin's death led to his
being sent there as a serious and respectable murderer, it would be a real case of two enemies
on one spear--an insult avenged and a most desired re-patriation achieved.

That would be subtilty,--at once washing out the insult in the Brahmin's blood and getting
sent whither his heart turned so constantly and fondly. They had treated him as a juvenile
offender because he was so small and young, and because the killing of the fat Mussulman was
his first offence, as they supposed. Surely they would recognize that he was a man when he
had killed his second enemy--especially if he told them about Sulemani. What in the name of
Allah did they want, to constitute a real sound criminal, fit for Aden Jail, if three murders
were not enough? Well, he would go on killing until they did have enough, and were obliged
to send him to Aden Jail. There he would behave beautifully and kill nobody until they wanted
to turn him out to starve. Then, since murder was the requisite qualification, he would murder
to admiration. He knew they could not send him over the way to the Duri Jail, since he belonged
to Aden, had been convicted there, and only sent to the Duri Reformatory because Aden boasted
no such institution....

Yes. The Brahmin's corpse should be the stepping-stone to higher things and the place where
people knew a Somali from a Negro.

If only he were in the carpentry department with Master Brahmin, where there were axes, hammers,
chisels, knives, saws, and various pointed instruments. Fancy teaching the young gentleman
manners and ethnology with an axe! However, after one or two more journeys between the tap
and the flower-bed, he would pass within striking-distance of the dog as he worked his slow
way along the tract of earth he was supposed to be digging up with the silly short-handled pick.

Should he try and seize the pick and give him one on the temple with it? No, the Brahmin would
scream and struggle and the overseer would be on Moussa Isa in a single bound. He must strike
a sudden blow in the act of passing.

A few more journeys to the water-tap....

Now! "Hubshi," eh?

Halting beside the crouching Brahmin youth, Moussa Isa swung up the heavy watering-can by the
spout and aimed a blow with all his strength at the side of his enemy's head. He designed to
bring the sharp strong rim of the base behind the ear with the first blow, on the temple with
the second, and just anywhere thereafter, if time permitted of a thereafter.

But the aggravating creature tossed his head as Moussa, with a grunt of energy, brought the
vessel down, and the rim merely struck the top of the shaven skull. Another--harder. Another--with
frenzied strength and the force of long-suppressed rage and sense of wrong.

And then Moussa was knocked head over heels and sat upon by the overseer in charge of the garden-gang,
while the Brahmin twitched convulsively on the ground. He was by no means dead, however, and
the sole immediate results, to Moussa, were penal diet, solitary confinement in his palatial
cell, a severe sentence of corn-grinding with the heavy quern, and most joyous recollections
of the sound of the water-can on the pate of the foe.

"I have still to kill you, of course," he whispered to his victim, the next time they met,
and the Brahmin went in terror of his life. He was a very clever young person and had passed
an astounding number of examinations in the course of his brief career. But he was not courageous,
and his "education" had given him skill in nothing practical, except in penmanship, which skill
he had devoted to forgery.

"Why did you violently commit this dastardish deed, and assault the harmless peaceful Brahmin?"
asked the Superintendent, a worthy and voluble babu, and then translated the question into
debased Hindustani.

"He called me Hubshi, and I will kill him," replied Moussa.

"Oho! and you kill everyone who calls you Hubshi, do you, Master African?"

"I do. I wish to go to Aden Jail for attempting murder. It will be murder if I am kept here
where none knows a man from a dog."

"Oho! And you would kill even me, I suppose, if I called you Hubshi."

"Of course! I will kill you in any case if I am not sent to Aden Jail."

The babu decided that it was high time for some other institution to shelter this touchy and
truculent person, and that he would lay the case before the next weekly Visitor and ask for
it to be submitted to the Committee at their ensuing monthly meeting.

The Visitor of the week happened to be the Educational Inspector. "Wants to leave India, does
he?" said the Inspector, looking Moussa over as he heard the statement of the Superintendent.
"I admire his taste. India is a magnificent country to leave."

The Educational Inspector, a very keen, thoughtful and competent educationist, was a disappointed
man, like so many of his Service. He felt that he had, for quarter of a century, strenuously
woven ropes of sand. When his liver was particularly sluggish he felt that for quarter of a
century he had worked industriously, not at a useless thing, but at an evil thing--a terrible
belief.

Moreover, after quarter of a century of faithful labour and strict economy, he found himself
with a load of debt, broken health, and a cheaply educated family of boys and girls to whom
he was a complete stranger--merely the man who found the money and sent it Home, visiting them
from time to time at intervals of four or five years. India had killed his wife, and broken him.

He had had what seemed to him to be bitter experience also. An individual, notoriously slack
and incompetent, ten years his junior, had been promoted over his head, because he was somebody's
cousin and the kind of fatuous ass that only labours industriously in drawing-rooms and at
functions, recuperating by slacking idly in offices and at duties--a paltry but paying game
much practised by a very small class in India.

Another individual, by reason of his having come to India two boats earlier than the Inspector,
drew Rs. 500 a month more than he did, this being the Senior Inspector's Allowance. That he
was reported on as lazy, eccentric, and irregular, made no difference to the fact that he was
a fortnight senior to, and therefore worth Rs. 500 a month more than, the next man. The recipient
regarded the extra trifle (£400 a year) as his bare right and merest due. The Inspector regarded
it as an infamous piece of injustice and folly that for fifteen years the whole of this sum
should go to a lazy fool because he happened to set sail from England on a certain date, and
not a fortnight later. So he loathed and detested India where he had had bad luck, bad health
and what he considered bad treatment, and sympathized with the desire of Moussa Isa.

"Why do you want to go back to Aden?" he inquired in the lingua franca of the Indian Empire,
of Moussa whose heart beat high with hope.

"Because here, where there are no lions, wolves think a lion is a dog; here where there are
no men, asses think a man is a monkey. I am a Somal, and these ignorant camels think I am a
negro--a filthy Hubshi."

"And you tried to kill another boy because he called you 'Hubshi,' eh?"

"I did, Sahib, and I will kill him yet if I be not sent to Aden. If that fail I will kill myself
also."

"Stout fella," commented the Inspector in his own vernacular, and added, musing aloud:--

"You'll come to the gallows through possessing pride, self-respect and determination, my lad.
You're behind the times--or rather you maintain a spirit for which Civilization has no use.
You must return to the Wilds of the Earth or else you must be content to become good, grubby,
and grey, dull and dejected, sober and sorrowful, respectable and unenterprising--like me;
and you must cultivate fat, propriety, smugness and the Dead Level.... What, you young Devil!
You'd have self-respect and pride, would you; be quick upon the point of honour, eh? revive
the duello, what? Get thee to a--er--less civilized and respectable age or place ... in other
words, Mr. Toshiwalla, bring the case before the Committee of Visitors. I'll put up a note
to the effect that he had better be sent back to Aden. This is a Reformatory, and there's nothing
very reformatory about keeping him to plan murder and suicide because he has been (quite unjustifiably)
transported as well as flogged and imprisoned. Yes, we'll consider the case. Meanwhile, keep
a sharp eye on him--and give him all the corn-grinding he can do. Sweat the Original Sin out
of him ... and see he does not secrete any kind of weapon."

Accordingly was Moussa segregated, and to the base women's-work of corn-grinding in the cook-house,
wholly relegated. It was hard, soul-breaking work, ignoble and degrading, but he drew two crumbs
of comfort from the bread of affliction. He was developing his arm-muscles and he was literally
watering the said bread of affliction with the sweat of labour. As the heavy drops trickled
from chin and nose into the meal around the grindstone, it pleased Moussa Isa to reflect that
his enemy should eat of it. Since the shadow of Moussa was pollution to these travesties of
men and warriors, let them have a little concrete pollution also. But in the cook-house, while
arm and soul wearied together, one heavy day of copper sky and brazen earth, first eye and
then foot, fell upon a piece of tin, the lid of some empty milk-tin or like vessel. The prehensile
toes gathered in the trove, the foot gently rose and the fingers of the pendant left hand secured
the disc, while the body swayed with the strenuous circlings of the right hand chat revolved
the heavy upper millstone.

That night, immediately after being locked in his cell, that there might be the fullest time
for bleeding to death, he slashed and slashed while strength lasted at wrist and abdomen--but
without succeeding in penetrating the abdominal wall and reaching the viscera.

This effected his transfer to the Reformatory hospital and underlined the remark of the Inspector
in the Visitors' Book to the effect that one Moussa Isa would commit suicide or murder, if
kept at Duri, and would certainly not be "reformed" in any way. In hospital, Major Jackson
of the Royal Army Medical Corps, a Visitor of the Duri Jail, paying his periodical visits,
grew interested in the sturdy bright boy and soon came to like him for his directness, cheery
courage, and refreshing views. When the boy was convalescent he took him on the surrounding
Duri golf-links as his caddie in his endless games with his poor friend Sergeant-Major Lawrence-Smith,
ex-gentleman.

Moussa was grateful and, fingering the scar on his throat, likened Major Jackson to his hero,
the fair Sheikh who had saved him from the lion and had lost his life through intervening on
Moussa's behalf in the boat. But he was not mad like these English. He would not, with infinite
earnestness, seriousness and mingled joy at success and grief at failure, have pursued a little
white ball with a stick, mile after mile, knocking it with infinite precautions, every now
and then, into a little hole, and taking it out again.

No, his idea of sport across country with an iron-shod stick would rather have been lion-hunting
with an assegai (yet, curiously enough, one, Robin Ross-Ellison, lived to play more than one
game of golf with Major Jackson on these same Duri Links). To see this adult white man behaving
so, coram publico, made Moussa bitterly ashamed for him.

And, as the sun set, Moussa Isa earned a sharp rebuke for inattentive slacking, as he stood
sighing his soul to where it sank in the West over Aden and Somaliland.... Wait till his chance
of escape arrived; he would journey straight for the sunset, day after day, until he reached
a sea-shore. There he would steal a canoe and paddle and paddle straight for the sunset, day
after day, until he reached a sea-shore again. That would be Africa or Arabia, and Moussa Isa
would be where a Somal is known from a Hubshi.... Should he make a bolt for it now? No, too
weak, and not fair to this kind Sahib who had healed him and sympathized with him in the matter
of the ignorance and impudence of those who misnamed a son of the Somals.... In due course,
the Committee of Visitors met at the Reformatory one morning, and found on the agenda paper
inter alia the case of Moussa Isa, a murderer from Aden, his attempt at murder and suicide,
and his prayer to be sent to Aden Jail.

On the Committee were the Director of Public Instruction, the Collector, the Executive Engineer,
the Superintendent of Duri Jail, the Educational Inspector, the Cantonment Magistrate, Major
Jackson of the Royal Army Medical Corps, and a number of Indian gentlemen. To the Chairman's
inquiries Moussa Isa made the usual replies. He had been mortally affronted and had endeavoured
to avenge the insult. He had tried to do his duty to himself--and to his enemy. He had been
put to base women's-work as a punishment for defending his honour and he had tried to take
his life in despair. Was there no justice in British lands? What would the Sahib himself do
if his honour were assailed? If one rose up and insulted him and his race? Called him baboon,
born of baboons, for example? Or had the Sahib no honour? Why should he have been transported
when he was not sentenced to transportation? What had he done but defend his honour and avenge
insults? Unless he were now tried for murder and suicide, and sentenced to hard labour in Aden
Jail, he would go on murdering until they did send him there. If they said, "Well, you shan't
go there, whatever you do," he would kill himself. If he could get no sort of weapon he would
starve himself (he did not in his ignorance quote the gentle and joyous Pankhurst family) or
hold his breath. So they had better send him, and that was all he had got to say about it.

"Send him for trial before the City Magistrate and recommend that he go to Aden Jail at once,
before he hurts somebody else," said the native members of the Committee. "Why should we be
troubled with the off-scourings of Aden?"

"Certainly not," opined the Collector of Duri. A pretty state of affairs if every criminal
were to be allowed to select his own place of punishment, and to terrorize any penitentiary
that had the misfortune to lack favour in his sight. Let the boy be well flogged for the assault
and attempted suicide, and then let him rejoin the ordinary gangs and classes. It was the Superintendent's
duty to watch his charges and keep discipline in what was, after all, a school.

"Sir, he is one violent and dangerous character and will assault the peaceful and mild. Yea--he
may even attack me," objected the babu.

"Are we to understand that you admit your inability to maintain order in this Reformatory?"
inquired the Director of Public Instruction from the Chair.

Anything but that. They were to understand, on the contrary, that the babu was respectfully
a most unprecedented disciplinarian.

"You don't expect cock angels in a Reformatory, y' know," said the engineer, suddenly awaking
to light a fat black cheroot. "Got to use the--ah--strong hand;--on their--ah--you know," and
he resumed his slumbers, puffing mechanically and unconsciously at his cheroot.

So Moussa Isa was flogged and sent back to gardening, lessons and drawing.

Yes--the Somali was taught drawing. Not mere utilitarian drawing-to-scale and making plans
and elevations, but "freehand"-drawing, the reproducing of meaningless twirly curves and twiddly
twists from symmetrical conventional "copies". He copied copies and drew lines--but never copied
things, nor drew things. In time he could, with infinite labour, produce a copy of a flat "copy"
that a really observant eye could identify with the original, but had you asked him to draw
his foot or the door of the room, his desk, his watering-can or book, he would probably have
replied, "They are not drawing-copies," and would have laughed at your absurd joke. No, he
was not taught to draw things, nor to give expression to impression.

And he had a special warder all to himself, who watched him as a cat watches a mouse. However,
warders cannot prevent looks and smiles, and whenever Moussa Isa saw the Brahmin youth, he
gave a peculiar look and a meaning smile. It was borne in upon the clever young man that the
Hubshi looked at his neck, below his ear, when he smiled that dreadful smile.

Sometimes a significant gesture accompanied the meaning smile. For Moussa Isa had decided,
upon the rejection of his prayer by the Committee, to wait until he was a little older and
bigger, more like a proper criminal and less of a wretched little "juvenile offender," and
then to qualify, by murder, for the Aden Jail--with the unoffered help of the Brahmin boy.

Allah would vouchsafe opportunity, and when he did so, Moussa Isa, his servant, would seize
it. Doubtless it would come as soon as he was big enough to receive the privileges of an adult
and serious criminal. Anyhow, the insult would be properly punished and the honour of the Somal
race avenged....

Came the day when certain of the sinful inhabitants of the Duri Reformatory were to be conducted
to a neighbouring Government High School, a centre for the official Drawing Examinations for
the district, there to sit and be examined in the gentle art of Art.

To this end they had been trained in the copying of lines and in the painting of areas of conventional
shape, not that they might be made to observe natural form, express themselves in reproduction,
render the inner outer, originate, articulate ... but that they might pass an examination in
copying unnatural things in impossible colours. Thus it came to pass that, in the big hall
of this school, divers of the Reformed found themselves copying, and colouring the copy of,
a curious picture pinned to a blackboard--the picture of a floral wonder unknown to Botany,
possessed of delicate mauve leaves, blue-veined, shaped some like the oak-leaf and some like
the ivy; of long slender blades like those of the iris, but of tenderest pink; of beautiful
and profusely chromatic blossoms, reminding one now of the orchid, now of the sunflower and
anon of the forget-me-not; and likewise of clustering fulgent fruit.

And at the back of all these budding artists and blossoming jail-birds, and in the same small
desk sat the Brahmin youth and--Oh Merciful Allah!--Moussa Isa, Somali.

The native gentleman in charge of the party from the Duri Reformatory had duly escorted his
charges into the hall, handed them over to Mr. Edward Jones, the Head of the High School, and
been requested to wait outside with similar custodians of parties. (Mr. Edward Jones had known
very strange things to happen in Examination Halls to which the friends and supporters of candidates
had access during the examination.)

To Mr. Edward Jones the thus deserted Brahmin boy made frantic and piteous appeal.

"Oh, Sir," prayed he, "let me sit somewhere else and not beside this African."

"You'll stay where you are," replied Mr. Edward Jones, suspicious of the appeal and the appellant.
If the fat glib youth objected to the African on principle, Mr. Edward Jones would be glad,
metaphorically speaking, to rub his Brahminical nose in it. If this were not his reason, it
was, doubtless, one even less creditable. Mr. Edward Jones had been in India long enough to
learn to look very carefully for the motive.

Moussa Isa licked his chops once again, and, as Mr. Jones turned away, the unhappy Brahmin
cried in his anguish of soul:--

"Oh, Sir! Watch this African carefully."

"All will be watched carefully," was the suspicious and cold reply.

Moussa smiled broadly upon his erstwhile contemptuous and insulting enemy, and began to consider
the possibilities of a long and well-pointed lead-pencil as a means of vengeance. Pencils were
intended for marking fair surfaces--might one not be used on this occasion for the cleaning
of a sullied surface, that of a besmirched honour?

One insulter of the Somal race had died by the stab of a piece of broken bottle. Might not
another die by the stab of a lead-pencil?

Doubtful. Very risky. The stabbing and piercing potentialities of a lead pencil are not yet
properly investigated, tabulated, established and known. It would be a pity to do small damage
and incur a heavy corn-grinding punishment. He might never get another chance of vengeance
either, if he bungled this one.

Well, there were three hours in which to decide ... and Moussa Isa commenced to draw, pausing,
from time to time, to smile meaningly at the Brahmin, and to lick his chops suggestively. Anon
he rested from his highly uninteresting and valueless labours, laid his pencil on the desk,
and gazed around in search of inspiration in the matter of the best method of dealing with
his enemy.

His eye fell upon a picture of a lion that ornamented the wall of the hall; he stiffened like
a pointer and fingered some scars on his right arm. He had never seen a picture of a lion before
and, for a fraction of a second, he was shocked and alarmed--and then, while his body sat in
an Indian High School hall, his spirit flew to an East African desert, and there sojourned awhile.

Moussa Isa was again the slave of an ivory-poaching, hide-poaching, specimen-poaching, slave-dealing
gang of Arabs, Negroes, and Portuguese half-castes, led by a white man of the Teutonic persuasion.
He could feel the smiting heat, see the scrub, jungle, and sand shimmering and dancing in the
heat haze. He could see the line of porters, bales on heads, the Arabs on horseback, the white
man in a litter swinging from a long bamboo pole beneath which half a dozen Swahili loped along.
He could see the velvet star-gemmed night and the camp-fires, smell the smoke and the savoury
odours of the cooking, hear the sudden shrieks and yells that followed the roar of the springing
lion, feel the crushing crunch of its great teeth in his arm as it seized him from beside the
nearest fire and stood over him.... Yes, that was the night when the fair Sheikh from the North
had showed the mettle of his pastures and bound Moussa Isa to him for ever in the bonds of
worshipping gratitude and love. For, while others shrieked, yelled, fled, flung burning brands
and spears, or fired hasty, unaimed, ineffectual shots, the fair Sheikh from the North had
sprung at the lion as it stood over Moussa Isa and driven his knife into its eye, and as it
smote him to the earth, buried its fangs in his shoulder and started to drag him away, had
stabbed upward between the ribs, giving it a second death-blow, transfixing its heart. Thus
it was he had earned the name by which he was known from Zanzibar to Berbera, "He-who-slays-lions-with-the-knife,"
had earned the envy and hatred of the fat white man and the Arabs, the boundless admiration
of the Swahili askaris, hunters and porters, and the deep dog-like affection of Moussa Isa....

And then Moussa's spirit returned to his body and he saw but the picture of a lion on a High
School wall. He commenced to draw again and suddenly had an inspiration. Deliberately he broke
the point of his pencil and, rising, marched up to the dais, whereon, at a table, sat Mr. Edward
Jones.

Mr. Edward Jones had been shot with bewildering suddenness from Cambridge quadrangles into
the Indian Educational Service. Of India he knew nothing, of education he knew less, but boldly
took it upon him to combine the two unknowns for the earning of his living. If wise and beneficent
men offered him a modest wage for becoming a professor and exponent of that which he did not
know, he had no objection to accepting it; but there were people who wondered why it should
be that, out of forty million English people, Mr. Edward Jones should be the chosen one to
represent England to the youth of Duri, and asked whether there were no keen, strictly conscientious,
sporting, strong Englishmen available; no enthusiastic educational experts left in all the
British Isles, that Mr. Edward Jones of all people had come to Duri?

"What do you want?" he asked (how he hated these poverty-stricken, smelly, ignoble creatures.
Why was he not a master at Eton, instead of at Duri High School. Why wouldn't somebody give
him a handsome income for looking handsome and standing around beautifully--like these aide-de-camp
Johnnies and "staff" people. Since there was nothing on earth he could do well, he ought to
have been provided with a job in which he could look well).

"May I borrow the Sahib's knife?" asked Moussa Isa, "I have broken my pencil and cannot draw."
Mr. Edward Jones picked up the penknife that lay on his desk, the cheap article of restricted
utility supplied to Government Offices by the Stationery Department, and handed it to Moussa
Isa. Even as he took it with respectful salaam, Moussa Isa summed up its possibilities. Blade
two inches long, sharp-pointed, handle six inches long, wooden; not a clasp knife, blade immovable
in handle. It would do--and he turned to go to his seat and presumably to sharpen his pencil.

Idly watching the boy and thinking of other things, Jones saw him try the point of the knife
on his thumb, walk up behind the other occupant of his desk, his Brahmin neighbour, seize that
neighbour by the hair, push his head sharp over on to the shoulder, and plunge the knife into
his neck; seat himself, and commence to draw with the unfortunate Brahmin's pencil.

Jones sprang to his feet and rushed to the spot, to find that he had not been dreaming. No--on
the back seat drooped a boy bleeding like a stuck pig and another industriously drawing, his
face illuminated by a smile of contentment.

Jones pressed his thumbs into the neck of the sufferer, as he called to an assistant-supervisor
to run to the hospital for Dr. Almeida, hoping to be able to close the severed jugular from
which welled an appalling stream of blood.

"It is quite useless, Sahib," observed Moussa, "nor can a doctor help. When one has got it
there, he may give his spear to his son and turn his face to the wall. That dog will never
say 'Hubshi' to a Somal again."

"Catch hold of that boy," said Mr. Edward Jones to another assistant-supervisor who clucked
around like a perturbed hen.

"Fear not, Sahib, I shall not escape. I go to Aden Jail," said Moussa cheerfully--but he pondered
the advisability of attempting escape from the Reformatory should he be sentenced to be hanged.
It had always seemed an impossibility, but it would be better to attempt the impossible than
to await the rope. But doubtless they would say he was too small and light to hang satisfactorily,
and would send him to Aden. Thanks, Master Brahmin, realize as you die that you have greatly
obliged your slayer....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Now you will most certainly be hanged to death by rope and I shall be rid of troublesome fellow,"
said the Superintendent to Moussa Isa when that murderous villain was temporarily handed over
to him by the police-sepoy to whom he had been committed by Mr. Jones.

"I have avenged my people and myself," replied Moussa Isa, "even as I said, I go to Aden Jail--where
there are men, and where a Somal is known from a Hubshi"

"You go to hang--across the road there at Duri Gaol," replied the babu, and earnestly hoped
to find himself a true prophet. But though the wish was father to the thought, the expression
thereof was but the wicked uncle, for it led to the undoing of the wish. So convinced and convincing
did the babu appear to Moussa Isa, that the latter decided to try his luck in the matter of
unauthorized departure from the Reformatory precincts. If they were going to hang him (for
defending and purging his private and racial honour), and not send him to Aden after all, he
might as well endeavour to go there at his own expense and independently. If he were caught
they could not do more than hang him; if he were not caught he would get out of this dark ignorant
land, if he had to walk for a year....

When he came to devote his mind to the matter of escape, Moussa Isa found it surprisingly easy.
A sudden dash from his cell as the door was incautiously opened that evening, a bound and scramble
into a tree, a leap to an out-house roof, another scramble, and a drop which would settle the
matter. If something broke he was done, if nothing broke he was within a few yards of six-foot-high
crops which extended to the confines of the jungle, wherein were neither police, telegraph
offices, railways, roads, nor other apparatus of the enemy. Nothing broke--Duri Reformatory
saw Moussa Isa no more. For a week he travelled only by night, and thereafter boldly by day,
getting lifts in bylegharies,[45] doing odd jobs, living as the crows and jackals live when
jobs were unavailable, receiving many a kindness from other wayfarers, especially those of
the poorer sort, but always faring onward to the West, ever onward to the setting sun, always
to the sea and Africa, until the wonderful and blessed day when he believed for a moment that
he was mad and that his eyes and brain were playing him tricks.... After months and months
of weary travel, always toward the setting sun, he had arrived one terrible evening of June
at a wide river and a marvellous bridge--a great bridge hung by mighty chains upon mightier
posts which stood up on either distant bank. It was a pukka road, a Grand Trunk Road suspended
in the air across a river well-nigh great as Father Nile himself.

  [45] Bullock carts.

On the banks of this river stood an ancient walled city of tall houses separated by narrow
streets, a city of smells and filth, wherein there were no Sahibs, few Hindus and many Mussulmans.
In a mud-floored miserable mussafarkhana,[46] without its gates, Moussa Isa slept, naked, hungry
and very sad--for he somehow seemed to have missed the sea. Surely if one kept on due westward
always to the setting sun, one reached the sea in time? The time was growing long, however,
and he was among a strange people, few of whom understood the Hindustani he had learnt at Duri.
Luckily they were largely Mussulmans. Should he abandon the setting sun and take to the river,
following it until it reached the sea? He could take ship then for Africa by creeping aboard
in the darkness, and hiding himself until the ship had started.... There might be no city at
the mouth of the river when he got there. It might never reach the sea. It might just vanish
into some desert like the Webi-Shebeyli in Somaliland. No, he would keep on toward the West,
crossing the great bridge in the morning. He did so, and turned aside to admire the railway-station
of the Cantonment on the other side of the river, to get a drink, and to see a train come in,
if happily such might occur.

  [46] Poor travellers' rest-house.

Ere he had finished rinsing his mouth and bathing his feet at the public water-standard on
the platform, the whistle of a distant train charmed his ears and he sat him down, delighted,
to enjoy the sights and sounds, the stir and bustle, of its arrival and departure. And so it
came about that certain passengers by this North West Frontier train were not a little intrigued
to notice a small and very black boy suddenly arise from beside the drinking-fountain and,
with a strange hoarse scream, fling himself at the feet of a young Englishman (who in Norfolk
jacket and white flannel trousers strolled up and down outside the first-class carriage in
which he was travelling to Kot Ghazi from Karachi), and with every sign of the wildest excitement
and joy embrace and kiss his boots....

Moussa Isa was convinced that he had gone mad and that his eyes and brain were playing him tricks.

Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison (also Mir Ilderim Dost Mahommed Mir Hafiz Ullah Khan when in other
dress and other places) was likewise more than a little surprised--and certainly a little moved,
at the sight of Moussa Isa and his wild demonstrations of uncontrollable joy.

"Well, I'm damned!" said he in the rôle of Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison. "Rum little devil.
Fancy your turning up here." Get into this train, and at Kot Ghazi follow me to a house." MR.
GROBBLE.

There was something very maidenly about the appearance of Augustus Clarence Percy Marmaduke
Grobble. One could not imagine him doing anything unfashionable, perspiry, rough or rude; nor
could one possibly imagine him doing anything ruthless, fine, terrible, strong or difficult.

One expected his hose to be of the same tint as his shirt and handkerchief, his dress-trousers
to be braided, his tie to be delicate and beautiful, his dainty shoes to be laced with black
silk ribbon,--but one would never expect him to go tiger-shooting, to ride a gay and giddy
young horse, to box, or to do his own cooking and washing in the desert or jungle.

Augustus had been at College during that bright brief period of the attempted apotheosis of
the dirty-minded little Decadent whose stock in trade was a few Aubrey Beardsley drawings,
a widow's-cruse-like bottle of Green Chartreuse, an Oscar Wilde book, some dubious blue china,
some floppy ties, an assortment of second-hand epigrams, scent and scented tobacco, a nil admirari
attitude and long weird hair.

Augustus had become a Decadent--a silly harmless conventionally-unconventional Decadent. But,
as Carey, a contemporary Rugger blood, coarsely remarked, he hadn't the innards to go far wrong.

It was part of his cheap and childish ritual as a Decadent to draw the curtains after breakfast,
light candles, place the flask of Green Chartreuse and a liqueur-glass on the table, drop one
drip of the liquid into the glass, burn a stinking pastille of incense, place a Birmingham
"god" or an opening lily before him, ruffle his hair, and sprawl on the sofa with a wicked
French novel he could not read--hoping for visitors and an audience.

If any fellow dropped in and, very naturally, exclaimed, "What the devil are you doing?" he
would reply:--

"Wha'? Oh, sunligh'? Very vulgar thing sunligh'. Art is always superior to Nature. You love
the garish day being a gross Philistine, wha'? Now I only live at night. Glorious wicked nigh'.
So I make my own nigh'. Wha'? Have some Green Chartreuse--only drink fit for a Hedonist. I
drink its colour and I taste its glorious greenness. Ichor and Nectar of Helicon and the Pierian
Spring. I loved a Wooman once, with eyes of just that glowing glorious green and a soul of
ruby red. I called her my Emerald-eyed, Ruby-souled Devil, and we drank together deep draughts
of the red red Wine of Life----"

Sometimes the visitor would say: "Look here, Grobb, you ought to be in the Zoo, you know. There's
a lot there like you, all in one big cage," or similar words of disapproval.

Sometimes a young fresher would be impressed, especially if he had been brought up by Aunts
in a Vicarage, and would also become a Decadent.

During vac. the Decadents would sometimes meet in Town, and See Life--a singularly uninteresting
and unattractive side of Life (much more like Death), and the better men among them--better
because of a little sincerity and pluck--would achieve a petty and rather sordid "adventure"
perhaps.

Augustus had no head for Mathematics and no gift for Languages, while his Classics had always
been a trifle more than shaky. History bored him--so he read Moral Philosophy.

There is a somewhat dull market for second-hand and third-class Moral Philosophy in England,
so Augustus took his to India. In the first college that he adorned his classes rapidly dwindled
to nothing, and the College Board dispensed with the services of Augustus, who passed on to
another College in another Province, leaving behind him an odour of moral dirtiness, debt,
and decadence. Quite genuine decadence this time, with nothing picturesque about it, involving
doctors' bills, alimony, and other the fine crops of wild-oat sowing.

At Gungapur he determined to "settle down," to "turn over a new leaf," and laid a good space
of paving-stone upon his road to reward.

He gave up the morning nip, docked the number of cocktails, went to bed before two, took a
little gentle exercise, met Mrs. Pat Dearman--and (like Mr. Robin Ross-Ellison, General Miltiades
Murger and many another) succumbed at once.

Mrs. Pat Dearman had come to India (as Miss Cleopatra Diamond Brighte) to see her brother,
Dickie Honor Brighte, at Gungapur, and much interested to see, also, a Mr. Dearman whom, in
his letters to her, Dickie had described as "a jolly old buster, simply full of money, and
fairly spoiling for a wife to help him blew it in." She had not only seen him but had, as she
wrote to acidulous Auntie Priscilla at the Vicarage, "actually married him after a week's acquaintance--fancy!--the
last thing in the world she had ever supposed ... etc." (Auntie Priscilla had smiled in her
peculiarly unpleasant way as the artless letter enlarged upon the strangeness of her ingenuous
niece's marrying the rich man about whom her innocent-minded brother had written so much.)

Having thoroughly enjoyed a most expensive and lavish honeymoon, Mrs. Pat Dearman had settled
down to make her good husband happy, to have a good time and to do any amount of Good to other
people--especially to young men--who have so many temptations, are so thoughtless, and who
easily become the prey of such dreadful people and such dreadful habits.

Now it is to be borne in mind that Mrs. Dearman's Good Time was marred to some extent by her
unreasoning dislike of all Indians, a dislike which grew into a loathing hatred, born and bred
of her ignorance of the language, customs, beliefs and ideals of the people among whom she
lived, and from whom her husband's great wealth sprang.

To Augustus--fresh from very gilded gold, painted lilies and highly perfumed violets--she seemed
a vision of delight, a blessed damozel, a living Salvation.

"Incedit dea aperta," he murmured to himself, and wondered whether he had got the quotation
right. Being a weak young gentleman, he straightway yearned to lead a Beautiful Life so as
to be worthy to live in the same world with her, and did it--for a little while. He became
a teetotaller, he went to bed at ten and rose at five--going forth into the innocent pure morning
and hugging his new Goodness to his soul as he composed odes and sonnets to Mrs. Pat Dearman.
So far so excellent--but in Augustus was no depth of earth, and speedily he withered away.
And his reformation was a house built upon sand, for, even at its pinnacle, it was compatible
with the practising of sweet and pure expressions before the glass, the giving of much time
to the discovery of the really most successful location of the parting in his long hair, the
intentional entangling of his fingers with those of the plump and pretty young lady (very brunette)
in Rightaway & Mademore's, what time she handed him "ties to match his eyes," as he requested.

It was really only a change of pose. The attitude now was: "I, young as you behold me, am old
and weary of sin. I have Passed through the Fires. Give me beauty and give me peace. I have
done with the World and its Dead Sea Fruit. There is no God but Beauty, and Woman is its Prophet."
And he improved in appearance, grew thinner, shook off a veritable Old Man of the Sea in the
shape of a persistent pimple which went ill with the Higher Aestheticism, and achieved great
things in delicate socks, sweet shirts, dream ties, a thumb ring and really pretty shoes.

In the presence of Mrs. Pat Dearman he looked sad, smouldering, despairing and Fighting-against-his-Lower-Self,
when not looking Young-but-Hopelessly-Depraved-though-Yearning-for-Better-Things. And he flung
out quick epigrams, sighed heavily, talked brilliantly and wildly, and then suppressed a groan.
Sometimes the pose of, "Dear Lady, I could kiss the hem of your garment for taking an interest
in me and my past--but it is too lurid for me to speak of it, or for you to understand it if
I did," would appear for a moment, and sometimes that of, "Oh, help me--or my soul must drown.
Ah, leave me not. If I have sinned I have suffered, and in your hands lie my Heaven and my
Hell." Such shocking words were never uttered of course--but there are few things more real
than an atmosphere, and Augustus Clarence could always get his atmosphere all right.

And Mrs. Pat Dearman (who had come almost straight from a vicarage, a vicar papa and a vicarish
aunt, to an elderly, uxorious husband and untrammelled freedom, and knew as much of the World
as a little bunny rabbit whom its mother has not brought yet out into the warren for its first
season), was mightily intrigued.

She felt motherly to the poor boy at first, being only two years his junior; then sisterly;
and, later, very friendly indeed.

Let it be clearly understood that Mrs. Pat Dearman was a thoroughly good, pure-minded woman,
incapable of deceiving her husband, and both innocent and ignorant to a remarkable degree.
She was the product of an unnatural, specialized atmosphere of moral supermanity, the secluded
life, and the careful suppression of healthy, natural instincts. In justice to Augustus Clarence
also it must be stated that the impulse to decency, though transient, was genuine as far as
it went, and that he would as soon have thought of cutting his long beautiful hair as of thinking
evil in connection with Mrs. Pat Dearman.

Yes, Mrs. Pat Dearman was mightily intrigued--and quickly came to the conclusion that it was
her plain and bounden duty to "save" the poor, dear boy--though from what she was not quite
clear. He was evidently unhappy and obviously striving-to-be-Good--and he had such beautiful
eyes, dressed so tastefully, and looked at one with such a respectful devotion and regard,
that, really--well, it added a tremendous savour to life. Also he should be protected from
the horrid flirting Mrs. Bickker who simply lived to collect scalps.

And so the friendship grew and ripened--quickly as is possible only in India. The evil-minded
talked evil and saw harm where none existed, proclaiming themselves for what they were, and
injuring none but themselves. (Sad to say, these were women, with one or two exceptions in
favour of men--like the Hatter--who perhaps might be called "old women of the male sex," save
that the expression is a vile libel upon the sex that still contains the best of us.) Decent
people expressed the belief that it would do Augustus a lot of good--much-needed good; and
the crystallized male opinion was that the poisonous little beast was uncommon lucky, but Mrs.
Pat Dearman would find him out sooner or later.

As for Mr. (or Colonel) Dearman, that lovable simple soul was grateful to Augustus for existing--as
long as his existence gave Mrs. Dearman any pleasure. If the redemption of Augustus interested
her, let Augustus be redeemed. He believed that the world neither held, nor had held, his wife's
equal in character and nobility of mind. He worshipped an image of his own creation in the
shape of Cleopatra Dearman, and the image he had conceived was a credit to the single-minded,
simple-hearted gentleman.

Naturally he did not admire Augustus Clarence Percy Marmaduke Grobble (learned in millinery;
competent, as modes varied, to discuss harem, hobble, pannier, directoire, slit, or lamp-shade
skirts, berthes, butterfly-motif embroideries, rucked ninon sleeves, chiffon tunics, and similar
mysteries of the latest fashion-plates, with a lady undecided).

Long-haired men put Dearman off, and he could not connect the virile virtues with large bows,
velvet coats, scent, manicure, mannerisms and meandering.

But if Augustus gave his wife any pleasure--why Augustus had not lived wholly in vain. His
attitude to Augustus was much that of his attitude to his wife's chocolates, fondants, and
crystallized violets--"Not absolutely nourishing and beneficial for you, Dearest;--but harmless,
and I'll bring you a ton with pleasure".

Personally he'd as soon go about with his wife's fat French poodle as with Augustus, but so
long as either amused her--let the queer things flourish.

Among the nasty-minded old women who "talked" was the Mad Hatter.

"Shameful thing the way that Dearman woman throws dust in her husband's eyes!" said he, while
sipping his third Elsie May at the club bar. "He should divorce her. I would, to-morrow, if
I were burdened with her."

A knee took him in the small of the back with unnecessary violence and he spun round to demand
instant apology from the clumsy....

He found himself face to face with one John Robin Ross-Ellison newly come to Gungapur, a gentleman
of independent means but supposed to be connected with the Political Department or the Secret
Service or something, who stared him in the eyes without speaking while he poised a long drink
as though wondering whether it were worth while wasting good liquor on the face of such a thing
as the Hatter.

"You'll come with me and clear the dust from Dearman's eyes at once," said he at last. "Made
your will all right?"

The Hatter publicly apologised, then and there, and explained that he had, for once in his
life, taken a third drink and didn't know what he was saying.

"If your third drink brings out the real man, I should recommend you to stick to two, Bonnett,"
said the young man, and went away to cogitate.

Should he speak to Dearman? No. He didn't want to see so good a chap hanged for a thing like
the Bonnett. Should he go and slap Augustus Grobble hard and make him leave the station somehow?
No. Sure to be a scandal. You can no more stop a scandal than a locust-cloud or a fog. The
best way to increase it is to notice it. What a horrid thing is a scandal-monger--exhaling
poison. It publishes the fact that it is poisonous, of course--but the gas is not enjoyable.

Well, God help anybody Dearman might happen to hear on the subject! Happily Mr. (or Colonel)
Dearman heard nothing, for he was a quiet, slow, jolly, red-haired man, and the wrath of a
slow, quiet, red-haired man, once roused, is apt to be a rather dangerous thing. Also Mr. Dearman
was singularly elephantine in the blundering crushing directness of his methods, and his idea
of enough might well seem more than a feast to some.

And Mr. Dearman suffered Augustus gladly, usually finding him present at tea, frequently at
dinner, and invariably in attendance at dances and functions.

Augustus was happy and Good--for Augustus. He dallied, he adored, he basked. For a time he
felt how much better, finer, more enjoyable, more beautiful, was this life of innocent communion
with a pure soul--pure, if just a little insipid, after the real spankers he had hitherto affected.

He was being saved from himself, reformed, helped, and all the rest of it. And when privileged
to bring her pen, her fan, her book, her cushion, he always kissed the object with an appearance
of wishing to be unseen in the act. It was a splendid change from the Lurid Life and the mean
adventure. Piquant.

Unstable as water he could not excel nor endure, however, even in dalliance; nor persevere
even when adopted as the fidus Achates of a good and beautiful woman--the poor little weather-cock.
He was essentially weak, and weakness is worse than wickedness. There is hope for the strong
bad man. He may become a strong good one. Your weak man can never be that.

There came a lady to the Great Eastern Hotel where Augustus lived. Her husband's name, curiously
enough, was Harris, and wags referred to him as the Mr. Harris, because he had never been seen--and
like Betsey Prig, they "didn't believe there was no sich person". And beyond doubt she was
a spanker.

Augustus would sit and eye her at meals--and his face would grow a little less attractive.
He would think of her while he took tea with Mrs. and Mr. Dearman, assuring himself that she
was certainly a stepper, a stunner, and, very probably,--thrilling thought--a wrong 'un.

Without the very slightest difficulty he obtained an introduction and, shortly afterwards,
decided that he was a man of the world, a Decadent, a wise Hedonist who took the sweets of
every day and hoped for more to-morrow.

Who but a fool or a silly greenhorn lets slip the chances of enjoyment, and loses opportunities
of experiences? There was nothing in the world, they said, to compare with War and Love. Those
who wanted it were welcome to the fighting part, he would be content with the loving rôle.
He would be a Dog and go on breaking hearts and collecting trophies. What a milk-and-water
young ass he had been, hanging about round good, silly, little Mrs. Dearman, denying himself
champagne at dinner-parties, earning opprobrium as a teetotaller, going to bed early like a
bread-and-butter flapper, and generally losing all the joys of Life! Been behaving like a backfisch.
He read his Swinburne again, and unearthed from the bottom of a trunk some books that dealt
with the decadent's joys,--poets of the Flesh, and prosers of the Devil, in his many weary forms.

Also he redoubled his protestations (of undying, hopeless, respectful devotion and regard)
to Mrs. Dearman, until she, being a woman, therefore suspected something and became uneasy.

One afternoon he failed to put in an appearance at tea-time, though expected. He wrote that
he had had a headache. Perhaps it was true, but, if so, it had been borne in the boudoir of
the fair spanker whose husband may or may not have been named Harris.

As his absences from the society of Mrs. Dearman increased in frequency, his protestations
of undying gratitude and regard for her increased in fervour.

Mrs. Dearman grew more uneasy and a little unhappy.

Could she be losing her influence for Good over the poor weak boy? Could it be--horrible thought--that
he was falling into the hands of some nasty woman who would flirt with him, let him smoke too
many cigarettes, drink cocktails, and sit up late? Was he going to relapse and slip back into
that state of wickedness of some kind, that she vaguely understood him to have been guilty
of in the unhappy past when he had possessed no guardian angel to keep his life pure, happy
and sweet, as he now declared it to be?

"Where's your young friend got to lately?" inquired her husband one day.

"I don't know, John," she replied, "he's always missing appointments nowadays," and there was
a pathetic droop about the childish mouth.

"Haven't quarrelled with him, or anything, have you, Pat?"

"No, John dear. It would break his heart if I were unkind to him--or it would have used to.
I mean it used to have would. Oh, you know what I mean. Once it would have. No, I have not
been unkind to him--it's rather the other way about, I think!"

Rather the other way about! The little affected pimp unkind to Mrs. Dearman! Mr. (or Colonel)
Dearman made no remark--aloud.

Augustus came to tea next day and his hostess made much of him. His host eyed him queerly. Very.

Augustus felt uncomfortable. Good Heavens! Was Dearman jealous? The man was not going to cut
up jealous at this time of day, surely! Not after giving him the run of the house for months,
and allowing him to take his wife everywhere--nay, encouraging him in every way. Absurd idea!

Beastly disturbing idea though--Dearman jealous, and on your track! A rather direct and uncompromising
person, red-haired too. But the man was absolutely fair and just, and he'd never do such a
thing as to let a fellow be his wife's great pal, treat him as one of the family for ages,
and then suddenly round on him as though he were up to something. No. Especially when he was,
if anything, cooling off a bit.

"He was always most cordial--such a kind chap,--when I was living in his wife's pocket almost,"
reflected Augustus, "and he wouldn't go and turn jealous just when the thing was slacking off
a bit."

But there was no doubt that Dearman was eyeing him queerly....

"Shall we go on the river to-morrow night, Gussie?" said Mrs. Dearman, "or have a round of
golf, or what?"

"Let's see how we feel to-morrow," replied Augustus, who had other schemes in view. "Sufficient
unto the day is the joy thereof," and he escorted Mrs. Dearman to the Gymkhana, found her some
nice, ladies' pictorials, said, "I'll be back in a minute or two,"--and went in search of Mrs.
"Harris".

"Well," said that lady, "been a good little boy and eaten your bread and butter nicely? Have
a Lyddite cocktail to take the taste away. So will I." ...

"Don't forget to book the big punt," said the Siren an hour or so later. "I'll be ready for
you about five."

Augustus wrote one of his charming little notes on his charming little note-paper that evening.

"KIND AND GRACIOUS LADYE,

"Pity me. Pity and love me. To-morrow the sun will not shine for your slave, for he will not
see it. I am unable to come over in the evening. I stand 'twixt love and duty, and know you
would counsel duty. Would the College and all its works were beneath the ocean wave! Think
of me just once and I shall survive till the day after. Oh, that I could think your disappointment
were but one thousandth part of mine. I live but for Thursday.

"Ever your most devoted loving slave,

"GUSSIE."

Mrs. Dearman wept one small tear, for she had doubted his manner when he had evaded making
the appointment, and was suspicious. Mr. Dearman entered and noted the one small tear ere it
trickled off her dainty little nose.

She showed him the note.

Mr. (or Colonel) Dearman thought much. What he said was "Hm!"

"I suppose he has got to invigilate at some horrid examination or something," she said, but
she did not really suppose anything of the kind. Even to her husband she could not admit the
growing dreadful fear that the brand she had plucked from the burning was slipping from her
hand--falling back into the flames.

At a dinner-party that night a woman whom she hated, and wrote down an evil-minded scandal-monger
and inventor and disseminator of lies, suddenly said to her, "Who is this Mrs. Harris, my dear?"

"How should I know?" replied Mrs. Dearman.

"Oh, I thought your young friend Mr. Grobble might have told you--he seems to know her very
well," answered the woman sweetly.

That night Mr. Dearman heard his wife sobbing in bed. Going to her he asked what was the matter,
and produced eau-de-Cologne, phenacetin, smelling-salts and sympathy.

She said that nothing at all was the matter and he went away and pondered. Next day he asked
her if he could row her on the river as he wanted some exercise, and Augustus was not available
to take her for a drive or anything.

"I should love it, John dear," she said. "You row like an ox," and John, who had been reckoned
an uncommon useful stroke, felt that a compliment was intended if not quite materialized.

Mrs. Pat Dearman enjoyed the upstream trip, and, watching her husband drive the heavy boat
against wind and current with graceful ease, contrasted him with the puny, if charming, Augustus--to
the latter's detriment. He was so safe, so sound, so strong, reliable and true. But then he
never needed any protection, care and help. It was impossible to "mother" John. He loved her
devotedly and beautifully but one couldn't pretend he leaned on her for moral help. Now Augustus
did need her or he had done so--and she did so love to be needed. Had done so? No--she would
put the thought away. He needed her as much as ever and loved her as devotedly and honourably....
The boat was turned back at the weir and, half an hour later, reached the Club wharf.

"I want to go straight home without changing, Pat; do you mind? I'll drop you at the Gymkhana
if you don't want to get home so early," said Dearman, as he helped his wife out.

"Won't you change and have a drink first, John?" she replied. "You must be thirsty."

"No. I want to go along now, if you don't mind."

He did want to--badly. For, rowing up, he had seen something which his wife, facing the other
way, could not see.

Under an over-hanging bush was a punt, and in the punt were Augustus and the lady known as
Mrs. Harris.

The bush met the bank at the side toward his wife, but at the other side, facing Dearman, there
was an open space and so he had seen and she had not. Returning, he had drawn her attention
to something on the opposite bank. This had been unnecessary, however, as Augustus had effected
a change of venue without delay. And now he did not want his wife to witness the return of
the couple and learn of the duplicity of her snatched Brand.

(He'd "brand" him anon!)

       *       *       *       *       *

Augustus Clarence Percy Marmaduke Grobble sat in the long cane chair in his sitting-room, a
glass beside him, a cigarette between his lips, a fleshly poet in his hand, and a reminiscent
smile upon his flushed face.

She undoubtedly was a spanker. Knew precisely how many beans make five. A woman of the world,
that. Been about. Knew things. Sort of woman one could tell a good story to--and get one back.
Life! Life! Knew it up and down, in and out. Damn reformation, teetotality, the earnest, and
the strenuous. Good women were unmitigated bores, and he.... A sharp knock at the door.

"Kon hai?"[47] he called. "Under ao."[48]

  [47] Who's there.
  [48] Come in.

The door opened and large Mr. Dearman walked in. He bore a nasty-looking malacca cane in his
hand--somewhat ostentatiously.

"Hullo, Dearman!" said Augustus after a decidedly startled and anxious look. "What is it? Sit
down. I'm just back from College. Have a drink?"

Large Mr. Dearman considered these things seriatim.

"I will sit down as I want a talk with you. You are a liar in the matter of just being back
from College. I will not have a drink." He then lapsed into silence and looked at Augustus
very straight and very queerly, while bending the nasty malacca suggestively. The knees of
Augustus smote together.

Good God! It had come at last! The thrashing he had so often earned was at hand. What should
he do? What should he do!

Dearman thought the young man was about to faint.

"Fine malacca that, isn't it?" he asked.

"Ye-yes!"

"Swishy, supple, tough."

"Ye-yes!" (How could the brute be such a fool as to be jealous now--now when it was all cooling
off and coming to an end?)

"Grand stick to thrash a naughty boy with, what?"

"Ye-yes!--Dearman, I swear before God that there is nothing between me and----"

"Shut up, you infernal God-forsaken cub, or I shall have to whip you. I----"

"Dearman, if you are jealous of me----"

"Better be quiet and listen, or I shall get cross, and you'll get hurt.... You have given us
the pleasure of a great deal of your company this year, and I have come to ask you----"

"Dearman, I have not been so much lately, and I--"

"That's what I complain of, my young friend."

"What?"

"That's what I complain of! I have come to protest against your making yourself almost necessary
to me, in a sense, and then--er--deserting me, in a sense."

"You are mocking me, Dearman. If you wish to take advantage of my being half your size and
strength to assault me, you----"

"Not a bit of it, my dear Augustus. I am in most deadly earnest, as you'll find if you are
contumacious when I make my little proposition. What I say is this. I have grown to take an
interest in you, Augustus. I have been very kind to you and tried to make a better man of you.
I have been a sort of mother to you, and you have sworn devotion and gratitude to me. I have
reformed you somewhat, and you have admitted to me that I have made another man of you, Augustus,
and that you love me for it, you love me with a deep Platonic love, my Augustus, and--don't
you forget it."

"I admit that your wife----"

"Don't you mention my wife, Augustus, or you and I and that malacca will have a period of great
activity. I was saying that I am disappointed in you, Augustus, and truly grieved to find you
so shallow and false. I asked you to take me on the river to-night and you lied to me and took
a very different type of--er--person. Such meanness and ingratitude fairly get me, Augustus.
Now I never asked you to run after me and come and swear I had saved your dirty little soul
alive, but since you did it, Augustus, and I have come to take a deep interest in saving the
thing--why, you've got to stick it, Augustus--and if you don't--why, then I'll make you, my dear."

"Dearman, your wife has been the noblest friend----"

"Will you come off it, Augustus? I don't want to be cruel. Now look here. I have got accustomed
to having you about the house and employing you in those funny little ways in which you are
a useful little animal. I am under no delusion as to the value of that Soul of yours--but,
such as it is, I am determined to save it. So just you bring it round to tea to-morrow, as
usual; and don't you ever be absent again without my permission. You began the game and I'll
end it--when I think fit. Grand malacca that."

"Dearman, I will always----"

"'Course you will. See you at tea to-morrow, Gussie. If ever my wife hears of this I'll kill
you painfully. Bye-Bye."

Augustus was present at tea next day, and, thenceforth, so regular was he that Mrs. Dearman
found, first, that she had been very foolish in thinking that her Brand was slipping back into
the fire and, later, that Gussie was a bore and a nuisance.

One day he said in the presence of John:--

"I can't keep that golf engagement on Saturday, dear lady, I have to attend a meeting of the
Professors, Principal and College Board".

"Have you seen my malacca cane, Pat," said Dearman. "I want it."

"But I really have!" said Augustus, springing up.

"Of course you have," replied Dearman. "What do you mean?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"John dear," remarked Mrs. Dearman one day, "I wish you could give Gussie a hint not to come
quite so often. I have given him some very broad ones during the last few months, but he won't
take them. He would from you, I expect."

"Tired of the little bounder, Pat?"

"Oh, sick and tired. He bores me to tears. I wish he were in Government Service and could be
transferred. A Government man's always transferred as soon as he has settled to his job. I
can't forbid him the house, very well, but I wish he'd realize how weary I am of his poses
and new socks." What could he do? Better chuck his job and clear out! The strain was getting
awful. What a relentless, watchful brute Dearman was! To him entered that gentleman after gently
tapping at the chamber door.

"Gussie," said he, "I have come to say that I think you weary me. I don't want you to come
and play with me any more. But be a nice good boy and do me credit. I have brought you this
malacca as a present and a memento. I have another, Gussie, and am going to watch you, so be
a real credit to me."

And Gussie was.

So once again a good woman redeemed a bad man--but a trifle indirectly perhaps.

Then came General Miltiades Murger and Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison to be saved.

During intervals in the salvation process, Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison vainly endeavoured to
induce Mr. Augustus Clarence Percy Marmaduke Grobble to lend his countenance, as well as the
rest of his person, to the European Company of the Gungapur Fusilier Volunteer Corps which
it was the earnest ambition of Ross-Ellison to raise and train and consolidate into a real
and genuine defence organization, with a maxim-gun, a motor-cycle and car section, and a mounted
troop, and with, above all, a living and sturdy esprit-de-corps. Such a Company appeared to
him to be the one and only hope of regeneration for the ludicrous corps which Colonel Dearman
commanded, and to change the metaphor, the sole possible means of leavening the lump by its
example of high standards and high achievement.

To Augustus, however, as to many other Englishmen, the idea was merely ridiculous and its parent
simply absurd.

The day dawned when Augustus, like the said many other Englishmen, changed his mind. In his,
and their defence, it may be urged that they knew nothing of the activities of a very retiring
but persevering gentleman, known to his familiars as Ilderim the Weeper, and that they had
grown up in the belief that all England's fighting and defence can be done by a few underpaid,
unconsidered, and very vulgar hirelings.

Perish the thought that Augustus and his like should ever be expected to do the dirty work
of defending themselves, their wives, children, homes and honour.

§ 2. GENERAL MURGER.

In a temporary Grand Stand of matchboarding and canvas tout Gungapur greeted Mrs. Pat Dearman,
who was quite At Home, ranged itself, and critically inspected the horses, or the frocks, of
its friends, according to its sex.

Around the great ring on to which the Grand Stand looked, Arab, Pathan, and other heathen raged
furiously together and imagined many vain things. Among them unobtrusively moved a Somali who
listened carefully to conversations, noted speakers, and appeared to be collecting impressions
as to the state of public opinion--and of private opinion. Particularly he sought opportunities
of hearing reference to the whereabouts and doings of one Ilderim the Weeper. In the ring were
a course of stiff jumps, lesser rings, the judges' office, a kind of watch-tower from which
a strenuous fiend with a megaphone bawled things that no living soul could understand, and
a number of most horsily-arrayed gentlemen, whose individual status varied from General and
cavalry-colonel to rough rider, troop sergeant-major and stud groom.

I regret to add that there was also a Lady, that she was garbed for riding in the style affected
by mere man, and that she swaggered loud-voiced, horsey, slapping a boot.

Let men thank the good God for womanly women while such be--and appreciate them.

Behind the Grand Stand were massed the motor-cars and carriages of Society, as well as the
Steward of the Gungapur Club, who there spent a busy afternoon in eating ices and drinking
Cup while his myrmidons hurried around, washed glasses, squeezed lemons, boiled water and dropped
things. Anon he drank ices and ate Cup (with a spoon) and was taken deviously back to his little
bungalow behind the Club by the Head Bootlaire Saheb (or butler) who loved and admired him.

Beyond the big ring ran the river, full with the summer rains, giving a false appearance of
doing much to cool the air and render the afternoon suitable to the stiff collars and "Europe"
garments of the once sterner sex.

A glorious sea-breeze did what the river pretended to do. Beneath the shade of a clump of palms,
scores of more and less valuable horses stamped, tossed heads, whisked tails and possibly wondered
why God made flies, while an equal number of syces squatted, smoked pungent bidis, and told lies.

Outside a tent, near by, sat a pimply youth at a table bearing boxes of be-ribboned labels,
number-inscribed, official, levelling.

These numbers corresponded with those attached to the names of the horses in the programme
of events, and riders must tie one round each arm ere bringing a horse up for judgment when
called on.

Certain wretched carping critics alleged that this arrangement was to prevent the possibility
of error on the part of the Judges, who, otherwise, would never know whether a horse belonged
to a General or a Subaltern, to a Member of Council or an Assistant Collector, to a Head of
a Department or a wretched underling--in short to a personage or a person.

You find this type of doubter everywhere--and especially in India where official rank is but
the guinea stamp and gold is brass without it.

Great, in the Grand Stand, was General Miltiades Murger. Beside Mrs. Dearman, most charming
of hostesses, he sate, in the stage of avuncular affection, and told her that if the Judges
knew their business his hunter would win the Hunter-Class first prize and be "Best Horse in
the Show" too.

As to his charger, his hack, his trapper, his suitable-for-polo ponies, his carriage-horses
he did not worry; they might or might not "do something," but his big and beautiful hunter--well,
he hoped the Judges knew their business, that was all.

"Are you going to show him in the ring yourself, General?" asked Mrs. Dearman.

"And leave your side?" replied the great man in manner most avuncular and with little reassuring
pats upon the lady's hand. "No, indeed. I am going to remain with you and watch Rissaldar-Major
Shere Singh ride him for me. Finest horseman in India. Good as myself. Yes, I hope the Judges
for Class XIX know their business. I imported that horse from Home and he cost me over six
thousand rupees."

Meanwhile, it may be mentioned, evil passions surged in the soul of Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison
as he watched the General, and witnessed his avuncular pattings and confidential whisperings.
Mr. Ross-Ellison had lunched with the Dearmans, had brought Mrs. Dearman to the Horse Show,
and was settling down, after she had welcomed her guests, to a delightful, entrancing, and
thrillful afternoon with her--to be broken but while he showed his horse--when he had been
early and utterly routed by the General. The heart of Mr. Ross-Ellison was sore within him,
for he loved Mrs. Dearman very devotedly and respectfully.

He was always devotedly in love with some one, and she was always a nice good woman.

When she, or he, left the station, his heart died within him, life was hollow, and his mouth
filled with Dead Sea fruit. The world he loved so much would turn to dust and ashes at his
touch. After a week or so his heart would resurrect, life would become solid, and his mouth
filled with merry song. He would fall in love afresh and the world went very well then.

At present he loved Mrs. Dearman--and hated General Miltiades Murger, who had sent him for
a programme and taken his seat beside Mrs. Dearman. There was none on the other side of her--Mr.
Ross-Ellison had seen to that--and his prudent foresight had turned and rent him, for he could
not plant a chair in the narrow gangway.

He wandered disconsolately away and instinctively sought the object of the one permanent and
unwavering love of his life--his mare "Zuleika," late of Balkh.

Zuleika was more remarkable for excellences of physique than for those of mind and character.
To one who knew her not, she was a wild beast, fitter for a cage in a Zoo than for human use,
a wild-eyed, screaming man-eating she-devil; and none knew her save Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison,
who had bought her unborn. (He knew her parents.)

"If you see an ugly old cove with no hair and a blue nose come over here for his number, just
kick his foremost button, hard," said Mr. Ross-Ellison to her as he gathered up the reins and,
dodging a kick, prepared to mount. This was wrong of him, for Zuleika had never suffered any
harm at the hands of General Miltiades Murger, "'eavy-sterned amateur old men" he quoted in
a vicious grumble.

A wild gallop round the race-course did something to soothe the ruffled spirit of Mr. Ross-Ellison
and nothing to improve Zuleika's appearance--just before she entered the show-ring.

On returning, Mr. Ross-Ellison met the Notable Nut (Lieutenant Nottinger Nutt, an ornament
of the Royal Horse Artillery), and they talked evil of Dignitaries and Institutions amounting
to high treason if not blasphemy, while watching the class in progress, with young but gloomy eyes.

"I don't care what anybody says," observed the Notable Nut. "You read the lists of prize-winners
of all the bally horse-shows ever held here and you'll find 'em all in strict and decorous
order of owner's rank. 'Chargers. First Prize--Lieutenant-General White's "Pink Eye". Second
Prize--Brigadier-General Black's "Red Neck". Third Prize--Colonel Brown's "Ham Bone". Highly
commended--Major Green's "Prairie Oyster". Nowhere at all--Second-Lieutenant Blue's "Cocktail,"'--and
worth all the rest put together. I tell you I've seen horse after horse change hands after
winning a First Prize as a General's property and then win nothing at all as a common Officer's
or junior civilian's, until bought again by a Big Pot. Then it sweeps the board. I don't for
one second dream of accusing Judges of favouritism or impropriety any kind, but I'm convinced
that the glory of a brass-bound owner casts a halo about his horse that dazzles and blinds
the average rough-rider, stud-groom and cavalry-sergeant, and don't improve the eyesight of
some of their betters, when judging."

"You're right, Nutty," agreed Mr. Ross-Ellison. "Look at that horse 'Runaway'. Last year it
won the First Prize as a light-weight hunter, First Prize as a hack, and Highly Commended as
a charger--disqualified from a prize on account of having no mane. It then belonged to a Colonel
of Dragoons. This year, with a mane and in, if possible, better condition, against practically
the same horses, it wins nothing at all. This year it belongs to a junior in the P.W.D. one
notices."

"Just what I say," acquiesced the aggrieved Nut, whose rejected horse had been beaten by another
which it had itself beaten (under different ownership) the previous year. "Fact is, the judges
should be absolutely ignorant as to who owns the horses. They mean well enough, but to them
it stands to reason that the most exalted Pots own the most exalted horses. Besides, is it
fair to ask a troop sergeant-major to order his own Colonel's horse out of the ring, or the
General's either? They ought not to get subordinates in at all. Army Veterinary Colonels from
other Divisions are the sort of chaps you want, and some really knowledgeable unofficial civilians--and,
as I say, to be in complete ignorance as to ownership. No man to ride his own horse--and none
of these bally numbers to prevent the Judges from thinking a General's horse belongs to a common
man, and from getting the notion that a subaltern's horse belongs to a General."

"Yes" mused Mr. Ross-Ellison, "and another thing. If you want to get a horse a win or a place
in the Ladies' Hack class--get a pretty girl to ride it. They go by the riders' faces and figures
entirely.... Hullo! Class XIX wanted. That's me and Zuleika. Come and tie the labels on my
arms like a good dog."

"Right O. But you haven't the ghost of a little look in," opined the Nut. "Old Murger has got
a real corking English hunter in. A General will win as usual--but he'll win with by far the
best horse, for once in the history of horse-shows."

Dismounting and handing their reins to the syces, the two young gentlemen strolled over to
the table where presided he of the pimples and number-labels.

A burly Sikh was pointing to the name of General Miltiades Murger and asking for the number
printed thereagainst.

The youth handed Rissaldar-Major Shere Singh two labels each bearing the number 99. These,
the gallant Native Officer proceeded to tie upon his arms--putting them upside down, as is
the custom of the native of India when dealing with anything in any wise reversible.

Mr. Ross-Ellison approached the table, showed his name on the programme and asked for his number--66.

"Tie these on," said he returning to his friend. "By Jove--there's old Murger's horse," he
added--"what a magnificent animal!"

Looking up, the Nut saw Rissaldar-Major Shere Singh mounting the beautiful English hunter--and
also saw that he bore the number 66. Therefore the labels handed to him were obviously 99,
and as 99 he tied on the 66 of Mr. Ross-Ellison--who observed the fact.

"I am afraid I'm all Pathan at this moment," silently remarked he unto his soul, and smiled
an ugly smile.

"Not much good my entering Zuleika against that mare," he said aloud. "It must have cost just
about ten times what I paid for her. Never mind though! We'll show up--for the credit of civilians,"
and he rode into the ring--where a score of horses solemnly walked round and round the Judges
and in front of the Grand Stand....

General Murger brought Mrs. Dearman a cup of tea, and, having placed his topi[49] in his chair,
went, for a brandy-and-soda and cheroot, to the bar behind the rows of seats.

  [49] Sun-helmet.

On his return he beheld his superb and expensive hunter behaving superbly and expensively in
the expert hands of Rissaldar-Major Shere Singh.

He feasted his eyes upon it.

Suddenly a voice, a voice he disliked intensely, the voice of Mr. Dearman croaked fiendishly
in his ear: "Why, General, they've got your horse numbered wrongly!"

General Miltiades Murger looked again. Upon the arm of Rissaldar-Major Shere Singh was the
number 66.

Opening his programme with trembling fingers he found his name, his horse's name, and number 99!

He rose to his feet, stammering and gesticulating. As he did so the words:--

"Take out number 66," were distinctly borne to the ears of the serried ranks of the fashionable
in the Grand Stand. Certain military-looking persons at the back abandoned all dignity and
fell upon each other's necks, poured great libations, danced, called upon their gods, or fell
prostrate upon settees.

Others, seated among the ladies, looked into their bats as though in church.

"Has Ross-Ellison faked it?" ran from mouth to mouth, and, "He'll be hung for this".

A minute or so later the Secretary approached the Grand Stand and announced in stentorian tones:

"First Prize--General Murger's Darling, Number 99".

While behind him upon Zuleika, chosen of the Judges, sat and smiled Mr. John Robin Ross-Ellison,
who lifted his voice and said: "Thanks--No!--This horse is mine and is named Zuleika." He looked
rather un-English, rather cunning, cruel and unpleasant--quite different somehow, from his
ordinary cheery, bright English self.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Old" Brigadier General Miltiades Murger was unique among British Generals in that he sometimes
resorted to alcoholic stimulants beyond reasonable necessity and had a roving and a lifting
eye for a pretty woman. In one sense the General had never taken a wife--and, in another, he
had taken several. Indeed it was said of him by jealous colleagues that the hottest actions
in which he had ever been engaged were actions for divorce or breach of promise, and that this
type of imminent deadly breach was the kind with which he was best acquainted. Also that he
was better at storming the citadel of a woman's heart than at storming anything else.

No eminent man is without jealous detractors.

As to the stimulants, make no mistake and jump to no hasty conclusions. General Murger had
never been seen drunk in the whole of his distinguished and famous (or as the aforesaid colleagues
called it, egregious and notorious) career.

On the other hand, the voice of jealousy said he had never been seen sober either. In the words
of envy, hatred, malice and all uncharitableness it declared that he had been born fuddled,
had lived fuddled, and would die fuddled. And there were ugly stories.

Also some funny ones--one of which concerns the, Gungapur Fusilier Volunteer Corps and Colonel
Dearman, their beloved but shortly retiring (and, as some said, their worthy) Commandant.

Mr. Dearman was a very wealthy (and therefore popular), very red haired and very patriotic
mill-owner who tried very hard to be proud of his Corps, and, without trying, was immensely
proud of his wife.

As to the Corps--well, it may at least be said that it would have followed its beloved Commandant
anywhere (that was neither far nor dangerous), for every one of its Officers, except Captain
John Robin Ross-Ellison, and the bulk of its men, were his employees.

They loved him for his wealth and they trusted him absolutely--trusted him not to march them
far nor work them much. And they were justified of their faith.

Several of the Officers were almost English--though Greeks and Goa-Portuguese predominated,
and there was undeniably a drop or two of English blood in the ranks, well diffused of course.
Some folk said that even Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison was not as Scotch as his name.

On guest-nights in the Annual Camp of Exercise (when the Officers' Mess did itself as well
as any Mess in India--and only took a few hundred rupees of the Government Grant for the purpose)
Colonel Dearman would look upon the wine when it was bubbly, see his Corps through its golden
haze, and wax so optimistic, so enthusiastic, so rash, as roundly to state that if he had five
hundred of the Gungapur Fusiliers, with magazines charged and bayonets fixed, behind a stout
entrenchment or in a fortified building, he would stake his life on their facing any unarmed
city mob you could bring against them. But these were but post-prandial vapourings, and Colonel
Dearman never talked nor thought any such folly when the Corps was present to the eye of flesh.

On parade he saw it for what it was--a mob of knock-kneed, sniffling lads with just enough
strength to suck a cigarette; anaemic clerks, fat cooks, and loafers with just enough wind
to last a furlong march; huge beery old mechanics and ex-"Tommies," forced into this coloured
galley as a condition of their "job at the works "; and the non-native scum of the city of
Gungapur--which joined for the sake of the ammunition-boots and khaki suit.

There was not one Englishman who was a genuine volunteer and not half a dozen Parsis. Englishmen
prefer to join a corps which consists of Englishmen or at least has an English Company. When
they have no opportunity of so doing, it is a little unfair to class them with the lazy, unpatriotic,
degenerate young gentlemen who have the opportunity and do not seize it. Captain Ross-Ellison
was doing his utmost to provide the opportunity--with disheartening results.

However--Colonel Dearman tried very hard to be proud of his Corps and never forgave anyone
who spoke slightingly of it.

As to his wife, there was, as stated, no necessity for any "trying". He was immensely and justly
proud of her as one of the prettiest, most accomplished, and most attractive women in the Bendras
Presidency.

Mrs. "Pat" Dearman, née Cleopatra Diamond Brighte, was, as has been said, consciously and most
obviously a Good Woman. Brought up by a country rector and his vilely virtuous sister, her
girlhood had been a struggle to combine her two ambitions, that of being a Good Woman with
that of having a Good Time. In the village of Bishop's Overley the former had been easier;
in India the latter. But even in India, where the Good Time was of the very best, she forgot
not the other ambition, went to church with unfailing regularity, read a portion of the Scriptures
daily; headed subscription lists for the myriad hospitals, schools, widows'-homes, work-houses,
Christian associations, churches, charitable societies, shelters, orphanages, rescue-homes
and other deserving causes that appeal to the European in India; did her duty by Colonel Dearman,
and showed him daily by a hundred little bright kindnesses that she had not married him for
his great wealth but for his--er--his--er--not exactly his beauty or cleverness or youthful
gaiety or learning or ability--no, for his Goodness, of course, and because she loved him--loved
him for the said Goodness, no doubt. No, she never forgot the lessons of the Rectory, that
it is the Whole Duty of Man to Save his or her Soul, but remembered to be a Good Woman while
having the Good Time. Perhaps the most industriously pursued of all her goodnesses was her
unflagging zealous labour in Saving the Souls of Others as well as her own Soul--the "Others"
being the young, presentable, gay, and well-placed men of Gungapur Society.

Yes, Mrs. Pat Dearman went beyond the Rectory teachings and was not content with personal salvation.
A Good Woman of broad altruistic charity, there was not a young Civilian, not a Subaltern,
not a handsome, interesting, smart, well-to-do, well-in-society, young bachelor in whose spiritual
welfare she did not take the deepest personal interest. And, perhaps, of all such eligible
souls in Gungapur, the one whose Salvation she most deeply desired to work out (after she wearied
of the posings and posturings of Augustus Grobble) was that of Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison
of her husband's corps--an exceedingly handsome, interesting, smart, well-to-do, well-in-society
young bachelor. The owner of this eligible Soul forebore to tell Mrs. Pat Dearman that it was
bespoke for Mohammed the Prophet of Allah--inasmuch as almost the most entrancing, thrilling
and delightful pursuit of his life was the pursuit of soul-treatment at the hands, the beautiful
tiny white hands, of Mrs. Pat Dearman. Had her large soulful eyes penetrated this subterfuge,
he would have jettisoned Mohammed forthwith, since, to him, the soul-treatment was of infinitely
more interest and value than the soul, and, moreover, strange as it may seem, this Mussulman
English gentleman had received real and true Christian teaching at his mother's knee. When
Mrs. Pat Dearman took him to Church, as she frequently did, on Sunday evenings, he was filled
with great longings--and with a conviction of the eternal Truth and Beauty of Christianity
and the essential nobility of its gentle, unselfish, lofty teachings. He would think of his
mother, of some splendid men and women he had known, especially missionaries, medical and other,
at Bannu and Poona and elsewhere, and feel that he was really a Christian at heart; and then
again in Khost and Mekran Kot, when carrying his life in his hand, across the border, in equal
danger from the bullet of the Border Police, Guides, or Frontier Force cavalry-outposts and
from the bullet of criminal tribesmen, when a devil in his soul surged up screaming for blood
and fire and slaughter; during the long stealthy crawl as he stalked the stalker; during the
wild, yelling, knife-brandishing rush; as he pressed the steady trigger or guided the slashing,
stabbing Khyber knife, or as he instinctively hallaled the victim of his shikar, he knew he
was a Pathan and a Mussulman as were his fathers.

But whether circumstances brought his English blood to the surface or his Pathan blood, whether
the day were one of his most English days or one of his most Pathan days, whether it were a
day of mingled and quickly alternating Englishry and Pathanity he now loved and supported Britain
and the British Empire for Mrs. Dearman's sake. Often as he (like most other non-officials)
had occasion to detest and desire to kick the Imperial Englishman, championship of England
and her Empire was now his creed. And as there was probably not another England-lover in all
India who had his knowledge of under-currents, and forces within and without, he was perhaps
the most anxiously loving of all her lovers, and the most appalled at the criminal carelessness,
blind ignorance, fatuous conceit, and folly of a proportion of her sons in India.

Knowing what he knew of Teutonic intrigue and influence in India, Ceylon, Afghanistan, Aden,
Persia, Egypt, East Africa, the Straits Settlements, and China, he was reminded of the men
and women of Pompeii who ate, drank, and were merry, danced and sang, pursued pleasure and
the nimble denarius, while Vesuvius rumbled.

Constantly the comparison entered his mind.

He had sojourned with Indian "students" in India, England, Germany, Geneva, America and Japan,
and had belonged to the most secret of societies. He had himself been a well-paid agent of
Germany in both Asia and Africa; and he had been instrumental in supplying thousands of rifles
to Border raiders, Persian bandits, and other potential troublers of the pax Britannica. He
now lived half his double life in Indian dress and moved on many planes; and to many places
where even he could not penetrate unsuspected, his staunch and devoted slave, Moussa Isa, went
observant. And all that he learnt and knew, within and without the confines of Ind, by itself
disturbed him, as an England-lover, not at all. Taken in conjunction with the probabilities
of a great European War it disturbed him mightily. As mightily as unselfishly. To him the dripping
weapon, the blazing roof, the shrieking woman, the mangled corpse were but incidents, the unavoidable,
unobjectionable concomitants of the Great Game, the game he most loved (and played upon every
possible occasion)--War. Thus, it was with no selfish thought, no personal dread, that he grew,
as said, mightily disturbed at what he knew of India whenever he saw signs of the extra imminence
of the Great European Armageddon that looms upon the horizon, now near, now nearer still, now
less near, but inevitably there, plain to the eyes of all observant, informed and thoughtful
men.[50]

  [50] Written in 1912.--AUTHOR.

What really astounded and appalled him was the mental attitude, the mental condition, of British
"statesmen," who (while a mighty and ever-growing neighbour, openly, methodically, implacably
prepared for the war that was to win her place in the sun) laboured to reap votes by sowing
class-hatred and devoted to national "insurance" moneys sorely needed to insure national existence.

To him it was as though hens cackled of introducing time-and-labour-saving incubators while
the fox pressed against the unfastened door, smiling to think that their cackle smothered all
other sounds ere they reached them or the watch-dog.

Yes--while England was at peace, all was well with India; but let England find herself at war,
fighting for her very existence ... and India might, in certain parts, be an uncomfortable
place for any but the strong man armed, as soon as the British troops were withdrawn--as they,
sooner or later, most certainly would be. Then, feared Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison of the
Gungapur Fusiliers, the British Flag would, for a terrible breathless period of stress and
horror, fly, assailed but triumphant, wherever existed a staunch well-handled Volunteer Corps,
and would flutter down into smoke, flames, ruin and blood, where there did not. He was convinced
that, for a period, the lives of English women, children and men; English prosperity, prestige,
law and order; English rule and supremacy, would in some parts of India depend for a time upon
the Volunteers of India. At times he was persuaded that the very continuance of the British
Empire might depend upon the Volunteers of India. If, during some Black Week (or Black Month
or Year) of England's death-struggle with her great rival she lost India (defenceless India,
denuded of British troops), she would lose her Empire,--be the result of her European war what
it might. And knowing all that he knew, he feared for England, he feared for India, he feared
for the Empire. Also he determined that, so far as it lay in the power of one war-trained man,
the flag should be kept flying in Gungapur when the Great European Armageddon commenced, and
should fly over a centre, and a shelter, for Mrs. Dearman, and for all who were loyal and true.

That would be a work worthy of the English blood of him and of the Pathan blood too. God! he
would show some of these devious, subterranean, cowardly swine what war is, if they brought
war to Gungapur in the hour of India's danger and need, the hour of England and the Empire's
danger and need.

Perfecting his local system of secret information, hearing and seeing all that he could with
his own Pathan ears and eyes, and adding to his knowledge by means of those of the Somali slave,
he also learnt, at first hand, what certain men were saying in Cabul and on the Border--and
what those men say in those places is worth knowing by the meteorologist of world-politics.
The pulse of the heart of Europe can be felt very far from that heart, and as is the wrist
to the pulse-feeling doctor, is Afghanistan and the Border to the head of India's Political
Department; as is the doctor's sensitive thumb to the doctor's brain, is the tried, trusted
and approven agent of the Secret Service to the Head of all the Politicals.... What chiefly
troubled Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison of the Gungapur Fusiliers was the shocking condition
of those same Fusiliers and the blind smug apathy, the fatuous contentment, the short memories
and shorter sight, of the British Pompeians who were perfectly willing that the condition of
the said Fusiliers should remain so.

Clearly the first step towards a decently reliable and efficient corps in Gungapur was the
abolition of the present one, and, with unformulated intentions towards its abolition, Mr.
Ross-Ellison, by the kind influence of Mrs. Dearman, joined as a Second Lieutenant and speedily
rose to the rank of Captain and the command of a Company. A year's indefatigable work convinced
him that he might as well endeavour to fashion sword-blades from leaden pipes as to make a
fighting unit of his gang of essentially cowardly, peaceful, unreliable, feeble nondescripts.
That their bodies were contemptible he would have regarded as merely deplorable, but there
was no spirit, no soul, no tradition--nothing upon which he could work. "Broken-down tapsters
and serving-men" indeed, in Cromwell's bitter words, and to be replaced by "men of a spirit".

They must go--and make way for men--if indeed men could be found, men who realized that even
an Englishman owes something to the community when he goes abroad, in spite of his having grown
up in a land where honourable and manly National Service is not, and those who keep him safe
are cheap hirelings, cheaply held....

On the arrival of General Miltiades Murger he sat at his feet as soon as, and whenever, possible;
only to discover that he was not only uninterested in, but obviously contemptuous of, volunteers
and volunteering. When, at the Dearmans' dinner-table, he endeavoured to talk with the General
on the subject he was profoundly discouraged, and on his asking what was to happen when the
white troops went home and the Indian troops went to the Border, or even to Europe, as soon
as England's inevitable and final war broke out, he was also profoundly snubbed.

Nor did his subsequent victory at the Horse Show lessen the enmity, inasmuch as Mrs. Dearman
(whom Ross-Ellison loved with the respectful platonic devotion of an English gentleman and
the fierce intensity of a Pathan) took General Miltiades Murger at his own valuation, when
that hero described himself and his career to her by the hour. For the General had succumbed
at a glance, and confided to his Brigade-Major that Mrs. Dearman was a dooced fine woman and
the Brigade-Major might say that he said so, damme.

As the General's infatuation increased he told everybody else also--everybody except Colonel
Dearman--who, of course, knew it already.

He even told Jobler, his soldier-servant, promoted butler, as that sympathetic and admiring
functionary endeavoured to induce him to go to bed without his uniform.

At last he told Mrs. Dearman herself, as he saw her in the rosy light that emanated from the
fine old Madeira that fittingly capped a noble luncheon given by him in her honour.

He also told her that he loved her as a father--and she besought him not to be absurd. Later
he loved her as an uncle, later still as a cousin, later yet as a brother, and then as a man.

She had laughed deprecatingly at the paternal affection, doubtfully at the avuncular, nervously
at the cousinly, angrily at the brotherly,--and not at all at the manly.

In fact--as the declaration of manly love had been accompanied by an endeavour to salute what
the General had called her damask-cheek--she had slapped the General's own cheek a resounding
blow....

"Called you 'Mrs. Darlingwoman,' did he!" roared Mr. Dearman upon being informed of the episode.
"Wished to salute your damask cheek, did he! The boozy old villain! Damask cheek! Damned cheek!
Where's my dog-whip?" ... but Mrs. Dearman had soothed and restrained her lord for the time
being, and prevented him from insulting and assaulting the "aged roué"--who was years younger,
in point of fact, than the clean-living Mr. Dearman himself.

But he had shut his door to the unrepentant and unashamed General, had cut him in the Club,
had returned a rudely curt answer to an invitation to dinner, and had generally shown the offender
that he trod on dangerous ground when poaching on the preserves of Mr. Dearman. Whereat the
General fumed.

Also the General swore that he would cut the comb of this insolent money-grubbing civilian.

Further, he intimated his desire to inspect the Gungapur Fusiliers "on Saturday next".

Not the great and terrible Annual Inspection, of course, but a preliminary canter in that direction.

Doubtless, the new General desired to arrive at a just estimate of the value of this unit of
his Command, and to allot to it the place for which it was best fitted in the scheme of local
defence and things military at Gungapur.

Perhaps he desired to teach the presumptuous upstart, Dearman, a little lesson....

The Brigade Major's demy-official letter, bearing the intimation of the impending visitation--fell
as a bolt from the blue and smote the Colonel of the Gungapur Fusiliers a blow that turned
his heart to water and loosened the tendons of his knees.

The very slack Adjutant was at home on leave; the Sergeant-Major was absolutely new to the
Corps; the Sergeant-Instructor was alcoholic and ill; and there was not a company officer,
except the admirable Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison, competent to drill a company as a separate
unit, much less to command one in a battalion. And Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison was away
on an alleged shikar-trip across the distant Border. Colonel Dearman knew his battalion-drill.
He also knew his Gungapur Fusiliers and what they did when they received the orders of those
feared and detested evolutions. They walked about, each man a law unto himself, or stood fast
until pushed in the desired direction by blasphemous drill-corporals.

Nor could any excuse be found wherewith to evade the General. It was near the end of the drill-season,
the Corps was up to its full strength, all the Officers were in the station--except Captain
Ross-Ellison and the Adjutant. And the Adjutant's absence could not be made a just cause and
impediment why the visit of the General should not be paid, for Colonel Dearman had with some
difficulty, procured the appointment of one of his Managers as acting-adjutant.

To do so he had been moved to describe the man as an "exceedingly smart and keen Officer,"
and to state that the Corps would in no way suffer by this temporary change from a military
to a civilian adjutant, from a professional to an amateur.

Perhaps the Colonel was right--it would have taken more than that to make the Gungapur Fusiliers
"suffer".

And all had gone exceeding well up to the moment of the receipt of this terrible demi-official,
for the Acting-Adjutant had signed papers when and where the Sergeant-Major told him, and had
saluted the Colonel respectfully every Saturday evening at five, as he came on parade, and
suggested that the Corps should form fours and march round and round the parade ground, prior
to attempting one or two simple movements--as usual.

No. It would have to be--unless, of course, the General had a stroke before Saturday, or was
smitten with delirium tremens in time. For it was an article of faith with Colonel Dearman
since the disgraceful episode--that a "stroke" hung suspended by the thinnest of threads above
the head of the "aged roué" and that, moreover, he trembled on the verge of a terrible abyss
of alcoholic diseases--a belief strengthened by the blue face, boiled eye, congested veins
and shaking hand of the breaker of hearts. And Colonel Dearman knew that he must not announce
the awful fact until the Corps was actually present--or few men and fewer Officers would find
it possible to be on parade on that occasion.

Saturday evening came, and with it some five hundred men and Officers--the latter as a body,
much whiter-faced than usual, on receipt of the appalling news.

"Thank God I have nothing to do but sit around on my horse," murmured Major Pinto.

"Don't return thanks yet," snapped Colonel Dearman. "You'll very likely have to drill the battalion"--and
the Major went as white as his natural disadvantages permitted.

Bitterly did Captain Trebizondi regret his constant insistence upon the fact that he was senior
Captain--for he was given command of "A" Company, the post of honour and danger in front of
all, and was implored to "pull it through" and not to stand staring like an owl when the Colonel
said the battalion would advance; or turn to the left when he shouted "In succession advance
in fours from the right of Companies".

And in the orderly-room was much hurried consulting of Captain Ross-Ellison's well-trained
subaltern and of drill-books; and a babel of such questions as: "I say, what the devil do I
do if I'm commanding Number Two and he says 'Deploy outwards'? Go to the right or left?"

More than one gallant officer was seen scribbling for dear life upon his shirt-cuff, while
others, to the common danger, endeavoured to practise the complicated sword-brandishment which
is consequent upon the order "Fall out the Officers".

Colonel Dearman appealed to his brothers-in-arms to stand by him nobly in his travail, but
was evidently troubled by the fear that some of them would stand by him when they ought to
march by him. Captain Petropaulovski, the acting-adjutant, endeavoured to moisten his parched
lips with a dry tongue and sat down whenever opportunity offered.

Captain Euxino Spoophitophiles was seen to tear a page from a red manual devoted to instruction
in the art of drill and to secrete it as one "palms" a card--if one is given to the palming
of cards. Captain Schloggenboschenheimer was heard to promise a substantial trink-geld, pour-boire,
or vot-you-call-tip to Sergeant-Instructor Progg in the event of the latter official remaining
mit him and prompting him mit der-vord-to-say ven it was necessary for him der-ting-to-do.

Too late, Captain Da Costa bethought him of telephoning to his wife (to telephone back to himself
imploring him to return at once as she was parlous ill and sinking fast), for even as he stepped
quietly toward the telephone-closet the Sergeant-Major bustled in with a salute and the fatal
words:--

"'Ere's the General, Sir!"

"For God's sake get on parade and play the man this day," cried Colonel Dearman, as he hurried
out to meet the General, scoring his right boot with his left spur and tripping over his sword
en route.

       *       *       *       *       *

The General greeted the Colonel as a total stranger, addressed him as "Colonel," and said he
anticipated great pleasure from this his first visit to the well-known Gungapur Fusiliers.
He did, and he got it.

Dismounting slowly and heavily from his horse (almost as though "by numbers") the General,
followed by his smart and dapper Brigade-Major and the perspiring Colonel Dearman, strode with
clank of steel and creak of leather, through the Headquarters building and emerged upon the
parade-ground where steadfast stood seven companies of the Gungapur Fusilier Volunteers in
quarter column--more or less at "attention".

"'Shun!" bawled Colonel Dearman, and those who were "at ease" 'shunned, and those who were
already 'shunning took their ease.

"'Shun!" again roared the Colonel, and those who were now in that military position relinquished
it--while those who were not, assumed it in their own good time.

As the trio drew nigh unto the leading company, Captain Trebizondi, coyly lurking behind its
rear rank, shrilly screamed, "'A' Gompany! Royal Salutes! Present Arrrrms!" while a volunteer,
late a private of the Loyal Whitechapel Regiment, and now an unwilling member of this corps
of auxiliary troops, audibly ejaculated through one corner of his mobile mouth:--

"Don't you do nothink o' the sort!" and added a brief orison in prejudice of his eyesight.

Certain of "A's" stalwarts obeyed their Captain, while others took the advice of the volunteer--who
was known to have been a man of war in the lurid past, and to understand these matters.

Lieutenant Toddywallah tugged valiantly at his sword for a space, but finding that weapon coy
and unwilling to leave its sheath, he raised his helmet gracefully and respectfully to the
General. His manner was always polished.

"What the devil are they doing?" inquired the General.

"B," "C," "D," "E," "F," and "G" Companies breathed hard and protruded their stomachs, while
Sergeant-Instructor Progg deserved well of Captain Schloggenboschenheimer by sharply tugging
his tunic-tail as he was in the act of roaring:--

"Gomm--!" the first syllable of the word "Company," with a view to bestowing a royal salute
likewise. Instead, the Captain extended the hand of friendship to the General as he approached.
The look of nil admirari boredom slowly faded from the face of the smart and dapper Brigade-Major,
and for a while it displayed quite human emotions.

Up and down and between the ranks strode the trio, the General making instructive and interesting
comments from time to time, such as:--

"Are your buttons of metal or bone, my man? Polish them and find out."

"What did you cook in that helmet?"

"Take your belt in seven holes, and put it where your waist was."

"Are you fourteen years old yet?"

"Personally I don't care to see brown boots, patent shoes nor carpet slippers with uniform."

"And when were you ninety, my poor fellow?"

"Get your belly out of my way."

"Put this unclean person under arrest or under a pump, please, Colonel."

"Can you load a rifle unaided?" and so forth.

The last-mentioned query "Can you load a rifle unaided?" addressed to a weedy youth of seventeen
who stood like a living mark-of-interrogation, elicited the reply:--

"Nossir".

"Oh, really! And what can you do?" replied the General sweetly.

"Load a rifle Lee-Metford," was the prompt answer.

The General smiled wintrily, and, at the conclusion of his peregrination, remarked to Colonel
Dearman:--

"Well, Colonel, I can safely say that I have never inspected a corps quite like yours"--an
observation capable of various interpretations--and intimated a desire to witness some company
drill ere testing the abilities of the regiment in battalion drill.

"Let the rear company march out and go through some movements," said he.

"Why the devil couldn't he have chosen Ross-Ellison's company," thought Colonel Dearman, as
he saluted and lifted up his voice and cried aloud:--

"Captain Rozario! March 'G' Company out for some company-drill. Remainder--stand easy."

Captain Rozario paled beneath the bronze imparted to his well-nourished face by the suns of
Portugal (or Goa), drew his sword, dropped it, picked it up, saluted with his left hand and
backed into Lieutenant Xenophontis of "F" Company, who asked him vare the devil he was going
to--hein?...

To the first cold stroke of fright succeeded the hot flush of rage as Captain Rozario saw the
absurdity of ordering him to march his company out for company drill. How in the name of all
the Holy Saints could he march his company out with six companies planted in front of him?
Let them be cleared away first. To his men he ejaculated:--

"Compannee----!" and they accepted the remark in silence.

The silence growing tense he further ejaculated "Ahem!" very loudly, without visible result
or consequence. The silence growing tenser, Colonel Dearman said encouragingly but firmly:--

"Do something, Captain Rozario".

Captain Rozario did something. He drew his whistle. He blew it. He replaced it in his pocket.

Nothing happening, he took his handkerchief from his sleeve, blew his nose therewith and dropped
it (the handkerchief) upon the ground. Seven obliging volunteers darted forward to retrieve it.

"May we expect the evolutions this evening, Colonel?" inquired General Murger politely.

"We are waiting for you to move off, Captain Rozario," stated Colonel Dearman.

"Sir, how can I move off with oll the rest in my front?" inquired Captain Rozario reasonably.

"Form fours, right, and quick march," prompted the Sergeant-Major, and Captain Rozario shrilled
forth:

"Form right fours and march quick," at the top of his voice.

Many members of "G" Company turned to their right and marched towards the setting-sun, while
some turned to their left and marched in the direction of China.

These latter, discovering in good time that they had erred, hurried to rejoin their companions--and
"G" Company was soon in full swing if not in fours....

There is a limit to all enterprise and the march of "G" Company was stayed by a high wall.

Then Captain Rozario had an inspiration.

"About turn," he shrieked--and "G" Company about turned as one man, if not in one direction.

The march of "G" Company was stayed this time by the battalion into which it comfortably nuzzled.

Again Captain Rozario seized the situation and acted promptly and resourcefully.

"Halt!" he squeaked, and "G" Company halted--in form an oblate spheroid.

Some of its members removed their helmets and the sweat of their brows, some re-fastened bootlaces
and putties or unfastened restraining hooks and buttons. One gracefully succumbed to his exertions
and fainting fell, with an eye upon the General.

"Interestin' evolution," remarked that Officer. "Demmed interestin'. May we have some more?"

"Get on, Captain Rozario," implored Colonel Dearman. "Let's see some company-drill."

"One hundred and twenty-five paces backward march," cried Captain Rozario after a brief calculation,
and "G" Company reluctantly detached itself from the battalion, backwards.

"Turn round this away and face to me," continued the gallant Captain, "and then on the left
form good companee."

The oblate spheroid assumed an archipelagic formation, melting into irregularly-placed military
islands upon a sea of dust.

"Oll get together and left dress, please," besought Captain Rozario, and many of the little
islands amalgamated with that on their extreme right while the remainder gravitated to their
left--the result being two continents of unequal dimensions.

As Captain Rozario besought these disunited masses to conjoin, the voice of the General was
heard in the land--

"Kindly order that mob to disperse before it is fired on, will you, Colonel? They can go home
and stay there," said he.

Captain Rozario was a man of sensibility and he openly wept.

No one could call this a good beginning--nor could they have called the ensuing battalion-drill
a good ending.

"Put the remainder of the battalion through some simple movements if they know any," requested
the General.

Determined to retrieve the day yet, Colonel Dearman saluted, cleared his throat terrifically
and shouted: '"Tallish, 'shun!" with such force that a nervous man in the front rank of "A"
Company dropped his rifle and several "presented" arms.

Only one came to the "slope," two to the "trail" and four to the "shoulder".

Men already at attention again stood at ease, while men already at ease again stood at attention.

Disregarding these minor contretemps, Colonel Dearman clearly and emphatically bellowed:--

"The battalion will advance. In succession, advance in fours from the left of companies--"

"Why not tell off the battalion--just for luck?" suggested General Murger.

"Tell off the battalion," said Colonel Dearman in his natural voice and an unnaturally crestfallen
manner.

Captain Trebizondi of "A" Company glared to his front, and instead of replying "Number One"
in a loud voice, held his peace--tight.

But his lips moved constantly, and apparently Captain Trebizondi was engaged in silent prayer.

"Tell off the battalion," bawled the Colonel again.

Captain Trebizondi's lips moved constantly.

"Will you tell off the dam battalion, Sir?" shouted the Colonel at the enrapt supplicant.

Whether Captain Trebizondi is a Mohammedan I am not certain, but, if so, he may have remembered
words of the Prophet to the effect that it is essential to trust in Allah absolutely, and expedient
to tie up your camel yourself, none the less. Captain Trebizondi was trusting in Allah perchance--but
he had not tied up his camel; he had not learnt his drill.

And when Colonel Dearman personally and pointedly appealed to him in the matter of the battalion's
telling-off, he turned round and faced it and said--

"Ah--battalion--er--" in a very friendly and persuasive voice.

Then a drill corporal took it upon him to bawl Number One as Captain Trebizondi should have
done, some one shouted Number Two from "B" Company, the colour-sergeant of "C" bawled Number
Three and then, with ready wit, the Captains of "D," "E," and "F" caught up the idea, and the
thing was done.

So far so good.

And the Colonel returned to his first venture and again announced to the battalion that it
would advance in succession and in fours from the left of companies.

It bore the news with equanimity and Captain Trebizondi visibly brightened at the idea of leaving
the spot on which he had suffered and sweated--but he took no steps in the matter personally.

He tried to scratch his leg through his gaiter.

"'A' Company going this evening?" inquired the General. "Wouldn't hurry you, y'know, but--I
dine at nine."

Captain Trebizondi remembered his parade-manners and threw a chest instead of a stomach.

The jerk caused his helmet to tilt forward over his eyes and settle down slowly and firmly
upon his face as a fallen cliff upon the beach beneath.

"The Officer commanding the leading company appears to be trying to hide," commented General
Murger.

Captain Trebizondi uncovered his face--a face of great promise but no performance.

"Will you march your company off, sir," shouted Colonel Dearman, "the battalion is waiting
for you."

With a look of reproachful surprise and an air of "Why couldn't you say so?" the harassed Captain
agitated his sword violently as a salute, turned to his company and boomed finely:--

"March off!"

The Company obeyed its Commander.

Seeing the thing so easy of accomplishment Captains Allessandropoulos, Schloggenboschenheimer,
Da Costa, Euxino, Spoophitophiles and José gave the same order and the battalion was in motion--marching
to its front in quarter-column instead of wheeling off in fours.

    Unsteadily shoulder from shoulder,
    Unsteadily blade from blade,
    Unsteady and wrong, slouching along,
    Went the boys of the old brigade.

"Halt," roared Colonel Dearman.

"Oh, don't halt 'em," begged General Murger, "it's the most entertainin' show I have ever seen."

The smart and dapper Brigade-Major's mouth was open.

Major Pinto and Captain-and-Acting-Adjutant Petropaulovski forgot to cling to their horses
with hand and heel and so endangered their lives.

The non-commissioned officers of the permanent staff commended their souls to God and marched
as men in a dream.

On hearing the Colonel's cry of "Halt" many of the men halted. Not hearing the Colonel's cry
of "Halt" many of the men did not halt.

In two minutes the battalion was without form and void.

In ten minutes the permanent staff had largely re-sorted it and, to a great extent, re-formed
the original companies.

Captain José offered his subaltern, Lieutenant Bylegharicontractor, a hundred rupees to change
places with him.

Offer refused, with genuine and deep regret, but firmly.

"Shall we have another try, Colonel," inquired General Murger silkily. "Any amount of real
initiative and originality about this Corps. But I am old-fashioned enough to prefer drill-book
evolutions on the barrack-square, I confess. Er--let the Major carry on as it is getting late."

Colonel Dearman's face flushed a rich dark purple. His eyes protruded till they resembled those
of a crab. His red hair appeared to flame like very fire. His lips twitched and he gasped for
breath. Could he believe his ears. "Let the Major carry on as it is getting late!" Let him
step into the breach "as it is getting late!" Let the more competent, though junior, officer
take over the command "as it is getting late". Ho!--likewise Ha! This aged roué, this miserable
wine-bibbing co-respondent, with his tremulous hand and boiled eye, thought that Colonel Dearman
did not know his drill, did he? Wanted the wretched and incompetent Pinto to carry on, did
he?--as it was getting late.

Good! Ha! Likewise Ho! "Let Pinto carry on as it was getting late!"

Very well! If it cost Colonel Dearman every penny he had in the world he would have his revenge
on the insolent scoundrel. He might think he could insult Colonel Dearman's wife with impunity,
he might think himself entitled to cast ridicule on Colonel Dearman's Corps--but "let the Major
carry on as it is getting late!" By God that was too much!--That was the last straw that breaks
the camel's heart--and Colonel Dearman would have his revenge or lose life, honour, and wealth
in the attempt.

Ha! and, moreover, Ho!

The Colonel knew his battalion-drill by heart and backwards. Was it his fault that his officers
were fools and his men damn-fools?

Major Pinto swallowed hard, blinked hard, and breathed hard. Like the Lady of Shallott he felt
that the curse had come upon him.

"Battalion will advance. Quick march," he shouted, as a safe beginning. But the Sergeant-Major
had by this time fully explained to the sweating Captain Trebizondi that he should have given
the order "Form fours. Left. Right wheel. Quick march," when the Colonel had announced that
the battalion would advance "in succession from the left of companies".

Like lightning he now hurled forth the orders. "Form fours. Left. Right wheel. Quick march.",
and the battalion was soon under way with one company in column of fours and the remaining
five companies in line....

Time cures all troubles, and in time "A" Company was pushed and pulled back into line again.

The incident pleased Major Pinto as it wasted the fleeting minutes and gave him a chance to
give the only other order of which he was sure.

"That was oll wrong," said he. "We will now, however, oll advance as 'A' Company did. The arder
will be 'Battalion will advance. In succession, advance in fours from the right of companees.'
Thenn each officer commanding companees will give the arder 'Form fours. Right. Left wheel.
Quick march' one after thee other."

And the Major gave the order.

To the surprise of every living soul upon the parade-ground the manoeuvre was correctly executed
and the battalion moved off in column of fours. And it kept on moving. And moving. For Major
Pinto had come to the end of his tether.

"Do something, man," said Colonel Dearman with haughty scorn, after some five minutes of strenuous
tramping had told severely on the morale of the regiment.

And Major Pinto, hoping for the best and fearing the worst, lifted up his voice and screamed:--

"On the right form battalion!"

Let us draw a veil.

The adjective that General Murger used with the noun he called the Gungapur Fusiliers is not
to be printed.

The address he made to that Corps after it had once more found itself would have led a French
or Japanese regiment to commit suicide by companies, taking the time from the right. A Colonel
of Romance Race would have fallen on his sword at once (and borrowed something more lethal
had it failed to penetrate).

But the corps, though not particularly British, was neither French nor Japanese and was very
glad of the rest while the General talked. And Colonel Dearman, instead of falling on his sword,
fell on General Murger (in spirit) and swore to be revenged tenfold.

He would have his own back, cost what it might, or his name was not Dearman--and he was going
Home on leave immediately after the Volunteer Annual Camp of Exercise, just before General
Murger retired....

"I shall inspect your corps in camp," General Murger had said, "and the question of its disbandment
may wait until I have done so."

Disbandment! The question of the disbandment of the fine and far-famed Fusiliers of Gungapur
could wait till then, could it? Well and good! Ha! and likewise Ho!

On Captain John Robin Ross-Ellison's return from leave, Colonel Dearman told that officer of
General Murger's twofold insult--to Colonel Dearman's wife and to Colonel Dearman's Corps.
On hearing of the first, Captain Ross-Ellison showed his teeth in a wolfish and ugly manner,
and, on hearing of the second, propounded a scheme of vengeance that made Colonel Dearman grin
and then burst into a roar of laughter. He bade Captain Ross-Ellison dine with him and elaborate
details of the scheme.

       *       *       *       *       *

To rumours of General Murger's failing health and growing alcoholism Colonel Dearman listened
with interest--nay, satisfaction. Stories of seizures, strokes and "goes" of delirium tremens
met with no rebuke nor contradiction from him--and an air of leisured ease and unanxious peacefulness
pervaded the Gungapur Fusiliers. If any member had thought that the sad performance of the
fatal Saturday night and the winged words of General Murger were to be the prelude to period
of fierce activity and frantic preparation, he was mistaken. It was almost as though Colonel
Dearman believed that General Murger would not live to carry out his threat.

The corps paraded week by week, fell in, marched round the ground and fell out again. There
was no change of routine, no increase of work, no stress, no strain.

All was peace, the corps was happy, and in the fullness of time (and the absence of the Adjutant)
it went to Annual Camp of Exercise a few miles from Gungapur. And there the activities of Captain
John Robin Ross-Ellison and a large band of chosen men were peculiar. While the remainder,
with whom went Colonel Dearman, the officers, and the permanent staff, marched about in the
usual manner and enjoyed the picnic, these others appeared to be privately and secretly rehearsing
a more specialized part--to the mystification and wonder of the said remainder. Even on the
great day, the day of the Annual Inspection, this division was maintained and the "remainder"
were marched off to the other side of the wood adjacent to the Camp, some couple of hours before
the expected arrival of the General, who would come out by train.

The arrangement was that the horses of the General and the Brigade-Major should await those
officers at the camp station, and that, on arrival, they would be mounted by their owners who
would then ride to the camp, a furlong distant. Near the camp a mounted orderly would meet
the General and escort him to the spot where the battalion, with Colonel Dearman at its head,
would be drawn up for his inspection.

A large bungalow, used as the Officers' Mess, a copse, and a hillock completely screened the
spot used as the battalion parade-ground, from the view of one approaching the Camp, and the
magnificent sight of the Gungapur Fusiliers under arms would burst upon him only when he rounded
the corner of a wall of palms, cactus, and bamboos, and entered by a narrow gap between it
and a clump of dense jungle.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Murger was feeling distinctly bad as he sat on the edge of his bed and viewed with
the eye of disfavour the choti hazri[51] set forth for his delectation.

  [51] "Little presence," early breakfast, petit déjeuner.

As he intended to inspect the Volunteers in the early morning and return to a mid-day breakfast,
the choti hazri was substantial, though served on a tray in his bedroom.

The General yawned, rubbed his eyes and grunted.

"Eggs be demmed," said he.

"Toast be demmed," he said.

"Tea be demmed," he shouted.

"Paté de fois gras be demmed," shouted he.

"Jobler! Bring me a bottle of beer," he roared.

"No, bring me a brandy-cocktail," roared he.

For the brandy-cocktail the General felt better for a time but he wished, first, that his hand
would not shake in such a way that hair-brushing was difficult and shaving impossible; secondly,
that the prevailing colour of everything was not blue; thirdly, that he did not feel giddy
when he stood up; fourthly, that his head did not ache; fifthly, that his mouth would provide
some other flavour than that of a glue-coated copper coin; sixthly, that things would keep
still and his boots cease to smile at him from the corner; seventhly, that he had not gone
to the St. Andrew's dinner last night, begun on punch à la Romaine, continued on neat whisky
in quaichs and finished on port, liqueurs, champagne and haphazard brandy-and-sodas, whisky-and-sodas,
and any old thing that was handy; and eighthly, that he had had a quart of beer instead of
the brandy-cocktail for choti hazri.

But that could easily be remedied by having the beer now. The General had the beer and soon
wished that he hadn't, for it made him feel very bad indeed.

However, a man must do his dooty, ill or well, and when the Brigade-Major sent up to remind
the General that the train went at seven, he was answered by the General himself and a hint
that he was officious. During the brief train-journey the General slumbered.

On mounting his horse, the General was compelled to work out a little sum.

If one has four fingers there must be three inter-finger spaces, eh? Granted. Then how the
devil are four reins to go into three places between four fingers, eh? Absurd idea, an' damsilly.
However, till the matter was referred to the War Office and finally settled, one could put
two reins between two fingers or pass one outside the lill' finger, what? But the General hated
compromises.... The mounted orderly met the General, saluted and directed him to the entrance
to the tree-encircled camp and parade-ground.

At the entrance, the General, leading, reined in so sharply as to throw his horse on its haunches--his
mouth fell open, his mottled face went putty-coloured, and each hair that he possessed appeared
to bristle.

He uttered a deep groan, rubbed his eyes, emitted a yell, wheeled round and galloped for dear
life, with a cry, nay a scream, of "I've got 'em at last," followed by his utterly bewildered
but ever-faithful Brigade-Major, who had seen nothing but foliage, scrub, and cactus. To Gungapur
the General galloped without drawing rein, took to his bed, sent for surgeon and priest--and
became a teetotaller.

And what had he seen?

The affair is wrapped in mystery.

The Brigade-Major says nothing because he knows nothing, as it happens, and the Corps declared
it was never inspected. Father Ignatius knows what the General saw, or thinks he saw, and so
does the Surgeon-General, but neither is in the habit of repeating confessions and confidences.
What Jobler, at the keyhole, understood him to say he had seen, or thought he had seen, is
not to be believed.

Judge of it.

"I rode into the dem place and what did I behold? A dem pandemonium, Sir, a pantomime--a lunatic
asylum, Sir--all Hell out for a Bank Holiday, I tell you. There was a battalion of Red Indians,
Negroes, Esquimaux, Ballet Girls, Angels, Sweeps, Romans, Sailors, Pierrots, Savages, Bogeymen,
Ancient Britons, Bishops, Zulus, Pantaloons, Beef-eaters, Tramps, Life-Guards, Washerwomen,
Ghosts, Clowns and God-knows-what, armed with jezails, umbrellas, brooms, catapults, pikes,
brickbats, kukeries,[52] pokers, clubs, axes, horse-pistols, bottles, dead fowls, polo-sticks,
assegais and bombs. They were commanded by a Highlander in a bum-bee tartan kilt, top-hat and
one sock, with a red nose a foot long, riding on a rocking horse and brandishing a dem great
cucumber and a tea-tray made into a shield. There was a thundering great drain-pipe mounted
on a bullock-cart and a naked man, painted blue, in a cocked-hat, laying an aim and firing
a penny-pistol down the middle of it and yelling 'Pip!'

  [52] Ghurka knives.

"There was a chauffeur in smart livery on an elephant, twirling a steering-wheel on its neck
for dear life, and tooting a big motor-horn.. There was a fat man in a fireman's helmet and
pyjamas, armed with a peashooter, riding a donkey backwards--and the moke wore two pairs of
trousers!... As I rubbed my poor old eyes, the devil in command howled 'General salaam. Present-legs'--and
every fiend there fell flat on his face and raised his right leg up behind--I tell you, Sir,
I fled for my life, and--no more liquor for me." ...

When ex-Colonel Dearman heard any reference to this mystery he roared with laughter--but it
was the Last Muster of the fine and far-famed Gungapur Fusiliers, as such.

The Corps was disbanded forthwith and re-formed on a different basis (of quality instead of
quantity) with Lieutenant-Colonel John Robin Ross-Ellison, promoted, in command--he having
caught the keen eye of that splendid soldier and gentleman Lieutenant-General Sir Arthur Barnet,
K.C.V.O., K.C.S.I. (G.O.C., XVIth Division), as being the very man for the job of re-organizing
the Corps, and making it worth its capitation-grant.

"If I could get Captain Malet-Marsac as Adjutant and a Sergeant-Major of whom I know (used
to be at Duri--man named Lawrence-Smith) I'd undertake to show you something, Sir, in a year
or two," said Lieutenant-Colonel Ross-Ellison.

"Malet-Marsac you can certainly have," replied Sir Arthur Barnet. "I'll speak to your new Brigadier.
If you can find your Lawrence-Smith we'll see what can be done." ...

And Lieutenant-Colonel Ross-Ellison wrote to Sergeant-Major Lawrence-Smith of the Duri Volunteer
Rifles to know if he would like a transfer upon advantageous terms, and got no reply.

As it happened, Lieutenant-Colonel Ross-Ellison, in very different guise, had seen Sergeant
Lawrence-Smith extricate and withdraw his officerless company from the tightest of tight places
(on the Border) in a manner that moved him to large admiration.

§ 3. SERGEANT-MAJOR LAWRENCE-SMITH.

Mrs. Pat Dearman was sceptical.

"Do you mean to tell me that you, a man of science, an eminent medical man, and a soldier,
believe in the supernatural?"

"Well, you see, I'm 'Oirish' and therefore unaccountable," replied Colonel Jackson (of the
Royal Army Medical Corps), fine doctor, fine scholar, and fine gentleman.

"And you believe in haunted houses and ghosts and things, do you? Well!"

The salted-almond dish was empty, and Mrs. Dearman accused her other neighbour, Mr. John Robin
Ross-Ellison. Having already prepared to meet and rebut the charge of greediness he made passes
over the vessel and it was replenished.

"Supernatural!" said she.

"Most," said he.

She prudently removed the dish to the far side of her plate--and Colonel Jackson emptied it.

Not having prepared to meet the request to replenish the store a second time, it was useless
for Mr. Ross-Ellison to make more passes when commanded so to do.

"The usual end of the 'supernatural,'" observed Mrs. Dearman with contempt.

"Most usual," said he.

"More than 'most,'" corrected Mrs. Dearman. "It is the invariable end of it, I believe. Just
humbug and rubbish. It is either an invention, pure and simple, or else it is perfectly explicable.
Don't you think so, Colonel Jackson?"

"Not always," said her partner. "Now, will you, first, believe my word, and, secondly, find
the explanation--if I tell you a perfectly true 'supernatural' story?"

"I'll certainly believe your word, Colonel, if you're serious, and I'll try and suggest an
explanation if you like," replied Mrs. Dearman.

"Same to me, Mrs. Dearman?" asked Mr. Ross-Ellison. "I've had 'experiences' too--and can tell
you one of them."

"Same to you, Mr. Ross-Ellison," replied Mrs. Dearman, and added: "But why only one of them?"

Mr. Ross-Ellison smiled, glanced round the luxuriously appointed table and the company of fair
women and brave men--and thought of a far-distant and little-known place called Mekran Kot
and of a phantom cavalry corps that haunted a valley in its vicinity.

"Only one worth telling," said he.

"Well,--first case," began Colonel Jackson, "I was once driving past a cottage on my way home
from College (in Ireland), and I saw the old lady who lived in that cottage come out of the
door, cross her bit of garden, go through a gate, scuttle over the railway-line and enter a
fenced field that had belonged to her husband, and which she (and a good many other people)
believed rightly belonged to her.

"'There goes old Biddy Maloney pottering about in that plot of ground again,' thinks I. 'She's
got it on the brain since her law-suit.' I knew it was Biddy, of course, not only because of
her coming out of Biddy's house, but because it was Biddy's figure, walk, crutch-stick, and
patched old cloak. When I got home I happened to say to Mother: 'I saw poor old Biddy Maloney
doddering round that wretched field as I came along'.

"'What?' said my mother, 'why, your father was called to her, as she was dying, hours ago,
and she's not been out of her bed for weeks.' When my father came in, I learned that Biddy
was dead an hour before I saw her--before I left the railway station in fact! What do you make
of that? Is there any 'explanation'?"

"Some other old lady," suggested Mrs. Dearman.

"No. There was nobody else in those parts mistakable for Biddy Maloney, and no other old woman
was in or near the house while my father was there. We sifted the matter carefully. It was
Biddy Maloney and no one else."

"Auto-suggestion. Visualization on the retina of an idea in the mind. Optical illusion," hazarded
Mrs. Dearman.

"No good. I hadn't realized I was approaching Biddy Maloney's cottage until I saw her coming
out of it and I certainly hadn't thought of Biddy Maloney until my eye fell upon her. And it's
a funny optical illusion that deceives one into seeing an old lady opening gates, crossing
railways and limping away into fenced fields."

"H'm! What was the other case?" asked Mrs. Dearman, turning to Mr. Ross-Ellison.

"That happened here in India at a station called Duri, away in the Northern Presidency, where
I was then--er--living for a time. On the day after my arrival I went to call on Malet-Marsac
to whom I had letters of introduction--political business--and, as he was out, but certain
to return in a minute or two from Parade, I sat me down in a comfortable chair in the verandah----"

"And went to sleep?" interrupted Mrs. Dearman.

'"I nevah sleep,'" quoted Mr. Ross-Ellison, "and I had no time, if any inclination. Scarcely
indeed had I seated myself, and actually while I was placing my topi on an adjacent stool,
a lady emerged from a distant door at the end of the verandah and walked towards me. I can
tell you I was mighty surprised, for not only was Captain Malet-Marsac a lone bachelor and
a misogynist of blameless life, but the lady looked as though she had stepped straight out
of an Early Victorian phonograph-album. She had on a crinoline sort of dress, a deep lace collar,
spring-sidey sort of boots, mittens, and a huge cameo brooch. Also she had long ringlets. Her
face is stamped on my memory and I could pick her out from a hundred women similarly dressed,
or her picture from a hundred others...."

"What did you do?" asked Mrs. Dearman, whose neglected ice-pudding was fast being submerged
in a pink lake of its own creation.

"Do? Nothing. I grabbed my topi, stood up, bowed--and looked silly."

"And what did the lady do?"

"Came straight on, taking no notice whatsoever of me, until she reached the steps leading into
the porch and garden.... She passed down these and out of my sight.... That is the plain statement
of an actual fact. Have you any 'explanation' to offer?"

"Well--what about a lady staying there, unexpectedly and unbeknownst (to the station), trying
on a get-up for a Fancy Dress Ball. Going as 'My ancestress' or something?" suggested Mrs. Dearman.

"Exactly what I told myself, though I knew it was nothing of the kind.... Well, five minutes
later Malet-Marsac rode up the drive and we were soon fraternizing over cheroots and cold drinks....
As I was leaving, an idea struck me, and I saw a way to ask a question--which was burning my
tongue,--without being too rudely inquisitive.

"'By the way,' said I, 'I fear I did not send in the right number of visiting cards, but they
told me there was no lady here, so I only sent in one--for you.'

"'There is no lady here,' he replied, eyeing me queerly. 'What made you think you had been
misinformed?'

"'Well,' said I bluntly, 'a lady came out of the end room just now, walked down the verandah,
and went out into the garden. You'd better see if anything is missing as she's not an inhabitant!'

"'No--there won't be anything missing,' he replied. 'Did she wear a crinoline and a general
air of last century?'

"'She did,' said I.

"'Our own private ghost,' was the answer--and it was the sort of statement I had anticipated.
Now I solemnly assure you that at that time I had never heard, read, nor dreamed that there
was a 'ghost' in this bungalow, nor in Duri--nor in the whole Northern Presidency for that
matter....

"'What's the story?' I asked, of course.

"'Mutiny. 1857,' said Malet-Marsac. 'Husband shot on the parade-ground. She got the news and
marched straight to the spot. They cut her in pieces as she held his body in her arms. Lots
of people have seen her--anywhere between that room and the parade-ground.'

"'Then you have to believe in ghosts--in Duri, or how do you account for it?' I asked.

"'I don't bother my head,' he replied. 'But I have seen that poor lady a good many times. And
no one told me a word about her until after I had seen her.'"

And then Mrs. Dearman suddenly rose, as her hostess "caught" the collective female eye of the
table.

"Was all that about the 'ghosts' of the old Irishwoman and the Early Victorian Lady true, you
fellows?" asked John Bruce, the Professor of Engineering, after coffee, cigars and the second
glass of port had reconciled the residue or sediment to the departure of the sterner sex.

"Didn't you hear me say my story was true?" replied Colonel Jackson brusquely. "It was absolutely
and perfectly true."

"Same here," added Mr. Ross-Ellison.

"Then on two separate occasions you two have seen what you can only believe to be the ghosts
of dead people?"

"On one occasion I have, without any possibility of error or doubt, seen the ghost of a dead
person," said Colonel Jackson.

"Have you ever come across any other thoroughly substantiated cases of ghost-seeing--cases
which have really convinced you, Colonel?" queried Mr. Ross-Ellison--being deeply interested
in the subject by reason of queer powers and experiences of his own.

"Yes. Many in which I fully believe, and one about which I am certain. A very interesting case--and
a very cruel tragedy."

"Would you mind telling me about it?" asked Mr. Ross-Ellison.

"Pleasure. More--I'll give you as interesting and convincing a 'human document' about it as
ever you read, if you like."

"I shall be eternally grateful," replied the other.

"It was a sad and sordid business. The man, whose last written words I'll give you to read,
was a Sergeant-Major in the Volunteer Rifles (also at Duri where I was stationed, as you know)
and he was a gentleman born and bred, poor chap." ["Lawrence-Smith," murmured Mr. John Robin
Ross-Ellison with an involuntary movement of surprise. His eyebrows rose and his jaw fell.]
"Yes, he was that rare bird a gentleman-ranker who remained a gentleman and a ranker--and became
a fine soldier. He called himself Lawrence-Smith and owned a good old English name that you'd
recognize if I mentioned it--and you'd be able to name some of his relatives too. He was kicked
out of Sandhurst for striking one of the subordinate staff under extreme provocation. The army
was in his blood and bones, and he enlisted."

"Excuse me," interrupted Mr. Ross-Ellison, "you speak of this Sergeant-Major Lawrence-Smith
in the past tense. Is he dead then?"

"He is dead," replied Colonel Jackson. "Did you know him?"

"I believe I saw him at Duri," answered Mr. Ross-Ellison with an excellent assumption of indifference.
"What's the story?"

"I'll give you his own tale on paper--let me have it back--and, mind you, every single word
of it is Gospel truth. The man was a gentleman, an educated, thoughtful, sober chap, and as
sane as you or I. I got to know him well--he was in hospital, with blood-poisoning from panther-bite,
for a time--and we became friends. Actual friends, I mean. Used to play golf with him. (You
remember the Duri Links.) In mufti, you'd never have dreamed for a moment that he was not a
Major or a Colonel. Army life had not coarsened him in the slightest, and he kept some lounge-suits
and mess-kit by Poole. Many a good Snob of my acquaintance has left my house under the impression
that the Lawrence-Smith he had met there, and with whom he had been hail-fellow-well-met, was
his social equal or superior.

"He simply was a refined and educated gentleman and that's all there is about it. Well--you'll
read his statement--and, as you read, you may tell yourself that I am as convinced of its truth
as I am of anything in this world.... He was dead when I got to him.

"The stains, on the backs of some of the sheets and on the front of the last one, are--blood
stains...."

And at this point their host suggested the propriety of joining the ladies....

Colonel Jackson gave Mr. Ross-Ellison a "lift" in his powerful motor as far as his bungalow,
entered, and a few minutes later emerged with a long and fat envelope.

"Here you are," said he. "I took it upon myself to annex the papers as I was his friend. Let's
have 'em back. No need for me to regard them as 'private and confidential' so far as I can
see, poor chap. Good-night."

Having achieved the haven of loose Pathan trousers and a muslin shirt (worn over them) in the
privacy of his bed-room, Mr. Ross-Ellison, looking rather un-English, sat on a camp-cot (he
never really liked chairs) and read, as follows, from a sheaf of neatly-written (and bloodstained)
sheets of foolscap.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have come to the point at which I decide to stop. I have had enough. But I should like to
ask one or two questions.

1. Why has a man no right to quit a world in which he no longer desires to live? 2. Why should
Evil be allowed to triumph? 3. Why should people who cannot see spirit forms be so certain
that such do not exist, when none but an ignorant fool argues, "I believe in what I can see"?

With regard to the first question I maintain that a man has a perfect right to "take" the life
that was "given" him (without his own consent or desire), provided it is not an act of cowardice
nor an evasion of just punishment or responsibility. I would add--provided also that he does
not, in so doing, basely desert his duty, those who are in any way dependent on him, or those
who really love him.

I detest that idiotic phrase "while of unsound mind". I am as sound in mind as any man living,
but because I end an unbearable state of affairs, and take the only step I can think of as
likely to give me peace--I shall be written down mad. Moreover should I fail--in my attempt
to kill myself (which I shall not) I should be prosecuted as a criminal!

To me, albeit I have lived long under strict discipline and regard true discipline as the first
essential of moral, physical, mental, and social training, to me it seems a gross and unwarrantable
interference with the liberty of the individual--to deny him sufficient captaincy of his soul
for him to be free to control it at the dictates of his conscience, and to keep it Here or
to send it There as may seem best. Surely the implanted love of life and fear of death are
sufficient safeguards without any legislation or insolent arrogant interference between a man
and his own ego? Anyhow, such are my views, and in perfect soundness of mind and body, after
mature reflection and with full confidence in my right so to do, I am about to end my life here.

As to the second question, "Why should Evil be allowed to triumph?" I confess that my mind
cannot argue in a circle and say, "You are born full of Original Sin, and if you sin you are
Damned"--a vicious circle drawn for me by the gloomy, haughty, insincere and rather unintelligent
young gentleman whom I respectfully salute as Chaplain, and who regards me and every other
non-commissioned soldier as a Common, if not Low, person.

He would not even answer my queries by means of the good old loop-hole, "It is useless to appeal
to Reason if you cannot to Faith" and so beg the question. He said that things were because
the Lord said they were, and that it was impious to doubt it. More impious was it, I gathered,
to doubt him, and to allude to Criticisms he had never read.

His infallible "proof" was "It is in the Bible".

Possibly I shall shortly know why an Omnipotent, Omniscient, Impeccable Deity allows this world
to be the Hell it is, even if there be no actual Hell for the souls of his errant Creatures
(in spite of the statements of the Chaplain who appears to have exclusive information on the
subject, inaccessible to laymen, and to rest peacefully assured of a Real Hell for the wicked,--nonconforming,
and vulgar).

At present I cannot understand and I do not know--though I am informed and infused with a burning
and reverent desire to understand and to know--why Evil should be allowed to triumph, as in
my own case, as well as in those of millions of others, it does. And thirdly, why does the
man who would never deny beauty in a poem or picture because he failed to see it while others
did, deny that immaterial forms of the dead exist, because he has never seen one, though others
have?

I know of so many many men who would blush to be called "I-believe-what-I-see men," who yet
laugh to scorn the bare idea of the materialization and visualization of visitants from the
spirit world, because they have never seen one. I have so often met the argument, "The ghost
of a man I might conceive--but I can not conceive the appearance of the ghost of a pair of
trousers or of a top-hat," offered as though it were unanswerable. Surely the spirit, aura,
shade, ghost, soul, ego--what you will--can permeate and penetrate and pervade clothing and
other matter as well as flesh?

Well, once again, I do not know,--and yet I have seen, not once but repeatedly, not by moonlight
in a churchyard, but under the Indian sun on a parade-ground, the ghost of a man and of all
his accoutrements,--of a rifle, of a horse and all a horse's trappings.

I have been a teetotaller for years, I have never had sunstroke and I am as absolutely sane
as ever a man was.

And further I am in no sense remorseful, repentant, or "dogged by the spectre of an evil deed".

I killed Burker intentionally. Were he alive again I would kill him again. I punished him myself
because the law could not punish him as he deserved, and I in no way regret or deplore my just
and judicial action. There are deeds a gentleman must resent and punish--with the extreme penalty.
No, it is in no sense a case of the self-tormented wretch driven mad by the awful hallucinations
of his guilty, unhinged mind. I am no haunted murderer pursued by phantoms and illusions, believing
himself always in the presence of his victim's ghost.

All people who have read anything, have read of the irresistible fascination that the scene
of the murder has for the murderer, of the way in which the victim "haunts" the slayer, and
of how the truth that "murder will out" is really based on the fact that the murderer is his
own most dangerous accuser by reason of his life of terror, remorse, and terrible hallucination.

My case is in no wise parallel.

I am absolutely without fear, regret, remorse, repentance, dread or terror in the matter of
my killing Sergeant Burker. Exactly how and why I killed him, and how and why I am about to
kill myself, I will now set forth, without the slightest exaggeration, special pleading or
any other deviation from the truth....

I am to my certain knowledge the eighth consecutive member of my family, in the direct line,
to follow the profession of arms, but am the first to do so without bearing a commission. My
father died young in the rank of Captain, my grandfather led his own regiment in the Crimea,
my great-grandfather was a Lieutenant-General, and, if I told you my real name, you could probably
state something that he did at Waterloo.

I went to Sandhurst and I was expelled from Sandhurst--very rightly and justly--for an offence,
or rather the culminating offence of a series of offences, that were everything but mean, dishonest
or underhand. I was wild, hasty, undisciplined and I was lost for want of a father to thrash
me as a boy, and by possession of a most loving and devoted mother who worshipped, spoiled--and
ruined me.

I enlisted under an assumed name in my late father's (and grandfather's) old Regiment of Foot
and quickly rose to the rank of Sergeant-Major.

I might have had a commission in South Africa but I decided that I preferred ruling in hell
to serving in heaven, and declined to be a grey-haired Lieutenant and a nuisance to the Officers'
Mess of the Corps I would not leave until compelled.

In time I was compelled and I became Sergeant-Major of the Volunteer Rifle Corps here and husband
of a--well--de mortuis nil nisi bonum.

Why I married I don't know.

The English girl of the class from which soldiers are drawn never attracted me in the very
least, and I simply could not have married one, though a paragon of virtue and compendium of
housewifely qualities.

Admirable and pretty as Miss Higgs, Miss Bloggs, or Miss Muggins might be, my youthful training
prevented my seeing beyond her fringe, finger-nails, figure, and aspirates, to her solid excellences;--and
from sergeants'-dances I returned quite heart-whole and still unplighted to the Colonel's cook.
But Dolores De Souza was different.

There was absolutely nothing to offend the most fastidious taste in her speech, appearance,
or manners. She was convent-bred, accomplished, refined, gentle, worthless and wicked. The
good Sisters of the Society of the Broken Heart had polished the exterior of the Eurasian orphan
very highly--but the polish was a thin veneer on very cheap and unseasoned wood.

It is a strange fact that, while I could respect the solid virtues of the aspirateless Misses
Higgs, Bloggs or Muggins, I could never have married one of them; yet, while I knew Dolores
to be a heartless flirt, and more than suspected her to be of most unrigid principle, I was
infatuated with her dark beauty, her grace, her wiles and witchery--and asked her to become
my wife.

The good Sisters of the Society of the Broken Heart had taught Dolores to sing beautifully,
to play upon the piano and the guitar, to embroider, to paint mauve roses on pink tambourines
and many other useful arts, graces and accomplishments--but they had not taught her practical
morality nor anything of cooking, marketing, plain sewing, house-cleaning or anything else
of house-keeping. However, having been bred as I had been bred, I could take the form and let
the substance go, accept the shapely husks and shout not for the grain, and prefer a pretty
song, and a rose in black hair over a shell-like ear, to a square meal. I fear the average
Sergeant-Major would have beaten Dolores within a week of matrimony, but I strove to make loss,
discomfort, and disappointment a discipline,--and music, silk dresses and daintiness an aesthetic
re-training to a barrack-blunted mind.

In justice to Dolores I should make it clear that she was not of the slatternly, dirty, lazy,
half-breed type that pigs in a peignoir from twelve to twelve and snores again from midnight
to midday. She was trim and dainty, used good perfume or none, rose early and went in the garden,
loathed cheap and showy trash whether in dress, jewellery, or furniture; and was incapable
of wearing fine shoes over holey stockings or a silk gown over dirty linen. No--there was nothing
to offend the fastidious about Dolores, but there was everything to offend the good house-keeper
and the moralist.

Frequently she would provide no dinner in order that we might be compelled to dine in public
at a restaurant or a hotel, a thing she loved to do, and she would often send out for costly
sweets and pastry, drink champagne (very moderately, I admit), and generally behave as though
she were the wife of a man of means.

And she was an arrant, incorrigible, shameless flirt.

Well--I do not know that a virtuous vulgar dowd is preferable to a wicked winsome witch of
refined habits and person, and I should probably have gone quietly on to bankruptcy without
any row or rupture, but for Burker. Having been bred in a "gentle" home I naturally took the
attitude of "as you please, my dear Dolores" and refrained from bullying when quiet indication
of the inevitable end completely failed. Whether she intended to act in a reasonable manner
and show some wifely traits when my £250 of legacy and savings was quite dissipated I do not
know. Burker came before that consummation.

A number of gentlemen joined the Duri Volunteer Corps and formed a Mounted Infantry troop,
and, though I am a good horseman, I was not competent to train the troop, as I had never enjoyed
any experience of mounted military work of any kind. So Sergeant Burker, late of the 54th Lancers,
was transferred to Duri as Instructor of the Mounted Infantry Troop. Naturally I did what I
could to make him comfortable and, till his bungalow was furnished after a fashion, gave him
our spare room.

Sergeant Barker was the ideal Cavalryman and the ideal breaker of hearts,--hearts of the Mary-Ann
and Eliza-Jane order.

He was a black-haired, blue-eyed Irishman with a heart as black as his hair, and language as
blue as his eye--a handsome, plausible, selfish, wicked devil with scarcely a virtue but pride
and high courage. I disliked him at first sight, and Dolores fell in love with him equally
quickly, I am sure.

I don't think he had a solitary gentlemanly instinct.

Being desirous of learning Mounted Infantry work, I attended all his drills, riding as troop-leader,
and, between close attention to him and close study of the drill-book, did not let the gentlemen
in the ranks know that, in the beginning, I knew as little about it as they did.

And an uncommonly good troop he soon made of it, too.

Of course it was excellent material, all good riders and good shots, and well horsed.

Burker and I were mounted by the R.H.A. Battery here, and the three drills we held, weekly,
were seasons of delight to a horse-lover like myself.

Now the horse I had was a high-spirited, powerful animal, and he possessed the trait, very
common among horses, of hating to be pressed behind the saddle. Turning to look behind while
"sitting-easy" one day I rested my right hand on his back behind the saddle and he immediately
lashed out furiously with both hind legs. I did not realize for the moment what was upsetting
him--but quickly discovered that I had only to press his back to send his hoofs out like stones
from a sling. I then remembered other similar cases and that I had also read of this curious
fact about horses--something to do with pressure on the kidneys I believe.

One day Burker was unexpectedly absent and I took the drill, finding myself quite competent
and au fait.

The same evening I went to my wife's wardrobe, she being out, to try and find the keys of the
sideboard. I knew they frequently reposed in the pocket of her dressing-gown.

In the said pocket they were--and so was a letter in the crude large handwriting of Sergeant
Burker.

I did not read it, but I did not see the necessity of a correspondence between my wife and
such a man as I knew Sergeant Burker to be. They met often enough, in all conscience, to say
what they might have to say to each other.

At dinner I remarked casually: "I shouldn't enter into a correspondence with Burker if I were
you, Dolly. His reputation isn't over savoury and--" but, before I could say more, my wife
was literally screaming with rage, calling me "Spy," "Liar," "Coward," and demanding to know
what I insinuated and of what I accused her. I replied that I had accused her of nothing at
all, and merely offered advice in the matter of correspondence with Burker. I explained how
I had come to find the letter and stated that I had not read it.

"Then how do you know that we--" she began, and suddenly stopped.

"That you--what?" I inquired.

"Nothing," she said.

At the next Sergeants' Dance at the Institute I did not like Burker's manner to my wife at
all. It was--well, amorous, and tinged with a shade of proprietorship. I distinctly heard him
call her "Dolly," and equally distinctly saw an expressively affectionate look in her eyes
as he hugged her in the waltzes--whereof they indulged in no less than five.

My position was awkward and unpleasant. I loathe a row or a scene unspeakably--though I delight
in fighting when that pastime is legitimate--and I was brought into daily contact with the
ruffian and I disliked him intensely.

I was very averse from the course of forbidding him the house and thus insulting my wife by
implication--since she obviously enjoyed his society--and descending to pit myself against
the greasy cad in a struggle for a woman's favour, and that woman my own wife. Nor could I
conscientiously take the line of, "If she desires to go to the Devil let her," for a man has
as much responsibility for his wife as for his children, and it is equally his duty to guide
and control her and them. Women may vote and may legislate for men--but on men they will ever
depend and rely.

No, the position of carping, jealous husband was one that I could not fill, and I determined
to say nothing, do nothing and be watchful--watchful, that is, to avoid exposing her to temptation.
I did my best, but I was away from home a good deal, visiting the out-station detachments of
the Corps.

Then, one day, the wretched creature I called "butler" came to me with an air of great mystery
and said: "Sahib, Sergeant Burker Sahib sending Mem Sahib bundle of flowers and chitti[53]
inside and diamond ring yesterday. His boy telling me and I seeing. He often coming here too
when Sahib out. Both wicked peoples."

  [53] Note.

I raised my hand to knock his lies down his throat--and dropped it. They were not lies, I knew,
and the fellow had been faithful to me for many years and--the folly of childish human vanity--I
felt he knew I was a "gentleman," and I liked him for it.

I paid him his wages then and there, gave him a present and a good testimonial and discharged
him. He wept real tears and shook with sobs of grief--easy grief, but very genuine.

When Dolores came home from the Bandstand I said quietly: "Show me the jewellery Burker sent
you, Dolly. I am very much in earnest, so don't bluster."

She seemed about to faint and looked very frightened--perhaps my face was more expressive than
a gentleman's should be.

"It was only a little thing for my birthday," she whined. "Can't I keep it? Don't be a tyrant
or a fool."

"Your next birthday or your last?" I asked. "Please get it at once. We'll settle matters quietly
and finally."

I fear the poor girl had visions of the doorstep and a closed door. Two, perhaps, for I am
sure Burker would not have taken her in if I had turned her out, and she may have thought the same.

It was a diamond ring, and the scoundrel must have given a couple of months' pay for it--if
he had paid for it at all. I thrust aside the sudden conviction that Burker's own taste could
not have been responsible for its choice and that it was selected by my wife.

"Why should he give you this, Dolores?" I asked. "Will you tell me or must I go to him?" And
then she burst into tears and flung herself at my feet, begging for mercy.

Mercy!

Qui s'excuse s'accuse.

What should I do?

To cast her out was to murder her soul quickly and her body slowly, and I could foresee her
career with prophetic eye and painful clearness.

And what could the Law do for me?

Publish our shame and perhaps brand me that wretched thing--the willingly deceived and complaisant
husband.

What could I do by challenging Burker?

He was a champion man-at-arms, a fine boxer, and a younger, stronger man, I should merely experience
humiliation and defeat. What could I do?

If I said, "Go and live with your Burker," I should be committing a bigger crime than hers,
for if he did take her in, it would not be for long.

I sat the night through, pondered the question carefully, looked at it from all points of view
and--decided that Burker must die. Also that he must not drag me to jail or the scaffold as
he went to his doom. If I shot him and was punished, Dolores would become a--well, as I have
said, her soul would die quickly and her body slowly. I had married Dolores and I must do what
lay in my power to protect Dolores. But I simply could not kill the hound in some stealthy
secret manner and wait for the footsteps of warrant-armed police for the rest of my life.

What could I do? Or rather--for the question had narrowed to that--how could I kill him?

And as the sun struck upon my eyes at dawn, an idea struck upon my mind.

I would leave it to Fate and if Fate willed it so, Burker should die.

If Burker stood behind my charger, Fate sat with down-turned thumb.

I would not seek the opportunity--but, by God, I would take it if it offered.

If it did not, I would go to Burker and say to him quietly: "Burker, you must leave this station
at once and never see or communicate with my wife in any way. Otherwise I have to kill you,
Burker--to execute you, you understand." ...

A native syce from the Artillery lines led my charger into the little compound of my tiny bungalow.

Having buckled on my belt I went out, patted him, and gave him a lump of sugar. He nuzzled
me for more, and, as he did so, I placed my hand on his back, behind the saddle, and pressed.
He lashed out wildly.

I then trotted across the maidan[54] to the Volunteer Headquarters and parade-ground.

  [54] Plain; level tract of ground.

Several gentlemen of the Mounted Infantry were waiting about, some standing by their horses,
some getting bandoliers, belts, and rifles, some cantering their horses round the ground.

Sergeant Burker strode out of the Orderly Boom.

"Morning, Smith," said he. "How's the Missus?"

I looked him in the eye and made no reply.

He laughed, as jeering, evil, and caddish a laugh as I have ever heard. I almost forgot my
purpose and had actually turned toward the armoury for a rifle and cartridge when I remembered
and controlled my rage.

If I shot him, then and there, I must go to the scaffold or to jail forthwith, and Dolores
must inevitably go to a worse fate. Had I been sure that she could have kept straight, Burker
would have been shot, then and there.

"Fall in," he shouted, but did not mount his horse.

The gentlemen assembled with their horses and faced him in line, dismounted, I in front of
the centre of the troop. How clearly I can see every feature and detail of that morning's scene,
and hear every word and sound.

"Tell off by sections," commanded Burker.

"One, two, three, four--one, two, three, four...."

There were exactly six sections.

"Flanks of sections, proof."

"Section leaders, proof."

"Centre man, proof."

"Prepare to mount."

"Mount."

"Sections right."

"Sections left."

The last two words were the last words Burker ever spoke. Passing on foot along the line of
mounted men, to inspect saddlery, accoutrements, and the adjustment of rifle-buckets and slings,
he halted immediately behind me, where I sat on my charger in front of the centre of the troop.

I could not have placed him more exactly with my own hands. Fate sat with down-pointing thumb.

Turning round, as though to look at the troop, I rested my hand on my horse's back--just behind
the saddle--and pressed hard. He lashed out with both hoofs and Sergeant Burker dropped--and
never moved again.

The base of his skull was smashed like an egg, and his back was broken like a dry stick....

The terrible accident roused wide sympathy with the unfortunate man, the local reporter used
all his adjectives, and a military funeral was given to the soldier who had died in the execution
of his duty.

On reaching home, after satisfying myself at the Station Hospital that the man was dead, I
said to my poor, pale and red-eyed wife:--

"Dolores, Sergeant Burker met with an accident this morning on parade. He is dead. Let us never
refer to him again."

She fainted.

I spent that night also in meditation, questioning myself and examining my soul--with every
honest endeavour to be not a self-deceiver.

I came to the conclusion that I had acted rightly and in the only way in which a gentleman
could act. I had snatched Dolores from his foul clutches, I had punished him without depriving
Dolores of my protection, and I had avenged the stain on my honour.

"You have committed a treacherous cowardly murder," whispered the Fiend in my ear.

"You are a liar," I replied. "I did not fear the man and I took this course solely on account
of Dolores. I was strong enough to accept this position--and to risk the accusation of murder,
from my conscience, from the Devil, or from man."

Any doubt I might otherwise have had was forestalled and inhibited by the obvious Fate that
placed Burker in the one spot favourable to my scheme of punishment.

God had willed it?

God had not prevented it.

Surely God was consenting unto it....

And Dolores? I would forgive her and offer her the choice of remaining with me or leaving me
and receiving a half of my income and possessions--both alternatives being contingent upon
good conduct.

At dawn I prepared tea for her, and entered our bedroom. Dolores had wound a towel round her
neck, twisted the ends tightly--and suffocated herself.

She had been dead for hours....

At the police inquiry, held the same day, I duly lied as to the virtues of the "deceased,"
and the utter impossibility of assigning any reason for the rash and deplorable act. The usual
smug stereotyped verdict was pronounced, and, in addition to expressing their belief that the
suicide was committed "while of unsound mind," the officials expressed much sympathy with the
bereaved husband.

Dolores was buried that evening and I returned to an empty house.

I believe opinion had been divided as to whether I was callous or "stunned"--but the sight
of her little shoes caused pains in my throat and eyes. Had Burker been then alive I would
have killed him with my hands--and teeth. Yes, teeth.

I spent that night in packing every possession and trace of Dolores into her boxes, and then
in trying to persuade myself that I should have acted differently.

I could not do so. I had acted for the best--so let God who gave me free-will, intelligence,
conscience and opportunity, approve the deed or take the blame.

And let God remember how that opportunity came so convincingly--so impellingly--and if He would
judge me and ask for my defence I would ask him who sent Burker here, and who placed him on
that fatal spot?

Does God sit only in judgment?

Does God calmly watch His creatures walking blindfold to the Pit--struggling to tear away the
bandage as they walk? Can He only judge, and can He never help?

"Pray?"

Is God a petty-minded "jealous" God to be propitiated like the gods of the heathen?

Must we continually ask, or, not asking, not receive?

And if we know not to ask aright and to demand the best and highest?

Cannot the well-fed, well-read, well-paid Chaplain give advice?

"God knoweth best. Ask unceasingly. Pray always."

Why?--if. He knows best, is All Merciful, All Powerful?

"Praise?"

Is God a child, a savage, a woman? Shall I offer adulation that would sicken me.

"God is our Father which art in heaven."

Would I have my son praise me to my face continually--or at all. Would I compel him to pester
me with demands for what he desired,--good, bad and indifferent?

And would I give him what he asked regardless of what was best for him--or say, "If you ask
not, you receive not?" Give me a God finer and greater and juster and nobler than myself--something
higher than the Chaplain's jealous, capricious, inconsequent and illogical God. Anthropomorphism!

Is there a God at all?

I shall soon know.

At dawn I said aloud:--

"This Chapter is closed. The story of Burker and Dolores is written. I may now strive to forget."

I was wrong.

Major Jackson of the R.A.M.C. came to see me soon after daylight. He gave me an opiate and
I slept all that day and night. I went on parade next morning, fresh, calm, and cool--and saw
Burker riding toward the group of gentlemen who were awaiting the signal to "fall in".

I say I was fresh, calm, and cool.

I was.

And there was Burker--looking exactly as in life, save for a slight nebulosity, a very faint
vagueness of outline, and a hint of transparency.

I had been instructed by the Adjutant to assume the post of Instructor (as the end of the Mounted
Infantry drill season was near)--and I blew the "rally" on my whistle as many of the gentlemen
were riding about, and shouted the command: "Fall in".

Twenty living men and one dead faced me, twenty dismounted and one mounted. I called the corporal
in charge of the armoury.

"How many on parade?" I asked.

He looked puzzled, counted, and said:--

"Why--twenty, ain't there?"

I numbered the troop.

Twenty--and Burker.

"Tell off by sections."

Five sections--and Burker.

"Sections right."

A column of five sections--and Burker, in the rear.

I called out the section-leader of Number One section.

"Are the sections correctly proved?" I asked, and added: "Put the troop back in line and tell-off
again".

"Five sections, correct," he reported.

I held that drill, with five sections of living men, and a single file of dead, who manoeuvred
to my word.

When I gave the order "With Numbers Three for action dismount," or "Right-hand men, for action
dismount," Burker remained mounted. When I dismounted the whole troop, Burker remained mounted.
Otherwise he drilled precisely as Number Twenty-one would have drilled in a troop of twenty-one
men.

Was I frightened? I do not know.

At first my heart certainly pounded as though it would leap from my body, and I felt dazed,
lost, and shocked.

I think I was frightened--not of Burker so much as of the unfamiliar, the unknown, the impossible.

How would you feel if your piano suddenly began to play of itself? You would be alarmed and
afraid probably, not frightened of the piano, but of the fact.

A door could not frighten you--but you would surely be alarmed at its persistently opening,
each time you shut, locked, and bolted it, if it acted thus.

Of Burker I had no fear--but I was perturbed by the fact that the dead could ride with the living.

When I gave the order "Dismiss" at the end of the parade Burker rode away, as he had always
done, in the direction of his bungalow.

Returning to my lonely house, I sat me down and pondered this appalling event that had come
like a torrent, sweeping away familiar landmarks of experience, idea, and belief. I was conscious
of a dull anger against Burker and then against God.

Why should He allow Burker to haunt me?...

Why should Evil triumph?...

Was I haunted? Or was it, after all, but a hallucination--due to grief, trouble, and the drug
of the opiate?

I sat and brooded until I thought I could hear the voices of Burker and Dolores in converse.

This I knew to be hallucination, pure and simple, and I went to see my friend (if he will let
me call him what he is in the truest and highest sense) Major Jackson of the R.A.M.C.

He took me for a long ride, kept me to dinner, and manufactured a job for me--a piece of work
that would occupy and tire me.

He assured me that the Burker affair was pure hallucination and staked his professional reputation
that the image of Burker came upon my retina from within and not from without. "The shock of
the deaths of your wife and your friend on consecutive days has unhinged you, and very naturally
so," he said.

Of course I did not tell him that I had killed Burker, though I should have liked to do so.
I felt I had no right to put him in the position of having to choose between denouncing me
and condoning a murder--compounding a felony.

Nor did I see any reason for confessing to the Police what I had done (even though Dolores
was dead) and finishing my career on the scaffold.

One owes something to one's ancestors as well as to oneself. Well, perhaps it was a hallucination.
I would wait.

At the next drill Burker was present and rode as Number Three in Section Six.

As there were twenty-three (living) on parade I ordered Number Twenty-three to ride as Number
Four of his section and leave a blank file.

Burker rode in that blank file and drilled so, throughout--save that he would not dismount.

Once, as the troop rode in column of sections, I fell to the rear and, coming up behind, struck
with all my might at that slightly nebulous figure, with its faint vagueness of outline and
hint of transparency.

My heavy cutting-whip whistled--and touched nothing. I was as one who beats the air. Section
Six must have thought me mad.... Twice again the dead man drilled with the living, and each
time I described what happened to Major Jackson.

"It is a persistent hallucination," said he; "you must go on leave."

"I won't run from Burker, nor from a hallucination," I replied.

Then came the end.

At the next drill, twenty-one gentlemen were present and Number Twenty-one, the Sessions Judge
of Duri, a Scot, kept staring with looks of amazement and alarm at Burker, who rode as Number
Four on his flank, making an odd file into a skeleton section. I was certain that he saw Burker.

As the gentlemen "dismissed" after parade, the Judge rode up to me and, with a white face,
demanded:--

"Who the devil was that rode with me as Number Twenty-four? It was--it was--like--Sergeant Burker."

"It was Sergeant Burker, Sir," said I.

"I knew it was," he replied, and added: "Man, you and I are fey."

"Will you tell Major Jackson of this, Sir?" I begged. "He knows I have seen Burker's ghost
here before, and tells me it is a hallucination."

"I'll go and see him now." he replied. "He is an old friend of mine, and--he's a damned good
doctor. Man--you and I are fey." He rode to where his trap, with its spirited cob, was awaiting
him, dismounted and drove off.

As everybody knows, Mr. Blake of the Indian Civil Service, Sessions Judge of Duri, was thrown
from his trap and killed. It happened five minutes after he had said to me, with a queer look
in his eyes, and a queer note in his voice, "Man! you and I are fey".... So it is no hallucination
and I am haunted by Burker's ghost. Very good. I will fight Burker on his own ground.

My ghost shall haunt Burker's ghost--or I shall be at peace.

Though the religion of the Chaplain has failed me, the religion of my Mother, taught to me
at her knee, has implanted in me an ineradicable belief in the ultimate justice of things,
and the unquenchable hope of "somehow good".

I am about to go before my Maker or to obliteration and oblivion. If the former, I am prepared
to say to Him: "You made me a man. I have played the man. I look to you for justice, and that
is--compensation and not 'forgiveness'. Much less is it punishment. You have treated me ill
and given me no help. You have bestowed free-will without free-dom. Compensate me or know Yourself
unjust."

To a servant or child who spoke so to me and with equal reason, I would reply:--

"Compensation is due to you and not 'forgiveness'--much less punishment," and I would act accordingly....
Why should I cringe to God--and why should He love a cringer more than I do?

God help Men and Women--and such Children as are doomed to grow up to be Men and Women.

As I finish this sentence I shall put my revolver in my mouth and seek Justice or Peace....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Bad luck," murmured Mr. Robin Ross-Ellison, "that was the man of all men for me! A gentleman,
wishful to die.... That is the sort that does things when swords are out and bullets fly. Seeks
a gory grave and gets a V.C. instead. He and Mike Malet-Marsac and I would have put a polish
on the new Gungapur Fusiliers.... Rough luck...."

He was greatly disappointed, for his experiences in the bazaars, market-places, secret-meeting
houses, and the bowers of Hearts' Delights,--the Rialtos of Gungapur (he disguised, now as
an Afghan horse-dealer, now as a sepoy, now as a Pathan money-lender, again as a gold-braided,
velvet waistcoated, swaggering swashbuckler from the Border)--his experiences were disquieting,
were such as to make him push on preparations, perfect plans, and work feverishly at the "polishing"
of his re-organized Corps.

Also the reports of his familiar, a Somali yclept Moussa Isa, were disquieting, disturbing
to a lover of the Empire who foresaw the Empire at war in Europe.

Moussa Isa also knew that there was talk among Pathan horse-dealers and budmashes of the coming
of one Ilderim the Weeper, a mullah of great influence and renown, and talk, moreover, among
men of other race, of a Great Conspiracy.

Moussa was bidden to take service as a mill-coolie in one of Colonel Dearman's mills, and to
report on the views and attitude of the thousands who laboured therein. This he did and there
learnt many interesting facts.

§ 4. MR. AND MRS. CORNELIUS GOSLING-GREEN.

It was Sunday--and therefore John Bruce, the Engineering College Professor, was exceptionally
busy. On a-week-day he only had to deliver his carefully prepared lectures, interview students,
read and return essays, take the chair at meetings of college societies, coach one or two "specialists,"
superintend the games on the college gymkhana ground, interview seekers after truth and perverters
of the same, write letters on various matters of college business, visit the hostel, set question
papers and correct answers, attend common-room meetings, write articles for the college magazine
and papers for the Scientific, Philosophical, Shakespearean, Mathematical, Debating, Literary,
Historical, Students', Old Boys', or some other "union" and, if God willed, get a little exercise
and private study at his beloved "subject" and invention, before preparing for the morrow.

On Sundays, the thousand and one things crowded out of the programme were to be cleared up,
his home mail was to be written, and then arrears of work had to be attacked.

At four o'clock he addressed Roy Pittenweem and Mrs. MacDougall, his dogs, and said:--

"There's a bloomin' bun-snatch somewhere, you fellers, don't it?". Though a Professor and one
of the most keen and earnest workmen in India, his own college blazers were not quite worn
out, and Life, the great Artist, had not yet done much sketching on the canvas of his face--in
spite of his daily contact with the Science Professor, William Greatorex Bonnett, B.A., widely
known as the Mad Hatter, the greatest of whose many great achievements is his avoidance of
death at the hands of his colleagues and acquaintance.

Receiving no reply beyond a wink and a waggle, he dropped his blue pencil, rose, and went to
the table sacred to litter; and from a wild welter of books, pipes, papers, golf-balls, hats,
cigar-boxes, dog-collars, switches, cartridges and other sediment, he extracted a large gilt-edged
card and studied it without enthusiasm or bias.

"Large coat of arms," he murmured--"patience--no--a pay-sheet on a monument asking for time;
item a hand, recently washed; ditto, a dickey bird--possibly pigeon plucked proper or gull
argent; guinea-pig regardant and expectant; supporters, two bottliwallahs rampant. Crest, a
bum-boat flottant, and motto 'Cinq-cento-percentum'. All done in gold. Likewise in gold and
deboshed gothic, the legend 'Sir and Lady Fuggilal Potipharpar, At Home. To meet Mr. and Mrs.
Cornelius Gosling-Green, M.P. Five p.m. C.T.' ... Now what the devil, Roy Pittenweem, is C.T.?
Is it 'Curious Time' or 'Cut for Trumps' or a new decoration for gutter plutocrats? It might
mean 'Calcutta Time,' mightn't it, as the egregious Phossy and his gang would have it? Well,
we'll go and look upon the Cornmealious Gosling-Green, M.P.'s, and chasten our soul from sinful
pride--ain't it, Mrs. MacDougall?" and the Professor strolled across to the Sports Club for
a cup of tea.

In the midst of cheery converse with a non-moral and unphilosophic Professor of Moral Philosophy,
a fat youth of the name of Augustus Grobble whose life was one long picturesque pose, he sprang
to his feet, remarking: "I go, Augustus, I am bidden to behold some prize Gosling-Greens or
something, at 5 p.m., D.V. or D.T. or C.T. or L.S.D. or otherwise. Perhaps it was S.T. which
means 'Standard Time,' and as I said, I go, Augustus."

Augustus Grobble was understood to return thanks piously....

"Taxi, Sahib?" inquired the messenger-boy at the door.

"Go to," said the Professor. "Also go call me a tikka-gharri[55] and select a very senior horse,
blind, angular, withered, wilted, and answering to the name, most obviously, of Skin-and-Grief--lest
I be taken by the Grizzly-Goslings for a down-trodden plutocrat and a brother--and not seen
for the fierce and 'aughty oppressor that I am."

  [55] Public conveyance.

"Sahib?"

"Tikka-gharri lao,[56] you lazy little 'ound! Don't I speak plain English?" The Professor made
it a practice to "rot" when not working--hoping thus even in India to retain sanity and the
broad and wholesome outlook, for he was a very short-tempered person, easily roused to dangerous
wrath.

  [56] Bring.

A carriage, upholding a pony who, in return, spasmodically moved the carriage which gave evidence
of having been where moths break through and steal, lumbered into the Club garden, and the
Professor, imploring the jehu not to let the pony "die on him" in the Hibernian sense of the
expression, gingerly entered.

"Convey me to the gilded Potipharparian 'alls, Arthur," said he.

"Sahib?"

"Why don't you listen? Palangur Hill ki pas[57] And don't forget you've to get me there at
5 p.m. C.T. or S.T.--I leave it to you, partner."

  [57] To.

On arrival, the Professor concluded that if he had arrived at 5 p.m. C.T. he ought to have
come at 5 p.m. S.T., or vice versa; as what he termed 'the show' was evidently about over.
Fortune favours all sorts of people.

His hostess, who looked as though she had come straight out of the Bible via Bond Street, and
his host, who looked as though he had never come out of Petticoat Lane at all, both accused
him of being unable to work out the problem of "Find Calcutta Time given the Standard Time,"
and he professed to be proud to be able to acknowledge the truth of the compliment.

"Come and be presented to Meester and Meesers Carneelius Garsling-Green, M.P.," said the lady,
waddling before him; and her husband echoed:--

"Oah, yess. Come and be presented to Meester and Meesers Garsling-Green," waddling after him.

Mr. Cornelius Gosling-Green, M.P., proved to be a tall, drooping, melancholy creature, with
"Dundreary" whiskers, reach-me-down suit of thick cloth, wrong kind of tie, thickish boots,
and no presence. Without "form" and void.

Mrs. Cornelius Gosling-Green was a Severe Person, tiny, hard-featured and even more garrulous
than her husband, who watched her anxiously and nervously as he answered any question put in
her presence....

"And, oh, why, why are not you Mohammedans loyal?" said Mrs. Cornelius Gosling-Green, to a
magnificent-looking specimen of the Mussulman of the old school--stately, venerable, courteous
and honourable--who stood near, looking as though he wondered what the devil he was doing in
that galley. Loyal! Believe me we Mohammedans are most intensely and devotedly loyal," he replied.
"You have indeed been misled. Though you are only spending a month in India for collecting
the materials for your book or pamphlet, you must really learn that much. We Mohammedans are
as loyal as the English themselves.--More loyal than some in fact," he added, with intent.
The Pathan smiled meaningly.

"Ah, that's just it. I mean 'Why aren't you Mohammedans loyal to poor India?'"

The man turned and left the marquee and the garden without another word.

"Poor bleeding India," corrected the Professor.

"And are you a friend and worker for India?" continued the lady, turning to him and eyeing
him with severity.

"I am. I do my humble possible in my obscure capacity, Mrs. Grisly-Gosling," he replied. "I
beg your pardon, Mrs. Grossly-Grin----that is--er--Gosling-Green, I should say."

Be sure your sins will find you out. Through wilful perversion of the pleasing name the Professor
had rendered himself incapable of enunciating it.

"And what do you do for India,--write, speak, organize, subscribe or what?" asked the lady
with increasing severity.

"I work."

"In what capacity?"

"I am a professor at the Government Engineering College, here in Gungapur."

"O-h-h-h-h! You're one of the overpaid idlers who bolster up the Bureaucracy and batten on
the....'"

"Allow me to assure you that I neither bolster, batten, nor bureau, Mrs. Grizzling--I mean
Gosling Green. Nor do I talk through my hat. I----" the Professor was beginning to get angry
and to lose control.

"Perhaps you are one of us in disguise--a Pro-Native?"

"I am intensely Pro-Native."

The tall Pathan stared at the Professor.

"Oh, good! I beg your pardon! Cornelius, this gentleman is a Government professor and is with
us!" said this female of the M.P. species.

"That's right," gushed the Gosling. "We want a few in the enemy's camp both to spy out their
weakness and to embarrass them. Now about this University business. I am going to take it up.
That history affair now! Scandalous! I cannot tell you what a wave of indignation swept over
England when that syllabus was drawn up. Nothing truly Liberal about the whole course, much
less Radical. I at once said: 'I will see this righted. I will go to India, and I will beard
the....'"

"I think it was I who said it, Cornelius," remarked his much better half, coldly.

"Yes, my dear Superiora, yes. Now with your help I think we can do something, Professor. Good.
This is providential. We shall be able to embarrass them now! Will you write me----"

"You are going a little too fast, I think," said the Professor. "I am a 'Pro-Native' and a
servant of the Pro-Native Government of India. As such, I don't think I can be of any service
to twenty-one-day visitors who wish to 'embarrass' the best friends of my friends the Natives,
even supposing I were the sort of gentle Judas you compliment me by imagining me. I----"

"You distinctly say you are Pro-Native and then----"

"I repeat I am intensely Pro-Native, and so are the Viceroy, the Governors, the entire Civil
Service, the Educational Service, the Forest Service, the P.W.D., the Medical Service, the
Army, and every other Service and Department in India as well as every decent man in India.
We are all Pro-Native, and all doing our best in our respective spheres, in spite of a deal
of ignorant and officious interference and attempted 'embarrassment' at the hands of the self-seeking,
the foolish, the busy-body, the idle--not to mention the vicious. What a charming day it is.
I have so enjoyed the honour of meeting you."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well, my Scroobious Bird! And have they this day roasted in India such a Gosling as shall
never be put out?" inquired the non-moral and unphilosophic Professor of Moral Philosophy,
a little later.

"No, my Augustus," was the reply. "It's a quacking little gosling, and won't lead to any great
commotion m the farm-yard. Nasty little bird--like a sat-bai or whatever they call those appalling
things 'seven-sister' birds, aren't they, that chatter and squeak all day."

"Have a long drink and tell us all about it," replied Mr. Augustus Clarence Percy Marmaduke
Grobble.

"Oh, same old game on the same old stage. Same old players. Leading lady and gent changed only.
Huge great hideous bungalow, like a Goanese wedding-cake, in a vast garden of symmetrically
arranged blue and red glazed 'art' flower-pots. Lofty room decorated with ancestral portraits
done by Mr. Guzzlebhoy Fustomji Paintwallah; green glass chandeliers and big blue and white
tin balls; mauve carpet with purple azure roses; wall-paper, bright pink with red lilies and
yellow cabbages; immense mouldy mirrors, and a tin alarm clock. Big crowd of all the fly-blown
rich knaves of the place who have got more than they want out of Government or else haven't
got enough. Only novelty was a splendid Pathan chap, got-up in English except for the conical
cap and puggri. Extraordinarily like Ross-Ellison, except that he had long black Pathan hair
on his shoulders. Been to England; barrister probably, and seemed the most viciously seditious
of the lot. Silly ignorant Goslings in the middle saying to Brahmins, 'And you are Muscleman,
aren't you, or are you a Dhobi?' and to Parsis, 'I suppose you High Caste gentlemen have to
bathe every day?' shoving their awful ignorance under the noses of everybody, and inquiring
after the healths of the 'chief wives'. Silly fatuous geese!--and then talking the wildest
piffle about the 'burning question of the hour' and making the seditious rotters groan at their
ineptitude and folly, until they cheer them up sudden-like with a bit of dam' treason and sedition
they ought to be jailed for. Jailed. I nearly threw a fit when the old geezer, in a blaze of
diamonds and glory, brought up old Phossy and presented him to the Gander, and he murmured:--

"'My deah friend,' as Phossy held on to his paw in transports, 'to think of their casting you
into jail,' and old Mother Potiphar squeaked: 'Oh, this is not the forger of that name--but
the eminent politeecian'. But poor Gosly had thought he had been a political prisoner! Meant
no offence. And then some little squirt of an editor primed him with lies about the University
and the new syllabus, and straightway the Gander tried to get me on the 'embarrass the Government'
lay, and talked as though he knew all about it. 'I'll get some of the ladies of my committee
sent out here as History-lecturers at your University,' says he. 'They'll teach pure Liberal
History and inculcate true ideas of liberty and self-government.' I wanted to go outside and
be ill. Good old 'Paget M.P.'--takes up a 'Question' and writes a silly pamphlet on it and
thinks he's said the last word.--Written thousands.--Don't matter so long as he does it in
England.--Just the place for him nowadays.--But when he feels he's shoved out of the lime-light
by a longer-haired Johnny, it's rough luck that he should try and get back by spending his
blooming committee's money coming here and deludin' the poor seditionist and seducin' your
Hatter from his allegiance to his salt.... Awful old fraud really--no ability whatever. Came
to my college to spout once, in my time. Lord! Still he was a guest, and we let him go. Run
by his missus really, I think. Why can't she stop at home and hammer windows? They say she
went and asked the Begum of Bhopal to join her in a 'mission and crusade'. Teach the Zenana
Woman and Purdah Lady to Come Forth instead of Bring Forth. Come Forth and smash windows. Probably
true. Silly Goslings. Drop 'em.... What did you think of our bowling yesterday? With anything
like a wicket your College should be...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Entering his lonely and sequestered bungalow that evening Mir Ilderim Dost Mahommed changed
his Pathan dress for European dining-kit, removed his beard and wig, and became Mr. Robin Ross-Ellison.
After dinner he wrote to the eminent Cold weather Visitor to India, Mr. Cornelius Gosling-Green,
as follows--

"DEAR SIR,

"As I promised this afternoon, when you graciously condescended to honour me with your illuminating
conversation, I enclose the papers which I guaranteed would shed some light on certain aspects
of Indian conditions, and which I consider likely to give you food for thought.

"As I was myself educated in India, was brought up to maturity with Indian students, and have
lived among them in many different places, I may claim to know something about them. As a class
they are gentle, affectionate, industrious, well-meaning and highly intelligent. They are the
most malleable of human metal, the finest material for the sculptor of humanity, the most impressionable
of wax. In the right hands they can be moulded to anything, by the right leader led to any
height. And conversely, of them a devil can make fiends. By the wrong leader they can be led
down to any depth.

"The crying need of India is noble men to make noble men of these fine impressionable youths.
Read the enclosed and take it that the writer (who wrote this recently in Gungapur Jail) is
typical of a large class of misled, much-to-be-pitied youths, wrecked and ruined and destroyed--their
undoing begun by an unspeakably false and spurious educational ideal, and completed by the
writings, and the spoken words of heartless unscrupulous scoundrels who use them to their own
vile ends.

"Read, Sir, and realize how truly noble, useful and beautiful is your great work of endeavouring
to embarrass our wicked Government, to weaken its prestige here and in England, to encourage
its enemies, to increase discontent and unrest, to turn the thoughts of students to matters
political, and, in short, to carry on the good work of the usual Self-advertising Visitation M.P.

"Humbly thanking your Honour, and wishing your Honour precisely the successes and rewards that
your Honour deserves,

"I remain,

"The dust of your Honour's feet,

"ILDERIM DOST MAHOMMED."

And Mr. Cornelius Gosling-Green, M.P., read as follows:--

... And so I am to be hanged by the neck till I am dead, am I? And for a murder which I never
committed, and in the perpetration of which I had no hands? Is it, my masters? I trow so. But
I can afford to spit--for I did commit a murder, nevertheless, a beautiful secret murder that
no one could possibly ever bring to my home or cast in my tooth.

"Well, well! Hang me and grin in sleeve--and I will laugh on other side of face while dancing
on nothing--for if you think you are doing me in eye, I know I have done you in eye!

"Yes. I murdered Mr. Spensonly, the Chief Secretary of the Nuddee River Commission.

"As the Latin-and-Greeks used to say, 'Solo fesit'!

"You think Mr. Spensonly died of plague? So he did. And who caused him to have plague? In short,
who plagued him? (Ha! Ha! An infinite jest!) You shall know all about it and about, as Omar
says, for I am going now to write my autobiography of myself, as all great so-called Criminals
have done, for the admiration of mankind and the benefit of posterity. And my fellow-brothers
and family-members shall proudly publish it with my photo--that of a great Patriot Hero and
second Mazzini, Robespierre, Kossuth, Garibaldi, Wallace, Charlotte Corday, Kosciusko, and
Mr. Robert Bruce (of spider fame).

"And I shall welcome death and embrace the headsman ere making last speech and dying confession.
Having long desired to know what lies Beyond, I shall make virtue of necessity and seize opportunity
(of getting to know) to play hero and die gamish.

"Not like the Pathan murderer who walked about in front of condemned cell with Koran balanced
on head, crying to his Prophet to save him, and defying Englishes to touch him. Of course they
cooked his geese, Koran or not. One warder does more than many Prophets in Gungapur Jail. (He!
He! Quite good epigram and nice cynicality of educated man.) The degraded and unpolished fellow
decoyed two little girls into empty house to steal their jewellery, and cut off fingers and
noses and ears to get rings and nose-jewels and ear-drops, and left to die. Holy Fakir, gentleman
of course! Pooh! and Bah! for all holy men. I give spurnings to them all for fools, knaves,
or hypocrites. There are no gods any more for educated gentleman, except himself, and that's
very good god to worship and make offering to (Ha! Ha! What a wit will be lost to the silly
world when it permits itself to lose me.)

"Well, to return to the sheep, as the European proverb has it. I was born here in Gungapur,
which will also have honour of being my death-and-cremation place, of poor but honest parent
on thirty rupees a mensem. He was very clever fellow and sent five sons to Primary School,
Middle School, High School and Gungapur Government College at cost of over hundred rupees a
month, all out of his thirty rupees a mensem. He always used proverb 'Politeness lubricates
wheels of life and palm also,' and he obliged any man who made it worth his while. But he fell
into bad odours at hands of Mr. Spensonly owing to folly of bribing-fellow sending cash to
office and the letter getting into Mr. Spensonly's post-bag and opening by mistake.

"But the Sahib took me up into his office to soften blow to progenitor and that shows he was
a bad man or his luck would not have been to take me in and give chance to murder him.

"My good old paternal parent made me work many hours each night, and though he knew nothing
of the subjects he could read English and would hear all my lessons and other brothers', and
we had to say Skagger Rack, Cattegat, Scaw Fell and Helvellyn, and such things to him, and
he would abuse us if we mis-arranged the figures and letters in CaH2O2 and H2SO4 and all those
things in bottles. Before the Matriculation Examination he made a Graduate, whom he had got
under his thumb-nail, teach us all the answers to all the back questions in all subjects till
we knew them all by heart, and also made us learn ten long essays by heart so as to make up
the required essay out of parts of them. He nearly killed my brother by starvation (saving
food as well as punishing miscreant) for failing--the only one of us who ever failed in any
examination--which he did by writing out all first chapter of Washington Irving for essay,
when the subject was 'Describe a sunrise in the Australian back-blocks'. As parent said, he
could have used 'A moonlight stroll by the sea-shore' and change the colour from silver to
golden. But the fool was ill--so ill that he tried to kill himself and had not the strength.
He said he would rather go to the missionaries' hell, full of Englishes, than go on learning
Egbert, Ethelbald, Ethelbert, Ethelwulf, Ethelred, Alfred, Edward the Elder, Edred, Edwy, Edgar,
Ethelred the Unready, and If two triangles have two sides of the one equal to two angles of
the other each to each and the sides so subtended equal then shall the bases or fourth sides
be equal each to each or be isosceles.

"Well, the progenitor kept our noses in the pie night and day and we all hated the old papa
piously and wished he and we and all teachers and text-books were burned alive.

"But we were very much loved by everybody as we were so learned and clever, and whenever the
Collector or anybody came to School, the Head Master used to put one of us in each room and
call on us to answer questions and recite and say capes and bays without the map, and other
clever things; and when my eldest brother left I had to change coat with another boy and do
it twice sometimes, in different rooms.

"Sometimes the Educational Inspector himself would come, but then nothing could be done, for
he would not ask questions that were always asked and were in the book, like the teachers and
Deputy Inspectors did, but questions that no one knew and had to be thought out then and there.
That is no test of Learning--and any fool who has not troubled to mug his book by heart might
be able to answer such questions, while the man who had learnt every letter sat dumb.

"I hated the school and the books I knew by heart, but I loved Mr. Ganeshram Joshibhai. He
was a clever cunning man, and could always tweak the leg of pompous Head Master when he came
to the room, and had beautiful ways of cheating him when he came to examine--better than those
of the other teachers.

"Before we had been with him a month he could tell us things while being examined, and no one
else knew he was doing it. The initial letters of each word made up the words he wanted to
crib to us, and when he scratched his head with the right hand the answer was 'No,' while with
the left hand it was 'Yes'. And the clever way he taught us sedition while teaching us History,
and appearing to praise the English!

"He would spend hours in praising the good men who rebelled and fought and got Magnum Charter
and disrespected the King and cheeked the Government and Members of Council. We knew all about
Oliver Cromwell, Hampden, Pim, and those crappies, and many a boy who had never heard of Wolsey
and Alfred the Great knew all about Felton the jolly fine patriot who stabbed the Member of
Council, Buckingham Esquire, in back.

"We learnt whole History book at home and he spent all History lessons telling us about Plots,
all the English History Plots and foreign too, and we knew about the man who killed Henry of
Navarre, as well as about the killing of French and American Presidents of to-day. He showed
always why successful plots succeeded and the others failed. And he gave weeks to the American
Independence War and the French Revolution.

"And all the Indian History was about the Mutiny and how and why it failed, when he was not
showing us how the Englishes have ruined and robbed India, and comparing the Golden Age of
India (when no cow ever died and there was never famine, plague, police nor taxes) with the
miserable condition of poor bleeding India to-day.

"He was a fine fellow and so clever that we were almost his worshippers. But I am not writing
his autobiography but my own, so let him lapse herewith into posterity and well-merited oblivious.

"At the College when we could work no longer, we who had never learnt crickets and tennis and
ping-pongs, would take a nice big lantern with big windows in four sides of it, and sit publicly
in the middle of the grass at the Gardens (with our books for a blind) and make speech to each
other about Mother India and exhort each other to join together in a secret society and strike
a blow for the Mother, and talk about the heroes who had died on the scaffolding for her, or
who were languishing in chokey and do poojah to their photos. But the superior members did
no poojah to anything. Then came the Emissary in the guise of a holy man (and I thought it
the most dangerous disguise he could have assumed, for I wonder the police do not arrest every
sannyasi and fakir on suspicion) and brought us the Message. And he took us to hear the blind
Mussulman they call Ilderim the Weeper.

"All was ready and nothing lacked but the Instrument.

"Would any of us achieve eternal fame and undying glory by being the next Instrument?

"We wouldn't. No jolly fear, and thanks awfully.

"But we agreed to make a strike at the College and to drop a useless Browning pistol where
it would be found, and in various other ways to be unrestful. And one of us, whom the Principal
would not certify to sit for his F.E. and was very stony hard-up, joined the Emissary and went
away with him to be a Servant and perhaps an Instrument later on (if he could not get a girl
with a good dowry or a service of thirty rupees a mensem), he was so hungry and having nothing
for belly.

"Yes, as Mr. Ganeshram Joshibhai used to say, that is what the British Government does for
you--educates you to be passed B.A. and educated gent., and then grudges to give you thirty
rupees a mensem and expects you to go searching for employment and food to put in belly! Can
B.A. work with hands like maistri?

"Then there came the best of all my friends, a science-knowing gentleman who gave all his great
talents to bomb. And the cream of all the milky joke was that he had learnt all his science
free, from Government, at school and college, and he not only used his knowledge to be first-class
superior anarchist but he got chemicals from Government own laboratory.

"His brother was in Government Engineering College and between them they did much--for one
could make the bomb and the other could fill it.

"But they are both to be hanged at the same time that I am, and I do not grudge that I am to
be innocently hanged for their plot and the blowing up of the bhangi by mistake for the Collector,
for I have long aspired to be holy martyr in Freedom's sacred cause and have photo in newspapers
and be talked about.

"Besides, as I have said, I am not being done brown, as I murdered Mr. Spensonly, the Engineer.

"How I hated him!

"Why should he be big and strong while I am skinny and feeble--owing to night-and-day burning
midnight candle at both ends and unable to make them meet?

"Besides did he not bring unmerited dishonour on grey hairs of poor old progenitor by finding
him out in bribe-taking? Did he not bring my honoured father's aforesaying grey hairs in sorrow
to reduced pension?

"Did he not upbraid and rebuke, nay, reproach me when I made grievous little errors and backslippers?

"A thousand times Yea.

"But I should never have murdered him had I not caught the Plague, so out of evil cometh good
once more.

"The Plague came to Gungapur in its millions and we knew not what to do but stood like drowning
man splitting at a straw.

"Superstitious Natives said it was the revenge of Goddess Kali for not sacrificing, and superstitious
Europeans said it was a microbe created by their God to punish unhygienic way of living.

"Knowing there are no gods of any sort I am in a position to state that it was just written
on our foreheads.

"To make confusion worse dumbfounded the Government of course had to seize horns of dilemma
and trouble the poor. They had all cases taken to hospital and made segregation and inspection
camps. They disinfected houses and burnt rags and even purdah women were not allowed to die
in bosom of family. Of course police stole lakhs of rupees worth of clothes and furniture and
said it was infected. And many good men who were enemies of Government were falsely accused
of being plague-stricken and were dragged to hospital and were never seen again.

"Terrible calamities fell upon our city and at last it nearly lost me myself. I was seized,
dragged from my family-bosom, cast into hospital and cured. And in hospital I learned from
fellow who was subordinate-medical that rats get plague in sewers and cesspools and when they
die of it their fleas must go elsewhere for food, and so hop on to other rat and give that
poor chap plague too, by biting him with dirty mouths from dead rat, and then he dies and so
in adfinitum, as the poet has it. But suppose no other rat is handy, what is poor hungry flea
to do? When you can't get curry, eat rice! When flea can't get rat he eats man--turns to nastier
food. (He! He!)

"So when flea from plague-stricken rat jumps on to man and bites him, poor fellow gets plague--bus.[58]

  [58] Finale, enough, the end.

"Didn't friends and family-members skeddaddle and bunk when they saw rat after I told them
all that! But I didn't care, I had had plague once, and one cannot get it twice. Not one man
in thousand recovers when he has got it, but I did. Old uneducated fool maternal parent did
lots of thanks-givings and poojah because gods specially attentive to me--but I said 'Go to,
old woman. It was written on forehead.'

"And when I returned to work, one day I had an idea--an idea of how to punish Mr. Spensonly
for propelling honoured parent head first out of job, and idea for striking blow at British
prestige. We had our office in private bungalow in those days before new Secretariat was built,
and it was unhealthy bungalow in which no one would live because they died.

"Mr. Spensonly didn't care, and he had office on top floor, but bottom floor was clerks' office
who went away at night also. Now it was my painful duty to go every morning up to his office-room
and see that peon had put fresh ink and everything ready and that the hamal had dusted properly.
So it was not long before I was aware that all the drawers were locked except the top right-hand
drawer, and that was not used as there was a biggish hole in the front of it where the edge
was broken away from the above, some miscreant having once forced it open with tool.

"And verily it came to pass that one day, entering my humble abode-room, I saw a plague-rat
lying suffering from in extremis and about to give up ghost. But having had plague I did not
trouble about the fleas that would leave his body when it grew stiff and cold, in search of
food. Instead I let it lie there while my food was being prepared, and regretted that it was
not beneath the chair of some enemy of mine who had not had plague, instead of beneath my own
... that of Mr. Spensonly for example!...

"It was Saturday night. I returned to the office that evening, knowing that Mr. Spensonly was
out; and I went to his office-room with idle excuse to the peon sitting in verandah--and in
my pocket was poor old rat kicking bucket fast.

"Who was to say I put deceasing rat in the Sahib's table-drawer just where he would come and
sit all day--being in the habit of doing work on Sunday the Christian holy day (being a man
of no religion or caste)? What do I know of rats and their properties when at death's front door?

"Cannot rat go into a Sahib's drawer as well as into poor man's? If he did no work on Sunday
very likely the fleas would remain until Monday, the rat dying slowly and remaining warm and
not in rigour mortuis. Anyhow when they began to seek fresh fields and pastures new, being
fed up with old rat--or rather not able to get fed up enough, they would be jolly well on the
look out, and glad enough to take nibble even at an Englishman! (He! He!) So I argued, and
put good old rat in drawer and did slopes. On Monday, Mr. Spensonly went early from office,
feeling feverish; and when I called, as in duty bound, to make humble inquiries on Tuesday,
he was reported jolly sickish with Plague--and he died Tuesday night. I never heard of any
other Sahib dying of Plague in Gungapur except one missionary fellow who lived in the native
city with native fellows.

"So they can hang me for share in bomb-outrage and welcome (though I never threw the bomb nor
made it, and only took academic interest in affair as I told the Judge Sahib)--for I maintain
with my dying breath that it was I who murdered Mr. Spensonly and put tongue in cheeks when
Gungapur Gazette wrote column about the unhealthy bungalow in which he was so foolish as to
have his office. When I reflect that by this time to-morrow I shall be Holy Martyr I rejoice
and hope photo will be good one, and I send this message to all the world--

"'Oh be....'"

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Gosling-Green, M.P., liked this Pathan gentleman so well after reading
his letter and enclosure. Before long they liked him very much less--although they did not
know it--which sounds cryptic.

§ 5. MR. HORACE FAGGIT.

"Fair cautions, ain't they, these bloomin' niggers," observed Mr. Horace Faggit, as the train
rested and refreshed itself at a wayside station on its weary way to distant Gungapur.

Colonel Wilberforce Wriothesley, of the 99th Baluch Light Infantry, apparently did not feel
called upon to notice the remark of Horace, whom he regarded as a Person.

"Makes you proud to think you are one of the Ruling Rice to look at the silly blighters, don't
it?" he persisted.

"No authority on rice," murmured the Colonel, without looking up from his book.

Stuffy old beggar he seemed to the friendly and genial Horace, but Horace was too deeply interested
in India and Horace to be affected by trifles.

For Mr. Horace Faggit had only set foot in his Imperial Majesty the King Emperor's Indian Empire
that month, and he was dazed with impressions, drunk with sensations, and uplifted with pride.
Was he not one of the Conquerors, a member of the Superior Society, one of the Ruling Race,
and, in short, a Somebody?

The train started again and Horace sank back upon the long couch of the unwonted first-class
carriage, and sighed with contentment and satisfaction.

How different from Peckham and from the offices of the fine old British Firm of Schneider,
Schnitzel, Schnorrer & Schmidt! A Somebody at last--after being office-boy, clerk, strap-hanger,
gallery-patron, cheap lodger, and paper-collar wearer. A Somebody, a Sahib, an English gent.,
one of the Ruling and Upper Class after being a fourpenny luncher, a penny-'bus-and-twopenny--tuber,
a waverer 'twixt Lockhart and Pearce-and-Plenty.

For him, now, the respectful salaam, precedence, the first-class carriage, the salutes of police
and railway officials, hotels, a servant (elderly and called a "Boy"), cabs (more elderly and
called "gharries"), first-class refreshment and waiting rooms, a funny but imposing sun-helmet,
silk and cotton suits, evening clothes, deference, regard and prompt attention everywhere.
Better than Peckham and the City, this! My! What tales he'd have to tell Gwladwys Gwendoline
when he had completed his circuit and returned.

For Mr. Horace Faggit, plausible, observant, indefatigably cunning, and in business most capable
("No bloomin' flies on 'Orris F." as he would confidently and truthfully assure you) was the
first tentative tentacle advanced to feel its way by the fine old British Firm of Schneider,
Schnitzel, Schnorrer & Schmidt, in the mazy markets of the gorgeous Orient, and to introduce
to the immemorial East their famous jewellery and wine of Birmingham and Whitechapel respectively;
also to introduce certain exceeding-private documents to various gentlemen of Teutonic sympathies
and activities in various parts of India--documents of the nature of which Horace was entirely
ignorant.

And the narrow bosom of Horace swelled with pride, as he realized that, here at least, he was
a Gentleman and a Sahib.

Well, he'd let 'em know it too. Those who did him well and pleased him should get tips, and
those who didn't should learn what it was to earn the displeasure of the Sahib and to evoke
his wrath. And he would endeavour to let all and sundry see the immeasurable distance and impassable
gulf that lay between a Sahib and a nigger--of any degree whatsoever.

This was the country to play the gentleman in and no error! You could fling your copper cash
about in a land where a one-and-fourpenny piece was worth a hundred and ninety-two copper coins,
where you could get a hundred good smokes to stick in your face for about a couple of bob,
and where you could give a black cabby sixpence and done with it. Horace had been something
of a Radical at home (and, indeed, when an office-boy, a convinced Socialist), especially when
an old-age pension took his lazy, drunken old father off his hands, and handsomely rewarded
the aged gentleman for an unswervingly regular and unbroken career of post-polishing and pub-pillaring.
But now he felt he had been mistaken. Travel widens the horizon and class-hatred is only sensible
and satisfactory when you are no class yourself. When you have got a position you must keep
it up--and being one of the Ruling Race was a position undoubtedly. Horace Faggit would keep
it up too, and let 'em see all about it.

The train entered another station and drew in from the heat and glare to the heat and comparative
darkness.

Yes, he would keep up his position as a Sahib haughtily and with jealousy,--and he stared with
terrible frown and supercilious hauteur at what he mentally termed a big, fat buck-nigger who
dared and presumed to approach the carriage and look in. The man wore an enormous white turban,
a khaki Norfolk jacket, white jodhpore riding-breeches that fitted the calf like skin, and
red shoes with turned-up pointed toes. His beard was curled, and his hair hung in ringlets
from his turban to his shoulders in a way Horace considered absurd. Could the blighter be actually
looking to see whether there might be room for him, and meditating entry? If so Horace would
show him his mistake. Pretty thing if niggers were to get into First-Class carriages with Sahibs
like Horace!

"'Ere! What's the gaime?" he inquired roughly. "Can't yer see this is Firs-Class, and if you
got a Firs-Class ticket, can't yer see there's two Sahibs 'ere? Sling yer 'ook, sour.[59] Go
on, jao!"[60]

  [59] Pig.
  [60] Go away.

The man gave no evidence of having understood Horace.

"Sahib!" said he softly, addressing Colonel Wilberforce Wriothesley.

The Colonel went on reading.

"Jao, I tell yer," repeated Horace, rather proud of his grasp of the vernacular. "Slope, barnshoot."[61]

  [61] An insulting epithet.

"Sahib!" said the man again.

The Colonel looked up and then sprang to his feet with outstretched hand.

"Bahut salaam,[62] Subedar Major Saheb," he cried, and wrung the hand of the "big fat buck-nigger"
(who possessed the same medal-ribbons that he himself did) as he poured forth a torrent of
mingled Pushtu, Urdu, and English while the Native Officer alternately saluted and pressed
the Colonel's hand to his forehead in transports of pure and wholly disinterested joy.

  [62] Hearty greeting.

"They told me the Colonel Sahib would be passing through this week," he said, "and I have met
all the trains that I might look upon his face. I am weary of my furlough and would rejoin
but for my law-suit. Praise be to Allah that I have met my Colonel Sahib," and the man who
had five war decorations was utterly unashamed of the tear that trickled.

"How does my son, Sahib?" he asked in Urdu.

"Well, Subedar Major Saheb, well. Worthily of his father--whose place in the pultan may he
come to occupy."

"Praise be to God, Sahib! Let him no more seek his father's house nor look upon his father's
face again, if he please thee not in all things. And is there good news of Malet-Marsac Sahib,
O Colonel Sahib?" Then, with a glance at Horace, he asked: "Why does this low-born one dare
to enter the carriage of the Colonel Sahib and sit? Truly the rêlwêy terain is a great caste-breaker!
Clearly he belongs to the class of the ghora-log, the common soldiers." ...

"'Oo was that,--a Rajah?" inquired the astounded Horace, as the train moved on.

"No doubt he thought I was another officer," reflected Horace. "They think you're a gent, if
you chivvy 'em."

At Umbalpur Colonel Wilberforce Wriothesley left the train and Mr. Faggit had the carriage
to himself--for a time.

And it was only through his own firmness and proper pride that he had it to himself for so
long, for at the very next station a beastly little brute of a black man actually tried to
get in--in with him, Mr. Horace Faggit of the fine old British Firm of Schneider, Schnitzel,
Schnorrer & Schmidt, manufacturers of best quality Birmingham jewellery and "importers" of
a fine Whitechapel wine.

But Horace settled him all right and taught him to respect Sahibs. It happened thus. Horace
lay idly gazing at the ever-shifting scene of the platform in lordly detachment and splendid
isolation, when, just as the train was starting, a little fat man, dressed in a little red
turban like a cotton bowler, a white coat with a white sash over the shoulder, a white apron
tucked up behind, pink silk socks, and patent leather shoes, told his servant to open the door.
Ere the stupefied Horace could arise from his seat the man was climbing in! The door opened
inwards however, and Horace was in time to give it a sharp thrust with his foot and send the
little man, a mere Judge of the High Court, staggering backwards on to the platform where he
sprawled at full length, while his turban, which Horace thought most ridiculous for a grown
man, rolled in the dust. Slamming the door the "Sahib" leant out and jeered, while the insolent
presumptuous "nigger" wiped the blood from his nose with a corner of the dhoti or apron-like
garment (which Horace considered idiotic if not improper)....

But Homer nodded, and--Horace went to sleep.

When he awoke he saw by the dim light of the screened roof-lamp that he was not alone, and
that on the opposite couch a native had actually made up a bed with sheets, blankets and pillow,
undressed himself, put on pyjamas and gone to bed! Gord streuth, he had! He'd attend to him
in the morning--though it would serve the brute right if Horace threw him out at the next station--without
his kit. But he looked rather large, and Mercy is notoriously a kingly attribute.

In the morning Mir Jan Rah-bin-Ras el-Isan Mir Ilderim Dost Mahommed of Mekran Kot, Gungapur,
and the world in general, awoke, yawned, stretched himself and arose.

