The decent gravity of some of the crowd formed a strong contrast to the jocund vivacity of
the majority; and this again with the important swagger of the constables, who seemed fully
to appreciate the consequence which the modicum of authority dealt out to persons of their
standing in society cannot fail to impart. Then the anxiety to complete their task, which the
workmen who were still employed in preparing the scaffold evinced, gave another feature perfectly
distinct from what had before caught my attention, while the eagerness of the inhabitant housekeepers
to let "excellent places for seeing," and of certain ambulatory pastrycooks to accommodate
the rapidly increasing multitude with such delicacies as they had for sale, added to the variety,
though not to the solemnity of the scene.

Some undertaker's men were carrying coffins across the road to the prison, for the reception
of the sufferers after execution. They were much pushed about, and this caused great mirth.
I turned from the general display of levity with disgust. "On no account," I mentally exclaimed,
"will I remain mixed up with such a herd of heartless beings. But who am I," I retorted on
myself in the next moment, "that I should thus condemn my fellows, and 'bite the chain of nature?'"--for
what I saw was nature after all. A mob, save when depressed by a sense of peril, can never
long refrain from some indications of merriment, however awful the subject of their meeting.
The unfortunate Hackman, in one of his letters to Miss Ray, described himself to have been
shocked by a spectacle of this sort. On the morning of the day on which Dr. Dodd suffered,
Hackman was at Tyburn. While the multitude were expecting the approach of the culprit, an unfortunate
pig ran among them; and the writer remarks, with indignation, that the brutal populace diverted
themselves with the animal's distress, as if they had come there to see "a sow baited," instead
of attending to behold a fellow creature sacrificed to justice.

But the pressure of the accumulating thousands was too much for me, and I asked a female, who,
with an infant in her arms, stood full in my way, to let me pass. I was retiring, when the
carriage of one of the sheriffs drove up to the Sessions-house, and out stepped my friend Sir
Thomas ----, who, in the performance of his duty, came to superintend the last arrangements
within the prison, and to give the governor a receipt for the bodies of the unfortunates who
were to die.

I was instantly recognised, and the sheriff kindly complimented me with the offer of an introduction
to the interior. Such politenesss was not to be withstood, and I signified my assent with a bow.

We passed up a staircase and into a well furnished and carpeted apartment. Here I was introduced
to the under-sheriff, who, attended by half a dozen gentlemen, brought in, like myself, as
a matter of favour, was about descending to the room in which the culprits are pinioned. Sir
Thomas, who had bestowed much humane attention on the prisoners, inquired, with real solicitude,
how they had passed the night. His colleague, who had just had his person embellished with
the insignia of office, replied, in a lively tone. "O, very well, I understand." He added,
with infinite coolness and intelligence--"But you cannot expect men to sleep so well the night
before they are hanged as they are likely to do afterwards!"

He looked round in all our faces, as if to collect our suffrages in favour of this pleasantry.
His high rank and importance there, prevented any word or sign of displeasure. Most of us lifted
our upper lip so as just to show our teeth, thereby intimating that we knew he had said a very
good thing, at which, but for the painful business then in progress, we should be ready to
die with laughing.

We now followed the sheriffs through the Sessions-house, and thence, by a covered passage on
the eastern side of the yard of that building, to the prison. I shuddered at beholding the
numerous precautions which experience and ingenuity had suggested to cut off hope and prevent
escape, Spikes and pallisades above, and doors of massy iron below, appeared in long and terrible
array against the wretch, who, having eluded the vigilance of the officers of the gaol, should
attempt, by flight, to save his life. At one of the iron doors, we were severally inspected
with as much suspicious care as if we had been seeking to get out, instead of pressing forward
to be let in.

At length we reached a gloomy apartment, which, I believe, is called the press-room. Here I
found rather a fuller attendance than I had expected; some eight or ten persons having been
admitted by another entrance. These had formed in two lines, and their eyes were incessantly
turned towards the door. I fancied, when I made my appearance, that they regarded me with peculiar
attention, as if for a moment they had mistaken me for a more distinguished character than
I really was. If I were right in this, they certainly were soon undeceived. Mingling with them,
I looked about me, as I saw them look about. Silence generally prevailed. A few whispers were
exchanged; and now and then such sentences as, "The time grows short"-- "They will soon be
here"--"What must their feelings be at this moment?" were murmured along the ranks.

That amelioration of the culprit's destiny, which, by relieving him from the galling fetters
heretofore deemed necessary for the safe detention of his person, now leaves his mind more
perfect leisure for communication with his Creator, had not then taken place. The approach
of the prisoners was signified first by a whisper, and then by the clanking of the irons attached
to the limbs of one of them. It was a dreary morning; and the sombre aspect of the apartment
well accorded with the dismal preparations of which it was to be the theatre. A block with
a small anvil was placed near the entrance, by which a miserably attired individual was stationed
with a candle, for the purpose of lighting the workman who attended to remove the irons. The
flame of the candle was too small to afford a general illumination of the room; but its limited
power gave to the eye a more distinct view of a little circle round the anvil, in which the
main objects were the smith, with his hammer already grasped; his assistant, and two or three
officers, were, in the absence of the more important objects of curiosity, eagerly gazed on
by some of the party, and by me for one, as appendages of the picture not unworthy of notice.

The sound of the fetters was now close at hand, and the voice of the minister who attended
the wearer of them, could be heard. In the next moment two or three persons entered, and these
were followed by the ordinary and one of the malefactors. The latter looked right and left,
as if he had calculated on recognising there some friend or relative. A ghastly paleness sat
on his cheek, and there was an air of disorder in the upper part of his face, which his wild
but sunken eye, and negligently combed locks joined to furnish. The unhappy youth, for he was
not more than twenty, advanced with a steady step to where the smith expected him. He was resigned
and tractable. When about to place his foot on the block, he untied a band, which had passed
round his body to sustain the weight of his irons; and as he disengaged it, he let it carelessly
fall, with an expression in his countenance which told, so I fancied, that, in this moment,
reflecting he should never want it again, the immediate cause and consequence of the miserable
relief flashed full on his imagination, with all their concomitant horrors. But with calmness
he attended to the workman, who directed him how to stand. He manifested great presence of
mind, and, I thought, seemed to gaze with something of curiosity on the operation, which he
contributed all in his power to facilitate. The heavy blows echoed through the room, and rudely
broke in on the low murmurs and whispers which had for some little time been the only sounds
heard there. A singularly irrational feeling came over me. I could have reproved the striker
for indecorously breaking silence, and even have questioned his humanity for being capable
of such vigorous exertion at a moment when, as it struck me, everything ought to have presented
the coldness and motionless stillness of the grave.

The rivet was knocked out, the fetters fell to the floor, and the prisoner was passed from
the anvil to the further extremity of the room. A second entered. This was a middle-aged man.
Reflection seemed with him to have well performed its duty. Calm and undismayed, he advanced
to the anvil, apparently unconscious of the presence of a single spectator, and wholly occupied
with meditations on eternity. Having already witnessed that part of the preparatory ceremony
which he was then to undergo, I withdrew from the circle to observe the other sufferer. He
had now been joined by the ordinary, and was standing near a table, on which several ropes
were lying. He was directed to place his hands together, and he was then pinioned. Here, again,
I felt a disposition to criticise the conduct of the officers, like that which I had previously
experienced while witnessing the labours of the smith. The adroitness and merciful despatch
which I noticed, I could hardly help regarding as meriting censure for the insensibility which
they marked. Those who have to perform a severe duty cannot often properly fulfil their task,
and at the same time conciliate the admiration of the pitying spectator. Lest what I have said
should be misunderstood, it is right distinctly to say, no want of consideration for the feelings
of the criminals was evinced. The officers who pinioned them, when their work was done, shook
each by the hand with an appearance of sincere commiseration. The matter-of-course way in which
they acquitted themselves offended me, but I had no right to expect that in performing what
to them were but common-place labours, they should study my fastidious notions of fitness and
effect. But a still greater contrast to the awful character of the preparations presented itself.
When I drew near the table on which the ropes lay, and by which the miserable being who had
most engrossed my attention then stood, I perceived on that very table the materials for gambling.
Lines, passing across it, had been indented to prepare it for a game, I believe the same as
that which king Henry VIII. took some trouble to put down, under the name of "Shove-groat."
The strange variety thus placed before me--the mingling symbols of dissipation and misery,
of pastime and of death, caused my mind, already sufficiently excited, to experience a sudden
emotion which I know not how to convey to another.

The third criminal entered. This was a young man of prepossessing exterior, who had recently
moved in a higher sphere than either of his companions in suffering. His cheek was flushed
when he entered, and he staggered forward, writhing in agony, and scarcely able to sustain
himself. He looked at those who surrounded him as if he feared to discover some who had known
him in the day of his pride. It was necessary to support him while his irons were being removed.
He was attended by a benevolent person who commonly assists criminals in their last moments,
and who, though no ecclesiastic by profession, seemed equal to the duty of imparting religious
consolation. His voice now contributed to soothe his unhappy charge, and in a few moments all
that was necessary there to be done had been performed. The hands of the culprits were secured,
and the halters by which they were to perish were thrown round their shoulders.

The fortitude of the young man first brought in had, till this moment, enabled him, though
not unmoved, to look with calmness on the appalling scene. But now when he saw that but one
more ceremony intervened between him and the grave, his resolution suddenly failed him. He
burst into tears, and a wild shriek of "O my mother--my poor mother," embodied in speech a
portion of the agony which raged in his bosom. He was conducted to a bench, on which his fellows
had just been seated. A glass of water was handed to him, with which he moistened his fevered
lips, and the voice of devotion again claimed attention, and commanded silence.

In that moment few, if any, of the spectators remembered the crimes of those they looked upon.
Every mind was solely occupied with the terrible punishment about to be inflicted.

But distressing as the scene was, before it closed I was sufficiently myself to recognise,
with satisfaction, the majestic march of justice--the resolute, but humane administration of
the law. It was sad to behold the ghastly pictures of despair then breathing, but destined
so speedily to cease to breathe. Such scenes are rendered familiar to us in romance, but to
gaze on the reality, and to feel that, pity as we may, no joyful denouement can be furnished
to avert the contemplated sacrifice, occasions for the time excruciating sorrow. But while
I felt this, and was persuaded that each of all who were with me (however idle the curiosity
which brought him there) would have been glad for himself to have given them life and freedom,
I admired the serene determination which still urged on the proceedings, and the sorrowful
concurrence which attended them. It was the triumph of civilization, to behold every effort
made to soothe calamity, without any abandonment of the forfeit justly claimed on behalf of
society.

The sheriffs inquired if the unfortunates had any thing to impart, or any request to make.
Answered in the negative--they added their voices to those of their religious assistants, to
assure them of their hopes--that they would find that mercy in another world, which the laws
and the interests of their fellow creatures denied them in this.

This language, however suited to the occasion, had been so often addressed to them, that the
sufferers received it almost as a matter of course, and made little or no reply, but looking
up to heaven, they at least seemed to feel that thither alone could their thoughts be advantageously
directed.

They continued sitting on the bench or form to which they had been led. From time to time the
sheriffs referred to their watches. The under sheriff, who had been doing the same, now exhibited
his timepiece to his superior. It wanted five minutes to eight. Sir Thomas, by a slight inclination
of the head, intimated that he comprehended what was intended to be conveyed.

"Had we not better move?" he inquired, addressing himself, in a tone but little above a whisper,
to the ordinary.

"I think we had:" the functionary just mentioned rejoined--"the last time you know, we were
rather late."

The under sheriff waved his hand for the spectators to stand aside. His gesture was promptly
attended to. The sheriffs', holding their wands in their hands, then presented themselves as
ready to march in procession. Immediately after them the minister appeared, with his open book;
the culprits were next brought forward, and placed immediately behind him. The spectators,
who had given way on the sides, prepared to bring up the rear, were admonished by the under
sheriff not to press on the sufferers; and strange as it may seem, the intrusive curiosity
of some of the party, impressed upon me a belief that this hint was not altogether unnecessary.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRESENT STATE OF DUTCH PAINTERS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

SIR,--The Dutch painters of the present day differ very materially from the English, not only
in their method of manufacturing pictures, but also in their personal appearance. The following
is an extract from the private journal of a friend, who has recently been in Holland.

Yours, &c. G.W.N.

"You would be rather surprised on first entering a painting-room here. Your eye is struck with
the appearance of a dozen slovenly attired fellows, who are variously engaged, some in beginning
pictures, some in finishing, &c. The window, which is remarkably large, and situated so as
to command a good prospect from without, admits light sufficient to illuminate the room, or
rather shop, which shop is at least fifteen feet long. Casting your eye up towards the ceiling,
which is equally lofty with the length of the apartment, you are somewhat at a loss to account
for a vast quantity of beams, cordage, pullies, and canvasses, all appearing to have their
several uses, and all kept in regular order by a man for that purpose. The canvasses, in truth,
are no other than finished pictures, which have been drawn up by the pullies to the beams,
for the purposes of drying, &c. The Dutch do not, as the English do, paint one picture on one
cloth; no, they have a much more expeditious method. A large piece of canvass is procured,
on which the artist commences his labour, and, in a progressive manner, begins and finishes
sometimes a dozen pictures at once. In a kind of boudoir, an attendant is employed continually
in grinding colours, &c. For my own part, I own I was much amused with the great variety which
this curious coup d'oeil presented; but I could not remain long, for the painters, even while
they were at work, smoked continually. The Dutch, it should be observed, carry on a considerable
traffic in pictures with the Chinese and other eastern nations."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

No. CVIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLOUGH NA CUDDY.

A Killarney Legend.

BY T. CROFTON CROKER, ESQ.

Above all the islands in the Lakes of Killarney, give me Innisfallen-- "sweet Innisfallen,"
as the melodious Moore calls it. It is in truth a fairy isle, although I have no fairy story
to tell you about it; and if I had, these are such unbelieving times, and people of late have
grown so sceptical, that they only smile at my stories and doubt them.

However, none will doubt that a monastery once stood upon Innisfallen island, for its ruins
may still be seen; neither, that within its walls dwelt certain pious and learned persons called
monks. A very pleasant set of fellows they were, I make not the smallest doubt; and I am sure
of this, that they had a very pleasant spot to enjoy themselves in after dinner--the proper
time, believe me, and I am no bad judge of such matters, for the enjoyment of a fine prospect.

Out of all the monks you could not pick a better fellow nor a merrier soul than Father Cuddy;
he sang a good song, he told a good story, and had a jolly, comfortable-looking paunch of his
own, that was a credit to any refectory table. He was distinguished above all the rest by the
name of "the fat father." Now there are many that will take huff at a name; but Father Cuddy
had no nonsense of that kind about him; he laughed at it, and well able he was to laugh, for
his mouth nearly reached from one ear to the other--his might, in truth, be called an open
countenance. As his paunch was no disgrace to his food, neither was his nose to his drink.
'Tis a question to me if there were not more carbuncles upon it than ever were seen at the
bottom of the lake, which is said to be full of them. His eyes had a right merry twinkle in
them, like moonshine dancing on the water; and his cheeks had the roundness and crimson glow
of ripe arbutus berries.

  He eat, and drank, and prayed, and slept--what then?
  He eat, and drank, and prayed, and slept again!

Such was the tenor of his simple life; but when he prayed, a certain drowsiness would come
upon him, which it must be confessed never occurred when a well filled "black jack" stood before
him. Hence his prayers were short, and his draughts were long. The world loved him, and he
saw no reason why he should not in return love its venison and its usquebaugh. But, as times
went, he must have been a pious man, or else what befel him never would have happened.

Spiritual affairs--for it was respecting the importation of a tun of wine into the island monastery--demanded
the presence of one of the brotherhood of Innisfallen at the abbey of Trelagh, now called Muckruss.
The superintendence of this important matter was committed to Father Cuddy, who felt too deeply
interested in the future welfare of any community of which he was a member to neglect or delay
such mission. With the morning's light he was seen guiding his shallop across the crimson waters
of the lake towards the peninsula of Muckruss, and having moored his little bark in safety
beneath the shelter of a wave-worn rock, he advanced with becoming dignity towards the abbey.

The stillness of the bright and balmy hour was broken by the heavy footsteps of the zealous
father: at the sound the startled deer, shaking the dew from their sides, sprang up from their
lair, and as they bounded off, "Hah," exclaimed Cuddy, "what a noble haunch goes there!--how
delicious it would look smoking upon a goodly platter."

As he proceeded, the mountain bee hummed his tune of gladness around the holy man, save when
buried in the foxglove bell, or revelling upon a fragrant bunch of thyme; and even then the
little voice murmured out happiness in low and broken tones of voluptuous delight. Father Cuddy
derived no small comfort from the sound, for it presaged a good metheglin season; and metheglin
he considered, if well manufactured, to be no bad liquor, particularly when there was no stint
or usquebaugh in the brewing.

Arrived within the abbey garth, he was received with due respect by the brethren of Irelagh,
and arrangements for the embarkation of the wine were completed to his entire satisfaction.--"Welcome,
Father Cuddy!" said the prior, "grace be on you."

"Grace before meat then," said Cuddy, "for a long walk always makes me hungry, and I am certain
I have not walked less than half-a-mile this morning, to say nothing of crossing the water."

A pasty of choice flavour felt the truth of this assertion as regarded Father Cuddy's appetite.
After such consoling repast, it would have been a reflection on monastic hospitality to have
departed without partaking of the grace-cup; moreover, Father Cuddy had a particular respect
for the antiquity of that custom. He liked the taste of the grace-cup well; he tried another,--it
was no less excellent; and when he had swallowed the third he found his heart expand, and put
forth its fibres, as willing to embrace all mankind! Surely then there is Christian love and
charity in wine!

I said he sung a good song. Now though psalms are good songs, and in accordance with his vocation,
I did not mean to imply that he was a mere psalm-singer. It was well known to the brethren,
that wherever Father Cuddy was, mirth and melody were with him. Mirth in his eye, and melody
on his tongue; and these, from experience, are equally well known to be thirsty commodities;
but he took good care never to let them run dry. To please the brotherhood, whose excellent
wine pleased him, he sung, and as "in vino veritas," his song will well become this veritable
history.

  "O, 'tis eggs are a treat
    When so while and so sweet
  From under the manger they're taken;
    And by fair Margery,
    Och! 'tis she's full of glee,
  They are fried with fat rashers of bacon.

  "Just like daisies all spread
    O'er a broad sunny mead
  In the sun-beams so beauteously shining,
    Are fried eggs, well displayed
    On a dish, when we've laid
  The cloth, and are thinking of dining."

Such was his song. Father Cuddy smacked his lips at the recollection of Margery's delicious
fried eggs, which always imparted a peculiar relish to his liquor. The very idea provoked Cuddy
to raise the cup to his mouth, and, with one hearty pull thereat, he finished its contents.

This is, and ever was, a censorious world, often construing what is only a fair allowance into
excess; but I scorn to reckon up any man's drink like an unrelenting host; therefore, I cannot
tell how many brimming draughts of wine, bedecked with the venerable Bead, Father Cuddy emptied
into his "soul-case," so he figuratively termed the body.

His respect for the goodly company of the monks of Irelagh detained him until adjournment to
vespers, when he set forward on his return to Innisfallen. Whether his mind was occupied in
philosophic contemplation or wrapped in pious musings, I cannot declare; but the honest father
wandered on in a different direction from that in which his shallop lay. Far be it from me
to insinuate that the good liquor, which he had so commended, had caused him to forget his
road, or that his track was irregular and unsteady. Oh, no!--he carried his drink bravely,
as became a decent man and a good Christian; yet, somehow, he thought he could distinguish
two moons. "Bless my eyes," said Father Cuddy, "everything is changing now-a-days!--the very
stars are not in the same places they used to be; I think Camceachta (the plough) is driving
on at a rate I never saw it before to-night; but I suppose the driver is drunk, for there are
blackguards everywhere."

Cuddy had scarcely uttered these words when he saw, or fancied he saw, the form of a young
woman, who, holding up a bottle, beckoned him towards her. The night was extremely beautiful,
and the white dress of the girl floated gracefully in the moonlight, as with gay step she tripped
on before the worthy father, archly looking back upon him over her shoulder. "Ah, Margery--merry
Margery!" cried Cuddy, "you tempting little rogue--'Et a Margery bella--Quae festiva puella.'
I see you--I see you and the bottle!--let me but catch you, Margery bella." And on he followed,
panting and smiling, after this alluring apparition.

At length his feet grew weary, and his breath failed, which obliged him to give up the chase;
yet such was his piety, that unwilling to rest in any attitude but that of prayer, down dropt
Father Cuddy on his knees. Sleep as usual stole upon his devotions, and the morning was far
advanced when he awoke from dreams, in which tables groaned beneath their load of viands, and
wine poured itself free and sparkling as the mountain spring.

