Pearson, well acquainted as he was with the peculiarities of his General, was baffled and confounded
by this fit of hesitation and contrition, by which his enterprising spirit appeared to be so
suddenly paralysed. After a moment's silence, he said, with some dryness of manner, "If this
be the case, it is a pity your Excellency came hither. Corporal Humgudgeon and I, the greatest
saint and greatest sinner in your army, had done the deed, and divided the guilt and the honour
betwixt us."

"Ha!" said Cromwell, as if touched to the quick, "wouldst thou take the prey from the lion?"

"If the lion behaves like a village cur," said Pearson boldly, "who now barks and seems as
if he would tear all to pieces, and now flies from a raised stick or a stone, I know not why
I should fear him. If Lambert had been here, there had been less speaking and more action."

"Lambert! What of Lambert?" said Cromwell, very sharply.

"Only," said Pearson, "that I long since hesitated whether I should follow your Excellency
or him--and I begin to be uncertain whether I have made the best choice, that's all."

"Lambert!" exclaimed Cromwell impatiently, yet softening his voice lest he should be overheard
descanting on the character of his rival,--"What is Lambert?--a tulip-fancying fellow, whom
nature intended for a Dutch gardener at Delft or Rotterdam. Ungrateful as thou art, what could
Lambert have done for thee?"

"He would not," answered Pearson, "have stood here hesitating before a locked door, when fortune
presented the means of securing, by one blow, his own fortune, and that of all who followed him."

"Thou art right, Gilbert Pearson," said Cromwell, grasping his officer's hand, and strongly
pressing it. "Be the half of this bold accompt thine, whether the reckoning be on earth or heaven."

"Be the whole of it mine hereafter," said Pearson hardily, "so your Excellency have the advantage
of it upon earth. Step back to the rear till I force the door--there may be danger, if despair
induce them to make a desperate sally."

"And if they do sally, is there one of my Ironsides who fears fire or steel less than myself?"
said the General. "Let ten of the most determined men follow us, two with halberts, two with
petronels, the others with pistols--Let all their arms be loaded, and fire without hesitation,
if there is any attempt to resist or to sally forth--Let Corporal Humgudgeon be with them,
and do thou remain here, and watch against escape, as thou wouldst watch for thy salvation."

The General then struck at the door with the hilt of his sword--at first with a single blow
or two, then with a reverberation of strokes that made the ancient building ring again. This
noisy summons was repeated once or twice without producing the least effect.

"What can this mean?" said Cromwell; "they cannot surely have fled, and left the house empty."

"No," replied Pearson, "I will ensure you against that; but your Excellency strikes so fiercely,
you allow no time for an answer. Hark! I hear the baying of a hound, and the voice of a man
who is quieting him--Shall we break in at once, or hold parley?"

"I will speak to them first," said Cromwell.--"Hollo! who is within there?"

"Who is it enquires?" answered Sir Henry Lee from the interior; "or what want you here at this
dead hour?"

"We come by warrant of the Commonwealth of England," said the General.

"I must see your warrant ere I undo either bolt or latch," replied the knight; "we are enough
of us to make good the castle: neither I nor my fellows will deliver it up but upon good quarter
and conditions; and we will not treat for these save in fair daylight."

"Since you will not yield to our right, you must try our might," replied Cromwell. "Look to
yourselves within; the door will be in the midst of you in five minutes."

"Look to yourselves without," replied the stout-hearted Sir Henry; "we will pour our shot upon
you, if you attempt the least violence."

But, alas! while he assumed this bold language, his whole garrison consisted of two poor terrified
women; for his son, in conformity with the plan which they had fixed upon, had withdrawn from
the hall into the secret recesses of the palace.

"What can they be doing now, sir?" said Phoebe, hearing a noise as it were of a carpenter turning
screw-nails, mixed with a low buzz of men talking.

"They are fixing a petard," said the knight, with great composure. "I have noted thee for a
clever wench, Phoebe, and I will explain it to thee: 'Tis a metal pot, shaped much like one
of the roguish knaves' own sugarloaf hats, supposing it had narrower brims--it is charged with
some few pounds of fine gunpowder. Then"--

"Gracious! we shall be all blown up!" exclaimed Phoebe,--the word gunpowder being the only
one which she understood in the knight's description.

"Not a bit, foolish girl. Pack old Dame Jellicot into the embrasure of yonder window," said
the knight, "on that side of the door, and we will ensconce ourselves on this, and we shall
have time to finish my explanation, for they have bungling engineers. We had a clever French
fellow at Newark would have done the job in the firing of a pistol."

They had scarce got into the place of security when the knight proceeded with his description.--"The
petard being formed, as I tell you, is secured with a thick and strong piece of plank, termed
the madrier, and the whole being suspended, or rather secured against the gate to be forced--But
thou mindest me not?"

"How can I, Sir Henry," she said, "within reach of such a thing as you speak of?--O Lord! I
shall go mad with very terror--we shall be crushed--blown up--in a few minutes!"

"We are secure from the explosion," replied the knight, gravely, "which will operate chiefly
in a forward direction into the middle of the chamber; and from any fragments that may fly
laterally, we are sufficiently guarded by this deep embrasure."

"But they will slay us when they enter," said Phoebe.

"They will give thee fair quarter, wench," said Sir Henry; "and if I do not bestow a brace
of balls on that rogue engineer, it is because I would not incur the penalty inflicted by martial
law, which condemns to the edge of the sword all persons who attempt to defend an untenable
post. Not that I think the rigour of the law could reach Dame Jellicot or thyself, Phoebe,
considering that you carry no arms. If Alice had been here she might indeed have done somewhat,
for she can use a birding-piece."

Phoebe might have appealed to her own deeds of that day, as more allied to feats of melee and
battle, than any which her young lady ever acted; but she was in an agony of inexpressible
terror, expecting, from the knight's account of the petard, some dreadful catastrophe, of what
nature she did not justly understand, notwithstanding his liberal communication on the subject.

"They are strangely awkward at it," said Sir Henry; "little Boutirlin would have blown the
house up before now.--Ah! he is a fellow would take the earth like a rabbit--if he had been
here, never may I stir but he would have countermined them ere now, and

  --''Tis sport to have the engineer
  Hoist with his own petard.'

as our immortal Shakspeare has it."

"Oh, Lord, the poor mad old gentleman," thought Phoebe--"Oh, sir, had you not better leave
alone playbooks, and think of your end?" uttered she aloud, in sheer terror and vexation of spirit.

"If I had not made up my mind to that many days since," answered the knight, "I had not now
met this hour with a free bosom--

  'As gentle and as jocund as to rest,
  Go I to death--truth hath a quiet breast.'"

