By this time I was dressed, and had gone from under the awning on deck. The first thing I did
was to glance my eye over the nettings, and there perceived on our quarter, three dead bodies,
as Mr Swop had said, floating----one a white Spaniard, and the others the corpses of two unfortunate
Africans, who had perished miserably when the brig went down.  The white man's remains, swollen
as they were, from the heat of the climate, and sudden putrefaction consequent thereon, floated
quietly within pistol--shot, motionless and still; but the bodies of the two negroes were nearly
hidden by the clustering sea--birds which had perched on them.  There were at least two dozen
shipped on each carcass, busy with their beaks and claws, while, on the other hand, the water
in the immediate neighbourhood seemed quite alive, from the rushing and walloping of numberless
fishes, who were tearing the prey piecemeal. The view was any thing but pleasant, and I naturally
turned my eyes forward to see what was going on in the bows of the schooner.  I was startled
from the number of black faces which I saw.

"Why, Mr Tailtackle, how many of these poor creatures have we on board?"

"There are fifty--nine, sir, under hatches in the fore--hold," said Timothy, "and thirty--five
on deck; but I hope we shan't have them long, sir.  It looks like a breeze to windward.  We
shall have it before long, sir."

At this moment Mr Bang came on deck.

"Lord, Tom, I thought it was a flea--bite, last night, but, mercy, I am as stiff and sore as
a gentleman need be.  How do you feel? I see you have one of your fins in a sling--eh?"

"I am a little stiff, certainly; however, that will go off; but come forward here, my dear
sir; come here, and look at this shot--hole--saw you ever anything like that?"

This was the smashing of one of our pumps from a round shot, the splinters from which were
stuck into the bottom of the launch, which overhung it, forming really a figure very like the
letter A.

"Don't take it to myself, Tom--no, not at all."

At this moment the black savages on the forecastle discovered our friend, and shouts of "Sheik
Cocoloo" rent the skies.  Mr Bang, for a moment, appeared startled, so far as I could judge,
he had forgotten that part of his exploit, and did not know what to make of it, until at last
the actual meaning seemed to flash on him, when, with a shout of laughter, he bolted in through
the opening of the flags to his former quarters below the awning.  I descended to the cabin,
breakfast having been announced, and sat down to our meal, confronted by Paul Gelid and Pepperpot
Wagtail.  Presently we heard Aaron sing out, the small skuttle being right overhead, "Pegtop,
come here, Pegtop, I say, help me on with my neckcloth--so--that will do; now I shall go on
deck.  Why, Pearl, my boy, what do you want?" and before Pearl could get a word in, Aaron continued,
"I say, Pearl, go to the other end of the ship, and tell your Coromantee friends that it is
all a humbug that I am not the Sultan Cocoloo; farther more, that I have not a feather in my
tail like a palm branch, of the truth of which I offer to give them ocular proof."

Pearl made his salaam.  "Oh, sir, I fear that we must not say too much on that subject; we
have not irons for one half of them savage negirs;" the fellow was as black as a coal himself;
"and were they to be undeceived, why, reduced as our crew is, they might at any time rise on,
and massacre the whole watch."

"The devil!" we could hear friend Aaron say; "oh, then, go forward, and assure them that I
am a bigger ostrich than ever, and I shall astonish them presently, take my word for it.  Pegtop,
come here, you scoundrel," he continued; "I say, Pegtop, get me out my uniform coat,"--our
friend was a captain of Jamaica militia--"so--and my sword--that will do--and here, pull off
my trowsers it will be more classical to perambulate in my shirt, in case it really be necessary
to persuade them that the palm branch was all a figure of speech.  Now, my hat--there--walk
before me, and fan me with the top of that herring barrel."

This was a lid of one of the wadding--tubs, which, to come up to Jigmaree's notions of neatness,
had been fitted with covers, and forth stumped Bang, preceded by Pegtop doing the honours.
But the instant he appeared from beneath the flags, the same wild shout arose from the captive
slaves forward, and such of them as were not fettered, immediately began to bundle and tumble
round our friend, rubbing their flat noses and woolly heads all over him, and taking hold of
the hem of his garment, whereby his personal decency was so seriously periled, that, after
an unavailing attempt to shake them off, he fairly bolted, and ran for shelter, once more,
under the awning, amidst the suppressed mirth of the whole crew, Aaron himself laughing louder
than any of them all the while.  "I say, Tom, and fellow sufferers," quoth he, after he had
run to earth under the awning, and looking down the scuttle into the cabin where we were at
breakfast, "how am I to get into the cabin? if I go out on the quarterdeck but one arm's length,
in order to reach the companion, these barbarians will be at me again.  Ah, I see"

Whereupon, without more ado, he stuck his legs down through the small hatch right over the
breakfast table, with the intention of descending, and the first thing he accomplished, was
to pop his foot into a large dish of scalding hominy, or hasty--pudding, made of Indian corn
meal, with which Wagtail was in the habit of commencing his stowage at breakfast.  But this
proving too hot for comfort, he instantly drew it out, and in his attempt to reascend, he stuck
his bespattered toe into Paul Gelid's mouth.  "Oh! oh!" exclaimed Paul, while little Wagtail
lay back laughing like to die; but the next instant Bang gave another struggle, or wallop,
like a pelloch in shoal--water, whereby Pepperpot borrowed a good kick on the side of the head,
and down came the Great Ostrich, Aaron Bang, but without any feather in his tail, as I can
avouch, slap upon the table, smashing cups and saucers, and hominy, and devil knows what all,
to pieces, as he floundered on the board.  This was so absurd, that we were all obliged to
give uncontrolled course to our mirth for a minute or two, when, making the best of the wreck,
we contrived to breakfast in tolerable comfort.

Soon after the meal was finished, a light air enabled us once more to lie our course, and we
gradually crept to the northward, until twelve o'clock in the forenoon, after which time it
fell calm again.  I went down to the cabin; Bang had been overhauling my small library, when
a shelf gave way (the whole affair having been injured by a round shot in the action, which
had tom right through the cabin), so down came several scrolls, rolled up, and covered with
brown paper.

"What are all these?" I could hear our friend say. "They are my logs," said I.

"Your what?"

"My private journals."

"Oh, I see," said Aaron.  "I will have a turn at them, with your permission.  But what is this
so carefully bound with red tape, and sealed, and marked--let me see, 'Thomas Cringle, his
log--book.'"

He looked at me.--"Why, my dear sir, to say the truth, that is my first attempt; full of trash,
believe me;--what else could you expect, from so mere a lad as I was when I wrote it?"

"The child is father to the man," Tom, my boy; so may I peruse it; may I read it for the edification
of my learned allies,--Pepperpot Wagtail, and Paul Gelid, esquires?"

"Certainly," I replied, "no objection in the world, but you will laugh at me, I know; still,
do as you please, only, had you not better have your wound dressed first?"

"My wound!  Poo, poo! just enough to swear by--a flea--bite never mind it; so here goes"--and
he read aloud what is detailed in the "Launching of the Log," making his remarks with so much
naivete, that I daresay the reader will be glad to hear a few of them.  His anxiety, for instance,
when he read of the young aide--de--camp being shot and dragged by the stirrup, to know "what
became of the empty horse," was very entertaining; and when he had read the description of
Davoust's face and person, where I describe his nose, as neither fine nor dumpy--a fair enough
proboscis as noses go, he laid down the Log with the most laughable seriousness.

"Now," quoth he, "very inexplicit all this, Tom.  Why, I am most curious in noses. I judge
of character altogether from the nose.  I never lose sight of a man's snout, albeit I never
saw the tip of my own.  You may rely on it, that it is all a mistake to consider the regular
Roman nose, with a curve like a shoemaker's paring knife, or the straight Grecian, with a thin
transparent ridge, that you can see through, or the Deutsch meerschaum, or the Saxon pump--handle,
or the Scotch mull, or any other nose, that can be taken hold of, as the standard gnomon. 
No, no; I never saw a man with a large nose who was not a blockhead--eh!  Gelid, my love? 
The pimple for me--the regular pimple but allons."--And where, having introduced the German
refugees to Captain Deadeye, I go on to say that I thereupon dived into the midshipmen's berth
for a morsel of comfort, and was soon "far into the secrets of a pork pie,"--he lay back, and
exclaimed with a long drawling emphasis--"A pork pie!"

"A pork pie!" said Paul Gelid.

"Why, do you know," said Mr Wagtail--"I--why, I never in all my life saw a pork pie."

"My dear Pepperpot," chimed in Gelid, "we both forget.  Don't you remember the day we dined
with the Admiral at the pen, in July last?"

"No," said Wagtail, "I totally forget it." Bang, I saw was all this while chuckling to himself--"I
absolutely forget it altogether."

"Bless me," said Gelid, "don't you remember the beautiful calipeever we had that day?"

"Really I do not," said Pepperpot, "I have had so many good feeds there."

"Why," continued Gelid, "Lord love you, Wagtail, not remember that calipeever, so crisp in
the broiling?"

"No," said Wagtail, "really I do not."

"Lord, man, it had a pudding in its belly."

"Oh, now I remember," said Wagtail.

Bang laughed outright, and I could not help making a hole in my manners also, even prepared
as I was for my jest by my sable crony Pegtop.--To proceed.

Aaron looked at me with one of his quizzical grins; "Cringle, my darling, do you keep these
Logs still?"

"I do, my dear sir, invariably."

"What," struck in little Wagtail, "the deuce!--for instance shall I, and Paul, and Aaron there,
all be embalmed or preserved" ("Say pickled," quoth the latter) "in these said Logs of yours?"
This was too absurd, and I could not answer my allies for laughing.  As for Gelid, he had been
swaying himself backwards and forwards, half asleep, on the hind legs of his chair all this
while, puffing away at a cigar.

"Ah!" said he half asleep, and but partly overhearing what was going on; "ah, Tom, my dear,
you don't say that we shall all be handed down to our poster"--a long yawn--"to our poster"
another yawn--when Bang, watching his opportunity as he sat opposite, gently touched one of
the fore--legs of the balanced chair with his toe, while he finished Gelid's sentence by interjecting,
"iors," as the conch fell back and floundered over on his stem; his tormentor drawling out
in wicked mimicry.

"Yes, dear Gelid, so sure as you have been landed down on your posteriors now--ah--you shall
be handed down to your posterity hereafter, by that pestilent little scamp Cringle.  Ah, Tom,
I know you. Paul, Paul, it will be paulo postfuturum with you, my lad."

Here we were interrupted by my steward's entering with his tallow face. "Dinner on the table,
sir." We adjourned accordingly.

After dinner we carried on very much as usual, although the events of the previous day had
their natural effect; there was little mirth, and no loud laughter.  Once more we all turned
in, the calm still continuing, and next morning after breakfast, friend Aaron took to the Log
again.

But the most amusing exhibition took place when he came to the description of the row in the
dark stair at the agent's house, where the negroes fight for the scraps, and capsize Treenail,
myself, and the brown lady, down the steps.

"Why, I say, Tom," again quoth Aaron, "I never knew before, that you were in Jamaica at the
period you here write of."

"Why, my dear sir, I scarcely can say that I was there, my visit was so hurried."

"Hurried!" rejoined he, "hurried--by no means; were you not in the island for four or five
hours?  Ah, long enough to have authorized your writing an anti--slavery pamphlet of one hundred
and fifty pages."

I smiled.

"Oh, you may laugh, my boy, but it is true--what a subject for an anti-- slavery lecture--listen
and be instructed." Here our friend shook himself as a bruiser does to ascertain that all is
right before he throws up his guard, and for the first five minutes he only jerked his right
shoulder this way and his left shoulder t'other way, while his fins walloped down against his
sides like empty sleeves; at length, as he warmed, he stretched forth his arms like Saint Paul
in the Cartoon and although he now and then could not help sticking his tongue in his cheek,
still the exhibition was so true and so exquisitely comical, that I never shall forget it.--"The
whole white inhabitants of Kingston are luxurious monsters, living in more than Eastern splendour;
and their universal practice, during their magnificent repasts, is to entertain themselves,
by compelling their black servants to belabour each other across the pate with silver ladles,
and to stick drumsticks of turkeys down each other's throats.  Merciful heaven! only picture
the miserable slaves, each with the spaul of a turkey sticking in his gob; dwell upon that,
my dearly beloved hearers, dwell upon that--and then let those who have the atrocious hardihood
to do so, speak of the kindliness of the planters hearts.  Kindliness! kindliness, to cram
the leg of a turkey down a man's throat, while his yoke--fellow in bondage is fracturing his
tender woolly skull--for all negroes, as is well known, have craniums, much thinner, and more
fragile than an egg--shell--with so tremendous a weapon as a silver ladle?  Ay, a silver ladle!!!
Some people make light of a silver ladle as an instrument of punishment--it is spoken of as
a very slight affair, and that the blows inflicted by it are mere child's play.  If any of
you, my beloved hearers, labour under this delusion, and will allow me, for your edification,
to hammer you about the chops with one of the aforesaid silver soup--ladles of those yellow
tyrants, for one little half hour, I pledge myself the delusion shall be dispelled once and
for ever.  Well then, after this fearful scene has continued for, I dare not say how long--the
black butler--ay, the black butler, a slave himself--oh, my friends, even the black butlers
are slaves the very men who minister the wine in health which maketh their hearts glad, and
the castor oil in sickness, which maketh them any thing but of a cheerful countenance--this
very black butler is desired, on peril of having a drumstick stuck into his own gizzard also,
and his skull fractured by the aforesaid iron ladles--red hot, it may be--ay, and who shall
say they are not full of molten lead? yes, molten lead-- does not our reverend brother Lachrimac
Roarem say that the ladles might have been full of molten lead, and what evidence have we on
the other side, that they were not full of molten lead?  Why, none at all, none-- nothing but
the oaths of all the naval and military officers who have ever served in these pestilent settlements;
and of all the planters and merchants in the West Indies, the interested planters--those planters
who suborn all the navy and army to a man--those planters whose molasses is but another name
for human blood. (Here a large puff and blow, and a swabification of the white handkerchief,
while the congregation blow a flourish of trumpets.) My friends--(another puff)--my friends--we
all know, my friends, that bullocks blood is largely used in the sugar refineries in England,
but, alas! there is no bullocks  blood used in the refineries in the West Indies.  This I will
prove to you on the oath of six dissenting clergymen.  No. What then is the inference?  Oh,
is it not palpable?  Do you not every day, as jurors, hang men on circumstantial evidence?
Are not many of yourselves hanged and transported every year, on the simple fact being proved,
of your being found stooping down in pity over some poor fellow with a broken head, with your
hands in his breeches pockets in order to help him up? And can you fail to draw the proper
inference in the present case?  Oh, no! no! my friends, it is the blood of the negroes that
is used in these refining pandemoniums of the poor negroes, who are worth one hundred pounds
apiece to their masters, and on whose health and capacity for work these same planters absolutely
and entirely depend."

Here our friend gathered all his energies, and began to roar like a perfect bull of Bashan,
and to swing his arms about like the sails of a windmill, and to stamp and jump, and lollop
about with his body as he went on.

"Well, this butler, this poor black butler--this poor black slave butler this poor black Christian
slave butler--for he may have been a Christian, and most likely was a Christian, and indeed
must have been a Christian--is enforced, after all the cruelties already related, on pain of
being choked with the leg of a turkey himself, and having molten lead poured down his own throat,
to do what?--who would not weep?--to--to--to chuck each of his fellow--servants, poor miserable
creatures! each with a bone in his throat, and molten lead in his belly, and a fractured skull--to
chuck them, neck and croup, one after another, down a dark staircase, a pitch--dark staircase,
amidst a chaos of plates and dishes, and the hardest and most expensive china, and the finest
cut crystal-- that the wounds inflicted may be the keener and silver spoons, and knives and
forks.  Yea, my Christian brethren, carving knives and pitchforks right down on the top of
their brown mistresses, who are thereby invariably bruised like the clown in the pantomime--at
least as I am told he is, for I never go to such profane Places--oh, no!--bruised as flat as
pancakes, and generally murdered outright on the spot.  Last of all the landlord gets up, and
kicks the miserable butler himself down after his mates, into the very heart of the living
mass; and this not once and away, but every day in the week, Sundays not excepted.  Oh, my
dear, dear hearers, can you can you, with your fleshy hearts thumping and bumping against your
small ribs, forget the black butler, and the mulatto concubines, and the pitchforks, and the
iron ladles full of molten lead?  My feelings overpower me, I must conclude.  Go in peace,
and ponder these things in your hearts, and pay your sixpences at the doors.--Exeunt omnes,
piping their eyes, and blowing their noses."

Our shouts of laughter interrupted our friend, who never moved a muscle.

Again, where old Crowfoot asks his steward--"How does the privateer lay?"

"There again now," said Aaron, with an irritable grin,--"why, Tom, your style is most pestilent--you
lay here and you lay there--are you sure that you are not a hen, Tom?"

One more touch at Massa Aaron, and I have done.  After coming to the description of the horrible
carnage that the fire from the Transport caused on the privateer's deck before she sheered
off, I remarked "I never recall that early and dismal scene to my recollection,--the awful
havoc created on the schooner's deck by our fire, the struggling, and crawling, and wriggling
of the dark mass of wounded men, as they endeavoured, fruitlessly, to shelter themselves from
our guns, even behind the dead bodies of their slain shipmates--without conjuring up a very
fearful and harrowing image."

"Were you ever at Biggleswade, my dear sir?"

"To be sure I have," said Mr Bang.

"Then did you ever see an eel--pot, with the water drawn off, when the snake--like fish were
twining, and twisting, and crawling, like Brobdignag maggots, in living knots, a horrible and
disgusting mass of living abomination, amidst the filthy slime at the bottom?"

"Ach--have done, Tom--hang your similes.  Can't you cut your coat by me, man?  Only observe
the delicacy of mine."

"The corby craw for instance," said I, laughing.

"Ever at Biggleswade!" struck in Paul Gelid.  "Ever at Biggleswade! Lord love you, Cringle,
we have all been at Biggleswade.  Don't you know," (how he conceived I should have known, I
am sure I never could tell,) "don't you know that Wagtail and I once made a voyage to England,
ay, in the hurricane months, too--ah--for the express purpose of eating eels there,--and Lord,
Tom, my dear fellow," (here he sunk his voice into a most dolorous key,) "let me tell you that
we were caught in a hurricane, in the Gulf, and very nearly lost, when, instead of eating eels,
sharks would have eaten usah--and at length driven into Havannah-- ah.  And when we did get
home"--(here I thought my excellent friend would have cried outright)--"Lord, sir! we found
that the fall was not the season to eat eels in after all--ah--that is, in perfection.  But
we found out from Whiffle, whom we met in town, and who had learned it from the guard of the
North mail, that one of the last season's pots was still on hand at Biggleswade; so down we
trundled in the mail that very evening."

"And don't you remember the awful cold I caught that night, being obliged to go outside?" quoth
Waggy.

"Ah, and so you did, my dear fellow," continued his ally.

"But gracious--on alighting, we found that the agent of a confounded gormandizing Lord Mayor
had that very evening boned the entire contents of the only remaining pot, for a cursed livery
dinnerah. Eels, indeed! we got none but those of the new catch, full of mud, and tasting of
mud and red worms.  Wagtail was really very ill in consequence--ah."

Pepperpot had all this while listened with mute attention, as if the narrative had been most
moving, and I question not he thought so; but Bang--oh, the rogue!--looked also very grave
and sympathizing, but there was a laughing devil in his eye, that showed he was inwardly enjoying
the beautiful rise of his friends.

We were here interrupted by a hail from the look--out man at the masthead,----'Land right a--head.'

"What does it look like?" said I.

"It makes in low hummocks, sir.  Now I see houses on the highest one."

"Hurrah, Nassau, New Providence, ho!"

Shortly after we made the land about Nassau, the breeze died away, and it fell nearly calm.

"I say, Thomas," quoth Aaron, "for this night at least we must still be your guests, and lumber
you on board of your seventy--four.  No chance, so far as I see, of getting into port to--night;
at least if we do, it will be too late to go on shore."

He said truly, and we therefore made up our mind to sit down once more to our rough and round
dinner, in the small, hot, choky cabin of the Wave.  As it happened, we were all in high glee.
I flattered myself that my conduct in the late affair would hoist me up a step or two on the
roster for promotion, and my excellent friends were delighted at the idea of getting on shore.

After the cloth had been drawn, Mr Bang opened his fire.

"Tom, my boy, I respect your service, but I have no great ambition to belong to it. I am sure
no bribe that I am aware of could ever tempt me to make 'my home upon the deep,' and I really
am not sure that it is a very gentlemanly calling after all.--Nay, don't look glum; what I
meant was, the egregious weariness of spirit you must all undergo from consorting with the
same men day after day, hearing the same jokes repeated for the hundredth time, and, whichever
way you turn, seeing the same faces morning, noon, and night, and listening to the same voices.
Oh! I should die in a year's time were I to become a sailor."

"But," rejoined I, "you have your land bores in the same way that we have our sea bores; and
we have this advantage over you, that if the devil should stand at the door, we can always
escape from them sooner or later, and can buoy up our souls with the certainty that we can
so escape from them at the end of the cruise at the farthest; whereas if you happen to have
taken root amidst a colony of bores on shore, why you never can escape, unless you sacrifice
all your temporalities for that purpose; ergo, my dear sir, our life has its advantages, and
yours has it disadvantages."

"Too true--too true," rejoined Mr Bang.  "In fact, judging from my own small experience, Borism
is fast attaining a head it never reached before.  Speechifying is the crying and prominent
vice of the age.  Why will the ganders not recollect that eloquence is the gift of heaven,
Thomas?  A man may improve it unquestionably, but the Promethean fire, the electrical spark,
must be from on high.  No mental perseverance or education could ever have made a Demosthenes,
or a Cicero, in the ages long past; nor an Edmund Burke"

"Nor an Aaron Bang in times present," said I.

"Hide my roseate blushes, Thomas," quoth Aaron, as he continued--"Would that men would speak
according to their gifts, study Shakspeare and Don Quixote, and learn of me; and that the real
blockhead would content himself with speaking when he is spoken to, drinking when he is drucken
to, and ganging to the kirk when the bell rings.  You never can go into a party nowadays, that
you don't meet with some shallow, prosing, pestilent ass of a fellow, who thinks that empty
sound is conversation; and not unfrequently there is a spice of malignity in the blockhead's
composition; but a creature of this calibre you can wither, for it is not worth crushing, by
withholding the sunshine of your countenance from it, or by leaving it to drivel on, until
the utter contempt of the whole company claps to change the figure--a wet night--cap as an
extinguisher on it, and its small stinking flame flickers and goes out of itself. Then there
is your sentimental water--fly, who blaws in the lugs of the women, and clips the King's English,
and your high--flying dominie body, who whumles them outright. I speak in a figure.  But all
these are as dust in the balance to the wearisome man of ponderous acquirements, the solemn
blockhead who usurps the pas, and if he happen to be rich, fancies himself entitled to prose
and palaver away, as if he were Sir Oracle, or as if the pence in his purse could ever fructify
the cauld parritch in his pate into pregnant brain.  There is a plateful of P's for you at
any rate, Tom.  Beautiful exemplification of the art alliterative--an't it?"

'Oh that Heaven the gift would gie us, To see ourselves as others see us!'

