LIFE IN THE ROMAN WORLD OF NERO AND ST. PAUL

by

T. G. TUCKER

1924

PREFACE

The reception accorded to my Life in Ancient Athens has led me to write the present companion
work with an eye to the same class of readers. In the preface to the former volume it was said:
"I have sought to leave an impression true and sound, so far as it goes, and also vivid and
distinct. The style adopted has therefore been the opposite of the pedantic, utilizing any
vivacities of method which are consistent with truth of fact." The same principles have guided
me in the present equally unpretentious treatise. I agree entirely with Mr. Warde Fowler when
he says: "I firmly believe that the one great hope for classical learning and education lies
in the interest which the unlearned public may be brought to feel in ancient life and thought."

For the general reader there is perhaps no period in the history of the ancient world which
is more interesting than the one here chosen. Yet, so far as I know, there exists no sufficiently
popular work dealing with this period alone and presenting in moderate compass a clear general
view of the matters of most moment. My endeavour has been to represent as faithfully as possible
the Age of Nero, and nowhere in the book is it implied that what is true for that age is necessarily
as true for any other. The reader who is not a special student of history or antiquities is
perhaps as often confused by descriptions of ancient life which cover too many generations
as by those--often otherwise excellent--which include too much detail.

I have necessarily consulted not only the Latin and Greek writers who throw light upon the
time, but also all the best-known Standard works of modern date. It is perhaps scarcely necessary
to state that in matters of contemporary government, administration, and public life my guides
have been chiefly Mommsen, Arnold, and Greenidge; for social life Marquardt, Friedländer, and
Becker-Göll; for topography and buildings Jordan, Hülsen, Lanciani, and Middleton; nor that
the Dictionaries of Smith and of Daremberg and Saglio have been always at hand, as well as
Baumeister's Denkmäler, and Guhl and Koner's Life of the Greeks and Romans. The admirable Pompeii
of Mau-Kelsey has been, of course, indispensable. I have also derived profit from the writings
of Prof. Sir W. M. Ramsay in connexion with St. Paul, and from Conybeare and Howson's Life
and Epistles of the Apostle. Useful hints have been found in Mr. Warde Fowler's Social Life
in Rome in the Age of Cicero, and in Prof. Dill's Roman Society from Nero to Marcus Aurelius.
A personal study of ancient sites, monuments, and objects of antiquity at Rome, Pompeii, and
elsewhere has naturally been of prime value. Those intimately acquainted with the immense amount
of the available material will best realize the difficulty there has been in deciding how much
to say and how much to "leave in the inkstand."

For the drawings other than those of which another source is specified I have to thank Miss
M. O'Shea, on whom has occasionally fallen the difficult task of giving ocular form to the
mental visions of one who happens to be no draughtsman. For the rest I make acknowledgment
to those books from which the illustrations have been directly derived for my own purposes,
without reference to more original sources.

I am especially grateful for the permission to use so considerable a number of illustrations
from the Pompeii of Mau-Kelsey, from Professor Waldstein's Herculaneum, and from Lanciani's
New Tales of Old Rome.

T.G.T.

October 1909.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTERS

    I EXTENT AND SECURITY OF THE EMPIRE

   II TRAVEL WITHIN THE EMPIRE

  III A BRIEF SURVEY OF THE PROVINCES

   IV THE IMPERIAL SYSTEM: EMPEROR, SENATE, KNIGHTS, AND PEOPLE

    V NERO THE EMPEROR

   VI ADMINISTRATION AND TAXATION OF THE EMPIRE

  VII ROME: THE IMPERIAL CITY

 VIII STREETS, WATER-SUPPLY, AND BUILDING MATERIAL

   IX THE ROMAN TOWN HOUSE

    X THE COUNTRY HOMESTEAD AND COUNTRY SEAT

   XI ROMAN FURNITURE

  XII SOCIAL DAY OF A ROMAN ARISTOCRAT--MORNING

 XIII SOCIAL DAY OF A ROMAN ARISTOCRAT (continued)--AFTERNOON AND
      DINNER

  XIV LIFE IN THE MIDDLE AND LOWER CLASSES

   XV HOLIDAYS AND AMUSEMENTS: THEATRE, CIRCUS, AMPHITHEATRE

  XVI THE WOMEN: MARRIAGE, THE ROMAN MATRON, AND HER DRESS

 XVII CHILDREN AND EDUCATION

XVIII THE ARMY: MILITARY SERVICE: PUBLIC CAREER

  XIX ROMAN RELIGION--STATE AND INDIVIDUAL

   XX STUDY AND SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE AMONG THE ROMANS

  XXI PHILOSOPHY--STOICS AND EPICUREANS

 XXII THE ROMAN PROFUSION OF ART

XXIII THE LAST SCENE OF ALL--BURIAL AND TOMBS

INDEX

ILLUSTRATIONS

FIG.

Frontispiece

      View into Roman Forum from Temple of Vesta, A.D. 64.
      (Restoration partly after Auer, Hülsen, Tognetti, etc.).

  1. The Pont du Gard (Aqueduct and Bridge).

  2. The Appian Way by the so-called Tomb of Seneca (Laneiani, New
     Tales of Old Rome).

  3. Plan of Inn at Pompeii. (After Mau).

  4. Ship beside the Quay at Ostia. (Hill, Illustrations of School
     Classics, FIG. 498 ).

  6. The Acropolis at Athens. (From D'Ooge).

  7. Plan of Antioch.

  8. Emblem of Antioch. (Dict. of Geog. i. 116 ).

  9. Emblem of Alexandria. (Mau, Pompeii, Fig 187).

 10.  Emblem of Rome. (From the column of Antoninus at Rome).

 11.  Augustus as Emperor.

 12.  Coin of Nero. (In the British Museum).

 13.  Bust of Seneca. (Archäiologische Zeitung).

 14.  Agrippina, Mother of Nero. (Photo, Mansell & Co.).

 15.  Bust of Nero.

 16.  Some Remains of the Claudian Aqueduct.

 17.  The Rostra: back view. (Modified from Hülsen).

 18.  Ruins of Forum. (Record-Office in background with modern building
      above.) (Photo, Anderson).

 19.  N.E. of Forum, A.D. 64.  (Complementary to Frontispiece).

 20.  Temple of Fortuna Augusta at Pompeii. (Mau, FIG. 58).

 21.  So-called Temple of the Sibyl at Tivoli.

 22.  Vestal Virgin. (Hill, FIG. 340 ).

 23.  Temple of Mars the Avenger in Forum of Augustus. (After
      Ripostelli).

 24.  Exterior of Theatre of Marcellus. (Present state).

 25.  Exterior of Theatre of Marcellus. (Restored).

 26.  A Greek Exedra. (Baumeister).

 27.  Circus Maximus (restored). (Modified from Guhl and Koner).

 28.  Building Materials. (From Middleton).

 29.  Typical Scheme of Roman House.

 30.  Entrance to House of Pansa.

 31.  Interior of Roman House. (Restored).

 32.  House of Cornelius Rufus. (Mau, FIG. 121 ).

 33.  Peristyle with Garden and al fresco Dining-Table. (After Guhl and
      Koner).

 34.  Peristyle in House of the Vettii. (Present state) (Mau, FIG.
      162).

 35.  Kitchen Hearth in the House of the Vettii. (Mau, FIG. 125).

 36.  Cooking Hearths. (Dict. Ant. i. 672).

 37.  Shrine in House of the Tragic Poet. (Mau, FIG. 153 ).

 38.  Household Shrine.  (Hill, FIG. 345).

 38A. Leaden Pipes in House of Livia. (From a photograph).

 39.  Portable Braziers. (Daremberg and Saglio).

 40.  Manner of Roofing with Tiles.

 41.  House of Pansa at Pompeii. (After Mau).

 42.  House of the Vettii at Pompeii. (After Mau).

 43.  Specimen of Painted Room.

 44.  Specimen of Wall-Painting. (Mau, FIG. 264).

 45.  Plan of Homestead at Boscoreale. (After Mau).

 46.  Roman Folding Chair. (Schreiber).

 47.  Bronze Seat. (Overbeck).

 48.  Framework of Roman Couch. (Mau, FIG. 188).

 49.  Plan of Dining-Table with Three Couches.

 50.  Sigma.

 51.  Tripod from Herculaneum. (From Waldstein, Herculaneum, Plate
      41).

 52.  Chest (Strong-box). (Mau, FIG. 120).

 53.  Mirrors. (Mau, FIG. 213).

 54.  Lamps. (Mau, FIG. 196).

 55.  Lampholder as Tree. (Mau, FIG. 202).

 56.  Cup from Herculaneum. (Waldstein, Plate 45).

 57.  Kitchen Utensils. (Mau, FIG. 204).

 58.  Pail from Herculaneum. (Waldstein, Plate 42).

 59.  Patrician Shoes.  (Dict. Ant. i. 335).

 60.  Roman in the Toga.  (Waldstein, Plate 18).

 61.  Slave in Fetters.

 62.  Litter. (Dict. Ant. ii. 15).

 63.  Reading a Proclamation. (Mau, FIG. 17).

 64.  Sealed Receipt of Jueundus. (Mau, FIG. 275).

 65.  Discus-Thrower. (Photo, Anderson).

 66.  Stabian Baths.  (Mau, Plate 5).

 67.  Bathing Implements. (Mau, FIG. 209).

 68.  Acrobats. (Baumeister, i. 585).

 69.  Surgical Instruments. (Guhl and Koner).

 70.  Bakers' Mills. (Mau, FIG. 218).

 71.  Cupids as Goldsmiths. (Wall-Painting.)(Mau, FIG. 167).

 72.  Garland-Makers. (Abhandlungen, historische-philologische
      Classe Königlich Sächsischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften).

 73.  Bust of Caecilius Jueundus. (Mau, FIG. 256).

 74.  Ploughs. (Hill, FIG. 383; Dict. Ant. i. 160).

 75.  Tools on Tomb. (Dict. Ant. ii. 243).

 76.  Pompeian Cook-Shop. (Mau, FIG. 131).

 77.  In a Wine-Shop. (Mau, FIG. 234).

 78.  Boxing-Gloves. (Dict. Ant. i. 329).

 79.  Theatre at Orange. (Restored.) (Baumeister, iii. 1742).

 80.  Theatre at Aspendus. (Guhl and Koner).

 81.  Tragic Actor. (Hill, FIG. 421).

 82.  Comic Masks. (Terence's Andria).

 83.  Scene from Comedy. (Hill, FIG. 422).

 84.  Plan of Circus.

 85.  The Turn in the Circus.

 86.  Chariot Race. (Dict. Ant. i. 434).

 87.  Amphitheatre at Pompeii. (Mau, Plate 6).

 88.  Barracks of Gladiators. (Mau, Plate 4).

 89.  Stocks for Gladiators. (Remains from Pompeii.) (Mau, FIG. 74).

 90.  Gladiators Fighting. (Guhl and Koner).

 91.  Toilet Scene. (Wall-Painting.) (Waldstein, Plate 32).

 92.  Woman in Full Dress. (Waldstein, Plate 7).

 93.  Hairpins. (Mau, FIG. 211).

 94.  Writing Materials.

 95.  Horsing a Boy. (After Sächs.) (Baumeister, iii. FIG. 1653).

 96.  Papyri and Tabulae. (From Dyer's Pompeii).

 97.  Roman Standards. (Guhl and Koner).

 98.  Armed Soldier.

 99.  A Roman General. (Hill, FIG. 465).

100.  Centurion. (Hill, FIG. 466).

101.  Standard-Bearer. (Hill, FIG. 470).

102.  Baggage-Train. (Daremberg and Saglio, FIG. 1196).

103.  Soldiers with Packs. (Seyffert, Dict. Class. Ant. p. 348).

104.  Roman Soldiers Marching. (Schreiber).

105.  Imperial Guards. (Guhl and Koner).

106.  Besiegers with the "Tortoise." (Hill, FIG. 481).

107.  Roman Artillery. (Dict. Ant. ii. 855).

108.  Auxiliary Cavalryman. (Dict. Ant.  i. 790).

109.  Jupiter. (Vatican Museum).

110.  A Sacrifice. (Mau, FIG. 44).

111.  Isis Worship. (Wall-Painting.) (Mau, FIG. 81).

112.  Household Shrine. (Mau, FIG. 127).

113.  The World (approximately) as conceived about A.D. 100.

114.  The Dying Gaul.

115.  A "Candeliera" or Marble Pilaster of the Basilica Aemilia
      (Lanciani, New Tales, etc., p. 147).

116.  Fragments of the Architecture of the Regia.  (Lanciani, p. 70).

117.  Wall-Painting. (Woman with Tablets.) (Waldstein, Herculaneum,
      Plate 35).

118.  Wall-Painting from Herculaneum. (Women playing with
      Knuckle-Bones.) (Waldstein, Plate 4).

119.  Lyre and Harp.

120.  "Conclamatio" of the Dead. (Guhl and Koner).

121.  Tomb of Caecilia Metella.

122.  Street of Tombs. (Mau, Plate 10).

123.  Columbarium. (Guhl and Koner).

124.  Temple of Jupiter on the Capitol.

MAPS AND PLANS:

      Map of Roman Empire, A.D. 64.

      Plan of Rome with Chief Topographical Features.

      Plan of Forum, A.D. 64.

INTRODUCTION

The subject of this book is "Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul." This is not quite
the same thing as "Life in Ancient Rome" at the same date. Our survey is to be somewhat wider
than that of the imperial city itself, with its public and private structures, its public and
private life. The capital, and these topics concerning it, will naturally occupy the greater
portion of our time and interest. But it is quite impossible to realise Rome, its civilisation,
and the meaning of its monuments, unless we first obtain some general comprehension of the
empire--the Roman world--with its component parts, its organisation and administration. The
date is approximately anno Domini 64, although it is not desirable, even if it were possible,
to adhere in every detail to the facts of that particular year. In A.D. 64 the Emperor Nero
was at the height of his folly and tyranny, and, so far as our information goes, the Apostle
Paul was journeying about the Roman world in the interval between his first and second imprisonments
in the capital.

One cannot, perhaps, achieve a wholly satisfying picture in a treatise of the present dimensions.
It would require a very bulky volume to realise with any adequateness the ideal aim. It would
be well if, in the first instance, we could imagine ourselves standing somewhere far aloft
over the centre of the empire, and possessing as wide-ranging a vision as that of the Homeric
gods. From that exalted standpoint we might gaze upon the active life of towns, upon the labourers
working their lands from the Atlantic to the Euphrates, and upon the men who go down to the
sea in ships and do their business in great waters. We should perceive their occupations and
amusements, their material surroundings, their various dress and manners, their methods of
travel, the degree of their personal safety and liberty. Then we should descend to earth in
the middle of Rome itself, and become for the time being inhabitants of that city, privileged
to take part in its public business and its public pleasures, to enter the houses of what may
be called its representative citizens, to share in the various elements of its social day,
and to estimate the moral, intellectual, and artistic cultivation of Roman society.

Such would be the ideal. Here it must suffice, to select the most essential or interesting
matters, and to present them with such vividness as the necessary brevity will permit. Very
little preliminary knowledge will be taken for granted; the use of Latin or technical terms
will be shunned, and every topic will be dealt with, as far as possible, in the plainest of
English.

Nevertheless, while aiming at entire lucidity, the following chapters will aim even more scrupulously
at telling the truth. There are doubtless a number of matters--though generally of relatively
small moment--about which we are, and probably always shall be, uncertain. The best way to
deal with these, in a work which is descriptive rather than argumentative, is to omit them.
For the rest it must be expected of any one whose professional concern it has been to saturate
himself for many years in the literature of the times, and to study carefully their monumental
remains, that he should occasionally make some statement, drop some passing remark or judgment,
which may appear to be in conflict with assertions made in other quarters. If a few examples
are met with in the present book, they may be taken as made with all deference, but with deliberation.

It is perhaps well to say this with some emphasis, in view of the blunders often innocently
committed by those who happen to be speaking of this period. There are those who know it almost
only through the medium of the Acts of the Apostles, and who entertain the most erroneous notions
concerning Gallio or Festus, concerning Roman justice, Roman taxation, or Roman moral and religious
attitudes. There are those, again, who know it almost only through the manuals of history;
that is to say, they know the dates and facts of the reigns of the emperors, but have never
realised, not to say visualised, the contemporary Roman as a human being. There exist denunciations
of the morals of the Roman world of this date which would lead one to believe that every man
was a Nero and every woman a Messalina: denunciations so lurid that, if they were a third part
true, the continuance of the Roman Empire, or even of the Roman race, for a single century
would be simply incomprehensible. On the other hand there have been accounts of the material
glory of Rome which have conjured up visions of splendour worthy only of the Arabian Nights;
and sometimes the comment is added that it was all won from the blood and sweat heartlessly
wrung from a world of miserable slaves. It is not too much to say that none of these descriptions
could come from a writer or speaker who knew the period at first hand.

The most dangerous form of falsehood is that which contains some portion of truth. The life
of many a Roman was deplorably dissolute; the splendour of Rome was beyond doubt astonishing;
of oppression there were too many scattered instances; but we do not judge the civilisation
of the British Empire by the choicest scandals of London, nor the good sense of the United
States by the freak follies of New York. We do not take it that the modern satirist who vents
his spleen on an individual or a class is describing each and all of his contemporaries, nor
even that what he says is necessarily true of such individual or class. Nor is the professional
moralist himself immune from jaundice or from the disease of exaggeration.

The endeavour here will be to realise more veraciously what life in the Roman world was like.
For those who are familiar with the political history and the escapades of Nero there may be
some filling in of gaps and adjusting of perspective. For those who are familiar with the journeyings
and experiences of St. Paul there may be some correction of errors and misconceptions. For
those who have any thought of visiting the ruins of Rome and Pompeii, it may prove helpful
to have secured some comprehension of this period. Pompeii was destroyed only fifteen years
after our date, and all those houses, large and small, were occupied in the year 64 by their
unsuspecting inhabitants. Meanwhile mansions, temples, and halls stood in splendour above those
platforms and foundations over which we tread amid the broken columns in the Roman Forum or
on the Palatine Hill.

CHAPTER I

EXTENT AND SECURITY OF THE EMPIRE

The best means of realising the extent of the Roman Empire in or about the year 64 is to glance
at the map. It will be found to reach from the Atlantic Ocean to the Euphrates, from the middle
of England--approximately the river Trent--to the south of Egypt, from the Rhine and the Danube
to the Desert of Sahara. The Mediterranean Sea is a Roman lake, and there is not a spot upon
its shores which is not under Roman rule. In round numbers the empire is three thousand miles
in length and two thousand in breadth. Its population, which, at least in the western parts,
was much thinner then than it is over the same area at present, cannot be calculated with any
accuracy, but an estimate of one hundred millions would perhaps be not very far from the mark.

Beyond its borders--sometimes too dangerously near to them and apt to overstep them--lay various
peoples concerning whom Roman knowledge was for the most part incomplete and indefinite. Within
its own boundaries the Roman government carefully collected every kind of information. Such
precision was indispensable for the carrying out of those Roman principles of administration
which will be described later. But of the nations or tribes beyond the frontiers only so much
was known as had been gathered from a number of more or less futile campaigns, from occasional
embassies sent to Rome by such peoples, from the writings of a few venturous travellers bent
on exploration, from slaves who had been acquired by war or purchase, or from traders such
as those who made their way to the Baltic in quest of amber, or to Arabia, Ethiopia, and India
in quest of precious metals, jewels, ivory, perfumes, and fabrics.

There had indeed been sundry attempts to annex still more of the world. Roman armies had crossed
the Rhine and had twice fought their way to the Elbe; but it became apparent to the shrewd
Augustus and Tiberius that the country could not be held, and the Rhine was for the present
accepted as the most natural and practical frontier. In the East the attempts permanently to
annex Armenia, or a portion of Parthia, had so far proved but nominal or almost entirely vain.

On the Upper Euphrates at this date there was a sort of acknowledgment of vague dependence
on Rome, but the empire had acquired nothing more solid. Forty years before our date a Roman
expedition had penetrated into South-west Arabia, of which the wealth was extravagantly over-estimated,
but it had met with complete failure. Into Ethiopia a punitive campaign had been made against
Queen Candace, and a loose suzerainty was claimed over her kingdom, but the Roman frontier
still stopped short at Elephantine. Over the territories of the semi-Greek semi-Scythian settlements
to the north of the Black Sea Rome exercised a protectorate, which was for obvious reasons
not unwelcome to those concerned. Along or near the eastern frontier she well understood the
policy of the "buffer state," and, within her own borders in those parts, was ready to make
tools of petty kings, whose own ambitions would both assist her against external foes and relieve
her of administrative trouble.

At no time did the Roman Empire possess so natural or scientific a frontier as at this, when
it was bounded by the Rhine, the Danube, the Black Sea, the Euphrates, the Desert, and the
Atlantic. The only exception, it will be perceived, was in Britain, but the Roman idea there
also was to annex the whole island, a feat which was never accomplished. Two generations after
our chosen date Rome had conquered as far as the Firths of Clyde and Forth; it had crossed
the Southern Rhine, and annexed the south-west corner of Germany, approximately from Cologne
to Ratisbon; it had passed the Danube, and secured and settled Dacia, which is roughly the
modern Roumania; and it had pushed its power somewhat further into the East. But it had not
thereby increased either its strength or its stability.

At the period then with which we are to deal, the Roman Empire included the countries now known
as Holland, Belgium, France, Spain and Portugal, Switzerland, Italy, the southern half of the
Austrian Empire, Greece, Turkey, Asia Minor, Syria and Palestine, Egypt, Tripoli and Tunis,
Algeria, Morocco, and also the southern two-thirds of England. Within these borders there prevailed
that greatest blessing of the Roman rule, the pax Romana, or "Roman peace." Whatever defects
may be found in the Roman administration, on whatever abstract grounds the existence of such
an empire may be impugned, it cannot be questioned that for at least two centuries the whole
of this vast region enjoyed a general reign of peace and security such as it never knew before
and has never known since. That peace meant also social and industrial prosperity and development.
It meant an immense increase in settled population and in manufactures, and an immense advance--particularly
in the West--in civilised manners and intellectual interests.

Peoples and tribes which had been at perpetual war among themselves or with some neighbour
were reduced to quietude. Communities which had been liable to sudden invasion and to all manner
of arbitrary changes in their conditions of life, in their burdens of taxation, and even in
their personal freedom, now knew exactly where they stood, and, for the most part, perceived
that they stood in a much more tolerable and a distinctly more assured position than before.
If there must sometimes be it would be the Roman tyrant, and he, as we shall find, affected
them but little. All irresponsible local tyrannies, whether of kings or parties, were abolished.

On the high seas within the empire you might voyage with no fear whatever of pirates. If you
looked for pirates you must look beyond the Roman sphere to the Indian Ocean. There might also
be a few to be found in the Black Sea. On the high road you might travel from Jerusalem to
Rome, and from Rome to Cologne or Cadiz, with no fear of any enemy except such banditti and
footpads as the central or local government could not always manage to put down. On the whole
there was nearly everywhere a clear recognition of the advantages conferred by the empire.

It is quite true that during these two centuries we meet with frequent trouble on the borders
and with one or two local revolts of more or less strength. At our chosen date the Jews were
being stirred by their fanatical or "zealot" party into an almost hopeless insurrection; within
two years the rebellion broke out. Three years later still, certain ambitious semi-Romans took
advantage of a troubled time to make a determined but futile effort to form a Gaulish or German-Gaulish
empire of their own. Half a century after Nero the Jews once again rose, but were speedily
suppressed. But apart from these abortive efforts--made, one by a unique form of religious
zeal, one by adventurous ambition, at opposite extremities of the Roman world--there was established
a general, and in most cases a willing, acceptance of the situation and a proper recognition
of its benefits.

The only serious war to be feared within the empire itself was a civil war, begun by some aspiring
leader when his chance seemed strong of ousting the existing emperor or of succeeding to his
throne. Four years from the date at which we have placed ourselves such a war actually did
break out. Nero was driven from the throne in favour of Galba, and the history of the year
following is the history of Otho murdering Galba, Vitellius overthrowing Otho, and Vespasian
in his turn overthrowing Vitellius. Yet all this is but the story of one entirely exceptional
year, the famous "year of four emperors." Take out that year from the imperial history; count
a hundred years before and more than a hundred years after, and it would be impossible to find
in the history of the world any period at which peace, and probably contentment, was so widely
and continuously spread. Think of all the countries which have just been enumerated as lying
within the Roman border; then imagine that, with the exception of one year of general commotion,
two or three provincial and local revolts, and occasional irruptions and retaliations upon
the frontier, they have all been free from war and its havoc ever since the year 1700. In our
year of grace 64, although the throne is occupied by a vicious emperor suffering from megalomania
and enormous self-conceit, the empire is in full enjoyment of its pax Romana.

Another glance at the map will show how secure this internal peace was felt to be. The Roman
armies will be found almost entirely upon the frontiers. It was, of course, imperative that
there should be strong forces in such positions--in Britain carrying out the annexation; on
the Rhine and Danube defending against huge-bodied, restless Germans and their congeners; on
the Euphrates to keep off the nimble and dashing Parthian horse and foot; in Upper Egypt to
guard against the raids of "Fuzzy-Wuzzy "; in the interior of Tunis or Algeria to keep the
nomad Berber tribes in hand. In such places were the Roman legions and their auxiliary troops
regularly kept under the eagles, for there lay their natural work, and there do we find them
quartered generation after generation.

It is, of course, true that they might be employed inwards as well as outwards; but it must
be manifest that, if there had been any widespread disaffection, any reasonable suspicion that
serious revolts might happen, there would have been many other large bodies of troops posted
in garrison throughout the length and breadth of the provinces. In point of fact the whole
Roman military force can scarcely have amounted to more than 320,000 men, while the navy consisted
of two small fleets of galleys, one regularly posted at Misenum at the entrance to the Bay
of Naples, the other at Ravenna on the Adriatic. To these we may add a flotilla of boats operating
on the Lower Rhine and the neighbouring coasts. Except during the year of civil war the two
fleets have practically no history. They enjoyed the advantage of having almost nothing to
fight against. If pirates had become dangerous--as for a brief time they threatened to do during
the Jewish revolt--the imperial ships would have been in readiness to suppress them. They could
be made useful for carrying despatches and imperial persons or troops, or they might be used
against a seaside town if necessary. Beyond this they hardly correspond to our modern navies.
There was no foreign competition to build against, and no "two-power standard" to be maintained.

The Roman troops, it has already been said, were almost wholly on the frontier. So far as there
are exceptions, they explain themselves. It was found necessary at all times to keep at least
one legion regularly quartered in Northern Spain, where the mountaineers were inclined to be
predatory, and where they were skilful, as they have always been, at carrying on guerilla warfare.
We may, if we choose, regard this comparatively small army as policing a lawless district.
In but few other places do we find a regular military force. Rome itself had both a garrison
and also a large body of Imperial Guards. The garrison, consisting of some 6000 men, was in
barracks inside the city, and its purpose was to protect the wealth of the metropolis and the
seat of government from any sudden riot or factious tumult. It must be remembered that among
the Romans it was soldiers who served as police, whether at Rome or in the provinces. The Imperial
Guards, consisting of 12,000 troops, were stationed just outside the gates, in order to secure
the safety and position of the emperor himself, if any attempt should be made against his person
or authority. The rich and important town of Lugdunum (or Lyons) had a small garrison of 1200
men, and a certain number of troops were always to be found in garrison in those great towns
where factious disturbances were either probable or possible. Thus at Alexandria, where the
Jews were fanatical and at loggerheads with the Greeks, and where the native Egyptians were
no less fanatical and might be at loggerheads with both, it was necessary to keep a disciplinary
force in readiness. Somewhat similar was the case at Antioch, where the discords of the Greeks,
Syrians, and Jews stood in need of the firm Roman hand. Nor could a similar regiment be spared
from Jerusalem. The western towns were generally smaller in size, more homogeneous, and more
tranquil. It was around the Levant that the popular émeute was most to be feared. Doubtless
one may meet, whether in the New Testament or in Roman and Greek writers, with frequent mention
of soldiers, and we make acquaintance with an occasional centurion--something socially above
a colour-sergeant and below a captain--or other officer in various parts of the empire. But
it should be understood that, except in such places as those which have been named, soldiers
were distributed in small handfuls, to act as gendarmerie, to deal with brigands, to serve
as bodyguard and orderlies to a governor, to bear despatches, to be custodians of state prisoners.
To these classes belong the centurions of the Acts of the Apostles, while Lysias was the colonel
of the regiment keeping order in Jerusalem.

What the Roman army was like, whence it was recruited, how it was armed, and what were its
operations, are matters to be shown in a later chapter. Regarded then as a controlling agent,
maintaining widespread peace, the Roman Empire answers closely to the British raj in India.
The analogy could indeed be pressed very much further and with more closeness of detail, but
this is scarcely the place for such a discussion.

CHAPTER II

TRAVEL WITHIN THE EMPIRE

Of the administration in Rome and throughout the provinces enough will be said in the proper
place. Meanwhile we may look briefly at one or two questions of interest which will presumably
suggest themselves at this stage. Since all this vast region now formed one empire, since Roman
magistrates and officers were sent to all parts of it, since trade and intercourse were vigorous
between all its provinces, it will be natural to ask, for example, by what means the traveller
got from place to place, at what rate of progress, and with what degree of safety and comfort.

In setting forth by land you would elect, if possible, to proceed by one of the great military
roads for which the Roman world was so deservedly famous. Not only were they the best kept
and the safest; they were also generally the shortest. As far as possible the Roman road went
straight from point to point. It did not circumvent a practicable hill, nor, where necessary,
did it shrink from cutting through a rock, say to the depth of sixty feet or so. It did not
avoid a river, but bridged it with a solid structure such as often remains in use till this
day. If it met with a marsh, wooden piles were driven in and the road-bed laid upon them. When
it came to a deep narrow valley it built a viaduct on arches.

The road so laid was meant for permanence. A width of ground was carefully prepared, trenches
were dug at the sides, three different layers of road material were deposited, with sufficient
upward curve to throw off the water, and then the whole was paved with closely-fitting many-cornered
blocks of stone. In the chief instances there were sidewalks covered with some kind of gravel.
The width was not great, but might be anything between ten and fifteen feet. Along such roads
the Roman armies marched to their camps, along them the government despatches were carried
by the imperial post, and along them were the most conveniently situated and commodious houses
of accommodation. For their construction a special grant might be made by the Roman treasury--the
cost being comparatively small, since the work, when not performed by the soldiers, was done
by convicts and public slaves--and for their upkeep a rate was apparently levied by the local
corporations. Besides the paved roads there was, needless to say, always a number of smaller
roads, many of them mere strips of four feet or so in width; there were also short-cuts, by-paths,
and ill-kept tracks of local and more or less fortuitous creation.

Beside the great highways stood milestones in the shape of short pillars, and generally there
were in existence charts or itineraries, sometimes pictured, giving all necessary directions
as to the turnings, distances, stopping-places, and inns, and even as to the sights worth seeing
on the way. Wherever there were such objects of interest--in Egypt, Syria, Greece, or any other
region of art, history, and legend--the traveller could always find a professional guide, whose
information was probably about as reliable as that of the modern cicerone. In Rome itself there
was displayed, in one of the public arcades, a plan of the empire, with notes explaining the
dimensions and distances.

The vehicle employed by the traveller would depend upon circumstances. You would meet the poor
man riding on an ass, or plodding on foot with his garments well girt; the better provided
on a mule; a finer person or an official on a horse; the more luxurious or easy-going either
in some form of carriage or borne in a litter very similar to the oriental palanquin. To carriages,
which were of several kinds--two-wheeled, four-wheeled, heavy and light--it may be necessary
to make further reference; here it is sufficient to observe that, in order to assist quick
travelling, there existed individuals or companies who let out a light form of gig, in which
the traveller rode behind a couple of mules or active Gaulish ponies as far as the next important
stopping-place, where he could find another jobmaster, or keeper of livery-stables, to send
him on further. The rich man, travelling, as he necessarily would, with a train of servants
and with full appliances for his comfort, would journey in a coach, painted and gilded, cushioned
and curtained, drawn by a team showily caparisoned with rich harness and coloured cloths. This
must have presented an appearance somewhat similar to that of the extravagantly decorated travelling-coach
of the fourteenth century. The ordinary man of modest means would be satisfied with his mule
or horse, and with his one or two slaves to attend him. On the less frequented stretches of
road, where there was no proper accommodation for the night, his slaves would unpack the luggage
and bring out a plain meal of wine, bread, cheese, and fruits. They would then lay a sort of
bedding on the ground and cover it with a rug or blanket. The rich folk might bring their tents
or have a bunk made up in their coaches.

Where there was some sort of lodging for man and horse the average wayfarer would make the
best of it. In the better parts of the empire and in the larger places of resort there were
houses corresponding in some measure to the old coaching-inns of the eighteenth century; in
the East there were the well-known caravanserais; but for the most part the ancient hostelries
must have afforded but undesirable quarters. They were neither select nor clean. You journeyed
along till you came to a building half wine-shop and store, half lodging-house. Outside you
might be told by an inscription and a sign that it was the "Cock" Inn, or the "Eagle," or the
"Elephant," and that there was "good accommodation." Its keeper might either be its proprietor,
or merely a slave or other tenant put into it by the owner of a neighbouring estate and country-seat.
Your horses or mules would be put up--with a reasonable suspicion on your part that the poor
beasts would be cheated in the matter of their fodder--and you would be shown into a room which
you might or might not have to share with someone else. In any case you would have to share
it with the fleas, if not with worse.

Perhaps you base brought your food with you, perhaps you send out a slave to purchase it, perhaps
you obtain it from the innkeeper. That is your own affair. For the rest you must be prepared
to bear with very promiscuous and sometimes unsavoury company, and to possess neither too nice
a nose nor too delicate a sense of propriety. Your only consolation is that the charges are
low, and that if anything is stolen from you the landlord is legally responsible.

Doubtless there were better and worse establishments of this kind. There must have been some
tolerably good quarters at Rome or Alexandria, and at some of the resorts for pleasure and
health, such as Balae on the Bay of Naples, or Canopus at the Nile mouth. It is true also that
for those who travelled on imperial service there were special lodgings kept up at the public
expense at certain stations along the great roads. Nevertheless it may reasonably be asked
why, in view of the generally accepted standards of domestic comfort and even luxury of the
time--what may be called middle-class standards--there was no sufficiency of even creditable
hotels. The answer is that in antiquity the class of people who in modern times support such
hotels seldom felt the need of their equivalent. In the first place, they commonly trusted
to the hospitality of individuals to whom they were personally or officially known, or to whom
they carried private or official introductions. If they were distinguished persons, they were
readily received, whether in town or country, on their route. In less frequented districts
they trusted to their own slaves and to the resources of their own baggage. Their own tents,
bedding, provisions and cooking apparatus were carried with them. If they made a stay of any
length in a town, they might hire a suite of rooms.

We must not dwell too long upon this topic. Suffice it that travel was frequent and extensive,
whether for military and political business, for commerce, or for pleasure. Some roads, particularly
that "Queen of Roads," the Appian Way--the same by which St. Paul came from Puteoli to Rome--must
have presented a lively appearance, especially near the metropolis. Perhaps on none of these
great highways anywhere near an important Roman city could you go far without meeting a merchant
with his slaves and his bales; a keen-eyed pedlar--probably a Jew--carrying his pack; a troupe
of actors or tumblers; a body of gladiators being taken to fight in the amphitheatre or market-place
of some provincial town; an unemployed philosopher gazing sternly over his long beard; a regiment
of foot-soldiers or a squadron of cavalry on the move; a horseman scouring along with a despatch
of the emperor or the senate; a casual traveller coming at a lively trot in his hired gig;
a couple of ladies carefully protecting their complexions from sun and dust as they rode in
a kind of covered wagonette; a pair of scarlet-clad outriders preceding a gorgeous but rumbling
coach, in which a Roman noble or plutocrat is idly lounging, reading, dictating to his shorthand
amanuensis, or playing dice with a friend; a dashing youth driving his own chariot in professional
style to the disgust of the sober-minded; a languid matron lolling in a litter carried by six
tall, bright-liveried Cappadocians; a peasant on his way to town with his waggon-load of produce
and cruelly belabouring his mule. If you are very fortunate you may meet Nero himself on one
of his imperial progresses. If so, you had better stand aside and wait. It will take him a
long time to pass; or, if this is one of his more serious undertakings, there will be a thousand
carriages, many of them resplendent with gold and silver ornament in relief upon the woodwork,
and drawn by horses or mules whose bridles are gleaming with gold. And, if the beautiful and
conscienceless Poppaea is with him, there may be a Procession of some five hundred asses, whose
it is to supply her with the milk in which she bathes for the preservation of her admirable
velvety skin.

There are, of course, many other individuals and types to be met with. If you happen to be
traversing certain parts of Spain, the mountains of Greece, the southern provinces of Asia
Minor, or the upper parts of Egypt, you will perhaps also meet with a bandit, or even with
a band of them. In that case, prepare for the worst. Some of the gang have been caught and
crucified: you may have passed the crosses upon your way. This does not render the rest more
amiable. St. Paul takes it as natural to be thus "in peril of robbers." Perhaps certain regions
of Italy itself were as dangerous as any. We have more than one account of a traveller who
was last seen at such-and-such a place, and was never heard of again. It is therefore well,
before undertaking a journey through suspected parts, to ascertain whether any one else is
going that way. There is sure to be either an official with a military escort or some other
traveller with a retinue; at least there will be some trusty man bearing letters, or some sturdy
fellow whom you can hire expressly to accompany you.

After allowing for this occasional embarrassment--which was certainly not greater and almost
certainly very much less than you would have encountered in the same parts of the world a century
ago--it must be declared that, on the whole, travel by land in the Roman world of the year
64 was remarkably safe. If it was not very expeditious, it was probably on the average quite
as much so as in the eighteenth century.

Ordinary travelling by road may not have averaged more than sixty or seventy miles a day, although
hundred miles could be done without much difficulty, while a courier on urgent business could
greatly increase that speed.

Next let us suppose that our friend proposes to travel by sea. As a rule navigation takes place
only between the beginning of March and the middle of November, ships being kept snug in harbour
during the winter months. The traveller may be sailing from Alexandria to the capital or from
Rome to Cadiz or to Rhodes. If a trader of sufficient boldness, he may even be proceeding outside
the empire as far as India. If so, he will pass up the Nile as far as Coptos, then take either
the canal or the caravan route to Myos Hormos on the Red Sea, and thence find ship for India,
with a reasonable prospect--if he escapes the Arab pirates--of completing his business and
returning home in about six months. Over 120 ships, small and great, leave the above-mentioned
harbour each year on the voyage to India, for Alexandria is the great depot for the trade round
the Indian Ocean, and the products of India are in lively demand at Rome.

On such a remote course, however, we will not follow. Let us rather suppose that our traveller
is proceeding from Alexandria, the second city of the empire, to Rome, which is the first.
In this case he may enjoy the great advantage of going on board one those merchantmen belonging
to the imperial service, which sail regularly with a freight of corn to feed the empire city.
His port of landing will be Puteoli (Puzzuoli) in the Bay of Naples, which was then the Liverpool
of Italy. The rest of the journey he will either make by the Appian Road, or, less naturally,
by smaller freight-ship, putting in at Ostia, the port of Rome recently constructed by the
Emperor Claudius at the mouth of the river Tiber. His ship, a well-manned and strongly-built
vessel of from 500 tons up to 1100 or more, will carry one large mainsail, formed of strips
of canvas strengthened by leather at their joinings, a smaller foresail, and a still smaller
topsail. It will be steered by a pair of huge paddles on either side of the stern. There will
be a crow's-nest on the mast, and at the bows a rehead of Rome or Alexandria or of some deity,
perhaps of Castor and Pollux combined. A tolerable, but by no means a liberal, amount of cabin
accommodation will be provided. A good-sized ship might reach 200 feet in length by 50 in breadth.
One of them brought to Rome the great obelisk which now stands in the Piazza of St. Peter's;
another ship had brought another obelisk, 400,000 bushels of wheat and other cargo, and a very
large number of passengers. At a favourable season, and with a quite favourable wind, the ship
may expect to reach the Bay of Naples in as little as eight or nine days: sometimes it will
take ten days, sometimes as many as twelve. The ship may either proceed directly south of Crete,
or it may run across to Myra in Asia Minor, or to Rhodes, and thence proceed due west. As a
rule the ancient navigator preferred to keep somewhat near the shore. Other ships, picking
up and putting down cargo and passengers as they went along, would pass up the Syrian coast,
calling at Caesarea, Tyre, Sidon, and other places before passing either north or south of
Cyprus. From such a ship it might be necessary--as it was with St. Paul and the soldiers to
whose care he was committed--to tranship into another vessel proceeding directly to Italy.
If, as we have imagined, the traveller is on a cornship of the Alexandria-Puteoli line, he
will reach the Bay one day after passing the straits of Messina, and his vessel will sail proudly
up to port without striking her topsail, the only kind of ship which was permitted to do this
being such imperial liners.

There were other famous trade routes of the period. One is from Corinth; another from the Graeco-Scythian
city at the mouth of the Sea of Azov, whence corn and salted fish were sent in abundance; a
third from Cadiz, outside the straits of Gibraltar, by which were brought the wool and other
produce of Andalusia; a fourth from Tarragona across to Ostia, the regular route for official
and passenger intercourse with Spain. Yet another took you to Carthage in three days. Across
the Adriatic from Brindisi you would reach in one day either Corfu or the Albanian coast at
Dyrrhachium (Durazzo), where began the great highroad to the East. Given a fair wind, your
ship might average 125 or 130 miles in the twenty-four hours, and, if you left Rome on Monday
morning, you had a reasonable prospect of landing in Spain on the following Saturday. From
Cadiz you would probably require ten or eleven days. There was, it is true, no need to come
by sea from that town. There was a good road all the way, with a milestone at every Roman mile,
or about 1600 yards. Unfortunately that route would generally take you nearly a month.

It is not probable that sea travelling was at all comfortable; but it was apparently quite
as much so, and quite as rapid, as it was on the average a century ago. Ships were made strong
and sound; nevertheless shipwrecks were very frequent, as they always have been in sailing
days. Wreckers who showed false lights were not unknown. There is also little doubt that the
vessels were often terribly overcrowded; one ship, it is said, brought no less than 1200 passengers
from Alexandria. That on which St. Paul was wrecked had 276 souls on board, and one upon which
Josephus once found himself had as many as 600. It is incidentally stated in Tacitus that a
body of troops, who had been both sent to Alexandria and brought back thence by sea, were greatly
debilitated in mind and body by that experience. On the other hand, as has been already stated,
there was generally no such thing as a pirate to be heard of in all the waters of the Mediterranean.

CHAPTER III

A BRIEF SURVEY OF THE PROVINCES

After thus considering, however incompletely, the manner in which the people of the Roman world
contrived to move about within the empire itself, we may proceed to glance at the constituent
parts of the world in which they thus travelled to and fro.

And first we must draw a distinction of the highest importance between the western and eastern
halves. Naturally enough, Italy itself was before all others the land of the Romans. It was
the favoured land, enjoyed the fullest privileges, and was the most completely romanized in
population, manners, and sentiment. Besides its larger and smaller romanized towns--of which
there were about 1200--it was dotted from end to end with the country-seats and pleasure resorts
of Romans. North and west of Italy were various peoples, differing widely in character, habits,
and religion, as well as in physique. East of it were various other peoples differing also
from each other in such respects, but for the most part marked by a common civilisation in
which the West had but an almost inconsiderable share. Before the Roman conquest the nations
and tribes of the West had been in general rude, unlettered, and unorganised. Except here and
there in Spain, where the Phoenicians or Carthaginians had been at work, and in the Greek colonies
sprung from Marseilles, they had hardly possessed such a thing as a town. They scarcely knew
what was meant by civic life, with its material luxuries and graces, its art and literature.
They were commonly small peoples without unity, brave fighters, but, in all those matters commonly
classed as civilisation, distinctly behind the times. The superiority of the Roman in these
parts was not merely one of organised strength, military skill, and political method, it was
a superiority also of intellectual life and culture. In Spain, Gaul, Britain, Switzerland,
the Tyrol and southern Austria, and also in North-West Africa, the Roman proceeded to organise
after his own heart, to settle his colonies, to impose his language, and to inculcate his ideals.
He was dealing with inferiors; this he fully recognised, and so for the most part did they.

Meanwhile to the eastward also Rome spread her conquests. Here, however, she was dealing with
peoples who had already passed under influences in many respects superior to those brought
by the conqueror, influences which were in a sense only beginning to educate the conqueror
himself. Let us here, for the sake of clearness, make a brief digression into previous history.

Throughout the eastern half of the Mediterranean countries, conquering Rome had been face to
face with an older, a more polished, a more keenly intellectual, and more artistic culture
than her own. This was the civilisation of Greece. We need not dwell upon the character of
Hellenic culture. Anyone who has made acquaintance with the richness of Greek literature, the
clear sureness of Greek art, the keen insight of Greek science and philosophy, and the bold
experiments of Greek society--especially as represented by Athens--will understand at once
what is meant. When the Romans, more than two hundred years before our date, conquered Greece,
in so far as they were a people of letters or of effort in abstract thought, in so far as they
possessed the arts of sculpture, architecture, painting, and music, they were almost wholly
indebted to Greece. Their own strength lay in solidity and gravity of character, in a strong
sense of national and personal discipline, in the gift of law-making and law-obeying. In culture
they stood to the Greeks of that time very much as the Germans of two centuries ago stood to
the French. After their conquest by the Romans the Greeks perforce submitted to the rule of
might, but the typical Greek never looked upon the Roman as socially or intellectually his
equal. He became himself the philosophic, artistic, and social teacher of his conqueror. His
own language was richer in literature, and it was better adapted to every form of conversation.
The Latin of the Romans therefore made no progress in Greece or the Greek world. It might be
made the language of the Roman courts and of official documents; but beyond this the ordinary
Greek disdained to study it. On the other hand the ordinary well-educated Roman could generally
speak Greek. Magistrates and officials were almost invariably thus accomplished, and in Athens
or Ephesus they talked Greek as we should naturally talk French in Paris--only better, inasmuch
as they learned the language in a more rational and practical way. Nero himself could act,
or thought he could act, a Greek play and sing a Greek ode among the Greeks. Most probably
the Roman noble had been brought up by a Greek nurse, just as so many English families formerly
employed a nurse imported from France. Nor did the Greeks merely ignore the Latin language.
They refused to be romanized in any other respect. Even the Roman amusements tended to disgust
them, and it is to the credit of his superior refinement that the average Greek was repelled
by those brutal exhibitions of gladiatorial bloodshed and slaughter over which the coarser
Roman gloated.

When, next, we pass from Greece proper--that is to say, from the Grecian peninsula and the
islands and Asiatic shores of the Aegean Sea--into Asia Minor, Syria, and Egypt, we still find
the Roman conqueror annexing peoples more versed in the higher arts of life than himself. For
ages there had existed in these regions various forms of advanced civilisation. The Assyrian,
Babylonian, Phoenician, Hebrew, and Egyptian cultures were old before Rome was born. Later
the Persian subjugated all these peoples. And then, four hundred years before the time with
which we are dealing, had come the Macedonian Greek Alexander the Great, and had conquered
every one of those provinces which were subsequently to form the eastern part of the Roman
Empire as represented on our map. The language and culture of Alexander were Greek, and he
carried these and settled them with the most determined policy in every available quarter.
After his death his empire broke up into kingdoms, but those kings who succeeded him--every
Antiochus of Syria and every Ptolemy of Egypt--were Greek. Their court was Greek, and Hellenism
was everywhere the fashion in life, thought, letters, and art. All round the coasts, in all
the great cities, on all the main routes, up all the great river valleys of these eastern kingdoms,
this graecizing proceeded. Alexander had founded the city of Alexandria, and soon that great
and opulent city became more the home of Greek science and literature than Athens itself. His
successors founded other great cities, such as Antioch, and there also the civilisation was Greek.

Egyptians, Jews, and Syrians who were possessed of any kind of public, social, or even mercantile
ambition therefore naturally spoke Greek, either only, or more often in conjunction with their
native tongue. This is the reason why the Septuagint appeared in Greek; why Greek as well as
Hebrew and Latin was written over the Cross; why our New Testament was written in Greek; and
why Paul could travel about the eastern half of the Roman world and talk fluently wherever
he went. He could address a Roman governor directly at Paphos because that governor had learned
Greek at Rome, either in school or under his nurse or tutor. He could stand before the Areopagus
at Athens and address that distinguished body in its own tongue because it was also one of
his own tongues.

Not that one could expect the Greek culture, or even the language, to remain pure when thus
spread abroad. There were blendings of Oriental elements, Egyptian, Jewish, or Syrian; but
these elements were themselves derived from advanced and time-honoured civilisations.

It follows, therefore, that all through the Eastern half of its domain Rome could not contrive
to romanize. She did not attempt to suppress Greek ideas; she preferred to utilise them. So
long as the Roman rule was obeyed in its essentials, Rome was satisfied.

In the main, then, we have, outside Italy, two very distinct halves of the Roman world: the
Eastern, with its large cities, its active civic life, its high culture, its contributions
to science, art, and luxury--and, it must be added, its general dissoluteness--with here and
there its pronounced leanings to Oriental fanaticism; and the Western, with very few large
towns, with a life more determined by clans and tribes or country districts, with comparatively
little social culture, contributing almost nothing to art or science, stronger in its contribution
of natural products and virile men than in those of the more refined or artificial luxury.
Over this half the Roman tongue, Roman dress, and Roman manners spread rapidly. In it Roman
settlers made themselves more at home. The aim of the better classes of the natives was to
render themselves as Roman as possible. It is in the western part of the empire that you will
find the names which mark systematic Roman settlement and which often denote the work of an
emperor. Towns such as Saragossa (Caesarea Augusta), Aosta, Augsburg, Autun (Augustodunum),
and Augst are foundations of Augustus. Hence the fact that Spain and Prance speak a Latin tongue
at this day, while no Latin was ever even temporarily the recognised language between the southern
Adriatic and the Euphrates.

This prime division made, let us now pass quickly round the empire, making such brief observations
as may appear most helpful as we go.

In the year 64 the south of Spain, the province of Baetica--of which we may speak more familiarly
as Andalusia--was prosperous and peaceful, almost completely romanized and latinized. Many
of its inhabitants were true Latins, most had made themselves indistinguishable from Latins.
Along the river Guadalquivir there were flourishing towns, chief among them being those now
known as Seville and Cordova. The whole region was one of rich pasture and tillage, and from
it the merchant ships from Cadiz brought to Rome cargoes of the finest wool and of excellent
olives and other fruits. The east of Spain, with Tarragona for its capital, stood next in order
for its settled life and steady produce, including wine, salt fish and sauces, while in the
interior the finest steel--corresponding to the Bilbao blades of more modern history--was tempered
in the cold streams of the hills above the sources of the Tagus. From Portugal came cochineal
and olives. In several parts of the peninsula--in Portugal, in the Asturias, and near Cartagena--were
mines of gold and silver, which had been worked by the old Phoenicians and which the Romans
had reopened. The chief trouble of Spain, it may be interesting to learn, was the rabbits,
and against these there were no guns and no poison, but only dogs, traps, and ferrets. In Gaul
there is one province long-established and fully romanized, with its capital at Narbonne, and
with flourishing Roman towns, which are now familiar under such names as Aries and Nîmes. This
is a region over the coast of which the culture of Greece had managed to stray, centuries before,
through the accident of a Greek colony having been founded at Marseilles. In this province
a Roman might live and feel that he was still as good as in Italy. But beyond lay what was
known as "Long-haired" Gaul, sometimes "Trousered" Gaul, so called from the distinguishing
externals of its inhabitants, who wore breeches, let their hair grow long, and on their faces
grew only a moustache--three things which no Roman did, and from which, even in these districts,
the nobles, who were the first to romanize, were beginning to desist.

The peoples of these Gaulish provinces preferred, like all early Celtic communities, to give
their adherence only to clans or tribes, and to unite no further than impulse or expediency
dictated, forming no towns larger than a village, living for the most part in poor huts scattered
through forests, hills, marshes, and pasture land, and content to sleep on straw, if only they
could wear a fine plaid and boast of a gold ornament. The names of many such tribes still remain
in the names of the towns which grew up from the chief village of each canton. Such were the
Ambiani, who have given us Amiens, and the Remi, who have given us Rheims. Paris and Trèves
denote the administrative villages of the Parisii and Treveri. Nevertheless the country had
its corn-lands and was rich in minerals and cattle, from which the hides came regularly down
the Rhone to be carried to the Mediterranean markets. "Long-haired" Gaul was at this date rude
and superstitious, with that weird druidical religion which the Emperor Claudius had done his
best to suppress. Its chief vice was that of drunkenness. As with the French, who have largely
descended from them, the proverbial passions of the Gauls were for war and for the art of speaking;
but at our date the former passion was decaying and the latter gaining ground. The Gaulish
provinces united at a point on the Rhone, near which necessarily arose the largest city of
that part of the world, namely, Lugdunum, or Lyons, which speedily became not only a seat of
administration but a noted school of eloquence.

Of Britain there is as yet little to say. For the last twenty years the Romans had done their
best to conquer the Celtic tribes, who suffered, as Celtic tribes were always apt to suffer,
from their own disunion. They had now reached the Trent--or rather a line from Chester to Lincoln--had
just punished Boudicca (or Boadicea) for her vigorous effort at retaliation and her slaughter
of 70,000 Romans or adherents of Rome, and were following the true Roman practice of securing
what they had won by building military roads and establishing strong posts of control, as at
Colchester, Chester, and Caerleon-on-Usk. Some amount of iron-working was being done in Britain,
but its chief exports were, as they had long been, tin, salt, and hides. The British themselves
had no towns. The places so called were nothing more than collections of huts, surrounded by
rampart and ditch, in some easily defensible spot amid wood or marsh.

Along the Rhine it is enough to note that the Germans were being kept in hand. South of the
Danube the region now known as Styria and Carinthia was rich in iron, and both here and all
along the mountainous tract of the Tyrol and neighbourhood Rome was steadily pushing her language
and habits by means of settlement, trading, and military occupation. It may be remarked by
the way that at this date there were in use practically all the Alpine passes now familiar
to us--the Mont Genèvre, the Little and Great St. Bernard, the Simplon, the St. Gothard, and
the Brenner.

The Upper Balkans were necessarily under military occupation, but Macedonia was a flourishing
graecized province with Thessalonica--the modern Salonika--for its capital. Greece proper,
known officially as Achaia, had declined in every respect since the classical age of Athens.
The monuments of that city were, indeed, as sumptuous as ever; a number had been added in Roman
times, though generally in inferior taste. Athens was still a sort of university, but its professors
were for the most part sophists or rhetoricians, beating over again the old straws of philosophies
which had once possessed a living meaning and exercised a living force. Athens herself had
never properly recovered from the migration of learning to Alexandria. Delphi, the great oracular
seat of the Greek world, had also declined in importance, although it could still boast of
an imposing array of buildings and memorials. The centre of commerce and of official life,
a Roman colony in the midst of Greece, a cosmopolitan and a dissolute place, was Corinth on
the Isthmus. Here Nero had intended to cut a canal through from sea to sea--he had turned the
first sod with his own hand--but his personal extravagance caused an insufficiency of funds,
and the project met with the fate of the first enterprise at Panama. It was, therefore, still
necessary for a traveller proceeding to the East to cross the Isthmus and reship at Cenchreae.
The rest of Greece was almost all poor and sparsely populated, and many ancient sites and monuments
were already suffering from neglect and dropping into ruin.

Across the Aegean, Asia Minor was in a condition of unprecedented prosperity. It contained
no less than five hundred towns of considerable repute, chief among them being Smyrna and Ephesus,
with their handsome public buildings, open squares, theatres, gardens, and promenades. Smyrna
in particular boasted of its wide marble-paved streets crossing each other at right angles,
and provided with arcades running along their sides. Its one defect was the want of proper
sewers. Among the sights of the world was the huge temple at Ephesus, dedicated to Artemis,
the "Great Diana" of the Acts of the Apostles. This temple, the largest in the ancient world,
was 425 feet long, 220 wide, and its columns were 60 feet in height and numbered 127.

South-east of the Aegean was situated the opulent Rhodes, the handsomest and strongest port
in the Mediterranean, provided with fine harbour buildings, a seat of learning, and so full
of art that it contained no less than 3000 statues. In the somewhat desolate interior of Asia
Minor were spacious runs for sheep and horses, but wheat also was grown, and the country could
at least produce tall and sturdy slaves. In northern Galatia the common people had not yet
forgotten the Celtic tongue which they had brought from Gaul over three centuries ago. In the
south-east, opposite Cyprus, lay Tarsus, the birthplace of Paul, a city which combined the
art of manufacturing goats' hair into tent-cloth with the pursuit of what may be called a university
instruction in philosophy, science, and letters. In both these local avocations the apostle
employed his youth to good purpose. Across the water Cyprus produced the copper which still
bears its name.

Of Syria, rich in corn and fruits, the chief city--the third in the empire--was Antioch, a
town splendidly laid out upon the Orontes in a strikingly modern fashion. A broad street with
colonnades extended in a straight line through and beyond the city for four miles, and was
crossed by others at right angles. This street is said to have been lighted at nights, while
the Roman streets remained dark and dangerous. In the neighbourhood of the city was the celebrated
park called Daphne, where the voluptuous and almost incredible dissipation of the ancient world
perhaps reached its acme. Like Alexandria, Antioch was furiously addicted to horseracing.

Further down the coast Sidon produced its famous glass, and Tyre its famous purple dye. Inland
from these lay the handsome city of Damascus, famed for its gardens and for its work in fine
linen. Still farther south was Hierosolyma, or Jerusalem, of which it is perhaps not necessary
here to give details. Its population was reckoned at a quarter of a million.

On the coast of Egypt, after you had caught sight, some thirty miles away, of the first glint
from the huge marble lighthouse standing 400 feet high upon the island of Pharos, you arrived
at Alexandria, the second city of the Roman world and the great emporium for the trade of Egypt,
of all Eastern Africa as far as Zanzibar, and of India. From it came the papyrus paper, delicate
glass-work, muslin, embroidered cloths, and such additions to luxury as roses out of season.
Alexandria, built like Antioch on a rectangular plan, with its chief streets 100 feet in width,
contained a Jewish quarter, controlled by a Jewish headman and a Sanhedrin; an Egyptian quarter;
and a Greek quarter, in which were the splendid buildings of the Library with its 600,000 volumes,
and the University, devoted to all branches of learning and science--including medicine--and
provided with botanical and zoological gardens. Here also were the temple of Caesar and the
fine harbour buildings. Its population, exceedingly money-loving and pleasure-loving, and comprising
representatives of every Oriental people, may have numbered three-quarters of a million. The
circuit of the city was about thirteen miles, and its chief street some four miles in length.

Behind it lay Egypt, with its irrigation and traffic canals kept in good order; with its monuments
in far better preservation than now--the pyramids, for example, being still coated with their
smooth marble sides, and not to be mounted by the present steps, from which the marble has
been torn; with its rich corn-lands, its convict mines and quarries, the Siberia of antiquity;
with its string of towns along the Nile and its seven or, eight millions of inhabitants--mostly
speaking Coptic--and full of strange superstitions and peculiar worship of animals.

Coming westward we reach the prosperous Cyrene, and then, by the rather out-of-the-world Bight
of Tripoli, Africa proper, where once ruled mighty Carthage, the colony of Tyre, and where
the Phoenician or Punic language still survived among the population of mixed Phoenicians and
Berbers. Here, too, are wide and luxuriant stretches of corn-land, upon which Rome depends
only next, if next, to those of Alexandria. Further west are the Berber tribes of Mauretania,
governed by Rome but hardly yet fully assimilated into the Roman system.

In the Mediterranean Sea lie Crete, a place which had now become of little importance; Sicily,
as much Greek as Roman, fertile in crops and possessed of many a splendid Greek temple and
theatre; Sardinia, an unhealthy island infested by banditti, and employed as a sort of convict
station, producing some amount of grain and minerals; and Corsica, which bore much the same
character for savagery as it did in times comparatively recent, and which had little reputation
for any product but its second-rate honey and its wax. The Balearic Islands were chiefly noted
for their excellence in the art of slinging for painters' earth, and for breeding snails for
the Roman table.

It remains to say that the feeling of local pride was very strong in the rival towns of the
empire. Each gloried in its distinguishing commerce and natural advantages, and the chosen
emblems of the greater cities set forth their boasts with much artistic ingenuity. Thus Antioch
is symbolised by a female figure seated on a rock, crowned with a turreted diadem, and holding
in her hand a bunch of ears of corn, while her foot is planted on the shoulder of a half-buried
figure representing the river Orontes. Alexandria, with her Horn of Plenty, her Egyptian fruits,
and the representations of her elephants, asps, and panthers, as well as of her special deities,
appears in relief upon a silver vessel found at Boscoreale near Pompeii and here reproduced.

Such in brief was the Roman Empire. How all this empire was governed, what was meant by emperor,
governor, taxation, and justice, is matter for other chapters.

CHAPTER IV

THE IMPERIAL SYSTEM: EMPEROR, SENATE, KNIGHTS, AND PEOPLE

We have seen, and succinctly traversed, the extent of the Roman world. The next step is to
consider, as tersely as possible, its system of government and administration about the year
64. This task is not only entirely necessary to our immediate purpose; it is also one of great
interest and profit in itself. If we are either to see in their proper light the experiences
of such a man as St. Paul, or to understand the long continuance of so wide an empire, we must
observe carefully the principles and methods adopted by the Romans as rulers.

We speak fluently of the "Roman Emperor" and of the "reign of Nero." What was an emperor? What
were his powers, and how did he exercise them?

In the first place, it must be noted that, strictly speaking, Rome acknowledged no such thing
as an autocrat. It had no monarch; the title "king" was disowned by the Caesars and entirely
denied by the people; the emperor was technically not a superior sovereign, but, on the contrary,
something inferior to a sovereign. He was the first citizen, the "first man of the state."
The state was nominally a commonwealth, and the emperor its most important officer.

He was, to begin with, the representative of Rome as civil and military governor of all provinces
containing an army, or apparently calling for an army. "Emperor" means military commander,
and he was the commander-in-chief of all the forces of the empire, military or naval, but in
a sense far more liberal than would now be intended by such an expression. Of all the fighting
forces he had absolute control, determining their numbers, their service, all appointments,
their pay, and their discharge. He moved them where he chose, and, beyond this, he possessed
the power of declaring war and concluding peace. Wherever there existed an armed force, whether
in the far-off field or in garrison, its obedience was due to him. In sign of this every soldier,
on the first of January and on the anniversary of the emperor's accession, took a solemn oath--and
an oath in those days was felt as no mere matter of form, but as a solemn act of religion--that
he would loyally obey the commander-in-chief. The emperor's effigy was conspicuous in the middle
of every camp, and, in small, it figured on the standard of every regiment. The sacred obligation
of the soldier to an Augustus or a Nero was kept perpetually in evidence, and he was never
allowed to forget it. Wherever the emperor appeared or intervened in the provinces, all other
powers became subordinate to his.

Theoretically such a commander might always be deposed by the Roman people, acting through
its Senate. In reality he was master of the situation. If he was ever deposed, or if a new
commander was ever appointed, it was by the army. If he proved a tyrant, there was no other
means of getting rid of him than by the army, unless it were by assassination. At such times
the Senate might make a show of naming the successor, and the army might make a show of agreeing
with the Senate, but such expressions, as Tacitus repeats, were "empty and meaningless words."
The madman Caligula had been assassinated. When, four years after our date, Nero was compelled
to flee from his palace and was persuaded into committing suicide, it was because the soldiers
had declared against him and had elected another.

The vast powers of the emperor had come into the hands of one man simply because the republic
had been found incompetent to handle its empire, whether from a military or a financial point
of view. It managed neither so consistently nor so honestly as did the individual.

The emperor, then, by a constitutional fiction, was an officer of the commonwealth, commanding
its forces, not only with the freedom of action which Rome had always allowed to its experts
in dealing with the enemy, but with that freedom greatly enlarged, and with a tenure of the
office perpetually renewed.

But to him that hath shall be given--especially if he is in a position to insist on the gift.
The emperor's military authority, his position as governor of provinces, could not alone rightfully
qualify him to control Rome itself, with its laws, its magistrates, its domestic and provincial
policy. Theoretically the Roman emperor never did control these matters.

In practice he did with them very much as he chose. If he seriously wished a certain course
to be followed, a certain law to be passed or abolished, even a certain man to be elected to
an office, it was promptly done. But how could he thus perpetually interfere and yet appear
to remain a constitutional officer? Not through the mere obsequiousness of every one concerned,
including the Senate. That would be too transparent, clumsy, and invidious. It was necessary
that he should possess some adequate appearance of real authority, and he was therefore ingeniously
invested with that authority. It was thus. There were under the commonwealth certain annual
officers of wide and rather indefinite powers called "tribunes of the commons." These persons
could veto any measure which they declared to be in opposition to the interests of the people.
They could also summon the Senate, and bring proposals before it. Meanwhile their persons were
"sacrosanct," or inviolable, during their term of office. Here lay the opportunity. The emperor
was invested by the Senate with these "powers of the tribune." He was not actually elected
a tribune, for the office was only annual and could not be held along with any other, whereas
the emperor must have the prerogatives always, and in conjunction with any other functions
which he might choose to hold. He, therefore, only received the corresponding "powers" and
privileges. This position enabled him to veto a measure whenever he chose, and with impunity.
Naturally therefore it became the custom, as far as possible, to find out his wishes beforehand,
and to move accordingly. He could also, in the same right, summon the Senate and bring measures,
or get them brought, before it. To make certainty doubly certain, he was granted the right
to what we should call "the first business on the notice-paper."

Observe further the shrewdness of the first emperor, Augustus, when he selected this particular
position. The "tribunes of the commons" were constitutionally popular champions; they represented
the interests of the common people. By assuming a position similar to theirs, the emperor--or
commander-in-chief--made it appear to the common people that he was their chief and perpetual
representative, and that their interests were bound up with his authority. He took them under
his wing, and saw, among other things, that they did not starve or go stinted of amusements.
He saw to it that they had corn for their bread, plenty of water, and games in the circus.
His "bread and games" kept them quiet.

Supported by the army on one side, with his person secure, enjoying the right of initiative
and the right of veto, this officer of the "commonwealth" became indeed the Colossus who bestrode
the Roman world. He was invariably made also the Pontifex Maximus, or chief guardian of the
religious interests of Rome. He might in addition receive other constitutional appointments--for
example, that of supervisor or corrector of morals--whenever these might suit a special purpose.
What more could a man desire, if he was satisfied to forego the name of autocrat so long as
he possessed the substance? It was quite as much to the purpose to be called Princeps, or "head
of the state," as to be called a king, like the Parthian or other Oriental monarchs. Among
the Romans, therefore, "Princeps" was his regular title. The Graeco-Oriental half of the empire,
which had long been accustomed to kings and to treating them almost as gods, frankly styled
this head of the state "king" or "autocrat," but no true Roman would forget himself so far
as to lapse into this vulgar truth.

One other title, however, the Romans did attach to their "Princeps." Something was still wanting
to bring home, to both the Roman and the provincial, the peculiarly exalted position of so
great a man; something which should be a recognition of that majesty which made him almost
divine, at least with the divinity that doth hedge a king. The title selected for this purpose
was Augustus, a word for which there is no nearer English equivalent than "His Highness," or
perhaps "His Majesty," if we imagine that term applied to one who, by a legal fiction, is not
a king. The insane Caligula called himself, or let himself be called, "Lord and Master," and
later Domitian temporarily added to this title "God," but even Nero claimed neither of these
modest epithets.

Here, then, is the position of Nero: Commander-in-chief of all the forces of Rome by land and
sea, and master of its foreign policy; the titular protector of its commons and therefore inviolable
of person and virtual controller of laws and resolutions; official head of the state religion;
rejoicer in the style of "His Highness the Head of the State." To speak ill of him, or to do
anything derogatory to his authority, was lèse majesté.

Reference has several times been made to the Senate. It is time now to speak briefly of that
body. For the sake of clearness, however, we must include a survey of the recognised constituent
elements or "orders" of Roman society.

The body politic consisted nominally of all who where known as "Roman citizens." These included
men of every rank, from the artisan, the agricultural labourer, or even the idle loafer--of
whom there was more than plenty--up through every grade of the middle classes to the richest
and bluest-blooded aristocrat who considered himself in point of birth more than the equal
of the emperor. Any such citizen was secured in person and property by the Roman laws. It was
a punishable act for the local authorities at Philippi to take Paul, a "Roman citizen," and,
before he was condemned, chastise him with rods.

According to the letter of the constitution, the power of electing all officers of state, and
of passing laws, had belonged to this miscellaneous body, the "people," gathered in assembly.
Meanwhile the power of determining foreign policy and controlling the finances had lain with
a special body, consisting largely of the aristocracy and of ex-officers of state, known as
the "Senate." We are not here concerned with the causes of the changes which buried this constitution
out of sight, but only with the actual state of things in the year 64.

In point of fact there were, under the emperors, no longer any assemblies of the "people";
the people at large neither elected nor legislated. The chief articles of the constitution
had fallen into complete abeyance during the troublous times which preceded the establishment
of that poorly disguised monarchy which we know as the empire. All real power of electing and
law-making came to be in the hands of the Senate, acting with the emperor. While the emperor
dominated the Senate, he was nevertheless glad to fall back upon that body in justification
of his own actions and as a means of keeping up the constitutional pretence. He permitted the
Senate to pass resolutions, and to exercise authority, just so far as there was no conflict
with his own pronounced wishes and interests. It was not his policy to interfere and irritate
when there was no occasion. On the other hand, when he desired a piece of legislation or an
important administrative novelty, he preferred that it should be backed up by the sanction,
or promoted by the apparently spontaneous action, of the Senate. It then bore a better appearance,
and was less open to cavil. The people are no longer consulted at all in such matters. They
have no say in them, for they have neither plebiscite nor representative government.

It must not be supposed that there never was friction between emperor and Senate. The Senate
was often--or rather generally--servile, because it was intimidated. But there were times when
it was inclined to assert itself; some of its members occasionally allowed themselves a certain
freedom of speech, toward which one emperor might be surprisingly lenient or good-naturedly
contemptuous, and another outrageously vindictive. In the year 64 the Senate was outwardly
docile enough, although at heart it was anything but loyal to his Highness Nero the Head of
the State. It must always be remembered that among the Senate were included many of the highest-born,
proudest, and strictest of the Roman nobles or men of eminence. To them the whole succession
of emperors was still a series of upstarts--the family of the Caesars--usurping powers which
properly belonged to the Senate. You could not expect these persons, aristocrats at heart,
and many of them true patriots, bearing names distinguished throughout Roman history, to acquiesce
in the spectacle of one who was no better than they, as he passed up to his huge palace on
the Palatine Hill, escorted by his guards, or as he entered the Senate-House to give what were
practically his orders, perhaps scarcely deigning to recognise men whose families had been
illustrious while his was obscure. At times a member here or there was calculating his own
chances of supplanting the man who galled him by condescension, or coldness, or even insult.
These aristocrats felt as the French nobles might feel with Napoleon. And on his side the emperor,
good or bad, never felt quite safe from a plot to overthrow him. On the whole these earlier
emperors were much engaged in keeping the Senate in its place, and were inclined, with quite
sufficient reason, to be jealous and suspicious of its more important members.

It was natural, therefore, that they should keep a very practical control over the composition
of that body. The situation was much as if a modern nation were ruled by a virtual autocrat
assisted by a House of Peers. The senators and their families formed a "senatorial order."
So far as the Romans had such a thing as a peerage under the empire, it is to be found in the
senatorial order. And as a title may now be either hereditary or conferred by the sovereign
as the "fount of honour," so, under the Roman emperors, the right to belong to the senatorial
order might come from birth or from the choice of the head of the state. Normally you belonged
to the "order" if you were the son of a senator; you ranked in that class of society. To belong
to the Senate itself and to take part in its debates you must then have held a certain public
office and must possess not less than £8000. The £8000 is the minimum. Most senators were rich,
and some were enormously wealthy. They are found with a capital of £3,000,000 or £4,000,000
and an income up to £150,000. As for the public office which you must first hold, you could
not even be a candidate for it unless you were already of the "order." If, when you are a senator,
there is anything serious against you, or if you become impoverished, your name may be expunged
from the list. Otherwise you remain a senator all your life, and your son in turn is of the
"order," and may pass into the Senate by the same process. If you were a popular or highly
deserving person, and from any accident had lost your property, the emperor would frequently
make up the deficiency, or your brother senators would subscribe the necessary amount.

But an emperor could meanwhile raise to the "order" anyone he chose. He could give him standing,
and so make him eligible as a candidate for that public office which was preliminary to entering
the actual Senate. Moreover, when it came to the elections to this office which served as the
indispensable stepping-stone to the Senate-House, the vacancies were limited in number, and
the emperor had the right of either nominating or recommending the candidates whom he preferred.
Needless to say, those candidates were invariably elected. It was, of course, monstrous arrogance
for Caligula to boast that he could make his horse a consul if he chose, but the taunt contained
a measure of truth.

Let us then put the case thus. Imagine that a modern senate is recruited from persons whose
names are in the Peerage and Baronetage, and that, before any scion of such a family can enter
the Senate itself, he must go through some sort of under-secretaryship, to which he must first
be elected.

But next imagine that the sovereign can raise to the rank of "peerage or baronetage" some favoured
person whose family does not yet figure in Debrett. Such a man is then entitled to put his
name on the list of candidates for the necessary under-secretaryship, and, when the sovereign
reviews that list, he marks the candidate as nominated or recommended by himself. So he passes
into the Senate.

Most emperors did this but sparingly. They made the Senate an aristocratic and wealthy body,
keeping its numbers at somewhere near 600. We must not be perpetually assuming that the Caesars
were either reckless or unscrupulous, because two or three were of that character. Many of
them were remarkably capable and sagacious men. They recognised the need of ability and high
character in their Senate. They had themselves enough of the old Roman exclusiveness to keep
their honours from being made too cheap, and the probability is that under their rule the Senate
was quite as honourable and quite as able a body as it was at any time under the republic.

The feeling of noblesse oblige was strongly implanted in this senatorial class. The wealth
of most members also put them above the more sordid temptations. The senator was not permitted
to undertake any mercantile or financial business. The ancient notion still survived, that
the only really honourable occupations for money were war and agriculture. The senator might
own land and dispose of its produce or receive its rents, but he could not, for instance, be
a money-lender or tax-farmer. Sometimes, no doubt, a senator evaded these provisions by employing
a "dummy," but we must not probe too deep under the surface. In compensation for this disability
it was from the senatorial class that were drawn all the governors of the important provinces,
except Egypt, and all the higher military officers. In these capacities they received salaries.
The governor of Africa, for example, was paid £10,000 a year.

Such men were no mere inexperienced aristocrats or plutocrats. They had regularly passed through
a military training in youth, and had then held a minor civil appointment, commonly involving
some knowledge of public finance. Next they had passed into the Senate and taken part in its
business; had then held other public offices which taught them practical administration and
probably legal procedure; and had afterwards been put in command of a "legion," that is to
say, a brigade or corps d'armée. After performing such functions with credit, a senator might
be sent to govern Syria or Macedonia or Britain or some other province. He was then a man of
varied experience and ripe judgment, trained in official discipline and etiquette, as well
as in knowledge. This was the kind of man whom Paul met in Cyprus in the person of the governor
Sergius Paulus, or at Corinth in the person of Gallio.

Certain smaller provinces might be administered by men of another order, who were neither filled
with the senatorial traditions nor had passed through the senatorial career. These were but
"factors" or "agents" of Caesar, and among them were the Pontius Pilate, Felix, and Festus,
who were administrators of Judaea in New Testament times.

Next in rank to the senatorial order stood that of the "Knights." If the senators represent,
in a certain sense, the peerage and baronetage, the next order represents--also in a certain
sense.--the knightage. Generally speaking, it comprehended what we should call the upper middle
classes, and particularly those concerned in the higher walks of finance; such persons as,
with us, would be the directors or managers of great companies and banks. It also included
persons whom the head of the state chose to honour with something less than senatorial standing.
Many of these men were extremely wealthy, but the minimum property qualification stood at only
£3200, and Roman citizens who possessed that amount were rather apt to pose as knights, and
to be commonly spoken of as such by a kind of courtesy title, although their names could not
be found upon the authorised rolls. Though several emperors did their best to stop this practice,
the endeavour was for the most part fruitless. Once in England the "esquires" were a class
with certain recognised claims, but nothing could stop the polite tendency to add "Esq." to
the name of a person on a private letter. The case was somewhat similar at Rome, although the
practice did not proceed quite so far.

Nevertheless there was a distinct and official roll of "Roman knights," whom the head of the
state had honoured with a public present of "the gold ring," a ceremony corresponding to the
royal sword-stroke of modern times. This body, mounted on horses nominally presented by the
public, and riding in procession through the streets, was reviewed and revised every year.
Their roll was called, and if a name was omitted from its proper place, it meant--without explanation
necessary--that by the pleasure of the emperor the person in question had ceased to be a knight.
Every member of the already-mentioned higher or senatorial order was by right a knight until
he actually became a senator, from which time he ceased to enjoy the privileges of a knight
because he was enjoying those of the higher order rank. For there were privileges as well as
disabilities in each case. As a senator could govern large provinces and command armies, but
could not engage in purely financial business; so the knight could--and almost alone did--conduct
the large financial enterprises of the Roman world, but could not command armies nor hold any
of the great public offices or higher provincial appointments, except the governorship of Egypt.
Relatively to the senators the emperor was technically only "first among equals"; he was the
first senator, as well as the first man of the state. At this date a senator would hold a truly
public office, civil or military, with or under this "superior equal," but he would not act
as his personal agent or assistant. The Roman aristocrat had not yet learned to serve in that
capacity, still less on the "household" staff of the autocrat. There were as yet no highly
placed Romans serving as Lord High Chamberlain, much less as Private Secretary. The "knights"
stood in a different position. They were prepared to be the emperor's personal agents, just
as they were prepared to be the agents of any one else, if sufficiently remunerated. They would
take his personal orders, whether in managing his estates, collecting his provincial revenues,
or relieving him of some routine portion of his own official labour.

It follows that it was often more lucrative to be a knight than a senator, and a number of
senators were not unwilling to give up their rank, for the same reasons which induce a modern
peer to serve on companies or a peeress to open a shop. On the other hand many a knight would
have declined to become a senator, at least until he had sufficiently feathered his nest. The
inducement to become or remain a senator was the social rank, the honour and dignity, with
their outward insignia and the deference paid to them, the front seat, and the reception at
court. In these the wives also shared, and at Rome the influence of the wife could not be disregarded.

If you met a senator, or a person of senatorial rank, in the street, you would know him for
such by the broad band of purple which ran down the front, and probably also down the back,
of his tunic, and by the silver or ivory crescent which he wore upon his black shoes. His wife,
it is perhaps needless to say made even more show of what is called the "broad stripe." If
you met a knight, you would perceive his standing by his two narrow stripes of purple appearing
upon the same part of his dress. Each would wear a gold ring; but that in itself would prove
nothing, since, despite all attempts at prohibiting the custom, every Roman who could afford
a gold ring permitted himself that luxury.

If you entered one of the large semicircular theatres, which are to be described in due course,
you would find that the men wearing the broad stripe seated themselves in the chairs which
stood upon the level in front of the stage, while those wearing the narrow stripes would occupy
the first fourteen tiers of seats rising just behind them. No one else might, occupy those
places. If some one who had been improperly posing as a knight, or who had been degraded from
his rank because he had wasted his credit and his money and no longer possessed either £3200
or a reputation, ventured to seat himself in the fourteen rows in the hope of being unnoticed,
he would be speedily called upon by the usher to withdraw. Snobs occasionally made the attempt,
and, at a somewhat later date, we have an amusing epigram of Martial concerning one who repeatedly
but unsuccessfully dodged the usher and who was at last compelled to kneel in the gangway opposite
the end of the fourteenth row, where it might look to those behind as if he were sitting among
the knights, while technically he could claim that he was not sitting at all.

Elsewhere also, as for instance at the chariot-races in the Circus, and at the gladiatorial
shows in the amphitheatre, there were special places set apart for the two orders.

Below the senators and the knights came the "people,"--the "commons," or "third estate"--with
all its usual grades and its usual variety of occupation or no occupation, of manners and character
or absence of both. With the life of these, as with the life of a noble, we shall deal at the
proper time.

So much for the Roman citizen proper. Other elements of the population were the foreigners.
At Rome these were exceedingly numerous, and the city may in this respect be called--as indeed
it was called--a microcosm, a small copy or epitome of the Roman world. Gauls, Africans, Greeks,
Jews, Syrians, and Egyptians were perhaps the most commonly to be seen, but particularly prominent
were the Greeks and the Jews. The Greeks were recognised above all as the clever men, the artists,
the social entertainers, and the literary guides. The Jews, who formed a sort of colony in
what is now known as Trastevere--the low-lying quarter across the Tiber--were not yet the princes
of high finance. As yet they were chiefly the hucksters and petty traders, notorious for their
strange habits and for the fanaticism of their religion, which nevertheless exercised a strange
potency and made many proselytes even in high places, especially among the women. Poppaea,
the wife of Nero himself, is commonly considered to have been such a proselyte, although the
strange notion that she herself was a Jewess is without any sort of foundation. It is a common
error to suppose that the Jews came to Rome only after the destruction of Jerusalem. The dispersion
had occurred long before Rome had anything to do with Judaea, and naturally the enterprising
Jew was to be found in all profitable places, whether in Alexandria, Antioch, Smyrna, Corinth,
Rome, or farther afield.

In the political sense all these foreigners belonged to their own provinces and communities.
They might be citizens there, but they were not citizens at Rome. At Rome they had no public
claims and no official career, unless--as not seldom happened--they received, for some service
or some distinction, the gift of the Roman citizenship. Sometimes the citizenship was given
wholesale to a town, or even to a province. How the Hebrew father or grandfather of St. Paul
became a Roman citizen, we do not know. Their own abilities or the emperor's favour might carry
such citizens, or their children, up all the steps which were open to the ordinary Roman.

After the foreigners come the slaves. At Rome itself they formed about one-third of the population.
This is not the moment for any detailed account of their employment, their treatment, or their
liberation.

Suffice it for the present that the slave possessed no rights at all. He was the chattel of
his master, who possessed over him the full power of life and death, limited only by public
opinion and prudential considerations. A Roman might have at his disposal one slave or ten
thousand slaves. He could use them as he liked, kill them if he chose, and, subject to certain
limitations, set them free if he willed, provided that he did not set too many free at once.
The last restriction was especially necessary, inasmuch as a slave who was manumitted by his
master with the proper ceremonies became ipso facto a Roman citizen, but was still bound by
certain ties of loyalty to his former master. For a Roman to possess too large an attachment
of "freedmen," as they were called, might prove dangerous. The "freedman," though a citizen,
could not himself enter upon a public career; neither, in ordinary circumstances, could his
children; but in the third generation the family stood on an entire equality with any other
Roman family in that respect.

For the present it may be added that our conception of the meaning of the word "slave" must
not be that attached to its modern use. Many such slaves were men of great special or general
ability, or men of high culture, especially if Greeks, Syrians, Jews, or Egyptians. They were
frequently superior to their masters, and subsequently, as free citizens, added much to either
the refinement or the over-refinement of Roman life. Perhaps it is as well, in passing, to
point out that the later Roman people was in no small degree descended from all this aggregation
of foreigners and emancipated slaves, and that we must speak with the greatest reservation
when we describe the modern Roman as a direct descendant of the ancient stock who fought with
Hannibal and subjugated the world.

CHAPTER V

NERO THE EMPEROR

Roughly then this is the situation at the centre of government. Sumptuously housed on the Palatine
Hill--the origin of our word "palace"--is His Highness Claudius Nero, Head of the State, Commander-in-Chief
of the Forces, Empowered to act as Tribune of the People, and Head of the State Religion: in
modern times commonly called "the Emperor." Every day and night his palace is surrounded by
a regiment of the Imperial Guards, and attached to his person is a special corps for bodyguard,
and orderlies. In practice, whatever be the theory, he possesses the control of legislation
and appointments; upon him practically depends all recognised distinction of social rank. Down
below, to the side of the Forum, is the Senate-House, in which there gathers, twice each month,
and oftener if summoned, the great deliberative body which, in spite of all disturbances, civil
wars, and limitations or broadenings of its power, is the continuation of the assembly of grave
Roman fathers who first met some eight hundred years before. These men, who are of birth and
wealth and commonly of sound public training, are the nominal upholders and directors of the
commonwealth, still left to perform many functions and to administer the more peaceful provinces
in their own way--especially if they relieve the emperor of trouble--but in practice controlled
by His Highness whenever and however it suits his purpose. They and the emperor form a partnership
in authority, but the Senate is very distinctly the junior partner. They lend him advice or
sanction when he seeks it, and they sometimes act as a break on his impetuosity. It is not
well to alienate them, for they are proud; they are jointly, sometimes individually, powerful;
and their moral weight with army and public is not to be despised.

Thus stands the central government, while socially there follows the order of the Knights,
depending for their rank upon the emperor, and in many cases serving in his employ. Below these
the populace, of whose rights and liberties the emperor is an official champion to whom theoretically
any Roman citizen can appeal against a sentence of death or against cruel wrong. It is hard
to conceive of a stronger position for one man to hold.

When we survey this vast aggregation of various provinces, with their differences of race,
language, religion, and habits; when we remember that it was on the whole strictly, energetically,
and legally administered; it is hard--even allowing for a wise Senate and capable ministers--to
realise a man competent for the position.

Yet Augustus had been conspicuously successful, and Tiberius not less so; Claudius, despite
a certain weakness, cannot by any means be called a failure; after Nero, Vespasian and Titus
were capable enough; while Trajan deserves nothing but admiration. On the other hand Caligula,
it is true, had had more than a touch of the madman in his composition, and had believed himself
to be omnipotent and on a level with Jupiter. Nero had begun well, but had been led by vanity,
vice, and extravagance to an astounding pitch of folly and oppression. Nevertheless it must
be remarked, and it should be firmly emphasised, that what is called the tyranny of Caligula
and Nero is mainly--and in Caligula's case almost solely--a tyranny affecting the Romans themselves,
affecting the lives and property of the Roman senators and other prominent persons, and affecting
the lives and honour of their wives and daughters. The outcry against these two emperors comes
from the Romans, not from the subject peoples. At least in Caligula's case the provinces were
as peaceful and prosperous as at other times. It is true that the madman once meant to insist
on the Jews putting up his own statue in the temple at Jerusalem, but this was because his
vanity was aggrieved by their unwillingness. Under Nero the case is much the same. His tyranny
for the most part took the shape of cruelty, insult, and plunder in Rome itself. It was only
when he was becoming hopelessly in debt that he began to plunder the provinces as well as Italy
by demanding contributions of money, and in particular to seize upon Greek works of art without
paying for them. It is a mistake to think of Nero as habitually and without scruple trampling
under his blood-stained foot the rights and privileges of the provinces, or grinding from them
the last penny, or harrying, slaying, and violating throughout the empire.

There is nothing to show that, during the greater part of his reign, the provinces at large
felt any material difference between the rule of Nero and the rule of Claudius, or that they
rejoiced particularly in his fall. In many quarters he was a favourite. In the latter half
of his reign he made himself a brute beast, and often a fool, in the eyes of respectable Romans.
But it was, as still more with Caligula, rather in his immediate environment that his tyranny
was felt to be intolerable; that is to say, among the men and women who had the misfortune
to come in his way with sufficient attraction of purse or beauty to awaken his cupidity. And
these were the Romans themselves, senators and knights, not the populace, and in but a small
degree, if at all, the provincials in Spain or Greece or Palestine.

Perhaps this is the time to look for a little while at this Nero, whose name has deservedly
passed into a byword for heartless bestiality. In the year 64 he is 27 years of age, and has
been seated on the throne for ten years. Four years more are to elapse before he perishes with
the cry, "What an artist the world is losing!" In his early years his vicious propensities,
inherited from an abominable father, had been kept in check partly by his preceptor, the philosopher
Seneca, and by Burrus, the commander of the Imperial Guards, partly by his domineering and
furious-tempered mother, Agrippina, who seems to have so closely resembled the mother of Lord
Byron. But at this date he had got rid of both his tutors. Burrus was dead, probably by poison,
and Seneca was in forced retirement. The emperor had also caused his own mother to be murdered.
Poisoning, strangling, drowning, or a command--explicit or implied--to depart this life, were
his ways of shaking off any incubus upon a free indulgence of his will. His follies and vices
had revealed themselves from the first, and had gone to outrageous lengths, but now he is entirely
unhampered in exhibiting them.

Educated slightly in philosophy, but better in music and letters, he could speak, like others
of his day, Greek as well as his native Latin. His aim was to be an "artist," but if the want
of balance which too often goes with what is called the "artistic temperament" ever manifested
itself in its worst form, it was in Nero. Apart from his passion for music and verse, he developed
an early mania for horse-racing, and when he was caught talking in school--where such conversation
was forbidden--about a charioteer who had fallen out of his chariot and been dragged along
the ground, he explained that he was discussing the passage in Homer where Achilles drags the
body of Hector round the walls of Troy. In after life he carried both forms of mania to amazing
lengths. The highest form of music was then represented by singing to the harp. Nero's ambition
was no less than to compete with the champion minstrels of the world. As he remarked, "music
is not music unless it is heard," and he decided to make public appearances upon the stage
like any professional. Whenever he did so, a number of energetic youths, salaried for the purpose,
were distributed among the audience as claqueurs--the words actually used for them being perhaps
translatable as "boomers" or "rattlers." He acted parts in plays--a proceeding which would
correspond to an appearance in opera--and made a peregrination through Greece and back by way
of Naples as an exponent of the art of singing to the harp. While upon this tour, whenever
he was performing in the theatre, the doors were shut, and no one might leave the building
for any reason whatever. "Many," says the memoir-writer, "got so tired of listening and praising
that they jumped down from the wall, or pretended to be dead, so as to get carried out." Naturally
he always won the prize, and, on his side, it should be remarked that he honestly believed
he had earned it. He practised assiduously, took hard physical training, regulated his diet
for the cultivation of his voice, which was not naturally of the best, and probably became
not at all a bad amateur. His monstrous self-conceit did the rest. Besides singing to the harp,
he was prepared to perform upon the flute and the bagpipes, and to give a dance afterwards.
All this, of course, was undignified and ridiculous, but it was scarcely tyranny. Doubtless
there was sufficient suffering among the audience, but that cruelty was hardly deliberate.
In the Roman noble, whose ideal of behaviour included dignity and gravity, these public appearances
perhaps often aroused more indignation and scorn than did his sensual vices. The same contempt
was often evoked by other proceedings of a similar nature. His insatiable fondness for horse-racing,
or rather chariot-racing, induced him to appear also as a charioteer. First he practised in
his extensive private park or gardens, which were situated across the Tiber on the ground now
approximately occupied by St. Peter's and the Vatican. When he appeared at the Olympic games
driving a team of ten horses, he was thrown out of the car, and had to be lifted into it again.
Though he was eventually compelled to abandon the race, he was, of course, crowned victor all
the same. He dabbled also in painting and modelling.

We must not dwell too long upon his eccentricities. One might describe how in his earlier years
he often put on mufti and roamed the streets at night with a few choice Mohawks, broke into
shops, and insulted respectable citizens, throwing them into the drains if they resisted; how,
being unrecognized, he once received a sound thrashing from a person of the senatorial order,
and was thereafter attended on such occasions by police following at a distance. One might
describe his dicing at £3 or £4 a pip, or his banquets, at one of which he paid as much as
£30,000 for roses from Alexandria. After the great conflagration which swept over a large part
of Rome in this very year 64 he began to build his enormous Golden House, in which stood a
colossal effigy of himself 120 feet high, and in which the circuit of the colonnade made three
Roman miles. Whether he deliberately set fire to the city in order to make room for this stupendous
palace is open to doubt. It was naturally believed at the time, and, in order to divert suspicion
from himself, he turned it upon those persons for whom the Roman populace had at that moment
the greatest contempt, because, as the historian puts it, of their pestilent superstition and
of a profound suspicion that they harboured a "hatred of the human race." These were the new
sect of the Christians, and with burning Christians did Nero proceed to light up his gardens
on one famous night, as a means of placating the populace whom he had offended, but who for
the most part loved him for his misplaced generosity in the matter of "bread and sports." The
tolerant attitude of the Romans towards foreign religions will be discussed in its own place;
but the cruelty of a Nero in the year 64 can hardly be put down as properly a religious persecution
in any way typical of the Roman government.

The sensual vices of Nero are indescribable, and that word must suffice. His extravagances,
whether in lavish presents or in personal expenditure, soon rendered him bankrupt. He had no
means of paying the soldiers or meeting his own appetites. Then began, or increased, his attacks
on wealthy persons, his executions and banishments of senators and other wealthy men, and his
flimsy pretexts for all manner of confiscation. The Senate he hated and the Senate hated him.
Nevertheless, so far as the empire itself was concerned, no systematic or widespread oppression
can have been perceptible. His officers and the officers of the Senate were apparently all
the time governing and administering the law and the taxation throughout the empire in as sound
and steady a way as if an Augustus sat upon the throne.

If we wish to picture Nero to ourselves, here is his description: "He was of a fairly good
height; his skin was blotched, and his odour unpleasant; his hair was inclined to be yellow;
his face was more handsome than attractive; his eyes were grayish-blue and short-sighted; his
neck was fat; he was protuberant below the waist; his legs were very slender; his health was good."

Such was the man to whom St. Paul elected to have his case referred, when at Caesarea he exercised
his privilege as a Roman citizen and appealed to the titular protector of the commons. "Thou
hast appealed unto Caesar, and unto Caesar shalt thou go." There is indeed no great probability
that the apostle was ever brought directly before this precious emperor. We may perhaps draw
from bur inner consciousness elaborate and interesting pictures of the two men confronting
each other, but we must not forget that they will be pure imagination. The appeal of a citizen
did not imply such right to an interview, for the Caesar in such minor cases commonly delegated
his powers to other judicial authorities at Rome. Paul's object was gained if his case was
safely removed from the local influences of Judaea and the weaker policy of its governor, the
"agent of Caesar," to the capital with its broader-minded men and its superiority to small
bribes and local interference.

CHAPTER VI

ADMINISTRATION AND TAXATION OF THE EMPIRE

We are now brought to the consideration of the methods by which this huge empire was organised
and governed.

And first let us observe that the Romans--strict disciplinarians and great lawyers as they
were--never sought to impose upon the subject provinces any uniformity. They never sought,
any more than Great Britain has sought, to erect one code of law, one form of administration,
one standard of rights, one rate of taxation, one religion, and to make it equally applicable
to Spain and Britain, Greece and Africa, Gaul and Asia Minor. There were, of course, common
to all the empire certain rules essential to civilisation, certain natural laws and laws of
all nations. Murder, violence, robbery, deliberate sacrilege, and so forth were punishable
everywhere, though not necessarily by the same authority nor in the same manner. Necessarily
it was held everywhere that contracts must be fulfilled and debts paid. Beyond the fact that
Rome demanded peace and order and the essentials of civilised life, and provided machinery
to secure those ends, she troubled little about differences of local procedure and varieties
of local law, so long as the Roman rule was duly recognised and the Roman taxes duly paid.
As with Great Britain, her care was for results, not for machinery, or, as the great Roman
historian puts it, she "valued the reality of the empire, not the show."

Outside Italy there spread the provinces. These had been conquered or peacefully annexed at
various times. A number of small states had come in by perpetual alliance. Some provinces,
such as Gaul, had formerly been divided among tribes and tribal chiefs. Some, such as Greece,
had consisted of highly civilised city-communities with small territories and managing their
own affairs, although they might all alike be acknowledging the suzerainty of some powerful
prince. Some, such as Cappadocia, Syria, and Egypt, had been under their native kings. Judaea
was a peculiar example of a small theocratic state, in which the chief power lay with the priests.

Rome was too wise to meddle more than she need with existing conditions. She preferred as far
as possible to accept the existing machinery and to use it, with only necessary modifications,
as her instrument of administration. To the Sanhedrin at Jerusalem, for example, she conceded
a large criminal jurisdiction over ecclesiastical offenders, so long as that jurisdiction did
not limit the universal rights of a "Roman citizen."

When a province was conquered, all its territory became technically the property of the Roman
state. Some of it was kept as such, and mines of gold, silver, lead, iron, and salt, or quarries
of marble, granite, and gravel, were commonly annexed as state property. If it was expedient
to allot some portion of the conquered land to a Roman settlement--commonly a settlement of
veteran soldiers called a "colony"--that was done. Such a settlement meant the founding of
a town, to which was granted a certain environment of land. Those who took part in its formation
were "Roman citizens" and forfeited no rights as such. As the native people came in from the
surrounding districts to reside in it, they also, it appears, somewhat easily acquired similar
privileges. Here the Roman law existed in its entirety. A colony was almost exactly a little
Rome in respect of its system of officers and its legal procedure. Sometimes a town which had
not originally been so founded might be made a "colony" by receiving a draft of Romans, and
sometimes it was made such in sheer compliment. In the Eastern half of the empire such settlements
were comparatively rare; they were but dots upon the map, as at Corinth, Philippi, Antioch
in Pisidia, or Caesarea. In the West they were much more numerous. The south of France contained
many; a number also existed in southern Spain. So many indeed were planted in these parts that
they became, as has been already remarked, completely romanized. Farther north Cologne still
perpetuates its Roman name of Colonia. Nevertheless in the West the bulk of the land of the
provinces is far from being taken up, in the year 64, by colonies.

Apart from the lands thus appropriated, what happens to the rest of the conquered territory
which is theoretically Roman property? Generally it is handed back to its original inhabitants,
on condition that they pay rent for it, whether in money or in kind, or partly in each. Egypt
pays in kind when it sends to Rome the corn in the great merchantmen; Africa pays in kind when
it does the same; the Frisians of Holland pay in kind when they supply a certain quantity of
hides. Before the days of the Emperor Augustus there had existed for the empire in general
the abominable system of tithes, which were farmed by companies. But after him, and at our
date, for the most part the payment is by a fixed sum of money, which has been calculated upon
the basis of those tithes. In the imperial Record Office there is a register of the area of
land in a given province, and an assessment of its producing value. The amount of the land-tax
to be paid into the Roman treasury is therefore fixed. Those who read in the New Testament
that Augustus Caesar sent forth an order that "all the world--that is, the Roman world--should
be taxed" need find no difficulty in understanding what it means. "Taxed" is Old English for
assessed, as when we speak of "taxing a bill of costs." The Greek word means simply that a
register should be made. The order of Augustus was that a census should be taken throughout
the provinces; that a return should be made of population, property, trades, and all that a
reasonable government requires to know; and that payments should be determined thereby. All
the world had been "taxed" in the modern sense long before Augustus, and it has been taxed,
unfortunately without much promise of respite, ever since.

The chief revenues of Rome were derived from this land-tax; but, when combined with other taxes,
a large proportion of it was spent in the administration of the province from which it was
obtained. No error could be greater than to suppose that Roman officers simply came and carried
off all this money as booty to Rome for the pampering of its emperor and populace. Naturally
the balance which accrued for the feeding of Borne, for Roman enjoyment and Roman buildings
was very large; and doubtless this fact was bad for the morale of Rome itself and requires
considerable casuistry to defend it. But it would be a monstrous misconception to imagine that
all the "tribute paid to Caesar" was absolutely drained, by an act of sheer oppression, clean
out of the province year by year. No country can be protected, policed, and have its justice
administered without taxes, and the provincials were not paying more, and were often paying
much less, as well as paying it in a more just and rational way, than when they were being
taxed by their own kings, their own oligarchies, or their own socialistic democracies. The
Roman settlements--the colonies--unless specially exempted, had to pay the land-tax as much
as any other community. The only land which was exempt from it was Italy, and Italy paid sundry
other taxes to make up for it, at least in part. But though Italy was first and foremost in
the imperial regard, the emperor was by no means indifferent to the welfare of the provinces.
If an earthquake, a fire, or other great calamity befell a town, it was by no means rare for
the emperor to send a large sum of money in relief.

Besides the land-tax there was also a tax on persons and personal property. The tax on persons
was not precisely a poll-tax, except in places like Britain and Egypt, where it was difficult
to make proper estimates otherwise, but a tax on occupations and trades. This, if we choose,
may be put down as a crude form of income-tax, although it was not actually assessed on income.
In another sense it may be regarded as a tax on a license, assuming that we demand a license
for every kind of occupation. Italy again was exempt from this taxation also. Obviously a census,
and a regularly revised census, was necessary to carry out this system; and Rome required a
whole army of agents, just as a modern state would require one, for assessing and collecting
these dues.

The land-tax and the person-tax were the two chief sources of Roman revenue. These were regular
and direct. There were others, subject, like our own taxes, to increase or decrease according
to circumstances, but for the most part kept at very much the same standards under several
consecutive emperors. For instance there were customs duties, paid on the frontiers of the
empire and also on those of provinces or natural groups of provinces, not as part of any protective
system, since the empire is all one, but as a means of raising money from commodities. In Italy
there was a duty of 2-1/2 per cent. Luxuries from India and Arabia via Red Sea ports were specially
taxed at 25 per cent. If you sold a slave, you would pay from 2 to 4 per cent on the purchase-money.
Occasionally there was a tax on bachelors. In Italy, but not elsewhere, 5 per cent legacy duty
was paid when the recipient was not a near relative, and when the legacy was not under £1000.

Add to these revenues the rents of state pastures, state forests, and state mines. Into the
treasury came also unclaimed property and the property of certain classes of condemned criminals.

So much for the nature of the taxation. In point of government, the Romans were singularly
liberal. When a province was conquered or annexed, the Senate sent out a commission of ten
persons, who carefully considered the existing state of things, the laws and forms of administration
actually in vogue, and drew up a constitution for the province, embodying as much of these
as was possible or at all commendable; as much, in fact, as was compatible with the Roman connection.
This constitution, when sanctioned by the Senate, was binding, whatever governor might be appointed
by Rome to the province. Such a governor might interpret the law; he could not alter it.

But though a province was a unit in so far as it was under one governor, the Romans were firm
believers in strictly local administration. Their policy in this, as in conquest, was "divide
and rule." It did not suit their ends to make any large part of the empire conscious of a corporate
existence. The unit of administration was, therefore, a town and its district--a "community."
In Gaul there were about sixty such divisions, each roughly corresponding in size to a modern
French "department." Such a community had its own local council and officials, who were ultimately
responsible to the governor. So long as they performed their municipal or communal functions
correctly and honestly they were not interfered with. The chief principle upon which Rome insisted
was that their local government should be aristocratic, or rather that office should be based
on wealth. The governor, of course, stepped in when he felt it to be his duty. He was required
to suppress all secret societies or political unions. A strike of the bakers in one city of
Asia Minor was promptly put down by the governor as interfering with social order and social needs.

The communities made their own by-laws, they collected the land-tax of their own district and
handed it over to the financial representative of the Roman government. This was done by men
of their own people, often of a low class, known in the Gospels as the "publicans," who were
so commonly associated with sinners. St. Matthew had been one of the minor agents for such
collection in Galilee. Other taxes--those which were indirect--might be collected by the great
tax-farming companies of Roman "knights," who offered a lump sum for them to the government,
and made what they could out of the bargain.

One incidental consequence of this systematic division into communes was that there spread
throughout the empire a strong municipal patriotism, especially in the Greek world. This was
followed by liberal local expenditure on the part of rich provincials in beautifying their
centres with public buildings and works of art, chiefly, no doubt, given for the sake of the
local honours with which they were repaid, but given nevertheless.

Most of the towns or communities throughout the empire were in the position described. Some
communities, however, such as Thessalonica, though situated inside a province, were for some
special service in the past exempted from the interference of the governor, and were allowed
to exercise their own laws to the full, even upon Roman citizens who might happen to reside
there. These were called "free" towns. In other cases the community, having come into voluntary
alliance with Rome at an earl; date and before conquest, was still treated as an "allied" state,
and was exempted from either interference or taxation, so long as it supplied its quota of
soldiers when called upon. Such cities, however, were distinctly the exception, and most of
them in the end preferred to come directly within the Roman sphere of administration. They
often found their burdens smaller and less capricious than when they taxed themselves through
their own authorities.

       *       *       *       *       *

The function of the governor was to see that the various local bodies did their work, kept
within their rights, and paid their taxes. He also, either in person or by his deputies, administered
justice wherever the Roman laws were concerned. Where they were not concerned, he necessarily
acted as Gallio did with the Jewish charges against Paul at Corinth; he dismissed the case
as not demanding his jurisdiction. Said Gallio: "If it were a question of a misdemeanour or
a crime, I should be called upon to bear with you; but if they are questions of (mere) words
and names and of your (Jewish) law, you must see to it yourselves." When the Greeks who were
standing by proceeded to beat the chief of Paul's Jewish accusers, the governor shut his eyes
to the matter. This may have been a laxity, but it would almost appear as if Gallio liked their
behaviour.

For the purposes of justice a province was divided into "Assize Districts," and the governor
or his deputies went on circuit. In the court he sat upon a platform in his official chair
and with his lictors in attendance. The official language of the court and of its records was
of course Latin, but in the Eastern half of the empire the bench cannot always have pretended
not to understand Greek. Since it would not, however, understand Hebrew, the Jews would need
to speak through a representative who knew Latin, and this is apparently the reason for the
appearance of Tertullus against St. Paul at Caesarea. A Roman citizen--that is, a person possessed
of full Roman rights--if he either denied the jurisdiction or was in danger of being condemned
to capital punishment, might, unless he had been caught red-handed in certain heinous crimes,
appeal to Caesar and claim to be sent to Rome. Unless the governor had been expressly entrusted
with exceptional powers, or unless the case was so self-evident that he had nothing to fear
from refusing, he had no alternative but to send the appellant on to the metropolis. Arrived
there, the prisoner was taken to the guardrooms or cells in the barracks of a special prefect
who had charge of such arrivals from abroad, and his case would in due course be taken either
by the emperor himself, if it was sufficiently important, or by magistrates to whom the emperor
delegated his powers for the purpose.

Meanwhile, provincials other than full Roman citizens enjoyed no such privilege. They could
make no appeal. The governor was supreme judge, and his verdict or sentence was carried out.
In matters of doubt, whether administrative or judicial, the governor might refer to the emperor
for direction or advice, and we have at a somewhat later date a considerable collection of
letters and their replies which passed in this manner between Pliny and the Emperor Trajan.

       *       *       *       *       *

A glance at the map will show some provinces named in heavy type and some in italics. Those
in italics are the provinces to which the Senate has the right to appoint the governors, in
this case called "proconsuls." Of course His Highness the Head of the State is graciously pleased
to approve the choice of the Senate; which means that the Senate will not attempt any appointment
which the emperor would dislike. The revenues of these provinces go into a treasury controlled
by the Senate. Of those named in heavy type the emperor is himself the governor or proconsul.
Theoretically he is made governor of all these simply because they contain, or may need, armies,
and he is the commander-in-chief of those armies. But since he is at Rome, and in any case
cannot be everywhere at once, he governs all such provinces by means of his deputies, whom
he appoints for himself. They are his lieutenants, and are so called--to wit, "lieutenants
of Caesar" and "deputies of the commander." The revenues of these imperial provinces are collected
by an "agent" or "factor" of Caesar, and go into a treasury controlled by the emperor. In any
one of his provinces the emperor would be its governor, and would exercise the usual military
and civil powers of a governor. His lieutenant to each province simply acts in his place, receives
the same powers, and is the governor of that province exactly as the proconsul sent by the
Senate is governor in his. But whereas the governors in the senatorial provinces wear the garb
of peace, and are appointed, like other civil officers, for one year only, the "deputies of
Caesar," the commander-in-chief, wear the military garb, and are kept in office just so long
as their superior thinks fit. It is as if in modern times the governor of the one kind of province
made his public appearances in civilian dress, and the governor of the other kind in uniform.

The actual outcome of this system was that the provinces of the emperor were on the whole better
administered than those of the Senate. In the latter, changes were too frequent, and a governor
might sometimes strain a point to enrich himself quickly. But it must on no account be imagined
that at this date a governor could with impunity be extortionate or oppress the provincials,
as he too often did in the good old days of the republic. He was paid his salary, which might
be anything up to £10,000; his allowances and power of making requisitions, such as of salt,
wood, and hay when travelling, were strictly defined by law; any pronounced extortion, oppression,
or dishonesty laid him open to impeachment; and such a charge was tolerably certain to be brought.
Among so many governors it was inevitable that a number should have been impeached. We know
of twenty-seven instances, resulting in twenty condemnations and only seven acquittals. The
emperors at least looked sharply to their own provinces; nor would they readily tolerate any
gross irregularity in those other provinces which were nominally controlled by the Senate.
On leaving his province every governor must make out duplicate copies of his accounts, one
to be left in the province, one to be forwarded to Rome.

In the Acts of the Apostles we have mention of two governors of senatorial provinces--in other
words, two "proconsuls"--Gallio in Achaia (or Greece), and Sergius Paulus in Cyprus. It is
instructive to compare the lenient and common sense attitude of these trained Roman aristocrats
with that of the turbulent local mobs who dealt with St. Paul in Asia Minor, Judaea, or Greece.
Of the minor governors of smaller provinces--styled "agents" or "factors" of Caesar--we meet
with Pontius Pilate, Felix, and Festus.

It remains only to remark that, while the Senate's treasury, which received the revenues from
the senatorial provinces, paid the expenses of their management and also of the administration
of Italy, the emperor's treasury, which received the revenues from the other provinces, provided
for their administration, for the pay of the army, for the corn and water of Rome, for public
buildings, for the great military roads, and for the imperial post. Nevertheless the emperor
could handle all this latter money exactly as he chose, and it is upon this chest that Nero
was drawing for all his lavish prodigalities and his undeserved and wasteful bounties. Yet
even Nero was scarcely so bad as Caligula, who managed to spend £22,000,000 in less than one year.

CHAPTER VII

ROME: THE IMPERIAL CITY

In the year 64 the capital of the Roman Empire was, it is true, a large and splendid city and
an "epitome of the world," but it had not yet reached either its zenith of splendour or its
maximum, of size. Many of the largest and most sumptuous structures of which we possess the
records, and in most cases the ruins, were not yet built or even contemplated. There was no
Colosseum; there were no Baths of Trajan, Caracalla, or Diocletian. The Column of Trajan, still
soaring in the Foro Traiano, and of Marcus Aurelius, now so conspicuous in the Piazza Colonna,
are of a later date. So also are the three great triumphal arches which are still standing--those
of Titus, Severus, and Constantine. The Mausoleum of Hadrian, now stripped of its outward magnificence
of marble and sculpture, and known as the Castle of Sant' Angelo, was not built for two generations.
On the Palatine Hill the palaces of the Caesars were wide and lofty, but not more than half
so spacious and imposing as they became by the end of the following century.

Down in the Forum there stood no Basilica of Constantine; the place of several later temples
and shrines was occupied by edifices of less dignity; many columns and statues, and much ornament
of gilt or marble, were still to come. Beside and beyond the two embellished public places
which had been added to the public comfort and convenience by Julius Caesar and Augustus, and
which were known respectively as the Julian and the Augustan Forum, lay only the houses of
citizens or streets of shops. Up from the Forum towards the later Arch of Titus and the Colosseum,
the "Upper Sacred Way" ran as but a narrow road between buildings for the most part of ordinary
character, principally shops catering for luxury. It was later by two centuries and a half
that this street was converted into a broad avenue forming a worthy approach to the "hub of
the universe."

In the ruins which lie on the Palatine Hill, or along the valley of the Forum below, or up
the Sacred Slope towards the Colosseum, or across where the streets wind round from the "Roman"
Forum through the Forum of Trajan to the Corso, the modern visitor to the Eternal City does
not behold simply the remnants of the temples, halls, squares, and arches which actually existed
in the days of Nero. We must not say of these places that St. Paul trod the very paving-stones
or gazed on the very walls which we now find in their worn and broken state. In a few cases
it may be so; in most it is certainly otherwise. Either the building was not there, or what
we now behold is part of a reconstruction or an enlargement. Fire, flood, earthquake and the
wear and tear of time called for many a rebuilding or restoration. In the very year upon which
we have fixed, there swept over all this part of the city perhaps the most disastrous fire
that it ever experienced. Another only a little less destructive occurred in A.D. 283, and
when we say that the remains of the glory of ancient Rome are still visible in the excavated
Forum, we must recognise that the glory which they represent is the glory of the place as restored
after that year.

This does not mean that the general plan and appearance were markedly different under Nero,
nor that there was any lack of magnificence; it is only meant by way of caution against a frequent
misconception.

If there was no Arch of Severus in the Forum, there was an Arch of Augustus, near the Temple
of Castor, surmounted by his statue in the four-horsed chariot of the conqueror, and there
was an Arch of Tiberius near the temple of Saturn. If to the north there was as yet no bridge
or "castle" of Sant' Angelo to celebrate the dead Hadrian, there was, on the near side of the
Tiber, not far from the modern Piazza del Popolo, a splendid Mausoleum of the deified Augustus
and his family. In the chief Forum the Temples of Vesta, of Julius Caesar, of Castor, Saturn,
and Concord existed under Nero in the same spots and in much the same style as they did through
all the remainder of Roman history. Above them towered the Capitoline Hill, with its resplendent
Temple of Jupiter on the one summit and its great shrine of Juno on the other. Beyond, in the
"Field of Mars"--the site of the densest part of modern Rome--was an almost continuous cluster
of public buildings and resorts, of theatres, temples--including the first form of that incomparable
edifice, the Pantheon, the only building of ancient Rome which still remains practically whole--of
baths, porticoes, and enclosed promenades.

Away in the opposite direction stretched the Appian Way, and in the year 64 the beautiful tomb
of Caecilia Metella, which is so familiar in picture, stood as perhaps the noblest among the
multitude of patrician tombs. The Apostle Paul certainly passed close by it on his way from
Puteoli. The aqueduct, of which so many arches still meet the eye as you cross the Campagna,
was the work of Nero's predecessor, Claudius, and it still bears his name--the Aqua Claudia.
Where now you go out of the gate to St. Paul's Outside-the-Walls there stood--more free and
visible than now--that pyramid of Cestius, close to whose shadow lie the graves of the English
Shelley and Keats. There was no gate at this spot in the days of Nero, for the great wall,
of which so many portions--more or less restored--are still conspicuous, had no existence till
a much later date, when the empire was already tottering to its fall, and when Aurelian was
driven to recognise that the heart of the empire, after remaining secure for centuries, must
at last look to be assailed. There was, it is true, an inner wall of ancient date (to be seen
upon the plan) which had enclosed the "Seven Hills" before Rome was mistress of more than her
own small environment. But the city had long ago overflowed this boundary, and the newer quarters
lay as open to the country as do our own modern cities.

How far the suburbs stretched, or precisely how far Rome proper extended, in the days of Nero,
is no easy matter to decide. We shall in all probability be near the mark if we accept the
line of the later wall of Aurelian as practically the limit of what might be included in the
"Metropolitan Area." The total circumference of the whole city would be about twelve English
miles, a circuit which fell somewhat short of that of Alexandria and probably of Antioch, although
in actual importance these cities took but the second and third rank respectively.

Some parts within this line were thickly inhabited, in some the houses must have been but sparse.
Particularly along the upper slopes of the hills--of the Pincian, Quirinal, Esquiline, Caelian,
and Aventine--were the spacious houses and gardens of the wealthy. The Palatine was almost,
though not completely, monopolised by the emperors' palaces and sundry temples. The Campus
Martius was mostly a region of public buildings and grounds for promenade and exercise, although
some of the finest shops stood very close to where they stand to-day, in that Flaminian Way
which is now called the Corso of Humbert. On one side below the Palatine Hill, space was taken
up by the vast Circus or racing-ground; on the other lay the public places known as the Fora.
It was left for the poorer inhabitants to crowd themselves into the valleys of the town, either
between the Forum and the spurs of the several hills which trend towards the centre--up under
Quirinal, Viminal, Esquiline, or Caelian--to the left behind the buildings as you now go from
the bottom of the Forum to the Colosseum; or between the Forum and the Tiber in the low-lying
ground called the Velabrum and there-abouts; or else across the river in that "Transtiberine"
region which still bears the name of Trastevere.

If, therefore, it is asked what may have been the Population of Neronian Rome, it need cause
no surprise if the number should appear comparatively small to one who is accustomed to our
huge modern towns. Rome had never been a seat of manufactures. Its wealth and luxury came almost
wholly from its empire, and it was emphatically a city for the rich and ruling classes. In
Nero's day it was still growing, and even in its fullest times it is doubtful if the population
ever exceeded or even reached a million and a quarter. Perhaps for the year 64 we may most
safely put it down at about 750,000.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now suppose yourself to be standing at F in the recognised centre of Roman life, the "Roman
Forum." Here, before we begin our rapid exploration of the city, it is well to clear our minds
of one false notion which too commonly prevails. Think of any modern town you please, and remember
that, whatever may be the accumulation of architectural magnificence around any given spot,
the people of that town treat it all with familiarity and without any waste of sentiment. They
will set up their shops or stalls wherever they are allowed; they will carry on their traffic
and their amusements; they will saunter and sit on steps and misbehave without feeling oppressed
by any appreciable awe of their surroundings. So was it, and even more so, in ancient Rome.
The fact that there were shrines or public buildings on all sides did not prevent the Romans
from loitering and loafing in the Forum, from sitting on the steps of a temple or a basilica,
or leaning against its columns or statues, or playing at a sort of draughts or of backgammon
on its marble platforms--the lines to put the "men" upon are here and there still visible upon
the pavements--or even scratching a name or a drawing on a pillar. In certain parts the Forum
was alive with the bustle of financial business and, doubtless under certain limitations, with
the traffic of the pedlar. Curiosities were exhibited, the crier shouted his advertisements,
and, in short, the place was almost as freely used for the vulgar purposes of ordinary life
as for the dignified gatherings and ceremonies which to our minds appear so much more appropriate
to it. Though we are not yet dealing with the social life of Rome, whether indoor or outdoor,
it seems advisable to make this observation before proceeding.

Let us now stand at F and look about us toward the Capitol, noting only the chief features
of the scene. The reader would do well to consider the plan along with the frontispiece to
this book. We are upon an open space paved with marble slabs, round which stand sundry honorary
statues and various minor monuments into which we need not now enquire. Facing us, toward the
far end, is a platform about 80 feet long and 11 feet in height, with marble facing. A trellis-work
rail, or pierced screen, runs along it at either side, and also extends along the front for
one-third of the distance from either end. The one-third in the middle of the front is open.
This platform is approached by a flight of steps at the back, while in the sheer face are set
as ornaments rows of bronze "beaks" or "rams" cut from ships captured in war. From these "beaks"
the platform obtains its name--the Rostra. It is the platform for harangues delivered to the
Roman people--the Roman citizens who are politely assumed to be the body politic--and the open
space on the front is the position for the orator. It is from this stand that important announcements
are made to the people at large. An emperor or his nominee may speak from it; a magistrate
may deliver some pronouncement; a political exhortation may be uttered; in the case of a public
funeral, or even of the private obsequies in some eminent family, an oration over the deceased
may be spoken with that finished and animated elocution which the Romans so zealously cultivated,
and which the Italians still affect with no little success. It is not indeed the same platform
as was used by Cicero and the orators of the republic: this stood elsewhere, and doubtless
the substance of public speaking had declined deplorably since that day. Nevertheless many
a torrent of rich and sonorous Latin must have streamed over the Forum from that noble standing-place,
and it must still have been worth while for a Roman to develop both his speaking voice and
his oratorical art. Still further back, to the right behind the Rostra, there stands the Temple
of Concord, where the Senate in older times gathered on more than one occasion to listen to
Cicero, and where the emperors have formed practically a gallery of works of art; to the left
is the Temple of Saturn, long used as the Roman Treasury, of which eight pillars still remain
as perhaps the most conspicuous feature among the existing ruins. Another object in the background
to the left, at the rear of the Rostra, will be a stone pillar coated with gilded bronze, upon
which the first emperor, Augustus, inscribed the names of the great roads leading out from
Rome into the length and breadth of the empire, with a list of the chief towns to which those
roads would take you, and their distances. The name of this pillar is the "Golden Milestone."
Behind these objects, running along the high face of the Capitoline Hill, are visible the arcades
of the Record Office, of which the greater portion still exists, though stripped of its architectural
graces and built over and about in more modern times, in the state represented in FIG. 18.
Still higher on the summit to the left, with its gilded tiles glistening in the sun--at least
they were gilded within the next few years--rises the most sacred structure of all, the building
most closely identified in the Roman mind with the eternity of the empire. This is the splendid
temple of Jove, Supreme and Most Benign. Of this edifice nothing considerable except its platform
now remains, its site being occupied by an object of which the existence would have been inconceivable
to the ancient Roman--to wit, the German Embassy. On the other summit, a fortified citadel
to your right stands the temple of the consort of Jupiter. In this shrine she was known as
Juno Moneta, and since, attached to her temple in this citadel, was the office of the Roman
coinage, her name Moneta has become familiar to modern mouths in the form of "the Mint." If
you seek the place of this temple now, you must look for it under the Church of Santa Maria
in Ara Coeli.

Next, instead of looking up at the hill, glance to your left, and you will see running along
that side of the Forum, beside the Sacred Way, a spacious public building known as the Basilica
of Julius, that is to say, of Julius Caesar. It is an edifice of a type familiar in cities
of the Roman world. You mount the steps from the Sacred Way and find yourself under an outer
two-storied arcade suitable for lounging or promenading while discussing business or gossip
with your friends. Passing from this inwards you are in a building which consists of a covered
colonnade, or nave, about 270 feet in length, with a row of pillars on either hand. On each
side is a gallery, or upper floor, from which spectators may look down upon the interior, or,
from the outer side, upon the open Forum. At the far end is a recess with a raised tribunal,
shut off, if necessary, by railings. In other basilicas there may be an apse at this point,
similarly enclosed. This serves as a court of justice, round which the curious may stand, or
upon which listening spectators may gaze from the ends of the galleries above. Meanwhile up
and down the open space of the nave all kinds of verbal business may be transacted by appointment,
exactly as such business used to be carried on in old St. Paul's Cathedral in London or in
churches elsewhere. In what may be called the inner side-aisle are situated offices of various
kinds, including those of sundry public corporations, boards, or commissions. The whole of
this great hall is paved with coloured marbles; its pillars are coated with marble; its ceiling
is adorned with painting and gilt; it is embellished with statues; and it is lighted from above
by a clerestory. Though the question has been debated, it is almost certain that it was mainly
from buildings like this, or from rooms similarly constructed in palatial houses, that the
early Church developed its basilicas--with their nave, aisles, and clerestory, and with their
railed apse at the end, where was placed the chair of the bishop on its dais. Across the Forum
on the opposite side, to your right, lies another structure of the same kind, in artistic respects
more excellent. In this, the Basilica Aemilia, the chief business was that of the bankers and
money-changers, although it served various other purposes according to convenience.

If you could see round the farther end of this basilica to the right, you would perceive the
beginning of one of the busiest streets in Rome--the Argiletum--chiefly known to fame as a
favourite quarter of the booksellers, who fasten on their door-posts, or on the pillars which
support a balcony or upper floor, the lists of the newest or most popular publications to be
bought within. And where that street enters the Forum, though standing back a little from your
line of vision--perhaps you can catch sight of the top of it over the corner of the Basilica--is
the temple-like Senate-House with its offices. Here is the meeting-place of the six hundred
who nominally govern jointly with the emperor. If you visit Rome to-day you will find the greater
part of the actual chamber, though miserably despoiled, bearing the name of the church of S.
Adriano.

The little building, half arch, half shrine, which you observe standing free where the roads
converge upon the Forum, is the famous sanctuary of Janus, of which the doors are never shut
unless there is complete peace throughout the Roman world. So long as Rome is anywhere engaged
in a great or little war, the open doors of Janus tell the fact to a people which might otherwise
be unconscious of so slight or remote a circumstance.

       *       *       *       *       *

We need not describe in detail the temple of Castor, or rather of the "Twin Brethren," which
stands immediately to your left, or that of the deified Julius Caesar, which is just behind
you, on the spot where the body of the great dictator was burned. It is perhaps more interesting
to note the ordinary--though not by any means the only--form of the Roman temple in general.
Those who have seen the so-called Maison Carrée at Nimes will possess a fair notion of the
commonest or most typical shape and arrangement. For the most part we have a rather lofty platform,
mounted from one end by steps, which are flanked by walls or balustrades, often bearing at
their extremities equestrian statues or other appropriate figures. Upon the platform stands
the temple proper, consisting of a chamber containing the statue of the god. Where more than
one deity are combined in the same temple--as in that of Jupiter on the Capitoline Hill, where
the supreme deity has Juno and Minerva to left and right of him--there may either be as many
separate chambers or as many chapel-like bays as there are deities. The altar for sacrifice
stands outside opposite the entrance, being placed either upon the top of the main platform
or more commonly on a minor platform of its own in the middle of the steps. In most cases the
chamber stands back behind a row, in some instances two rows, of columns, which support the
characteristic entablature seen in the illustrations. In the case of the more grandiose temples
a series of columns may run all round the building, carrying an extension of the roof, under
which is thus formed a covered colonnade. More commonly the sides and back of the chamber have
only what are known as "engaged" columns, as it were half-embedded in the wall. The roof is
gabled and tiled, with ornaments along the eaves. The front has an embellished entablature,
with its triangle of masonry called the "pediment," consisting of a cornice overhanging a sunken
surface decorated with a sculptured group. Over each angle, right, left, and summit, is a base
of stone supporting some conspicuous ornament, such as a statue, an eagle, or a figure in a
chariot. In the middle of the front of the building, behind the columns of the portico, are
double doors, commonly made of decorated bronze, with an open grating of the same metal above
them. The whole is outwardly of marble, either all white or with colour in the pillars, but
the core of at least the platform is commonly made of the immensely strong Roman concrete,
or else of blocks of the less beautiful and costly kinds of stone.

In point of architectural style the Romans of this date--who in artistic matters were but imitators
of the Greeks and far less certain in taste than their masters--affected the Corinthian, as
being the most florid. Even this they could not leave in its native purity, but for the most
part converted it into Graeco-Roman or composite varieties. A prime fault of the Roman taste
was then, as it has always been, a love of gorgeousness, of excessive and obtrusive ornament.
In almost any Roman church of to-day we find the walls and pillars stuck about with figures,
slabs, and so-called decorations to such an extent that the finer lines and proportions are
often ruined, The ancient Roman likewise was commonly under the impression that the more decoration
you added, the more magnificent was the building. There were doubtless many buildings in simpler
and purer taste, probably executed by Greek artists under the authority of some Roman who happened
to possess a finer judgment or less self-assertiveness. Nevertheless the fault of over-elaboration
is distinctly Roman.

We must not omit to say that, besides temples of this typical rectangular form, there were
others of a round shape, encircled by columns, like that graceful structure at Tivoli commonly,
though mistakenly, known as the temple of the Sibyl, and that small building which still exists
in an impoverished condition near the Tiber, and which used to bear the erroneous title of
the temple of Vesta. Others again were simply round and domed, like the true temple of Vesta
in the Forum, or the superb and impressive Pantheon in the Campus Martius. So far as the bare
round was broken in these cases, it was either by a pillared portico, as with the Pantheon,
or by engaged columns and ornament, as with the true temple of Vesta.

The mention of the temple of Vesta reminds us that it is time to face about, and, passing behind
the temple of Julius, to look in the opposite direction, from V. Before us lies this circular
shrine, a form gradually developed from the primitive round hut which once served as house
to the prehistoric ancestors of the Roman stock. As it was the duty of the maiden daughters
of that ancient tribe to keep alight the fire upon the domestic hearth, so through all the
history of Rome it was the duty of certain chosen virgins to keep perpetually burning the hearth-fire
of the city. The roof of the temple is open in the middle, and you may perhaps see the smoke
issuing from it. But if you are a male, you may not enter. No man, except the chief Pontifex,
may set foot inside the shrine of the virgin goddess, who is attended by virgin priestesses.
Close behind the temple stands the house of these Vestals. They are in a large measure the
ancient prototype of the modern nun, and their house is the prototype of the convent. Six nobly-born
young women, sworn to chastity, and dressed in a ritual garb, live in an edifice of much magnificence
under the rule of one who is the chief Vestal, a sort of Mother Superior. Many pedestals of
the statues of such chief priestesses still remain, and we can clearly trace the arrangement
of their abode, with its open court--once containing a garden and cool cisterns of pure water--its
separate room for each Vestal, its baths, and its resources of considerable comfort and even
luxury.

If, as you face this way, you look up to your right, you will perceive the Palatine Hill rising
steeply above you, with its summit crowned by the lofty palaces and gardens constructed by
the Caesars. At the side and corner which look down upon the Forum stands the part built by
Caligula, the epileptic who thought himself no less than a god, and who in consequence not
only turned the temple of Castor into a lower vestibule to his own house, but also built a
bridge across the valley over the temple of Augustus and the Basilica of Julius to the Capitoline
Hill, so that he might visit and converse with Jupiter, his only compeer. From the top of the
Basilica he occasionally threw money into the Forum to be scrambled for by people who crushed
each other to death in the process. It would require too much space if we climbed the sloping
road which leads on to the Palatine and examined the various structures upon that hill. As
we now see it in its ruins it is perhaps the most mysteriously impressive place in the world.
But many alterations and enlargements of the palaces were made after the date of Nero, and
we cannot now be sure of the precise aspect of the hill-top in his day. Suffice it that, overlooking
the Forum, overlooking the Velabrum Valley which leads from the Forum to the Tiber, and overlooking
the middle of the valley where the vast Circus or race-ground separated the imperial hill from
the Aventine, there were portions of the huge imperial abodes, rising in several stories gleaming
with marble, and enjoying the purest air and the widest views obtainable within the city. Nero
himself, it is true, was not content with such mere human housing. After the great fire of
this year 64, he proceeded to make for himself what he called "a home fit for a man," and so
built--though he never finished--that famous or infamous "Golden House," which ran from the
Palatine all across the upper Sacred Way and the hollow now occupied by the Colosseum far on
to the opposite hills--a house of countless chambers, with three miles of colonnade, enclosed
gardens large enough to be called a park, and a statue of himself 120 feet in height. The epigram
went that the people of Rome must migrate, inasmuch as what had once been a city was now but
a private house. This, however, had not yet occurred, and we have rather to think of palaces
and gardens rich indeed, but by no means occupying the whole of the Palatine Hill alone. There
were, of course, numerous buildings more or less connected with the imperial establishment,
among them being quarters for the officers and soldiers of the guard. There were also a number
of temples, one of which, the magnificent shrine of Apollo, the god of light and learning,
stood in a court marvellously enriched with sculptured masterpieces, while connected with it
were libraries filled with Greek and Latin books and adorned with the busts and medallion-portraits
or statues of great authors.

If we proceeded now to walk up the Sacred Way, along the narrow street edged by jewellers'
and other shops, we should meet as yet with no Arch of Titus, nor in descending beyond should
we see any Colosseum, but only a block of ordinary dwellings, to be swept away later in this
year by the fire which made room here for the ornamental waters of Nero's Golden House. Turning
to the right along the valley between the Palatine and Caelian Hills, we should not have to
pass under any Arch of Constantine; but, after glancing up to the left at the great unfinished
temple of Claudius and going under the Claudian aqueduct which carries water to the Palatine,
we should proceed between private houses and gardens till we reached a famous gate in the ancient
wall and found ourselves on that noted Appian Way, which would take us to Capua and thence
over the Apennines to Brindisi and the East. Just outside the gate we should find the livery-stables,
with their vehicles and horses or mules waiting to be hired for the stage which would carry
us as far as the slope on the southern edge of the Alban Hills.

But we will not proceed in this direction. From our stand at V in front of the temple of Vesta
we will turn back, walk over the Forum to the right of the Rostra, between the sanctuary of
Janus and the front of the Senate-House. Thence we will cross an enclosed forum, or public
place, erected by Julius Caesar, with its temple of "Venus the Mother" in the middle, and so
enter the Forum of Augustus. This is worth a pause. As you pass to-day up the narrow Via Bonella
and perceive near the Pantani Arch a few imposing columns and a patch of rather depressing
bare wall, it requires much effort to realise that here was once a noble space enclosed by
marble-covered walls 100 feet in height, and that those walls contained in a series of niches
a gallery of statues of all the military heroes and patriots of Roman history from Aeneas downwards.
Meanwhile the few columns at your side are the sole survivors of the number which surrounded
the splendid temple of Mars the Avenger, the shrine which was identified in imperial times
with the military power of Rome, and which received the standards captured from the enemy,
just as captured flags are to be seen in many a modern church.

Leaving this Forum, we will not bear to the right to find ourselves amid the dense population
of the Subura and its neighbourhood, but we will turn to the left and pass between the Capitoline
and Quirinal Hills, which then met more steeply and closely than they did fifty years later,
when Trajan had cut away the rising ground and levelled an open space which must have been
an incalculable advantage to the convenience of the city. It is perhaps well to observe here
that the piling up of fallen ruins and the deliberate levellings and gradings, both in ancient
and modern times, have greatly altered the appearance of the often-mentioned hills of Rome,
especially of the Quirinal, Viminal, and Esquiline.

Emerging from this too narrow passage-way and proceeding a short distance, we enter that straight
Flaminian Road which has been replaced by the modern Corso beginning at the Piazza Venezia.
For the first part of its course it was also known as "Broadway." We are now in that more open
part of Rome which lies outside the ancient wall, and which is commonly spoken of loosely as
the Campus Martius. Here again, it is impossible to inspect all the various sights visible
in the year 64. A few examples must suffice. As you walk along this straight thorough-fare--the
commencement of the road which would eventually carry you to the North of Italy--you will find
but few buildings of any note on your right. Lying to your left is a long and wide cloistered
space which contains not only certain public offices and a pillared promenade, but also the
richest shops in Rome, where are sold gold and silver work, objects of art, tapestries, and
fine fabrics from Alexandria, Syria, and farther East. The place is, in fact, mainly a huge
bazaar. Up the Flaminian Way beyond this enclosure we go under a triumphal arch erected by
the late Emperor Claudius to record his conquest of Britain, where he subdued "eleven kings"
without Roman loss. Keeping straight on we pass, this time on our right, another large enclosure
surrounded by arcades, where is now the east side of the Piazza Colonna. In and about this
locality are carried on not only promenades and saunterings but also various athletic exercises,
including feats of horsemanship. Farther on still, and you will see to your left the Mausoleum
of Augustus, rising some 220 feet into the air. Its base, coated with sculptured marble, contains
one grand sepulchral chamber for Augustus himself, and fourteen smaller chambers for members
of his family. Above this base towers a conical mound of earth planted with evergreen trees,
and on the summit is a colossal statue of the first emperor. Close by is a paved space, where
the bodies of the Caesars are cremated before their ashes are placed in the Mausoleum. From
this spot a ready faith saw their immortal part carried up to heaven by the eagle, messenger
of Jove.

Turning back and passing across the Campus we arrive at the public baths erected by Nero, and
then at the Pantheon. This building, though shorn of many of its decorative splendours both
within and without, still stands structurally intact, at least as it was restored and enlarged
two generations later than our date. It is scarcely possible to say how far its shape was altered
at its restoration under Hadrian, but we may provisionally treat the edifice as already belonging
to our period. It is still, after all these centuries, an entirely noble pile, and forms a
fit receptacle for the tomb, not only of Victor Emanuel, but of Raphael. Its form is that of
a rotunda, with walls of concrete 20 feet in thickness and with a dome of concrete cast in
a solid mass. The middle of the dome is open to the sky, and by that means the building is
lighted in a manner most perfectly suited to it. Could we behold it fully restored and at its
best, we should see above its portico, which is supported by huge marble pillars each made
of a single stone, large bronze reliefs of gods and giants. To one side of the doors would
be a colossal statue of Augustus; on the other a colossal statue of the builder Agrippa, the
son-in-law of that emperor. Inside there is a series of niches for colossal effigies of Mars,
Venus, and other deities connected with the Julian family. The marble pillars dividing the
niches have capitals of fine bronze, and the coffered ceiling of the dome, now bare and colourless,
shines with gilt on blue, like the sky lit up with stars. The doors, which have mysteriously
remained entire, are also of noble bronze; the roof consists of tiles of bronze thinly plated
with gold. The gold has naturally vanished, after passing into Saracen hands; of the bronze
nearly half a million pounds weight has been stripped from the building, some to make cannon
for the defence of the Castle of St. Angelo, some to form the twisted columns which now support
the giant baldacchino under St. Peter's dome.

At a short distance behind this magnificent temple Agrippa--who was in charge of the aqueducts
and water-supply--had also built the first great public baths. It would probably be incorrect
to found any detailed description of them upon what we know of the stupendous structures of
Caracalla and Diocletian, which were perhaps the most amazing exhibitions of public luxury
ever seen in the world. Of these we know how huge and splendid were the halls, with their coloured
marbles, their mosaic floors, their colossal masterpieces of statuary, their elaborate arrangements
of baths--cold, tepid, hot and dry-sweating--their conversation-rooms and reading-rooms. But
we cannot pretend to say how far the Agrippan and Neronian baths of the year 64 corresponded
in magnificence to these. We shall be safer in simply assuming that, since the baths of Pompeii
were in full swing in the year in question, Home must have possessed establishments of a similar
kind but on a larger and more sumptuous scale.

Leaving without further mention the various temples of Minerva, Isis, Serapis, and other deities
which might be found about the Campus Martius, we note an undistinguished stone amphitheatre,
the only resort of the kind as yet possessed by the metropolis. In this were exhibited the
sanguinary combats of gladiators with each other, and the fights with wild beasts performed
by trained professionals or by criminals selling their lives as dearly as possible. Of these
"sports" we have to treat in a later chapter. Coming nearer to the Tiber, while returning towards
the city proper, we pass in succession the three great theatres, lofty semicircular constructions
of stone and concrete faced with marble, one computed to hold 40,000 spectators, but probably
accommodating not more than 25,000, and the others some 20,000 and 12,000 respectively. In
these matters we must allow both for Roman exaggeration and Roman close-packing. The theatres
rise in three stories, of which the outward sides consist of open arcades adorned with pillars
in varied styles, while round their bases are shops for the sale of sweetmeats, beverages,
perfumes, and other articles which the theatre-goer or the loitering public may require. What
a theatrical Performance was like is a matter belonging to the question of spectacles and amusements.
At the back of the largest theatre--that of Pompey--lies a large square surrounded by colonnades
of a hundred pillars, where sycamores form avenues and fountains play, while statues of finished
workmanship stand where they produce the best effect. Particularly grateful to the Roman lounger
were the seats in the large semi-circular bays, so placed as to offer full protection from
too hot a sun or too cold a wind.

By the time that we have passed the last theatre of the three we have arrived at the river
end of the low valley leading into the Forum between the Capitoline Hill and the Palatine,
a place which had once been a cattle-market but had now become an open place surrounded by
dwellings of the humbler sort. It still, however, bore the name of "Cattle-Market." If from
this point we followed the river bank, we should come to the wharves, to which the smaller
ships bring up the Tiber the freights of grain transhipped from the larger vessels from Alexandria
or Carthage, or of marble from the quarries of Numidia, Greece, and Phrygia, or of granite
and porphyry from Upper Egypt. All along this bank are the offices and storehouses of such
cargoes, and here too is performed much of the shaping of those blocks which Rome is using
in such astonishing profusion. Along the river by the stone embankment the ships are moored,
with their cables passed through huge stone corbels or sculptured lions' mouths. No busier
part of Rome could be found than this, but we have no time to proceed further in this direction.

In front of us rises the Aventine Hill, another quarter of the wealthy, but otherwise chiefly
distinguished by its temples of Juno the Queen and of Diana. Turning our eyes from the Aventine
to the left we see lying in the valley between Aventine and Palatine--where now are the Jewish
Cemetery and the grimy Gasworks--the vast Circus Maximus or Hippodrome. This structure, devoted
chiefly to chariot-racing, is some 700 yards in length and 135 in width, and will at a pinch
hold nearly a quarter of a million spectators. In all probability it would seat 150,000. It
consists, as the illustration will show, of long tiers of seats sweeping down the sides and
round the curved end of an oblong space. As with the theatres, its outside view presents three
tiers of marble arches, and through the lowest tier are numerous staircases leading to the
various sections of the seats within. Those seats themselves are laid upon large vaults of
concrete; the lower rows are of marble, the upper ones are as yet of wood. How the chariot-races
were run, and what is meant by the "sports of the circus," will naturally require a separate
narration.

Coming back from the entrance of this mammoth place of amusement and turning up the Velabrum
Valley, we pass by a temple of Augustus, to which is attached a public library, and issue by
the temple of Castor into the Forum to our first standing-point at F.

CHAPTER VIII

STREETS, WATER-SUPPLY, AND BUILDING MATERIAL

After this rapid walk through the more interesting parts of the capital, we may consider one
or two connected topics of natural interest.

Amid all this splendour and spaciousness of public buildings, what is the aspect of the ordinary
streets? In this respect Rome was by no means fortunate. As in Old London, Old Paris, or Old
New York, the streets had for the most part grown up as chance circumstances would have it.
There were very few thoroughfares laid out straight from the first like the Flaminian or "Broad"
Road. Alexandria and Antioch were the creations of monarchs who began with a clear field and
a consistent scheme. Their straight, broad streets might well be the envy of the capital. The
Romans, then as now, possessed the engineering genius, but they could not well undo the work
of a struggling past, which had necessitated the crowding of population, within the defences
of a wall. They knew how to supply the city abundantly with water, and how to drain it with
sewers of great capacity and strength. The chief of such sewers--the Cloaca Maxima--which passed
underneath the Forum to the Tiber and was laid down more than twenty-five centuries ago, is
still in working order. But no republican or imperial government ever took it in hand to Hansmannise
the city, even after one of those devastating conflagrations which might seem to have cleared
the way. It is true that all traffic of vehicles, except for special processions, for Vestal
Virgins, and a few other cases--was forbidden for ten hours in the day. All through the morning
and afternoon there were no wheels in the Roman streets, unless some public building imperatively
demanded its load of stones or timber, or unless the few privileged persons were proceeding
in their carriages to some festival. Nevertheless the rich men and women in their litters or
sedan-chairs, attended by their servants or their clients; the porters carrying their heavy
loads; the itinerant hucksters; and the ordinary man on errand or other business bent, made
up crowds which were often difficult to pass through.

Another consequence of the old compression within narrow walls was that, as population increased,
the houses grew more lofty. How high the Romans built, or were allowed to build, in republican
times we cannot tell. The tendency was certainly to build higher and higher, and sky-scrapers
would perhaps have become the rule if the ancient Roman had understood the use of materials
both sufficiently light and sufficiently strong, or if he had been forced to establish his
work on secure foundations. In point of fact there had been, and there continued to be, too
much of jerry-building. Houses sometimes collapsed, and many were unsubstantially shored up.
A flood or an earthquake was apt to find them out, and there was frequent peril in the streets.
The majority of the abodes of people of humble means were not like those in smaller towns,
such as Pompeii, still less like those in the country. They were "tenement houses," large blocks
let out in rooms and flats, and it was natural that landlords should make haste to run them
up and to increase the number of their stories. When Augustus became emperor he enacted what
may be called a Metropolitan Building Act, which insisted on firmer foundations and limited
the height to 70 feet. That act was apparently still in force in the age of Nero, and we may
take it that along the more frequented streets the houses commonly ran to a height of four
or five stories. They looked the taller because of the narrowness of the street itself. While
it is perhaps, though not necessarily, an exaggeration for the epigrammatist--who lived "up
three pair of stairs, and high ones"--to say that he could touch his opposite neighbour with
his hand, it is at least an indication of the truth. Some of the narrower lanes between blocks
cannot have been more than a few feet across.

Nor does it appear that the occupants' of rooms opening on the streets were very particular
as to what they threw out in the way of rubbish or dirty water. It is true that there were
aediles, or officers to look after the order of the streets and public places, but their efforts
seem to have been mainly directed to preventing conspicuous obstruction. Practices which we
should regard as heinous were treated lightly or disregarded. To make matters worse, the shopkeepers,
who occupied the lower fronts of most of such houses, took the greatest liberties in encroaching
upon the roadway when exhibiting their wares, and it was not till twenty years later than our
date that the Emperor Domitian ordered them to keep within their own thresholds.

Apart from the question of the freedom of traffic, it can be readily imagined that, with all
the wooden counters, doors, and shutters down below, and with the disproportionate quantity
of woodwork in the beams, floors, and even walls above, fires were of the commonest occurrence,
and, with streets so high and narrow, the conflagration of a whole quarter of the town was
speedy and complete. Augustus had divided the metropolitan area into fourteen regions, and
had distributed over these a force of 7000 watchmen to keep the peace and to deal with fires
at night; but it was not to be expected, if a fire occurred in a lofty block, that this body,
assisted or hampered by the neighbours, could do much with the buckets, siphons, and wet blankets
which formed the extinguishing apparatus of the time.

Another serious danger, or, when not danger, at least discomfort, came from the trick which
the Tiber has always had of flooding the lower parts of the city. Somewhat later than our date
the river restrained by strong stone embankments, which one had to descend by steps in order
to reach the river at the ferries or other boats; but this must have been but inadequately
achieved in the early period of the empire, and a severe flood might bring the houses in the
Velabrum, for example, tumbling about the ears of their inhabitants.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the whole the streets of Neronian Rome were neither very comfortable nor very safe to walk
in. At night there was no lighting, except when, at some great festival, illuminations might
be made by order of the emperor for a whole night or perhaps a series of nights. In ordinary
times torches and lanterns must be provided by yourself, and even the 7000 watchmen scarcely
gave you a full feeling of security. The precise arrangements made for scavenging are unknown,
but presumably it was done by the public slaves under the supervision of the aediles. It is,
however, easy to discover from contemporary complaints that the streets were often annoyingly
wet and slimy.

One thing the ordinary Roman appears never to have minded, any more than it is minded at the
present day. This was noise. There are studious men enough in ancient literature who complain
that sleep or study is impossible in Rome. They exclaim upon the bawling of the hawkers, the
canting songs of the beggars, the banging of hammers, the sing-song of schoolboys learning
to read in the open-air verandahs or balconies which often served as schools, and the shouting
in the baths. All night long there was the rattle of carts and the creaking of heavy waggons.
But the average Roman cared, and still cares, very little for quiet or sleep, and no emperor
attempted to check the annoyance. Perhaps he could devise no check. Perhaps he himself, being
on the Palatine, and his counsellors, being in their own comparatively secluded houses on the
hills, scarcely realised the full enormity of the nocturnal roar of Rome. In any case the fact
of the noise is unquestionable. It was then very much as it is now if one tries to sleep in
rooms in the Corso or the Via Babuino. The saying that "God made the country and man made the
town" is met with in a Roman writer of the age of Augustus, and the noise is one factor in
the difference.

The ancient Romans, we have said, were masters of practical engineering, and a chief glory
of the city was its abundant supply of water. Apart from the Tiber and the natural springs,
there were in the year 64 at least eight aqueducts bringing drinkable water into the city.
It was the emperor's concern to see to this matter, as he did to the corn-supply, but in practice
he appointed what he might call his Minister of Water-supply, and gave him liberal means to
provide a large staff of engineers, surveyors, masons, pipelayers, inspectors, and custodians.
It is a common error to imagine that the Romans were ignorant of the simple hydraulic law that
water will find its own level, and to suppose that their aqueducts were built in consequence
of that ignorance. In point of fact they knew the law as well as we do. Their earlier aqueducts
were conduits almost wholly underground; their later were all on arches. When they wished to
carry water to a height within the city, up a watertower to a distributing cistern, or to the
top storey of a building, they did so by pipes, just as we should; but when they brought water
from forty miles away they preferred to bring it in channels lined with impermeable cement
and carried upon arches, which wound across the country according to the levels in order to
avoid the excessive pressure of too steep a gradient. The reasons for their choice are simple
enough. Their chief difficulty was in making pipes of iron of sufficient capacity. On the other
hand, it was easy to construct a cemented channel in masonry of any size you desired. In the
next place the water about Rome rapidly lays a calcareous deposit, and it is much easier to
clear this from a readily accessible channel than from pipes buried in the ground. The pipes
which the Romans commonly made were of lead, bronze, or wood. None of these could be made and
cleared cheaply enough to serve for the volume of water required for household use, the baths,
and the public fountains of Rome. Meanwhile slave labour was inexpensive, and the cost of building
an aqueduct of any length was of little account to the Roman.

When the water reached the city it was conducted into settling and distributing reservoirs
and its flow regulated. Thence it was carried by pipes, mostly of lead, wherever it was required.
When Agrippa was minister of water-supply he constructed in the city 700 public pools or basins
and 500 fountains, drawing their supply from 130 collecting heads or reservoirs. And it is
to the credit of Agrippa and of Rome that all these pools, fountains, and reservoirs were made
pleasant to the eye with suitable adornment. There is mention of 400 marble columns and 300
statues, but these are to be regarded as only chief among the embellishments.

The streets of Rome were commonly paved with blocks of lava quarried in the neighbourhood from
the abundant deposits which had formed in a not very remote volcanic period.

The materials employed for substantial building were various; in the older days red and black
tufa--a stone so soft as to require protection by a layer of stucco; later the dark-brown peperino,
the golden-creamy travertine, marble white and coloured, and concrete. The modern visitor to
Rome who regards the ruins but superficially would naturally imagine that many of the edifices
were mainly constructed of brick. In reality there was no building so composed. The flat triangular
bricks, or rather tiles, which are so much in evidence, are but inserted in the face of concrete
to cover the nakedness of that material. Concrete alone might serve for cores and substructures,
but those parts of the building which showed were required to present a more pleasing surface.
At the date of Nero this might be achieved by a fronting of marble slabs and blocks, but more
commonly it was obtained by means of the triangular red or yellow tiles above mentioned. In
buildings of slightly earlier date the exterior often presented a "diamond pattern" or network
arrangement of square pieces of stone inserted in the concrete while it was still soft. The
huge vaults and arches affected by the Romans made concrete a particularly convenient material,
and nothing could better illustrate its strength than the tenacity with which it has endured
the strain in the unsupported portions of the vaults of the Basilica of Constantine. Any of
the more imposing buildings which were not mainly of concrete were composed of blocks of stone,
held to each other by clamps soldered in with lead. Few, if any, such buildings were made entirely
of marble. In the case of those composes of the other varieties of stone already named, the
surface was commonly coated either with stucco or with marble facings attached by hook-like
clamps fixed into the main structure Externally the appearance of Rome--so far as its public
buildings are concerned-was that of a city of marble. The present having been for centuries
torn away, either to be used elsewhere, or more often to be burned down for lime.

CHAPTER IX

THE ROMAN TOWN HOUSE

We have taken a general survey of the city of Rome, its open places, streets, and public buildings.
We may now look at the houses in which the Romans lived, and at the furniture to be expected
inside them.

Mention has already been made of the large and lofty tenement houses or blocks, often mere
human rookeries, which were let out in lodgings to those who did not possess sufficient means
to occupy a separate domicile of their own. These buildings, which were naturally to be found
in the busier streets and more thickly inhabited quarters, were not, however, the habitations
most typical of the romanized world. They were created by the special circumstances of the
city, and might recur in other towns wherever the conditions were similar. The cramped island
part of Tyre, for example, possessed houses even loftier than those of Rome. Where there was
sufficient room--that is to say, where there was no large population crowded into a space limited
by nature or by walls of defence--the ordinary house was of a very different character. It
was built on a different plan and seldom ran to more than two stories, if so high. We shall
shortly proceed to describe such a house; but it is first desirable to say something more of
the tenement "block" in the metropolis. It is to be regretted that no such building has actually
come down to us; we are therefore compelled to form our notions of one from the scattered references
and hints of literature. Nevertheless if these are read in the light of customs still observable
in Rome itself and in other parts of Italy, the picture becomes fairly definite.

A block--or "island," as it was called--might be a building of four or five stories, surrounded
by four of the narrow streets, lanes, or alleys which formed a network in the city. Whether
managed by the landlord, by his agent, or by a tenant who sub-let at a profit, it was divided
into lodgings, which might consist either of a single room or of a suite. Some such rooms and
flats were "ordinary," others were described (as they are still in the advertisements of modern
Rome) as "suitable for a gentleman," or, to use the exact language of the day, "suitable for
a knight." Access to the respective quarters of the house was to be gained, not solely through
a main door, but by separate stairs leading up directly from the streets and lanes. It would
appear that each tenant had his own key, corresponding, though hardly in convenience of size,
to our latch-key. Whereas it will be found that the ordinary private house of one storey was
for the most part lighted by openings in the roof and by wide courts, this arrangement could
manifestly be applied only partially to the tall tenement buildings. There might, it is true,
exist in the middle interior of such a block an open space or "well," with galleries running
round it at each floor, so that the inner rooms could obtain light from that quarter. It is
also to be assumed that stairs ran up to these galleries, so that the inward rooms or flats
were made accessible in this way. Mainly, however, the light came from windows opening on the
street. If we glanced up at these from below we should find them narrower than ours at the
present day--since we have discovered how to produce large and entirely diaphanous sheets of
glass--but probably not narrower than those of a century ago. They were either mere openings
with shutters, or, in the better houses, were glazed with transparent material. In the brighter
part of the year they contained their boxes of flowering or other plants, and were often provided
with a shade-awning not unlike those so familiar in Paris.

The roof of such a building was either gabled and covered with tiles or, though perhaps less
often, it was flat. The flat roof sometimes formed a terrace, on which the plants of a "roof-garden"
might be found growing either in earthenware tubs or in earth spread over a layer of impermeable
cement. The lowest floor, level with the street, commonly consisted of shops, which were open
at full length in the day, but were shuttered and barred at night. As with the shops which
are now built into the sides of large hotels and the like, they had no communication with the
interior of the building. Regularly, however, they possessed a short staircase at the back
or side leading to an upper room or entresol, where, in the poorer instances, the shopkeeper
might actually reside. To the aristocratic Roman, with his contempt of petty trade, "born in
the shop-loft" was a contemptuous phrase for a "son of nobody."

Meanwhile the more representative houses of the strictly Roman part of the Roman world--that
is to say, the dwellings of Romans or of imitators of Romans, wherever they might be settled,
as distinct from the Greek and Oriental houses or from the various kinds of primitive huts
to be found among the Western provincials--were of three chief kinds. These were the town house,
the country seat, and the country homestead. There was, of course, nothing to prevent a wealthy
Roman from building his town house exactly like a country seat, or vice versa, if he had so
chosen, but from considerations of purpose, apart from those of local space and view, it would
have been altogether irrational to take either course. The conditions of his life in town and
country differed even more widely than they do with us. The average Roman, moreover, was a
lover of variety in respect of his habitation. We find in a somewhat later epigrammatist that
one grandee keeps up four town houses in Rome itself, and moves capriciously from one to the
other, so that you never know where you will find him. At different seasons or in different
moods he might prefer this or that situation or aspect. As for country seats of various degrees
of magnificence, a man might--like many modern nobles or royalties--possess three, four, a
dozen, or twenty. He might, for example, own one or more on the Italian Lakes, one in Tuscany,
one on the Sabine or Alban Hills, one on the coast within a half-day's run of Rome, one on
the Bay of Naples, one down in the heel of Italy, and so on. Pliny the Younger, who was born
in the reign of Nero, was not a particularly rich man, yet he owned several country seats on
Lake Como alone, besides others nearer to Rome on north and south, at the seaside, or on the hills.

We may begin with a town house, and our simplest procedure is to take a plan exhibiting those
parts which were most usual for an establishment of even moderate pretensions. Let it be understood
that it is but the symmetrical outline of a general scheme which was in practice submitted
to indefinite enlargement or modification. In the house of Livia, the mother of Augustus, on
the Palatine Hill at Rome, and in various houses at Pompeii--such as those of the Vettii, of
"Sallust," of the "Faun," or of "The Tragic Poet"--there will be found much diversity in the
number and arrangement of the rooms, halls, and courts. Nevertheless the main principle of
division, the general conception of the portions requisite for their several purposes, was
practically the same. Some of the differences and enlargements may be illustrated after we
have considered our first simple outline. Before we undertake this, however, it may be well
to warn any one who may have visited or be about to visit Pompeii, that he must exclude from
his thoughts all those small premises of a room or two which face so many of the streets. These
were mostly shops, with which we are not now dealing. He must also exclude all the public edifices.
This done, he must remember that we now possess only portions of the walls without the roofs,
and that in such circumstances apartments always appear to be much smaller than they are by
actual measurement, or than they appear when they contain their furniture and appointments
properly disposed. Finally, he must not take a Pompeian house, even the most spacious, as a
fair example of either the size or splendour of the great houses in the metropolis. Pompeii
was but a small place, with a population of no great wealth or standing, and its houses would
have cut but a provincial figure among those of the same date on the Aventine, Caelian, Esquiline,
or Quirinal Hills. Nevertheless they are extremely useful to us in reconstructing the type.
It is that type and not the exception which we now consider.

A town house might either be detached or it might stand in a street, like one of the tenement-blocks,
with shops let into the less important parts of the outer wall of the ground floor. Much would
naturally depend upon the means and dignity of the owner. In any case the interior portions
would belong to the private residence. As a rule the exterior of the ordinary house was little
regarded. No architecture was wasted upon it; decoration and other magnificence belonged to
the interior. Provided a house possessed a more or less imposing doorway its exterior walls
might be left either to shops or to a dull monochrome of stucco, pierced here and there, if
necessary, at 9 or 10 feet from the ground by barred slits, which cannot be called windows,
for the admittance of light. The general principle of a Roman house, as of a Greek, was that
of rooms surrounding spaces lighted from within. Privacy from the outer world was not indeed
so scrupulously sought by the Romans as by the Athenians--principally because of the more free
position occupied by the Roman women--nevertheless it was secured by the absence of ground-floor
windows opening on any thoroughfare.

Before the actual door there was commonly an open recess or space a little backward from the
street, in which callers could wait until the door was opened. This was the "vestibule," and
in the case of the larger houses of the nobles it was often adorned with honorary statues,
on horseback or otherwise, while above the door might be seen the insignia of triumphs won
by the family, a decoration in some measure corresponding to the modern hatchment, except that
it was permanently fixed. This regularly remained as a mark of the house even when it changed
owners. It was in such a vestibule of his Golden House that Nero erected his own colossal statue,
destined afterwards to give its name to the Colosseum. Over the larger vestibules there might
be a partial roof, but generally, and perhaps always at this date, they were without cover.

Facing you in the middle of the vestibule are double or folding doors, more or less ornate
with bronze, ivory, and other work, and generally bearing a large ring or handle to serve either
as a knocker or to pull the door to. Above them is a bronze grating or fretwork for further
adornment and to admit light and air. Some householders, more superstitious or conventional
than the rest, affected an inscription, such as "Let no evil enter here," and over some humbler
entrance you might find a cage containing a parrot or magpie, which had been trained to say
"Good luck to you" in Greek. At either side of the door, or of the actual entrance to the vestibule,
is a column or pilaster, either made of timber and cased with other woods of a more beautiful
and costly kind, or consisting of coloured marble with an ornate capital. These "doorposts"
were wreathed with laurel or other foliage on festal occasions, such as when the occupant had
won some distinguished honour in the field, in the courts, or at the elections, or when a marriage
took place from within. At funerals small cypress trees or branches would be placed in and
about the vestibule. At one side of it you might sometimes find a smaller door, to be used
for the ordinary going in and out when it was unnecessary or inconvenient for the larger doors
to be opened.

The doors themselves turn, not upon hinges of the modern kind, but upon pivots, which move,
often too noisily, in sockets let into the threshold and lintel. The fastenings consisted of
locks--often highly ingenious--of a bar laid across from wall to wall, of bolts shot across
or upward and downward, and sometimes of a prop leaning against the inside of the door and
entering a cavity in the floor of the passage. The floor of the entrance passage itself might
be paved with marble tiles, or made simply of a polished cement with or without patterns worked
in it; or it might consist of small cubes of stone, white and black or more variously coloured,
frequently worked into figures, and now and then accompanied by an inscription just within
the threshold, such as "Greeting" or "Beware the Dog." In one Pompeian house the floor bears
the well-known mosaic likeness of a dog held upon its chain. At the side of the passage there
is often a smaller room for the janitor. When there is none, he must be supposed to have used
a movable seat.

Passing through the passage, you find yourself in a rectangular hall, upon which was lavished
the chief display in the way of loftiness and decoration. In the middle of the ceiling is an
open space, square or oblong, to which the tiles of the gabled roof converge from above, and
in the middle of the floor beneath is a corresponding basin, edged and paved with coloured
or plain marble. The basin is of no great depth, and contains the water which has been poured
into it from the ornamental pipe-mouths of bronze or terra-cotta projecting, like gargoyles,
from the edge of the opening above. Sometimes the basin contained a fountain. There is of course
an outlet pipe for the surplus water, but some of that overflow often ran into a covered cistern,
over which you would find a small circular well-mouth, ornamented with sculptured reliefs.
The opening in the ceiling may be formed simply by the space between the four cross-beams,
or it may be supported by a pillar--of marble or of brick cased with marble--at each corner,
or it may rest upon a greater number of such pillars. It is this opening which lets in the
light and air to the hall, and it should always be remembered that the Italian house had more
occasion to seek coolness and freshness than warmth. On a day of glaring sunshine and heat
it was always possible to spread under the opening an awning or curtain of purple or other
colour, of which the reflected hues meanwhile lent a richness to the space below. If we take
one of the finer houses, we shall see, in glancing at the ceiling which covers the rest of
the hall, that it is divided into sunken panels or coffers, which are adorned with reliefs
in stucco and are painted, or else are decorated with copper, gold or ivory. The height may
be whatever the owner wishes, but perhaps 25 feet would be a modest average estimate. The floor
in such a house will generally consist of slabs of marble or of marble tiles arranged in patterns.
In houses of less show it may be made of the same materials as those described for the entrance
passage. To right and left are various chambers, shut off by lofty doors or by portières or
both. To these light is admitted their doors and the gratings over them, from the high window-slits
already mentioned in the outer wall, or sometimes, when there is no upper storey, from sky-lights.
And here let it be observed that the notion that the Romans of this date used very little glass
is altogether erroneous, as the discoveries at Pompeii and elsewhere sufficiently prove.

The walls of the hall are in the better instances either coated with panels of tinted marble,
or parcelled out in bright bands or oblongs of paint, or decorated with pictures of mythological,
architectural, and other subjects worked in bright colours upon darkened stucco. To our own
taste these colours--red, yellow, bluish-green, and others--as seen at Pompeii, are often excessively
crude and badly harmonised. But while it is true that the ancients appear to have been actually
somewhat deficient in colour-sense, it must be borne in mind that many of the Pompeian houses
were decorated by journeymen rather than by artists, and, above all, full allowance must be
made for the comparatively subdued light in which most of the paintings would be seen. The
hall might also contain statuary placed against the walls or against the supporting pillars,
where these existed. At the farther end from the entrance you will perceive to right and left
two large recesses or bays, generally with pilasters on either side. These "wings" were utilised
for a variety of purposes. One of them might occasionally serve for a smaller dining-room,
or it might hold presses and cupboards. In noble houses one of them would contain certain family
possessions of which the occupants were especially proud. These were the effigies of distinguished
ancestors, which served as a family-tree represented in a highly objective form. At our chosen
date there would be a series of portrait busts or else of portrait medallions, in relief or
painted, while in special receptacles, labelled underneath with name and rank, were kept life-like
wax masks of the line of distinguished persons, which could be brought out and carried in procession
at the funeral of a member of the family. Though there was no "College of Heralds" in antiquity,
it was commonly quite possible for a wealthy parvenu to get a pedigree invented for him. It
is true that by use and wont the "right of effigies" was confined to those families which had
held the higher offices of state, but there was no specific law on the subject, and the Roman
nouveau riche could act exactly like his modern representative in securing his "portraits of
ancestors."

Having thus glanced to right and left, to the ceiling and the floor, we now look at the end
of the hall facing us. The middle section of this is open, and is framed by a couple of high
pillars or pilasters and a cornice, which together formed perhaps the most distinguishing feature
of this part of the house. Between the pillars is an apartment which may or may not be raised
a step or two above the level of the hall. This, unlike the hall itself, is of the nature of
a sitting-room, reception-room, or "parlour" (in the old sense of that word), and contains
appropriate furniture. In it the master receives a guest, interviews his clients, makes up
his accounts, and transacts such other private business as may fall to his lot. At the back
it may be entirely closed, or it may contain a large window, through which we can catch a vista
of the colonnaded and planted court beyond. The floor may here consist of a large carpet-like
mosaic, such as that famous piece, taken from the House of the Faun at Pompeii and now in the
Naples Museum, which represents a battle between Alexander and the Persians. To one side of
the entrance to this "parlour" there will often stand on a pedestal the bust of the owner,
as "Genius of the home." On the other side there is a passage serving as the means of access
to the second or inner division of the house.

On making our way through this passage we find ourselves in a space still more open than the
hall. It is commonly an unroofed, quadrangular court surrounded by a roofed colonnade, and
thence known as the "peristyle." Or the colonnade may extend only round three sides, the back
being free to the garden. In the uncovered space lying between the rows of pillars there are
ornamental shrubs and flowers, marble tables, a cistern of water containing goldfish, a fountain,
and marble basins into which fresh water is spouted from bronze or marble statuettes, from
figures of animals, or from masks. Under the colonnade are marble floors or other more or less
rich pavements, decorated walls, and such works of art as the owner most affects.

When it seems desirable for shade and coolness, coloured curtains or awnings may be suspended
between the columns, so that one can sit or walk with comfort under the cloistered portion.
At the sides are apartments for different purposes. At the far end, or elsewhere, there is
regularly the largest dining-room, often with mosaic floor and generally with pictured walls.
Whereabouts in the house the family or an invited party should dine would depend partly on
the number to be present, partly on the season of the year, and partly on some passing inclination.
A house of any pretensions would possess several rooms used, or capable of being used, for
this purpose. Some dining-rooms had what we should call French windows on three sides, permitting
the diners to enjoy the view of the garden or the shrubbery outside.

Other large and airy apartments or saloons off the peristyle were used for social conversation,
or as drawing-rooms. Farther back still, approached by another passage or door, there was often
to be found a garden, containing an arbour or a terrace covered with a trailing vine, of the
kind known in modern Italy as a pergola. In suitable weather al fresco meals were often taken
here, and occasionally there were fixed couches and tables of masonry always ready for that
purpose.

Coming back from the garden into the court, we might explore other passages, leading to the
kitchen or to the bathrooms of hot, warm, and cold water. These offices would be respectively
situated wherever circumstances made them most convenient. In the kitchen the part corresponding
to our "range" consisted of a flat structure of masonry, on which the fire was lighted. The
cooking pots were placed either upon ridges of masonry running across the fire or upon three
legged stands of iron. The accompanying illustrations will sufficiently show what is meant.
The bedrooms, little better than cells, of the slaves, and also the storerooms, were variously
distributed. Underground cellars were apparently exceptional, although examples may be seen
at Pompeii.

Somewhere in one of the bays of the hall, at the back of the peristyle court, or elsewhere,
would be found a small shrine for the worship of the domestic gods. This was variously constructed.
Sometimes it was a niche or recess containing paintings or little effigies and with an altar
or altar-shelf beneath, sometimes a miniature temple erected against the wall. There was apparently
no special place to which, rather than any other, it was to be assigned. To the nature and
meaning of the household gods we may refer again when dealing with the general subject of religion.

In the homes of persons of culture there would also be included a library and, perhaps less
regularly, a picture-gallery. The library, which sometimes comprised thousands of rolls, would
be a room not only surrounded by large pigeon-holes or open cupboards containing the round
boxes for the parchment rolls, but also traversed by lower partitions provided on either side
with similar shelves. About the room, over or by the shelves, stand portrait busts or medallions
of great authors, both Greek and Roman, the "blind" Homer being represented in traditional
form, but the majority, from Aeschylus and Thucydides down to Virgil and Livy, being authentic
and excellent likenesses. In the picture-gallery would be found paintings either done upon
the stucco walls in a frame-like setting or upon panels of wood attached to the walls, very
much as we hang our modern pictures.

It was scarcely ever the case that a second storey--where one existed at all--extended over
the whole house. If upper rooms were used, they were placed over those parts where they would
interfere least with the light, the comfort, and the appearance of the ground-floor arrangements.
The stairs leading to them were variously disposed and as little as possible in evidence. In
such upper apartments there was naturally not the same risk from the curious or the burglar
as in the case of the lower, and windows of perhaps 4 by 2-1/2 feet were therefore freely employed.
In some instances, though we cannot tell how frequently, the second storey projected on strong
beams over the street, as in the example at Pompeii known as the "House of the Hanging Balcony."

It remains to make brief observations upon one or two matters interesting to any practical
householder. These are the questions of water-supply, drainage, warming, and roofing.

In respect of water there was no difficulty. It was brought in the ordinary way, from those
reservoirs which formed the ends of the aqueducts or conduits, by means of pipes, mostly made
of lead, though sometimes of bronze. These were conducted to the points where they were required,
and there the flow was manipulated by means of taps and plugs. In order to make a water-pipe,
a sheet of lead or bronze was rolled into a cylinder, the joining of the two edges taking the
shape of a raised ridge, which was soldered. One end of a section was squeezed or narrowed
so that it might be inserted into the widened end of the next. Lead pipes of no inconsiderable
size, stamped with the name of the owner, are to be seen preserved in the Palatine House of
Livia, and a number of smaller ones remain at Pompeii. For drainage there the sewers, and also
pipes to carry the less offensive overflow of water into the street channels, which in their
turn led into underground drains.

For the warming of a house the Romans not only portable braziers with charcoal for fuel, but
in the larger establishments there existed a system of "central" heating, by which hot air
was conducted from a furnace in the basement through flues running beneath the floor and up
through the walls, where its effect might be regulated by adjustable openings or registers.
The only fixed fire-place in a town house was in the kitchen. From this the smoke was carried
off by a flue, constituting to all intents and purposes a chimney. The belief that the Romans
were unacquainted with such things as chimneys has been proved to be untrue.

The roofing, when constructed, as it most frequently was, in a gabled form, consisted of terra-cotta
tiles arranged on a regular system. First came the flat layers, each higher row overlapping
the lower. The descending edges of a row of these flat plates, as they lay side by side, were
turned up into a kind of flange of about 2-1/4 inches in height, so that at the points of contact
a ridge was formed down the roof. Over this line was laid a series of other tiles shaped into
a half-cylinder, the lower end of each tile overlapping the next. By this means the rain was
prevented from penetrating the crevice between the flanges. At the bottom, above the eaves,
the line of semicircular tiles ended in a flower-like or mask-like ornament, which broke the
monotony of the horizontal edge of the roof.

After this description of what may be considered a representative Roman house, it is necessary
to repeat that it is but typical. Many were considerably smaller, containing, for example,
no peristyle. Many on the contrary were far more spacious and sumptuous, possessing more than
one hall and more than one peristyle, and varying the nature as well as the number and position
of those portions of the house. In exceptional cases the hall had no opening in the ceiling
and therefore no basin below, but was covered with a simple gabled roof which shed the rain-water
into the street. In exceptional cases also there was no "parlour" of the kind described a little
while ago. The situation of the house, enlargements made after the main part was built, the
joining of two houses into one, or other causes, often modified the rectangular and symmetrical
appearance presented in the plan hitherto given. Such modifications are, however, better illustrated
by a comparison of the plans of two well-known Pompeian houses than by any amount of verbal
description. The first is that of Pansa, which forms the main portion of a whole block, smaller
dwellings and shops unconnected with the Pansa establishment being built round and into it
at various points. The arrangements of this house closely approach the normal or simple type
described in this chapter. The second is the famous house of the Vettii, which departs somewhat
freely from the customary disposition of apartments.

The parts within the dark lines belong to the one house; the rest are other houses and shops
built into the block.

 1. Vestibule             11. Rooms
 2. Passage               12. Dining-Room
 3. Hall                  13. Winter Dining-Room
 4. Rooms                 14. Saloon (Drawing-Room)
 5. Wings                 15. Kitchen
 6. Dining-Room           16. Carriage Room
 7. Parlour               17. Boudoir
 8. Passage               18. Portico
 9. Library?              19. Saleroom
10. Peristyle             20. Passage to Side Door

It would be tempting to indulge in rhetoric and to dwell upon the magnificence of some of the
more luxurious houses of the wealthy Romans; to describe their ostentation of rich marbles
in pillar, wall, or floor--the white marbles of Carrara, Paros, and Hymettus; the Phrygian
marble or "pavonazzetto" its streakings of crimson or violet; the orange-golden glow of the
Numidian stone of "giallo antico"; the Carystian marble or "cipollino" with its onion-like
layers of white and pale-green; the serpentine variety from Laconia, and the porphyry from
Egypt. We might descant upon the lavish wall-paintings, representing landscapes real and imaginary,
scenes from mythology and semi-history, floating figures, genre pictures, and pictures of still
life; or upon the mosaics in floor and wall depicting similar subjects and often serving to
the occupants not so much in the place of pictorial art as in the place of wall-papers and
of Brussels or Kidderminster carpets. We might speak of the profuse collections of statuary,
of the gilding on ceiling and cornices, of the colours shed by the rich curtains and awnings
of purple and crimson, of the grateful sound of water plashing in the fountains and basins
or babbling over a series of steps like a broken cascade in miniature. But perhaps too much
of such description might only encourage still further the erroneous notion that the Roman
houses were all of this nature, and that even the average Roman lived in the midst of an abundance
of such domestic luxury and art. It requires but a little sober thought to realise that such
homes were, as they have always been, the exception. It would be as reasonable to judge of
an average London house by the most opulent specimens in Park Lane, or of an American house
by the richest at Newport, as to judge of the abodes of Romans in the time of Nero by the examples
which appeal so strongly to the novelist or the romancing historian. Suffice it that beside
the modest and frugal homes, the tenement flat, and the hovel, there were houses distinguished
by immense luxury; and, since Romans have at all times sought the ostentatious and grandiose,
perhaps such dwellings were larger and more pretentious in proportion to wealth than they are
in most civilised countries at the present day. Seneca, who made himself extremely comfortable
in the days of Nero, exclaims upon the rage for costly decoration. Says he of the bathing of
the plutocrat: "He seems to himself poor and mean, unless the walls shine with great costly
slabs, unless marbles of Alexandria are picked out with reliefs of Numidian stone, unless the
whole ceiling is elaborately worked with all the variety of a painting, unless Thasian stone
encloses the swimming baths, unless the water is poured out from silver taps." These, indeed,
are comparatively humble. "What of the baths of the freedmen? a mass of statues! What a multitude
of pillars supporting nothing, but put there only for ornament! What an amount of water running
over steps with a purling noise--and all for show!"

CHAPTER X

THE COUNTRY HOMESTEAD AND COUNTRY SEAT

Throughout the romanized parts of the empire--in other words, wherever Romans settled, in Italy,
Spain, Gaul, Britain, and also wherever the richer natives imitated the Roman fashions--the
house in any city or considerable town was built as nearly as possible after the type described.

In the country the poor naturally had their much simpler cottages and cabins of a room or two,
commonly thatched or shingled, knowing nothing of hall and court and all these arrangements
of art and luxury. In the case of the more well-to-do country people of Italy--the larger farmers,
wine-growers, olive-growers, and the like--the homestead was of a kind which made for simplicity
and comfort. It was in such homes that one would find the most wholesome life and the soundest
moral fibre of the time.

Normally the homestead would be a large, and often a rambling, building of one storey, except
where a tower served as a store-room for the mellowing wine or a loft for the mellowing fruit.
When we read in Horace about the liberal stack of wood to be kept in readiness near the hearth,
and about the wine-jar drinking in the smoke in the store-room we must think of his country
homestead on the Sabine Hills, not of a house in Rome, for at Rome there was no blazing hearth
to sit round and no smoky tower-loft for the ripening of the Caecuban.

You enter an open court or yard, round the sides of which may run the stalls of the horses
and oxen of the farm, the tool-rooms, the lofts of hay and corn, the quarters of the labourers--herdsmen,
ploughmen, vine-dressers--and the great farm-kitchen. It is in this kitchen that you will find
the bright hearth in winter-time, where all the members of the homestead gather round the fire.
It is here that they then all eat, and in it the women of the establishment perform their work,
spinning and weaving and mending. Off from the court will be situated the wine-press, or the
olive-press, the-granaries, the fruit mellowing on mats, and the various rooms or bins where
wine is fermented and stored, or where the olive-oil is treated and stocked. Commonly a more
retired court will contain the private rooms of the owner, and somewhere in the homestead will
be found the fowl-yard, with its hens, ducks, geese, and guinea-fowl, the sties, and the preserves
for various toothsome animals, including perhaps dormice and snails.

Frequently a Roman of the city affected a country house of this character, to which he would
flee during the tyrannous reign of the Dogstar or the Lion---in other words, during that hot
season of the year which requires no description for those who have been so ill-advised as
to sojourn in Rome in July, August, and early September. Many of his town slaves he would take
with him, and what was a holiday for him was also a holiday for them. His rural homestead would
possess great charm for the quieter type of man who had no real love for the pomps and shows
the rattle and tumult, of the city. The vision of wholesome country-produce--of fresh milk
and eggs and vegetables, and of tender poultry--is one which still attracts our city-folk.
But the vision, then as now, was often subject to disillusion. Complaints are many that you
had to feed the homestead in place of it feeding you, and when Martial has given a pleasant
picture of a family reaching the gate of Rome with a coachful of the typical produce of the
country, he ends by suddenly letting you know that they are not coming in from their country
house but are going out to it. The complaint of the English seaside town that there will be
no fish "till the train comes in from London," is thus a sufficiently old one. Yet the same
Martial supplies another picture, painted with such zest of frank enjoyment that we are at
once convinced of its truth. Some portions of it perhaps admit of translation in the following
terms:--

      Our friend Fundanus' Baian seat,
      My Bassus, is no pleasance neat,
      Where myrtles trim in idle lines,
      Clipped box, and planes unwed to vines
      Rob of right use the acres wide:
      'Tis farm-life true and countrified.
      In every corner grain is stacked,
      Old wines in fragrant jars are packed:
      About the farmyard gabbling gander
      And spangled peacock freely wander:
      With pheasant and flamingo prowl
      Partridge and speckled guinea-fowl:
      Pigeon and waxen turtle-dove
      Rustle their wings in cotes above.
      The farm-wife's apron draws a rout
      Of greedy porkers round about;
      And eagerly the tender lamb
      Waits the filled udder of its dam.
      With plenteous logs the hearth is bright.
      The household Gods glow in the light,
      And baby slaves are sprawling round.
      No town-bred idlers here are found:
      No cellarer grows pale with sloth,
      No trainer wastes his oil, but both
      Go forth afield and subtly plan
      To snare the greedy ortolan.
      Meanwhile the garden rings with mirth,
      While townfolk dig the yielding earth:
      No need for the page-master's voice;
      The saucy long-haired boys rejoice
      To do the manager's commands.
      At morn 'tis not with empty hands
      The country pays its call, but some
      Bring honey in its native comb,
      Or cones of cheese; some think as good
      A sleepy dormouse from the wood;
      And honest tenants' big girls bring
      Baskets with "mother's offering."

The visit to the country in the season of the "mad star" and the scirocco was as necessary
to the ancient Roman as is his villeggiatura to the modern. But there were other seasons when
he fled from town. If to the heat of summer he sought the hills, in the colder he might seek
the south of Italy, and in spring or autumn the seaside at various points the mouth of the
Tiber to southward of Salerno, might run away from inconvenient business or ceremonies, or
through a mere desire to get rest or sleep or change. He might wish, as Cicero and Pliny did,
to get away from the "games" and to study and write in quiet. He might fancy that his health
called for baths in the hot springs on the Bay of Naples, or for sea-bathing somewhere on the
Latian or Campanian coasts. To put it briefly, he was very much like our worried, bilious,
or exhausted selves. His life of ceremony was a hard one, and often he ate and drank too much.
But whereas nowadays we can make free choice of any agreeable spot, since every such spot possesses
its "Grand Hotel" or "Hotel Superbe," where we can always find the crowd and discomfort which
we pretend to be escaping, the Roman idea was different. It corresponded more to that of our
English nobles, who, in Elizabethan or Queen Anne days or later, built themselves country seats,
one, two, or more, indulging in architectural fancies and surrounding all with spacious gardens,
ponds, and rockeries. The Roman man of wealth created no hotels. He dotted his country seats
about in places where the air was warm for winter and spring, or cool for summer and autumn,
by the seashore, on the lower hills, or high on the mountain side. You would find them on the
Italian lakes or elsewhere toward the north. In greater numbers would you find them on the
hills near Rome, at the modern Tivoli or Palestrina, on the Alban heights near what are now
Frascati, Albano, or Genzano, along the shore at Antium, Terracina, Baiae, Naples, Herculaneum,
Pompeii, Castellamare, and Sorrento.

Perhaps it is not too much to say that more than a hundred and twenty miles of this coast were
practically a chain of country houses. The shore of the Bay of Naples has been compared to
a collar of pearls strung round the blue. Wherever there was a wide and varied landscape or
seascape, there arose a Roman country house. We are too prone to assume that the ancients felt
but little love or even appreciation of scenery, and to fancy that the feeling came as a revelation
to a Rousseau, a Wordsworth, or a nineteenth-century painter. That Roman literature does not
gush about the matter has been absurdly taken for proof that the Roman writer did not copiously
enjoy the glories presented to his eyes. But, though Roman literature does not gush, it often
exhibits the same feelings towards scenery which at least a Thomson or a Cowper exhibits. Perhaps
it was so accustomed to scenic beauties that it took for granted much that an English or German
writer cannot. At any rate we are sure that the Roman chose for his country seat a site commanding
the widest and most beautiful outlook, and that he even built towers upon his house to command
the view the better. In this respect he was like the mediaeval monks, when they chose the sites
of monasteries at San Martino or Amalfi, and his love of a belvedere was probably quite as
great as theirs.

The country seat differed widely from the town house. We must forget the plan which has been
given above, with its hall and court lighted from within, and made private from the passing
crowds in the street. In the country there is no need of such an arrangement. Moreover there
are no formal receptions to necessitate the hall, and there are ample gardens to make the peristyle
superfluous. Here the walls of the house may break forth into large and open windows, while
all around may run pillared verandahs. Built in any variety of shape, according to the situation
and the fancy, it may contain an immense variety of sitting-rooms, dining-rooms, bedrooms,
facing in every direction to catch the sun, the shade, the breeze, or the prospect, as the
case may be. Not that magnificence is any more neglected than in the great English country
seats. The pillars and pavements are as rich as means allow, and works of painting and statuary
are perhaps even finer and more numerous than in town; there is more time to look at them,
and there are better facilities for showing them off. Many of the best works of ancient sculpture
now extant in the museums have come from such country seats. There were of course vulgar houses
in bad taste, where the owner's notions of magnificence consisted in ostentatious extravagance
and a desire to outdo his neighbour. As now, everything depended either on the culture of the
man or on the amount of his good sense in leaving such matters to his artistic adviser.

Outside the house lie the gardens and grounds. For the most part these are laid out in the
formal style adopted so often in more modern Italy and favoured so greatly in England in the
early eighteenth century. Perhaps the Villa d'Este at Tivoli, though of course not ancient,
may convey some approximate idea of the prevailing principle. Along one side of the Roman house
we should find a smooth terrace ornamented with statues and vases, to be used as a promenade.
There are straight walks and avenues between hedges and trees and shrubs--cyprus, laurel, box,
and other manageable plants--cut to the shape of beasts and birds and inanimate objects. There
are flower-beds--of the rose, the crocus, the wallflower, the narcissus, the violet, but not,
for example, the tulip--laid out in geometrical patterns. There are trellis-work arbours and
walks covered with leafy vines or other trailing plants. There are clumps of bay-trees, plane
trees, or myrtles, with marble seats beneath. There is either an avenue or a covered colonnade,
where the ground is made of soft earth or sand, and where the family may take exercise by being
carried in a litter up and down in the open or under the shade. There are greenhouses and forcing-houses,
where flowers are grown under glass. There are fish-ponds, fountains, and water-channels, with
artificial cascades and a general suggestion of babbling streams. Out beyond lie the orchards
and the vegetable gardens, where are grown most of the modern fruits, including peaches, apricots,
and almonds, but not yet including either the orange or the lemon.

The country immediately round the mansion of the wealthy man was commonly his own estate. A
portion of this was frequently woodland, affording opportunities for hunting deer, wild boar,
and other game. For the boar the weapon was a stout spear, and the general practice of the
sportsman was to wait at a certain spot until the beast was driven towards it by a ring of
beaters. Deer were caught in nets or transfixed with javelins while running. In more open places
the hunter, accompanied by hounds, rode after a hare. But though far too much of Italy was
taken up by preserves of this unproductive kind, the large estates were mostly turned to agricultural
purposes. Different owners, different practices; but the possessor of a number of country seats
would in some cases work the land for himself by means of slaves--often in disgrace and labouring
in chains--under the direction of a manager or bailiff, while in others he would parcel out
his land on various terms among free tenants. It is gratifying to discover that in bad seasons
a generous landlord would sometimes remit a portion of his dues, and that he recognised various
obligations of a grand seigneur to his district. Among them was the keeping up and beautifying
of the local shrines and contributing to buildings and works for the public comfort.

Such would be the country seat when established landward. By the seaside, especially in a much-frequented
resort like Baiae, the room was more limited and the equipment modified. The extensive garden
would be absent, and the height of the building increased by a second or even a third storey.
It was no uncommon thing for such a "villa," as it was called, to stand out on a promontory,
where it could be greeted by the sea on either side. In many cases it was actually built out
into the sea on piles or on a basis of concrete, and the occupant made a special delight of
fishing from his window, and of letting the true sea-water flow into his swimming bath.

CHAPTER XI

ROMAN FURNITURE

On the customary furniture of a Roman house we need not spend many words. For one thing, it
was simple and scanty as compared with the furnishing and upholstering of to-day. For another,
its nature presents little that would be strange to us or that would require explanation.

Among the most conspicuous differences between Roman and modern furnishing must be reckoned
the absence of carpets, the comparatively small use of tables and chairs, the absence of upholstery
from such chairs as were used, and the greater part played by couches. In place of carpets
there were the ornamental floors, whether in geometrical pattern-work, arrangements of veined
marbles, or mosaic pictures composed of small blocks of coloured stone or glass. The making
of carpets was well understood in the East, and Rome would have found no difficulty in obtaining
as many as it chose, but so far as it employed tapestries they were for portieres and curtains,
for the coverings of dining-couches and beds, or for throwing across a chair-back. The Roman
kept his floors, walls, pillars, and ceilings carefully cleared of dust and stains by means
of brushes of feathers or light hair, brooms of palm or other leaves, and sponges. He thus
saved himself both the labour and the unwholesomeness of carpets.

We need not enter into dry details concerning such articles as were similar to our own. Of
the Roman seats it is enough to say that they were either square stools without back or arms,
or folding-stools, or they were true chairs either with straight arms and backs (the Origin
of the modern throne) to be used by the owner when receiving clients or visitors on business,
or with a long sloping back and without arms, as used particularly by women. A movable cushion
constituted all the upholstery.

But the Roman man seldom took his ease in a chair: even his reading and writing were commonly
performed while reclining upon a couch. When writing, he doubled his tablets on his knee, and
it may be presumed that habit made the practice easy and natural. The couch is, indeed, perhaps
the chief article of Roman furniture. So regular was it to recline that, where we should speak
of a sitting-room, the Romans spoke of a "reclining-room." At business they sat; but they reclined
in social conversation--unless it was brief--when reading, when taking the siesta, and when
dining. Their beds in the proper sense were similar to our own, though less heavy than those
of our older fashion. To mount them it was often necessary to use steps or an elongated footstool.
A slave in close attendance upon a master or mistress sometimes slept upon a low truckle-bed,
which, in the daytime, could be pushed under the other. The couches for day use were lower
and of lighter and narrower build, with a movable rest at the head and with or without a back.

Upon the frame of such couches a good deal of decoration was lavished in the way of veneerings
of ornamental wood, or thin plates of ivory or tortoise-shell, or reliefs in bronze or even
in gold or silver. The feet might also, in the richer houses, consist of silver or of ivory.
For the dining-rooms of people of wealth a special feature was made of such work upon the conspicuous
parts of the frames, while the cushions and coverings were of costly fabrics, richly dyed and
embroidered or damasked. The method of serving and eating a dinner is a subject which belongs
to our later treatment of a social day, and it must here suffice to picture the ordinary arrangement
of a dinner party.

In the middle is the table, either square or, if round, made if possible of a single piece
of costly wood richly grained by nature in a wavy or peacock pattern and obtained by sawing
through the lower part of the trunk of a Moorish tree. The price depended on the size. Of one
such circular slab we learn that it cost £4000. It may be needless to remark that many tables
were only "imitation." When not in use, and sometimes even then, such tables were protected
by coloured linen cloths. By preference this ancient equivalent of "the best mahogany" was
supported on a single leg, consisting of elephants' tusks or of sculptured marble. On three
sides are placed the couches, covered with mattresses stuffed with flock or feathers, and provided
with soft cushions for the left arm to rest upon. Sometimes, instead of the three separate
couches, there was but one large couch shaped like a crescent, either extending round half
the large circular table, or having more than one smaller table placed before it. Tables in
other rooms were scarcely to be found, since, as has already been remarked, they were not required
for reading or writing or for holding the various articles which we moderns place upon them.
Besides the dining tables we should generally find only a sideboard placed in the dining-room
for the display of articles of plate. This was either of ornamental wood or of marble with
a sculptured stand, and was distinctly meant for show. In place of tables for supporting necessary
objects we find tripods, either of bronze or marble, with a flat top and sometimes with a rim.

Other articles of household furniture were chests and presses or wardrobes. It was almost a
rule that in the hall, at the side or end, should stand a low heavy chest--occasionally more
than one--sometimes made of iron, sometimes of wood bound with bronze and decorated with metal-work
in relief. In this were contained supplies of money and other articles of value, and for this
reason it was strongly locked and often fastened to the ground by a vertical rod of iron. Such
a chest is still to be seen in its place in the House of the Vettii at Pompeii. Of portières,
curtains and awnings enough has been said, except that they were also used for draping the
less ornamental walls. Mirrors were apparently plentiful. No mention is made of such articles
in glass, probably because the ancients had not yet learned to make that material sufficiently
pure and true or to provide it with the proper foil or background. For the most part they were
made of highly polished copper, bronze, or silver. The smaller ones were held in the hand,
the handle and back parts being richly and often tastefully ornamented. There is an epigram
extant which tells of a vindictive Roman dame who struck her maid to the ground with her mirror,
because she detected a curl wrongly placed. Other mirrors were made so as to stand upon a support,
and there is mention of some sufficiently large to show the full length of the body.

In the absence of gas or electricity or even kerosene, there was no better means of lighting
a house than by oil-lamps. Even those were provided with no chimney. Naturally every effort
would be made to obtain such oil as would produce the least smoke or smell, but doubtless the
difficulty was never completely overcome. It is therefore natural to hear of the oil being
mixed with perfume. In the less well-to-do houses there might be wax candles, in still poorer
houses candles of tallow or even rush-lights, formed by long strips of rush or other fibrous
plant thinly dipped in tallow. Generally speaking, however, the Roman house was lit by lamps
filled with olive-oil. The commonest were made of terra-cotta, the better sorts of bronze or
silver, often richly ornamented and sometimes very graceful. As typical specimens we may take
those here illustrated.

The little figure standing on the one lamp is holding a chain, to which is attached the probe
for forcing up the wick or for clearing away the "mushrooms" that might form upon it. Lamps
are made in all manner of fantastic shapes--ships, shoes, and other objects--and may burn either
one wick or a considerable number, projecting from different nozzles. For the purpose of lighting
a room they may either be placed upon the top of upright standards, four or five feet high
and sometimes with shafts which could be adjusted in height like the modern reading-stand;
or they may be hung from the ceiling by chains, after the manner of a chandelier, or held by
a statue, or suspended from a stand shaped like a pillar or a tree, from whose branches they
hang like fruit. For use in the street there were torches and also lanterns, which had a metal
frame and were "glazed" with sheets of transparent horn, with bladder in the cheaper instances,
or with transparent talc in the more costly.

As with the Greeks, a Roman house was lavish in the use and display of cups and plate in great
diversity of shape and material. Glass vessels were numerous and, except for a perfectly pure
white variety, were produced both at Rome and Alexandria with the most ingenious finish. A
kind of porcelain was also known, but was very rare and highly valued. For the most part the
poor used earthenware cups and plates or wooden trenchers. The rich sought after a lavish profusion
of silver goblets studded with jewels and sometimes ventured on a cup of gold, although the
use of a full gold service was by imperial ordinance restricted to the palace. There were drinking
vessels, broad and shallow with richly embossed or repoussé work, or deep with double handles
and a foot, or otherwise diversified. There were all manner of plates and dishes of silver
or of silver-gilt. There were graceful jugs and ladles and mixing-bowls. What we regard as
most essential articles, but missing from a Roman table, are knives and forks. Table-forks,
indeed, were unknown till a very modern date, but even knives were scarcely in use at Rome
except by the professional carver at his stand. There were also heaters, in which water could
be kept hot at table and drawn off by a small tap.

If now we stepped into the kitchen we should find there practically every kind of utensil likely
to be of use even for the modern cuisine. There is no need here to catalogue the kettles and
pots and pans, the strainers and shapes and moulds, employed by Roman cooks. Perhaps it will
suffice to present a number of them to the eye. In general, however, it deserves to be remarked
that such a thing as a pail, a pitcher, a pair of scales, or a steelyard was not regarded in
the Roman household as necessarily to be left a bare and unsightly thing because it was useful.
The triumph of tin and ugliness was not yet. Such vessels as waterpots are still to be seen
made of copper in graceful shapes, if one will notice the women fetching water on the Alban
Hills. How far the domestic utensils resembled or differed from those still in use may be judged
from the specimens illustrated.

There existed no clocks of the modern kind, but the Romans do not appear to have suffered much
practical inconvenience in respect of telling the time and meeting engagements. Sundials, both
public and private, were numerous, but these were obviously of no use on gloomy days or at
night. The instrument on which the Romans mainly relied was therefore the "water-clock," which,
though by no means capable of our modern precision of minutes and even seconds could record
time down to small fractions of the hour. The principle was that of the hour-glass, water taking
the place of sand. From an upper vessel water slowly trickled through an orifice into a lower
receptacle, which at this date was transparent and was marked with sections for the hour and
its convenient fractions. In this way the time would be told by the mark to which the water
had risen in the lower portion. The Romans were not unaware of the difference between the conditions
of summer and winter flow of water, but it would appear that they had attained to proper methods
of "regulating" their rather awkward time-pieces. It is as well to add that in the wealthier
houses a slave was told off to watch the clock and to report the passing of the hours, as well
as to summon any member of the family at the time arranged for an appointment.

CHAPTER XII

SOCIAL DAY OF A ROMAN ARISTOCRAT--MORNING

We have seen in what sort of a home a Roman dwelt in town or country. Meanwhile it goes without
saying that the non-Roman or non-Romanized populations of the empire were living in houses
and amid furniture of their own special type--Greek, Syrian, Egyptian, or as the case might
be. They were also living their lives after their own fashion in respect of dress, meals, occupations,
and amusements.

We may now look at the manner in which a typical Roman might spend an ordinary day in the metropolis,
and endeavour to form some clear idea of the outward aspects of such a life. In the first instance
our Roman shall be a man of the senatorial aristocracy, blessed with both high position and
ample means, but one who, for the time being, holds no public office, whether as a governor,
a military commander, a Minister of Roads or Water Supply, an officer of the Exchequer, or
of Justice. Instead of referring to him awkwardly as "our citizen," we will call him Silius.
The same name may be borne by a large number of other persons, for it is the name of an early
Roman family which in course of time may have divided into several branches or "houses," answering
to each other very much as the "Worcestershire" So-and-Sos may answer to the "Hampshire" So-and-Sos,
except that the distinction in the Roman case is not territorial. Our Silius will therefore
naturally bear further names to distinguish him. One will be the special appellation of his
own "house" or branch, derived in all probability from its first distinguishing member. Let
us assume, for instance, that he is a Silius Bassus. As, again, there are probably a number
of other persons belonging to the same branch and entitled to the same two designations, he
will possess a "front name," answering to our "Christian" name, and he shall be called for
our purposes Quintus Silius Bassus. It is the middle name of the three which is regarded as
the name, but when there is no danger of mistake our friend may be addressed or written of
as either Silius or Bassus. In private life among his intimates he prefers to be called Quintus.
The individual name, family name, and branch name were frequently followed by others, but at
least these three are regularly owned by any Roman with claims to old descent. To us, however,
he will be Silius.

He lives, let us say, in one of the larger town-houses on the Caelian Hill, looking across
the narrow valley towards the Palatine, somewhere near the modern church of SS. Giovanni e
Paolo. It is before day-break that the loud bell has awakened the household slaves and set
them to their work. In the road below and away in the city the carts, which are forbidden during
the full daytime, are still rumbling with their loads of produce or building-material. All
night long the less happily housed inhabitants have tolerated this noise, together with the
droning and grating of the mills grinding the corn in the bakers' shops. It is however, now
approaching dawn, and imperial Rome, which goes to sleep late, wakes early. No few Romans,
even of the highest classes, have already been up for an hour or two, reading by lamplight,
writing letters or dictating them to an amanuensis, who takes them down rapidly in a form of
shorthand. Out in the streets the boys are on their way to school, the poorer ones carrying
their own lanterns--at least if it is the time of year when the days are short--their writing-tablets
and their reading-books, probably Virgil and Horace, who were standard authors serving in the
Roman schools as Shakespeare and Pope do in our own. Boys of well-to-do parents are accompanied
by an elderly slave of stern demeanour. In the distance are heard the sounds of the first hammers
and the cries of the venders of early breakfasts.

Silius rises, and with the help of a valet, who is of course a slave, dresses himself. His
household barber--another slave--shaves him, trims his hair in the approved style and cleans
his nails. At this date clean shaving was the rule. Every emperor from Augustus to Hadrian,
fifty years later than Nero, was clean shaven, and the fashion set by emperors was followed
as closely by the contemporary Roman as "imperials" and "ram's-horn" moustaches have been imitated
in later times. The hair was kept carefully neither too long nor too short. Only in time of
mourning was it permitted to grow to a negligent length. By preference it should be somewhat
wavy, but there was no parting. Dandies had their hair curled with the tongs and perfumed,
so at to smell "all over the theatre." If they were bald, they wore a wig; sometimes they actually
had imitation hair painted across the bare part of the scalp. If nature had given them the
wrong colour, they corrected it with dye. If the exposed parts of the body were hairy, they
plucked out the growth with tweezers or used depilatories. But these were the dandies, and
we need not assume Silius to have been one of them.

It is to be a day of some formality, and Silius will therefore attire himself accordingly.
In other words, he will put on the typical Roman garb. Of whatever else this may consist, it
will comprise a band round the middle, a woolen--less often a linen--tunic with or without
sleeves, and over this the voluminous woollen toga; on the feet will be shoes. Of further underwear
a Roman used as much or as little as he chose. If, like the Emperor Augustus, he felt the cold,
he might indulge in several shirts and also short hose. Such practices, however, were commonly
regarded as coddling. Breeches were worn at this date only by soldiers serving in northern
countries, where they had picked up the custom from the "barbarians." Mufflers were used by
persons with a tender throat.

Inasmuch as Silius is of senatorial rank, his tunic, which will show through the open front
of his toga, bears the broad inwoven stripe of purple running down the middle, and his shoes--which
otherwise might be of various colours, such as yellow with red laces--are black, fastened by
cross straps running somewhat high up the leg and bearing a crescent of silver or ivory upon
the instep. The stripe, the shoes, and the crescent mark his senatorial standing. That which
marks him as a citizen at all is the toga--an article of dress forbidden to any inhabitant
of the empire who could not call himself in the full sense "Civis Romanus." It was a cumbrous
and heavy garment (when spread out it formed an oval of about 15 feet by 12), with which no
man who wanted to work or travel or simply to be comfortable would hamper himself. St. Paul
was a Roman citizen, but, if he ever wore a toga at all, it would only be when he desired to
bring his citizenship home to a Roman court, and we should probably be quite mistaken in imagining
that he travelled about with a toga in his baggage, or, as the Authorised Version calls it,
his "carriage." When out of town, in his country-seat or when amusing himself at home in the
city, especially in the warmer weather, the Roman cast off his toga with a sigh of relief.
In the provincial towns of Italy, though theoretically as much in demand, this blanket-like
covering was little used by any man except on the most formal public and religious occasions,
and, as a poet says, "when dead," for then the toga was indispensable. Nevertheless at Rome
it was the necessary dress for all men of position when appearing in any sort of public life.
The Roman emperors insisted upon its use in all places of public amusement--the theatre, circus,
or amphitheatre. In a court of justice the president certainly could not "see" a pleader unless
he wore it. You cannot be present at a formal social ceremony--a wedding, a betrothal, a coming
of age, a levée--without this outward and visible mark of respect. Nor was it sufficient that
you should wear it. It must be properly draped and must fall to the right point, which, in
front, was aslant over the lower part of the shin, while behind it fell to the heel. Your wardrobe
slave must see that it has been kept properly folded and pressed. If you claimed to be a gentleman,
and were not in mourning and not an official, it must be simply and scrupulously white. Poorer
people might wear a toga of a duller or dark-grey wool, which would better conceal a stain
and require to go less frequently to the fuller. The same dull hue was also worn in time of
mourning, or as an ostentatious token of a gloomy spirit, as for example, when one of your
friends was in peril of condemnation in the law-courts, or when you fancied that some serious
injustice was being done or threatened to your social order. The only person privileged to
wear a toga of true purple was the emperor. On the whole the Roman dress was very simple; far
more so than in mediaeval times or the days of Elizabeth or Charles II. Velvet and satin were
not yet known, furs hardly so, and there were very few changes of fashion.

Silius will also wear at least one large signet-ring as well as his plain ring of gold, but
he will leave it to the dandies to load their fingers with half-a-dozen and to keep separate
sets for winter and summer. When Quintilian, in his Training of the Orator, touches upon the
subject of rings, he recommends as requisite for good form that "the hand should not be covered
with rings, and especially should they not come below the middle joint." A handkerchief will
be carried, but only to wipe away perspiration.

Having finished his dressing, he may choose this time for taking his morning "snack," corresponding
to the coffee and roll or tea and bread-and-butter of modern times. It is but a light repast
of wine or milk, with bread and honey, or a taste of olives or cheese or possibly an egg. Schoolboys
seem to have often eaten a sort of suet dumpling. In the strength of this meat our friend will
go till mid-day.

As he has no very early call to the imperial court upon the Palatine, he will now proceed to
hold his own reception of morning callers. For this purpose he will come out to the spacious
hall, which has been already described as the most essential part of a Roman house, and will
there establish himself in the opening of the recess or bay which has also been described as
a kind of reception-room or parlour. Before he arrives, the hall has been swept and polished
by the brooms and sponges of the slaves, under the direction of a foreman. The number of Silius'
household slaves is very great. Very many Romans of course owned no slave at all; many had
but one or two; but it was considered that a person of anything like respectable means could
hardly do with less than ten. Silius will probably employ several times that number. We have
mentioned the valet, the barber, the wardrobe-keeper, and the amanuensis. We must add to these
the cooks, the pastry-makers, the waiters, the room-servants, the doorkeeper, the footmen,
messengers, litter-carriers, the butler and pantrymen. Some of the superior slaves have drudges
of their own. The librarian, accountant, and steward are all slaves. Even the family physician
or architect may be a slave. Many of these men may be persons of education and talent. Their
one deficiency is that they are not free. Many of them are in colour and feature indistinguishable
from the people outside; most, however, show their origin in their foreign physique. They are
Phrygians, Cappadocians, Syrians, Jews, Egyptians, Ethiopians, Numidians, Spaniards, Gauls,
Germans, Thracians, and Greeks. Their master either inherited them from his father or friends,
or he bought them in the slave-market. For whatever reason they became slaves--whether as prisoners
of war, by birth, through debt, through condemnation for some offence, by kidnapping like that
practised by the Corsairs or the modern Arabs, or through being sold by their own parents--they
had become the Property of slave-dealers, who picked them up in the depots on the Black Sea
or at Delos or Alexandria, and brought them to Rome. There they were stripped and exposed for
sale, the choicer specimens in a select part of a fashionable shop, the more ordinary types
in the auction mart, where they were placed upon a stand or stone bench, were labelled with
their age, nationality, defects, and accomplishments, and were sold either under a guarantee
or without one. For an ordinary room-slave Silius, or his agent for him, has paid perhaps £20;
for a servant of more special skill, such as a particularly soft-handed barber, perhaps £50;
the price of a muleteer who was "too deaf to overhear private conversation in a carriage" might
thereby be enhanced to £150; for a slave with educational or artistic accomplishments--a good
reader, reciter, secretary, musician, or actor--he may have paid some hundreds. If he is a
man of morbid tastes, and affects a particular kind of dainty favourite, he may go as far as
a thousand. Curly-haired pages and amusing dwarfs are generally dear. It is the business of
the house-steward to see that each slave receives his daily or monthly rations of corn, a trifling
sum of money for other needs, and perhaps an allowance of thin wine. Many a slave also received
a considerable number of "tips" from guests, as well as perquisites and presents from his master.
With economy he was thus enabled to purchase his own freedom. The master might also in some
cases provide the slave with the essentials of his dress, to wit, a coarse tunic, a rough cloak,
and a pair of shoes or sabots.

Over all these persons, so long as they are slaves, the owner possesses absolute power. He
can box their ears, or condemn them to hard labour--making them, for instance, work in chains
upon his lands in the country or in a sort of prison-factory--or he may punish them with blows
of the rod, the lash, or the knout; he can brand them upon the forehead if they are thieves
or runaways, or in the end, if they prove irreclaimable, he can crucify them. Branded slaves
who afterwards became free and rich sought to conceal the marks by wearing patches. There were
inevitably some instances in which masters proved so intolerably cruel that their slaves were
driven to murder them. To prevent any conspiracy of the kind the law ordained that, when a
master was so killed, the slaves should one and all be put to death. It is gratifying to learn
that in the reign of Nero the whole populace sided with a body of slaves in this predicament
and prevented the law from being carried out.

But, being a typical Roman, Silius has a strong sense of justice; moreover he values public
opinion as well as his own. Also, being a typical Roman, he behaves with strictness and for
the most part with a distinct haughtiness of manner, graduated, no doubt, according to the
standing of the individual. When, as was often the case, he did not even know the name of a
slave whom he came across in hall or peristyle, he frequently addressed him as "Sirrah" or
"Sir" or "You, Sir." To the waiter at table and for ordinary commands, where the master affects
no ceremony, the commonest term is "boy," precisely as that word is used in the East or garçon
in French. If Silius knew the actual appellation assigned to the slave when bought and was
disposed to be kindly, he accosted him by it, calling him "Syrian," or "Thracian," or "Croesus,"
or by his proper Greek or Egyptian name. The slave, unlike the Roman citizen, owned but one
name, and the shorter the better.

We meet, as is only natural, with many examples of great trust and confidence between master
and slave, and, in the case of the superior types, no few instances of great kindness and consideration.
Pliny speaks of his "long friendship" for a cultivated slave named Zosimus, whom he set free,
and whom, because he was liable to consumption, he sent to Egypt and the Riviera for the good
of his health. A faithful or very useful slave could make tolerably sure of being some day
emancipated with all due form and ceremony, either during the master's lifetime or by his last
will and testament. In such a case he became a Roman citizen of the rank known as "freedman,"
and after the second generation there was nothing to prevent his descendants from aspiring
to any position open to any other Roman. Sometimes even his son attained to public office.
On attaining his citizenship the freedman became entitled to "the three names," and it was
the rule that he should adopt the family name of his master. A freedman of Silius is himself
a Silius. Also by preference he will be a Quintus Silius; but he will not be a Bassus. The
third name will still, for his own lifetime, be such as to mark him for what he is. Moreover,
though free, he is himself still bound to pay a dutiful respect to his former master's family,
but beyond this he is at his own disposal and in possession of every right in regard to person
and property. Many such men were extremely skilful in trade and made themselves rich enough
to vie with the Roman aristocracy in outward show. The freedmen of the Emperor, who occupied
positions of influence at court as chamberlains, stewards, private secretaries and the like,
and were the powers behind the throne, became enormously wealthy. Their houses were adorned
with the finest marble columns, the most richly gilded ceilings, and the most costly works
of art; the choicest fruits ripened under glass in their forcing-houses, and, when they died,
their monuments were among the most sumptuous by the side of the great highways. "Freedmen's
wealth" became a proverb. They were occasionally even appointed to those minor governorships
held by "agents" of Caesar, and the Felix of the New Testament was himself a freedman of Nero's
predecessor and brother to one of the richest and most influential of the class. In the provincial
cities of Italy freedmen, though they were not themselves eligible for the ordinary offices,
might in return for acts of munificence be admitted to what may be called an inferior grade
of knighthood--a sort of C.M.G.--styled the "Order of Augustus." They thus became notables
of their own town in a way of which they were sufficiently proud, as the Pompeian inscriptions
show. It was part of the shrewdness of Augustus to kill two birds with one stone, by erecting
a provincial order directly attached to the cult of the Emperor, and by encouraging the local
self-made man to spend money liberally upon the embellishment and comfort of his own municipality.

Well, Silius, meeting with or escorted by various slave attendants, passes from the inner rooms
through the passage into the hall and finds waiting for him a throng of visitors known as his
"clients" or dependants. The position of these persons is somewhat remarkable. They are commonly
free Roman citizens of the "genteel" middle class, who openly admit that they depend for the
bulk of their living upon the patronage of the noble or the rich. The custom arose from a very
old condition of things, under which certain classes of citizens, not being entitled to appear
in the law-courts or in public business on their own behalf, put themselves under the protection
of a person so entitled, who, in return for certain acts of support and deference, appeared
as their advocate and champion. At a later time, even though their rights had become complete,
men might still seek counsel, legal advice, and advocacy from a person of influence and eloquence.
In return they paid him the honour of escort in the streets, supported him in his candidature
for public office, applauded his speeches, and exercised on his behalf such influence as they
possessed. The standing of a prominent Roman was apt to be measured by the number and quality
of the persons thus attaching themselves to him. If next it is remembered that very few money-making
occupations were looked upon with favour by the Romans, and that the higher orders were for
the most part very rich, it will be obvious that there would grow up the custom of the patron
making liberal presents to his dependants--money gifts, or gifts of small properties and of
useful articles--as well as of inviting them to his table. The clients themselves brought little
presents on the patron's birthday or some other special occasion, but these were merely the
sprats to catch the whale. It gradually resulted that the patronage extended by the aristocrat
or plutocrat was mainly one of a direct pecuniary nature. As in other cases where a dubious
custom develops gradually, there ceased to be any shame in this relation. Many members of the
middle class, impoverished and earning practically no other income, lived the life of genteel
paupers. They would attend the morning reception of a grandee, either bringing with them, or
causing a slave to bring, a small basket, or even a portable cooking-stove, in which they carried
off doles of food distributed through his servants. The scene must have borne no slight resemblance
to that of the charity "soup-kitchen." In process of time, however, this practice became inconvenient
for all parties, and most of the patrons compounded for such doles by making a fixed payment,
still called the "little basket," amounting perhaps to a shilling in modern weight of money
for each day of polite attention on the part of a recognised "client." If a client was acknowledged
by more than one patron, so much the better for the amount of his "little baskets." In some
cases the dole was paid to each visitor at the morning call; in others only after the work
of the patron's day was done and when he had gone to the elaborate bath which preceded his
dinner in the later part of the afternoon. By this means the complimentary escort duty was
secured until that time.

Among the dependants were nearly all the genteel unemployed of Rome, including the Grub-Street
men of letters, who in those days could make little, if anything, by their books, and who therefore
sought the same kind of assistance as did our own literary rank and file in the early eighteenth
century. When we read the authors of the period we are inevitably reminded of Samuel Johnson
waiting in the ante-chamber of Lord Chesterfield, and of the flattering dedications of books
which were so liberally or illiberally paid for by the recipients of such compliments. From
his little flat, often a single room and practically an attic, in the tenement-house, the client
would emerge before daylight, dressed de rigueur in his toga, which was often sadly worn and
thin. He would make his way for a mile or more through the carts, the cattle, an the schoolboys,
sometimes in fine weather, sometimes through the rain and cold, when the streets were muddy
and slippery, and would climb the hill to his patron's door, joined perhaps on the way by other
citizens bent on the same errand. Gathering in that open space or vestibule which has already
been described, they waited for the janitor to open the door. If the doorkeeper of Silius was
like the generality of his kind, he would take a flunkey's pleasure in keeping them waiting,
and also, except in the case of those who had been wise enough to ease his manners with a "tip,"
or who were known to be in special favour, a flunkey's pleasure in exhibiting his contempt.
Brought into the hall, they stood or sat about and conversed until Silius appeared. Then, according
to an established order of precedence--which apparently depended on seniority of acquaintance,
while again it might be affected by a douceur--they were presented one by one to the patron.

One must not expect a Roman noble to deign always to remember the names of humble persons--sometimes
he actually did not--and therefore a slave, known as the "name-caller," announces each client
in turn. The client says, "Good morning, Sir," and Silius replies, "Good morning, So-and-So,"
or "Good morning, Sir," or simply "Good morning." There is a shaking of hands, or, if the patron
is a gracious gentleman and the client is of old standing, Silius may kiss him on the cheek
and offer some polite inquiry or remark. A very haughty person might merely offer his hand
to be kissed and perhaps not open his mouth at all, even if he condescended to look at you.
But these habits were hardly so characteristic of our times as of a somewhat later date.

The reception over, the client obtains information as to the movements of his patron during
the day. On the present occasion it appears that Silius himself is to proceed at once to pay
his own morning homage to a still higher patron, His Highness Nero, who is at home on the Palatine
Hill, and whose levée calls imperatively for the attendance of certain members of the aristocracy.
At the palace there exists a roll of persons known as the "friends of Caesar"--a roll which
depends solely on the favour of the emperor. Naturally it contains the names of a number of
the highest senators and of the chief officers of the state, but a place in it is not gained
simply by such positions, nor is it restricted to them. There may be a few knights and others
on the list. To be removed from the roll is to be socially a marked man and a person to be
avoided. Silius is, at least for the time being, one of the "friends." Nero is not yet in sufficient
financial straits to require that Silius should be squeezed or sacrificed, nor has he chosen
to take offence at something which a spy or informer has reported of him. Our friend therefore
enjoys the entrée to the palace, and to the palace he goes.

It is a clear fine morning, and he has plenty of time. He therefore perhaps elects to go on
foot. Learning this, a number of his clients form a procession. Some are honoured by walking
at his side, a few go in advance and so clear a way through the crowd--which is already moving
at the top of the Sacred Way--to the point where you turn off on the left and ascend to the
entrance to the Palatine Hill. Some of the clients will walk behind, where also will be a lackey
or two in waiting. On the way Silius may perhaps meet with Manlius, another noble, whom he
probably greets with "Good morning, brother," and a kiss upon the cheek. This kissing, it may
be remarked, ultimately became an intolerable nuisance, particularly among the middle classes,
and the epigrammatist, after complaining of the cold noses and wet osculations of the winter-time,
pleads to have the business at least put off till the month of April.

When it is a bad or sloppy day, Silius will decide to go in his litter, or Roman form of the
palanquin. Being a senator he may use this conveyance, otherwise at this date he could not.
There are also sedan chairs, but as yet there exists a prejudice against these as being somewhat
effeminate. At this decision four, six, or eight tall fellows, slaves from Cappadocia or Germany
by preference, clad in crimson liveries, thrust two long poles through the rings or the coloured
leather straps which are to be found on the sides of the litter, and place these poles upon
their shoulders. To all intents and purposes the litter is a couch with an arched roof above
it, of the shape here indicated, but covered with cushions, which are often stuffed with down.
Its woodwork is decorated with silver and ivory. The litter may either be carried open on all
sides, or with curtains of coloured stuffs partially drawn, or it may be enclosed by windows
of talc or glass. In the days when litters were in promiscuous use, persons who did not possess
one, or perhaps the slaves to bear it, might hire such a vehicle from the "rank," after the
modern manner of hiring a cab. In this receptacle Silius is carried amid the same procession
as before.

He will wear nothing on his head. On a journey, or when the sun was particularly strong in
the roofless theatre or circus, he might put on a broad-brimmed hat, very much like that of
the modern Italian priest. Instead of the hat it was common, when the weather so required,
either to draw a fold of the toga over the head or to wear a hood closely resembling the monkish
cowl. This might be either attached to a cloak or made separately for the purpose. The hood
was also employed when, particularly in the evening, the wearer had either public or private
reasons for concealing his identity as he moved abroad, commonly issuing in such cases from
his side door. But on an ordinary day, and when attending a ceremony, the Roman head is bare.
So also are the hands, for gloves are not yet in use.

On arriving at the palace--outside which there is generally standing a crowd of the curious
or the snobs--Silius passes through the guards, Roman or German, at the doors, is taken in
hand by the court slave or freedman who acts as usher, and himself goes through a process similar
to that which his own clients have undergone. There are times, and just now they may be frequent,
at which he will have to submit to a search, for fear he may be carrying a concealed weapon.
If he is high in favour or position, he belongs to the batch of "first admittance," or first
entrée. If not, he must be contented with "second." He will find that His Highness Nero, exacting
as he may be concerning the costume of his callers, will not trouble to put on his own toga,
as a more respectable emperor would have done, but will appear in anything he pleases, frequently
a tunic or a wrapper of silk, relieved only by a handkerchief round the neck. Nor will his
High Mightiness always condescend to lace his shoes. If he is in a good humour, he may bestow
the kiss, remember your name, and call you "my very dear Silius." If he has been accustomed
to do so, but omits the warmer greeting on this occasion, it may be taken as boding you no
good. It is, however, very probable that in this year 64 he will refuse the kiss to almost
every one of the senators, for he has already come openly to detest them. It will suffice if
he so much as offers his hand to be saluted. Caligula, being a "god," had sometimes offered
his foot, but only that crack-brained emperor had so far attempted this enormity.

The day happens to be one on which the emperor has nothing further to say and requires no advice.
Silius is therefore free to go his ways. There is also no meeting of the Senate, no festival,
chariot-race, or show of gladiators. He has therefore only the ordinary day before him, and
he proceeds, as practically every other caller does, towards the Forum and its neighbourhood.
If on his way he meets with a great public official--a consul or a praetor--proceeding on duty,
he politely makes way, and, if his head chances to be covered, he uncovers it. He loyally recognises
the claims of that toga edged with purple, and of those lictors walking in front with the symbolic
bundles of rods containing the symbolic axe. Whatever he may think of the men, he pays all
respect to their office. The Forum is now full, the banking and money-changing are all aglow
in the Basilica Aemilia, the loungers are playing their games of "three men in a row," or perhaps
their backgammon, on the pavement of the outer colonnade of the Basilica of Julius. Groups
are reading and discussing the columns of the "Daily News," which are either posted up or have
been purchased from the professional copiers. This is an official, and therefore a censored,
publication in clear manuscript, containing proclamations, resolutions of the senate, bulletins
of the court, results of trials, the births and deaths registered in the city, announcements
of public shows and sports, striking events, such as fires, earthquakes, and portents, and
occasional advertisements. Silius may perhaps stop and read; more probably his slaves regularly
purchase a copy for his private use. Criers are meanwhile bawling to you to come and see the
Asiatic giant, or the mermen, or the two-headed baby. The old sailor who has been wrecked,
or pretends to have been, is walking about with a harrowing picture of the scene painted on
a board and is soliciting alms. The busybody is gossiping among little knots of people and
telling, manufacturing, or magnifying the latest scandal, or the latest news from the frontier,
from Antioch, from the racing-stables, the law-courts, or the palace. Perhaps Silius has a
little banking business to do, and he enters the Basilica to give instructions as to sending
a draft to Athens or Alexandria in favour of some friend or relative there who is in want of
money, or whom he has instructed to make artistic or other purchases. In about seven days his
correspondent will obtain the cash through a banker at Athens, or in about twelve or fourteen
days at Alexandria.

Perhaps, however, one of his clients has asked for his help in a case at law, which is being
tried either over the way in the Basilica of Julius, or round the corner to the right in the
Forum of Augustus. If a man of study and eloquence, he may have consented to act as pleader--taking
no fee, because he is merely performing a patron's duty. Noblesse oblige. In the year 64 a
pleader who has taken up a cause for some one else than a dependant is allowed by law to charge
a fee not exceeding £100, but the law says nothing, or at least can do no thing, as to the
liberal presents which are offered him under some other pretext. If he is not to plead, Silius
may at any rate have been requested to lend moral support by seating himself beside the favoured
party and perhaps appearing as a witness to character. If he pleads in any complicated or technical
case, it will generally be after careful consultation with an attorney or professional lawyer.
Round the apse or recess in which the court sits there will stand a ring of interested spectators,
and among them will be distributed as many as possible of his own dependants, who will religiously
applaud his finely-turned periods and his witticisms. There was generally little chance of
missing a Roman forensic witticism; its character was for the most part highly elaborate and
its edge broad. In a later generation it was not rare for chance bystanders to be hired on
the spot as claqueurs. The court itself consists of a large body of jurymen of position empanelled,
not for the particular case, but for particular kinds of cases and for a period of time, and
over these there presides one of the public officials annually elected for the judicial administration
of Rome. The president sees that the proceedings are in accordance with the law, but the verdict
is given entirely by the jury.

If there is no need for Silius to attend such a court, he may find many other demands upon
his time. Among Romans of the higher classes etiquette was extremely exacting. Contemporaries
themselves complain that social "duties" or "obligations" frittered away a large proportion
of their day, and that they were kept perpetually "busy doing nothing." One man or woman is
making a will, and asks you to be one of the witnesses to the signature and sealing; another
is betrothing a son or daughter, and invites you to be present and attest the ceremony; another
has a son of fifteen or sixteen concerning whom it is decided that he has now come of age,
must put on the white toga of a man in the place of the purple-edged toga of the boy, and be
led into the Forum in token of his new freedom; you must not omit the courtesy of attending.
Another desires you to go with him before the magistrate while he emancipates a slave. Worst
of all, perhaps, is the man who has written a poem or declamation, and who proposes to read
it, or to get a professional elocutionist to read it, to his acquaintances. He has either hired
a hall or borrowed a convenient room from a friend, and you are kindly invited to be present.
We learn that these amateur authors did not permit their victims to forget the engagement,
but sent them more than one reminder. At the reading or recitation it was your duty to applaud
frequently, to throw complimentary kisses, and to exclaim in Greek, "excellent," "capital,"
"clever," "unapproachable," or "again," very much as we say "encore" in what we think is French,
or "bravo" in Italian. The native Latin terms most commonly in use may perhaps be translated
as "well said," "perfect," "good indeed," "divine," "a shrewd hit." On one occasion a certain
Priscus was present at the reading of a poem, and it happened to open with an invocation to
a Priscus. No sooner had the author begun, "Priscus, thou bidst me tell ..." than the man of
that name called out "Indeed I don't." This "caused laughter" and "cast a chill over the proceedings."
Pliny apologises for the man, as being a little light in the head, but he is manifestly tickled
all the same. It is scarcely a wonder that the Roman was glad to escape from all these formalities
of "toga'd Rome" to his country seat, or to the freer life of Baiae.

His business in the Forum accomplished, Silius returns to his house on the Caelian. As, on
the slope of the Sacred Way, he passes the rich shops of the jewellers, florists, and perfumers,
he may be tempted to make some purchase, which the attendant slaves will carry to the house.
Arrived there, he will take his luncheon, a fairly substantial though by no means a heavy meal.
He may perhaps be a married man. If nothing has yet been said about his wife, it is because
in the higher Roman households the husband and wife owned their separate property, lived their
own lives, and were almost equally free to spend their time in their own way, since marriage
at this date was rather a contract than a union. If, however, he is a benedict, it is probable
that at this meal the family will meet, no outside company being present. Silius himself reclines
on a couch, the children are seated, and the wife may adopt either attitude. After this our
friend will probably take a siesta, precisely as he might take it in Italy to-day. The practice
was indeed not universal; nevertheless it was general. He will not go to bed, but will sleep
awhile upon a couch in some quiet and darkened room. If he cannot sleep, or when he wakes,
he may perhaps read or be read to. Where he will spend the afternoon till the bath and dinner
is a matter of his own choice. The afternoon is growing chilly, and, as he has no further ceremonial
to undergo, he will probably throw over his toga a richly coloured mantle--violet, amethyst,
or scarlet--to be fastened on the shoulder with a buckle or brooch. In very cold weather, especially
when travelling, Romans of all classes would wear a thick cloak, somewhat like the cape worn
by a modern policeman or cab-driver, or perhaps more closely resembling the poncho of Spanish
America. This, which consisted of some strong and as nearly as possible waterproof stuff, had
no opening at the sides, but was put on by passing the head through a hole. To-day Silius puts
on the coloured mantle, and gets himself carried across the Forum, through the gap between
the Capitoline and Quirinal Hills, and into the Campus Martius, somewhere about the modern
Piazza Venezia and the entrance to the Corso. Here he may descend from his litter, and purchase
a statuette, or a vessel of Corinthian bronze or silver, or an attractive table with the true
peacock markings, or a handsome slave. While doing so, he may find amusement in observing a
pretender who "shops" but does not buy, wearying the dealers by pricing and disparaging the
costliest tables and most artistic vessels, and ending with the purchase of a penny pot which
he carries home himself. He may then stroll along under the pictured and statued colonnades,
perhaps offering the cold shoulder to various impecunious toadies who are there on the look-out
for an invitation to dinner, perhaps succumbing to their blandishments. His lackeys are of
course in attendance, and clients are still about him. In passing he is greeted by some person
who is hanging officiously round a litter containing an elderly lady or gentleman, and whom
he recognises as what was called an "angler"--that is to say, one whose business is to wheedle
gifts or a legacy out of childless people of wealth. This was a regular profession and extremely
lucrative when well managed.

A little further, and he stops to look at the young men curvetting and wheeling on horseback
over the riding-ground. Away in the distance others are swimming backwards and forwards across
the Tiber. Or he steps into an enclosure, commonly connected with the baths, where not only
young men, but their seniors, even of high rank, are engaged in various exercises. Some of
them are stripped and are playing a game with a small hard ball, which is struck or thrown,
and smartly caught or struck onward by right or left hand equally, from the three corners of
a triangle. Some are playing with a larger and lighter article, something like a football stuffed
with feathers, which seems to have been punched about by the fist in a way calling for considerable
judgment and practice. Others are jumping with dumb-bells in each hand, or they are running
races, or hurling a disk of stone, or wrestling. Yet others are practising all manner of sword
strokes with a heavy wooden weapon against a dummy post, merely to exercise themselves keep
down their flesh.

Probably Silius will himself take a hand in the three-cornered game, unless he possesses a
private court at home and is intending to take his bath there instead of in one of the larger
public or semi-public establishments. Whether he bathes in the baths of Agrippa at the back
of the Pantheon, or in those of Nero, or in his own, the process will be much the same. The
arrangements are practically uniform however great may be the differences of sumptuousness
and spaciousness. We have not indeed yet reached the times of those huge and amazing constructions
of Caracalla and Diocletian, but there is no reason to doubt that the existing public baths
were already of much magnificence. Regularly we should first find a dressing-room with painted
walls, a mosaic floor, and glass windows, and provided with seats, as well as with niches in
the walls to hold the clothes. Adjoining this is a "cold" room, containing a large swimming-bath.
Next comes a "warm" chamber, with water heated to a sufficient and reasonable degree, and with
the general temperature raised either by braziers or by warm air circulating under the floor
or in the walls. After this a "hot" room, with both a hot swimming-bath and a smaller marble
bath of the common domestic shape--though of much larger size--provided with a shower, or rather
with a cold jet. Lastly there is a domelike sweating-chamber filled with an intense dry heat.
The public baths built by Nero were particularly notorious for their high temperature. After
the bath the body was rubbed over with perfumed oil, in order to close the pores against the
cold, and then was scraped down with the hollow sickle-shaped instrument of bronze or iron
depicted in the illustration. The other articles there shown are a vessel containing the oil,
and a flat dish into which to pour it for use. These, together with linen towels, were brought
by your own slave.

Silius is now carried home, and as it is approaching four o'clock, he dresses, or is dressed,
for dinner. His toga and senatorial walking-shoes are thrown off, and he puts on light slippers
or house-shoes, and dons what is called a "confection" of light and easy material--such as
a kind of half-silk--and of bright and festive colours. Some ostentatious diners changed this
dress several times during the course of a protracted banquet, giving the company the benefit
of as great a variety of "confections" as is afforded by a modern star actress in the theatre.
If the days are long and it is suitable weather, he may perhaps dine in the garden at the back
of the peristyle. Otherwise in the dining-room the three couches mentioned in a previous chapter
(FIG. 48) are arranged along three sides of a rectangle. Their metal and ivory work gleams
brightly, and they are resplendent with their embroidered cushions. In the middle of the enclosed
space shines the polished table, whether square or round. The sideboard is laden with costly
plate; the lamps are, or soon will be, alight upon their tall shafts or hanging from their
chains; the stand for the carver is awaiting its load. The dining-room steward and his subordinates
are all in readiness.

At the right time the guests arrive, endeavouring to show neither undue eagerness by being
too early nor rudeness by being too late. Each brings his own footman to take off his shoes
and to stand behind him, in case he may be needed, though not to wait at table, for this service
belongs to the slaves of the house. After they have been received by the host, the "name-caller"
leads them to their places, according to such order of precedence as Silius chooses to pre-arrange.
The regular number of guests for the three couches will be nine--the number of the Muses--or
three to each couch. To squeeze in more was regarded as bad form. If the crescent couch and
the large round table are to be used the number may be either six or seven. The position of
Silius himself as host will be regularly that marked H on the plan, while the position of honour--occupied
by a consul if one be present--will be that marked C.

Each guest throws himself as easily as possible into a reclining attitude, resting his left
elbow on the cushion provided for the purpose. He has brought his own napkin, marked with a
purple stripe if he is a senator, and this he tucks, in a manner still sufficiently familiar
on the continent of Europe, into upper part of his attire. Bread is cut and ready, but there
are no knives and forks, although there is a spoon of dessert size and also one with a smaller
bowl and a point at the other end of the handle for the purpose of picking out the luscious
snail or the succulent shell-fish. The dainty use of fingers well inured to heat was necessarily
a point of Roman domestic training.

There have been many--perhaps too many--descriptions of a Roman dinner, but the tendency, especially
with the novelist, is to exaggerate grossly the average costliness and gluttony of such banquets.
Undoubtedly there were such things as "freak" dinners almost as absurd as those of the inferior
order of American plutocrat. Undoubtedly also there was often a detestable ostentation of reckless
expenditure. But we are endeavouring to obtain a fair view of representative Roman practice,
and must put out of our minds all such vagaries as those of the ceiling opening and letting
down surprises, or of dishes composed of nightingales' tongues and flamingoes' brains. These
were always, as a later writer calls them, "the solecisms of luxury." Nero himself, or rather
the ministers of the vulgar pleasures which he regarded as those of artistic genius, devised
an abundance of such expensive follies and surprises, but we must not permit the professional
satirist or Stoic moralist to delude us into believing them typical of Roman life. Praise of
the "simple life" and the simple past is no new thing. It is extremely doubtful whether at
an ordinary Roman dinner-party there was any such lavish luxury as to surpass that of a modern
aldermanic banquet. We can hardly blame the people who could afford it for obtaining for their
tables the best of everything produced around the Mediterranean Sea, any more than we blame
the modern citizen of London or New York for obtaining the choicest foods and dainties from
a much wider world. Doubtless a Roman dinner too often meant over-eating and over-drinking,
and doubtless neither the ordinary table manners nor the ordinary table conversation would
recommend themselves to us. The same might be said of our own Elizabethan age. But any one
intimately acquainted with Latin literature as a whole, and not merely with the more savoury
passages commonly selected, will necessarily incline to the belief that novelistic historians
have too often been taking what was exceptional, eccentric, and strongly disapproved by contemporaries,
for the usual and the normal. If we read about Romans swallowing emetics after gorging themselves,
so that they might begin eating afresh, we may feel both disgust and pity, but we must not
imagine such a practice to have been a national habit.

The dinner regularly consisted of three divisions: a preliminary course of hors d'oeuvres,
the dinner proper, and a sort of enlarged dessert. It might or might not be accompanied or
followed by various entertainments, and closed by a protracted course of wine-drinking. All
would depend upon the tastes of the host and the nature of the company. The meal, it may be
mentioned, begins with an invocation corresponding to our grace. The hors d'oeuvres are taken
in the shape of shell-fish, such as oysters and mussels, snails with piquant sauce, lettuce,
radishes and the like, eggs, and a taste of wine tempered with honey.

Next comes the dinner proper, commonly divided into three services, comprising a considerable
choice of fish (particularly turbot, flounder, mullet, and lampreys), poultry and game (from
chicken, duck, pigeon, and peacock, to partridges, pheasants, ortolans, and fieldfares), hare,
joints of the ordinary meats, as well as of wild boar and venison, a kind of haggis, a variety
of the vegetables most familiar to modern use, mushrooms, and truffles. There is abundant,
and to our taste excessive, use of seasonings, not only of salt, vinegar, and pepper, but of
oil, thyme, mint, ginger, and the like, The pièce de résistance--a wild boar, or whatever it
may be--regularly arrives as the middle of the three services. The substantial meal ends with
a small offering to the household deities. After this follows the dessert, consisting of fresh
and dried fruits, and of cakes and sweet-meats artistically composed.

During the dinner a special feature is made of the artistic arrangement of the various viands
upon the large trays or stands from which the guest makes his choice, for the several dishes
belonging to one course were not brought separately to table. In full view of the guests the
professional carver exhibits his dexterity with much demonstration of grace and rapidity, and
well-dressed and neat-fingered slaves render the necessary service. Of plates and dishes of
various shapes and purposes, silver and silver-gilt, there is great profusion.

The conversation meanwhile depends upon the company. Sometimes it turns upon the chariot-races
and the chances of the "Red" or "Green"; sometimes it is social gossip and scandal. If the
guests are of a graver cast of mind, it may be concerned with questions of art and literature,
or even philosophy. The Roman particularly affected encyclopaedic information, and frequently
posted himself with such miscellaneous matter derived from a salaried domestic philosopher
or savant--commonly, of course, a Greek. But upon politics in any real sense conversation will
either not turn at all, or else very cautiously, at least until some one has drunk more than
is good for him. It is only too easy to drop some remark which may be construed into an offence
to the emperor, and there are too many ears among the slaves, and perhaps too many among the
guests, to permit of any risk in that direction. In some rather serious companies a professional
reader or reciter entertained the diners with interesting passages of poetry or prose; before
others there might be a performance of scenes from a comedy. At times vocal and instrumental
music was discoursed by the domestic minstrels; or persons, generally women, were hired to
play upon the harp, lyre, or double flageolet. Such performances would also be carried on during
the carousal which often followed deep into the night, and to these may be added posture-dances
by girls from Cadiz, juggling and acrobatic feats, and other forms of "variety" entertainment.
Dicing in public, except at the chartered Saturnalian festival, was illegal--a fact which did
not, of course, prevent it from being practised---but it was permitted in private gatherings
like this, provided that ostensibly no money was staked. The dice are rattled in a tower-like
box and are thrown upon a special board or tray. You may play "for love," or, as the Romans
called it, "for the best man," or you may play for forfeits. Naturally the forfeits became
in practice, in spite of the law, sums of money. The best possible throw is called "Venus,"
the worst possible "the dog." A sort of draughts or of backgammon may be preferred at more
quiet times of social intercourse; but a game like "head or tail," called in Latin "heads or
ships," was a game for the vulgar.

If it was decided to indulge in a prolonged carousal in form, heads were wreathed with garlands
of roses, violets, myrtle, or ivy; lots were cast for an "umpire of the drinking," and he decided
both how much wine--Falernian, Setine, or Massic--should be drunk, and in what degree it should
be mixed with water. A large and handsome mixing-bowl stands in the dining-hall. From this
the wine is drawn by a ladle holding about as much as a sherry-glass, and a certain number
of such "glasses" are poured into each cup according to the bidding of the umpire. While being
poured into the "mixer" the wine is passed through a strainer and in the hot weather the strainer
would be filled with snow brought down from the nearest mountains and artificially preserved.
Healths were drank in as many "glasses" as the name contained letters; absent ladies were toasted
in a similar way; and at some hour or other guests asked their footmen for their shoes and
cloaks, and departed to their homes under the escort of attendants, who carried the torches
or lanterns and were ready to deal with possible footpads and garroters, if any were lurking
in the unlighted streets for pedestrians less wary or less protected. The "Mohawks" also will
let them alone, and perhaps their homeward way may be entertained by the sounds of serenaders
at the door of some beautiful Chloe or Lydia on the Upper Sacred Way or near the Subura.

It is not, however, to be supposed that every evening meal, even of a noble, took the form
of a dinner-party. It is indeed probable that there were few occasions upon which, while in
town, he was not either entertaining visitors or being himself entertained. Occasionally there
would be an invitation to dine at Court, where perhaps eighty or a hundred guests of both sexes,
distributed in different sets of nine or seven over the wide banquet-hall, would eat off gold
plate, and be entertained from three or four o'clock till midnight with all the unbridled extravagance
that a Petronius or some other "arbiter of taste" might devise for the Caesar. The snob of
the period set an enormous value upon this distinction. The emperor could not always review
his list of invitations, nor could he on every occasion be personally acquainted with every
guest. It was therefore quite possible for his servants now and then to smuggle in a person
ambitious of having dined at the palace. Under Caligula a rich provincial once paid nearly
£2000 for such an "invitation." When the emperor found it out, he was, if anything, rather
flattered; the next day he caused some worthless trifle to be sold to the same man for the
same amount, and on the strength of this acquaintance invited him to dinner, this time pocketing
the money for himself.

Yet there must have been no few evenings upon which Silius preferred the company of an intimate
friend or two, making all together the "number of the graces," and dined with less form and
ceremony. At such times the meal would be of comparatively short duration, and there would
be deeper and more intimate matter of conversation. Now and then the dinner would be purely
domestic; and, after it, Silius would perhaps pass an hour or two in reading, or in listening
to the slave who was his professional "reader." If he was himself an author, as an astonishing
number of his contemporaries actually were, he might spend the time in preparing a speech,
composing some non-committal epic or drama, jotting down memoranda for a history, or concocting
an epigram or satire to embody his humorous fancies or to relieve his exasperation. If, as
was often the case, he kept in the house a salaried Greek philosopher--in a large measure the
analogue of the domestic chaplain of the later seventeenth century--he might enjoy his conversation
and pick his brains; or, if a man of real earnestness of purpose, discuss with him the tenets
of his particular philosophy, Stoic, Epicurean, or Eclectic. This was the nearest approach
which the ancient Roman made to what we should call theological or religious argument.

On other days a patron would naturally entertain a number of his clients at dinner, and on
no occasion would he be better able to show how much or how little he was a gentleman in the
modern sense of the term. It is not merely from the satirist that we learn how discourteous
the Roman grandee might be at his own table if he chose. It was no uncommon thing for a patron
to set before these humbler guests dishes or portions of dishes markedly inferior to those
which were offered to himself and to any aristocrat whom he had placed near him. In this sense
the client was often made to feel very distinctly that he was "sitting below the salt." While
the mellowest Setine or Falernian wine was poured into the patron's own jewelled goblet of
gold or silver or crystal, his client might be drinking from thick glass or earthenware the
poorer stuff grown on the Sabine Hills. The fish presented to Silius and his "brother" noble
might be a choice turbot, and the bird might be pheasant, while Proculus the client must be
content with pike from the Tiber and the common barndoor fowl. The later satirist Juvenal presents
us with inimitable pictures of the hungry dependants at the table of their "king," waiting
"bread in hand" (like the sword drawn for the fray) to see what fortune would send them. On
the other hand there were, of course, patrons who made no such distinctions. The younger Pliny,
who was himself a gentleman almost in the modern sense--if we overlook a too frequent tendency
to contemplate his own undeniable virtues--writes a letter to a young friend in the following
terms: "I need not go into details as to how I came to be dining with a person with whom I
am by no means intimate. In his own eyes he combined elegance with economy; in mine he combined
meanness with extravagance. The dishes set before himself and a few others were of the choicest;
those supplied to the rest were poor scraps. There was the same difference in his wine, which
was of three kinds. The intention was not to offer a choice, but to prevent the right of refusing.
One kind was for himself and us; another for his less important friends (for his friends are
graded); another for his and our freedmen. My next neighbour noticed this, and asked me if
I approved of it. I said 'No!' 'Well,' said he, 'what is your own practice?' 'I treat every
one alike, for I invite people to a dinner, not to an insult, and when they share my table
I let them share everything.' 'Your freedmen as well?' 'Yes, at such times I regard them as
guests, not as freedmen.' At this he said, 'It costs you a good deal?' 'Not at all.' 'How can
that be?' 'Because it is not a case of their drinking the same wine as I do, but of my drinking
the same wine as they do.'" The letter is perhaps nearly half a century later than our chosen
period, but there is no reason to think that manners had undergone any great change in the
interval.

CHAPTER XIV

LIFE IN THE MIDDLE AND LOWER CLASSES

Silius was a noble, with a nobleman's privileges and also his limitations. The class next in
rank below his consisted of the "knights," of whom something has already been said. It will
be remembered that these men of the "narrow stripe" were the higher middle class, who conducted
most of the greater financial enterprises of Rome and the provinces. While the senatorial order
could govern the important provinces, command legions, possess large estates, and derive revenues
from them, but could make money in other ways only through the more or less concealed agency
of knights or their own freedmen, the knights were free to act as bankers, money-lenders, tax-farmers,
and merchants or contractors in a large way, and to take charge of such third-rate provinces
as the Caesar might think fit to entrust to them. Money-lending at Rome was an extremely profitable
business. Not only was the nobleman often extravagant in his tastes, but when once elected
to a public position he was practically compelled to spend money lavishly in giving shows and
exhibitions of the kind which will be described immediately, or upon some public building,
or otherwise. In consequence he often incurred heavy debts. Meanwhile the smaller traders and
agriculturists, who were in competition with slave-labour and other false economic conditions,
to say nothing of bad seasons, were frequently in the hands of the usurers. Though efforts
were repeatedly made to check exorbitant rates of interest, they were apparently quite as ineffectual
as with us. An almost standard charge was at the rate of one-twelfth of the loan, or 8-1/3
per cent, but another common rate was that of one per cent per month. Rates both higher and
lower are known to us from particular cases. Naturally the question depended on the security,
when it did not depend upon the greed of the one side and the ignorance of the other. Much,
however, of what the books call money-lending was only what we should consider legitimate banking.
Be this as it may, the knights made large fortunes from the practice. They were also the tax-farmers,
who operated in the case of those imposts which were still left indirect. The practice was
to make an estimate of the amount of such a tax derivable from a province, to purchase it from
the government at as large a margin of profit as possible, and so relieve the state of the
trouble and cost of collecting it. For this purpose "companies" were formed, with what we should
call a "legal manager" at Rome. The managers would bid at auction for the tax, pay the purchase-money
into the treasury, and proceed to get in the tax through local managers and agents in the provinces
concerned. It has already been explained that the more important taxation of the empire was
at this date direct--a community in Gaul, Spain, Asia Minor, or Syria knowing what its assessment
was, taking its own measures, and using its own native or local collectors. The knights at
Rome might still advance sums to such communities, but they were not in this case tax-farmers.
It is unfortunate that the word "publicans"--bracketed with "sinners"--is used in the New Testament
translation for the local collectors like St. Matthew. Not only does the word convey either
no notion or a wholly incongruous one to the ordinary reader, but it is apt to mislead those
who know its origin. Because the financial companies at Rome, in purchasing the taxes, were
taking up a public contract, they were called publicani. But it is not these men who were themselves
acting as petty collectors--in any case they had nothing to do with the native collectors appointed
by the communities--and it is not these who enjoyed an immediate association with "sinners."
The fact is that the Latin word applied to the great tax-farming companies, who were acting
for Rome, was afterwards transferred to even the smallest collecting agent with opportunities
for extortion and harshness.

The stratum of Roman society below the knights was extremely composite. The slaves, of course,
are not included. They have no right to the Roman "toga," nor may they even wear the conical
Roman cap, except at the Saturnalia, when everything is deliberately topsy-turvy. Omitting
these, we may roughly divide the rest, as the Romans themselves divided them, into "people"
and "rabble." The rabble are either persons without regular occupation, or lazzaroni, sheer
idlers, loafers, and beggars. Doubtless many of them would execute an errand or carry a parcel
for a small copper, otherwise they would be found hanging about the public squares, lounging
on the steps or in the precincts of public buildings, such as temples, basilicas, porticoes,
and baths, and playing at what the Italians call morra--a more clever and tricky species of
"How many fingers do I hold up?"--or at "Heads or Tails." The poor of ancient Rome, like those
of modern Italy, could subsist on very plain and simple food. Water, with a dash of wine when
it could be got--and apparently at this date wine cost less than a penny a quart--and porridge
or bread, however coarse, would suffice, so long as there were amusements, sunshine, and no
need to work. Every considerable city of the empire round the Mediterranean would doubtless
contain its proportion of such "lewd fellows of the baser sort," but it was naturally the imperial
city that contained by far the most. Rome was by no means the only city in which doles of free
corn were made and free spectacular exhibitions given. But in other places the distributions
were occasional and depended on the bounty of local men of wealth or ambition, whereas at Rome
the dole was regular, and the spectacles frequent and splendid. Rome was the capital, and the
abode of the emperor. It claimed the privileges of the Mistress City, including the enjoyment
of the surplus revenues. Policy also demanded that the rabble should be kept quiet by "bread
and games."

It is for these reasons that the names of some 200,000 citizens stood upon a list to receive
each month an allowance of corn--apparently between six and seven bushels--at the expense of
the imperial treasury. This quantity they took away and made into bread as best they could.
In many cases doubtless they sold it to the bakers and others. It must be added that, apart
from the free distribution, the imperial stores contained quantities of grain which could always
be purchased at a low rate. Occasionally a dole of money was added; in one case Nero gave over
£2 per man. Meanwhile there was water in abundance to be had for nothing, brought by the carefully
kept aqueducts into numerous fountains conveniently placed throughout the city. While, however,
we must recognise that the number of idlers was very large, we must be careful not to exaggerate.
It is absurd to assume, as some have done, that because 200,000 citizens are receiving free
corn there are 200,000 unemployed. The Roman emperors never intended to put a premium on laziness,
but only to deal with poverty. In order to receive your dole of corn it was not necessary to
show that you were starving, but only that you were entitled, or in other words, on the list.
It is also a mistake to think that any chance arrival among the Roman olla podrida could claim
his bushel and a half of corn a week. In any case only Roman citizens could participate. All
the poorest workers, whether actually employed or not, could take their corn with the rest.
Nor must we forget that among the unemployed there were a considerable number who were, for
one reason or another, only temporarily out of work. Nevertheless, it requires no study of
political economy to know, nor were Roman statesmen blind to see, that the best way to make
men cease to work is to show them that they can live, however shabbily, without. The really
surprising thing is perhaps that the Roman government, with its immense funds and resources,
stopped short where it did. An unsound economic system had brought about difficult conditions,
with which the emperors and their advisers dealt as best they could.

It was inevitable that among so numerous a pampered rabble, and so many impoverished aliens
who tried their fortunes in the capital, there should be beggars in considerable numbers. We
cannot tell precisely how many they were. You might find them on the bridges, where they marked,
as it were, a "stand" for themselves and crouched on a mat, or at the gates, or wherever carriages
must proceed slowly on the highroads near the city, as for instance up the slope of the Appian
Way as it passed over the south-western spur of the Alban Hills. Other towns would be infested
in the same manner. Nor were thieves and footpads wanting in the streets or highwaymen upon
the roads, especially in the lonelier parts near the marshes between Rome and the Bay of Naples.
The city was, indeed, liberally policed, but Roman streets, as we have seen, were for the most
part narrow, crooked, and unlighted at night. As usual, it was the comparatively poor who suffered
from the street robber; the rich, with their torches and retinue, could always protect themselves.

After the "rabble" we will take the "people" in the sense current at this date. We must begin
by adjusting our notions somewhat. The Romans made no such clear distinction as we do between
trades and professions. To perform work for others and to receive pay for it is to be a hireling.
Painters, sculptors, physicians, surgeons, and auctioneers are but more highly paid and more
pleasantly engaged hirelings. Only so far do they differ from sign-painters, masons, undertakers,
or criers. No doubt the theory broke down somewhat in practice, yet such is the theory. That
which in our day constitutes a "liberal" profession--a previous liberal education and a high
code of professional etiquette--can hardly be said to have existed in the case of corresponding
professions at Rome. If the liberality departs from our own professional education and the
etiquette is relaxed, we shall presumably revert to the same state of things. A surgeon was
commonly a "sawbones," and a physician a compounder and prescriber of more or less empirical
drugs. Their knowledge and skill were by no means contemptible, and their instruments and pharmacopoeia
were surprisingly modern. Among the Greeks and Orientals their social standing was high, but
at Rome, where they were chiefly foreigners, for the most part Greeks, the old aristocratic
exclusiveness kept them in comparatively humble estimation, however large might be their fees
in the more important cases. Something will be said later as to the state of science and knowledge
in the Roman world. For the present it is sufficient to note that artist, medical man, attorney,
schoolmaster, and clerk belong theoretically to the common "people," along with butchers, bakers,
carpenters, and potters.

Setting aside the aristocratic and wealthy classes on the one hand, and the pauperised class
on the other, we have lying between them the workers, whether native Romans or the emancipated
slaves, who are now citizens known as "freedmen." To these we must add the rather shabby genteel
persons whom we have already described as "clients." Among workers are found men and women
of all the callings most familiar to ourselves, with one exception. They do not include domestic
servants. Romans who could afford regular servants kept slaves. It 18 true that occasionally
one of the poorer citizens, even a soldier on furlough, might perform some menial task connected
with a household, such as hewing wood or carrying burdens; but such services were regarded
as "servile." With this exception there is scarcely an occupation in which Roman citizens did
not engage. In such work they often had to compete with slave-labour. It is probable, doubtless,
that the greater proportion of the slave body were employed as domestic servants. But many
others tilled the lands of the larger proprietors. Others laboured under the contractors who
constructed the public works. Others were used as assistants in shops and factories. It is
obvious that such competition reduced the field of free labour, when it did not close it entirely,
and the free labour must have been unduly cheapened. But to suppose that all the Roman work,
whether in town or country, was done by slaves is to be grossly in the wrong. Romans were to
be found acting as ploughmen and herdsmen, workers in vineyards, carpenters, masons, potters,
shoemakers, tanners, bakers, butchers, fullers, metal-workers, glass-workers, clothiers, greengrocers,
shopkeepers of all kinds. There were Roman porters, carters, and wharf-labourers, as well as
Roman confectioners and sausage-sellers. To these private occupations must be added many positions
in the lower public or civil service. There was, for example, abundant call for attendants
of the magistrates, criers, messengers, and clerks. Unfortunately our information concerning
all this class is very inadequate. The Roman writers--historians, philosophers, rhetoricians,
and poets--have extremely little to say about the humble persons who apparently did nothing
to make history or thought. They are mentioned but incidentally, and generally without interest,
if not with some contempt, except where a poet is choosing to glorify the simple life and therefore
turns his gaze on the frugal peasantry, who doubtless did, in sober fact, retain most of the
sturdy old Roman spirit. About the soldiers we know much, and not a little about the schoolmasters.
The connection of the one occupation with history and of the other with authors will account
for this fact. Something will be said of the army and also of the schools in their special
places. Keepers of inns are not rarely in evidence in the literature of satire and epigram,
and no language seems too contemptuous for their alleged dishonesty. But of inns enough has
been said. We learn that the booksellers made money out of the works of which they caused their
slaves to make copies, and which they sold in "well got up" style for four shillings, or, in
the case of slender volumes, for as little as fourpence-halfpenny. But to this day we do not
know how much profit an author drew from the bookseller, or how it was determined, or whether
he drew any at all. It is most reasonable to suppose that he sold a book straight out to the
publisher for what he could get. Otherwise it is hard to see how any check could be kept upon
the sales. The only occupation upon which literature offers us systematic information is agriculture,
including the pasturing of cattle and the culture of the vine. For the rest we derive more
knowledge from the excavations of Pompeii than from any other source. From actual shops and
their contents, from pictures illustrating contemporary life, and from inscriptions and advertisements,
we are enabled to reconstruct some picture of commercial and industrial operations. We can
see the fuller, the baker, the goldsmith, the wine-seller, and the wreath-maker at their work.
We can discern something of the retail trade in the Forum; or we can see the auctioneer making
up his accounts.

The baker, for example, was his own miller. There are still standing the mills, with the upper
stone--a hollow cylinder with a pinched waist--capable of revolving upon the under stone and
letting the flour drop into the rim below. Into the holes in the middle of the upper or "donkey"
stone, and across the top, were fixed wooden bars, which were either pushed by men or drawn
by asses yoked to them. The oven is still in place, and, charred as they are, we are quite
familiar with the round flat loaves shaped and divided like a large "cross" bun. The dough
was kneaded by a vertical shaft with arms revolving in a receptacle, from the sides of which
other arms projected inwards, so that there was little room for the dough to be squeezed between
them. We have pictures of the fuller, to whom the woollen garments--the togas and tunics, and
the mantles of the women--were regularly sent to be washed by treading in vats, to be beaten,
stretched, and bleached with sulphur, and to have their naps raised with a comb or a bunch
of thorns. The goldsmith is depicted at his furnace or his anvil. The garland-makers are at
work fastening the blossoms or petals on a ribbon or a tough strip of lime-bark. Dealers in
other goods are showing the results of their labour to customers, who carefully examine them
by eye, touch, and smell. The tablets containing the receipts for sales and rents still exist
as they were found in the house of the shrewd-looking Jucundus the auctioneer. They formally
acknowledge the receipt of such-and-such sums realised at an auction, "minus commission," although
unfortunately they do not happen to tell us how much the commission was. We see the venders
of wine filling the jars for customers from the large wine-skin in the waggon. In conclusion
to this subject it should be observed that all manner of descriptive signs were in use; and
just as one may still see a barber's pole or a gilt boot in front of a shop, or a painted sign
at a public-house, so one might see the representation of a goat at the door of a milk-vender,
or of an eagle or elephant at the door of an inn.

Meanwhile out in the country we can perceive the farm, with its hedges of quick-set, its stone
walls, or its bank and ditch. The rather primitive plough--though not always so primitive as
it was a generation or so ago in Italy--is being drawn by oxen, while, for the rest, there
are in use nearly all the implements which were employed before the quite modern invention
of machinery. It may be remarked at this point that the rotation of crops was well understood
and regularly practised. Then there are the pasturelands, on the plains in the winter, but
in summer on the hills, to which the herdsmen drive their cattle along certain drove-roads
till they reach the unfenced domains belonging to the state. There they form a camp of huts
or wigwams under a "head man," and surround their charges with strong fierce dogs, whose business
it is to protect them, not only from thieves, but also from the wolves which were then common
on the Apennines--where, indeed, bears also were to be met. There was no want of occupation
in the country in the time of haymaking, of the vintage, or of olive-picking. Even the city
unemployed could gather a bunch of grapes or pick an olive, just as they can with us, or just
as the London hop-picker can take a holiday and earn a little money in Kent. In the vineyards,
where the vines commonly trailed upon low elms and other trees, various vegetables grew between
the rows, as they still do about Vesuvius; on the hills were olive-groves, which cost almost
nothing to keep in order, and which supplied the "butter" and the lamp-oil of the Mediterranean
world.

We need not waste much compassion upon the life of the Roman working class. It is true that
there was then no doctrine of the "dignity of labour," but that there was reasonable pride
taken in a trade reputably maintained is seen from the frequent appearance of its tools upon
a tombstone. In respect of the mere enjoyment of life, the labourers, of the Roman world were,
so far as we can gather, tolerably happy. They had abundant holidays, mostly of religious origin;
but, like our own, so frequently added to, and so far diverted from religious thoughts, that
they were more marked by jollity and sport than by any solemnity of spirit. The workmen of
a particular calling formed their guilds, "city companies," or clubs, in the interests of their
trade and for mutual benefit. There was a guild of bakers, a guild of goldworkers, and a guild
of anything and everything else. Each guild had its special deity--such as Vesta, the fire-goddess,
for the bakers, and Minerva, the goddess of wool-work, for the fullers--and it held an annual
festival in honour of such patrons, marching through the streets with regalia and flag. Doubtless
the members of a guild acted in concert for the regulation of prices, although the Roman government
took care that these clubs should be non-political, and would speedily suppress a strike if
it seriously interfered with the public convenience. The ostensible excuse for a guild, and
apparently the only one theoretically accepted by the imperial government, was the excuse of
a common worship. It is at least certain that the emperors jealously watched the formation
of any new union, and that they would promptly abolish any which appeared to have secret understandings
and aims, or to act in contravention of the law. In the towns which possessed local government
the municipal authorities were still elected by the people; and the guilds, especially of shopkeepers,
could and did play their parts in determining the election of a candidate. The elections might
make a difference to them in those ways in which modern town-councillors and mayors, may influence
the rates, the conditions of the streets, the rules of traffic, and so forth. There are sixteen
hundred election notices painted, in red and black about the walls of Pompeii, and we find
So-and-So recommended by such-and-such a trade as being a "good man," or "an honest young man,"
or a person who will "keep an eye on the public purse." It is amusing to note that, in satirical
parody of such appeals as "the fruitsellers recommend So-and-So," we find that "the petty thieves
recommend So-and-So," or we get the opinion of "the sleepers one and all." Special objects
connected with these and other associations were the provision of "widows' funds," and of proper
burial for the members. Of the importance of the latter to the ancient world we shall speak
when we come to a funeral and the religious ideas connected with it.

The most difficult task in dealing with antiquity is to visualise the actual life as it was
lived. In the life of the humbler citizens the remains of Pompeii lend more help than anything
else to the desired sense of reality, but they are the remains of Pompeii, not of Rome. Nevertheless
there are many points in which we may fairly argue from the little town to the larger, and
it is customary to adopt this course.

We may, therefore, think of the common people among these ancients as very much alive in their
frank curiosity, their broad humour, their love of shows, and their keen enthusiasm for the
competitions, their interest in petty local elections, their advertising instincts, their insatiable
fondness for scribbling on walls and pillars, whether in paint or with a "style," a sort of
small stiletto with which they commonly wrote on tablets. The ancient world becomes very near
when we read, side by side with the election notices, a line from Virgil or Ovid scrawled in
a moment of idleness, or a piece of abuse of a neighbouring and rival town--such as "bad luck
to the Nucerians"--or a pretty sentiment, such as "no one is a gentleman who has not been in
love," or an advertisement to the effect that there are "To let, from July 1, shops with their
upper floors, a flat for a gentleman, and a house: apply to Prinus, slave of So-and-So"; or
"Found wandering, a mare with packsaddle, apply, etc."--the latter, by the way, painted on a tomb.

For places of social resort there were the baths, the colonnades, the semicircular public seats,
the steps of public buildings, the shops, and the eating-houses and taverns. The middle classes,
in the absence of the modern clubs, met to gossip at the barber's, the bookseller's, or the
doctor's. Those of a humbler grade would often betake themselves to the establishments corresponding
to the modern Italian osterie, where were to be obtained wine with hot or cold water and also
cooked food. As they sat on their stools in these "greasy and smoky" haunts they might be compelled,
says the satirist, to mix with "sailors, thieves, runaway slaves, and the executioner," but
even men of higher standing were often not unwilling to seek low pleasures amid such surroundings,
especially when, as was frequently the case, there was provision for secret dicing beyond the
observation of the police.

From literature, meanwhile, we may fill in their vivacious language, the courteous terms the
people apply to each other, such as "you ass, pig, monkey, cuckoo, chump, blockhead, fungus,"
or, on the other side, "my honey, my heart, my dove, my life, my sparrowkin, my dainty cheese."
But to go more fully into matters like these would carry us too far afield.

We will end this topic with a last look at the ordinary free workman, who wears no toga, but
simply a girt-up tunic, a pair of boots, and a conical cap, and who goes home to his plain
fare of bread, porridge, lentil soup, goats'-milk cheese, "broad" and "French" beans, beetroot,
leeks, salted or smoked bacon, sausages, and black-pudding, which he will eat off earthenware
or a wooden trencher, and wash down with cheap but not unwholesome wine mixed with water. He
has no pipe to smoke; he has never heard of tea, coffee, or spirits. He may have been told
that certain remote barbarians drink beer, and he may know of a thing called butter, but he
would not touch it so long as he can get olive-oil. However humble his home, he will endeavour
to own a silver salt-cellar, and to keep it as an heirloom.

CHAPTER XV

HOLIDAYS AND AMUSEMENTS: THEATRE, CIRCUS, AMPHITHEATRE

These topics bring us naturally to the consideration of the chief amusements and entertainments
of Rome and of those parts of the empire which were either fairly romanized or else contained
a large number of resident Romans.

Holidays, some of them lasting over several days, were at this date liberally spread throughout
the year. Most of them belonged to fixed dates, others were festivals specially proclaimed
for victories or other causes of rejoicing. We may estimate their average number at Rome itself
at about a hundred. At first sight this might indicate an astonishing waste of time and the
prevalence of enormous indolence. But we must remember that the Romans had no such thing as
Sunday. Our own Sundays and the weekly half-holidays make together seventy-eight days, and
if to these we add the holidays at Christmas, Easter, and other Bank and public "closings,"
we shall find that our annual breaks in the working year are not very far from the Roman total,
however differently they may be distributed. The difference between us and them lies rather
in the way in which the holidays were employed. Originally the holidays did not imply any giving
of shows and games in the way of chariot-races, gladiatorial combats, and the like. They were
simply festivals of deities--of Flora, the goddess of flowers, Ceres, the goddess of crops,
Apollo the god of light and healing, and other divinities--honoured by sacrifices, processions,
and feasts. The feast of Saturn, for example, was at first held for only one day. Later it
was extended over five and then over seven days, exactly as our Christmas celebrations--which
are a Christian adaptation of it--tend virtually to spread over longer and longer periods.
At this winter festival of the Saturnalia there was an interchange of presents--such as confectionery,
game, articles of clothing, writing-tablets--and a general outburst of goodwill and merriment.
For one day the slaves were allowed to put on the freeman's cap, the "cap of liberty," and
to pretend to be the masters. This is the source of the mediaeval monkish custom of permitting
one annual day of "misrule." Meanwhile the citizen threw off the toga and clad himself in colours
as he chose. He played at dice publicly and with impunity. The cry of "Hurrah for the Saturnalia!"
was heard everywhere. Later it became customary to hold public shows on these days, and the
emperors gave gladiatorial games and acrobatic or dramatic entertainments, at which there were
scrambled various objects, articles of food, coins or tickets entitling the holder to some
gift which might be valuable, valueless, or comical. Similarly there was a holiday on New Year's
Day, when presents were again interchanged, regularly including a small piece of money "for
good luck." The gifts on this day frequently bore the inscription "a Happy and Prosperous New
Year to you." Presents at all times played a prominent part in Roman etiquette and sociality.
Not only were they given at holidays but also at all important domestic events. Even at a dinner-party,
besides actual articles of food to be carried home, there were frequently gifts of a kind either
expressly adapted to the recipient, or else drawn by a humorous lottery. Among numerous other
articles of which one might be the recipient in various seasons and circumstances, there are
mentioned books, pictures, tablets of ivory, wood, or parchment, cushions, mufflers, hats,
hoods, sponges, soap, rings, flasks, baskets, musical instruments, balls, pens, lamps, tooth-picks,
dice, money-boxes, satchels, parrots, magpies, and monkeys. On the Ides of March the poorer
classes made their way to the Campus Martius beside the river, built themselves arbours or
wigwams of boughs, and spent the day and evening in riotous song and jollity.

In general, however, the parts of these festivals to which the people looked forward with liveliest
anticipation were those public entertainments, commonly known as "the games" or "sports," which
were provided for them free of cost. The expense was theoretically borne by the state--whether
from the exchequer of the emperor or from that of the senate and the state did indeed spend
as much as six or eight thousand pounds upon a particular celebration. But, both in Rome itself
and in the provinces, it was practically obligatory that the public officer who had charge
of a given festival for the year should spend liberally of his own upon it. No man either at
Rome or in a provincial city could permit himself to be elected to such a public position unless
he was prepared to disburse a sum perhaps as large as the subvention given by the state. The
more he gave, particularly if he introduced some striking or amusing addition to the ordinary
shows, the more popular he became for the time being. In the Roman world you must pay for your
ambitions, and this was the most approved way of paying. We might moralise over the enormous
frivolity which could waste day after day thousands and thousands of pounds upon such transitory
pleasures, instead of conferring lasting benefits in the way of hospitals or schools. But it
is not the object of this book to moralise. We may feel confident that the Roman populace,
if offered the choice, would have voted for the chariot-races or the gladiators, not for the
college or the hospital.

The entertainments provided were of several kinds, by no means equally popular. There were
plays in the theatres; there were contests of running, wrestling, boxing, throwing of spears
and disks, and other "events," corresponding to our athletic sports; there were chariot-races
in the Circus, answering to our horse-races at Epsom or Newmarket; and there were spectacles
in the amphitheatre, to which, happily, we have no modern parallel. These included huntings
and baitings of animals, fights with wild beasts--performances far more dangerous than those
of the Spanish bull-ring--and, above all, the combats of the gladiators or professional "swordsmen."
So far as there exists a later analogue to the last it is to be found in the more chivalrous
tourney in the lists, but the resemblance is not very close. Least valued among the real Romans
were the athletic sports. For genuine enjoyment of these we must look to the Greek part of
the empire. At Rome they appeared tame, for the mind of the Roman populace was naturally coarse
in grain; what it delighted in was something sensationally acrobatic, or provocative of a rather
gross laughter, or else involving a thrilling anticipation of danger and bloodshed. In taste
the Romans were in fact similar to those modern spectators who love to see a man plunge from
a lofty trapeze into a narrow tank, with a reasonable chance of breaking his neck. It is a
strange contradiction with other Roman attitudes when we find that they objected to the Greek
wrestling or running on grounds of decorum, because it was innocently nude. On the athletic
sports, although they were never wanting in the "games" at Rome, we need not therefore dwell.
It may be sufficient to show by an illustration what sort of notion the ancient world entertained
of interesting pugilism. It is only fair to say that the "boxing-gloves" here given--thongs
of leather wrapped tightly round the arm and hand, and loaded or studded with lead or iron--were
a notion borrowed from the professional pugilists of Greece.

Next lowest in esteem stood the plays given on the theatrical stage. Mention has been made
in a previous chapter of the three great theatres of Rome, one of them said, though somewhat
incredibly, to be capable of holding 40,000 spectators. Their shape and arrangement have already
been hinted at. Huge structures of a similar kind existed in all the great romanized towns
of Italy and other provinces. One at Orange in France is still well preserved, and two of smaller
dimensions--one without a roof for plays, and one roofed for musical performances--are among
the most easily remembered of the remains extant at Pompeii. In the Grecian half of the empire
the theatres were not essentially different, the chief distinguishing feature being that, while
the Roman auditorium formed half a circle, that of the Greek type formed over two-thirds. In
the Roman type the level semicircle in front of the stage, from which we derive the name "orchestra,"
was occupied by the chairs of the senators, and the fourteen tiers of stone seats immediately
behind them by the knights; certain sections were also set apart for special classes, one being
for soldiers, one for boys not yet of age, and one for women, whose presence was not encouraged,
and who, except at the tragedies, would have shown more modesty by staying away. Facing the
seats is a stage, higher than among the Greeks, but somewhat lower than it is commonly made
in modern times; and at the back of the stage is a wall architecturally adorned to represent
a house or "palace" front, and containing one central and two side doors, which served for
separate purposes conventionally understood. Over the stage is a roof, which slopes backward
to join the wall. The entrances to the ordinary tiers of seats are from openings reached by
stairs from the outside arcade surrounding the building; those to the level "orchestra" are
from right and left by passages under an archway, which supports a private box for the presiding
official. The two boxes are approached from the stage, and when the emperor is present he is
seated in the one to the spectators' left. Round the top of the building, inside above the
seats, runs a covered walk, which serves as a lounge and a foyer. Over the heads of the spectators
a coloured awning--dark-red or dark-blue by preference--may be stretched on masts or poles;
when no awning is provided, or when it cannot be used because the wind is too strong, the spectator
is permitted to wear a broad-brimmed hat, if he finds one desirable for his comfort. The whole
building must be thought of as lined and seated with marble, gilded in parts, and decorated
with pillars and statues.

The curtain, instead of being pulled up, as with us, when the play begins is pulled down, falling
into a groove in the stage. Where we should say the "curtain is up" the Romans would say exactly
the reverse, "the curtain is lowered." For plays in which the palace-front was not appropriate,
scenery was employed to cover it, being painted on canvas or on boards which could be pulled
aside; other scenes were stretched on frames, which could be made to revolve so as to present
various faces.

The actors, however much admired for their art, and however influential in irregular ways,
were looked upon as in a degraded position, and no Roman who valued social regard would adopt
this line of life. Among the Greeks and such Orientals as were under Greek influence no such
stigma rested upon the profession, and therefore many of the chief actors of the imperial city
had received their training in this more liberal-minded part of the Roman world. The rest were
mostly slaves or ex-slaves. If a Roman of any standing took part, it was either because he
was a ruined man, or else because the emperor had capriciously ordered him to undergo this
humiliation.

The plays themselves were certainly of no great merit from a constructive or literary point
of view. We hear a good deal nowadays of the "decline of the drama," but perhaps in no civilised
country has it declined so far as it had descended in Rome by the year A.D. 64. The regular
and classical drama--that is to say, literary tragedy and comedy--was not likely to appeal
to any ordinary Roman gathering. The philosopher Seneca indeed wrote tragedies in imitation
of the Greek, but they were intended for the reader and the library, and there is little probability
that they were ever performed, or even offered to the stage. Tragedies were, it is true, represented,
but they were mostly Greek, and the performance was in the Greek style. The heroic actors wore
masks, covering not only the face but the whole head, which they raised considerably in height.
About the body fell long and trailing robes of splendid material and colour, and on the feet
were thick-soled boots which increased the height by several inches. The comedian played in
low shoes or slippers; and "boot" and "slipper" were therefore terms in common vogue to distinguish
the two kinds of theatrical entertainment. Of Pliny's two favourite country-houses on Lake
Como one was called "Tragedy" as standing high, the other "Comedy" because on a lower site
beside the water. The whole effect sought in the heroic play was the grandiose, and no attempt
was made to reproduce the actualities of life. In the accompanying illustration will be seen
the tragic hero as he appeared upon the Roman stage. In considering this somewhat amazing apparition
it must be remembered that at Rome, as in Greece, the theatre was huge, effective opera-glasses
were not known, and subtle changes of facial expression would have passed unnoticed. The make-up
of the actor, like the painting of the scenes, was compelled to depend upon broad effects.

With its love of the false heroic, of rhetorical bombast, of sumptuous dress, magnificent scenes,
and gorgeous accessories in the way of "supers" and processions, the Roman tragic drama of
this period must have borne a striking resemblance to the corresponding English pieces of the
Restoration or age of Dryden. Perhaps the most popular part of the performance was the music
and dancing, whether by individual actors or as ballets, accompanied by the flageolet, the
lyre, or the cymbals.

In comedy there was apparently no originality. As in the oldest days of their drama the Romans
had copied the Greeks, so they copied them still. We may believe that the acting was often
excellent; especially in respect of intonation and gesture, but little can be said for the
play, whether from the point of view of literature or of morals. Since verbal description must
necessarily be of little force, it will serve better to present here a few specimens of comic
masks and a scene from comedy:

Much more in demand were theatrical performances of a lower kind. These were farces, interludes,
character-pieces, and dumb-shows known as "pantomimes." The farce     was a loosely constructed
form of fooling comedy, containing much of the ready Italian improvisation or "gag," and regularly
introducing the four stock characters which have lasted with little disguise for so many centuries
There was an old "grandfather," the forerunner of the modern pantaloon; a cunning sharper;
a garrulous glutton with a fat face (known as "Chops"); and an amorous Simple Simon. Sometimes
types of foreigners or provincials were introduced, with caricatures of their dress and language,
after the manner, and probably with the veracity, of the stage Scotchman, Irishman, or Frenchman.
All these parts were played in masks.

The interlude again was a slight piece with very little plot, and composed in a large measure
of buffoonery, practical jokes, hitting and slapping, and dancing. Topical allusions and contemporary
caricatures were freely introduced, and the whole performance, however coarsely amusing, was
both vulgar and indecent. In these pieces no masks were worn and also no shoes, and the women's
parts--taken in the other instances by men and boys--were actually played by females, whose
posture-dances were no credit to their sex.

The dumb-shows or "pantomimes" were performances in which expressive and elaborate gestures
and movements were left to tell the whole tale. For this kind of piece the actors naturally
required not only uncommon cleverness but also great suppleness of body. As usual, these qualities,
together with the qualities of voice, the magnificent dress, and the carefully cultivated long
hair, won for the actor demoralising influence over too large a number of the more impressionable
and untrammelled Roman dames.

Meanwhile the huge audience must not be conceived as sitting in quiet and restrained attention,
but as roaring with laughter, applauding and stamping, shouting approval and encores, hissing
and waving handkerchiefs. And meanwhile the claqueurs will have been duly distributed by those
interested in the success of the performance. Every now and then a fine rain of saffron perfume
is shed over the audience from pipes and jets distributed round the building. It deserves remark
also that in the theatre, as in the other places of amusement, the gathering frequently broke
out into demonstrations of its feeling towards persons and politics. There was safety in numbers,
and the applause or hissing which greeted a personage or a topical allusion--or a line which
could be twisted into such--could hardly be laid to the account of any individual. A certain
license was conceded and fully utilised at the festivals: it served as a safety-valve, and
wise emperors apparently so regarded it. At Rome the government was indeed "despotism tempered
by epigram," but it was no less tempered by these demonstrations at the games and spectacles.

More worthy of imperial Rome were the exhibitions of chariot-races held in the immense Circus
Maximus. That building, already described, would at this date probably hold some 200,000 persons,
but it could never provide room enough for the excited people, who not only gathered in multitudes
from Rome itself, but also from all the country, even all the empire, within reach. For weeks
the chances of the parties have been discussed and betted upon; even the schoolboys have talked
chariots, chariot-drivers, and horses. The fortune-tellers have been consulted about them;
dreamers have dreamed the winners; and many an underhand attempt, sometimes including the hocussing
of men or horses, has been made to corrupt the sport. The struggle is in reality not between
chariot and chariot, but between what we should call stable and stable. There are four parties--the
white, red, green, and blue--whose drivers will wear the respective colours, in which also
the chariots were probably painted. By some means the green and blue have at this date contrived
to stand out beyond the others, and the chief interest commonly centres upon these.

The day of the great spectacle arrives. Outside the building and in the porticoes surrounding
it the sellers of books of the races and of cushions are plying their trade along with venders
of confectionery and perfumes. The people are streaming into the numerous entrances which lead
by stairways to the particular blocks or tiers of seats in which they are entitled to sit,
and for which they bear a ticket. Full citizens are wearing the toga, or, if the emperor has
not forbidden the practice, the brightly coloured cloak which has been already described. Seats
are reserved for officials, senators, knights, and Vestal Virgins; and on the side under the
Palatine is a large balcony-box for the emperor and his suite. At these games women have no
special place set apart for them; they sit in their richest land showiest attire among the
general body of the spectators, and flirting and love-making are part of the order of the day.
A very crude form of field-glass or "spy-glass" was already in use, apparently consisting generally
of a mere hollow tube, but occasionally provided with a magnifying lens. Nero himself, in consequence
of his short-sight, had a "glass" in some way contrived of emerald.

At one end of the Circus is a building containing a curved line of stalls, equidistant from
the starting-point, in which the drivers hold their chariots in readiness. These are all barred,
and only at the signal will the doors be thrown open. The horses are commonly three-year-olds
or five-year-olds. In some races there are two horses to the chariot, in others four. Less
commonly there are three or six, or even a greater number. In the year 64 the number of cars
running will be four, one for each club. How many races there are to be, and in what variety,
will depend upon the presiding officer, who, as has been said, is paying a considerable portion
of the expenses, and who will receive or lose applause according to the entertainment he affords
to the spectators. Commonly there will be about twenty races run, although occasionally even
that number be increased.

Down the middle of the arena, though not quite in its axis, runs a low broad wall called the
"backbone," bearing various sculptures along its summit and in the middle an obelisk, now standing
in the Piazza del Popolo, which Augustus had brought from Egypt after his conquest of that
country. On the extremities of the "backbone" are placed the figures of seven dolphins and
seven large eggs, and just free of each end, on a base of their own, stand three tall cones
coated with gilt, round which the chariots are to turn as a yacht turns round the buoy. Seven
times will the chariots race down the arena, round the end of the backbone, and back again.
At each lap a dolphin and an egg will be removed from the wall, and as the last disappears
the winning driver makes straight on for the white line which serves as the winning-post.

But they have not yet started. At the fixed hour a procession starts from the Capitol, descends
by the temple of Saturn and past the face of the Basilica Julia, turns along the "Tuscan Street,"
and enters the Circus under a large archway in the middle of the building which contains the
stalls. In front go a body of musicians with blare of the straight Roman trumpet and the scream
of the flageolets; behind these comes the high official who has charge of the particular festival.
He is mounted high on a chariot, and is clothed in a toga embroidered with gold and a tunic
figured with golden palm-branches: in his hand he carries an ivory sceptre, and over his head
is held a crown of gold-leaf. Behind the chariot is collected a retinue in festal array. The
competing chariots follow; after these are the effigies of deities, borne on platforms or on
vehicles to which are attached richly caparisoned horses, mules, or elephants; in attendance
upon them are the connected priestly bodies. As this procession passes round the Circus the
spectators rise from their seats, roar their acclamations, and wave their handkerchiefs. When
it has made the circuit, its members retire to their places, and the chariots are shut in their
stalls. Soon the president takes his stand in his box, lifts a large handkerchief or napkin,
and drops it. Immediately the bolts of the barriers are withdrawn, and the chariots dash forward
towards the point marked A. The drivers, clothed in a close sleeveless tunic and wearing a
skull-cap, all of their particular colour, lean forward over their steeds, and encourage them
with whips and shouting. At their waists you will see the reins gathered to a girdle, at which
also hangs a knife, in readiness to cut them away in case of accident. The chariot is a low
and shallow vehicle of wood covered with ornament and as light as it can well be made, and
it requires no little skill for the charioteer to maintain his footing while controlling his
team. Down the straight they rush, each endeavouring to gain an advantage at the turn, where
the left rein is pulled, and the left horse--the pick of the team--is brought as closely round
the end of the wall as skill and prudence can contrive. It is chiefly, though by no means only,
here that the accidents occur, and that the chariots lose their balance and collide with each
other, or strike against the end of the wall and are over-thrown. How readily collision might
happen may be seen from the following diagram, where the courses of two chariots, A and B,
are indicated.

Sometimes the teams get out of hand and general disaster may result. Round and round they go,
the spectators yelling in their excitement for the blue or the green, the red or the white,
and making or revising their bets. "Too far out!" "Well turned!" "The green wins!" "Well done,
Hirpinus!" Shouts like these form a roar to which perhaps we have no modern parallel. One by
one the eggs and dolphins disappear from the wall; the chariots are reduced in number; the
four or five miles are completed; and an enormous shout goes up for the winner, whose name--of
man and horse and colour--will be for days in everybody's mouth. For his reward he will not
only obtain the honour of the palm-branch; he will receive presents in money, gold and silver
wreaths, clothes, and various articles of value. Socially he may be but a slave or a person
in base esteem; the occupation, however reputable in the Greek portion of the empire, is not
for a free-born Roman; nevertheless, like the jockey who wins the Derby, he is the hero of
the moment.

Race follows race, with an interval for the midday meal. During that time there will be interludes
of acrobatic and other performances. One rider, for example, will stand upright on the back
of two or more horses, and will spring continually from one to the other while they are at
the gallop. Most of the company will take their refreshments where they are. When a man of
some standing was reproached by Augustus for this rather undignified proceeding, he replied:
"That is all very well for you, Sire, but your place is sure to be kept." We need not proceed
further into details concerning the "events" in the Circus. It may however be worth while to
add that the Romans cared nothing for the modern form of race by jockeys on single horses.

The Circus is quite a different thing from the oval amphitheatre, a structure for once of native
Roman devising, without which no Roman town could consider itself complete. Though the Colosseum
was not yet built, there already existed an amphitheatre in the Campus Martius, and such buildings
were to be found in all considerable towns which contained a large Roman element. There is
one, though of later date than Nero, still to be seen in fair preservation at Verona; the well-known
amphitheatre at Pompeii was in full use in the year 64, and other cities--Capua, Puteoli, Nîmes,
Antioch, or Caesarea--were provided with the joys of the gladiatorial shows and the beast-fight.
Only in the thoroughly Greek or thoroughly Oriental part of the empire was the amphitheatre
absent. Where there was no fixed building of stone or wood, a temporary structure was erected
and a company of gladiators would perform in the place at the expense of some local officer
or of some wealthy citizen with social ambitions. Whatever may be thought of the Greeks in
other respects, they felt no liking, but only an openly expressed repulsion, for the barbarous
exhibitions of bloodshed in which the Roman revelled. Outside Jerusalem an amphitheatre was
built by the romanizing Herod, but it was done to the horror of all orthodox Jews.

The performances were of two main kinds; fights between men and beasts--occasionally between
two kinds of wild beast--and fights between men and men. There was no make-believe about these
combats; they meant at least serious wounds, even when they did not mean death. Those who fought
with beasts might in some cases be volunteers; in general they were captives or condemned criminals,
and it perhaps hardly needs pointing out that, when St. Paul says he had "fought with beasts
at Ephesus," he is merely speaking in metaphor adapted to the times. It was not intended that
the criminal should escape death, but only that he should be able to make a fight for his life.
Meanwhile the gladiators who fought with men and not with beasts were in the position of professionals,
who might be slaves, condemned brigands, mutineers, prisoners of war, or volunteers. The picture
drawn by Byron, although the so-called "Dying Gladiator" which inspired him is in reality no
gladiator but a Gaulish warrior, perhaps fairly represents one class of combatant, but it represents
only one. In the case of these "swordsmen" a number of successful fights might in the end secure
freedom and something more for slave or prisoner, and a competence for the volunteer. It was
not unnatural that men of courage and strength should frequently offer themselves for this
service. Their physical training was indeed severe both in the way of exercise and of diet,
and their personal treatment was harsh and ignominious; but their fame, such as it might be,
was wide, and their rewards often solid. Contemporary writers also complain that, however brutal
and ugly they were, there were always women ready to adore them and to consider them as beautiful
as Adonis. At Pompeii a scribbling calls one of them "the sigh of the girls." Nevertheless
no Roman with much self-respect, unless forced by a malignant emperor, would bear the stigma
of having appeared as a gladiator, any more than in modern times one would choose to be known
as a professional pugilist. Moreover these same heroes, after their glorious day in the arena,
were carefully stripped of their showy armour, imprisoned in barracks, and, if disobedient
or troublesome, chastised with the lash and put in irons or the stocks.

The prelude to a beast-fight was frequently rather a "hunt," amounting to a demonstration of
skill in dealing with wild animals which could hardly be said to fight, but which were difficult
to capture or kill. Success with javelins or arrows required somewhat more skill and daring
than the "big game" shooting of modern times. To give a greater air of naturalness to the performance
the arena was sometimes temporarily planted with shrubs and trees, and diversified with rock-work.
After the beast "hunt" came the beast "fight," which might be against bisons or bulls, wild
boars or wolves, lions or tigers, a rhinoceros or an elephant. In such contests the man commonly
wore no body-armour. He took his sword or spear, swathed his right arm and his legs, and went
out to meet the enemy in his tunic. The beasts were either let loose from the end of the arena,
or, as later in the Colosseum, they were brought up in cages from their underground dens by
means of lifts worked by pulleys. Indirectly, it may be observed, the mania for this sport
produced one distinctly beneficial result, inasmuch as the more dangerous wild beasts became
almost exterminated from the Roman world. The number killed was enormous, hundreds of lions
or panthers being produced and slain during the shows of a single festival. It may be added
that on the top of the wall or platform surrounding the arena there was placed--at least in
the Colosseum--a metal grating or screen, of which the top bar revolved, so that if a wild
beast managed to spring so high and take a grip, the feat was of no use to him. To keep him
at a further distance a trench surrounded the arena and separated it from the platform.

But the great entertainment of the amphitheatre was the combats of men with men. After the
beast-fights, which were held in the mornings, and amounted in estimation to a matinee, there
followed the fights of the gladiators. Outside the building are being sold the books which
catalogue the pairings, together with some record of the men, the name of their training-school,
and a statement as to the weapons with which they will fight and as to whether they have made
previous appearances. At the appointed time the procession enters from one end of the arena,
and the combatants parade and salute the emperor, if he is present, or the presiding officer.
Their weapons are examined, and there is a preliminary sham-fight, partly for exhibition of
skill and to influence bets, partly for practice. The men then return to their places, a trumpet
blows, and a pair commences the real fighting. Sometimes a man is in full and heavy armour
from head to foot; sometimes he is lightly equipped with a half-shield and a spear; sometimes
he carries only a sharp three-pronged spear and a casting-net, in which he endeavours to enmesh
an enemy fully armed. Besides combats on foot, there may be fights upon horseback, or even
in chariots of the kind then best known in Britain. To encourage the participants, and to lend
more spirit to the scene, there is a blowing of horns and trumpets while the fight proceeds.
All around the people are shouting their comments and their advice; they applaud and adjure
and curse. "Get up to him!" "Kill him!" and the like are heard on every side. A man falls,
not dead, but disabled, and the spectators shout "He has it." He holds up his finger in sign
of defeat, but he utters no cry. Shall he be killed, or shall he not? The answer depends on
the president or "giver" of the exhibition. He looks round, and if he perceives that the great
majority are giving an upward flick of the thumb, and hears them call "Give him the steel!"
the man is doomed; if, on the contrary, handkerchiefs are waved, his life is spared. A good
fight or a good record may save him to fight again another day. The formal presentation of
a wooden sword would mean that he was discharged for life from the necessity of further fighting.
If his enemy's dagger must be pressed into his throat, or if he has been slain outright, there
is a passage under the middle of the side of the amphitheatre through which the body will be
dragged by a hook into the mortuary. Another combat follows between another pair--sometimes
between two sides--and should the arena become too sodden with blood, it is raked over and
fresh sand is scattered.

It is amazing in what a cold-blooded manner all this was carried out. When one reads the notices
written up at Pompeii, that on such-and-such a date there will be exhibited so many pairs of
gladiators, that "there will be a beast-hunt," and that "awnings will be provided and perfume
sprinkled," it is difficult at first to realise that it means all that it does mean. To the
credit of the Romans--so far as they deserve any at all--let it be stated that the presence
of women was not encouraged at these shows; that if they appeared at all, it must be in the
upper tier, as far as possible from the arena; and, strangely enough, that only the six Vestals,
in virtue of their religious claims, could be placed in any position of honour. These sat upon
the lowest platform, in line with the special seats of the emperor or president and the highest
officials of the state, but it is probably a libel for an artist to depict them as so many
Maenads lusting for the blood of the vanquished.

The only other form of public entertainment which it seems desirable to mention was that of
a naval battle, in which the sea was either represented by flooding the amphitheatre, or by
means of a permanent lake, such as that which Augustus created artificially across the Tiber.
The proceedings bore all the appearance of reality. Ships were rammed, sunk, overturned, and
boarded, and, so far as the men were concerned, the battle might be as grim and bloody as any
other kind of gladiatorial contest.

CHAPTER XVI

THE WOMEN: MARRIAGE, THE ROMAN MATRON, AND HER DRESS

We will assume that Silius is a married man, and that his wife is a typical Roman dame worthy
of his station in life. Her name shall be Marcia, or, if she possesses more than one, Marcia
Sabina. Marriage does not confer upon her the name of her husband, and if she requires further
identification in connection with him, she will be referred to as "Silius's Marcia." At an
earlier date a woman owned but a single name, but already practical convenience and pride of
descent had combined to make it desirable that she should bear a second, which might be taken
from the family either of her father or of her mother. Thus if Silius and Marcia themselves
have a daughter, she may in her turn perhaps be called Silia Bassa, perhaps Silia Marcia.

If now we proceed to describe the position of Marcia in her conjugal and family relations,
to speak of her way of life, and to suggest her probable character, it must be understood that
the description would by no means necessarily fit every Roman matron. Women are said to be
infinitely various, and in this respect the ancient world was precisely like the modern. And
not only has it further to be borne in mind that there were several strata of Roman society,
and that city life differed widely from country life; there was also an actual difference in
the legal position of a wife, according to the terms upon which she had chosen to enter the
state of wedlock. In other words, there were two forms of matrimony. According to the old-fashioned
style a wife passed into the power of the husband; her legal position--though not, of course,
her domestic standing--was the same as that of his daughter. Once on a time he had even possessed
the right of putting her to death, but at our date that privilege no longer existed. It was
enough that she should be subject to his authority. In that position she managed the home and
family, and often managed him as well. How far this time-honoured style of marriage was still
maintained among the lower classes of Roman society it is impossible to tell; our information
is almost entirely restricted to the higher, or at least the wealthier, orders. It is, however,
probable that among the artisans and labourers, where the dowry of a wife cannot have amounted
to anything very considerable, this more stringent state of matrimony was the rule. Paterfamilias
was the head and lord of the house, while materfamilias held in practice much the same position
as she did in Anglo-Saxon households of two or three generations ago.

