Imp. Sub. (angrily). Well, I have given it now. (He listens intently, exclaiming now and again,
"Are you there?" and then rings.) One four two nought eight six, please.

First Voice (after a pause). What!

Imp. Sub. One four two nought eight six, please.

First Voice (as if the number is now heard for the first time). One four two nought eight six?

Imp. Sub. Yes, please. And look sharp!

First Voice. What?

Imp. Sub. One four two nought eight six.

First Voice. I hear. One four two nought eight six. [The communication is cut off for a couple
of minutes.

Imp. Sub. (for the sixth time). Are you there?

Second Voice. Yes. Who is it?

Imp. Sub. I am BOSH, BOODLE & CO.

Second Voice. RUSH, RUDDLE & CO.?

Imp. Sub. No. BOSH, BOODLE & CO.

First Voice. Have you finished?

Imp. Sub. No, no--we are still speaking. I want to know if you have sent that case of champagne
to BUMBLETON?

Second Voice. What? I can't hear you.

Imp. Sub. (speaking very slowly, as if dictating to imperfectly educated infants). Have--you--sent--that--case--of--cham--pagne--to
BUM--BLE--TON?

Second Voice (puzzled). Sent a case of champagne?

First Voice (interposing.) Have you finished?

Imp. Sub. No, we are still speaking. Yes--have you sent a case of champagne to BUMBLETON?

Second Voice. Sent a case of champagne to BUMBLETON? No; why should we?

Imp. Sub. Because you promised TICKLEBY you would.

Second Voice (evidently perplexed). Promised TICKLEBY?

Imp. Sub. (in a tone of reproach). Yes, promised TICKLEBY.

First Voice (interposing.) Have you finished?

Imp. Sub. No, we are still speaking; please don't cut us off. (Returning to the champagne subject).
Yes, you promised TICKLEBY you would send the case of champagne to BUMBLETON. (With inspiration.)
You are the Arctic Wine Company, aren't you?

Second Voice. No. I am Secretary of the Curate's Papier Mâché Church Company.

Imp. Sub. (in a tone of sorrow). Aren't you one four two nought eight six?

Third Voice (coming from somewhere). Mind and bring a gun with you, and--.

Second Voice. No. We are two four eight nought six seven. Good morning!

First Voice. Have you finished?

Imp. Sub. (angrily). I have not begun! You have put me on the wrong number!

First Voice (calmly). What number do you want?

Imp. Sub. (angrily). One four two nought eight six.

First Voice. Two four two nought eight six?

Imp. Sub. (with suppressed rage). No, one four two nought eight six.

First Voice. Very well. One four two nought eight six.

Imp. Sub. Yes, and don't make a mistake.

    [Long pause, during which he asks, "Are you there?" at
    intervals.

Fourth Voice. What is it?

Imp. Sub. Are you Arctic Wine Company?

Fourth Voice. Yes, all right! What is it?

Imp. Sub. (joyfully). Have you sent a case of champagne to BUMBLETON?

Fourth Voice. What? I can't hear you.

Fourth Voice. We can't hear you. Send a messenger.

First Voice. Have you finished?

Imp. Sub. (shouting). Yes! (Is cut off.) Shorter to have done so at once!

    [Uses intemperate language, and hurries off to get a
    Messenger. Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHURLISH CABMAN.

AIR--"BALLYHOOLEY."

  The Cabman's thrifty fares,
  Who would seek suburban airs,
    Desire, of course, a more extended "radius;"
  But, Cabby, it is clear,
  Thinks quite otherwise. I fear
    The controversy's growing rather "taydious."
  Whether by night or day,
  A fair fare the fare should pay,
    And Cabby should not overcharge unduly;
  But this is what riles me,
  When churl Cabby will not see
    A would-be fare, but just ignores him coolly.

  Chorus.

  "Hi! hi! Cab! Hi!" Oh, no!
  On the sullen brute will go;
  When he wants a fare, he's clamorous and unruly;
  But if he wants a drink,
  With a sneer or with a wink,
  He'll rumble on and just ignore you coolly.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO REPORT THE PRACTICE OF THE CREWS.

(NEWEST STYLE.)

Scarcely had the tintinabulum fixed on the altitude of the clock tower of the ecclesiastical
building known to fame and rowing men as Putney Church sounded out the merry chimes of eleven
in the forenoon, when the wielders of the sky-blue (or dark-blue) blades were observed by the
eager frequenters of the tow-path carrying their trim-built ship to the water's edge. Not many
moments were cut to waste before each man had safely ensconced himself on the thwart built
for him under the experienced eyes of the champion boat-builder. The men looked, it must in
all fairness be admitted, in the high level of condition. In each eye there blazed a stern
determination to do or die on every possible occasion. When the signal to start was given,
the boat was observed to move with the bounding speed of a highly-trained greyhound. The oars
dipped into the water like one man, though a marked inclination was observed on the part of
two or three of the oarsmen to "hurry," while the rest seemed equally disposed to be "late."
A few fatherly words from the prince of modern coaches soon had the desired effect of placing
matters on a more completely satisfactory footing. The suggestion often made in these columns
that a swifter rate of striking should be introduced, was acted upon. The boat moved with perfect
evenness, while the wavelets played round her like young dolphins out for a holiday.

I need only add that our old friend Jupiter Pluvius proved once again to be a kind friend to
those who tempted the dangers of the foaming tide in Putney Reach. In conclusion, it must be
observed that the stroke was sometimes "short" and occasionally "long," but the "slides" moved
like things of life, and contributed greatly to the pleasure of a very enjoyable outing.

       *       *       *       *       *

DESTROYING THE SPIDER'S WEB;

OR, THE THIRTEENTH LABOUR OF HERSCHELLES.

  "To Lion-Hearted Hercules," the strong,
  Sounded the clarion of Homeric song.
  "Alcides, forcefullest of all the brood
  Of men enforced with need of earthly food."
  Punch will sing gallant Herschelles, than whom
  Who was more worthy of Alcmene's womb
  Or Jovian parentage? Behold him stand
  With lion-hide on loins, and club in hand!
  Forceful and formidable to all foes,
  But fatal most especially to those
  Of Hydra presence and Stymphalian beak,
  Whose quarry is unseasoned youth, who seek
  By subtle snares the Infant's steps to trip,
  And catch the Minor in their harpy grip.
  To his Twelve Labours, against monsters grim,
  Who might have lived in safety but for him,
  To snare, to slay, to humbug, and to cozen,
  Herschelles, just to make a baker's dozen,
  Adds a Thirteenth!
                     A wily, wicked wight,
  Dwelling in noxious nooks as dark as night,
  Beyond the radius of the housemaid's broom,
  And thence dispensing dire disgrace and doom
  Long time our homes hath haunted. Greedy Ghoul,
  As furtive of advance as fierce of soul,
  The Money-lending Spider is his name,
  And grim and gruesome was his little game.
  Of swollen body, of protuberant beak,
  He knew that Youths were green, and Infants weak,
  And spun his web, invisible but strong,
  Where'er GRAY's well-named "little triflers" throng,
  Who, verily unmindful of their doom,
  He watched from forth his grubby haunts of gloom,
  And strove by sinister device to lure,
  Till, 'midst his viscous mazes once secure,
  Them he might seize and suck.
                                The Birds, the Boar,
  The Lion, or the Bull, all whom before
  Great Herschelles had tackled, were not worse
  Than the Colossal Spider, Albion's curse,
  The scourge of childish Wealth and youthful Rank,
  The Moloch of our Minors! Fathers, thank
  Our new Alcides, who, with legal club,
  Could dare the web assault, the Spider drub!
  Worse than Tarantula venom hath the bite
  Of this Conkiferous Ogre, which to fight
  Herschelles did adventure! Thump! Bang! Whack!
  The web is burst, the Spider's on his back,
  All impotently spluttering poisonous spleen
  Let's hope such monster may no more be seen.
  And let us hail great Herschelles, whose skill
  The high-nosed horror hath availed to kill.
  Blow, Infants, blow the pipe, and thump the tabor,
  In honour of the hero's Thirteenth Labour!

       *       *       *       *       *

CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

VII.--THE DUFFER WITH A SALMON-ROD.

No pursuit is more sedentary, if one may talk of a sedentary pursuit, and none more to my taste,
than trout-fishing as practised in the South of England. Given fine weather, and a good novel,
nothing can he more soothing than to sit on a convenient stump, under a willow, and watch the
placid kine standing in the water, while the brook murmurs on, and perhaps the kingfisher flits
to and fro. Here you sit and fleet the time carelessly, till a trout rises. Then, indeed, duty
demands that you shall crawl in the manner of the serpent till you come within reach of him,
and cast a fly, which usually makes him postpone his dinner-hour. But he will come on again,
there is no need for you to change your position, and you can always fill your basket easily--with
irises and marsh-marigolds.

Such are our county contents, but woe befall the day when I took to salmon-fishing. The outfit
is expensive, "half-crown flees" soon mount up, especially if you never go out without losing
your fly-book. If you buy a light rod, say of fourteen feet, the chances are that it will not
cover the water, and a longer rod requires in the fisherman the strength of a SANDOW. You need
wading-breeches, which come up nearly to the neck, and weigh a couple of stone. The question
has been raised, can one swim in them, in case of an accident? For one, I can answer, he can't.
The reel is about the size of a butter-keg, the line measures hundreds of yards, and the place
where you fish for salmon is usually at the utter ends of the earth. Some enthusiasts begin
in February. Covered with furs, they sit in the stern of a boat, and are pulled in a funereal
manner up and down Loch Tay, while the rods fish for themselves. The angler's only business
is to pick them up if a salmon bites, and when this has gone on for a few days, with no bite,
Influenza, or a hard frost with curling, would be rather a relief. This kind of thing is not
really angling, and a Duffer is as good at it as an expert.

Real difficulties and sufferings begin when you reach the Cruach-na-spiel-bo, which sounds
like Gaelic, and will serve us as a name for the river. It is, of course, extremely probable
that you pay a large rent for the right to gaze at a series of red and raging floods, or at
a pale and attenuated trickle of water, murmuring peevishly through a drought. But suppose,
for the sake of argument, that the water is "in order," and only running with deep brown swirls
at some thirty miles an hour. Suppose also, a large presumption, that the Duffer does not leave
any indispensable part of his equipment at home. He arrives at the stream, and as he detests
a gillie, whose contempt for the Duffer breeds familiarity, he puts up his rod, selects a casting
line, knots on the kind of fly which is locally recommended, and steps into the water. Oh,
how cold it is! I begin casting at the top of the stream, and step from a big boulder into
a hole. Stagger, stumble, violent bob forwards, recovery, trip up, and here one is in a sitting
position in the bed of the stream. However, the high india-rubber breeks have kept the water
out, except about a pailful, which gradually illustrates the equilibrium of fluids in the soles
of one's stockings. However, I am on my feet again, and walking more gingerly, though to the
spectator, my movements suggest partial intoxication. That is because the bed of the stream
is full of boulders, which one cannot see, owing to the darkness of the water. There was a
fish rose near the opposite side. My heart is in my mouth. I wade in as far as I can, and make
a tremendous swipe with the rod. A frantic tug behind, crash, there goes the top of the rod!
I am caught up in the root of a pine-tree, high up on the bank at my back. No use in the language
of imprecation. I waddle out, climb the bank, extricate the fly, get out a spare top, and to
work again, more cautiously. Something wrong, the hook has caught in my coat, between my shoulders.
I must get the coat off somehow, not an easy thing to do, on account of my india-rubber armour.
It is off at last. I cut the hook out with a knife making a big hole in the coat, and cast
again. That was over him! I let the fly float down, working it scientifically. No response.
Perhaps better look at the fly. Just my luck, I have cracked it off!

Where is the fly-book? Where indeed? A feverish search for the fly-book follows--no use: it
is not in the basket, it is not in my pocket; must have fallen out when I fell into the river.
No good in looking for it, the water is too thick, I thought I heard a splash. Luckily there
are some flies in my cap, it looks knowing to have some flies in one's cap, and it is not so
easy to lose a cap, without noticing it, as to lose most things. Here is a big Silver Doctor
that may do as the water is thick. I put one on, and begin again casting over where that fish
rose. By George, there he came at me, at least I think it must have been at me, a great dark
swirl, "the purple wave bowed over it like a hill," but he never touched me. Give him five
minutes law, the hook is sure to be well fastened on, need not bother looking at that again.
Five minutes take a long time in passing, when you are giving a salmon a rest. Good times and
bad times and all times pass, so here goes. It is correct to begin a good way above him and
come down to him. I'm past him; no, there is a long heavy drag under water, I get the point
up, he is off like a shot, while I stand in a rather stupid attitude, holding on. If I cannot
get out and run down the bank, he has me at his mercy. I do stagger out, somehow, falling on
my back, but keeping the point up with my right hand. No bones broken, but surely he is gone!
I begin reeling up the line, with a heavy heart, and try to lift it out of the water. It won't
come, he is here still, he has only doubled back. Hooray! Nothing so nice as being all alone
when you hook a salmon. No gillie to scream out contradictory orders. He is taking it very
easy, but suddenly he moves out a few yards, and begins jiggering, that is, giving a series
of short heavy tugs. They say he is never well hooked, when he jiggers. The rod thrills unpleasantly
in my hands, I wish he wouldn't do that. It is very disagreeable and makes me very nervous.
Hullo! he is off again up-stream, the reel ringing like mad: he gets into the thin water at
the top, and jumps high in the air. He is a monster. Hullo! what's that splash? The reel has
fallen off, it was always loose, and has got into the water. How am I to act now? He is coming
back like mad, and all the line is loose, and I can't reel up. I begin pulling at the line
to bring up the reel, but the reel only lets the line out, and now he is off again, down stream
this time, and I after him, and the line running out at both ends at once, and now my legs
get entangled in it, it is twisted all round me. He runs again and jumps, the line comes back
in my face, all slack, something has given. It is the hook, it was not knotted on firmly to
start with. He flings himself out of the water once more to be sure that he is free, and I
sit down and gnaw the reel. Had ever anybody such bad fortune, but it is just my luck!

I go back to the place where the reel fell in, and by pulling cautiously I extract it from
the stream. It shan't come off again; I tie it on with the leather lace of one of my brogues.
Then I reel up the slack, and put on another fly, out of my cap, a Popham. Then I fish down
the rest of the pool. Near the edge, in the slower part of the water, there is a long slow
draw, before I can lift the point of the rod, a salmon jumps high out of the water at me,--and
is gone! I never struck him, was too much taken aback at the moment; did not expect him then.
Thank goodness, the hook is not off this time.

The next stream is very deep, strong and narrow; the best chance is close in on my side. By
Jove, here he is, he took almost beside the rock. He sails leisurely out into the strength
of the stream, if he will come up, I can manage him, but if he goes down, the water is very
swift and broken, there are big boulders, and then a sheer wall of rock difficult to pass in
cold blood, and then the Big Pool. He insists on going down, I hold hard on him, and refuse
line. But he leaps, and then, well he will have it; down he rushes, I after him, over the stones,
scrambling along the rocky face; great heavens! the top joint of the rod is loose; I did not
tie it on, thought it would hold well enough. But down it runs, right down the line; it must
be touching the fish. It is; he does not like it, he jiggers like a mad thing, rushes across
the Big Pool, nearly on to the opposite bank. Why won't the line run? The line is entangled
in my boot-lace. He is careering about; I feel that I am trembling like a leaf. There, I knew
it would happen; he is off with my last casting-line, hook and all. A beauty he was, clear
as silver and fresh from the sea. Well, there is nothing for it but a walk back to the house.
I have lost one fly-book, two hooks, a couple of casting-lines, three salmon, a top joint,
and I have torn a great hole in my coat. On changing my dress before lunch, I find my fly-book
in my breast pocket, where I had not thought of looking for it somehow. Then the rain comes,
and there is not another fishing day in my fortnight. Still, it decidedly was "one crowded
hour of glorious life," while it lasted. The other men caught four or five salmon apiece; it
is their Red Letter Day. It is marked in black in my calendar.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOOTING.

    ["It is a noteworthy fact that while debates have been
    languishing at Westminster, at Tooting there have been Members
    enough to 'make a House' any day during the past fortnight,
    so keen an interest is the 'Royal and Ancient' game
    exciting."--Daily Telegraph.]

  What's the use of hooting.
  Or cir-cum-lo-cuting?
      M.P.'s off
      To play at Golf.
  All the way to Tooting!

  Petty points PAT's mooting!
  Chances not computing,
      M.P. slips,
      (Despite the Whips)
  Off to Golf at Tooting!

  Landlords may be looting,
  Tenants may be shooting;
      Where's the fun
      In that? Let's run
  Off to Golf at Tooting!

  So M.P.'s are "scooting,"
  On-the-gay-galoot-ing;
      Cut the House
      (It shows their nous)
  For the Links at Tooting!

  There is joy in shooting,
  Wine-ing or cherooting,
      Dinners, Moors,
      Weeds--all are bores,
  Compared with Golf at Tooting!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"BEYOND THE DREAMS OF AVARICE."

    ["FIFTY POUNDS Reward will be gratefully paid to any Lady
    or Gentleman who will ASSIST in RECOVERING a valuable
    HEIRLOOM.... Anyone with wealthy or influential friends can at
    once secure above reward. Address, &c."]

I am an impecunious young man, and, the other day, on seeing this Advertisement in the Times,
I was seized with a wild desire to "at once secure above reward." Said I to myself, "I have
'wealthy and influential friends.' There is my cousin's uncle, who has, I believe, thirty thousand
a-year, though I never saw any part of it, or of him, for the matter of that; and there is
my own aunt by marriage, whose second husband is a K.C.B., but I forget his name, and do not
know where he lives." So I sat and thought about it for a time with my eyes shut, and then
I started. The train was so full, that I imagined it must be market-day in some neighbouring
town, but the station was so much fuller, that I could hardly get out of the train. At last,
edgeways, I reached a pale and melancholy ticket-collector, and asked him where I should find
the address mentioned. He turned a pitying eye upon me, and, pointing to the crowd that filled
the station, said, wearily, "They're all a-goin' there. I know, cos they've all arst me. You'd
better foller 'em."

This statement filled me with desperation; I fought and struggled through the vast crowd of
persons "with wealthy and influential friends" until I reached the open street. By that time
I was exhausted, and, finding that the street was even fuller than the station had been, I
gave up the attempt. I saw that the reserve of gold at the Bank of England would not have sufficed
to pay each applicant the promised £50. In any case I felt sure that by that time the whole
of the money in the town must have been used up. So, without hat or umbrella, and with my coat
as much divided up the back as up the front, I returned--to consciousness, and went on reading
the newspaper.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE FORESTERS."

  All the greatest swells
    Of the U.S.A.
  Come to see a new,
    Fascinating play.
  Verses by a Lord!
    Music by a Knight!
  Just the thing in which
    Democrats delight.
  When the hearty praise
    Bursts from Yankee lips,
  "Pass and blush the news
    Over glowing ships;"
  What are "glowing ships"?
    That I've never guessed,
  "Pass the happy news,
    Blush it thro' the West;"
  This I simply quote
    From the poet's muse;
  Hang me if I know
    How you "blush the news"!
  Anyhow, you do,
    If the lines will scan,
  "Till the red man dance,"
    Do you think he can?
  "And the red man's babe
    Leap beyond the sea."
  Active sort of child,
    Surely, that must be!
  "Blush from West to East,"
    Blush from left to right,
  "Till the West is East,"
    And the black is white,
  DALY is the man!
    Daily is the play,
  "Dailies" puff it up,
    In the kindest way.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE APPROPRIATE.--The Senate House, where the Degree Examinations take place, might well be
termed "The Spinning House." It is there that unfortunate Candidates are "spun."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TELEPHONE CINDERELLA;

OR, WANTED A GODMOTHER.

    ["Far from taking up and developing the new mode of
    communication thus given into its hands, it (the Post Office)
    could not forget its attitude of hostility to the innovation,
    or conceive any larger policy than one of repressing the
    telephone in order to make people stick to the telegraph....
    The result is that England lags far behind all other civilised
    countries in the use of the telephone."--Times.]

AIR--"Ulalume."

  Cinderella, you sit and look sober,
    Cinderella, you mope and look queer--
    You mope, and look dolefully queer;
  As chill as JOHN MILLAIS' "October,"
    As you have done, this many a year.
  It is hard on you; MOZART or AUBER
    Might fail your depression to cheer--
  Had you taken the draught named of Glauber,
  You could scarce look duller, my dear

II.

  Our times, dear, are truly Titanic,
    Perfection seems Science's goal--
    Dim, distant, dark Science's goal--
  But we're still a bit given to panic.
        Monopolies moodily roll--
        Monopolies restlessly roll--
  That's why there's a movement volcanic
    That stirs us from pole unto pole--
  A moaning that's vainly volcanic,
    In the realms of the (Telegraph) pole.

III.

  Deputations are serious and sober,
    Officials look palsied and sere--
    They indulge in rhetoric small-beer
  (Instead of sound sparkling October)
    They're frightened about you, my dear--
    (You, at present in two senses, dear!)
  They would scan the far future, and probe her,
    But can't--and it makes them feel queer;
  As you sit by the fire, looking sober,
    You make them sit up and feel queer.

IV.

  Your sisters, whose airs are unpleasant,
    Regard you with arrogant scorn--
    With arrogant, uneasy scorn--
  True, they have the pull, for the present,
    But fear you, the fair youngest born.
  They know that your glory is crescent,
    And, though each uplifteth her horn,
  Each feels that her glory's senescent,
    In spite of their duplicate scorn.

V.

  Miss Telegraph, lifting her finger,
    Says--"Sadly this minx I mistrust--
    Her manners I strangely mistrust--
  She'll distance us, dear, if we linger!
    Ah, haste!--let us haste!--for we must!
  She'll eclipse us--that would be a stinger!
    She'll rise, and our business is "bust"--
  My dear, we must snub her, and bring her
    Presumptuous pride to the dust--
    Till she sorrowfully sinks in the dust."

VI.

  Post replies--"Oh, it's nothing but dreaming,
    Her hoping to put out our light!--
    Our brilliant and duplicate light!
  What did FERGUSSON say, blandly beaming
    Upon the tired House t'other night?
    He said he would make it all right.
  Ah, we safely may trust to his scheming--
    Be sure he will lead us aright--
  He won't let the damsel there dreaming
    Despoil us of what is our right--
    The monopoly plainly our right!"

VII.

  Yet watch Cinderella, and list her!
    She yet will emerge from her gloom--
    Time will conquer her fears and her gloom.
  Before her she hath a bright vista.[1]
    The fairy Godmother will come!
    Redtape shall not long seal her doom.
  What is written is written! No "sister,"
    (Though scorning her beauty, and broom)
    Shall shroud her bright light in the tomb
    Which yet the whole land shall illume!

VIII.

  She's "some pumpkins"--though now she looks sober--
    She's brilliant; she is "no small beer."
    No, no, Cinderella, my dear!
    Your envious "sisters" may jeer,
    And sit on you yet, for a year;
    Redtape your advancement may fear,
    And Monopoly's patrons look queer;
  But, as sure as the month of October
    Is famous for sound British beer,
  Vested Interest time shall prove no bar
    To your final triumph, my dear!

[Footnote 1: POE, not Mr. Punch, should have the credit of this and certain other Cockney rhymes.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE."--"The competition for the Evill Prize also took place yesterday"
(i.e., last Thursday. Vide Times). The prize so Evilly named was won by Mr. PHILIP BROZEL,
of the Royal Academy of Music, who must have expressed himself as being at least deucedly delighted,
even if he did not use some much stronger and wronger expression. Henceforth PHILIP BROZEL
has an Evill reputation. Let us hope he will live up to it, and so live it down.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MATINÉE MANIA.

(A SKETCH AT ANY THEATRE ON MOST AFTERNOONS.)

    SCENE--The Front of the House. In the Boxes and Dress-circle
    are friends and relations of the Author. In the Stalls are a
    couple of Stray Critics who leave early, actors and actresses
    "resting" more friends and relations. In the Pit, the front
    row is filled by the Author's domestic servants, the
    landladies of several of the performers, and a theatrical
    charwoman or two, behind them a sprinkling of the general
    public, whose time apparently hangs heavily on their hands.
    In a Stage-box is the Author herself, with a sycophantic
    Companion. A murky gloom pervades the Auditorium; a scratch
    orchestra is playing a lame and tuneless Schottische for
    the second time, to compensate for a little delay of fifteen
    minutes between the first and second Tableaux in the Second
    Act. The orchestra ceases, and a Checktaker at the Pit door
    whistles "Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay!" Some restless spirits stamp
    feebly.

The Author. I wish they would be a little quicker. I've a good mind to go behind myself and
hurry them up. The audience are beginning to get impatient.

Her Companion. But that shows how interested they are, doesn't it, dear?

Author. I think it ought to interest them, but I did expect they would have shown a little
more enthusiasm over that situation in the last tableau--they're rather a cold audience!

Comp. It's above their heads, dear, that's where it is--plays are such rubbish nowadays, people
don't appreciate a really great drama just at first. I do hope Mr. IRVING, Mr. HARE and Mr.
BEERBOHM TREE will come in--I'm sure they'll be only too anxious to secure it!

Author. I don't know that I should care for it to come out at the Lyceum, but of course if
the terms were very--oh, they're beginning at last! I hope this light comedy scene will go
well. (Curtain rises: Comic dialogue--nothing whatever to do with the plot--between a Footman
and a Matinée Maidservant in short sleeves, a lace tucker, and a diamond necklace; depression
of audience. Serious characters enter and tell one another long and irrelevant stories, all
about nothing. When the auditor remarks, "Your story is indeed a sad one--but go on," a shudder
goes through the house, which becomes a groan ten minutes later when the listener says: "You
have told me your history--now hear mine!" He tells it; it proves, if possible, duller and
more irrelevant than the other man's. A love-scene follows, characterised by all the sparkle
and brilliancy of "Temperance Champagne"; the House witnesses the fall of the Curtain with apathy.)

Author. That love-scene was perfectly ruined by the acting! She ought to have turned her head
aside when he said, "Dash the teapot!" but she never did, and he left out all that about dreaming
of her when he was ill with measles in Mashonaland! I wish they wouldn't have such long waits,
though. We timed the piece at rehearsal, and, with the cuts I made, it only played about four
hours; but I'm afraid it will take longer than that to-day.

Comp. I don't care how long it is--it's so beautifully written!

