Then, as to "the sense of satiety in eating." It is produced in us by three platefuls of hotch-potch--and,
to the eyes of an ordinary observer, our dinner would seem to be at an end. But no--strictly
speaking, it is just going to begin. About an hour ago did we, standing on the very beautiful
bridge of Perth, see that identical salmon, with his back-fin just visible above the translucent
tide, arrowing up the Tay, bold as a bridegroom, and nothing doubting that he should spend
his honeymoon among the gravel-beds of Kinnaird or Moulinearn, or the rocky sofas of the Tummel,
or the green marble couches of the Tilt. What has become now of "the sense of satiety in eating?"
John--the castors!--mustard--vinegar--cayenne--catchup--pease and potatoes, with a very little
butter--the biscuit called "rusk"--and the memory of the hotch-potch is as that of Babylon
the Great. That any gigot of mutton, exquisite though much of the five-year-old blackfaced
must assuredly be, can, with any rational hopes of success, contend against a haunch of venison,
will be asserted by no devout lover of truth. Try the two by alternate platefuls, and you will
uniformly find that you leave off after the venison. That "sense of satiety in eating," of
which Dr Kitchiner speaks, was produced by the Tay salmon devoured above--but of all the transitory
feelings of us transitory creatures on our transit through this transitory world, in which
the Doctor asserts nature will not suffer any sudden transitions, the most transitory ever
experienced by us is "the sense of satiety in eating." Therefore, we have now seen it for a
moment existing on the disappearance of the hotch-potch--dying on the appearance of the Tay
salmon--once more noticeable as the last plate of the noble fish melted away--extinguished
suddenly by the vision of the venison--again felt for an instant, and but for an instant--for
a brace and a half of as fine grouse as ever expanded their voluptuous bosoms to be devoured
by hungry love! Sense of satiety in eating indeed! If you please, my dear friend, one of the
backs--pungent with the most palate-piercing, stomach-stirring, heart-warming, soul-exalting
of all tastes--the wild bitter-sweet.

But the Doctor returns to the subject of travelling--and fatigue. "When one begins," he says,
"to be low-spirited and dejected, to yawn often and be drowsy, when the appetite is impaired,
when the smallest movement occasions a fluttering of the pulse, when the mouth becomes dry,
and is sensible of a bitter taste, seek refreshment and repose, if you wish to PREVENT ILLNESS,
already beginning to take place." Why, our dear Doctor, illness in such a deplorable case as
this, is just about to end, and death is beginning to take place. Thank Heaven, it is a condition
to which we do not remember having very nearly approximated! Who ever saw us yawn? or drowsy?
or with our appetite impaired, except on the withdrawal of the table-cloth? or low-spirited,
but when the Glenlivet was at ebb? Who dare declare that he ever saw our mouth dry? or sensible
of a bitter taste, since we gave over munching rowans? Put your ringer on our wrist, at any
moment you choose, from June to January, from January to June, and by its pulsation you may
rectify Harrison's or Kendal's chronometer.

But the Doctor proceeds--"By raising the temperature of my room to about 65°, a broth diet,
and taking a tea-spoonful of Epsom salts in half a pint of warm water, and repeating it every
half-hour till it moves the bowels twice or thrice, and retiring to rest an hour or two sooner
than usual, I have often very speedily got rid of colds, &c."

Why, there may be no great harm in acting as above; although we should far rather recommend
a screed of the Epsoms. A small matter works a Cockney. It is not so easy--and that the Cockneys
well know--to move the bowels of old Christopher North. We do not believe that a tea-spoonful
of anything in this world would have any serious effect on old "Ironsides." We should have
no hesitation in backing him against so much corrosive sublimate. He would dine out on the
day he had bolted that quantity of arsenic;--and would, we verily believe, rise triumphant
from a tea-spoonful of Prussic acid.

We could mention a thousand cures for "colds, et cetera," more efficacious than a broth diet,
a warm room, a tea-spoonful of Epsom salts, or early roosting. What say you, our dear Dean,
to half-a-dozen tumblers of hot toddy? Your share of a brown jug to the same amount? Or an
equal quantity, in its gradual decrease revealing deeper and deeper still the romantic Welsh
scenery of the Devil's Punch-Bowl? Adde tot small-bearded oysters, all redolent of the salt-sea
foam, and worthy, as they stud the Ambrosial brodd, to be licked off all at once by the lambent
tongue of Neptune. That antiquated calumny against the character of toasted cheese--that, forsooth,
it is indigestible--has been trampled under the march of mind; and therefore, you may tuck
in a pound of double Gloucester. Other patients, labouring under catarrh, may, very possibly,
prefer the roasted how-towdy--or the green goose from his first stubble-field--or why not,
by way of a little variety, a roasted maukin, midway between hare and leveret, tempting as
maiden between woman and girl, or, as the Eastern poet says, between a frock and a gown? Go
to bed--no need of warming-pans--about a quarter before one;--you will not hear that small
hour strike--you will sleep sound till sunrise, sound as the Black Stone at Scone, on which
the Kings of Scotland were crowned of old.

The Doctor then treats of the best Season for travelling, and very judiciously observes that
it is during these months when there is no occasion for a fire--that is, just before and after
the extreme heat. In winter, Dr Kitchiner, who was a man of extraordinary powers of observation,
observed, "that the ways are generally bad, and often dangerous, especially in hilly countries,
by reason of the snow and ice. The days are short--a traveller comes late to his lodging, and
is often forced to rise before the sun in the morning--besides, the country looks dismal--nature
is, as it were, half dead. The summer corrects all these inconveniences." Paradoxical as this
doctrine may at first sight appear--yet we have verified it by experience--having for many
years found, without meeting with one single exception, that the fine, long, warm days of summer
are an agreeable and infallible corrective of the inconveniences attending the foul, short,
cold days of winter--a season which is surly without being sincere, blustering rather than
bold--an intolerable bore--always pretending to be taking his leave, yet domiciliating himself
in another man's house for weeks together--and, to be plain, a season so regardless of truth,
that nobody believes him till frost has hung an ice-padlock on his mouth, and his many-river'd
voice is dumb under the wreathed snows.

"Cleanliness when travelling," observes the Doctor, "is doubly necessary; to sponge the body
every morning with tepid water, and then rub it dry with a rough towel, will greatly contribute
to preserve health. To put the feet into warm water for a couple of minutes just before going
to bed, is very refreshing, and inviting to sleep; for promoting tranquillity, both mental
and corporeal, a clean skin may be regarded as next in efficacy to a clear conscience."

Far be it from us to seek to impugn such doctrine. A dirty dog is a nuisance not to be borne.
But here the question arises--who--what--is a dirty dog? Now there are men (no women) naturally--necessarily--dirty.
They are not dirty by chance--or accident--say twice or thrice per diem; but they are always
dirty--at all times and in all places--and never and nowhere more disgustingly so than when
figged out for going to church. It is in the skin, in the blood--in the flesh, and in the bone--that
with such the disease of dirt more especially lies. We beg pardon--no less in the hair. Now,
such persons do not know that they are dirty--that they are unclean beasts. On the contrary,
they often think themselves pinks of purity--incarnations of carnations--impersonations of
moss-roses--the spiritual essences of lilies, "imparadised in form of that sweet flesh." Now,
were such persons to change their linen every half-hour, night and day, that is, were they
to put on forty-eight clean shirts in the twenty-four hours--and it might not be reasonable,
perhaps, to demand more of them under a government somewhat too Whiggish--yet though we cheerfully
grant that one and all of the shirts would be dirty, we as sulkily deny that at any given moment
from sunrise to sunset, and over again, the wearer would be clean. He would be just every whit
and bit as dirty as if he had known but one single shirt all his life--and firmly believed
his to be the only shirt in the universe.

Men again, on the other hand, there are--and, thank God, in great numbers--who are naturally
so clean, that we defy you to make them bonâ fide dirty. You may as well drive down a duck
into a dirty puddle, and expect lasting stains on its pretty plumage. Pope says the same thing
of swans--that is, Poets--when speaking of Aaron Hill diving into the ditch,--

    "He bears no tokens of the sabler streams,
    But soars far off among the swans of Thames."

Pleasant people of this kind of constitution you see going about of a morning rather in dishabille--hair
uncombed haply--face and hands even unwashed--and shirt with a somewhat day-before-yesterdayish
hue. Yet are they, so far from being dirty, at once felt, seen, and smelt, to be among the
very cleanest of her Majesty's subjects. The moment you shake hands with them, you feel in
the firm flesh of palm and finger that their heart's-blood circulates purely and freely from
the point of the highest hair on the apex of the pericranium, to the edge of the nail on the
large toe of the right foot. Their eyes are as clear as unclouded skies--the apples on their
cheeks are like those on the tree--what need, in either case, of rubbing off dust or dew with
a towel? What though, from sleeping without a nightcap, their hair may be a little toozy? It
is not dim--dull--oily--like half-withered sea-weeds! It will soon comb itself with the fingers
of the west wind--that tent-like tree its toilette--its mirror that pool of the clear-flowing
Tweed.

Some streams, just like some men, are always dirty--you cannot possibly tell why--unproducible
to good pic-nic society either in dry or wet weather. In dry, the oozy wretches are weeping
among the slippery weeds, infested with eels and powheads. In wet, they are like so many common-sewers,
strewn with dead cats and broken crockery, and threatening with their fierce fulzie to pollute
the sea. The sweet, soft, pure rains, soon as they touch the flood are changed into filth.
The sun sees his face in one of the pools, and is terrified out of his senses. He shines no
more that day. The clouds have no notion of being caricatured, and the trees keep cautiously
away from the brink of such streams--save, perchance, now and then, here and there, a weak
well-meaning willow--a thing of shreds and patches--its leafless wands covered with bits of
old worsted stockings, crowns of hats, a bauchle (see Dr Jamieson), and the remains of a pair
of corduroy breeches, long hereditary in the family of the Blood-Royal of the Yetholm Gypsies.
In wet, they grow, it is true, dark and drumly--and at midnight, when heaven's candles are
put out, loud and oft the angry spirit of the water shrieks. But Aurora beholds her face in
the clarified pools and shallows--far and wide glittering with silver or with gold. All the
banks and braes reappear green as emerald from the subsiding current--into which look with
the eye of an angler, and you behold a Fish--a twenty-pounder--steadying himself--like an uncertain
shadow; and oh! for George Scougal's leister to strike him through the spine! Yes, these are
the images of trees far down, as if in another world; and, whether you look up or look down,
alike in all its blue, braided, and unbounded beauty, is the morning sky!

Irishmen are generally men of the kind thus illustrated--generally sweet--at least in their
own green Isle; and that was the best argument in favour of Catholic Emancipation.--So are
Scotsmen. Whereas, blindfolded, take a London, Edinburgh, or Glasgow Cockney's hand, immediately
after it has been washed and scented, and put it to your nose--and you will begin to be apprehensive
that some practical wit has substituted in lieu of the sonnet-scribbling bunch of little fetid
fives, the body of some chicken-butcher of a weasel, that died of the plague. We have seen
as much of what is most ignorantly and malignantly denominated dirt--one week's earth--washed
off the feet of a pretty young girl on a Saturday night, at a single sitting in the little
rivulet that runs almost round about her father's hut, as would have served him to raise his
mignonette in, or his crop of cresses. How beautifully glowed the crimson-snow of the singing
creature's new-washed feet! First, as they shone almost motionless beneath the lucid waters--and
then, fearless of the hard bent and rough roots of the heather, bore the almost alarming Fairy
dancing away from the eyes of the stranger; till the courteous spirit that reigns over all
the Highland wilds arrested her steps knee-deep in bloom, and bade her bow her auburn head,
as, blushing, she faltered forth, in her sweet Gaelic accents, a welcome that thrilled like
a blessing through the heart of the Sassenach, nearly benighted, and wearied sore with the
fifty glorious mountain-miles that intermit at times their frowning forests from the corries
of Cruachan to the cliffs of Cairngorm.

It will be seen from these hurried remarks, that there is more truth than perhaps Dr Kitchiner
was aware of in his apothegm--"that a clean skin may be regarded as next in efficacy to a clear
conscience." But the Doctor had but a very imperfect notion of the meaning of the words "clean
skin"--his observation being not even skin-deep. A wash-hand basin, a bit of soap, and a coarse
towel, he thought would give a Cockney on Ludgate-hill a clean skin--just as many good people
think that a Bible, a prayer-book, and a long sermon, can give a clear conscience to a criminal
in Newgate. The cause of the evil, in both cases, lies too deep for tears. Millions of men
and women pass through nature to eternity clean-skinned and pious--with slight expense either
in soap or sermons; while millions more, with much week-day bodily scrubbing, and much Sabbath
spiritual sanctification, are held in bad odour here, while they live, by those who happen
to sit near them, and finally go out like the stink of a candle.

Never stir, quoth the Doctor, "without paper, pen, and ink, and a note-book in your pocket.
Notes made by pencils are easily obliterated by the motion of travelling. Commit to paper whatever
you see, hear, or read, that is remarkable, with your sensations on observing it--do this upon
the spot, if possible, at the moment it first strikes you--at all events do not delay it beyond
the first convenient opportunity."

Suppose all people behaved in this way--and what an absurd world we should have of it--every
man, woman, and child who could write, jotting away at their note-books! This committing to
paper of whatever you see, hear, or read, has, among many other bad effects, this one especially--in
a few years it reduces you to a state of idiocy. The memory of all men who commit to paper
becomes regularly extinct, we have observed, about the age of thirty. Now, although the Memory
does not bear a very brilliant reputation among the faculties, a man finds himself very much
at a stand who is unprovided with one; for the Imagination, the Judgment, and the Reason walk
off in search of the Memory--each in opposite directions; and the Mind, left at home by itself,
is in a very awkward predicament--gets comatose--snores loudly, and expires. For our own part,
we would much rather lose our Imagination and our Judgment--nay, our very Reason itself--than
our Memory--provided we were suffered to retain a little Feeling and a little Fancy. Committers
to paper forget that the Memory is a tablet, or they carelessly fling that mysterious tablet
away, soft as wax to receive impressions, and harder than adamant to retain, and put their
trust in a bit of calf-skin, or a bundle of old rags.

The observer who instantly jots down every object he sees, never, properly speaking, saw an
object in his life. There has always been in the creature's mind a feeling alien to that which
the object would, of its pure self, have excited. The very preservation of a sort of style
in the creature's remarks, costs him an effort which disables him from understanding what is
before him, by dividing the small attention of which he might have been capable, between the
jotting, the jotter, and the thing jotted. Then your committer to paper of whatever he sees,
hears, or reads, forgets or has never known that all real knowledge, either of men or things,
must be gathered up by operations which are in their very being spontaneous and free--the mind
being even unconscious of them as they are going on--while the edifice has all the time been
silently rising up under the unintermitting labours of those silent workers--Thoughts; and
is finally seen, not without wonder, by the Mind or Soul itself, which, gentle reader, was
all along Architect and Foreman--had not only originally planned, but had even daily superintended
the building of the Temple.

Were Dr Kitchiner not dead, we should just put to him this simple question--Could you, Doctor,
not recollect all the dishes of the most various dinner at which you ever assisted, down to
the obscurest kidney, without committing every item to your note-book? Yes, Doctor, you could.
Well, then, all the universe is but one great dinner. Heaven and earth, what a show of dishes!
From a sun to a salad--a moon to a mutton chop--a comet to a curry--a planet to a pâté! What
gross ingratitude to the Giver of the feast, not to be able, with the memory he has given us,
to remember his bounties! It is true, what the Doctor says, that notes made with pencils are
easily obliterated by the motion of travelling; but then, Doctor, notes made by the Mind herself,
with the Ruby Pen Nature gives all her children who have also discourse of Reason, are with
the slightest touch, easilier far than glass by the diamond, traced on the tablets that disease
alone seems to deface, death alone to break, but which, ineffaceable, and not to be broken,
shall with all their miscellaneous inscriptions endure for ever--yea, even to the great Day
of Judgment.

If men will but look and listen, and feel and think--they will never forget anything worth
being remembered. Do we forget "our children, that to our eyes are dearer than the sun?" Do
we forget our wives--unreasonable and almost downright disagreeable as they sometimes will
be? Do we forget our triumphs--our defeats--our ecstasies, our agonies--the face of a dear
friend, or "dearest foe"--the ghost-like voice of conscience at midnight arraigning us of crimes--or
her seraph hymn, at which the gates of heaven seem to expand for us that we may enter in among
the white-robed spirits, and

    "Summer high in bliss upon the hills of God?"

What are all the jottings that ever were jotted down on his jot-book, by the most inveterate
jotter that ever reached a raven age, in comparison with the Library of Useful Knowledge, that
every man--who is a man--carries within the Ratcliffe--the Bodleian of his own breast?

What are you grinning at in the corner there, you little ugly Beelzebub of a Printer's Devil?
and have you dropped through a seam in the ceiling? More copy do you want? There, you imp--vanished
like a thought!

DR KITCHINER.

SECOND COURSE.

Above all things, continues Dr Kitchiner, "avoid travelling through the night, which, by interrupting
sleep, and exposing the body to the night air, is always prejudicial, even in the mildest weather,
and to the strongest constitutions." Pray, Doctor, what ails you at the night air? If the night
air be, even in the mildest weather, prejudicial to the strongest constitutions, what do you
think becomes of the cattle on a thousand hills? Why don't all the bulls in Bashan die of the
asthma--or look interesting by moonlight in a galloping consumption? Nay, if the night air
be so very fatal, how do you account for the longevity of owls? Have you never read of the
Chaldean shepherds watching the courses of the stars? Or, to come nearer our own times, do
you not know that every blessed night throughout the year, thousands of young lads and lasses
meet, either beneath the milk-white thorn--or on the lea-rig, although the night be ne'er sae
wet, and they be ne'er sae weary--or under a rock on the hill--or--no uncommon case--beneath
a frozen stack--not of chimneys, but of corn-sheaves--or on a couch of snow--and that they
are all as warm as so many pies; while, instead of feeling what you call "the lack of vigour
attendant on the loss of sleep, which is as enfeebling and as distressing as the languor that
attends the want of food," they are, to use a homely Scotch expression, "neither to haud nor
bind;" the eyes of the young lads being all as brisk, bold, and bright as the stars in Charles's
Wain, while those of the young lasses shine with a soft, faint, obscure, but beautiful lustre,
like the dewy Pleiades, over which nature has insensibly been breathing a mist almost waving
and wavering into a veil of clouds?

Have you, our dear Doctor, no compassion for those unfortunate blades, who, nolentes-volentes,
must remain out perennially all night--we mean the blades of grass, and also the flowers? Their
constitutions seem often far from strong; and shut your eyes on a frosty night, and you will
hear them--we have done so many million times--shivering, ay, absolutely shivering under their
coat of hoar-frost! If the night air be indeed what Dr Kitchiner has declared it to be--Lord
have mercy on the vegetable world! What agonies in that field of turnips! Alas, poor Swedes!
The imagination recoils from the condition of that club of winter cabbages--and of what materials,
pray, must the heart of that man be made, who could think but for a moment on the case of those
carrots, without bursting into a flood of tears!

The Doctor avers that the firm health and fine spirits of persons who live in the country,
are not more from breathing a purer air, than from enjoying plenty of sound sleep; and the
most distressing misery of "this Elysium of bricks and mortar," is the rareness with which
we enjoy "the sweets of a slumber unbroke."

Doctor--in the first place, it is somewhat doubtful whether or not persons who live in the
country have firmer health and finer spirits than persons who live in towns--even in London.
What kind of persons do you mean? You must not be allowed to select some dozen or two of the
hairiest among the curates--a few chosen rectors whose faces have been but lately elevated
to the purple--a team of prebends issuing sleek from their golden stalls--a picked bishop--a
sacred band the élite of the squirearchy--with a corresponding sprinkling of superior noblemen
from lords to dukes--and then to compare them, cheek by jowl, with an equal number of external
objects taken from the common run of Cockneys. This, Doctor, is manifestly what you are ettling
at--but you must clap your hand, Doctor, without discrimination, on the great body of the rural
population of England, male and female, and take whatever comes first--be it a poor, wrinkled,
toothless, blear-eyed, palsied hag, tottering horizontally on a staff, under the load of a
premature old age (for she is not yet fifty), brought on by annual rheumatism and perennial
poverty;--Be it a young, ugly, unmarried woman, far advanced in pregnancy, and sullenly trooping
to the alehouse, to meet the overseer of the parish poor, who, enraged with the unborn bastard,
is about to force the parish bully to marry the parish prostitute;--Be it a landlord of a rural
inn, with pig eyes peering over his ruby cheeks, the whole machinery of his mouth so deranged
by tippling that he simultaneously snorts, stutters, slavers and snores--pot-bellied--shanked
like a spindle-strae--and bidding fair to be buried on or before Saturday week;--Be it a half-drunk
horse-cowper, swinging to and fro in a wraprascal on a bit of broken-down blood that once won
a fifty, every sentence, however short, having but two intelligible words, an oath and a lie--his
heart rotten with falsehood, and his bowels burned up with brandy, so that sudden death may
pull him from his saddle before he put spurs to his sporting filly that she may bilk the turnpike
man, and carry him more speedily home to beat or murder his poor, pale, industrious char-woman
of a wife;--Be it--not a beggar, for beggars are prohibited from this parish--but a pauper
in the sulks, dying on her pittance from the poor-rates, which altogether amount in merry England
but to about the paltry sum of, more or less, six millions a-year--her son, all the while,
being in a thriving way as a general merchant in the capital of the parish, and with clear
profits from his business of £300 per annum, yet suffering the mother that bore him, and suckled
him, and washed his childish hands, and combed the bumpkin's hair, and gave him Epsoms in a
cup when her dear Johnny-raw had the belly-ache, to go down, step by step, as surely and as
obviously as one is seen going down a stair with a feeble hold of the banisters, and stumbling
every foot-fall down that other flight of steps that consist of flags that are mortal damp
and mortal cold, and lead to nothing but a parcel of rotten planks, and overhead a vault dripping
with perpetual moisture, green and slobbery, such as toads delight in crawling heavily through
with now and then a bloated leap, and hideous things more worm-like, that go wriggling briskly
in and out among the refuse of the coffins, and are heard, by imagination at least, to emit
faint angry sounds, because the light of day has hurt their eyes, and the air from the upper
world weakened the rank savoury smell of corruption, clothing, as with a pall, all the inside
walls of the tombs;--Be it a man yet in the prime of life as to years, six feet and an inch
high, and measuring round the chest forty-eight inches (which is more, reader, than thou dost
by six, we bet a sovereign, member although thou even be'st of the Edinburgh Six Feet Club),
to whom Washington Irving's Jack Tibbuts was but a Tims--but then ever so many gamekeepers
met him all alone in my lord's pheasant preserve, and though two of them died within the month,
two within the year, and two are now in the workhouse--one a mere idiot, and the other a madman--both
shadows--so terribly were their bodies mauled, and so sorely were their skulls fractured;--yet
the poacher was taken, tried, hulked; and there he sits now, sunning himself on a bank by the
edge of the wood whose haunts he must thread no more--for the keepers were grim bone-breakers
enough in their way--and when they had gotten him on his back, one gouged him like a Yankee,
and the other bit off his nose like a Bolton Trotter--and one smashed his os frontis with the
nailed heel of a two-pound wooden clog, a Preston Purrer;--so that Master Allonby is now far
from being a beauty, with a face of that description attached to a head wagging from side to
side under a powerful palsy, while the Mandarin drinks damnation to the Lord of the Manor in
a horn of eleemosynary ale, handed to him by the village blacksmith, in days of old not the
worst of the gang, and who, but for a stupid jury, a merciful judge, and something like prevarication
in the circumstantial evidence, would have been hanged for a murderer--as he was--dissected,
and hung in chains;--Be it a red-haired woman, with a pug nose, small fiery eyes, high cheekbones,
bulging lips, and teeth like swine-tusks,--bearded--flat-breasted as a man--tall, scambling
in her gait, but swift, and full of wild motions in her weather-withered arms, all starting
with sinews like whipcord--the Pedestrian Post to and fro the market town twelve miles off--and
so powerful a pugilist that she hit Grace Maddox senseless in seven minutes--tried before she
was eighteen for child-murder, but not hanged, although the man-child, of which the drab was
self-delivered in a ditch, was found with blue finger-marks on its windpipe, bloody mouth,
and eyes forced out of their sockets, buried in the dunghill behind her father's hut--not hanged,
because a surgeon, originally bred a sow-gelder, swore that he believed the mother had unconsciously
destroyed her offspring in the throes of travail, if indeed it had ever breathed, for the lungs
would not swim, he swore, in a basin of water--so the incestuous murderess was let loose; her
brother got hanged in due time after the mutiny at the Nore--and her father, the fishmonger--why,
he went red raving mad as if a dog had bitten him--and died, as the same surgeon and sow-gelder
averred, of the hydrophobia, foaming at the mouth, gnashing his teeth, and some said cursing,
but that was a calumny, for something seemed to be the matter with his tongue, and he could
not speak, only splutter--nobody venturing, except his amiable daughter--and in that particular
act of filial affection she was amiable--to hold in the article of death the old man's head;--Be
it that moping idiot that would sit, were she suffered, on, on, on--night and day for ever,
on the self-same spot, whatever that spot might be on which she happened to squat at morning,
mound, wall, or stone--motionless, dumb, and, as a stranger would think, also blind, for the
eyelids are still shut--never opened in sun or storm;--yet that figure--that which is now,
and has for years been, an utter and hopeless idiot, was once a gay, laughing, dancing, singing
girl, whose blue eyes seemed full of light, whether they looked on earth or heaven, the flowers
or the stars--her sweetheart--a rational young man, it would appear--having leapt out upon
her suddenly, as she was passing through the churchyard at night, from behind a tombstone,
in a sack which she, having little time for consideration, and being naturally superstitious,
supposed to be a shroud, and the wearer thereof, who was an active stripling of sound flesh
and blood, to be a ghost or skeleton, all one horrid rattle of bones; so that the trick succeeded
far beyond the most sanguine expectation of the Tailor who played the principal part--and sense,
feeling, memory, imagination, and reason, were all felled by one blow of fear--as butcher felleth
ox--while by one of those mysteries, which neither we, nor you, nor anybody else, can understand,
life remained not only unimpaired, but even invigorated; and there she sits, like a clock wound
up to go a certain time, the machinery of which being good, has not been altogether deranged
by the shock that sorely cracked the case, and will work till the chain is run down, and then
it will tick no more;--Be it that tall, fair, lovely girl, so thin and attenuated that all
wonder she can walk by herself--that she is not blown away even by the gentle summer breeze
that wooes the hectic of her cheek--dying all see--and none better than her poor old mother--and
yet herself thoughtless of the coming doom, and cheerful as a nest-building bird--while her
lover, too deep in despair to be betrayed into tears, as he carries her to her couch, each
successive day feels the dear and dreadful burden lighter and lighter in his arms. Small strength
will it need to support her bier! The coffin, as if empty, will be lowered unfelt by the hands
that hold those rueful cords!

