BOOKS CHAINED TO DESKS IN CHURCHES: FONT INSCRIPTION: PAROCHIAL LIBRARIES.

It would be interesting to have a complete list of the various books still to be found chained
to desks in our ancient churches. The "Bible of the largest volume," the "Books of Homilies
allowed by authority," and the Book of Common Prayer, are ordered by Canon 80. to be provided
for every church. In some places this regulation is still complied with: at Oakington, Cambridgeshire,
a copy of a recent (1825) edition of the Homilies lies on a small desk in the nave. But besides
these authoritative works, other books are found chained to their ancient desks: at Impington,
Cambridgeshire are, or were, "three black-letter volumes of Fox's Martyrs chained to a stall
in the chancel." (Paley's Ecclesiologist's Guide, &c.) At St. Nicholas, Rochester, chained
to a small bracket desk at the south side of the west door, is a copy of A Collection of Cases
and other Discourses to recover Dissenters to the Church of England, small 8vo., 1718. The
Paraphrase of Erasmus may probably be added to the list (see Professor Blunt's Sketch of the
History of the Reformation, 10th edit., p. 130.), though I cannot call to mind any church in
which a copy of this work may now be found. In the noble minster church at Wimborne, Dorsetshire,
is a rather large collection of books, comprising some old and valuable editions: all these
books were, and many still are, chained to their shelves; an iron rod runs along the front
of each shelf, on which rings attached to the chains fastened to the covers of the works have
free play; these volumes are preserved in an upper chamber on the south side of the chancel.
The parochial library at St. Margaret's, Lynn, Norfolk, is one of considerable interest and
importance; amongst other treasures are a curious little manuscript of the New Testament very
neatly written, a (mutilated) black-letter copy of the Sarum Missal, and many fine copies of
the works of the Fathers, and also of the Reformers; these are preserved in the south aisle
of the chancel, which is fitted up as a library, and are in very good order. At Margate Church
are a few volumes, of what kind my note-book does {94} not inform me. I may also mention, in
connexion with St. Nicholas, Rochester, that the font is octagonal, and inscribed with the
following capital letters, the first surmounted by a crown:

  C . R . I . * . * . * . A . N.

The large panel on each side contains one of the letters; the font is placed close to the wall,
so that the remaining letters, indicated by asterisks, cannot now be read: the sexton said
that the whole word was supposed to be "Christian," or rather "Cristian." Beside the font is
a very quaint iron bracket-stand, painted blue and gold, "constructed to carry" two candles.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON.

P. S.--Permit me to correct an error of the press in my communication at p. 8. of your present
volume, col. 1. l. 10. from bottom; for "worn," read "won."

       *       *       *       *       *

REAL SIGNATURES VERSUS PSEUDO-NAMES.

It is pleasant to see so many of the correspondents of "N. & Q." joining in the remonstrance
against the anonymous system. Were one to set about accumulating the reasons for the abandonment
of pseudo-names and initials, many of the valuable columns of this periodical might be easily
filled; such an essay it is not, however, my intention to inflict on its readers, who by a
little thought can easily do for themselves more than a large effusion of ink on the part of
any correspondent could effect. I shall content myself with recounting the good which, in one
instance, has resulted from a knowledge of the real name and address of a contributor.

The REV. H. T. ELLACOMBE (one of the first to raise his voice against the use of pseudo-names)
having observed in "N. & Q." many communications evincing no ordinary acquaintance with the
national Records of Ireland, and wishing to enter into direct communication with the writer
(who merely signed himself J. F. F.), put a Query in the "Notices to Correspondents," begging
J. F. F. to communicate his real name and address. There in all probability the matter would
have ended, as J. F. F. did not happen to take "N. & Q.," but that the writer of these lines
chanced to be aware, that under the above given initials lurked the name of the worthy, the
courteous, the erudite, and, yet more strange still, the unpaid guardian of the Irish Exchequer
Records--James Frederick Ferguson,--a name which many a student of Irish history will recognise
with warm gratitude and unfeigned respect. Now it had so happened that by a strange fortune
MR. ELLACOMBE was the repository of information as to the whereabouts of certain of the ancient
Records of Ireland (see MR. ELLACOMBE'S notice of the matter, Vol. viii., p. 5.), abstracted
at some former period from the "legal custody" of some heedless keeper, and sold by a Jew to
a German gentleman, and the result of his communicating this knowledge to Mr. Ferguson, has
been the latter gentleman's "chivalrous" and successful expedition for their recovery. The
English Quarterly Review (not Magazine, as MR. ELLACOMBE inadvertently writes), in a forthcoming
article on the Records of Ireland, will, it is to be hoped, give the full details of this exciting
record hunt, and thus exemplify the great utility, not to speak of the manliness, of real names
and addresses, versus false names and equally Will-o'-the-Wisp initials.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR STORIES OF THE ENGLISH PEASANTRY.

(Vol. v., p. 363. &c.)

Will you allow me, through the medium of "N. & Q.," to say how much obliged I should be for
any communications on this subject. Since I last addressed you (about a year ago) I have received
many interesting contributions towards my proposed collection; but not, I regret to say, quite
to the extent I had anticipated. My own researches have been principally confined to the midland
counties, and I have very little from the north or east. Such a large field requires many gleaners,
and I hope your correspondents learned in Folklore will not be backward in lending their aid
to complete a work which Scott, Southey, and a host of illustrious names, have considered a
desideratum in our national antiquities.

I propose to divide the tales into three classes--Mythological, Humorous, and Nurse-tales.
Of the mythological I have already given several specimens in your journal, but I will give
the following, as it illustrates another link in the transmission of MR. KEIGHTLEY'S Hindustani
legend, which appeared in a recent Number. It is from Northamptonshire.

The Bogie and the Farmer.

