There was a fixedness and a tenacity about this woman's regard for her youngest child that
was, in a certain sense, very touching. It could not be termed parental affection--that is
blind and indiscriminating; it was rather a sympathetic feeling toward a younger second self,
with which, doubtless, was mingled the maternal interest. Whatever touched Hiram affected her;
she understood his plans without his explaining them; she foresaw his career; she was anxious,
hopeful, trembling, rejoicing, as she thought of what he must pass through before he emerged
rich and powerful.

Hiram visited home but seldom. Even when at Burnsville, he came over scarcely once in three
months. Often, when expecting him, his mother would sit by the window the whole afternoon,
watching for her son to arrive. Many a time was supper kept hot for him till late into the
night, while she sat up alone to greet him; but he did not come. I hardly know how to record
it, but I am forced to say that Hiram cared very little about his mother. Could he have possibly
cared much for anybody, he would probably for her, for he knew how her heart was bound up in
him. He knew it, and, I think, rather pitied the old lady for her weakness. His manner toward
her was all that could be desired--very dutiful, very respectful. So it was to his father.
For Hiram did not forget the statement of his Sunday-school teacher, which was made when he
was a very young child, about the 'commandment with promise.' Thus his conduct toward his parents
was, like his conduct generally, unexceptionable.

For Frank, the eldest, however, Hiram felt a peculiar aversion. It was a long time before the
former entertained any other feeling for his 'little brother' than one of the most affectionate
regard. By many years the youngest of the family, Hiram, while a child, was the pet and plaything
of the older ones, and especially of Frank, who in his college vacations took pleasure in training
the little fellow, who was just learning his letters, and in teaching him smart sayings and
cunning expressions. As Hiram grew up and began to display the characteristics I have already
so fully described, Frank, who was quick and sensitive in his appreciation of qualities, could
not, or at least did not, conceal the disgust he felt for these exhibitions. He took occasion
on his visits home to lecture the youngster soundly. Hiram was not demonstrative in return,
but Mrs. Meeker gave way to undue warmth and excitement in taking his part. This was when Hiram
was at the village academy. From that time, there was coolness between the brothers, increased
by the total difference of their notions, which ripened in time to settled aversion. After
Hiram went to Burnsville, they did not meet. Dr. Frank, after spending his year abroad, had
returned and accepted the appointment of demonstrator of anatomy in a medical school in Vermont.
Thence he was called to a chair, in what was then the only medical college in the city. He
was at the time about thirty-six years old, and a splendid fellow. Enthusiastically devoted
to his profession, Dr. Frank had looked to the metropolis as the field of his ultimate labors.
But he knew the difficulties of getting established, and it was not till he was assured of
a respectable foothold through his appointment that he ventured on the change. Doubtless the
fact of his having a wife and children made him cautious. Now, however, we behold him settled
in town, zealously engaged with his class at lecture hours, and making his way gradually in
public favor.

It was with some surprise that, one evening, while making a short call at Mr. Bennett's, he
encountered Hiram, who had just removed to the city. The brothers had not met for four years.
On this occasion they shook hands with a species of cordiality--at least on the Doctor's part--while
Hiram preserved a bearing of humility and injured innocence. The Doctor asked his brother many
questions. Was he living in town--how long since he had come to New York--was he engaged with
Mr. Bennett--what was he doing? Hiram returned short answers to these queries--very short--acting
the while as if he were in pain under a certain infliction. He looked up, as much as to say,
'Now, let me alone; please don't persecute me.' But the Doctor did not give the matter up.
He invited Hiram to come and see him, and told him, with a smile, to be sure and let him know
if he should be taken sick. Hiram wriggled in his seat, and looked more persecuted than ever;
he replied that his health was very good, and likely to continue so. The words were scarcely
out of his mouth, before it struck him that such an observation was a direct tempting of Providence,
to trip his heels and lay him on a sickbed for his boast. So, after a slight hesitation, he
added, 'But the race is not to the swift, brother, and I am wrong to indulge in vainglory about
anything. Life and death are uncertain; none realize it, I trust, more deeply than I do.'

'I was in hopes, Hiram, you had quit talking cant,' said Dr. Frank, in a tone of disgust. 'Take
my advice, and stop it, that is, if it is not too late.'

He did not wait for a response, but, much to Hiram's satisfaction, rose, and saying to Mrs.
Bennett that he had overstayed his time, bade a rapid 'good evening' to all, and left the room.

'It is dreadful to feel so toward a brother. It is of no use. I won't attempt to resist it.
The least we see of each other the better--but, good God, what's to become of him!' Such was
the Doctor's soliloquy as he walked rapidly on. Other thoughts soon occupied his mind, and
Hiram was forgotten. The latter, however, did not forget. The Doctor's rebuke filled his heart
with rage; still he consoled himself with the thought that his brother was an infidel, and
would unquestionably be damned. Meantime he was forced to hear various encomiums on him from
Mrs. Bennett and her daughters--[Doctor Frank, as we have intimated, was a brilliant fellow,
and in the very prime of life]--and was still further annoyed by a remark of Mr. Bennett, that
'the Doctor was doing very well; gaining ground fast; getting some of our best families.' Hiram
departed from the house in an uncomfortable state of mind. All the way home he indulged in
the bitterest feelings: so strong were these that they found expression in ominous mutterings
to himself, among which were, 'Conceited fool,' 'I hate him,' and the like.

Suddenly Hiram's thoughts appeared to take a new direction. He stopped short, and exclaimed
aloud: 'What have I done? O God, have mercy on me. God forgive me!'

When he reached his room he hastily struck a light and seized his Bible. 'I have said it--said
that word--said 'fool,' and I am in danger of hell fire, if I do belong to the church. Yes,
hell fire--oh-oh--oh, hell fire. I wish mother was here. I know what I will do. I will write
a confession, and send it to my brother to-morrow. I will abase myself before him. Yes, I will.
Oh, oh, hell fire! What will become of me!' Hiram prayed, a good portion of the night, for
a remission of the awful sentence; the bare possibility of its being carried out filled him
with terror.

At last, overcome by weariness and exhaustion, he fell asleep.

He awoke early. He lay several minutes, revolving the last night's scene. Presently his countenance
brightened. He sprang from the bed, and again turned to the dreaded text, but not with his
previous alarm. On the contrary, he was hopeful. He read the verse over carefully, and said
to him self: 'I am all right, after all. It means whosoever shall say the word to his brother.
I did not make any reply to Frank, much as he irritated me. I restrained my anger, and suffered
humiliation before him. I may have been too violent in giving utterance to these expressions,
but it is doubtful if I have even incurred any penalty, for I surely was not angry without
a cause. God has heard my prayers, and has relieved my mind in answer thereto. I shan't have
to make a confession either. Glad of that. How he would have triumphed over me!'

So Hiram went forth to his usual 'duties,' his complacency fully restored, and his faith confirmed
that he was one of the 'elect.'

CHAPTER V.

'Already she guessed who it was!'

And who could he be--the intelligent, handsome, but, as it would seem, over-bold young man,
who had presumed to place himself so confidently in her path and interrupt her walk till he
had said his say, and then disappear as abruptly as he came?

She guessed who.

The arrival of her father with the guest he was to bring proved she had divined right. For
coming up the avenue, she saw that it was the same handsome young man she had a little before
encountered. And she could perceive in her father's countenance a glowing look of satisfaction
as the two mounted the steps (Sarah was peeping through the blinds) and proceeded to enter
the house. Before they had accomplished this, however, the room was vacant. Sarah was nowhere
to be found--that is, for the moment; but in due time she presented herself, and thereupon
Dr. James Egerton--that was his name--was formally introduced to her.

'I recollect you now,' said Sarah, seriously. 'Your features have not at all changed, except
they seem larger and--'

'Older, doubtless,' interrupted the young man. 'You, too, have changed, even more than I; but
I knew you the moment my eyes fell on you.' * * *

Seven years had passed since grievous afflictions befell Joel Burns--when his wife died and
his daughter was stricken low, and he himself was brought to the very gates of death. The reader
has already been made acquainted with these circumstances, and will scarcely forget that, when
the famous medical man returned to New Haven after visiting Sarah, he despatched his favorite
student, with directions to devote himself to the case. It is known, too, with what earnestness
and skill the youth--for he was little more than a youth--performed his responsible duties.

Here I had thought to take leave of him, but as he has abruptly come on the stage as a visitor
at Burnsville, and as Sarah Burns already exhibits an incipient interest in the young doctor,
I must let the reader into the secret of his sudden appearance.

THE UNION.

VII.

RHODE ISLAND AND DELAWARE COMPARED.

THE CAUSES AND RESULTS OF THE WAR.

There are certain theories in regard to the causes of the present war, which are so generally
accepted as to have fortified themselves strongly in the principle of 'magna est veritas et
prevalebit.' Theories based, however, upon facts which have taken their rise long since the
true causes of the war had begun to work, and which, consequently, mistaking the effect for
the cause, are from their nature ephemeral, and farther from the truth than they were at their
origin. Few thinkers have looked below the surface of the matter, and the majority of Christendom,
ignoring any other past than the few brief years that have rolled over our national existence,
forgetting that great causes oft-times smoulder unseen for centuries ere they burst forth in
effects the more powerful from their long suppression, shaking the earth with the pent-up fury
of ages--forgetting these things and arguing in the present instance from the few palpable
facts found floating upon the surface of our society, by a tacit consent lay the burden of
the war upon the present generation and its immediate predecessors. Herein lies the error which
blinds the world as well to the warning of the past as to the momentous issue involved.

Where then shall we look for the cause of that antagonism in which North and South are arrayed--that
bitter hostility setting brother against brother, and father against child, dividing into two
separate portions a nation descended from the same stock, whose archives are one, all whose
associations of a glorious past are the same, and which has hitherto swept swiftly on to unparalleled
wealth and power, seemingly indissolubly united, and looking forward to the same glorious and
ever-expanding future? Not to the errors in our political system, for no faults of government
could, in a brief century, have produced such an upheaving of the foundations of society as
we now behold--could have awakened such a thunder peal as is now causing the uttermost corners
of the earth to tremble with dismay. Not to the institution of slavery, for however great a
curse it maybe to our people and soil, however brutalizing in its tendencies, however unjust
to the negro race, and opposed to all the principles of enlightenment and human progress--of
whatever crimes it may have been guilty, this last and greatest of crimes cannot be laid at
its door: for the bitterness of feeling between North and South existed long before the agitation
of slavery was dreamed of, and the latter has only been seized upon as the ready means of accomplishing
a greater design. Finally, not to any supposed desire in the Southern mind of establishing
an independent empire of the South, whose people should be homogeneous, whose individual interests
identical, and whose climate, productions, and institutions should move on in undisturbed harmony
forever. For to this last a motive is wanting. Under no government that the world has ever
known could the South have enjoyed so much freedom, such unexampled prosperity, such a rapid
growth in wealth and power, in a word, so much real happiness--which is the sum of all earthly
gifts--as under this which they are so earnestly endeavoring to tear down and blot from the
face of the earth. Men's minds do not eagerly grasp and sternly pursue an abstract idea divorced
from every consideration of self-interest, such as this would be. Even the greatest of moral
principles are indebted to self-interest for their success, and without it the sublimest of
creeds, the loftiest of principles would soon wither and die for lack of support. With every
blessing that heart could wish in the present, and with no hope through change of bettering
their condition in a practical point of view in the future, the idea of a great Southern empire,
based upon such uncertain possibilities, would soon have disappeared from the Southern mind,
even if it had ever existed.

Nay; the true cause is beneath and behind all these, taking its rise from the very foundations
of English society in the dark ages, from the establishment of classes and distinctions of
rank. In English history this principle reached its culmination in the wars of the Parliament,
that great political tempest which changed the whole destiny and guided the future of that
powerful nation, making it, as it is to-day, the dominant race of the old world. Its greatest
development, however, was reserved for our day and our land. The England of the subsequent
era was a new government, a new people. She reaped her harvest of good from her gigantic struggles,
and so must we reap our harvest from ours. From the moment when the first settlers set foot
upon our shores our inevitable destiny was foreshadowed; the seeds of the 'Great Rebellion'
were even then deeply implanted, and all causes have since that day worked together for its
fulfilment. We too must be purified by fire and sword; and may we not hope that our beloved
country may emerge from the slaughter, the ruin, and the conflagration, more prosperous, more
powerful than ever before, and casting off the slough of impurity that has for long years been
hardening upon her, renovated and redeemed by the struggle, sweep majestically on to a purer
and nobler destiny than even our past has given promise of, and attain a loftier position than
any nation on earth has yet acquired?

The intimate relation of the feudal ages, between baron and retainer, established at first
upon principles of individual safety and the public weal, soon degenerated into that of noble
and serf. That which at first was but an honorable distinction between knight service on the
one hand, and protection and patronage on the other, became, in the course of time, the baser
relation of haughty assumption and oppression on the one hand, and the most abject servitude
on the other. Descended from the same stern Saxon stock, separated only by purely artificial
barriers, by the fortuitous circumstance of birth, the sturdy peasant could ill brook the tyranny
of the privileged class--those 'lords rich in some dozen paltry villages.' That stern independence
which has ever been the prominent characteristic of the Saxon mind, revolted at the palpable
injustice of the relation of lord and serf. The aristocracy, on the contrary, fortified in
their arrogance, at a later day, by the irruption of the Norman nobility, with their French
ideas and customs, so far from yielding to the signs of the times and the light of dawning
civilization, refused to give up one tittle of their assumed prerogatives, and became even
more exacting in their demands, more lofty in their supposed superiority. Thus was engendered
between the two classes a bitterness of feeling, a spirit of antagonism, that has never yet
disappeared. Patiently did the peasant bide his time, and only when the tyranny became utterly
unendurable did the movement commence which has swept downward to our time, reiving away one
by one the miscalled privileges of the favored class, bringing, year by year, the condition
of the laborer nearer to the true balance of society.

This antagonism reached its height in the Cromwellian era, and the men of those times stand
forth upon the page of history as the exponents of the great principles of civil freedom. The
strength of the Cromwellian party lay in the fact that it was composed almost entirely of the
laboring and the middle classes, the bone and sinew of the land. Then for the first time in
English history the world saw the plebeian pitted against the aristocrat, and the strife which
ensued involved not so much the question of kingly prerogative and the 'divine right' of monarchs,
as the pent-up feuds of ages--feuds arising from the most flagrant injustice and wrong on the
one hand and forced submission on the other. This of itself was enough to lend to the contest
a character of ferocity which well might make civilization turn pale. But even this bitterness
was slight compared with that engendered by the religious element of the war. The history of
the world has shown no wars so cruel and bloody, no crimes so heinous, no hatred so deep seated
and abiding as those produced by religious differences. Strange that it should be so! Strange
that the sacred cause whose province is to develop the purest and holiest emotions of the soul,
should call forth and develop the fiercest, the darkest, and most unrelenting passions of the
human heart! Yet so it proved in this instance. Their fierce, fanatical enthusiasm was a powerful
element of strength to the Roundheads, which was lacking to the effeminate, corrupt, and godless
Cavaliers. With such an auxiliary the struggle could not be doubtful; religious fanaticism
carried the day.

In the years succeeding the Restoration, the evil effects of this religious antagonism were
modified by mutual concessions, and in time almost disappeared under the impartial administration
of a government founded upon a firmer basis than ever before, and more consonant to Saxon ideas
of justice and social equality. But with us of America there was no such modification, for
from the midst of this time of war and tumult, of savage hatred and unrelenting persecution,
American society sprang. Our country was settled by representatives of these two extremes of
English society, and in their choice of abode the hand of Providence is distinctly seen laying
the foundations of our struggle of to-day, which is to prove the refining fire, the purification
and regeneration of our race. Had the Cavaliers landed upon the shores of New England, the
bracing winds of that northern clime, the rugged and intractable nature of the soil, the constant
presence of dangers from the fiercer Indian tribes of the north, and the absolute necessity
of severe and incessant toil to support existence, would have awakened and developed in them
those manly qualities which for centuries had lain dormant in their souls--would have imparted
new strength to their frames, new vigor and energy to their modes of thought; their indolence
and effeminacy would soon have passed away, and they would have constantly approached, instead
of departing from the true Puritan type. While, on the other hand, the stern, rough, almost
savage peculiarities of the Puritan would in like manner have been modified by the genial influences
of a southern sun and a teeming soil, and while the severe training and rough experiences of
centuries, as well as their peculiar mental constitution, would have prevented their entirely
lapsing into the indolence and effeminacy of the Cavalier, the whole race would nevertheless
have undergone a softening change, bringing them in their turn nearer the type of their old
antagonists; and thus each succeeding year would have seen these two extremes of social life
drawing nearer and nearer together, and at last blending in dull, contented, plodding harmony.
And the result would doubtless have been the degeneration of the entire race, and our fate
that of the Spanish American colonies.

But this did not suit the designs of Providence. It was His purpose that there should be here
those manifold social and political conflicts which are the life of a great nation--which are,
indeed, the motive power to the wheels of human progress. A great problem in human destiny
was here to be wrought out; a powerful nation was to arise, bearing within itself the elements
of its own continual purification. The Cavalier landed upon the shores of Virginia, and spread
his settlements southward. The influence of climate upon both the physical and mental constitution
of man is well known. The enervating climate of the 'sunny South,' the soil fruitful beyond
a parallel, pouring forth its products almost spontaneously, and, above all, the 'peculiar
institution,' which released the planter from the necessity of toil, all tended to aggravate
the peculiarities of mind and body which the settlers inherited from their ancestors; and the
result has been a race which, while it presents here and there an example of brilliant, meteoric
genius, is, in the main, both intellectually and physically inferior to the hardy denizens
of the North and West. The same influences have fostered the aristocratic notions of the early
settlers of the Southern States. With every element of a monarchy in their midst, the Gulf
States have long been anything but a republic. De Bow, when, a few years since, he broached
in his Review the idea, and prophesied the establishment of a monarch in our midst, was but
giving expression to a feeling which had long been dominant in the Southern heart. All their
institutions, associations, and reminiscences have tended steadily to this result, and in the
event of the success of the rebellion, it needs but some bold apostle to take upon himself
the propagation and execution of the plan, to make the idea a startling reality. And herein
lies the secret of the sympathy of the English aristocracy with the confederates in their struggle
for independent existence.

The Puritan, guided by the hand of God, planted his future abode on the shores of New England,
a land truly congenial to him, whose whole mental and physical life had hitherto been one of
storm and tempest. Nor could a fitter type in the human race have been found than he to tame
the rock-crowned hills, to brave the rigors of such winters as Old England never knew, and
the lurking dangers at the hands of a powerful and jealous race. Here was no place for indolence
and luxurious ease. Only by the most persevering and painful labors could the bleak hills and
gorge-like valleys be made to yield the fruits of life. Only by unremitting energy and the
most patient self-denial could starvation be kept from his door, while constant watchfulness
and never-flinching courage were required to ward off the many dangers that beset his path.
Nature herself seemed pitted against him to contest every inch of his progress. But his nature
was as stern and rough as that of the land he had come to tame. Accustomed to move steadily
on in the pursuit of some one great purpose, to surmount every obstacle and crush every impediment,
looking neither to the right nor the left, nor even pausing to pluck the flowrets that bloomed
by the wayside, there was for him no such word as fail. Here the unbounded resources and exhaustless
energy of body and mind found fitting scope. What to ordinary men would seem but hopeless,
cheerless toil, was to him but pastime. The Puritan was just the man for New England, and New
England the land for the Puritan. How he succeeded let all Christendom proclaim, for his works
were not for himself nor his immediate posterity, but for the whole world.

But it is not so much with the results of his labors that we have to do as with their effects
upon himself and his posterity. Here, as in the case of the Cavalier, every circumstance of
his life tended to aggravate the hereditary peculiarities of his class. The success of his
enterprise, the crowning of those hopes which had led him to cast off all ties of the old world,
the lofty spirit which induced him to reject all external aid, and, above all, the crisp, free
mountain air he breathed, begot in him a feeling of independence and superiority, and, at the
same time, ideas of social equality, which have made themselves manifest to all time. Where
all were toilful laborers, and few possessed more than a sufficiency of worldly goods to provide
for the necessities of the day, there was no room for the distinctions of rank. Power, with
them, resided in the masses; the results of their labor were common stock; their interests
were one and the same. Add to these facts their ancient hatred of the aristocracy, and we have
the influences Under which New England has ever tended to republicanism. The Puritan race has
ever been republican to the core, and this is one great and vital respect in which they have
continually diverged from their Southern brethren.

Yet with, all their virtues, with all their sublime heroism, was blended an inordinate, morbid
selfishness. Shut in within their little republic from all Communion with the outer world,
lacking the healthful influences of conflicting ideas and that moral attrition which polishes
the cosmopolitan man, enlarging his views of life and giving broader scope as well to the active
energies of the soul as to the kinder sympathies and benevolent sensibilities of the heart,
this little community became more set in their traditional opinions, and gradually imbibed
a hearty contempt for all beyond the pale of their own religious belief, which soon extended
to all without the bounds which circumscribed their narrow settlements. Living alike, thinking
alike, feeling alike, placing under solemn ban all speculations in religion, and even all research
into the deeper mysteries of natural science, grinding with iron heel the very germ of intellectual
progress, in their blind presumption they would have closed the doors of heaven itself upon
all mankind save the called and elected of the Puritan faith. This intellectual life was one
of mere abstractions, and as a natural consequence all their thoughts and emotions, their joys
and sorrows, their loves and hatreds, became morbid to the last degree. But the bent bow will
seek release; the reaction came at last, and the astonishing mental progress of the New England
of to-day, the wild speculation upon all questions of morals and religion, rivalling in their
daring scope the most impious theories of the German metaphysicians, which our New England
fosters and sustains, and above all, the proverbial trickery of the Yankee race, are but the
reaction of the stern and gloomy tenets of that olden time which would have made of our earth
a charnel house crowded with mouldering bones.

In the midst of this intensely morbid Puritan life, no more eligible object could have been
presented for the exercise of their bitterest antipathies than the descendants of their ancient
enemies, the Cavaliers,--who were already rivalling them in the South, and who, as we have
shown, were equally ready to cast or lift the gauntlet. Occupying the very extremes of religious
faith, radically differing in their views of public polity, of bitterly hostile antecedents
and traditions, the one looking upon the other as an outcast from salvation itself, and the
other in its turn nothing loth brands its opponent with the epithets of surly, hypocritical,
psalm-singing knaves, then as now, and as they have ever been since the foundations of our
country were laid, these two classes stood arrayed against each other in every respect save
that of open, carnal warfare. The bitterest of foes in the beginning, diametrically opposed
in every possible respect, each has plodded on in his own narrow path, and the two paths have
continually diverged to our day, and the present outbreak is but as the breaking of a sore
which has long been ripe. It is of such antagonisms that nations are made: it is but differences
such as these that have separated the common stock of Adam into so many distinct races and
nationalities through all the ages of the world. Such a result we see to-day in our country,
in two separate and distinct nations, hitherto nominally united under one form of government--nations
as distinct as ever were the Roman and the Greek. As the Cavalier of the Cromwellian era was
a horror to the pharisaical Puritan, and the Puritan in his turn a contempt and an abomination
to the reckless, pleasure-hunting Cavalier, so to-day is the 'psalm-singing, clock-peddling
Yankee' a foul odor to the fastidious nostrils of the lordly Southerner, and the reckless prodigal,
dissipated and soul-selling planter a thorn in the flesh of Puritan morality. The Yankee is
to the Southerner a synonym for all that is low and base and cunning, and the Southerner is
to the Yankee the embodiment of all worthlessness and crime. The same spirit is observable
in those Northern States which were settled by a mixed emigration from both portions of the
country, and the fact is well known that even in those loyal Western States where the Southern
element most predominates, is found the bitterest hatred and denunciation of the Yankee; so
that he is no sage who draws the line east and west, north and south, and in every mixed community,
between the descendant of the Cavalier, and the man of Puritan stock. Shall any one say that
this is but the result of the war? Where then does history record a like instance? Where can
be found the record of a civil war where the people, descended from a common stock and bound
together by a common interest, sprang with such alacrity to the call to arms, and waged a war
so relentless and cruel even in its very commencement, except there had been radical antagonisms
existing through a long series of years?

But it may be urged that a large portion of the Southern population are emigrants from the
New England States, and consequently of Puritan descent, and that while this very class of
slaveholders are notoriously the most cruel and exacting of masters, they stand in the front
ranks of secession and are the most deadly enemies of the North. True, but the enmity of this
class, wherever it exists, is that of the most sordid, unprincipled self-interest. Gold is
their god, and all things else are sacrificed to the unhallowed lust. But this enmity is oftentimes
assumed from motives of self-preservation. Objects of suspicion to the Simon-Pure Southerner
from the very fact of their nativity, and visited with the most horrible retribution wherever
they have shown a leaning toward the land of their birth, they find it necessary to out-herod
Herod in order to preserve their social status and the possessions which are their earthly
all. Hence, to disarm suspicion, often those have been made to take the more prominent positions
in this tragic drama who, did circumstances permit the expression of their true sentiments,
would be found to be at heart the most truly loyal citizens of the South. Another class--and
this includes more particularly the descendants of Northern emigrants--born and bred among
the moral influences of Southern society, imbibing all the ideas and prejudices of their surroundings,
lose their identity as effectually as the raindrop is lost in the surging billows of the ocean.
Drinking in with their years the prevailing hatred of the very stock from which their own descent
is derived, they become part and parcel of the people among whom their lot is cast, and ordinarily
run to the farthest extreme of the new nationality. Herein is seen the fallacy of the ancient
maxim--Coelum, non animum mutant qui trans mare currant. The all-potent influence of self-interest,
the overshadowing sway of undisputed dogmas, soon sweep away the lessons and prejudices of
earlier years, and effectually transform the foreign born into the citizen of the new clime
and nation. Were the population of the South more equally divided between the Northern and
Southern born, this would not be the case; but in all the slave-holding States the Cavalier
element so overwhelmingly predominates as to crush before it all opposing ideas, prejudices,
and opinions.

This radical antagonism, smouldering for years, found its first great expression in the Tariff
question of 1832, which was not so much a question of State rights and agricultural interests
as the vehicle, or rather the weapon of the pent-up hatred of years. General Jackson saw the
true bearing and origin of the dispute; and when he prophesied that the slavery question would
be the next issue sprung by the designing revolutionists of the South, he did but show his
appreciation of the great fact of the moral and physical antagonism between the descendants
of the Cavalier and the Puritan. He might, and probably would, had circumstances required it,
have gone farther, and prophesied, that should the slavery question in its turn be settled,
some other cause of dispute would soon be found and grasped by the apostles of separation and
revolution, as a means for the accomplishment of their great design. He alone, of all our statesmen,
with his far-seeing eye saw and appreciated the tremendous issue involved. He was sternly opposed
to the compromise which was subsequently made, well knowing that if the question were not then
settled, at once and forever, the flame was but smothered for a time, to break out again in
future years, with far greater vehemence. His policy was to crush the malcontents by the strong
arm of power, to make such a display of the strength and resources of the Federal Government,
such an example of the fate which must ever await treason in our midst, and, above all, such
a convincing manifestation of the utter hopelessness of all attempts to destroy a great and
good government, deriving its powers and functions from the people themselves, as to put forever
at rest the machinations of traitors and anarchists. Experience has shown that he was right,
and shown us, too, that if, in this our day, a second compromise be adopted, and a peace patched
up upon a basis ignoring the true cause of dispute, or of oblivion to the past, or, worst of
all, of yielding, on our part, one jot or tittle to the demands of our antagonists, as sure
as there is a God in heaven--as sure as that retribution follows the sinner, the war will have
to be fought over again, more savage, more bloody, and more desolating than ever, by our posterity,
if not even in our own time. Fought over again, not once, but again and again, as often as
the revolving wheel of human progress and enlightenment shall bring to the surface the black
waters of the steaming cesspool below.

But what of the result? Watchman! what of the night? The night is stormy and dark; men's hearts
are failing them for fear; those who see clearly in the day time, now grope helplessly in the
dark; the blind are leading the blind; society is at a stand still, waiting and watching for
the coming day. Yet afar off in the east the patriot's eye may even now see the first faint
streaks of that light which shall usher in the golden dawn.

The result, in the event of the success of the North, is too palpable to require a moment's
thought, involving, as it does, every possible blessing to our race, every advantage to the
progress of the new theories of social equality, and of man's capacity for self-government.
But what in the other event? The evils would be legion--countless in number and direful in
effect, not to us alone, but to the whole American race. First and foremost is that hydra precedent.
We are fighting, not alone for the stability of any particular form of government, not alone
for the sustaining of an administration, not alone for the upholding of those God-given ideas
which have made America the most favored land on earth; but against a PRECEDENT, which involves
and would destroy them all. Precedent which is, and ever has been, all powerful to overturn
theories and systems, to topple kings from their thrones, and plunge nations into slavery.
Of all dangers which every liberal form of government has to shun, none is so deadly as this.
Grave and venerable judges, sages though they may be, rest upon it, and thereon base decisions
involving millions of property, and sometimes life itself. And though, as Blackstone has declared,
a bad precedent in law is comparatively harmless, inasmuch as succeeding judges are in no wise
bound by it, but free, and in fact bound to decide the law as it was before the evil precedent
was established, and to interpret it as it ought to be, yet in national affairs this is not
so. No matter how bad or absurd a precedent may be, designing men will be found in all ages
and climes to avail themselves of it, honestly or dishonestly. Men's minds are not constructed
alike, and that which seems evil to one is to another good. The foulest of all theories, the
basest of systems, the most suicidal of policies, will at all times find sincerely honest adherents
and supporters. Individuality of mind admits a million of shades and degrees of right and wrong.
Moreover, an idea once broached before the people, no matter how detestable it may at first
appear, is already halfway advanced upon the road to execution. Thousands of criminals have
been executed for crimes their minds would never have conceived save for the suggestion of
some artful apostle of evil. Give me but a precedent once firmly established, I care not how
bad it may be, and I shall revolutionize the world.

And what is the precedent against which we have to contend? It is that of separation. If secession
would stop where it has begun, if the result of our defeat were to be but two great republics
of the North and South upon our continent, there would still be room for the development of
both, and we might even look forward to such a peace with some degree of complacency, and with
hope for a future of happiness and prosperity. But it will not stop here. As surely as that
an overruling Providence directs the affairs of men, the movement will go on until there are
as many separate and hostile republics as there are States in our Union. The mutterings of
separation--which have already been heard in the West, are but the precursors of the storm
which can only be forever allayed by the triumph of our arms in the present contest. The slightest
disagreement between the East and the West would soon be made a pretext for secession: the
least dispute or conflicting interest between any two great portions of our country would find
a speedy remedy in separation. The West would divide from the East, the Atlantic States from
the Lake States, the Mississippi States from the Pacific, the North Pacific States from the
South Pacific, and where would be the end? Already the great West has learned her own gigantic
strength, which before she knew not that she possessed, and if the time should come when her
interests should apparently point in a different direction from those of the East, with such
a precedent before her, would she not avail herself of that new-found strength? Already the
soldiers of the West have begun to sneer at the achievements of those of the East, and to consider
themselves the braver and the manlier of the two. Are these not the signs of the times? And
do they not betoken a future of anarchy in the event of the establishment of this most pernicious
and monstrous of doctrines?

And is it to be expected that these many republics, monarchies, aristocracies, or whatever
form they may take, will long remain at peace with each other? Ask the muse who presides over
the pages of history how often has her pen been called upon to record the circumstance of separate
nations, of the same blood and antecedents, lying quietly and peaceably beside each other.
Family quarrels are proverbially the most bitter of all on earth, and family hatreds the most
unrelenting. It was but the ties of kin that lent such a character of ferocity to our wars
with England and to the present contest with the South.

But what shall we say of that scheme which aims at a reconstruction of the Union by leaving
New England out? Simply this: that, aside from any considerations of policy--without attempting
to argue the question of a good or evil result from such a movement, the answer is plain enough:
you cannot do it--and that which is impossible needs no argument for or against. The energy
and activity of mind and body, the lofty independence, the firm self-reliance, the dogged determination
and undaunted adherence to a great and high purpose, of the whole Saxon race, is concentrated
in the people of that mountain land. Theirs have been the heads to plan and the hands to execute
every great work we have accomplished since the foundation of our nationality. The railroads
and canals and telegraphs of the North, the South, the East, and the West are their work; and
their capital and their inventive, energetic minds still shape and control every great commercial
enterprise of our land. Their sturdy emigrants have pushed civilization across the boundless
prairies of the West, and opened the primeval forests of the Pacific States. Go where you will
on the face of the earth, and you find them there before you, and ever the same busy, tireless
apostles of progress, the leaders in every great work, and the rulers of commerce, everywhere
looked up to as the type of the executive mind, and, by the tacit consent of Christendom, intrusted
with the guidance of every enterprise requiring pluck, perseverance, and ceaseless activity.
And theirs will still be the brains to control the destinies of our race, however isolated
they may become, however they may be made the objects of distrust and contempt. Ay! shut them
out if you will, and from that moment New England becomes the Switzerland of America, the home
of great ideas and great men, the temple where Freedom shall take up her everlasting abode,
and the altar fires of Liberty shall never die away. And her people will become the priests
of that great religion which, taking its rise in a lofty appreciation of the true end of human
existence, is already bursting out all over the Christian world, in fitful flames, which shall
yet become the devouring element that shall wither and consume away oppression and kingcraft
from the face of the earth. Shut her out, then, if you will, but you cannot shut out the flame
which she shall kindle; you cannot shut out the tones of her trumpet voice, proclaiming to
the world the doctrines of eternal truth. Self-reliant, possessing within themselves every
element of success, her people can and will make their way, as heretofore, alone and unaided.
Asking no favors of the world, they will pursue the even tenor of their way, undisturbed by
the mutterings and growlings of their impotent foes, while their little republic, like a city
set upon a hill, continues to reflect from her glittering pinnacles the sunlight of heaven
to all quarters of the earth. The petty vengeance which the disunionists of to-day are attempting
to wreak upon her will recoil upon their own heads, and they themselves may yet be forced some
day to look to little New England as their redeemer from anarchy. A purely commercial people,
her interests are not circumscribed by her narrow geographical limits, but are, as well as
her tastes and sympathies, cosmopolitan. She stretches out her feelers to all parts of the
earth, wherever her wandering sons may have betaken themselves, and fastens there a little
vine or creeper whose roots are still in her own bosom. It is a part and a necessity of her
very existence, to handle and direct catholic interests. This, as well as her position in other
respects, has made her the arbiter of this nation and country, and you can no more shut her
out from participation in the affairs of this continent than you can shut in the mighty river
from its outlet to the ocean. And if you cut her off, see to it that she does not become the
little Rome whose conquering arms shall reduce all the nations of the continent to her sway.

No! New England has planted herself too deeply in the hearts of the American people--she has
sprinkled too many of her scions among the population of the West and South--to allow of a
moment's serious thought of cutting her off from our communion. The cry is but the party cry
of the designing and evil disposed, the traitors to our name and nation; and with the crushing
out of the rebellion and the restoration of our nationality; it will pass away forever.

But to return to the direct results of the war. Having shown the threatened evils of separation,
our province leads us no farther, for this comprises all the evils within the scope of man's
imagination. See, then, the issue involved: in our success lie all our hopes of future stability
and prosperity; in our failure lies simply--inevitable ruin. With such a prospect before them--with
existence itself hanging in the balance--why are the people of the North asleep? Why will they
not see the true bearings of the war in this light, and arise in all their power and strength,
determined to crush out this infamous rebellion, even at the cost of the last dollar and the
last drop of blood! Shall we grumble at the cost of the war? Shall we growl over the paltry
taxes which, even yet, are scarcely felt? Shall the father grieve for the loss of half his
wealth which goes to redeem his only son from death--his 'darling from the power of the lions'?
Shall the house-holder grumble over the reward he has offered for the rescue of his wife and
little ones from the burning house? Shall the felon begrudge the last cent of his earthly possessions
that purchases his relief from the gallows? Better that we should all be ruined--better that
the land should be entirely depleted of its youth, and the country irretrievably in debt, with
a prospect of a future and lasting peace, than a compromise now, with the inevitable certainty
of everlasting war and tumult and bloodshed, worse, a thousand times worse than that of the
South American States. Shall we make a peace now, only that we may again go to war among ourselves?
Would this not be literally 'jumping out of the frying pan into the fire'? The war men of the
North are the men of peace, and the so-called peace men are the men of eternal war; those are
they who would prolong the miseries of our country, simply by turning them in a new direction--by
turning all our hostilities into our own bosoms and against out own wives and children. Nay
I there can be no pausing now. We have everything to gain by prosecuting the war to the bitter,
even ruinous end; everything to lose by leaving the work half done. The South is said to be
fighting for its very existence; yet not by a thousand degrees can this be as truly said of
them as of us. Therefore should our earnestness, our enthusiasm, our determination, our desperation
be a thousand times greater than theirs. Do you tell me that we cannot conquer so united, so
brave, and so desperate a people? I answer, WE MUST. In the whole wide world of human destiny
there is no other road left open for us; the path to defeat is blocked by our own dead bodies.
Unless the people of the North arouse and take hold of the work with an energy, an earnestness
of purpose, to which the past bears no parallel, too late will they repent the folly of their
own supineness, their own blindness. As in the affairs of men, so in those of nations, there
is a critical point when those who hope for success must seize the winged moment as it flies
and work steadily on with singleness of aim and unchangeable, unfaltering devotion of purpose.
That moment, once past, will never return. Now is our golden opportunity, and according as
we improve or neglect it will our future be one of greatness and power or one of utter nothingness
among the nations of the earth. No subsequent time can repair the errors or failures of to-day.

Since the greater part of this article was written, the prospect of our success has immeasurably
brightened. But let us not by the fairness of the sky be lulled into a false sense of security;
let us not be again deceived by the ignis fatuus glare which plays around our banners, and
which has already so often lured us to forgetfulness and defeat. For the storm may again break
forth in a moment when we think not of it, and from a quarter where we seemed the most secure.
A single week may reverse every move upon the great chess board of strategy. There should be
no relaxation of the sinews of war until the end is accomplished. So should we be safest in
our watchfulness and strength, and, by the irresistible influence of overwhelming numbers and
might, render that permanent which is now but evanescent.

But, it will be asked, if there is between North and South an antipathy so deep seated and
of such long standing, how shall we ever succeed in conquering a lasting peace? how shall we
ever persuade the people of the South to live in amity with a race so cordially hated and despised?
The question has often been asked, but always by those faint-hearted ones whose clamors for
a disgraceful peace have added strength to the cause of our opponents. The answer is so plain
that it requires no demonstration. There is but one remedy for so sore a disease, and however
severe it may be, however revolting to the tender sensibilities of peace-loving men, the inevitable
and inexorable MUST urges it on to execution, and stands like a giant, blocking up every other
path. It is like those dangerous remedies which the physician applies when the patient's recovery
is otherwise utterly hopeless, and which must result either in recovery or in death by its
own agency rather than that of the disease. Concession has been tried in vain, 'moral suasion'
has been proved to be of no avail. The South must be shown how entirely hopeless must be every
effort, in all time, to overturn such a government as ours. They must be made to feel our immense
superiority in power and resources; they must be shown in unmistakable colors the unconquerable
might of nationality in strong contrast with the weakness of sectionalism, as well as their
own dependence upon the North; in a word, every atom of resistance must be utterly and forever
crushed out by brute force. To no other argument will they listen, as experience has proved;
and this 'last resort of kings' must be exerted in all its strength and proclaimed in thunder
tones, even though its reverberations should shake the earth to its very core. This done, and
peace once more established, the South must be, not abolitionized, not colonized, not Puritanized,
nor yet oppressed, but AMERICANIZED. They must be familiarized with those immortal principles
of justice and freedom, to which they have hitherto been strangers, which lie at the heart
of all national success among an enlightened and Christian people. They must be made acquainted
with the all-important fact that we are a nation of one blood, one common ancestry; that we
can never live at peace as separate nationalities, and that only in unity and mutual concession
and forbearance can a glorious destiny be wrought out for our common country. Then, not now,
will be the time for conciliation on our part, but yet conciliation never divided from the
utmost vigilance and a firm support of the doctrine of national supremacy, as opposed to, and
paramount to the iniquitous dogma of State rights. The people of the North must first divest
themselves of all prejudices, all hereditary antipathies, and wipe away old scores in the dawn
of a golden future. Then will our brethren of the South not be slow to respond to the proffered
peace and good will and brotherly kindness, and again we shall become a prosperous, united,
and happy people.

And what a future lies before our country! What a wealth of uncultivated fields lies waiting
for the plough of the adventurous emigrant! What unmeasured wilds wait but for the touch of
enlightened and educated labor, to blossom like the rose, to become the site of great cities
and smiling villages, the resting place of the wanderer from all quarters of the globe, the
residence of a great people, the component parts of a mighty nation whose parallel earth has
not seen since the days of the creation! It needs but ordinary human foresight to see that
here is to be the fountain head, the permanent abiding place, of four great interests, with
which we shall rule the world: manufactures, grain, cotton, and wine. The Great West is to
feed all Europe with her harvests of yellow grain; the South, with her cotton interest, is
to clothe, not Europe only, but the world; the Pacific States will be the 'vineland' of America,
furnishing the wherewithal to 'gladden the heart of man,' while the manufactures of New England
and the Middle States shall furnish the implements of labor to the brethren all over the continent,
and turn the raw material both of the South and of their own sheep-feeding hills into garments
for the toiling millions of America. Here, then, we shall produce, as no other country can,
the great staples of life; and when we add to them those considerable minor interests which
we share more equally with the rest of the world, namely, wool-growing and mining, as well
of the precious ores as of coal and the baser metals, how stupendous seem our resources, how
tremendous the influence we are to wield among the great human family! And is it a necessity
of social life that these great interests should jar? that political and commercial antagonisms
should spring up between these cumulators of the world's great stock of wealth, for no better
reason than that their hands are engaged upon a different work, or, rather, upon different
branches of the same great work of production? Nay, verily! So long as we are bound together
by a common tie of country, living and working under the same laws and institutions, such antagonisms
can only exist in the trains of designing demagogues. So far from conflicting, these great
interests will, from the very nature of the law of exchange, work harmoniously together, blending
the one into the other as perfectly fitting parts of one concordant whole. One section will
play into the hands of another, sustaining each other from the very necessity of self-preservation;
and each will find in his brother the readiest consumer of the products of his labor. Only
in the event of separation can jealousies, antipathies, and narrow-minded prejudices spring
up between the different sections, and healthy competition be degraded into low and mercenary
jobbing; only by separation can the onward march of the American race be retarded and the arm
of American industry paralyzed. Accursed, then, be the hand that aims a blow at the foundations
of our fair fabric of Liberty; thrice accursed he whose voice is raised in the promulgation
of those pernicious doctrines whose end is to lead a great people astray.

GREAT HEART.

  Great Heart is sitting beneath a tree:
  Never a horse upon earth has he;
  But he sings to the wind a hearty song,
  Leaves of the oak trees rustling along:
  'Over the mountain and over the tide,
  Over the valley and on let us ride!'

  There's many a messenger riding past,
  And many a skipper whose ship sails fast;
  But none of them all, though he rides or rows,
  Flies as free as the heart of Great Heart goes,
  Free as the eagle and full as the tide:
  'And over the valley and on let us ride!'

  Many a sorrow might Great Heart know,
  Thick as the oak leaves which over him grow
  Many a trouble might Great Heart feel,
  Close as the grass blades under his heel;
  But sorrow will never by Great Heart bide,
  Singing 'Over the valley and on let us ride!'

  'But tell me, good fellow, where Great Heart dwells?'
  In the wood, by the sea, in the city's cells;
  Where the Honest, the Beautiful, and True
  Are free to him as they are to you;
  Where the wild birds whistle and waters glide,
  Singing 'Over the valley and on let us ride!'

  Few of his fellows doth Great Heart see;
  Seldom he knows where their homes may be;
  But the fays of the greenwood are still on earth--
  To many a Great Heart they'll yet give birth;
  And thousands of voices will sing in pride,
  'All over the wide world and on let us ride!'

LITERARY NOTICES

LIFE OF CHOPIN. By F. LISZT. Published by F. Leypoldt: Philadelphia.

Liszt's Life of Chopin! What a combination of names to wing the imagination upward into the
ethereal regions of beauty, pure art, and lofty emotion! The imperial pianist discourses upon
the genius and peculiar gifts of his brother musician. Before us arises a vision of the strong
and fiery Hungarian, with clanger of steel, flash of spur, and ring of hoof, compelling his
audiences to attention and enthusiastic admiration; and also of the gentle-mannered and suffering,
but no less fiery Pole, shrinking from all rude contact, and weaving enchanted melodies and
harmonies, teeming with ever-varying pictures of tender love, hopeless despair, chivalric daring,
religious resignation, passionate pleading, eloquent disdain, the ardor of battle with the
thunder of artillery, the hut of the peasant with its pastoral pleasures, and the assemblage
of the noble, the distinguished, the beautiful, with the nameless fascinations of feminine
loveliness, the witching caprices of conscious power,--while through all and above all glows
the memory of the glorious past and mournful present of his beloved country. The book, in fact,
opens a vista into modes of life, manners of being, and trains of thought little known among
us, and hence is most deeply interesting. The style is eminently suited to the subject, and
the translation of Liszt's French is equal to the original. This is saying much, but not too
much; for when a cognate mind becomes thoroughly imbued with the spirit of an author, the transmutation
of his ideas into another form of speech becomes a simple and natural process. To those who
already know Chopin and are striving to play his music, this book will be invaluable, as giving
a deep insight into the meaning and proper mode of rendering his compositions. To those who
know nothing of him, and who are still floundering amid the fade and flimsy productions that
would fain hide their emptiness and vulgarity under the noble name of music, this life of a
true musician will reveal a new world, a new purpose for the drudgery of daily practice, and
the expenditure of time, patience, and money.

The work, however, is not alone useful for those especially interested in music, but, being
free from all repulsive technicalities, will be found highly attractive to the general reader.
It contains a subtle dissection of a deeply interesting character, sketches of Heine, George
Sand, Eugene de la Croix, Mickiewicz, and other celebrities in the world of literature and
art, together with a most vivid portraiture of social life in Poland, a land which has ever
excited so much admiration for its heroism, and compassion for its misfortunes.

Mr. Leypoldt, the enterprising publisher of this work, merits the encouragement of the American
people, inasmuch as he has not feared to risk the publication of a work deemed by many too
excellent to be generally appreciated by our reading community. He however has faith in the
good sense of that community, and so have we.

Fragmentary portions of Liszt's 'Chopin,' about 60 pages out of 202, were translated by Mr.
Dwight of Boston, and appeared in the 'Journal of Music.' Those portions were favorably received,
and all who thus formed a partial acquaintance with the work will doubtless desire now to complete
their knowledge, especially as some of the most vivid and characteristic chapters were omitted.

MY DIARY NORTH AND SOUTH. By WILLIAM HOWARD RUSSELL. T. O. H. P. Burnham. New York: O. S. Felt,
36 Walker Street. 1863. (Cloth, one dollar; paper covers, fifty cents.)

It is amusing to read over, at this stage of the war, these letters, in which the Thunderer,
as represented by Mr. Russell, dwindled down to a very small squib indeed. Few men ever prophesied
more brazenly as to the war,--very few ever had their prophecies so pitiably falsified. Other
men have guessed right now and then, by chance; but poor Russell contrived, by dint of conceit
and natural obtuseness, to make himself as thoroughly ridiculous to those who should review
him in the future as was well possible. It is, however, to be hoped that these letters will
be extensively read, that the public may now see who and what the correspondent really was,
through whom England was to be specially instructed as to the merits of this country and its
war. When we remember the advantages which poor Russell enjoyed for acquiring information,
his neglect of matters of importance seems amazing--until we find, in scores of petty personal
matters and silly egotisms, a key to the whole. He is a small-souled man, utterly incapable
of mastering the great principles involved in this war,--a man petrified in English conceit,
and at the end of his art when, like a twopenny reporter, he has made a smart little sneer
at something or somebody. He writes on America as Sala wrote on Russia, in the same petty,
frivolous vein, with the same cockney smartness; but fails to be funny, whereas Sala frequently
succeeds. He came here to write for England, not the truth, but something which his readers
expected. His object was to supply a demand, and he did it. He learned nothing, and returned
as ignorant, so far as really understanding the problems he purposed to study, as he came.
Those who can penetrate the depths of such pitiful characters cannot fail to feel true sorrow
that men should exist to whom all life, all duty, every opportunity to tell great truths and
to do good, should simply appear as opportunities to turn out a pièce de manufacture, and earn
salaries. Mr. Russell could have done a great work in these letters--he leaves the impression
on our minds that in his opinion his boots and his breakfast were to him matters of much more
importance than the future of all North America. 1863.

An entertaining little romance, which will be specially acceptable to the 'regular English
novel' devourers--a by no means inconsiderable proportion of the public. Its heroine--a beauty--moves
in English society, is presented to the Queen, is victimized by a rascally husband or two,
and visits America, where she ends her adventures--à la Marble Faun--rather more obscurely
than we could have wished, by 'enduring and suffering,' but on the whole happily, so far as
sentiment is concerned. As the story contains to perfection every element of the most popular
English novels of the day, yet in a more highly concentrated form than they usually present,
we have no doubt that its sale will be very great. The volume contains a very beautifully engraved
portrait-vignette, 'after a miniature by Thorburn,' which is worth the price of the book, and
is neatly bound. Gentlemen wishing to make an acceptable gift to novel-reading friends will
find the 'Wanderings of a Beauty' well suited to the purpose.

THE PRISONER OF STATE. By D. H. MAHONEY. New York: Carleton. 1863.

We may well ask 'what sustains the hopes of the rebels?' when such a mass of treason as this
wretched volume contains is suffered to be freely published and circulated. That the Administration
can find the force to oppose open foes in the field, and yet make no exertion to suppress traitors
at home who are doing far more than any armed rebels to reduce our country to ruin, is a paradox
for whose solution we have for some time waited, not by any means in patience.

That a Copperhead, who from his own account richly deserves the halter, should have the impudence
to publish a complaint of being simply imprisoned, is indeed amusing. But could the mass of
vindictiveness, sophistry, and vulgarity which these pages contain be simply submitted to impartial
and intelligent men, we should have little dread of any great harm resulting from them. Unfortunately
this Copperhead poison, with its subtle falsehoods and detestable special pleading, its habeas
corpus side-issues and Golden-Circle slanders, is industriously circulated among many who are
still frightened by the old bugbear of 'Abolition,' and who, like the majority in all wars
whatever, have accustomed themselves to grumble at those who conduct hostilities. Such persons
do not reflect that a great crisis requires great measures, and that in a war involving such
a tremendous issue as the preservation of the Federal Union and the development of the grandest
phase which human progress has ever assumed, we are not to give up everything to our foes because
Mr. Mahoney and a few congenial traitors have, justly or unjustly, been kept on crackers and
tough beef. When a city burns and it is necessary to blow up houses with gunpowder, it is no
time to be talking of actions for trespass.

If we had ever had a doubt of the rightfulness of the course which Government has taken in
imprisoning Copperheads, it would have been removed on reading this miserable book. A man who
holds on one page that every private soldier is to be guided by his own will as regards obeying
orders, and on another sneers at our army as demoralized,--who calls himself a friend of the
Union, and is yet a sympathizer with the enemies of the Union,--who abuses in the vilest manner
our Government and its officers in a crisis like the present, is one who, according to all
precedents of justice, should be richly punished under military law, if the civil arm be too
weak to grasp him. It was such Democrats as Mahoney, who yelled out indignantly in the beginning
at every measure which was taken to protect us against the enemy, who, when they had nearly
ruined our cause by their efforts, attributed the results of their treason to the Administration,
and who now, changing their cry, instead of clamoring for more vigor against the rebels, boldly
hurrah for the rebellion itself. It is strange that they cannot see that they are now bringing
themselves out distinctly as tories, and men to be branded in history. Do they suppose that
such a revolution as this--a revolution of human rights and free labor against the last great
form of tyranny--is going backward? Do the events of the last thirty years indicate that Southern
aristocracy and Copperhead ignorance and evil are to achieve a final victory over republicanism?
Yet it is in this faith, that demagoguism will be stronger than a great principle, that such
men as Mahoney write and live.

The work before us takes the reader not only through all the adventures and chances of the
desperate life of the llaneros or herdsmen of South America, but also gives many startling
scenes from the revolutions of Colombia, embracing an excellent biography of the truly great
general Paez, the friend and colleague of Bolivar. But when we remember that it contains such
a mass of valuable historical material, from the pen of a son of General Paez, aide-de-camp
to his father, and an eyewitness of, or actor in, some of the bloody scenes of a civil war,
and that even the description of herdsman's life is filled with deeply interesting scientific
records of the natural history and botany of our southern continent, it seems strange that
such a volume could appear under a title smacking of the veriest book-making for the cheap
Western market.

The writer, Don Ramon Paez, who was born among the people whom he describes, and was afterward
well educated in England, was probably the best qualified man in South America to depict the
life of the llaneros, of whom his father was long the literal chief. Half of his pages are
occupied with the account of a grand cattle-hunt, involving sufferings and adventures of a
very varied and remarkable description, giving the world, we believe, the best account of wild
herdsman American-Spanish life ever written. A very curious study of the character of the writer
himself is one of the many interesting traits of this volume. A love of literature, of science,
of much that is beautiful and refined, contrasts piquantly with occasional glimpses of true
Creole character, and of a son of 'the best horseman in South America,' who is too much at
home among the fierce people whom he describes to fully assume the tone of a foreigner and
amateur. In this latter respect Don Ramon seems to have been influenced by regarding as models
the works of European travellers, as well as by a very commendable spirit of modesty; for modest
he certainly is when speaking of himself, when we consider the temptations to self-glorification
which his adventures would have presented to any of the English adventurers of the present day!

The book cannot fail to be extensively read, since it is not only entertaining, but instructive.
Its sketches of the causes of the continual civil wars in South America are not only explanatory,
but may serve as a lesson to us in this country to give ourselves heart and soul to the Union,
and to crush out treason and faction by every means in our power. If the rebels and Copperheads
triumph, we shall soon see the United States reduced to the frightful anarchy of South America.

  The Value of the Union. By William H. Muller,                      633

  A Merchant's Story. By Edmund Kirke,                               642

  May Morning,                                                       657

  The Navy of the United States,                                     659

  Three Modern Romances,                                             667

  Mill on Liberty. By Hon. F. P. Stanton,                            674

  Cloud and Sunshine,                                                687

  Is there Anything in It?                                           688

  The Confederation and the Nation. By Edward Carey,                 694

  Reason, Rhyme and Rhythm. By Mrs. Martha Walker Cook,              698

  The Buccaneers of America. By William L. Stone,                    703

  Virginia,                                                          714

  Visit to the National Academy,                                     715

  Was He Successful? By Richard B. Kimball,                          719

  How Mr. Lincoln became an Abolitionist By S. B. Gookins,           727

  Cost of a Trip to Europe, and how to go Cheaply,                   730

  Touching the Soul. By Egbert Phelps, 1st Lieutenant
     19th Infantry, U. S. A.,                                        734

  Literary Notices,                                                  744

  Editor's Table,                                                    747

The July No. of the Continental will contain articles by the Hon. ROBERT J. WALKER, written
from England.