"If you are going to write letters that pull," says one successful correspondent, "you have
got to be a regular spiritualist in order to materialize the person to whom you are writing;
bring him into your office and talk to him face to face."

"The first firm I ever worked for," he relates, "was Andrew Campbell & Son. The senior Campbell
was a conservative old Scotchman who had made a success in business by going cautiously and
thoroughly into everything he took up. The only thing that would appeal to him would be a proposition
that could be presented logically and with the strongest kind of arguments to back it up. The
son, on the other hand, was thoroughly American; ready to take a chance, inclined to plunge
and try out a new proposition because it was new or unique; the novelty of a thing appealed
to him and he was interested because it was out of the ordinary.

"Whenever I have an important letter to write, I keep these two men in mind and I center all
my efforts to convince them; using practical, commonsense arguments to convince the father,
and enough snappy 'try-it-for-yourself' talk to win the young man."

According to this correspondent, every firm in a measure represents these two forces, conservative
and radical, and the strongest letter is the one that makes an appeal to both elements.

A young man who had made a success in selling books by mail was offered double the salary to
take charge of the publicity department of a mail-order clothing house. He agreed to accept--two
months later. Reluctantly the firm consented.

The firm saw or heard nothing from him until he reported for work. He had been shrewd enough
not to make the mistake of the printer who tried to sell land and so he went to a small town
in northern Iowa where a relative owned a clothing store and started in as a clerk. After a
month he jumped to another store in southern Minnesota. At each place--typical country towns--he
studied the trade and when not waiting on customers busied himself near some other clerk so
he could hear the conversation, find out the things the farmers and small town men looked for
in clothes and learn the talking points that actually sell the goods.

This man who had a position paying $6,000 a year waiting for him spent two months at $9 a week
preparing to write. A more conceited chap would have called it a waste of time, but this man
thought that he could well afford to spend eight weeks and sacrifice nearly a thousand dollars
learning to write letters and advertisements that would sell clothes by mail.

At the end of the year he was given a raise that more than made up his loss. Nor is he content,
for every year he spends a few weeks behind the counter in some small town, getting the viewpoint
of the people with whom he deals, finding a point of contact, getting local color and becoming
familiar with the manner of speech and the arguments that will get orders.

When he sits down to write a letter or an advertisement he has a vivid mental picture of the
man he wants to interest; he knows that man's process of thinking, the thing that appeals to
him, the arguments that will reach right down to his pocket-book.

A man who sells automatic scales to grocers keeps before him the image of a small dealer in
his home town. The merchant had fallen into the rut, the dust was getting thicker on his dingy
counters and trade was slipping away to more modern stores.

"Mother used to send me on errands to that store when I was a boy," relates the correspondent,
"and I had been in touch with it for twenty years. I knew the local conditions; the growth
of competition that was grinding out the dealer's life.

"I determined to sell him and every week he received a letter from the house--he did not know
of my connection with it--and each letter dealt with some particular problem that I knew he
had to face. I kept this up for six months without calling forth a response of any kind; but
after the twenty-sixth letter had gone out, the manager came in one day with an order--and
the cash accompanied it. The dealer admitted that it was the first time he had ever bought
anything of the kind by mail. But I knew his problems, and I connected them up with our scales
in such a way that he had to buy.

"Those twenty-six letters form the basis for all my selling arguments, for in every town in
the country there are merchants in this same rut, facing the same competition, and they can
be reached only by connecting their problems with our scales."

No matter what your line may be, you have got to use some such method if you are going to make
your letters pull the orders. Materialize your prospect; overcome every objection and connect
their problems with your products.

When you sit down to your desk to write a letter, how do you get into the right mood? Some,
like mediums, actually work themselves into a sort of trance before starting to write. One
man insists that he writes good letters only when he gets mad--which is his way of generating
nervous energy.

Others go about it very methodically and chart out the letter, point by point. They analyze
the proposition and out of all the possible arguments and appeals, carefully select those that
their experience and judgment indicate will appeal strongest to the individual whom they are
addressing. On a sheet of paper one man jots down the arguments that may be used and by a process
of elimination, scratches off one after another until he has left only the ones most likely
to reach his prospect.

Many correspondents keep within easy reach a folder or scrapbook of particularly inspiring
letters, advertisements and other matter gathered from many sources. One man declares that
no matter how dull he may feel when he reaches the office in the morning he can read over a
few pages in his scrapbook and gradually feel his mind clear; his enthusiasm begins to rise
and within a half hour he is keyed up to the writing mood.

A correspondent in a large mail-order house keeps a scrapbook of pictures--a portfolio of views
of rural life and life in small towns. He subscribes to the best farm papers and clips out
pictures that are typical of rural life, especially those that represent types and show activities
of the farm, the furnishings of the average farm house--anything that will make clearer the
environment of the men and women who buy his goods. When he sits down to write a letter he
looks through this book until he finds some picture that typifies the man who needs the particular
article he wants to sell and then he writes to that man, keeping the picture before him, trying
to shape every sentence to impress such a person. Other correspondents are at a loss to understand
the pulling power of his letters.

A sales manager in a typewriter house keeps the managers of a score of branch offices and several
hundred salesmen gingered up by his weekly letters. He prepares to write these letters by walking
through the factory, where he finds inspiration in the roar of machinery, the activity of production,
the atmosphere of actual creative work.

There are many sources of inspiration. Study your temperament, your work and your customers
to find out under what conditions your production is the easiest and greatest. It is neither
necessary nor wise to write letters when energies and interest are at a low ebb, when it is
comparatively easy to stimulate the lagging enthusiasm and increase your power to write letters
that bring results.

How To Begin A BUSINESS Letter

PART II--HOW TO WRITE THE LETTER--CHAPTER 5

