To come back to questions of expenditure so intimately related to questions of comfort, it
must be remembered that in an English household there are two dinners a day: one early for
the servants and children, and one late for the grown-ups; and solid dinners cost money even
in England, where at present there is no meat famine. When Germans dine late they don't also
dine early, even where there are children; while the kitchen dinner, that meal of supreme importance
here, is eaten when the family has finished theirs, and is as informal as the meal a bird makes
of berries. In a German household, living on a small income, nothing is wasted,--not fuel,
not food, not cleaning materials, as far as possible not time. The tüchtige Hausfrau would
be made miserable by having to pay and feed a woman who put on gala clothes at midday, and
did no work to soil them after that.

"Two girls," I once heard a German say to an Englishwoman who had just described her own modest
household which she ran, she said, with two maids. "Two girls ... for you and your husband.
But what, I ask you, does the second one do?"

"She cleans the rooms and waits at table and opens the door," said the Englishwoman.

"All that can one girl do just as well. I assure you it is so. There cannot possibly be work
in your household for two girls. You have told me how quietly you live, and I know what English
cooking is, if you can call it cooking."

"You see, there must be someone to open the door."

"Why could one girl not answer the door, ... unless she was washing. Then you would naturally
go yourself."

"But it wouldn't be natural in England," said the Englishwoman. "It would be odd. Besides,
if you only have one servant, she can't dress for lunch."

"Why should she dress for lunch?" asked the German. "My Auguste is a pearl, but she only dresses
when we have Gesellschaft. Then she wears a plaid blouse and a garnet brooch that I gave her
last Christmas, and she looks very well in them. But every day ... and for lunch, when half
the work of the day is still to be done.... What, then, does your second girl do in the afternoons?"

"She brings tea and answers the door."

"Always the door. But your husband is not a doctor or a dentist. Why do so many people come
to your door that you need a whole girl to attend to them?"

"Oh! They don't," said the Englishwoman, getting rather worn. "There are very few, really.
It's the custom."

"Ah!" said the German, with a long deep breath of satisfaction. "So are you English ... such
slaves to custom. Gott sei Dank that I do not live in a country where I should have to keep
a girl in idleness for the sake of the door. With us a door is a door. Anyone who happens to
be near opens it."

"I know they do," said the Englishwoman, "and when a servant comes she expects you to say Guten
Tag before you ask whether her mistress is at home?"

"Certainly. It is a politeness. We are a polite nation."

"And once, when I had just come back from Germany, I said Good-morning to an English butler
before I asked if his mistress was at home, and he thought I was mad. We each have our own
conventions. That's the truth of the matter."

"Not at all," said the German. "The truth of the matter is, that the English are extremely
conventional, and follow each other as sheep do; but the German does what pleases him, without
asking first whether his neighbour does likewise."

This is what the German really believes, and you agree or disagree with him according to the
phase of life you look at when he is speaking. You find that when he comes to England he honestly
feels checked at every turn by our unwritten laws, while when you go to Germany you wonder
how he can submit so patiently to the pettiness and multiplicity of his written ones. He vaguely
feels the pressure and criticism of your indefinite code of manners; you think his elaborate
system of titles, introductions, and celebrations rather childish and extremely troublesome.
If you have what the English call manners you will take the greatest care not to let him find
this out, and in course of time, however much you like him on the whole, you will lose your
patience a little with the individual you are bound to meet, the individual who has England
on his nerves, and exhausts his energy and eloquence in informing you of your country's shortcomings.
They are legion, and indeed leave no room for the smallest virtue, so that in the end you can
only wonder solemnly why such a nation ever came to be a nation at all.

"That is easily answered," says your Anglophobe. "England has arrived where she is by seizing
everything she can lay hands on. Now it is going to be our turn."

You express your interest in the future of Germany as seen by your friend, and he shows you
a map of Europe which he has himself marked with red ink all round the empire as it will be
a few years hence. There is not much Europe outside the red line.

"But you haven't taken Great Britain," you say, rather hurt at being left out in this way.

"We don't want it ... otherwise, ... but India ... possibly Australia." He waves his hands.

You look at him pensively, and suddenly see one of the great everyday distances between your
countryfolk and his. You think of a French novel that has amused you lately, because the parents
of the heroine objected to her marriage with the hero on grounds you were quite incapable of
understanding. The young man's work was in Cochin-China, and the young lady's father and mother
did not wish her to go so far. Never in your life have you heard anyone raise such a trivial
difficulty. You live in a dull sober street mostly inhabited by dull sober people, but there
is not one house in it that is not linked by interest or affection, often doubly linked, with
some uttermost end of the earth. You can hardly find an English family that has not one member
or more in far countries, and so the common talk of English people in all classes travels the
width of the world in the wake of those dear to them. But in 1900 only 22,309 Germans out of
a population of 60,400,000 emigrated from Germany, and these, says Mr. Eltzbacher, whose figures
I am quoting, were more than counterbalanced by immigration into Germany from Austria, Russia,
and Italy. It is true that the population of Germany is increasing with immense rapidity, and
that the question of expansion is becoming a burning one; but it is a question quite outside
the strictly home politics of this unpretending chronicle. We are only concerned with the obvious
fact that Germans settle in far countries in much smaller numbers than we do, and that those
who go abroad mostly choose the British flag and avoid their own. It does not occur as easily
to a German as to an Englishman that he may better his fortunes in another part of the world,
or if he is an official that he will apply for a post in Asia or Africa. He wants to stay near
the Rhine or the Spree where he was born, and to bring up his children there; and with the
help of the State and his wife he contrives to do this on an extraordinary small income. The
State, as we have seen, almost takes his children off his hands from the time they are six
years old. It brings them up for nothing, or next to nothing; in cases of need it partially
feeds and clothes them, it even washes them. Some English humorist has said that a German need
only give himself the trouble to be born; his government does the rest. But first his mother
and then his wife do a good deal. They are like the woman in Proverbs who worked willingly
with her hands, rose while it was night, saw well to the ways of her household, and ate not
the bread of idleness.

I have before me the household accounts of several German families living on what we should
call small incomes; and they show more exactly than any vague praise can do the prodigies of
thrift accomplished by people obliged to economise, and at the same time to present a respectable
appearance. The first one is the budget of a small official living with a wife and two children
in a little town where a flat on the fourth or fifth floor can be had at a low rent:--

                                         £   s. d.
Rent                                    20   0  0
Fuel                                     3  10  0
Light                                    1  10  0
Clothes for the man                      3   0  0
Clothes for the wife                     2   0  0
Clothes for the children                 1   0  0
Boots for the man                        1   0  0
Boots for the wife and children          1   5  0
Repairs to boots                         0  17  6
Washing and house repairs                3   0  0
Doctor                                   2   0  0
Newspaper                                0  12  0
Charwoman                                3   0  0
Taxes                                    2  10  0
Postage                                  1   4  0
Insurances                               2  10  0
Amusements                               3   0  0
Housekeeping                            45   0  0
Sundries                                 3   1  0
                                      -----------
                                      £100   0  0
                                      ===========

The fuel allowed in this budget consists of 30 cwt. of Steinkohlen at 1 mark 15 pf. the cwt.,
30 cwt. of Braunkohlen at 70 pf. the cwt., and 4 cwt. of kindling at 1 mark 10 pf. the cwt.
This quantity, 3 tons without the kindling, would have to be used most sparingly to last through
a long rigorous German winter, as well as for cooking and washing in summer. The amount set
apart for lights allows for one lamp in the living room and two small ones in the passage and
kitchen. The man may have a new suit every year, one year in winter and the next year in summer,
and his suit may cost £2, 10s. His great-coat also is to cost £2, 10s., but he can't have a
new suit the year he buys one, and it should last him at least four years. The ten shillings
left is for all his other clothes except boots, and presumably for all his personal expenses,
including tobacco, so he had better not spend it all at once. His wife performs greater miracles
still, for she has to buy a winter gown and a summer gown, a hat and gloves, for her £2. These
are not fancy figures. The miracle is performed by tens of thousands of German women every
year. They buy a few yards of cheap stuff and get in a sewing-woman to make it up, for as a
rule they are not nearly as clever and capable as Englishwomen about making things for themselves.
Your English maid-servant will buy a blouse length at a sale for a few pence, make it up smartly,
and wear it out in a month of Sundays. Your German she-official will have a blouse made for
her, and it will probably be hideous; but she will wear it so carefully that it lasts her two
years. Under-raiment she will never want to buy, as she will have brought a life-long supply
to her home at marriage. You easily figure the children who are dressed on twenty marks a year,
the girl in a shoddy tartan made in a fashion of fifty years ago with the "waist" hooked behind,
and the boy in some snuff-coloured mixture floridly braided. But the interesting revelation
of this small official budget is in its carefully planned fare made out for a fortnight in
summer and a fortnight in winter. In winter the Hausfrau may spend about 17s. a week on her
food and in summer 19s. That leaves only 2s. a month for the extra days of the month, and for
small expenses, such as soda, matches, blacking, and condiments. Breakfast may cost sixpence
a day, and for this there is to be ¾ litre of milk, 4 small white rolls, ½ lb. rye bread, 2
oz. of butter, 1 oz. of coffee. Nothing is set down for sugar, and I think that most German
families of this class would not use sugar, and would eat their bread without butter. On Sunday
they have a goose for dinner, and pay 4s. 6d. for it, and though 4s. 6d. is not much to pay
for a goose, it seems an extravagant dish for this family, until you discover that they are
still dining on it on Wednesday. Not only has the Hausfrau brought home this costly bird, but
she has laid in a whole pound of lard to roast with it, white bread for stuffing, and cabbage
for a vegetable. Pudding is not considered necessary after goose, and for supper there is bread
and milk for the children, and bread, butter, cheese, and beer for the parents. On Monday they
have a rest from goose, and dine on gehacktes Schweinefleisch. German butchers sell raw minced
meat very cheaply, and the Hausfrau would probably get as much as she wanted for three-halfpence.
On Tuesday they get back to the goose, and have a hash of the wings, neck, and liver with potatoes.
For supper, rice cooked with milk and cinnamon. Germans use cinnamon rather as the Spaniards
use garlic. They seem to think it improves everything, and they eat quantities of milky rice
strewn with it. On Wednesday my family has soup for dinner, a solid soup made of goose, rice,
and a pennyworth of carrots. For supper there is sausage, bread, and beer. By the way, this
official is not really representative, for he spends nothing on tobacco, and only a penny every
other day on beer. He cannot have been a Bavarian. His wife gives him cod with mustard sauce
on Thursday, Sauerkraut and shin of beef on Friday, and on Saturday lentil soup with sausages,
an excellent dish when properly cooked for those who want solid nourishing food. On the following
Sunday 3 pounds of beef appears, and potato dumplings with stewed fruit, another good German
mixture if the dumplings are as light as they should be. The husband has them warmed up for
supper next day. One day he has bacon and vegetables for dinner, and another day only apple
sauce and pancakes, but at every midday meal throughout the fortnight he has carefully planned
food on which his wife spends considerable time and trouble. He never comes home from his work
on a winter's day to have a mutton bone and watery potatoes set before him. In summer the bill
of fare provides soups made with wine, milk, or cider; sometimes there are curds for supper,
and if they have a chicken, rice and stewed fruit are eaten with it. But a chicken only costs
this Hausfrau 1 mark 20 pf., so it must have been a small one. I have often bought pigeons
for 25 pf. apiece in Germany, and stuffed in the Bavarian way with egg and bread crumbs they
are good eating. Fruit is extremely cheap and plentiful in many parts of Germany, but not everywhere.
We have Heine's word for it that the plums grown by the wayside between Jena and Weimar are
good, for most of us know his story of his first interview with Goethe; how he had looked forward
to the meeting with ecstasy and reflection, and how when he was face to face with the great
man all he found to say was a word in praise of the plums he had eaten as he walked. In the
fruit-growing districts most of the roads are set with an avenue of fruit trees, and so law-abiding
are the boys of Germany, and so plentiful is fruit in its season, that no one seems to steal
from them. I have talked with elderly Germans, who remembered buying 3 pounds of cherries for
6 kreuzers, a little more than a penny, when they were boys. But those days are over. The small
sweet-water grapes from the vineyards of South Germany are to be had for the asking where they
are grown, and apricots are plentiful in some districts, and the little golden plums called
Mirabellen that are dried in quantities and make the best winter compote there is. When I see
English grocers' shops loaded up with dried American apples and apricots that are not worth
eating, however carefully they are cooked, I always wonder why we do not import Mirabellen instead.

Sweetbreads in the Berlin markets were about 1 mark 10 pf. each last year, small tongues were
1 mark 10 pf. Morscheln, a poor kind of fungus much used in Germany, were 65 pf. a pound, real
mushrooms were 1 mark 50 pf., and the dried ones used for flavouring sauces were the same price.
Butter and milk are usually about the same price as with us, but eggs are cheaper. You get
twenty for a mark still in spring, and I remember making an English plumcake once in a Bavarian
village and being charged 6 pf. for the three eggs I used. A rye loaf weighing 4 pounds costs
50 pf., the little white rolls cost 3 pf. each. In Berlin last year vegetables were nearly
as dear as in London, but in many parts of Germany they are much cheaper. I know of one housewife
who fed her family largely on vegetables, and would not spend more than 10 pf. a day on them,
but she lived in a small country town where green stuff was a drug in the market. Asparagus
is cheaper than here, for it costs 35 pf. to 40 pf. a pound, and is eaten in such quantities
that even an asparagus lover gets tired of it. Meat has risen terribly in price of late years.
In the open market you can get fillet of beef for 1 mark 60 pf., sirloin for 90 pf., good cuts
of mutton for 90 pf. to 1 mark, and veal for 1 mark, but all these prices are higher at a butcher's
shop. Fillet of beef, for instance, is 2 marks 40 pf. a pound there.

The budget of a family living on £250 a year does not call for so much comment as the smaller
one, because £250 is a fairly comfortable income in Germany. Either a schoolmaster or a soldier
must have risen in his profession before he gets it; but the following estimate is made out
for a business man who does not get a house free or any other aid from outside:--

                                                £   s.  d.
Rent                                           50   0   0
Fuel                                            7  10   0
Light                                           5   0   0
Clothes--husband                                6   0   0
  "  wife                                       4   0   0
  "  children                                   2  10   0
Shoes                                           4   0   0
School fees                                     5   0   0
Washing                                         5   0   0
Repairs to linen                                2  10   0
Doctor and dentist                              5   0   0
Newspapers and magazines                        2   0   0
Servant's wages                                 9   0   0
Servant's insurance and Christmas present       2   0   0
Taxes                                           6   0   0
Postage                                         1  10   0
Insurances                                      5   0   0
Housekeeping                                   90   0   0
Amusements and travelling                      25   0   0
Christmas and presents                         10   0   0
Sundries                                        3   0   0
                                              -----------
                                             £250   0   0
                                              ===========

On examining this budget it will occur to most people that the poor Hausfrau might spend a
little more on her clothes and a little less on her presents, and as a matter of fact even
in Germany, where Christmas is a burden as well as a pleasure, this would be done. The next
budget is the most interesting, because it is not an ideal one drawn up for anyone's guidance,
but is taken without the alteration of one penny from the beautifully kept account book of
a friend. There were no children in the family, so nothing appears for school fees or children's
clothes. The household consisted of husband and wife and one maid. They lived in one of the
largest and dearest of German cities, and the husband's work as well as their social position
forced certain expenses on them. For instance, they had to live in a good street and on the
ground floor; and they had to entertain a good deal.

                                                  M. Pf.
Bread                                            180 --
Meat                                             310 95
Fish and poultry                                  98 55
Aufschnitt                                        67 25
Potatoes                                          19 10
Vegetables                                       110 50
Fruit                                             87 95
Eggs                                              83 90
Milk                                             121 85
Butter                                           195 --
Lard                                              36 55
Flour, Gries, etc.                                25 60
Sugar and treacle                                 66 20
Groceries                                         22 50
Coffee                                            67 --
Tea and chocolate                                 17 95
Drinks                                           159 10
Lights                                            30 55
Washing                                          126 80
Laundress                                         32 25
Ice                                               10 20
Coal and wood                                    170 10
Turf and other fuel                              159 25
Matches                                            3 --
Cleaning                                          60 --
Furniture                                          4 55
Repairs                                           19 50
Crockery and kitchenware                          38 --
Repairs                                           49 --
China and glass                                   30  5
Clothes--husband                                 181 20
  "      wife                                    452 85
Boots--husband                                    24 10
  "    wife                                       60 35
Linen                                             17  5
Charities                                        232 20
Rent                                            2150 --
Rent of husband's share of professional rooms    318 70
                                                ---- --
                                  Carry forward 5839 45

                                                  M. Pf.
Brought forward                                 5839 45
Fares                                             46 10
Books                                             64 25
Writing materials                                 30 50
Charwoman and tips                                85 95
Wages and servants' presents                     335 50
Papers                                            35 25
Carpenter                                        125 --
Tobacco and cigars                               165 90
Sundries                                          39 35
Photography and fishing tackle                   141 10
Music lessons                                     15 10
Medicine                                          13 80
Hairdresser                                        2 40
Presents--family                                 291 75
   "      friends                                119 --
Amusements                                       137 25
Travelling                                       736 40
Stamps                                            99 65
Entertaining (at Home)                           232 --
Charities[2]                                      24 --
Subscriptions                                    119 80
Fire insurance                                    12 30
Old age insurance                                 10 40
                                                ---- --
                                                8722 20
                                                ==== ==

There are some interesting points about this budget as compared with an English one of £436.
It will be seen that although meat is so dear in Germany the weekly butcher's bill for three
people was only 6s., fish and poultry together only 2s., and the ham sausage, etc. from the
provision shop under 1s. 6d. a week. The washing bill for the year is low, because nearly everything
was washed at home, and dear as fuel is in Germany this household spent about £16, where an
English one presenting the same front would spend £20 to £25. Observe, too, the amount spent
on servants' wages by people who lived in a large charmingly furnished flat, and had a long
visiting list. The wife, too, a very pretty woman and always well dressed, spent much less
on her toilet than anyone would have guessed from its finish and variety, for she came from
one of the German cities where women do dress well. There is nearly as much difference amongst
German cities in this respect as there is amongst nations. Berlin is far behind either Hamburg
or Frankfurt, for instance. The middle-class women of Berlin have an extraordinary affection
all through the summer season for collarless blouses, bastard tartans, and white cotton gloves
with thumbs but no fingers. In England the force of custom drives women to uncover their necks
in the evening, whether it becomes them or not, and it is not a custom for which sensible elderly
women can have much to say. But pneumonia blouses have never been universal wear in any country,
and it is impossible to explain their apparently irresistible attraction for all ages and sizes
of women in the Berlin electric cars. Those who were not wearing pneumonia blouses a year ago
were wearing Reform-Kleider, shapeless ill-cut garments usually of grey tweed. The oddest combination,
and quite a common one, was a sack-like Reform-Kleid, with a saucy little coloured bolero worn
over it, fingerless gloves, and a madly tilted beflowered hat perched on a dowdy coiffure.
These are rude remarks to make about the looks of foreign ladies, but the Reform-Kleid is just
as hideous and absurd in Germany now as our bilious green draperies were on the wrong people
twenty-five years ago, and I am sure every foreigner who came to England must have laughed
at them. On the whole, I would say of German women in general what a Frenchwoman once said
to me in the most matter-of-fact tone of Englishwomen, Elles s'habillent si mal.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Probably private charities.

CHAPTER XVIII

HOSPITALITY

If a German cannot afford to ask you to dinner he asks you to supper, and makes his supper
inviting. At least, he does if he is sensible, and if he lives where an inexpensive form of
entertainment is in vogue. But even in Germany people are not sensible everywhere. The headmaster
of a school in a small East Prussian town told me that his colleagues, the higher officials
and other persons of local importance, felt bound to entertain their friends at least once
a year, and that their way was to invite everyone together to a dinner given at the chief hotel
in the town; and that to do this a family would stint itself for months beforehand. He spoke
with knowledge, so I record what he said; but I have never been amongst Germans who were hospitable
in this painful way. Hotels are used for large entertainments, just as they are in England,
but most people receive their friends in their homes, and only hire servants for some special
function, like a wedding or a public dinner.

The form of hospitality most popular in England now, the visit of two or three days' duration,
is hardly known in Germany, and I believe that they have not begun yet to supply their guests
with small cakes of soap labelled "Visitors," and meant to last for a week-end but not longer.
In towns no one dreams of having a constant succession of staying guests, and either in town
or country when a German family expects a guest at all it is more often than not for the whole
summer or winter. You do not find a German girl arranging, as her English cousin will, for
a round of visits, fitting in dates, writing here and there to know if people can take her
in, and by the same post answering those who are planning a pilgrimage for themselves and wish
to be taken. A visit in Germany is not the flighty affair it is with us.

"This winter," says your friend, "my niece from Posen will be with us," and presently the niece
arrives and stays about three months. There is rarely more than one spare room on a flat, and
that is often a room not easily spared. In country houses there are rows of rooms, but they
are not filled by an everlasting procession of guests in the English way. When you stay in
a country house at home you wonder how your hosts ever get anything done, and whether they
don't sometimes wish they had a few days to themselves. To be sure, English hosts go about
their business and leave you to yours, more than Germans think polite. I once spent six weeks,
quite an ordinary visit as to length, with some friends who had several grown-up children.
It was a most cheerful friendly household, but one day I got into a corner near the stove,
rather glad for a change to be myself for a while with a novel for company. When I had been
there a little time the second daughter looked in and at once apologised.

"Mamma sent me to see," she explained,--"she feared you were by yourself."

It is not easy to tell your German hosts that you like and wish to be by yourself sometimes;
and if you say that you are used to it in England you won't impress them. The English are so
inhospitable and unfriendly, they will say, for that is one of the many popular myths that
are believed about us. I have been told of a German lady who has lived here most of her life,
and complains to her German friends that she has never spent a night under an English roof;
but then, she chooses to associate exclusively with Germans, whose roofs she refuses to regard
as English ones, even when they are in Kensington; and she cherishes such an invincible prejudice
against the born English that she lives amongst them year after year without making a friend.
It would be quite simple to perform the same feat in Paris, or even in Berlin, although there
you would not have such a large foreign colony to stand between you and the detestable natives.

The real difficulty in writing about German hospitality is to find and express the ways in
which it differs from our own; and certainly these lie little in qualities of kindness and
generosity. Amongst both nations, if you have a friendly disposition you will find friends
easily, and receive kindness on all sides. Perhaps, as one concrete instance is worth many
assertions, I may describe a visit I paid many years ago to a family who invited me because
a marriage had recently connected us. I had seen some of the family at the wedding, and had
been surprised to receive a warm invitation, not for a week-end and a cake of visitors' soap,
but for the rest of the winter; six weeks or two months at least. The family living at home
consisted of the parents, a grown-up son and two grown-up daughters. Some of them met me at
the station, for the German does not breathe who would let a guest arrive or depart alone.
Your friends often give you flowers when you arrive, and invariably when you go away. I cannot
remember about the flowers on this occasion, but I remember vividly that the day after my arrival
the two married daughters living in the same town both called on me and brought me flowers.
Week after week, too, they made it their pleasure to entertain me just as kindly as my immediate
hosts, taking me to concerts or the opera, asking me to dinner or supper, including me on every
occasion in the family festivities, which were numerous and lively. In some ways my hosts found
me a disappointing guest, and said so. The trouble was that I liked plain rolls and butter
for breakfast, while the daughters for days before I came had baked every size and variety
of rich cake for me to eat first thing in the morning with my coffee. I never could eat enough
to please anyone either. You never can in Germany, try as you may. Yet it was hungry weather,
for the Rhine was frozen hard all the time I was there, and we used to skate every day in the
harbour when the daughters of the house had finished their morning's work. Two maids were kept
on the flat, but, like most German servants, they were supposed to require constant supervision,
and when a room was turned out the young ladies in their morning wrappers helped to do it.
They helped with the ironing too and the cooking, and did all the mending of linen and clothes.
"A child's time belongs to her parents," said the father one day when the elder daughter wanted
to skate, but was told that she could not be spared. "I've had a heavenly time," said a girl
friend who had been laid up for some weeks with a sprained ankle; "I've had nothing to do but
read and amuse myself." The household work, however, was usually done before the one o'clock
dinner, and the afternoon was given up to skating, walks, and visits. There were not so many
formal calls paid as in England, but there was a constant interchange of hospitality amongst
the members of the family, the kind of intimate unceremonious entertaining described in Miss
Austen's novels. Every time one of the many small children had a birthday there was a feast
of chocolate and cakes, a gathering of the whole clan. The birthday cake had a sugared Spruch
on it, and a little lighted candle for each year of the child's age, and the birthday table
had a present on it from everyone who came to the party, and many who did not. Once a week
the married daughters and their husbands came to supper with my hosts, and every day when they
were not coming to supper they called on their mother, and if she could coax them to stay drank
their afternoon coffee with her. Sometimes one or two strangers were asked to coffee, for this
household was an old-fashioned one, and gave you good coffee rather than wishy-washy tea. It
made a point of honour of a Meringuetorte when strangers came, and of the little chocolate
cream cakes Germans call Othellos. But it must not be supposed that one or two strangers constitute
a Kaffee-Klatsch, that celebrated form of entertainment where at every sip a reputation dies.
A genuine Klatsch was, however, given during my stay by a young married woman who wished to
entertain her friends and display her furniture. About twenty ladies were invited, and when
they had assembled they were solemnly conducted through every room of the flat from the drawing-room
to the spick-and-span kitchen, where every pan was of shining copper and every cloth embroidered
with the bride's monogram. The procession as it filed through the rooms chattered like magpies,
for except myself every member of it had been to school with the bride, and had helped to adorn
her home with embroidered chair backs, cushions, cloths, newspaper stands, foot-stools, duster
bags, and suchlike, all of which they now had the pleasure of seeing in the places suitable
to them. By the time we sat down in the dining-room to a table loaded with cakes, the slight
frost of arrival had melted away. The strange Englishwoman no longer acted as a wet blanket,
and when she tried to converse with her neighbours she found, as she still finds at German
entertainments, that she could only do so by screaming at the top of her voice as you do in
England in a high wind or in the sound of loud machinery. Everyone was in the highest spirits,
and the collective noise they made was amazing. In Germany, when actors play English parts
or when people in private life put on English manners, the first thing they do is to lower
their voices as if they had met to bury a friend. This is the way our natural manner strikes
them, while their natural manner strikes us as easy and jolly, but tiring to the voice and
after a time to the spirit. There are quiet Germans, but when they sit at a good man's table
they must certainly either shout or be left out of all that goes on. At a Kaffee-Klatsch you
either shout or whisper, you eat every sort of rich cake presented to you if you can, you drink
chocolate or coffee with whipped cream. Nowadays you would often find tea provided instead.
When the hostess finds she cannot persuade anyone to eat another cake, she leads her guests
back to the drawing-room, and the Klatsch goes on. There is often music as well as gossip,
and before you are allowed to depart there are more refreshments, ices, sweetmeats, fruit,
little glasses of lemonade or Bowle. When you get home you do not want any supper, and you
are quite hoarse, though you have only been to a simple Kaffee-Klatsch without Schleppe. Your
friends tell you that when they were young a Kaffee-Klatsch mit Schleppe was the favourite
form of entertaining, and lasted the whole afternoon and evening. Men were asked to come in
when the Klatsch was over and a supper was provided. Those must have been proud and bustling
days for a Hausfrau with one "girl."

To be asked to dinner or supper in Germany may mean anything. Either form of invitation varies
both in hour and kind more than it does in England; but unless you are asked to a dinner that
precedes a dance you hardly ever need evening dress. Some years ago you would have written
that people never dressed for dinner in Germany except when the dinner celebrated a betrothal,
a wedding, or some equally important and unusual event. But it has become the fashion in Berlin
lately to dress for large dinners and evening entertainments. No rule can be laid down for
the guidance of English visitors to Germany, because what you wear must depend partly on the
dinner hour and partly on the ways of your hosts and their friends. Last year when I was in
Berlin I accepted a formal invitation sent a fortnight beforehand to a dinner given on a Sunday
at five o'clock. As the host was a distinguished scientific man who had just returned from
a journey round the world, it promised to be an interesting entertainment; and there were,
in fact, some of the most celebrated members of the University present. They were all in morning
dress, and their womenfolk wore what we should call Sunday frocks. The dinner was beautifully
cooked and served, and was not oppressively long. Soup began it of course, roast veal with
various vegetables followed, fish came next, lovely little grey-blue fish better to look at
than to eat, then chicken, ice pudding, and dessert. There were flowers on the table, but not
as many as we should have with the same opportunities, for the house was set in an immense
garden; and all down the long narrow table there were bottles of wine and mineral water. When
the champagne came, and that is served at a later stage in Germany than it is with us, speeches
of congratulation were made to the host on his safe return, and every guest in reach clinked
their glasses with his. After dinner men and women rose together in the German way, and drank
coffee in the drawing-room. The men lighted cigars. A little later in the evening slender glasses
of beer and lemonade were brought round, and just before everyone left at nine o'clock there
was tea and a variety of little cakes and sandwiches, not our double sandwiches, but tiny single
slices of buttered roll, each with its scrap of caviare or smoked salmon.

A ball supper or a Christmas supper in Germany consists of three or four courses served separately,
and all hot except the sweet, which is usually Gefrorenes. Salmon, roast beef or veal, venison
or chicken, and then ice would be an ordinary menu, and every course would be divided into
portions and handed round on long narrow dishes. In most German towns you are often asked to
supper, and very seldom to dinner. You never know beforehand what sort of meal to expect unless
you have been to the house before. In some houses it will be hot, in others cold. In Berlin,
supper usually offers you a dish made with eggs and mushrooms, eggs and asparagus, or some
combination of the kind, and after this the usual variety of ham and sausages fetched from
the provision shop. Tea and beer are drunk at this meal in most houses. Sometimes Rhine wine
is on the table too. The sweets are often small fruit tartlets served with whipped cream. One
menu I remember distinctly, because it was so quaint and full of surprises. We began with huge
quantities of asparagus and poached eggs eaten together. Then we had Pumpernickel, Gruyère
cheese and radishes, and for a third course vanilla ice. That was the end of the supper, but
later in the evening, just before we left, in came an enormous dish covered with gooseberry
tartlets, and we had to eat them, for somehow in Germany it seems ungrateful and unfriendly
not to eat and drink what is provided.

After dinner or supper everyone wishes everyone else Mahlzeit which is to say, "I wish you
a good digestion." Sometimes people only bow as they say it, but more often they shake hands.
I know an Englishman who was much puzzled by this ceremony at his first German dinner-party.
He saw everyone shaking hands as if they were about to disperse the instant the feast was over,
and when his host came to him with a smiling face, took his hand and murmured Mahlzeit, he
summoned what German he had at his command and answered Gute Nacht.

CHAPTER XIX

GERMAN SUNDAYS

There was to be singing in the forest on Sunday afternoon, we were told, when we arrived at
our little Black Forest town; and we were on no account to miss it. We did not want to miss
anything, for whenever we looked out of our windows or strolled through the streets we were
entertained and enchanted. From the hotel we could see women and girls pass to and fro all
day with the great wooden buckets they carried on their backs and filled at the well close
by. As dusk fell the oldest woman in the community hobbled out, let down the iron chains slung
across the street, and lighted the oil lamps swinging from them. All the gossips of the place
gathered at the well of evenings, and throughout the day barefooted children played there.
Behind the main street there were gabled houses with ancient wooden balconies and gardens crammed
with pinks. The population mostly sat out of doors after dark, and as it was hot weather no
one went to bed early. Even in the dead of night the timber waggons drawn by oxen passed through
the town, and the driver did his best to wake us by cracking his long whip. For though a Black
Forest town is mediæval in its ways, it is not restful. It may soothe you by suggestion, the
people seem so leisurely and the life so easy going; but there is not an hour in the twenty-four
when you are secure from noise. The Sunday in question began with the bustle occasioned in
a country inn by an unusual strain on its resources. There must be an extra good dinner for
the expected influx of guests, said the landlord's niece, who kept house for him, while the
wife and daughters ran a second hotel higher up the valley. We escaped to the forest, where
the morning hours of a hot June day were fresh and scented, and we were sorry we had to return
to the hotel for a long hot midday dinner. When it was over, we sat in the garden and wondered
why people held a festival on the top of a hill on such a sleepy afternoon. However, when the
time came we joined the leisurely procession making the ascent. An hour's stroll took us to
the concert hall, a forest glade where people sat about in groups waiting for the music to
begin. Barrels of beer had been rolled up here, and children were selling Kringel, crisp twists
of bread sprinkled with salt. There were more children present than adults, and we observed,
as you nearly always will in Germany, that though they belonged to the poorer classes they
wore neat clothes and had quiet, modest manners. The older people often let them drink out
of their glasses, for it was a thirsty afternoon, and when the singing began the children joined
in some of the songs. The occasion of the festival was the friendly meeting of several choirs,
and they sang fine anthems as well as Volkslieder. The effect of the music in the heart of
the forest was enchanting, and we stayed till the end. These choral competitions or reunions
often take place on a Sunday in Germany, and in summer are often held in an inn garden. They
bring some custom to the innkeeper, but drunkenness and disorder are almost unknown. In fact,
all the cases of drunkenness I have seen in Germany have been in the Munich comic papers. You
never by any chance hear of it as you do in England amongst people you know, and you may spend
hours at the Berlin Zoo on a Whit-Monday and see no one who is not sober. University students
get drunk and have fights with innkeepers and policemen, but that is etiquette rather than
vice. Next day they suffer from Katzenjammer, but feel that they are upholding ancient tradition.
Real intemperance is found almost entirely amongst the dregs of the big cities and the lowest
class of peasants.

In Berlin the better class of artisans and small tradespeople escape from their flats on Sundays
to their allotment gardens. You see whole tracts of these gardens on the outskirts of the city,
and many of them have some kind of summer house or rough shelter. Here the family spends the
whole day in fresher air, and presumably finds out how to grow the simpler kinds of flowers
and vegetables. Those who have no garden and can afford a few pence for fares go farther afield.
They carry food for the day in tin satchels, or rolls that look as if they ought to accompany
butterfly nets and contain entomological specimens. But they are usually in the hands of a
stout alpaca-clad middle-class mater-familias, who looks rather anxious and flustered while
she herds her flock and hunts for a garden with the announcement, "Hier können Familien Kaffee
kochen." There for a trifling indemnity she can be accommodated with seats, cups and saucers,
and hot water; just as people can in an English tea-garden. Provisions she has with her in
her Pickenick Rolle. If fate takes you to Potsdam on a fine summer Sunday, you will think that
the whole bourgeoisie of Berlin has elected to come by the same train and steamer, and that
everyone but you has brought food for the day in a green tin. You need not expect to find a
seat either in the train or the steamer at certain hours of the day, and as you stand wedged
in the crowd on the dangerously overladen boat, and look about you as best you can at the chain
of wooded lakes, you wonder how it is that such overcrowding is permitted in a police-governed
land. At home we take such things for granted as part of our system or want of system. But
in Germany the moment you cross the frontier a thousand trifles make you feel that you are
a unit in an army, drilled and kept under by the bureaucracy and the police. It surprises you
to see an unmanageable crowd in a train or on a steamer, much as it would surprise you to see
soldiers swarm at will into a troopship. You expect them to march precisely, each man to his
place. And in Germany this nearly always happens in civil life; while even on a Sunday or a
public holiday the mob behaves itself. At the Berlin Zoo, for instance, there are such masses
of people every Sunday that you see nothing but people. It is impossible, or rather would not
be agreeable, to force your way through the crowd surrounding the cages. But the people are
interesting, and it is to see them that you have ventured here. You soon find, however, that
it is not a venture at all. No one will offend you, no one is drunken or riotous. The gardens
are packed with decent folk, mostly of the lower middle classes, and the only unseemly thing
you see them do is to eat small hot sausages with their fingers in the open-air restaurants.

Sunday is the great day of the week at German theatres. In all the large towns there are afternoon
performances at popular prices, and this means that people who can pay a few pence for a seat
can see all the great classical plays and most of the successful modern ones; and they can
hear many of the great operas as well as a variety of charming light ones never heard in this
country. On one Sunday afternoon in Berlin, Hoffmann's Erzählungen was played at one theatre,
and at others Gorky's Nachtasyl, Tolstoy's Power of Darkness, Hauptmann's Versunkene Glocke,
the well known military play Zapfenstreich, and Lortzing's light opera Der Waffenschmied. The
star players and singers do not usually appear at these popular performances, and the Wagnerian
Ring has, as far as I know, never yet been given. But on Sunday afternoons all through the
winter the playhouses are crowded with people who cannot pay week-day prices, and yet are intelligent
enough to enjoy a fairly good performance of Hamlet or Egmont; who are musical and choose a
Mozart opera; or who are interested in the problems of life presented by Ibsen, Gorky, Tolstoy,
or their own great fellow-countryman Gerhardt Hauptmann. When summer comes, as long as the
theatres are open the whole audience streams out between the acts to have coffee or beer in
the garden, or when there is no garden, in the nearest restaurant; and then comes your chance
of appraising the people who take their pleasure in this way. They look for the most part as
if they belonged to the small official and shop-keeper class. If the play is a suitable one,
there are sure to be a great many young people present, and at the State-supported theatres
these Sunday performances are such as young people are allowed to see.

In the evening the Sunday play or opera is always one of the most important of the week; the
play everyone wishes to see or the opera that is most attractive. A Wagner opera is often played
on a Sunday evening in the theatre that undertakes Wagner. The smaller stages will give some
old favourite, Der Freischütz, Don Juan, Oberon, or Die Zauberflöte. In fact, all through the
winter the upper and middle classes make the play and the opera their favourite Sunday pastime.
The lower classes depend a good deal on the public dancing saloons, which seem to do as much
harm as our public-houses, and to be disliked and discouraged by all sensible Germans.

So far this account of a German Sunday suggests that Germans always go from home for their
weekly holiday, and it is true that when Sunday comes the German likes to amuse himself. But
he is not invariably at the play or in inn gardens. It is the day when scattered members of
a family will meet most easily, and when the branch of the family that can best do so will
entertain the others. Some years ago in a North German city I was often with friends who had
a dining-room and narrow dinner table long enough for a hotel. The host and hostess, when they
were by themselves, dined in a smaller room, sitting next to each other on the sofa; but on
Sundays their children and grandchildren, some spinster cousins, some Stammgäste (old friends
who came every week) all met in the drawing-room at five o'clock, and sat down soon after to
a dinner of four or five courses in a long dining-room. It was a company of all ages and some
variety of station, and the patriarchal arrangement placed the venerable and beloved host and
hostess side by side at the top of the room, with their friends in order of importance to right
and left of them, until you came, below the salt as it were, to the Mamsells and the little
children at the foot of the table. But the Mamsells did not leave the room when the sweets
arrived. Everyone ate everything, including the preserved fruits that came round with the roast
meat, and the pudding that arrived after the cheese. In those days it was not considered proper
in Germany for ladies to eat cheese, and no young lady would dream of taking one of the little
glasses of Madeira offered on a tray. They were exclusively for die Herren, and always gave
a fillip to the conversation, which was also more or less a masculine monopoly. Just before
the end of the dinner it was the business of the Mamsell belonging to the house to light a
little army of Vienna coffee machines standing ready on the sideboard, so that coffee could
be served when everyone went back to the drawing-room. The men smoked their cigars there too,
and someone would play the piano, and when no music was going on there was harmless, rather
dull, family conversation. The spinster cousins got out their embroidery, the Mamsells disappeared
with the children, die Herren either talked to each other or had a quiet game of Skat. The
women and some of the men had been to church in the morning, but this did not prevent them
from spending the rest of the day as it pleased them.

It will be seen that from the English point of view Sunday is not observed at all in Germany;
yet this does not mean, as is often announced from English pulpits, that the whole nation is
without religion. Un-belief is more widely professed than here, and many people who call themselves
Christians openly reject certain vital doctrines of Evangelical faith,--are Unitarians, in
fact, but will not say so. But the whole question of religious belief in Germany is a difficult
and contentious one, for according to the people you meet you will be told that the nation
lacks faith or possesses it. If you use your own judgment you must conclude that there is immensely
more scepticism there than here, and that there is also a good deal of vague belief, a belief,
that is, in a personal God and a life after death. But you must admit that except in an "evangelical"
set belief sits lightly on both men and women. Certainly it has nothing to do with the way
they spend Sunday, and if they go to church in the morning they are as likely as not to go
to the theatre in the afternoon. They sew, they dance, they fiddle, they act, they travel on
the day of rest, more on that day than on any other, and when they come to England there is
nothing in our national life they find so tedious and unprofitable as our Sundays. They cannot
understand why a people with so strong a tendency to drink should make the public-house the
only counter attraction to the church on the working man's day of leisure; and when they are
in a country place, and see our groups of idle, aimless young louts standing about not knowing
what to do, they ask why in the name of common sense they should not play an outdoor game.
The Idealist expresses the German point of view very well in her Memoirs, and in so far as
she misunderstands our English point of view she is only on a line with those amongst us who
denounce the continental Sunday as an orgy of noisy and godless pleasures. She says: "I had
a thousand opportunities of noticing that the religious life did not mean a deep life-sanctifying
belief, but simply one of those formulas that are a part of 'respectability,' as they understand
it both in the family and in society." Nothing proves this better than their truly shocking
way of keeping holy the Sabbath day, which is the very reverse of holy, inasmuch as it paves
the way to the heaviest boredom and slackness of spirit. I have been in English houses on Sundays
where the gentlemen threw themselves from one easy chair to the other, and proclaimed their
empty state of mind by their awful yawns; where the children wandered about hopelessly depressed,
because they might neither play nor read an amusing book, not even Grimm's Fairy Tales; where
all the mental enjoyment of the household consisted of so-called 'sacred music,' which some
young miss strummed on the piano or, worse still, sang. A young girl once spoke to me in severe
terms about the Germans who visit theatres and concerts on Sundays. I asked her whether, if
she put it to her conscience, she could honestly say that she had holier feelings and higher
thoughts, whether, in fact, she felt herself a better human being on her quiet Sunday, than
when she heard a Beethoven Symphony, saw a Shakespeare play, or any other noble work of art.
She confessed with embarrassment that she could not say so, but nevertheless arrived at the
logical conclusion that, for all that, it was very wicked of the Germans not to keep Sunday
more holy. Another lady, a cultured liberal-minded person, invited me once to go with her to
the Temple Church, one of the oldest and most beautiful London churches in the city, belonging
to the great labyrinth of Temple Bar where English justice has its seat. The music of the Temple
Church is famous, and I had expressed a wish to hear it. So I went with my house-mate and the
lady in question, and sat between them. During the sermon I had great trouble not to fall asleep,
but fought against it for the sake of decorum. To my surprise, when I glanced at my right-hand
neighbour I saw that she was fast asleep, and when I glanced at the one on my left I saw that
she was asleep too. I looked about at other people, and saw more than one sunk in a pious Nirvana.
As we left the church I asked the Englishwoman, who had a strong sense of humour, whether she
had slept well. 'Yes,' she said, laughing, 'it did me a lot of good.' 'But why do you go?'
I said. 'Oh, my dear,' said she, 'what can one do? It has to be on Sundays.'

"But this narrow Sunday observance is worse for the lower than for the upper classes. At that
time the great dispute was just beginning as to whether the people should be admitted to the
Crystal Palace, to museums, and suchlike institutions. The question was discussed in Parliament,
and decided in the negative. It was feared that the churches would remain empty, and that morals
would suffer if the people began to like heathen gods, works of art and natural curiosities,
better than going to church. At least, this is the only explanation one can give of such a
decision. The churches and the public-houses remained the only public places open on Sundays.
The churches were all very well for a few hours in the morning, but what about the afternoon
and evening? Then the beer-house was the only refuge for the artisan or proletarian bowed down
by the weight of hard work, unused and untaught to wile away the idle hours of Sunday in any
intellectual occupation, and having no friendly attractive home to make the peace of his own
hearth the best refreshment after the exhausting week. And so it turned out: the public-houses
were full to overflowing, and the holiness of Sunday was only too often desecrated by the unholy
sight of drunken men and, more horrible still, drunken women; but this was not all, for so
strong was the temptation thrust upon them, that the workman's hardly earned week's wages went
in drink, and the children were left without bread and not a penny was saved to lighten future
distress. The coarse animal natures of the only half-human beings became coarser and more animal
through the degrading passion for drink that only too often has murder in its train, and murder
in its most terrible and brutal guise!"

There is not one idea or argument in this passage that I have not heard over and over again
from the lips of every German who has anything to say about our English Sunday, and every German
who has been in England or heard much of English life invariably attacks what he considers
this weak joint in our armour.

"What is the use?" he asks, "of going to church in the morning if you get drunk and beat your
wife at night?"

"But the same man does not usually do both things in one day," you represent to him. "One set
of people goes to church and keeps Sunday strictly, and another set goes to public-houses and
is drunk and disorderly. You should try to get out of your head your idea that we are all exactly
alike."

"But you are--exactly alike. Everyone of you goes to church with a solemn face, sings psalms,
and comes back to his roast beef and apple-pie. All the afternoon you are asleep; and at night
the streets and parks are not fit for respectable people."

"At night," you explain, "all the respectable people are at home eating cold beef and cold
pie. The others...."

"The others you drive to drink and fight and kill by your pharisaical methods. You shut the
doors of your theatres and your art galleries, and you set wide the doors of your drinking
hells. How you can call yourself a religious people--it is Satanic...."

"But, my dear man," you say, taking a long breath, "the people who go to public-houses don't
want theatres and art galleries. They are on too low a level."

"It is the business of the State to raise them--not to push them down. Besides, there is drinking--much
drinking--in England on the higher levels too, as you well know...."

"Of course I know," you say impatiently. "All I am saying is that we do not bring it about
by shutting the British Museum on Sundays."

But next time the subject comes up for discussion your German will say again, as he has said
ever since he could speak, that the English Sunday is anathema, and a standing witness to British
Heuchelei, because people sing psalms in the morning and get drunk and beat their wives at
night. You can easily imagine the Hypocrite's Progress painted by a German Hogarth, and it
would begin with a gentleman in a black coat and tall hat on his way to church, and would end
with the same gentleman in the last stage of delirium tremens surrounded by his slaughtered
family. For in Germany one of the curious deep rooted notions about us, who as people go are
surely indifferent honest, is that we are ein falsches Volk. With the want of logic that makes
human nature everywhere so entertaining, a German will nearly always cash a cheque offered
by an English stranger when he would refuse to do so for a countryman. As far as one can get
at it, what Germans really mean by our Heuchelei when they speak without malice is our regard
for the unwritten social law. This is so strong in us from old habit and tradition that most
of us do not feel the shackles; but the stranger within our gates feels it at every step.

CHAPTER XX

SPORT AND GAMES

The word Sport has been taken into the German language lately, but Germans use it when we should
use "hobby." "It is my sport," says an artist when he shows you furniture of his own design.
He means that his business in life is to paint pictures, but his pleasure is to invent beautiful
chairs and tables. When the talk turns on the absurd extreme to which the Marthas of Germany
carry their housekeeping zeal, a German friend will turn to you in defence of his countrywomen.
"It is their 'sport,'" says he, and you understand his point of view. Yet another will tell
you that the English have only become sportsmen in modern times, and that the Germans are rapidly
catching them up; but this is the kind of information you receive politely, disagree with profoundly,
and do not discuss because you have not all the facts at your fingers' ends. But you know that
the British love of sport, be it vice or virtue, is as ingrained in Britons as their common
sense, and as old as their history.

In Germany the country gentleman is a sportsman. He rides, he shoots, he hunts the wild boar
which he preserves in his great forests. "You have no country (Land)," said a German to me,
using the word as opposed to town. "In Germany we have country still." He meant that England
is thickly populated, and that we have no vast tracts of heath and forest where wild animals
live undisturbed. I told him there were a few such places still in Scotland, but that they
all belonged to American and Jewish millionaires; however, he would not believe it. He said
he had spent a fortnight in England and had not heard of them.

It is not such a matter of course with Germans of a certain class to ride as it is with us.
You see a few men, women, and children on horseback in Berlin, but not many; and in most German
towns you see no one riding except cavalry officers. I am told that the present Emperor tried
to institute a fashionable hour for riding in the Tiergarten, but that it fell through partly
because there were not enough people to bring decent carriages and horses. On the great estates
in East Prussia the women as well as the men of the family ride, and go great distances in
this way to see their friends; but in cities you cannot fail to observe the miserable quality
and condition of the horses and the scarcity of private carriages. In fact, the German does
not make as much of animals as the Englishman does. If he lives in the country, or if he means
to be a man of fashion, he will have dogs and horses, but he will not have one or both, by
hook or by crook, whether he is rich or poor, as the Briton does. You see dogs in any German
city that remind you of a paragraph that once appeared in an Italian paper, a paragraph about
a case of dog stealing. The dog was produced in court, said the paper, and was either a fox
terrier or a Newfoundland. But you often see a fine Dachs; in Heidelberg the students are proud
of their great boar-hounds, and in the Black Forest there are numbers of little black Pomeranians.

In German towns where there is water, the traffic on it both for business and amusement is
as busy as with us, and in some respects better managed. Hamburg life, for instance, is largely
on the basin of the Alster; either in the little steamers that carry you from city to suburb,
or in the small craft that crowd its waters on a summer night. It is as usual in Hamburg as
on the Thames to own boats and understand their management, and there are the same varieties
to be seen there: the pleasure boats with people of all ages, the racing outrigger full of
strenuous, lightly clad young men, and the little sail boats scurrying across the water before
the breeze. On the Rhine the big steamers do a roaring traffic all the summer, and catch the
public that likes a good dinner with their scenery; and on the Rhine, as well as on most of
the other rivers of Germany, there are a great many swimming baths; for every German who has
a chance learns to swim. In Hamburg on a summer evening you meet troops of little boys and
girls going to the baths, many of them belonging to the poorer classes; for where there are
no swimming baths attached to the school they get tickets free or at a very low rate. About
fishing I can only speak from hearsay, for I have never caught a minnow myself, but I have
met Germans who are keen anglers, and I have found that they knew every London shop beloved
of anglers, and the English name of every fly.

Germans get more amusement out of their water-ways in winter than we do, for the winters there
are long and hard, so that there is always skating. I have seen the Alster frozen for weeks,
and the whole city of Hamburg playing on the ice. It was not what we call good ice, and not
what we call good skating. For the most part people were content to get over the ground, to
mix with their friends, to have hot drinks at the booths that sprang up in long lines by the
chief track, and even to stroll about without skates and watch the fun. All classes, all ages,
and both sexes skate nowadays, but some fifty or sixty years ago German ladies were not seen
on the ice at all. Skating, like most exercises that are healthy and agreeable, was considered
unfeminine, and men had the fun to themselves. In the mountain districts of Germany winter
sports are growing in favour every year, and people go to the Riesengebirge or to the Black
Forest for tobogganing and ski-ing. The German illustrated papers constantly have articles
about these winter pastimes, and portraits of the distinguished men and women who took part
in them. The history of cycling in Germany is not unlike its history here. The boom subsided
some years ago, but a steady industry survives. In Berlin you see officers in uniform on bicycles,
but you see hardly any ladies. That is because the Emperor and Empress disapprove of cycling
for women, and their disapproval has made it unfashionable. Ten years ago, two years, that
is, after the English boom, no woman on a bicycle had ever been seen in the remoter valleys
of the Black Forest. One who ventured there used to be followed by swarms of wondering children,
who wished her All Heil at the top of their voices. They did not heave bricks at her.

Tennis has not been blighted by the imperial frown, and is extremely popular in Germany. Hockey,
as far as I know, is not played yet; certainly not by women. Cricket and football are played,
but not very much. An Englishman teaching at a gymnasium, told me that the authorities discouraged
outdoor games, as they were considered waste of time. Gymnastics is the form of athletics really
enjoyed and practised by Germans. Every boy, even every girl, begins them at school, and the
boy when he leaves school joins a Turnverein. For wherever Germans foregather, and whatever
they do, you may be sure they have a Verein, and that the Verein has feasts in winter and Ausflüge
in summer. When a man is young and lusty, the delights of the Verein, the Ausflug, the feast,
and the walking tour are often combined. You meet a whole gang of pleasure pilgrims ascending
the broad path that leads to the restaurant on the top of a German mountain, or you encounter
them in the restaurant itself making speeches to the honour and glory of their Verein; and
you find that they are the gymnasts or the fire brigade, or the architects or what not of an
adjacent town, and that once a year they make an excursion together, beginning with a walk
or a journey by rail or by steamer, and culminating in a restaurant where they dine and drink
and speechify. Every age, every trade, and every pastime has its Verein and its anniversary
rites. I was much amused and puzzled in Berlin one afternoon by a procession that filed slowly
past the tram in which I sat, and was preceded and attended by such a rabble of sightseers
that the ordinary traffic was stopped for a time. I thought at first it was a demonstration
in connection with temperance or teetotalism, because there were so many broad blue ribbons
about, and I was surprised, because I know that Germans club together to drink beer and not
to abstain from it, and that they are a sober nation. At the head of the procession came a
string of boys on bicycles, each boy carrying a banner. Then came four open carriages garlanded
with flowers. There was a garland round each wheel, as well as round the horses' necks and
the coachmen's hats, and anywhere else where a garland would rest. In each carriage sat four
damsels robed in white, and they wore garlands instead of hats. After them walked a large,
stout, red-faced man in evening dress, and he carried a staff. After him walked the music,
men puffing and blowing into brass instruments, and, like their leader, wearing evening dress
and silk hats. They were followed by a procession that seemed as if it would stretch to the
moon, a procession of elderly, portly men all wearing evening dress, all wearing broad blue
ribbons and embroidered scarves, and all marching with banners bearing various devices. The
favourite device was Heil Gambrinus, and when I saw that I knew that the blue ribbons had nothing
to do with total abstention. The next banner explained things. It was the Verein of the Schenkwirte
of Berlin,--the publicans, in fact, of Berlin having their little holiday.

All through the summer the German nation amuses itself out of doors, and leads an outdoor life
to an extent unknown and impossible in our damp climate. A house that has a garden nearly always
has a garden room where all meals are served. Sometimes it is a detached summer house, but
more often it opens from the house and is really a big verandah with a roof and sides of glass.
In country places the inn gardens are used as dining-rooms from morning till night, and you
may if you choose have everything you eat and drink brought to you out of doors. Most inns
have a skittle alley, for skittles are still played in Germany by all classes. The peasants
play it on Sunday afternoons, and the dignified merchant has his skittle club and spends an
evening there once a week. The favourite card game of Germany is still Skat, but bridge has
been heard of and will probably supersede it in time. Skat is a good game for three players,
with a system of scoring that seems intricate till you have played two or three times and got
used to it. In Germany it is always die Herren who play these serious games, while the women
sit together with their bits of embroidery. At the Ladies' Clubs in Berlin there is some card
playing, but these two or three highly modern and emancipated establishments do not call the
tune for all Germany. Directly you get away from Berlin you find that men and women herd separately,
far more than in England, take their pleasures separately, and have fewer interests in common.
It is still the custom for the man of the family to go to a beer-house every day, much as an
Englishman goes to his club. Here he meets his friends, sees the papers, talks, smokes, and
drinks his Schoppen. Each social grade will have its own haunts in this way, or its own reserved
table in a big public room. At the Hof Bräuhaus in Munich one room is set apart for the Ministers
of State, and I was told some years ago that the appointments of it were just as plain and
rough as those in the immense public hall where anyone who looked respectable could have the
best beer in the world and a supper of sorts.

It is dull uphill work to write about sport and outdoor games in Germany, because you may have
been in many places and met a fair variety of people without seeing any enthusiasm for either
one or the other. The bulk of the nation is, as a matter of fact, not interested in sport or
in any outdoor games except indifferent tennis, swimming, skating, and in some places boating.
When a German wants to amuse himself, he sits in a garden and listens to a good band; if he
is young and energetic, he walks on a well-made road to a restaurant on the top of a hill.
In winter he plays skat, goes to the theatre or to a concert, or has his music at home. Also
he reads a great deal, and he reads in several tongues. This, at any rate, is the way of Germans
in cities and summer places, and it is a very small proportion of the educated classes who
lead what we call a country life. "Elizabeth" knows German country life, and describes it in
her charming books; perhaps she will some day choose to tell us how the men in her part of
the world amuse themselves, and whether they are good sportsmen. I must confess that I have
only once seen a German in full sporting costume. It was most impressive, though, a sort of
pinkish grey bound everywhere with green, and set off by a soft felt hat and feathers. As we
were having a walk with him, and it was early summer, we ventured to ask him what he had come
to kill. "Bees," said he, and killed one the next moment with a pop-gun.

CHAPTER XXI

INNS AND RESTAURANTS

English people who have travelled in Germany know some of the big well-kept hotels in the large
towns, and know that they are much like big hotels in other continental cities. It is not in
these establishments that you can watch national life or discover much about the Germans, except
that they are good hotel-keepers; and this you probably discovered long ago abroad or at home.
If you are a woman, you may be impressed by the fineness, the whiteness, the profusion, and
the embroidered monograms of the linen, whether you are in a huge caravanserai or a wayside
inn. Otherwise a hotel at Cologne or Heidelberg has little to distinguish it from a hotel at
Brussels or Bâle. The dull correct suites of furniture, the two narrow bedsteads, even the
table with two tablecloths on it, a thick and a thin, the parqueted floor, and the small carpet
are here, there, and everywhere directly you cross the Channel.

The modern German tells you with pride that this apparent want of national quality and colour
is to be felt in every corner of life, and that what you take to be German is not peculiarly
German at all, but common to the whole continent of Europe. This may be true in certain cases
and in a certain sense, but there is another sense in which it is never true. For instance,
the women of continental nations wear high-necked gowns in the evening. It is only English
women who wear evening gowns as a matter of course every day of their lives. I have been told
in Germany that, so far from being a sign of civilisation, this fashion is merely a stupid
survival from the times when all the women of Europe went barenecked all day. However this
may be, there is no doubt that whether the gown be high or low, worn by sunlight or lamplight,
you can see at a glance whether the woman who wears it is English, French, or German. Every
nation has its own features, its own manners, and its own tone, instantly recognised by foreigners,
and apparently hidden from itself. The German assures you that the English manner is quite
unmistakable, and he will even describe and imitate for your amusement some of his silly countryfolk
who were talking to him quite naturally, but suddenly froze and stiffened at the approach of
English friends whose national manner they wished to assume. In England we are not conscious
of having a stiff frozen manner, and we never dream that everyone has the same manner. It takes
a foreigner to perceive this; and so in Germany it takes a foreigner to appreciate and even
to see the characteristic trifles that give a nation a complexion of its own.

Some of the most comfortable hotels in Germany are the smaller ones supported entirely by Germans.
A stray Englishman, finding one of these starred in Baedeker and put in the second class, may
try it from motives of economy, but in many of them he would only meet merchants on their travels
and the unmarried men of the neighbourhood who dine there. In such establishments as these
the table d'hôte still more or less prevails, while if you go to fashionable hotels you dine
at small tables nowadays and see nothing of your neighbours. The part played during dinner
by the hotel proprietor varies considerably. In a big establishment he is represented by the
Oberkellner, and does not appear at all. The Oberkellner is a person of weight and standing;
so much so that when you are in a crowded beer garden and can get no one to attend to you,
you call out Ober to the first boy waiter who passes, and he is so touched by the compliment
that he serves you before your turn. But in a real old-fashioned German inn you have personal
relations with the proprietor, for he takes the head of his table and attends to the comfort
of his customers as carefully as if they were his guests. This used to be a universal custom,
but you only find it observed now in the Sleepy Hollows of Germany. I have stayed in a most
comfortable and well-managed hotel where the proprietor and his brother waited on their guests
all through dinner, but never sat down with them. There were hired men, but they played a subordinate
part. In small country inns the host still arrives in the garden when your meal is served,
asks if you have all you want, wishes you guten Appetit, and after a little further conversation
waddles away to perform the same office at some other table. Except in the depths of the country
where the inn-keepers are peasants, a German hotel-keeper invariably speaks several languages,
and has usually been in Paris and London or New York. His business is to deal with the guests
and the waiters, and to look after the cellar and the cigars; while his wife or his sister,
though she keeps more in the background than a French proprietress, does just as much work
as a Frenchwoman, and, as far as one can judge, more than any man in the establishment. She
superintends the chambermaids and has entire care of the vast stock of linen; in many cases
she has most of it washed on the premises, and she helps to iron and repair it. She buys the
provisions, and sees that there is neither waste nor disorder in the kitchen; she often does
a great part of the actual cooking herself. When I was a girl I happened to spend a winter
in a South German hotel of old standing, kept for several generations in the same family, and
now managed by two brothers and a sister. The sister, a well-educated young woman of twenty-five,
used to get up at five winter and summer to buy what was wanted for the market, and one day
she took me with her. It was a pretty lesson in the art of housekeeping as it is understood
and practised in Germany. All the peasant women in the duchy could not have persuaded my young
woman to have given the fraction of a farthing more for her vegetables than they were worth
that day, or to take any geese except the youngest and plumpest. She went briskly from one
part of the market to the other, seeming to see at a glance where it was profitable to deal
this morning. She did not haggle or squabble as inferior housewives will, because she knew
just what she wanted and what it was prudent to pay for it. When she got home she sat down
to a second breakfast that seemed to me like a dinner, a stew of venison and half a bottle
of light wine; but, as she said, hotel keeping is exhausting work, and hotel-keepers must needs
live well.

At some hotels in this part of Germany wine is included in the charge for dinner, and given
to each guest in a glass carafe or uncorked bottle. It is kept on tap even in the small wayside
inns, where you get half a litre for two or three pence when you are out for a walk and are
thirsty. If you dislike thin sour wine you had better avoid the grape-growing lands and travel
in Bavaria, where every country inn-keeper brews his own beer. Many of these small inns entertain
summer visitors, not English and Americans who want luxuries, but their own countryfolk, whose
purses and requirements are both small. As far as I know by personal experience and by hearsay,
the rooms in these inns are always clean. The bedding all over Germany is most scrupulously
kept and aired. In country places you see the mattresses and feather beds hanging out of the
windows near the pots of carnations every sunny day. The floors are painted, and are washed
all over every morning. The curtains are spotless. In each room there is the inevitable sofa
with the table in front of it, a most sensible and comfortable addition to a bedroom, enabling
you to seek peace and privacy when you will. If you wander far enough from the beaten track,
you may still find that all the water you are supposed to want is contained in a good-sized
glass bottle; but if you are English your curious habits will be known, and more water will
be brought to you in a can or pail. My husband and I once spent a summer in a Thuringian inn
that had never taken staying guests before, and even here we found that the proprietress had
heard of English ways, and was willing, with a smile of benevolent amusement, to fill a travelling
bath every day. This inn had a summer house where all our meals were served as a matter of
course, and where people from a fashionable watering-place in the next valley came for coffee
or beer sometimes. The household itself consisted of the proprietress, her daughter, and her
maidservant, and during the four months we spent there I never knew them to sit down to a regular
meal. They ate anything at any time, as they fancied it. The summer house in which we had our
meals was large and pleasant, with a wide view of the hills and a near one of an old stone
bridge and a trout stream. The trees near the inn were limes, and their scent while they were
in flower overpowered the scent of pines coming at other times with strength and fragrance
from the surrounding forest. The only drawback to our comfort was a hornets' nest in an old
apple-tree close to the summer-house. The hornets used to buzz round us at every meal, and
at first we supposed they might sting us. This they never did, though we waged war on them
fiercely. But no one wants to be chasing and killing hornets all through breakfast and dinner,
so we asked the maid of the inn what could be done to get rid of them. She smiled and said
Jawohl, which was what she always said; and we went out for a walk. When we came back and sat
down to supper there were no hornets. Jawohl had just stood on a chair, she said, poured a
can of water into the nest, and stuffed up the opening with grass. She had not been stung,
and we were not pestered by a hornet again that summer. I have sometimes told this story to
English people, and seen that though they were too polite to say so they did not believe it.
But that is their fault. The story as I have told it is true. We found immense numbers of hornets
in one wild uninhabited valley where we sometimes walked that summer, but we were never stung.

The proprietress of this inn, like most German women, was a fair cook. Besides the inn she
owned a small brewery, and employed a brewer who lived quite near, and showed us the whole
process by which he transferred the water of the trout stream into foaming beer. His mistress
had no rival in the village, and the village was a small one, so sometimes the beer was a little
flat. When Jawohl brought a jug from a cask just broached, she put it on the table with a proud
air, and informed us that it was frisch angesteckt. We once spent a summer in a Bavarian village
where a dozen inns brewed their own beer, and it was always known which one had just tapped
a cask. Then everyone crowded there as a matter of course. In all these country inns there
is one room with rough wooden tables and benches, and here the peasants sit smoking their long
pipes and emptying their big mugs or glasses, and as a rule hardly speaking. They do not get
drunk, but no doubt they spend more than they can afford out of their scanty earnings.

In the Bavarian village the inns were filled all through the summer with people from Nuremberg,
Erlangen, Augsburg, Erfurth, and other Bavarian towns. The inn-keeper used to charge five shillings
a week for a scrupulously clean, comfortably furnished room, breakfast was sixpence, dinner
one and two-pence, and supper as you ordered it. For dinner they gave you good soup, Rindfleisch,
either poultry or roast meat, and one of the Mehlspeisen for which Bavaria is celebrated, some
dish, that is, made with eggs and flour. There was a great variety of them, but I only remember
one clearly, because I was impressed by its disreputable name. It was some sort of small pancake
soaked in a wine sauce, and it was called versoffene Jungfern. Most of these inns kept no servants,
and except in the Kurhaus there was not a black-coated waiter in the place. Our inn-keeper
tilled his own fields, grew his own hops, and brewed his own beer; and his wife, wearing her
peasant's costume, did all the cooking and cleaning, assisted by a daughter or a cousin. When
you met her out of doors she would be carrying one of the immense loads peasant women do carry
up hill and down dale in Germany. She was hale and hearty in her middle age, and always cheerful
and obliging. At that inn, too, we never had a meal indoors from May till October. Everything
was brought out to a summer-house, from which we looked straight down the village, its irregular
Noah's Ark-like houses, and its background of mountains and forest.

When you first get back to England from Germany, you have to pull yourself together and remember
that in your own country, even on a hot still summer evening, you cannot sit in a garden where
a band is playing and have your dinner in the open air, unless you happen to be within reach
of Earl's Court. In German towns there are always numbers of restaurants in which, according
to the weather, meals can be served indoors or out. You see what use people make of them if,
for instance, you happen to be in Hamburg on a hot summer night. All round the basin of the
Alster there are houses, hotels, and gardens, and every public garden is so crowded that you
wonder the waiters can pass to and fro. Bands are playing, lights are flashing, the little
sailing boats are flitting about. The whole city after its day's work has turned out for air
and music and to talk with friends. And as you watch the scene you know that in every city,
even in every village of the empire, there is some such gala going on: in gardens going down
to the Rhine from the old Rhenish towns; in the gardens of ancient castles set high above the
stifling air of valleys; in the forest that comes to the very edge of so many little German
towns; even in the streets of towns where a table set on the pavement will be pleasanter than
in a room on such a night as this. You can sit at one of these restaurants and order nothing
but a cup of coffee or a glass of beer; or you can dine, for the most part, well and cheaply.
If you order a halbe Portion of any dish, as Germans do, you will be served with more than
you can eat of it. The variety offered by some of the restaurants in the big cities, the excellence
of the cooking, the civilisation of the appointments, and the service, all show that the German
must be the most industrious creature in the world, and the thriftiest and one of the cleverest.
In London we have luxurious restaurants for people who can spend a great deal of money, but
in Berlin they have them for people who cannot spend much. That is the difference between the
two cities. How Berlin does it is a mystery. In the restaurants I have seen there is neither
noise nor bustle nor garish colours nor rough service nor any other of the miseries we find
in our own cheap eating-houses. In one of them the walls were done in some kind of plain fumed
wood with a frieze and ceiling of soft dull gold. In another each room had a different scheme
of colour.

"So according to your Stimmung you will choose your room," said the friends who took me. "To-night
we are rather cheerful. We will go to the big room on the first floor. That is all pale green
and ivory."

"You have nothing like this in England," said the artist as we went up the lift. "It is terrible
in England. When I asked for my lunch at three or four o'clock I was told that lunch was over.
Das hat keinen Zweck,--I want my lunch when I am hungry."

"But you are terribly behindhand in some ways in Berlin," I said, for I knew the artist liked
an argument. "In London you can shop all through the night by telephone. It is most convenient."

"Have you ever done it?"

"I'm not on the telephone, and I am generally asleep at night. But other people...."

"Verrückt," said the artist. "Who in his senses wants to do shopping at night? Now look at
this room, and admit that you have nothing at all like it."

The first swift impression of the place was that Liberty had brought his stuffs, his furniture,
and his glass from London and set up as a restaurateur in Berlin. The whole thing was certainly
well done. It was not as florid and fussy as our expensive restaurants. The colours were quiet,
and the necessary draperies plain. The glass was thin and elegant; so were the coffee cups;
and the table linen was white and fine. Nothing about it, however, would be worth describing
if it had been expensive. But the menu, which covered four closely printed pages, showed that
the most expensive dish offered there cost one and threepence, while the greater number cost
ninepence, sixpence, or threepence each. The hungry man would begin with crayfish, which were
offered to him prepared in ten various ways; for the Germans, like the French, are extremely
fond of crayfish. He would have them in soup, for instance, or with asparagus, with salad or
dressed with dill. Then he would find the week's bill of fare on his card, three or four dishes
for each day, some cooked in small casseroles and served so to any guest who orders one. If
it was a Friday he could have a ragoût of chicken in the Bremen style, or a slice from a Hamburg
leg of mutton with cream sauce and celery salad, or ox-tongue cooked with young turnips. If
he was a Catholic he would find two kinds of fish ready for him,--trout, cooked blue, and a
ragoût of crayfish with asparagus and baked perch. But these are just the special dishes of
the day, and he is not bound to try them. There are seven kinds of soup, including real turtle,
and it is not for me to say how real turtle can be supplied in Berlin for 30 pfennig. There
are seven kinds of fish and too many varieties of meat, poultry, salads, vegetables and sweets,
both hot and cold, to count. A man can have any kind of cooking he fancies, too; his steak
may be German, Austrian, or French; he can have English roast beef, Russian caviare, a Maltese
rice pudding, apples from the Tyrol, wild strawberries from a German forest, all the cheeses
of France and England, a Welsh rarebit, and English celery. The English celery is as mysterious
as the real turtle, for it was offered in June. Pheasants and partridges, I can honestly say,
however, were not offered. Under the head of game there were only venison, geese, chickens,
and pigeons.

I am sorry now that when I dined at this restaurant I did not order real turtle soup, Roast
beef Engl. mit Schmorkartoffeln, celery, and a Welsh rarebit, because then I should have discovered
whether these old British friends were recognisable in their Berlin environment. But it was
more amusing at the time to ask for ham cooked in champagne and served with radish sauce, and
other curious inviting combinations.

"But at home," I said to the artist,--"at home we just eat to live. We have a great contempt
for people who pay much attention to food."

"I stayed in an English house last year, and never did I hear so much about food," said he.
"One would eat nothing but grape-nuts and cheese, and another swore by toast and hot water
and little Pastetchen of beef, and the third would have large rice puddings, and the fourth
asked for fruit at every meal, and the fifth said all the others were wrong and that he wanted
a good dinner. The poor hostess would have been distracted if she had not been one of those
who love a new fad and try each one in turn. Also there were two eminent physicians in the
house, and one of these drank champagne every night, while the other would touch nothing but
Perrier and said champagne was poison. Directly we sat down we discussed these things, ...
and everyone assured me that if I tried his regime I should improve in health most marvellously."

"Which did you try?" I asked.

"The good dinner and the champagne, of course. But I did not find they affected my health one
way or the other."

CHAPTER XXII

LIFE IN LODGINGS

As rents are high in Germany, it is usual for people of small means to let off one or two rooms,
either furnished or unfurnished. But it is not usual to supply a lodger with any meal except
his coffee and rolls in the morning. If you wish to take lodgings in a German town, and work
through the long list of them in a local paper, you will probably find no one willing to provide
for you in the English fashion.

"Cooking!" they say with horror,--"cooking! You want to eat in your room. No. That can we not
undertake. Coffee in the morning, yes; and rolls with it and butter and even two eggs, but
nothing further. Just round the corner in the Königstrasse are two very fine restaurants, where
the Herrschaften can eat what they will at any hour of the day, and for moderate prices."

If you insist, the most they will promise, and that not willingly, is to provide you with a
knife and fork and a tablecloth for a pyramid of courses sent hot from one of the very fine
adjacent restaurants for 1 mark or 1 mark 20 pf. Supper in Germany is the easiest meal in the
day to provide, as you buy the substantial part of it at a Delikatessenhandlung, and find that
even a German landlady will condescend to get you rolls and butter and beer. This sounds like
the Simple Life, to be sure; but if you are in German lodgings for any length of time you probably
desire for one reason or the other to lead it. The plan of having your dinner sent piping hot
from a restaurant in nice clean white dishes rather like monster soufflé dishes is not a bad
one if the restaurant keeps faith with you. It is rather amusing to begin at the top with soup
and work through the various surprises and temptations of the pyramid till you get to Biskuit-Pudding
mit Vanille Sauce at the bottom. But in nine cases out of ten the restaurant fails you, sends
uneatable food, is absurdly unpunctual or says plainly it can't be bothered. Then you have
to wander about and out of doors for your food in all weathers and all states of health. This
is amusing for a time, but not in the long run. It is astonishing how tired you can get of
the "very fine" restaurants within reach, of their waitresses, their furniture, their menus,
and their daily guests. At least, this is so in a small town where the best restaurant is not
"very fine," although both food and service will be better than in an English town of the same
size. If you are in Berlin and can go to the good restaurants, there you will be in danger
of becoming a gourmet and losing your natural affection for cold mutton.

In a university or a big commercial town it is easy to get rooms for less than we pay in England;
but in a small Residenz I have found it difficult. There were rooms to let, but no one wanted
us, because we were not officers with soldier servants to wait on us; nor did we want to engage
rooms as the officers did for at least six months. In fact, we found ourselves as unpopular
as ladies are in a London suburb where all the lodging-house keepers want "gentlemen in the
city" who are away all day and give no trouble. At last, after searching through every likely
street in the town, we found a dentist with exuberant manners, who said he would overlook our
shortcomings, and allow us to inhabit his rooms at a high price on condition we gave no trouble.
We said we never gave trouble anywhere, and left both hotels and lodging-houses with an excellent
character, so the bargain was concluded. I saw that his wife was not a party to it, but he
overruled her, and as he was a big red-faced noisy man, and she was a small rat of a woman,
I thought he would continue to do so. One is always making these stupid elementary mistakes
about one's fellow-creatures. But a little later in the day I had occasion to call at the rooms
to complete some arrangement about luggage, and then the wife received me alone. I asked her
if she could put a small table into a room that only had a big one. I forget why I wanted it.

"Table!" she said rudely. "What can you want another table for? Isn't that one enough?"

"I should like another," I said,--"any little one would do."

"I don't keep tables up my sleeve," said she. "You see what you can have, ... just what is
there. If it doesn't suit you...."

"But it does suit me," I said hurriedly, for the search had been long and exhausting, and the
rooms were pleasant enough. I thought we need not deal much with the woman.

"No meals except coffee in the morning; you understand that?" she said in a truculent tone.

"Oh yes, I understand. We shall go out at midday and at night. Afternoon tea I always make
myself with a spirit lamp...."

Never in my life have I been so startled. I thought the woman was going to behave like a rat
in a corner, and fly at me. She shook her fist and shouted so loud that she brought the dentist
on the scene.

"Spiritus," she screamed. "Spiritus--Spiritus leid' ich nicht."

"Bless us!" I said in English. "What's the matter?"

"Was ist's?" said the dentist, and he looked downright frightened.

"Sie will kochen," said his wife, shaking her fist at me again. "She has a spirit lamp. She
wants to turn my beautiful bestes Zimmer into a kitchen. She will take all the polish off my
furniture, just as the last people did when they cooked for themselves."

"Cooked!" I said. "Who speaks of cooking?--I spoke of a cup of tea."

"Spiritus leid' ich nicht," shrieked the woman.

"No," said the dentist, "we can't have cooking here."

"Spiritus leid'...."

But I fled. Luckily, we had not paid any rent in advance. I made up my mind that I would never
confess to my small harmless Etna in German lodgings again, and would bolt the door while I
boiled water for tea in it. We found rooms after another weary search, but they were extremely
noisy and uncomfortable. We had to take them for six weeks, and could only endure them for
a fortnight, and though we paid them the full six weeks' rent when we left, they charged us
for every jug of hot water we had used, and added a Trinkgeld for the servant.

"We did not engage to pay extra either for hot water or for Trinkgeld," we said, turning, as
worms will even in a Residenz, where everyone is a worm who is not Militär.

"But Engländer never give a Trinkgeld. That is why we have put it in the bill. The girl expects
it, and has earned it."

"The girl will have it," we said; "but we shall give it her ourselves. And what have you to
say about the hot water?"

"Without coal it is impossible to have hot water. We let you our rooms, but we did not let
you our coal. It is quite simple. Have you any other complaint to make?"

We had, but we did not make them. We went to one of the big cities, where the civilian is still
a worm, but where he has a large number and variety of other worms to keep him company. In
Berlin or Hamburg or Leipzig there are always furnished rooms delighted to receive you. There
may be a difficulty, however, if you are a musician. The police come in with their regulations;
or your fellow-lodgers may be students of medicine or philosophy, and driven wild by your harmonies.
I knew a young musician who always took rooms in the noisiest street in Berlin, and practised
with his windows open. He said the din of electric trams, overhead trains, motor cars, and
heavy lorries helped his landlady and her family to suffer a Beethoven sonata quite gladly.

One of the insoluble mysteries of German life is the cheapness of furnished lodgings as compared
with the high rent and rates. To be sure, the landlady does not cook for you, and the bed-sitting-room
is not considered sordid in Germany. In fact, the separate sitting-room is almost unknown,
though it is easy to arrange one by shifting some furniture. The pattern of the room and its
appointments hardly vary in any part of Germany, though of course the size and quality vary
with the price. If you take a small room you have one straight window, and if you take a large
one you have several. Or you may have a broad balcony window opening on to a balcony. You have
the parqueted or painted floor, the porcelain stove, the sofa, the table, the wooden bedstead,
and the wooden hanging cupboard wherever you are. It is always sensible, comfortable furniture,
and usually plain. When people over there know no better they buy themselves tawdry horrors,
just as they do here. The German manufacturers flood the world with such things. But people
who let lodgings put their treasures in a sacred room they call das beste Zimmer, and only
use on festive occasions. They fob you off with old-fashioned stuff they do not value, a roomy
solid cupboard, a family sofa, a chest of drawers black with age, and a hanging mirror framed
in old elm-wood; and if it were not for a bright green rep tablecloth, snuff-coloured curtains,
and a wall paper with a brown background and yellow snakes on it, you would like your quarters
very well indeed. Rooms are usually let by the month, except in watering-places, where weekly
prices prevail. In Leipzig you can get a room for 10s. a month. It will be a parterre or a
fourth-floor room, rather gloomy and rather shabby, but a possible room for a student who happens
to be hard up. For £1 a month you can get a room on a higher floor, and better furnished, while
for £1, 10s. a month in Hamburg I myself have had two well-furnished rooms commanding a fine
view of the Alster, and one of them so large that in winter it was nearly impossible to keep
warm. Then my Hamburg friends told me I was paying too much, and that they could have got better
lodgings for less money. They were nearer the sky than I should like in these days, but the
old German system of letting the higher flats in a good house for a low rent benefits people
who care about a "select" neighbourhood and yet cannot pay very much. The modern system of
lifts will gradually make it impossible to get a flat or lodgings in a good street without
paying as much for the fifth floors as for the first.

You do not see much of a German landlady, as she does not cater for you. She is often a widow,
and when you know the rent of a flat you wonder how she squeezes a living out of what her lodgers
pay her. She cannot even nourish herself with their scraps, or warm herself at a kitchen fire
for which they pay. Some of them perform prodigies of thrift, especially when they have children
to feed and educate. At the end of a long severe winter, when the Alster had been frozen for
months, I found out by chance that my landlady, a sad aged widow with one little boy, had never
lighted herself a fire. She let every room of her large flat, except a kitchen and a Kammer
opening out of it. The little food she needed she cooked on an oil stove, at night she had
a lamp, and of course she never by any chance opened a window. She said she could not afford
coals, and that her son and she managed to keep warm. The miracle is that they both kept alive
and well. Another German landlady was of a different type, a big buxom bustling creature, who
spent most of the day in her husband's coal sheds, helping him with his books and taking orders.
Although she was so busy she undertook to cook for me, and kept her promise honourably; and
she cooked for herself, her husband, and their work-people. She used sometimes to show me the
huge dishes of food they were about to consume, food that was cheap to buy and nourishing to
eat, but troublesome to prepare. She did all her own washing too, and dried it in the narrow
slip of a room her husband and she used for all purposes. I discovered this by going in to
see her when she was ill one day, and finding rows of wet clothes hung on strings right across
her bed. I made no comment, for nothing that is an outrage of the first laws of hygiene will
surprise you if you have gone here and there in the byways of Germany. An English girl told
me that when she was recovering from a slight attack of cholera in a Rhenish Pension, they
were quite hurt because she refused stewed cranberries. "Das schadet nichts, das ist gesund,"
they said. I could hear them say it. Only the summer before a kindly hotel-keeper had brought
me a ragoût of Schweinefleisch and vanilla ice under similar circumstances. The German constitution
seems able to survive anything, even roast goose at night at the age of three.

A Pension in Germany costs from £3 a month upwards. That is to say, you will get offers of
a room and full board for this sum, but I must admit that I never tried one at so low a rate,
and should not expect it to be comfortable. Rent and food are too dear in the big towns to
make a reasonable profit possible on such terms, unless the household is managed on starvation
lines. To have a comfortable room and sufficient food, you must pay from £5 to £7 a month,
and then if you choose carefully you will be satisfied. The society is usually cosmopolitan
in these establishments, and the German spoken is a warning rather than a lesson. It is not
really German life that you see in this way, though the proprietress and her assistants may
be German. In most of the university towns some private families take "paying guests," and
when they are agreeable people this is a pleasanter way of life than any Pension.

Before you have been in Germany a fortnight the police expects to know all about you. You have
to give them your father's Christian and surname, and tell them how he earned his living, and
where he was born; also your mother's Christian and maiden name, and where she was born. You
must declare your religion, and if you are married give your husband's Christian and surname;
also where he was born, and what he does for a living. If you happen to do anything yourself,
though, you need not mention it. They do not expect a woman to be anything further than married
or single. But you must say when and where you were last in Germany, and how often you have
been, and why you have come now, and what you are doing, and how long you propose to stay.
They tell you in London you do not need a passport in Germany, and they tell you in Berlin
that you must either produce one or be handed over for inquiry to your Embassy. Last year when
I was there I produced one twenty-three years old. I had not troubled to get a new one, but
I came across this, quite yellow with age, and I thought it might serve to make some official
happy; for I had once seen my husband get himself, me, and our bicycles over the German frontier
and into Switzerland, and next morning back into Germany, by showing the gendarmes on the bridge
his C.T.C. ticket. I cannot say that my ancient passport made my official exactly happy. Twenty-three
years ago he was certainly in a Steckkissen, and no doubt he felt that in those days, in a
world without him to set it right, anything might happen.

"Twenty-three years," he bellowed at the top of his voice, for he saw that I was fremd, and
wished to make himself clear. We are not the only people who scream at foreigners that they
may understand. "Twenty-three years. But it is a lifetime."

It was for him no doubt. I admitted that twenty-three years was--well, twenty-three years,
and explained that I had been told at a Reisebureau that a passport was unnecessary.

"They know nothing in England," he said gloomily. "With us a passport is necessary; but what
is a passport twenty-three years old?"

I admitted that, from the official point of view, it was not much, and he made no further difficulties.
As a rule you need not go to the police bureau at all. The people you are with will get the
necessary papers, and fill them in for you; but I wanted to see whether the German jack-in-office
was as bad as his reputation makes him. Germans themselves often complain bitterly of the treatment
they receive at the hands of these lower class officials.

"I went to the police station," said a German lady who lived in England, and was in her own
country on a visit. "I went to anmelden myself, but not one of the men in the office troubled
to look up. When I had stood there till I was tired I said that I wished someone to attend
to me. Every pen stopped, every head was raised, astounded by my impertinence. But no one took
any notice of my request. I waited a little longer, and then fetched myself a chair that someone
had left unoccupied. I did not do it to make a sensation. I was tired. But every pen again
stopped, and one in authority asked in a voice like thunder what I made here. I said that I
had come to anmelden myself, and he began to ask the usual questions with an air of suspicion
that was highly offensive. You can see for yourself that I do not look like an anarchist or
anything but what I am, a respectable married woman of middle age. I told the man everything
he wanted to know, and at every item he grunted as if he knew it was a lie. In the end he asked
me very rudely how long a stay I meant to make in Germany.

"Not a day longer than I can help," I said; "for your manners do not please me."

All the pens stopped again till I left the office, and when I got back to my mother she wept
bitterly; for she said that I should be prosecuted for Beamtenbeleidigung and put in prison.

"But the really interesting fact about the system is that it doesn't work," said a German to
me; "when I wanted my papers a little while ago I could not get them. Nothing about me could
be discovered. Officially I did not exist."

Yet he had inherited a name famous all over the world, was a distinguished scientific man himself,
and had been born in the city where his existence was not known to the police.

"Take care you don't go in at an Ausgang or out at an Eingang," said an Englishman who had
just come back from Berlin. "Take care you don't try to buy stamps at the Post Office out of
your turn. Remember that you can't choose your cab when you arrive. A policeman gives you a
number, and you have to hunt amongst a crowd of cabs for that number, even if it is pouring
with rain. Remember that the police decides that you must buy your opera tickets on a Sunday
morning, and stand queue for hours till you get them. If you have a cold in your head, stay
at home. Last winter a man was arrested for sneezing loudly. It was considered Beamtenbeleidigung.
The Englishwoman who walked on the grass in the Tiergarten was not arrested, because the official
who saw her died of shock at the sight, and could not perform his duty."

Wherever you go in Germany you hear stories of police interference and petty tyranny, and it
is mere luck if you do not innocently transgress some of their fussy pedantic regulations.
In South Germany I once put a cream jug on my window-sill to keep a little milk cool for the
afternoon. The jug was so small and the window so high that it can hardly have been visible
from the street, but my landlady came to me excitedly and said the police would be on her before
the day was out if the jug was left there. The police allowed nothing on a window-sill in that
town, lest it should fall on a citizen's head. Each town or district has its own restrictions,
its own crimes. In one you will hear that a butcher boy is not allowed on the side-path carrying
his tray of meat. If a policeman catches him at it, he, or his employer, is fined. In another
town the awning from a shop window must not exceed a certain length, and you are told of a
poor widow, who, having just had a new one put up at great expense, was compelled by the police
to take the whole thing down, because the flounce was a quarter of an inch longer than the
regulations prescribed. You hear of a poor man laboriously building a toy brick wall round
the garden in his Hof, and having to pull it to pieces because "building" is not allowed except
with police permission. In some towns the length of a woman's gown is decided in the Polizeibureau,
and the officers fine any woman whose skirt touches the ground. In one town you may take a
dog out without a muzzle; in another it is a crime. A merchant on his way to his office, in
a city where there was a muzzling order, found to his annoyance, one morning, that his mother's
dog had followed him unmuzzled. He had no string with him, he could not persuade the dog to
return, and he could not go back with it, because he had an important appointment. So he risked
it and went on. Before long, however, he met a policeman. The usual questions were asked, his
name and address were taken, and he was told that he would be fined. Hardly had he got to the
end of the street when he met a second policeman. He explained that the matter was settled,
but this was not the opinion of the policeman. Was the dog not at large, unmuzzled, on his
the policeman's beat? With other policemen he had nothing to do. The dog was his discovery,
the name and address of the owner were required, and there was no doubt, in the policeman's
mind, that the owner would have to pay a second fine. The merchant went his ways, still followed
by an unmuzzled unled dog. Before long he met a third policeman, gave his name and address
a third time, and was assured that he would have to pay a third time.

"Dann war es mir zu bunt," said the merchant, and he picked up the dog and carried it the rest
of the way to his office. When he got there he sent it home in a cab.

CHAPTER XXIII

SUMMER RESORTS

If you choose to leave the railroad you may still travel by diligence in Germany, and rumble
along the roads in its stuffy interior. As you pass through a village the driver blows his
horn, old and young run out to enjoy the sensation of the day, the geese cackle and flutter
from you in the dust, you catch glimpses of a cobble-stoned market-place, a square church-tower
with a stork's nest on its summit, Noah's Ark-like houses with thatched or gabled roofs, tumble-down
balconies, and outside staircases of wood. Sometimes when the official coach is crowded you
may have an open carriage given you without extra charge, but you cannot expect that to happen
often; nor will you often be driven by postillion nowadays. Indeed, for all I know the last
one may have vanished and been replaced by a motor bus. You can take one to a mountain inn
in the Black Forest nowadays, over a pass I travelled a few years ago in a mail coach. In those
times it was a jog-trot journey occupying the long lazy hours of a summer morning. I suppose
that now you whizz and hustle through the lovely forest scenery pursued by clouds of dust and
offended by the fumes of petrol, but no doubt you get to your destination quicker than you
used. The pleasantest way to travel in Germany, if you are young and strong, is on your feet.
It is enchanting to walk day after day through the cool scented forest and sleep at night in
one of the clean country inns. You must choose your district and your inn, for if you went
right off the traveller's track and came to a peasant's house you would find nothing approaching
the civilisation of an English farmhouse. But in most of the beautiful country districts of
Germany there are fine inns, and there are invariably good roads leading to them. This way
of travelling is too tame for English people as a rule. They laugh at the broad well-made path
winding up the side of a German mountain, and still more at the hotel or restaurant to be found
at the top. From the English point of view a walk of this kind is too tame and easy either
for health or pleasure. But the beauty of it, especially in early summer, can never be forgotten;
and so it is worth while, even if you are young and cherish a proper scorn for broad roads
and good dinners. You would probably come across some dinners that were not good, tough veal,
for instance, and greasy vegetables. The roads you would have to accept, and walk them if you
choose in tennis shoes. Indeed, you would forget the road and eat the dinner unattending; for
all that's made would be a green thought in a green shade for you by the end of the day, and
as you shut your eyes at night you would see forest, forest with the sunlight on the young
tips of the pines, forest unfolding itself from earth to sky as you climbed hour after hour
close to the ferns and boulders of the foaming mountain stream your pathway followed, forest
too on the opposite side of the valley, with wastes of golden broom here and there, and fields
of rye and barley swept gently by the breeze. You may walk day by day in Germany through such
a paradise as this, and meet no one but a couple of children gathering wild strawberries, or
an old peasant carrying faggots, or the goose-girl herding her fussy flock. You may even spend
your summer holiday in a crowded watering-place, and yet escape quite easily into the heart
of the forest where the crowd never comes. The crowd sits about on benches planted by a Verschönerungsverein
within a mile of their hotel, or on the verandah of the hotel itself. Some of the benches will
command a view, and these will be most in demand. Those that are nearly a mile away will be
reached by energetic elderly ladies, and at dinner you will hear that they have been to the
Rabenstein this morning, and that the Aussicht was prachtvoll and the Luft herrlich, but that
they must decline to go farther afield this afternoon as the morning's exertions have tired
them. But some of die Herren say they are ready for anything, and even propose to scale the
mountain behind the hotel and drink a glass of beer at the top. You readily agree to go with
them, for by this time you know that even if you are a poor walker you can toddle half way
up a German hill and down again; and the hotel itself has been built high above the valley.
But after dinner you find that nearly everyone disappears for a siesta, while the few who keep
outside are asleep over their coffee and cigar. Even Skat hardly keeps awake the three Herren
who proposed a walk; and your friend the Frau Geheimrath Schultze warns you solemnly against
the insanity of stirring a step before sundown; for summer in South Germany is summer indeed.
The sun comes suddenly with power and glory, bursting every sheathed bud and ripening crops
in such a hurry that you walk through new mown hayfields while your English calendar tells
you it is still spring. Later in the year the heat is often intense all through the middle
of the day, and the young men who make their excursions on foot start at dawn, so that they
may arrive at a resting place by ten or eleven. "For many years our boys have wandered cheaply
and simply through their German Fatherland," says a leaflet advertising a society that organises
walking tours for girls; Saturday afternoon walks, Sunday walks, and holiday walks extending
over six or eight days. "Simplicity, cheerful friendly intercourse, gaiety in fresh air, these
are the companions of our pilgrimage.... We wish to provide the German nation with mothers
who are at home in woods and meadows, who have learned to observe the beauties of nature, who
have strengthened their health and their perceptions of everything that is great and beautiful
by happy walks.... Anyone wanderfroh who has been at a higher school or who is still attending
one is eligible. The card of membership only costs 3 marks for a single member and 4 marks
for a whole family. Some of the excursions are planned to include brother pilgrims, and their
character is gay and cheerful, without flirting or coquetry, a genuine friendly intercourse
between girls and boys, young men and maidens, a pure and beautiful companionship such as no
dancing lesson and no ballroom can create, and which is nevertheless the best training for
life." So nowadays gangs of girls, and even mixed gangs of boys and girls, are to swarm through
the pleasant forests of Germany, ascend the easy pathways of her mountains, and fill her country
inns to overflowing. How horrified the little Backfisch would have been at such a suggestion,
how unmaidenly her excellent aunt would have deemed it, how profoundly they would both have
disapproved of any exercise that heightens the colour or disturbs the neatness of a young lady's
toilet. I myself have heard German men become quite violent in their condemnation of Englishwomen
who play games or take walks that make them temporarily dishevelled. It never seemed to occur
to them that a woman might think their displeasure at her appearance of less account than her
own enjoyment. "No," they said, "ask not that we should admire Miss Smith. She has just come
in from a six hours' walk with her brother. Her face is as red as a poppy, her blouse is torn,
and her boots are thick and muddy."

As a matter of fact, I had not asked them to admire Miss Smith. I knew that the lady they admired
was arch, and had a persuasive giggle. Nevertheless I tried to break a lance for my countrywoman.

"You will see," I assured them, "she will remove the torn blouse and the muddy boots; and when
she comes down her face will be quite pale."

"But she often looks like that," said one of the men. "At least once a day she plays a game
or takes a walk that is more of a strain on her appearance than it should be. A young woman
must always consider what effect things have on her appearance."

"Why?"

"Why?--Because she is a woman. There is no sense in a question like that. It goes back to the
beginning of all things. It is unanswerable. Every young woman wishes to please."

"But is it not conceivable," I asked, "that a young woman may sometimes wish to please herself
even at the expense of her appearance. Miss Smith assures me that she enjoys long walks and
games,--oh, games that you have not seen her play here--hockey, for instance, and cricket."

"Verrückt!" said the men in chorus. "A young woman should not think of herself at all. The
Almighty has created her to please us, and it does not please us when she wears muddy boots
and is as red as a poppy; at least, not while she is young. When she is married, and her place
is in the kitchen, she may be as red as she pleases. That is a different matter."

"Is it?" I said, and I wanted to ask why again; but I held my tongue. Some questions, as they
said, lead one too far afield.

The majority of visitors at a German watering-place take very little exercise of any kind.
They sit about the forest as our seaside visitors sit about the sands, and though they cannot
fill in their mornings by sea bathing, there are often medicinal baths that take as much time.
Then the Badearzt probably prescribes so many glasses of water from his favourite spring each
day, and a short walk after each glass, and a long rest after the midday dinner. Dinner is
the really serious business of the day, and often occupies two hours. Where there is still
a table d'hôte it is a tedious, noisy affair, conducted in a stuffy room, and even if you are
greedy enough to like the good things brought round you wish very soon that you were on a Cumberland
fell-side with a mutton sandwich and a mountain stream. You wish it even although you hate
mutton sandwiches and like meringues filled with Alpine strawberries and whipped cream; for
the clatter and the clack going on around you, and the asphyxiating air, bring on a demoralising
somnolence that you despise and cannot easily throw off. You sit about as lazily as anyone
else half through the golden afternoon, drink a cup of coffee at four o'clock, look at mountains
of cake, and then start for the restaurant, which is said to be eine gute Stunde from the hotel.
You find, as you expected, that you saunter gently uphill on a broad winding road through the
forest, and that you have a charming walk, but not what anyone in this country would call exercise
till they were about seventy. In case you should be weary you pass seats every hundred yards
or so, and when you have made your ascent you are received by a bustling waiter or a waitress
in costume, who expects to serve you with beer or coffee before you venture down the hill again.
By the time you get back to the hotel everyone is streaming in to supper, which is not as long
as dinner, but quite as noisy. After supper everyone sits about the verandah or the garden.
The men play cards, and smoke and drink coffee and Kirsch, the married women talk and do embroidery,
the maidens stroll about in twos and threes or sit down to Halma. There are never many young
men in these summer hotels, and the few there are herd with the older men or with each other
more than young men do in this country. What we understand by flirtation is not encouraged,
unless it is almost sure to lead to marriage; and what the Germans understand by flirtation
is justly considered scandalous and reprehensible. For the Germans have taken the word into
use, but taken away the levity and innocence of its meaning. They make it a term of serious
reproach, and those who dislike us condemn the shocking prevalence of Flirt (they make a noun
of the verb) in our decadent society.

The Pension price at a German summer hotel varies from four to fifteen marks, according to
the general style of the establishment and the position of the rooms engaged. In one frequented
by Germans the sitting-rooms are bare and formal, and as English visitors are not expected
no English papers are taken. The season begins in June and lasts till the end of September,
and you must be a successful hotel-keeper yourself to understand how so much can be provided
for so little, miles away from any market. Many of these summer hotels have been built high
up in the forest, and with no others near them. Some are run as a speculation by doctors. There
is hardly a woman or girl in Germany who has not needed a Kur at some time of her life, or
who does not need one every year if she has money and pretty gowns. The Badereise and everything
connected with it serves the German professional humorist much as the mother-in-law and the
drop too much serve the English one, perennially and faithfully. For the wife is determined
to have her Badereise, and the husband is not inclined to pay for it, and the family doctor
is called in to prescribe it. The artifices and complications arising suggest themselves, and
to judge by the postcards and farces of Germany never weary the public they are designed to amuse.

In Berlin, when the hot weather comes, you see the family luggage and bedding going off to
the sea-coast, for people who take a house take part of their bedding with them. There is so
little seaside and so much Berlin that prices rule high wherever there is civilised accommodation.
In Ruegen £1 a week per room is usual, and the room you get for that may be a very poor one.
In most German watering-places, both on the coast and in the forest, you can have furnished
rooms if you prefer them to hotel life, but as a rule you must either cook your own dinner
or go out to a hotel for it. The cooking landlady is as rare in the country as in the town.
Then in some places, at Oberhof, for instance, high upon the hills above Gotha, there are charming
little furnished bungalows. Friends of mine go there or to one of the neighbouring villages
every year, and never enter a hotel. They either take a servant with them, or find someone
on the spot to do what is necessary. When there are no mineral waters or sea baths to give
a place importance, Germans say they have come there to do a Luftkur. A delightful Frenchwoman
who has written about England lately is amused by our everlasting babble about a "change."
This one needs a change, she says, and that one is away for a change, and the other means to
have a change next week. So the Germans amuse us by their eternal "cures." One tries air, and
the other water, and the next iron, and the fourth sulphur, while the number and variety of
nerve cures, Blutarmut cures, diet cures, and obesity cures are bewildering. It is difficult
to believe that life in a hotel can cure anyone anywhere. However, in Germany, if you are under
a capable Badearzt, there may be some salvation for you, since he orders your baths, measures
your walks, and limits your diet so strictly. At one of the well-known places where people
who eat too much all the year round go to reduce their figures, there is in the chief hotels
a table known as the Corpulententisch, and a man who sits there is not allowed an ounce of
bread beyond what his physician has prescribed.

But the German Luxusbad, the fashionable watering-place where the guests are cosmopolitan and
the prices high--Marienbad, Homburg, Karlsbad, Schwalbach, Wiesbaden--all these places are
as well known to English people as their own Bath and Buxton. Homburg they have swallowed,
and I have somewhere come across a paragraph from an English newspaper objecting to the presence
of Germans there. It is the quiet German watering-place where no English come that is interesting
and not impossible to find. During the summer I spent in a Bavarian forest village I only saw
one English person the whole time, except my own two or three friends. I heard the other day
that the village and the life there have hardly altered at all, but that some English people
have discovered the trout streams and come every year for fishing. In my time no one seemed
to care about fishing. You went for walks in the forest. There was nothing else to do, unless
you played Kegel and drank beer; for it was only a Luftkur. There was no Badearzt and no mineral
water. To be sure, there were caves, huge limestone caves that you visited with a guide the
day after you arrived, and never thought about again. There were various ruined castles, too,
in the neighbourhood that made a goal for a drive in cases where there was a restaurant attached,
and not far off there was a curious network of underground beer-cellars that I did not see,
but which seemed to attract the men of our party sometimes. There were several inns in the
straggling village, for the place lay high up amongst the dolomite hills of Upper Franconia,
and people came there from the neighbouring towns for Waldluft. The summer I was there Richard
Wagner passed through with his family, and we saw him more than once. He stayed at the Kurhaus,
a hotel of more pretentions than the village inns, for it had a good sized garden and did not
entertain peasants. My inn, recommended by an old Nuremberg friend, was owned and managed by
a peasant proprietor, his wife, their elderly daughter, and two charming orphan grandchildren
in their early teens. The peasant customers had as usual a large rough room to themselves,
the town guests had their plain bare Speisesaal, and we Britishers possessed the summer house;
so we were all happy. The whole glory of the place was in the forest; for it was not flat sandy
forest that has no undergrowth, and wearies you very soon with its sameness and its still,
oppressive air. It was up hill and down dale forest, full of lovely glades, broken by massive
dolomite rocks; the trees not set in serried rows, but growing for the most part as the birds
and the wind planted them; a varied natural forest tended but not dragooned by man. The flowers
there were a delight to us, for we arrived early enough in the year to find lilies of the valley
growing in great quantities amongst the rocks, while a little later the stream and pathways
were bordered by oak and beech fern and by many wild orchises that are rare now with us. It
was not here, however, but in another German forest, where, one day when I had no time to linger,
I met people with great bunches of the Cypripedium calceolus that they had gathered as we gather
primroses. At the Bavarian watering-place we had the whole forest as much to ourselves as the
summer house, for no one seemed to wander farther than the seats placed amongst the trees by
the Verschönerungsverein.

    "Warum willst du weiter schweifen
    Sieh das Gute liegt so nah,"

says Goethe, and most Germans out for their summer holiday seem to take his advice in the most
literal way, and find their happiness as near home as they possibly can.

When you begin to think about the actual process of travelling in Germany, the tiresome business
of getting from the city to the forest village, for instance, you at once remember both the
many complaints you have heard Germans make of our system, or rather want of system, and the
bitter scorn poured on German fussiness by travelling Britons. The ways of one nation are certainly
not the ways of another in this respect. Directly I cross the German frontier I know that I
am safe from muddle and mistakes, that I need not look after myself or my luggage, that I cannot
get into a wrong train or alight at a wrong station, or suffer any injury through carelessness
or mismanagement. Everything is managed for me, and on long journeys in the corridor trains
things are well managed. But your carriage is far more likely to be unpleasantly crowded in
Germany than in England; and as hand-luggage is not charged for, the public takes all it can,
and fills the racks, the seats, and the floor with heavy bags and portmanteaux. In bygone years
the saying was that none travelled first class save fools and Englishmen, but nowadays Germans
travel in their own first-class carriages a good deal. The third-class accommodation is wretched,
more fit for animals than men. In some districts there are fourth-class uncovered seats on
the roof of the carriages, but I have only seen these used in summer. When I was last in Germany
a year ago there was much excitement and indignation over certain changes that were to make
travelling dearer for everyone. All luggage in the van was to be paid for in future, first-class
fares were to be raised, and no return tickets issued.

But you must not think that when you have bought a ticket from one place to another you can
get to it by any train you please. "I want the 10.15 to Entepfuhl," you say to the nearest
and biggest official you can see; and he looks at your ticket.

"Personenzug," he says in a withering way,--"the 10.15 is an express."

You say humbly that you like an express.

"Then you must get an extra ticket," he says, "This one only admits you to slow trains."

So you get your extra ticket, and then you wait with everyone else in a big room where most
people are eating and drinking to wile away the time. Don't imagine that you can find your
empty train, choose your corner, and settle yourself comfortably for your journey as you can
in England. You are well looked after, but if you are used to England you never quite lose
the impression in Germany that if you are not an official or a soldier you must be a criminal,
and that if you move an inch to right or left of what is prescribed you will hear of it. Just
before the train starts the warders open your prison doors and shout out the chief places the
train travels to. So you hustle along with everyone else, and get the best place you can, and
are hauled out by a watchful conductor when you arrive. If it is a small station there is sure
to be a dearth of porters, but you get your luggage by going to the proper office and giving
up the slip of paper you received when it was weighed. Never forget, as I have known English
people do, that you cannot travel in Germany without having your luggage weighed and receiving
the Schein for it. If you lose the Schein you are undone. I cannot tell you exactly what would
happen, because it would be a tragedy without precedent, but it is impossible that German officials
would surrender a trunk without receiving a Schein in exchange; at least, not without months
of rigmarole and delay. Even when it is the official who blunders the public suffers for it.
We were travelling some years ago from Leipzig to London when the guard examining our tickets
let one blow away. Luckily some German gentlemen in the carriage with us saw what happened,
gave us their addresses, and offered to help us in any way they could. But we had to buy a
fresh ticket and trust to getting our money back by correspondence. Six months later we did
get it back, and this is an exact translation of the letter accompanying it:--

     "In answer to your gracious letter of the 26th September, we
     inform your wellbornship, respectfully, that the Ticket
     Office here is directed, in regard to the ticket by you on
     the 23rd of September taken, by the guard in checking lost
     ticket Leipzig-London via Calais 2nd class, the for the
     distance Hanover to London outpaid fare of 71 m. 40 pf. by
     post to you to refund."

One must admire the mind that can compose a sentence like that without either losing its way
or turning dizzy.

But if you want to see what Germans can give you in the way of order and comfort you must leave
the railroad and travel in one of their big American liners. Even if you are not going to America,
but only from Hamburg to Dover, it is well worth doing. The interest of it begins the day before,
when you take your trunks to the docks and see the steerage passengers assembled for their
start. They are a strange gipsy-looking folk, for the most part from the eastern frontier of
Germany, bare-footed and wearing scraps of brighter colours than western people choose. When
we arrived the doctor was examining their eyes in an open shed, and we saw them huddled together
in families waiting their turn. There was no weeping and wailing as there is when the Irish
leave their shores. These people looked scared by the bustle of departure, and concerned for
the little children with them, and for their poor bundles of clothes; but they did not seem
unhappy. In the luggage bureau itself you came across the emigrant upsides with fortune, the
successful business German returning to America after a summer holiday in his native land,
and speaking the most hideously corrupt and vulgar English ever heard. The most harsh and nasal
American is heavenly music compared with nasal American spoken by a German tongue. The great
ship was crowded with people of this type, and the resources of Europe could hardly supply
them with the luxuries they wanted. We had a special train next day to Cuxhaven, and an army
of blue-coated white-gloved stewards to meet us on the platform, and a band to play us on board.
Our private rooms were hung with pale blue silk and painted with white enamel and furnished
with satin-wood; the passages had marble floors; there were quantities of flowers everywhere,
and books, and the electric light. In fact, it was the luxurious floating hotel a modern liner
must be to entice such people as those I saw in the luggage bureau to travel in it. The meals
were most elaborate and excellent; and I feel sure that any royal family happening to travel
incognito on the ship would have been satisfied with them. But my neighbours at table were
not. "We shall not dine down here again," said one of them, speaking with the twang I have
described. "After to-night we shall have all our meals in the Ritz Restaurant." I looked at
her reflectively, and next day after breakfast I stood on the bridge and looked at the other
emigrants. The women were singing an interminable droning mass, the men sat about on sacks
and played cards, the bare-footed children scuttled to and fro.

"One day some of these people will come back in a Luxus cabin," said a German acquaintance to me.

"And they will dine in the Ritz Restaurant, because our dinner is not good enough for them,"
I prophesied.

Directly we got to Dover every feature of our arrival helped us to feel at home. There was
a batch of large good-natured looking policemen, whose function I cannot explain, but it was
agreeable to see them again. There was no order or organisation of any kind to protect and
annoy you. The authorities had thoughtfully painted the letters of the alphabet on the platform
where the luggage was deposited, and you were supposed to find your own trunks in front of
your own letter. I, full of German ideas still, waited a weary time near my letter. "You'll
never get them that way," said an English friend. "You'd much better go to the end of the platform
and pick them out as you can." So I went, and found a huge pile of luggage pitched anyhow,
anywhere, and picked out my own, seized a porter, made him shoulder things, and followed him
at risk to life and limb. All the luggage leaving Dover was being tumbled about at our feet,
and when we tried to escape it we fell over what had arrived. Porters were rushing to and fro
with trunks, just as disturbed ants do with eggs, but in this case it was the German passengers
who felt disturbed. They were not used to such ways. When they had to duck under a rope to
reach the waiting train they grew quite angry, and said they did not think much of the British
Empire. But there was worse to come for us all. Breakfast on board had been early and a fog
had delayed our arrival. We were all hungry and streamed into the refreshment room. We filled it.

"What is there to eat?" said one.

The young woman with the hauteur and detachment of her calling did not speak, but just glanced
at a glass dish under a glass cover. There were two stale looking ham sandwiches.

"Well," says my Englishman, when I tell him this true story--"we are not a greedy nation."

"But how about the trunks that were not under their right letters?" I ask.

"Who in his senses wants to find trunks under letters?" says he. "The proper place for trunks
is the end of the platform. Then you can tear out of the train and find yours first and get
off quickly. When you are all dragooned and drilled an ass comes off as well as anyone else.
You place a premium on stupidity."

"But that is an advantage to the ass," I say; "and in a civilised State why should the ass
not have as good a chance as anyone else?"

The argument that ensues is familiar, exhausting, and interminable. "An ass is an ass wherever
he lives," says someone at last; and everyone is delighted to have a proposition put forward
to which he can honestly agree.

CHAPTER XXIV

PEASANT LIFE

The peasant proprietors of Southern Germany are a comfortable, prosperous class. "A rich peasant"
begins your comic story as often as "a rich Jew." The peasants own their farms and a bit of
forest, as well as a vineyard or a hop garden. They never pretend to be anything but peasants;
but when they can afford it they like to have a son who is a doctor, a schoolmaster, or a pastor.
Unless you have special opportunities you can only watch peasant life from outside in Germany,
for you could not stay in a Bauernhaus as you would in a farmhouse in England. At least, you
could not live with the family. In some of the summer resorts the peasants make money by furnishing
bedrooms and letting them to Herrschaften, but the Herrschaften have to get their meals at
the nearest inn. The inner life of the peasant family is rougher than the inner life of the
farmer's family in England, though their level of prosperity is as high, possibly higher. You
cannot imagine the English farmer and his wife putting on costly and picturesque mediæval costumes
every Sunday and solemnly marching to church in them; but the German Bauer still does this
quite simply and proudly. In some parts of the Black Forest every valley has its own costume,
so that you know where a man lives by the clothes he wears. There is one valley where all the
girls are pretty, and on festive occasions or for church they wear charming transparent black
caps with wings to them. There is another valley where the men are big-boned and blackavised,
with square shaven chins and spare bodies, rather like our English legal type; and they go
to church in scarlet breeches, long black velvet coats, and black three-cornered hats. Their
women-folk wear gay-coloured skirts and mushroom hats loaded with heavy poms-poms. In Cassel
there are most curious costumes to be seen still on high days and holidays; from Berlin, people
go to the Spreewald to see the Wendish peasants, and in Bavaria there is still some colour
and variety of costume. But everywhere you hear that these costumes are dying out. The new
generation does not care to label itself, for it finds städtische Kleider cheaper and more
convenient. The Wendish girls seem to abide by the ways of their forefathers, for they go to
service in Berlin on purpose to save money for clothes. They buy or are presented with two
or three costumes each year, and when they marry they have a stock that will last a lifetime
and will provide them with the variety their pride demands. For they like to have a special
rig-out for every occasion, and a great many changes for church on Sundays. In Catholic Germany
a procession on a saint's day seems to have stepped down from a stained-glass window, the women's
gowns are so vivid and their bodies so stiff and angular. But to see the German peasantry in
full dress you must go to a Kirchweih, a dance, or a wedding.

You can hardly be in Germany in summer without seeing something of peasants' weddings, and
of the elaborate rites observed at them. Different parts of the empire have different ways,
and even in one district you will find much variety. We saw several peasant weddings in the
Black Forest one summer, and no two were quite alike. Sometimes when we were walking through
the forest we met a Brautwagen: the great open cart loaded with the furniture and wedding presents
the bride was taking as part of her dowry to her new home. It would be piled with bedding,
wooden bedsteads, chests of drawers, and pots and pans; and gay-coloured ribbons would be floating
from each point of vantage. Sometimes the bridal pair was with the cart, the young husband
in his wedding clothes walking beside the horse, the bride seated amongst her possessions.
Sometimes a couple of men in working clothes, probably the bridegroom and a friend, were carrying
the things beforehand, so that the new home should be ready directly after the wedding. We
happened to be staying in the Black Forest when our inn-keeper's daughter was going to marry
a young doctor, the son of a rich peasant in a neighbouring valley, and we were asked to the
wedding. Our landlord ran two inns, the one in which we stayed and another a dozen miles away,
which was managed by his wife and daughters. The wife's hotel was in a fashionable watering-place,
and offered a smarter background for a wedding than the one in our out-of-the-world little
town. It is the proper moment now for you to object that this could not have been a "peasant"
wedding at all, and has no place in a picture of peasant life; and I concede that the bride
and bridegroom, their parents, and certain of their friends all wore städtische Kleider. The
bride was in black silk, and the bridegroom in his professional black coat. But nearly all
the guests were peasants, and wore peasant costume; and the heavy long-spun festivities were
those usual at a peasant's wedding. We started with our bicycles at six o'clock in the morning,
and soon found ourselves in a straggling procession of carts and pedestrians come from all
the valleys round. The main road was like a road on a fair day. Everyone knew that there was
to be a Hochzeit at R., a big splendid Hochzeit, and everyone who could afford the time and
the money was going to eat and drink and dance at it. Everyone was in a holiday mood, and all
along the lovely forest road we exchanged greetings with our fellow-guests and gathered scraps
of information about the feast we were on our way to join. Every inn we passed had set out
extra tables, and expected extra custom that day, and when we got to one within a mile of R.
we found the garden crowded. People were ready by this time for their second breakfast, and
were having it here before making their appearance at the wedding. We were hungry and thirsty
ourselves, so we sat down under the shade of trees and ate belegtes Butterbrot and drank Pilsener
as our neighbours did. We arrived at R. just in time to remove the dust of the road, and then
walk, as we found our hosts expected us to do, in the wedding procession. First came the bride
and bridegroom, and then a long crocodile of bridesmaids, all wearing the curious high bead
wreaths possessed by every village girl of standing in this part of Germany. We witnessed the
civil ceremony, but though I have been present at several German civil weddings I remember
as little about them as about a visit to the English District Council Office where I have sometimes
been to pay taxes. In both cases there is a bare room, an indifferent official, some production
of official papers, and the thing is done. When the bride and bridegroom had been made legally
man and wife they headed the waiting procession again, and proceeded to the church for the
real, the religious ceremony. It was packed with people, and the service, which was Catholic,
lasted a long time. When it was over everyone streamed back to the hotel, and as soon as possible
the Hochzeitsmahl began; but though we were politely bidden to it we politely excused ourselves,
for we knew that the feast would last for hours and would be more than we could bear. Till
evening, they said, it would last, and there would be many speeches, and it was a broiling
summer day. The guests we perceived to be a mixed company of peasants in costume, of inn-keepers
and their families in ordinary clothes, and of university students in black coats who were
removed from the peasantry by their education, but not by birth and affection. The invited
guests sat down to dinner in the Speisesaal, but the hotel garden was crowded with country
people who paid for what they consumed. The dinner served to us and to others out here was
an unusually good one, so we discovered that people who attend a wedding unasked get a spectacle,
a dance, and extra fine food for their money. Towards the end of the afternoon before we left
R. we looked in at the ballroom, where dancing had begun already.

At another peasant's wedding in the Black Forest we saw some quaint customs observed that were
omitted at R. In this case the bride and bridegroom were themselves peasants, and wore the
costume of their valley. The bride was said to be well endowed, but she was extremely plain.
Amongst German peasants, however, beauty hardly counts. What a woman is worth to a man, he
reckons partly in hard cash and partly in the work she can do. There were two charmingly pretty
girls in the Bavarian village where we once spent a summer, but we were told that they had
not the faintest chance of marriage, because, though they belonged to a respectable family,
they were orphans and dowerless. Auerbach's enchanting story of Barfüssele, in which the village
Cinderella marries the rich peasant, is a fairy story and not a picture of real life. The feast
at this second wedding we saw must have cost a good deal, for it was prepared at our hotel
for a large crowd of guests and lasted for hours. It was an agitating wedding in some of its
aspects. The day before we had been startled at irregular but frequent intervals by loud gunshots,
and we were told that these were fired in welcome of the wedding guests as they arrived. When
the bride appeared with her Brautwagen and an escort of young men there was a volley in her
honour. We did not go to church to see that wedding, as we were not attracted by the bridal
pair; but we watched the crowd from our windows, and as it was a wet day, endured the sounds
of revelry that lasted for hours after the feast began. There was no dancing at this marriage,
and as each batch of guests departed a brass band just outside our rooms played them a send-off.
It was a jerky irritating performance, because the instant the object of their attentions disappeared
round the turn of the hill they stopped short, and only began a new tune when there was a new
departure. We were rather glad when the day came to an end. In the Black Forest you always
know where there is a wedding, because two small fir trees are brought from the forest decked
with flying coloured streamers of paper or ribbon, and set on either side of the bride's front
door.

The German peasant loves his pipe and his beer, and on a Sunday afternoon his game of Kegel;
but on high days and holidays he likes to be dancing. He and she will trudge for miles to dance
at some distant village inn. You meet them dressed in their best clothes, walking barefoot
and carrying clean boots and stockings. How they can dance in tight boots after a long hot
walk on a dusty road, you must be a German peasant yourself to understand. The dance I remember
best took place in a barn belonging to a village inn in Bavaria. I went with several English
friends to look on at it, and the men of our party danced with some of the village girls. The
room was only lighted by a few candles, and it was so crowded that while everyone was dancing
everyone was hustled. But we were told that anyone who chose could "buy the floor" for a time
by giving sixpence or a shilling to the band. Two of the Englishmen did this, and the crowd
looked on in solemn approval while they waltzed once or twice round with the pretty granddaughters
of our hosts. It was a scene I have often wished I could paint, the crowd was so dense, and
the faces, from our point of view, so foreign. The candles only lifted the semi-darkness here
and there, but where their light fell it flashed on the bright-coloured handkerchiefs which
the women of this village twisted round their heads like turbans, and pinned across their bosoms.
I think it is absurd, though, to say that German peasants dance well. They enjoy the exercise
immensely, but are heavy and loutish in their movements, and they flounder about in a grotesque
way with their hands on each other's shoulders. At a Kirchweih they dance in the open air.

A Kirchweih is a feast to celebrate the foundations of the village church, and it takes the
form of a fair. The preparations begin the day before, when the roundabouts and shooting booths
are put up in the appointed field. On the day before the Kirchweih in our Bavarian village
I found the inn-keeper's wife cooking what we call Berlin pancakes in a cauldron of boiling
fat, the like of which I have never seen before or since for size. It must have held gallons.
All day long she stood there throwing in the cinnamon flavoured batter, and taking out the
little crisp brown balls. They are, it seems, a favourite dainty at a Bavarian Kirchweih, and
must be provided in large quantities. On the fair field itself the food offered by the stall-keepers
seemed to be chiefly enormous slabs of shiny gingerbread made in fanciful shapes, such as hearts,
lyres, and garlands, cheap sweetmeats, and the small boiled sausages the artless German eats
in public without a knife and fork.

The Kirchweih is the chief event of the summer in a German village, and is talked of for weeks
beforehand. The peasants stream in from all the villages near, and join in the dancing and
the shooting matches. When the day is fine and the fair field has a background of wooded hills,
you see where the librettists of pre-Wagnerian days went for their stage effects. All the characters
of many a German opera are there correctly dressed, joining in the songs and dances, shooting
for wagers, making love, sometimes coming to blows. But you may look on at a Kirchweih from
morning till night without seeing either horseplay or drunkenness. Not that the German peasant
is an opera hero in his inner life. He is a hard-working man, God-fearing on the whole, stupid
and stolid often, narrowly shrewd often, having his eye on the main chance. When he is stupid
but not God-fearing he dresses himself and his wife in their best clothes, puts his insurance
papers in his pockets, sets his thatched house on fire, and goes for a walk. Then he is surprised
that he is caught and punished. Fires are frequent in German villages, and in a high wind and
where the roofs are of straw destruction is complete sometimes. You often come across the blackened
remains of houses, and you always feel anxious about the new buildings that will replace them.
It is a good deal to say, but I believe our own jerry-builders are outdone in florid vulgarity
by German villadom, and the German atrocities will last longer than ours, because the building
laws are more stringent. But the old Bauernhaus still to be seen in most parts of the Black
Forest is dignified and beautiful. The Swiss chalet is a poor gim-crack thing in comparison.
Sometimes the German house has a shingled roof, and sometimes a thatched roof dark with age,
and it has drooping eaves and an outside staircase and balcony of wood. It shelters the farm
cattle in the stables on the ground floor, and the family on the upper floor, and in the roof
there are granaries. But the beautiful old thatched roofs are gradually giving place to the
slate ones, because they burn so easily, and fire, when it comes, is the village tragedy. I
can remember when a fire in a big German commercial town was proclaimed by a beating drum,
the noisy parade of fire-men, the clanging of bells, and all the hullaballoo that panic and
curiosity could make. But last year, in Berlin, looking at houses like the tower of Babel,
I said something of fire, and was told that no one felt nervous nowadays, the arrangements
for dealing with it were so complete.

"People just look out of the window, see that there is a fire next door, or above or beneath
them, and go about their business," said my hosts. "They know that the fire brigade will do
their business and put it out."

I did not see a fire in Berlin, so I had no opportunity of witnessing the remarkable coolness
of the Berliner in circumstances the ordinary man finds trying; but I saw a fire in my Bavarian
village, and there were not many cool people there. The summons came in the middle of the night
with the hoarse insistent clanging of the church bell, the sudden start into life of the sleeping
village, the sounds in the house and in the street of people astir and terrified. Then there
came the brilliant reflection of the flames in the opposite windows, and the roar and crackle
of fire no one at first knew where. It was only a barn after all, a barn luckily detached from
other buildings. Yet when we got into the street we found most of the population removing its
treasures, as if danger was imminent. All the beds and chairs and pots and pans of the place
seemed to be on the cobble-stones, and the women wailed and the children wept. "But the village
is not on fire," we said. "It may be at any moment," they assured us, and were scandalised
by our cold-bloodedness. For we had not carted our trunks into the street, but hastened towards
the burning barn to see if we could help the men and boys carrying water. The weather was still
and the barn isolated, so we knew there was no danger of the fire spreading. But the villagers
were too excitable and too panic-stricken to be convinced of this. All their lives they had
dreaded fire, and when the flames broke out so near them they thought that their houses were
doomed.

Next to fire the German peasant hates beggars and gipsies. We were six months in the Black
Forest and only met one beggar the whole time, and he was a decent-looking old man who seemed
to ask alms unwillingly. But in some parts of Germany there are a great many most unpleasant-looking
tramps. The village council puts up a notice that forbids begging, and has a general fund from
which it sends tramps on their way. But it does not seem able to deal with the caravans of
gipsies that come from Hungary and Bohemia. In a Thuringian village we came down one morning
to find our inn locked and barricaded as if a riot was expected, and an attack. Even the shutters
were drawn and bolted. "Was ist denn los?" we asked in amazement, and were told that the gipsies
were coming.

"But will they do you any harm?" we asked.

"They will steal all they can lay hands on," our landlady assured us. She was a widow, and
her brewer, the only man in her employ, was, we supposed, standing guard over his own house.
We thought the panic seemed extreme, but we had never encountered Hungarian gipsies on the
warpath, and we did not know how many were coming. So, after assuring our excited little Frau
that we would stand by her as well as we could, we went to an upper window to watch for the
enemy. Presently the procession began, a straggling procession of the dirtiest, meanest-looking
ruffians ever seen. There was waggon after waggon, swarming with ragamuffins of both sexes
and all ages. The men were mostly on foot, casting furtive glances to right and left, evident
snappers-up of unconsidered trifles, truculent, ragged, wearing evil-looking knives by their
sides. During their transit the village had shut itself up, as Coventry did for Godiva's ride.
When we all ventured forth again the talk was of missing poultry and rifled fruit trees. The
geese had luckily started for their day on the high pastures before the bad folk came; for
in a German village there is always a gooseherd. Sometimes it is a little boy or girl, sometimes
an old woman, and early in the morning whoever has the post collects the whole flock, drives
it to a chosen feeding ground, spends the day there, and brings it back at night. It must be
a contemplative life, and in dry weather pleasant. I think it would suit a philosopher if he
could choose his days. In our Franconian village the gooseherd was a little boy, vastly proud
of his job. Every morning, long before we were up, he would stride past our windows piping
the same tune, and at the sound of it every goose in the village would waddle out from her
night quarters and join the cackling fussy crowd at his heels. Every evening as dusk fell he
came back again, still piping the same tune, and then the geese would detach themselves in
little groups from the main body and find their own homes as surely as cows do.

Every rural district of Germany has its own novelist. Fritz Reuter, Frenssen, Rosegger, Sudermann
all write of country life in the places they know best. In Hauptmann's beautiful plays you
see the peasant through a veil of poetry and mysticism. Auerbach, I am told, is out of fashion.
His stories end well mostly, his construction one must admit is childish, and his characters
change their natures with the suddenness of a thunderbolt to suit his plot. Yet when I have
Sehnsucht for Germany, and cannot go there in reality, I love to go in fancy where Auerbach
leads. He takes you to a house in the Black Forest, and you sit at breakfast with the family
eating Haferbrei out of one bowl. You know the people gathered there as well as if you had
been with them all the summer, and you know them now in winter time when the roads are deep
in snow and a wolf is abroad in the forest. The story I am thinking of was published in 1860,
and I believe that there are no wolves now in the Black Forest. But as far as one outside peasant
life can judge, I doubt whether anything else has changed much. You hear the history of the
Grossbauer, the rich farmer of the district whose breed is as strong and daring as the breed
of the Volsungs. Seven years ago the only son and heir of this forest magnate, Adam Röttman,
loved a poor girl called Martina, and their child Joseph is now six years old. Adam is still
faithful to Martina, but his parents will not consent to their marriage, and insists on betrothing
him to an heiress as rich as he will be, Heidenmüller's Toni. The whole village looks on at
the romance and sides with Martina; for Adam's mother, die wilde Röttmännin, is one of those
stormy viragoes I myself have met amongst German women. She masters her husband and son with
her temper. She is so rich that she has more Schmalz than she can use, and so mean that she
would rather let it go bad than give it to the poor. At midnight, when the roads are deep in
snow, she sends for the Pfarrer, and when he risks his life and goes because he thinks she
is dying, he finds she is merely bored and wanted his company; for she has been used to think
that she could tyrannise over all men because she was richer and more determined than most.
Next day she gets up, orders her husband and son to put on Sunday clothes, and well wrapped
up in Betten drives with them to the Heidenmühle, where Adam is formally betrothed to Toni.
The girl knows all about Martina, but she consents because she would marry anyone to escape
from her stepmother, who treats her cruelly, and in order to hurt her feelings has given her
mother's cup to the Knecht. After the betrothal the two fathers sit together and drink hot
spiced wine, the two mothers gossip together, and the Brautpaar talk sadly about Martina, who
should be Adam's wife, and Joseph who is his child. At last Adam could bear it no longer. He
would go straight to Martina, he said, and he would be with Toni again before the Christmas
tree was lighted; and then he would either break with Toni or feel free to marry her. "The
bride stared at Adam with amazement as he put on his grey cloak and his fur cap and seized
his pointed stick. He looked both handsome and terrible." For he is one of the heroes Germans
love, a giant who once held a bull by its horns while Martina escaped from it, who is called
the Gaul, because for a wager he once carried the cart and the load a cart horse should have
carried, and who on this wild winter night meets the wolf in the forest and kills it with his
stick. So you see him striding through the snow-bound forest to the village where Martina lives,
dragging the wolf after him, as strong as Siegfried, as credulous as a child, ready to believe
that the voices of his father and his child both looking for him in the snow are witches' voices.
But when he gets to the village he finds that his child, so long disowned and disregarded,
is really lost, and is looking for him in the snow. The hatter who tramps from village to village
hung with hats met him, and tried to turn him back. But the child said he had come out to find
his father, and must go on. Then every man in the village assembles at the Pfarrhaus, and,
led by the Pfarrer's brother-in-law (an eventual husband for Heidenmüller's Toni), sets out
to find Joseph in the snow. Before they start Adam vows before the whole community that whether
the child is alive or dead nothing shall ever part him again from Martina, and when he has
made this vow you see the whole company depart in various directions carrying torches, ladders,
axes, and long ropes. Meanwhile the child, after some alarms and excursions, meets three angels
(children masquerading), who take him with them to the mill where Toni has just lighted the
Christmas tree. She rescues Joseph from die wilde Röttmännin, and that same night, her father
dying of his carouse, she becomes a rich heiress and free of her wicked stepmother. Joseph's
hostile grandfathers, after a fight in the snow, make friends, the obliging Pfarrer marries
Adam and Martina at midnight, and soon after the wilde Röttmännin who will not be reconciled
leaves this world. So everyone who deserves happiness gets it. But though you only half believe
in the story you have been in the very heart of the Black Forest, the companion of its people,
the observer of their most intimate talk and ways. You have heard the women gossip at the well,
you have made friends with Leegart the seamstress, who believes that quite against her will
she is gifted with supernatural powers. There is Häspele, too, who made Joseph his new boots,
and would marry Martina if he could; and there is David, the father of Martina, who was hardly
kept from murdering his daughter when she came home in disgrace, and whose grandson becomes
the apple of his eye. The whole picture of these people is vivid and enchanting, touched with
quaint detail, veined with the tragedy of their lives, glowing with the warm human qualities
that knit them to each other. The South German loves to tell you that his country is ein gesegnetes
Land, a blessed country, flowing with milk and honey; and whether you are reading Auerbach's
peasant stories or actually staying amongst his peasant folk, you get this impression of their
natural surroundings. Nature is kind here, grows forest for her people on the hill-tops, and
wine, fruit and corn in her sheltered valleys, ripens their fruit in summer, gives them heavy
crops of hay, and sends soft warm rain as well as sun to enrich their pastures.

In the eastern provinces of Germany the conditions of life amongst the poor are most unhappy.
Here the land belongs to large proprietors, and until modern times the people born on the land
belonged to the landlords too. No man could leave the village where he was born without permission,
and he had to work for his masters without pay. Even in the memory of living men the whip was
quite commonly used. In her most interesting account of a Silesian village,[3] Gertrud Dyhrenfurth
says that the present condition of the peasantry in this region compares favourably with former
times, but she admits that they are still miserably overworked and underpaid. They are no longer
legally obliged to submit to corporal punishment, nor can they be forced to live where they
were born, and as they emigrate in large numbers, scarcity of labour has brought about slightly
improved conditions for those remaining. But a man's wage is still a mark a day in summer and
90 pf. in winter. A woman earns 60 pf. in summer and 50 pf. in winter. Besides receiving these
wages, a family regularly employed lives rent free and gets a fixed amount of coal, and at
harvest time some corn and brandy. You cannot say the family has a house or cottage to itself,
because the system is to build long bare-looking barracks in which numbers of working families
herd like rabbits in a warren. In modern times each family has a kitchen to itself, so there
is one warm room where the small children can be kept alive. In former times there was a general
kitchen, and in the rooms appointed to each family no heating apparatus; therefore, if the
children were not to die of cold, they had to be carried every morning to the kitchen, where
there was a fire. The present plan has grave disadvantages, as in one room the whole family
has to sleep, eat, wash, and cook for themselves and for the animals in their care. The furniture
consists of two or three bedsteads with straw mattresses and feather plumeaux, shelves for
pots and pans, a china cupboard with glass doors, a table in the window, and wooden benches
with backs. This installation is quite luxurious compared with that of a milkmaid's or a stablemaid's
surroundings sixty or seventy years ago. "Her home consisted of a plank slung from the stable
roof and furnished with a sack of straw and a plumeau. Her small belongings were in a little
trunk in a wooden niche, her clothes in a chest that stood in the garret." Here is the life
history of an unmarried working woman of eighty-six born in a Silesian village. When she left
school she was apprenticed to a thrasher, with a yearly wage of four thalers, besides two chemises
and two aprons as a Christmas present. Even in those days this money did not suffice for clothing,
although even in winter the women wore no warm under-garments. Quite unprotected, they waded
up to the middle in snow.... In summer the girl was in the barn and at work by dawn; in winter
they threshed by artificial light. A bit of bread taken in the pocket served as breakfast.
The first warm meal was taken at midday. When the farm work was finished there was spinning
to do till 10 o'clock.

This woman "bettered herself" as she grew older till she was earning 35 thalers (£5, 5s. 0d.)
a year; she accustomed herself to live on this sum, and when wages increased, to put by the
surplus. So in her old age she is a capitalist, has saved enough for a decent funeral, for
certain small legacies, and for such an amazing luxury as a tin foot-warmer. The family she
faithfully served for so many years allows her coal, milk and potatoes, and when necessary
pays for doctor and medicine. Her weekly budget is as follows--

                                       Pf.
  Rent                                 50
  Bread                                25
  Rolls                                 5

                 Carried forward       80

                                       Pf.
                 Brought forward       80
  ¼ lb. butter                         25
  ¼ lb. coffee and chicory             25
  Sugar                                15
  1 lb. flour                          14
  Salt                                  1
  Light                                10
  Washing                               5
                                   ------
                                   1m. 75
                                   ======

Meat is of course out of the question, and in discussing another budget Fräulein Dyhrenfurth
shows that a family of eight people could only afford three quarters of a pound a week. Their
yearly expenses amounted to 455 m. 26 pf., so each one of the eight had to be fed and clothed
for about 1s. 1d. a week. Women are still terribly overworked in the fields. They used to begin
at four o'clock in the morning, and go on till nine at night,--a working day, that is, of seventeen
hours for a wife and the mother of a family. When the family at the mansion had the great half-yearly
wash, the village women called in to help began at midnight, and stood at the washtub till
eight o'clock next evening, twenty hours, that is, on end. In 1880 the working day was shortened,
and only lasts now from five in the morning till seven at night, with a two hours' pause for
dinner and shorter pauses for breakfast and vesper. But, on the other hand, women do work now
that only men did in former times. The threshing of corn has fallen entirely into their hands,
and they follow a plough yoked with oxen. Both kinds of work are heavy and unpleasant. But
women are glad to get the threshing in winter time when other work fails, and it is often on
this account that the proprietors do not introduce threshing machines.

At certain times of the year Poles swarm over the frontier into the eastern provinces of Germany,
but Fräulein Dyhrenfurth says that they do not work for lower wages. The women have no house-keeping
to do, and can therefore give more hours to field labour. One woman prepares a meal for a whole
gang of her country people, and they live almost entirely on bread, potatoes, and brandy. They
do not mix with the Germans, but spend their evenings and Sundays in playing the harmonium,
dancing, and drinking. They return every year, are always foreigners in Germany, and are very
industrious, religious, contented, and cheerful, but inclined to drink and fight.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Ein schlesisches Dorf und Rittergut, von Gertrud Dyhrenfurth. Leipzig, Duncker und Humblot.

CHAPTER XXV

HOW THE POOR LIVE

Poverty in German cities puts on a more respectable face than it does in London or Manchester.
It herds in the cellars and courtyards of houses that have an imposing frontage; and when it
walks out of doors it does not walk in rags. But you only have to look at the pinched faces
of the children in the poorer quarters of any city to know that it is there. They are tidier
and cleaner than English slum children, but they make you wish just as ardently that you were
the Pied Piper and could pipe them all with you to a land of plenty. It would require more
experience and wider facts than I possess to compare the condition of the poor in England and
Germany, especially as the professed economists and philanthropists who make it their business
to understand such things disagree with each other about every detail. If you talk to Englishmen,
one will tell you that the German starves on rye bread and horse sausage because he is oppressed
by an iniquitous tariff; and the next will assure you that the German flourishes and fattens
on the high wages and prosperous trade he owes entirely to his admirable protective laws. If
you talk to the Anglophobe, he will tell you that the dirt, drunkenness, disease, and extravagance
of the English lower classes are the sin and scandal of the civilised world; that it is useless
for you to ask where the poor live in Berlin, because there are no poor. Everyone in Germany
is clean, virtuous, well housed, and well-to-do. If you talk to an honest, reasonable German,
he will recognise that each country has its own difficulties and its own shortcomings, and
that both countries make valiant efforts to fight their own dragons. He will tell you of the
suffering that exists amongst the German poor crowded into these houses with the imposing fronts,
and of all that statecraft and philanthropy are patiently trying to accomplish. Doctor Shadwell,
in his most valuable and interesting book Industrial Efficiency, says that the American has
to pay twice as much rent as the English working man, and that rents in Germany are nearer
the American than the English level. As wages are lower in Germany than in England, and as
meat and groceries are decidedly dearer, it is plain that the working man cannot live in clover.
Doctor Shadwell gives an example of a smith earning 1050 marks, and having to pay 280 for rent.
He had a wife and two children, and Doctor Shadwell reckoned that the family to make two ends
meet must live on 37 pf. per head per day; the prison scale per head being 80 pf. I know a
respectable German charwoman who earns 41 marks a month, and pays 25 marks a month for her
parterre flat in the Hof. She lets off all her rooms except the kitchen, and she sleeps in
a place that is only fit for a coal-hole. A work-girl pays her 6 marks a month for a clean
tidy bedroom furnished with a solid wooden bedstead, a chest of drawers, a sofa, and a table.
This girl works from 7.30 to 6 in a shop, she pays the charwoman 10 pf. for her breakfast,
10 pf. weekly for her lamp, and another 10 pf. for the use and comfort of the kitchen fire
at night. Her dinner of soup, meat, and vegetables the girl gets at a Privatküche for 40 pf.
So the workgirl's weekly expenses for food, fire, and lodging are 5 marks 20 pf., but this
does not give her an evening meal or afternoon coffee. The charwoman reckoned that she herself
only had 15 marks a month for food, fire, light, and clothes; but she got nearly all her food
with the families for whom she worked. She was a cheerful, honest body, and though she slept
in a coal-hole was apparently quite healthy. She looked forward to her old age with tranquillity,
because before long she would be in receipt of a pension from the State, a weekly sum that
with her habits of thrift and industry would enable her to live.

A German lady who chooses to teach in a Volksschule, because she thinks the Volk more interesting
than Higher Daughters, described a home to me from which one of her pupils came. The parents
had eight children, and the family of ten lived in two rooms. That is a state of things we
can match in England, unhappily. But my friend described this home, not on account of its misery,
but for the extraordinary neatness and comfort the mother maintained in it. "Every time I go
there," said my friend, who lived with her father and sister in a charming flat,--"every time
I go there I say to the woman, if only it looked like this in my home"; and there was no need
for me to see the rooms to understand what she meant; for I know the air of order and even
of solidity with which the poorest Germans will surround themselves if they are respectable.
They have very few pieces of furniture, but those few will stand wear and tear; they prefer
a clean painted floor to a filthy carpet, and they are so poor that they have no pence to spend
on plush photograph frames. I cannot remember what weekly wage this family existed on, but
I know that it seemed quite inadequate, and when I asked if the children were healthy as well
as clean and tidy, my friend admitted that they were not. In spite of the brave struggle made
by the parents, it was impossible to bring up a large family on such means, and the maladies
arising from insufficient food, fire, and clothing afflicted them. The case is, I think, a
typical one. English people are always impressed when they visit German cities by the tidy
clothes poor people wear, and if they are shown the right interiors, by their clean tidy homes.
But you need most carefully and widely collected facts and figures to judge how far the children
of a nation are suffering from poverty. It was found, for instance, in one German city, that
out of 1472 children examined in the elementary schools, 63 per cent. of the girls and 60 per
cent. of the boys were nicht völlig normal.

Moreover, there are whole classes of poor people in Germany whose homes are not tidy and comfortable,
who are crowded into cellars and courtyards, and who have neither time nor strength for the
decencies of life. The "Sweater" flourishes in Berlin as well as in London, and his victims
are as overworked as they are here. He is usually a Jew, it is said in Berlin, but I will not
guarantee the truth of that, for I have not observed that the Jew is anywhere a harder task-master
than the Christian. As Berlin grew, these spiders of society increased in numbers, finding
it easy and profitable to employ home workers and spare themselves the expenses of factories
and of insurance. Women who could not go out to work were tempted by the chance offered them
of earning a trifle at home, and woman-like never paused to reckon whether it was worth earning.
As the city gets larger every evil connected with the system increases. The worst paid are
naturally the incompetent rough peasant women who swarm into Berlin from the country districts,
because they think that it will be easier to sit at a machine than to labour in the fields.
These people have to buy their machines and their cotton at high prices from their employers,
and then they get 10 pf. for making a blouse. A lady who spends her life in working amongst
poor people told me that many of them worked for nothing in reality, because the trifle they
earned only just paid the difference between the food they had to buy ready cooked and the
food they might with more leisure prepare at home. They pay high rents for wretched homes,
£15, for instance, for a kitchen and one room in a dark courtyard. Under £13 it is impossible
to get anything in the poorest quarter of Berlin.

"The house itself looked respectable enough from outside," says Frau Buchholz, when she went
to see a girl who had just married a poor man; "but oh! those steep narrow stairs that I had
to mount, those wretched entrances on each floor, the miserable door handles, the sickly bluish-grey
walls, the shaky banisters! It was easy to see that the outside had been devised with a view
to investors, and the inside for poverty." In houses of this class there are often three courtyards,
one behind each other, all noisy and badly kept. The conditions of life in such circumstances
are no better than in our own notorious slums, but a slum seven storeys high, and presenting
a decent front to the world, does not suggest the real misery behind its regular row of windows,
nor does the quiet well-swept street give any picture of the rabbit warren in the courtyards
at the back. In the enormous "confection" trade of Berlin the home-workers are nearly all widows
and mothers of families, as the unmarried girls prefer to go to factories. A skilled hand can
earn a fair wage at certain seasons of the year, as the demand for skilled work in this department
always exceeds the supply. But the average wage of the unskilled worker is only 10 marks a
week, while it sinks as low as 4 marks for petticoats, aprons, and woollen goods. A corset
maker, who has learned her trade, can only make from 8 to 10 marks a week in a factory, while
a woman who sits at home and covers umbrellas gets 1 mark 50 pf. a dozen when the coverings
are of stuff, and slightly more when they are of silk. The extreme poverty of these home-workers
is a constant subject of inquiry and legislation, but for various reasons it is most difficult
to combat. The market is always over-crowded, because, badly paid as it is, the work is popular.
Women push into it from the middle classes for the sake of pocket-money, and from the agrarian
classes because they fancy a city life. Efforts are being made to organise them, and especially
to train the daughters of these women to more healthy and profitable trades. I went over a
small Volksküche in Berlin, and was told that there were many like it established by various
charitable agencies, and that the effect of them was to make the children ready to go into
service; a life that has some drawbacks, but should at any rate be wholesome and civilising,--a
better preparation for marriage, too, than to sit like a slattern over a machine all day, and
buy scraps of expensive ready-made food, because both time and skill are wanting for anything
more palatable. In the kitchen I visited there were sixteen children from the poorest families
in the neighbourhood, and, assisted by a superintendent and two teachers, they were preparing
a dinner that cost 30 pf. a head for 250 people. The rooms were clean and plainly furnished.
A small laundry business was run in connection with the kitchen, so that the girls should be
thoroughly trained to wash and iron as well as to cook. Of late years the working classes of
Berlin have adopted what they call Englische Tischzeit, and no one who knows the ways of the
English artisan will guess that the German means late dinner. He now does his long day's work,
I am told, on bread alone, and has the one solid meal in the twenty-four hours when he gets
home at night. Durch Arbeiten, he calls it, and people interested in the welfare of the poor
say it is bad for all concerned, but especially bad for the children, who come in too exhausted
to eat, and for the women, who have to cook and clean up when the day's business should be
nearly done. It is quite characteristic of some kinds of modern Germans that they should in
a breath condemn us, imitate us, and completely misunderstand our ways.

The business women of Germany have organised themselves. Der Kaufmännische Verband für Weibliche
Angestellte was founded by Herr Julius Meyer in 1889, and, beginning with 50 members, numbered
17,000 in 1904. Its aim has been to improve the conditions of life for women working in shops
and businesses, to carry on their education, and to help them when ill or out of work. It began
by opening commercial schools for women, where they could receive a thorough training in book-keeping,
shorthand, typewriting, and other branches of office work. These have been a great success,
have been imitated all over Germany, and have led to an expansion of the law enforcing on girls
attendance at the State continuation schools. The society was founded to remedy some crying
abuses amongst women employed in shops and offices, a working day of seventeen hours, for instance,
dismissal without notice, no rest on Sundays, no summer holiday, and not only a want of seats
but an actual prohibition to sit down even when unemployed. All these matters the society,
which has become a powerful one, has gradually set right. A ten-hours' day for grown-up women,
and eight hours for those under age, the provision of seats, an 8 o'clock closing rule, a month's
notice on either side, some hours of rest on Sunday, and a summer holiday are all secured to
members of the organisation. The system of "living in" does not obtain in Germany. Shops may
only open for five hours on Sundays now, and large numbers do not open at all. They may only
keep open after ten on twenty days in the year. Other reforms the society hopes to bring about
in time; and meanwhile it occupies itself both in finding work for members who are out of place,
and in protecting those who are sick and destitute.

The ladies of Germany have taken to philanthropic work with characteristic energy and thoroughness.
There is one society in Berlin that has 700 members, some of whom devote their whole time to
their poor neighbours. I am not going to give the name of the society; so I may describe one
of its secretaries, who personified the best modern type of German woman. She was about 27,
a dark-haired, slim, serious-looking person with delicate Jewish features and beautiful grey
eyes; a girl belonging to the wealthy classes, and able if she had chosen to lead a life of
frivolity and pleasure. But she had chosen instead to give herself to the sick, the afflicted,
the needy, and even to the sinning; for she was a moving spirit of the organisation that dives
down into the depths of the great city, and rescues those who have gone under. Her society
also does a great deal for the children of the very poor, not only for babies in crêches, but
for those who go to school. The members help these older ones with their school work, and when
the children are free teach them to wash, cook, and sew, and to play open-air games. They teach
the blind, they look after the deserted families of men in prison, and the older members act
as guardians to illegitimate children; for in Germany every illegitimate child must have a
guardian, and women are now allowed to act in this capacity. The secretary said they found
no difficulty in getting both married and single women to take up these good works.

"What do the parents say when their daughters take it up?" I asked, for I could not picture
the German girl as I had always known her going out into the highways and byways of the city,
leaving her cooking, her music, her embroidery, and her sentiment, and battling with the hideous
realities of life amongst the sick, the poor, and the more or less wicked of the earth.

"The parents don't like it," my girl with the honest eyes admitted. "When girls have worked
for us some time they often refuse to marry; at least, they refuse the arranged marriages proposed
to them. But we cannot stop on that account. If a girl does not wish to marry in this way it
is better that she should not. No good can come of it."

Then she went on to tell me how well it was that a child born to utmost shame and poverty should
have a woman of the better classes interested from the beginning in its welfare, and responsible
for its decent upbringing. It implied contact with various officials, of course, but she said
that the ladies who took this work in hand met with courtesy and support everywhere.

You have only to place this type of young woman beside the Backfisch, who represents an older
type quite fairly, to understand how far the modern German girl has travelled from the traditional
lines. If you can imagine the Backfisch married and mentally little altered in her middle age,
you can also imagine that she would find a daughter with the new ideas upsetting. At present
both types are living side by side, for there are still numbers of women of the old school
in Germany, women who passively accept the life made for them by their surroundings, whether
it suits their needs or not; and who would never strike out a path for themselves, even if
by doing so they could forget their own troubles in the troubles of others.

The State and Municipal establishments for the poor and sick have been so much described lately,
that everyone in England must be acquainted with all that Berlin does for its struggling citizens.
There are, of course, large hospitals and sanatoriums for consumption; and the admirable system
of national insurance secures help in sickness to every working man and woman, as well as a
pension in old age. "The club doctor and dispensary as we have them here do not exist," say
the Birmingham Brassworkers in their pamphlet. "In their stead leading doctors and specialists
(with very few exceptions) are at the service of the working man or woman."

"Yes," said a leading doctor to me when I quoted this; "we get about three half-pence for a
consultation, and we find them the most impossible people in the community to satisfy. As they
get medical advice for nothing they run from one doctor to another, and consult a dozen about
some simple ailment that a student could set right. We all suffer from them." So that is the
other side of the question.

But Berlin certainly manages its Submerged Tenth both more humanely and more wisely than we
manage ours. It begins, as one thinks any civilised country must, by separating those who will
not work from those who cannot. The able-bodied beggar, the drunkard, and other vagrants are
sent to a house of correction and made to work. The respectable poor are not driven to herd
with these people in Germany. They receive shelter and assistance at institutions reserved
for the deserving. In one of these old married people who cannot support themselves are allowed
to spend the evening of their lives together. Anyone desiring to know more about the charitable
institutions of Berlin will find a most interesting account of them in the pamphlet written
by the Birmingham Brassworkers, and published by P.S. King & Son. The bias of the authors is
so strongly German that when you have read to the end you begin to lean in the opposite direction,
and look for the things we manage better over here. "In 1900," they say, "there was such a
shortage of houses (in Berlin) that 1500 families had to be sheltered in the Municipal Refuge
for Homeless People." That is surely a worse state of affairs than in London. But when you
walk through London or a London suburb in winter, and are pestered at every crossing and corner
by able-bodied young beggars of both sexes, you begin to agree with the brassworkers. Berlin
is clear of beggars and crossing-sweepers all the year round, and you know that as far as possible
they are classified and treated according to their deserts. It is not possible for the individual
bent on his own business to know at a glance whether he will encourage vice by giving alms
or behave brutally to a deserving case by withholding them. The decision should never be forced
upon him as it is in England every day of his life.

CHAPTER XXVI

BERLIN

Once upon a time a German got hold of Aladdin's lamp, and he summoned the Djinn attendant on
the lamp. "Build me a city of broad airy streets," he bade him, "and where several streets
meet see that there is an open place set with trees and statues and fountains." All the houses,
even those that the poor inhabit, are to be big and white and shining, like palaces; but the
real palaces where princes shall live may be plain and grey. There are to be pleasure grounds
in the midst of the city, but they are to be woods rather than parks, because even you and
the lamp cannot make grass grow in this soil and climate. In the pleasure grounds, and especially
on either side of one broad avenue, there are to be sculptured figures of kings and heroes,
larger than life and as white as snow. The Djinn said it would be easy to build the city in
a night as the German desired, but that the sculpture could not be hurried in this way, because
artists would have to make it, and artists were people who would not work to order or to time.
The German, however, said he was master of the lamp, and that the city must be ready when he
wanted it early next morning. So the Djinn set to work and got the city ready in a night, sculpture
and all. But when he had finished he had not used half the figures and garlands and other stone
ornaments he had made. If he had been in England he might have reduced them in size, and given
them to an Italian hawker to carry about on his head on a tray. But he knew that hawkers would
not be allowed in the city he had built. So, as he was rather tired and anxious to be done,
he quickly made one more long, broad street stretching all the way from the pleasure ground
in the centre of the city to the forest that begins where the city ends; and on every house
in the street he put figures and garlands and gilded balconies and ornamental turrets, as many
as he could. The effect when he had finished pleased him vastly, and he said it was the finest
street in the city, and should be called the Kurfürstendamm. His master and all the Germans
who came to live in it agreed with him. They gave large rents for a flat in one of the houses,
and when they went to London and saw the smoky dwarfish houses there they came away as quickly
as possible and rubbed their hands and were happy, and said to each other, "How beautiful is
our Kurfürstendamm. We have as many turrets as we have chimneys, and we have garlands on our
balconies of green or gilded iron, and some of us have angelic figures made of red brick, so
that the angelic faces are checked with white where the bricks are joined together."

"But it does not become anyone from England to criticise the architecture and sculpture of
a foreign country," I said to the artist who told me the story of the lamp. "Our own is notoriously
bad."

"It is not you who will criticise ours," he answered. "By your own confession, you know nothing
whatever of architecture and sculpture, and when people know nothing they should either keep
silence or ask for information in the best quarter. You have my authority for saying that the
architects and sculptors of Berlin would have been better employed building dog-kennels."

"But I rather like your wide cheerful streets," I objected, "and your tall clean houses. Our
houses...."

"Your houses are little black boxes in which people eat and sleep. They do not pretend to anything.
Ours pretend to be beautiful, and are ridiculous. Moreover, in England there are men who can
build beautiful houses. You do not employ them much. You prefer your ugly little boxes. But
they are there. I know their names and their work."

"But what do you think of our statues?" I asked him.

"I don't think of them," he said; "I prefer to think of something pleasant. When I am in London
I spend every hour I have at the docks."

"I like the Sieges-Allee," I said boldly,--"it is so clean and cheerful."

"It was made for people who look at sculpture from that point of view," said my friend.

I hardly know where an artist finds inspiration in the streets of Berlin. It really makes the
impression of a city that has sprung up in a night, and that is kept clean by invisible forces.
The great breadth of the streets, the avenues of trees everywhere, and the many open places
make it pleasant; but you look in vain for the narrow lanes and gabled houses still to be found
in other German towns, and you are not surprised when Americans compare it with Chicago, because
it is so new and busy. It is indeed the city of the modern German spirit, and what it has of
old tradition and old social life lies beneath the surface, hidden from the eye of the stranger.
There is Sans-Souci, to be sure, and Frederick the Great, and the Grosser Kurfürst. There is
the double line of princes on either side of the Sieges-Allee. But modern Berlin dates from
1870, and so do all good Berliners, whatever their age may be. They are proud of their young
empire and of their big city, and of doing everything in the best possible way. There is unceasing
flux and growth in Berlin, so that descriptions written a few years ago are as out of date
as these impressions must be soon. For instance, I had counted steadfastly on finding three
things there that I cannot find at home: first and second-class cabs, hordes of soldiers everywhere,
and policemen who would run a sword through you if you looked at them; and of all these I was
more or less disappointed.

I did get hold of a second-class cab on my arrival in Berlin, but it nearly came to pieces
on the way, and I never saw another during my stay there. The cabs are all provided with the
taximeter now, so that the fare knows to a fraction what is due to the driver; and the drivers
are of the first class, and wear white hats. Anyone who wished to see a second-class cab would
have to make inquiries, and find a stand where some still languish, but before long the last
of them will probably be preserved in a museum. Cabs are not much used in Berlin, because communication
by the electric cars is so well organised. The whole population travels by them, the whole
city is possessed by them. If it is to convey a true impression, a description of Berlin should
run to the moan of them as they glide everlastingly to and fro. You can hardly escape their
noise, and not for long their sight. Even the Tiergarten, the Hyde Park of Berlin, is traversed
by them, which is as it should be in a municipal republic. This is what the Germans call their
city, for they are not conscious themselves of living under an autocracy or of being in any
sense of the word less free than, let us say, the English, a point of view most puzzling to
an English person, who is conscious from the moment he crosses the German frontier of being
governed for his good. But it is pleasant on a summer morning to be carried through the shady
avenues of the Tiergarten in an open car, whether it is an autocracy or a republic that arranges
it for you; and you reflect that in this and a thousand other ways Germany is an agreeable
country even if it is not a free one; especially for "the people" who have small means, and
are able to drive through the chief pleasure ground of their city for a penny. The conductors
of the cars are obliged to announce the name of the next halting-place, so that passengers
alighting may get up in time and step off directly, but on no account before the car stops.
Nothing is left to chance or muddle in Berlin, and unless you are a born fool you cannot go
astray. If you are a born fool you ask a policeman, as you would at home, and find another
dear illusion shattered. He does not draw his sword, he is neither gruff nor disobliging. He
greets you with the military salute, and calls you gracious lady. Then he answers your question
if he can. If not he gets out the little guide book he carries, and patiently hunts up the
street or the building you want. He is usually a good-natured rosy faced young man with a fair
moustache, and he will do anything in the world for you except control the traffic. That with
the best will in the world he cannot do. So he stands in the midst of it and smiles. Sometimes
he sits amidst it on a horse and looks solemn. But he never impresses himself on it. There
is a story of a policeman who went to London to learn from our men what to do, and who bemoaned
his fate when he got back. "I hold up my hand in just the same way," he said, "and then the
people run and the horses run, and there's a smash and I get put in prison." The Berliners
themselves say that they are not accustomed yet, as we have been for years, to regard the police
as their well-liked and trusted servants, and to obey their directions willingly. However this
may be, there is at present only one safe way of getting to the opposite side of a busy street
in Berlin, and that is to wait till a crowd gathers and charges across it in a bunch like a
swarm of bees.

Berlin is never asleep, and it is as light by night as by day. It is much pleasanter for a
woman without escort to come out of the theatre there than in London. She will find crowds
of respectable people with her, and they will not depart in their own cabs and carriages. They
will crowd into the electric cars, and she must know which car she wants and crowd with them.
The worst that can happen to her will be to find her car over-crowded, and in that case she
must not expect a man to give her his seat. I have seen a young German lady make an old lady
take her place, but I have never known men yield their seats to women. You do not see as many
private carriages in Berlin in a week as you do in some parts of London in an hour. Even in
front of the Opera House very few will be in waiting; and there is no fashionable hour for
riding and driving in the Tiergarten. I know too little about horses to judge of those that
were being ridden, or driven in private carriages; but the miserable beasts in cabs and carts
force the most ignorant person to observe and pity them. They look as if they were on their
way to the knacker's yard, and very often as if they must sink beneath the load they are compelled
to carry. It is comforting to reflect that horses will doubtless soon be too old-fashioned
for Berlin, and that all the cabs and vans of the future will be motors. The cars run early
enough in the morning for the workmen, and late enough at night for people who have had supper
at a popular restaurant after the theatre or a glass of beer at one of the Zelten, the garden
restaurants that in the time of Frederick the Great were really tents, and where the Berliners
flocked then as they do now to hear a band, look at the trees of the Tiergarten, and enjoy
light refreshments. When you get back to your house from such gaieties you find it locked and
in darkness, but though there is a "portier" you do not disturb him by calling out your name
as you would in Paris. In modern houses there is electric light outside each floor that you
switch on for yourself, and you have a race with it that you lose unless you are active; but
you soon learn to feel your way up to the next light when you are left in darkness. The Berlin
"portier" is not as much in evidence as the Paris concierge. He opens the door to strangers,
but if you stay or live in the house you are expected to carry two heavy keys about with you,
one for the street door and one for the flat. The modern doors have some machinery by which
they shut themselves noiselessly after you. You hear a great deal more said about "nerves"
in Germany than in England, and yet Germans seem to be amazingly indifferent to noise. They
will not tolerate the brass bands and barrel-organs that pester us, but that is because they
are fond of music. Screaming voices, banging doors, and the clatter of kitchens and business
premises seem not to trouble them at all. Most houses in Berlin are five or six storeys high,
and are built round the four sides of a small paved court. No one who has not lived in such
a house, and in a room giving on the court, can understand how every sound increases and reverberates.
Footsteps at dawn sound as if the seven-leagued boots had come, and were shod with iron. You
whisper that the kitchen on a lower floor in an opposite corner looks well kept, and the maid
hears what you say and looks at you smiling. I knew that the back premises of these big German
hives might harbour any social grade and almost any industry, and for a long time I vowed that
some one must live in our court whose business it was to hammer tin, and that he hammered it
most late at night and early in the morning. I had not heard anything like the noise since
I had lived in a high narrow German street paved with cobble-stones, and occupied just opposite
my windows by a brewer whose vans returned to him at daybreak and tumbled empty casks at his
door. But I never discovered my tin merchant in Berlin, and in time I had to admit that my
hosts were right. The noise I complained of was made by the cook washing up in the opposite
kitchen. I should not have noticed it if I had been a sensible person, and slept with my curtains
drawn and my double windows tight shut.

Of course, there are some quiet streets in Berlin, and there are charming homes in the "garden-houses."
Some of the quadrangles are built round a garden instead of a paved yard, and then you can
get a quiet pleasant flat with a balcony that looks on a garden instead of a street. The traditional
plan of a Berlin flat is most inconvenient and unpractical. In old-fashioned houses, and even
in houses built sixteen years ago or less, you find that one of the chief rooms is the only
thoroughfare between the bedrooms near the kitchen premises and the rooms near the front door.
Anyone occupying one of these back rooms, which are often good ones, can only get to the front
door by way of this thoroughfare, where he will usually find the family gathered together;
the maid, too, must pass through every time the door bell rings, and when she goes about her
business in the front regions her brooms and pails must pass through with her. The window of
this room, which is known as a Berliner Zimmer, is always in one corner and lights it insufficiently.
The Berliners themselves recognise its disadvantages, but I like to describe it, because I
observe amongst the Germans of to-day a fierce determination to destroy and deny everything
a foreigner might call a little absurd, even if it is characteristic; so I feel sure that if
I go to Berlin a few years hence there will not be a Berliner Zimmer left in the city, and
no Berliner will ever have seen or heard of one; nor will the flat doors have the quaint little
peepholes through which the maid's eye may be seen appraising you before she lets you in. The
newest houses, those in the Kurfürstendamm, for instance, have every "improvement"--central
heating, lifts, gas cooking stoves, sinks for washing up, and bathrooms that are a reality
and not a mere appearance. These bathrooms, I am assured, can be used without several hours'
notice and the anxious superintendence of the only person, the head of the family as a rule,
who understands the heating apparatus. Berlin, like Mr. Barrie's Admirable Crichton, has found
out how to lay on hot and cold. It has found out about electric light too, and it might teach
London how to use the telephone. Berlin talks to its friends by telephone as a matter of course,
asks them how they are, if they enjoyed the Fest last night, whether if you call on Tuesday
they will be at home. Perhaps when Mr. Wells goes to Berlin he will forsee a reaction, a revolt
against the incessant insistent bell that respects no occupation and allows no undisturbed
rest. It is a hurried generation that uses the telephone so much, for the letter boxes are
emptied eighteen times in twenty-four hours, and if the post is not quick enough or a telegram
too expensive for all you want to say you can send a card by the tube post.

Berlin is not the city of soldiers that the English fancy pictures it. English people, English
little boys, for instance, who would like to see all their lead soldiers come to life, must
go to one of the smaller garrison towns, where in every street and every square they will watch
men on the march and at drill. In those quarters of Berlin not occupied by barracks the population
is civilian. You see the grey and the dark blue uniforms everywhere, but not in masses and
not at work. The people rush like children to follow the guard changed at the Schloss every
day; just as they might in London, where soldiers are a rare spectacle. In a smaller town the
army is more evidently in possession. It fills the restaurants, occupies the front row of the
stalls at the opera, prevails in public gardens, and holds the pavement against the world.
But Berlin to all appearances belongs to its citizens, and provides for their profit and convenience.
They fill its multitude of houses. They say they make its laws and order its progress. At any
rate they live in an agreeable, well-managed city, full of air and light, and kept so clean
that most other cities seem slovenly and grimy by comparison. To go suddenly from Berlin to
Hamburg, for instance, gives you a shock; though Hamburg is incomparably more attractive and
delightful. But in Hamburg you may see bits of paper lying about, and dust on the pavement.
In Berlin there is no dust, and no one has ever seen an untidy bit of paper there. It is to
be hoped that no one ever travels direct from Berlin to London. What would he think of Covent
Garden Market? There are markets in Berlin, at least a dozen of them, but by midday they are
swept and garnished. You would not find a leaf of parsley or an end of string to tell you where
one had been.

CHAPTER XXVII

ODDS AND ENDS

The most amusing columns in German daily papers are those devoted to family advertisement.
There you find the prolix intimate announcements of domestic events compared with which the
first column of the Times is so bare, so nichtssagend.

    "The birth of a second son is announced with joy by Dr
        Johann Weber and Wife Martha, born Hansen."--Dresden,
        22 May 1907.

    "Emil Harzdorf and wife Magdalene, born Klaus, have the
        honour to announce the birth of a strong
        girl."--Hamburg, 26 May 1907.

Boy babies are nearly always stramm, the girl babies are kräftig, and the parents are hocherfreut,
as they should be. Engagements and marriages are advertised more simply, and your eye is not
caught by them as it is by the big black bordered paragraphs that inform the world that someone
has just left it.

    "To-day, in consequence of a stroke of apoplexy, my deeply
        loved husband, our dear father, grandfather,
        father-in-law, brother, and uncle fell asleep. In the
        name of the survivors, Olga Wagner, born
        Richter.--Leipzig, 23 May 1907."

This is a curt announcement compared with many. When the deceased has occupied any kind of
official post, or has been an employer of labour, a long register of his many virtues accompanies
the advertisement of his death. "He who has just passed away was an exemplary chief, a fatherly
friend and adviser, who by his benevolence erected an everlasting monument to himself in the
hearts of his colleagues and subordinates." He who had just passed away had been the head of
a small soap factory, and this advertisement was put in by the factory hands just beneath the
one signed by all the family. Another advertisement on the same page expresses thanks for sympathy,
"on the death of my dear wife, our good mother, grandmother, mother-in-law, aunt, sister-in-law,
and cousin, Frau Angelika Pankow, born Salbach."

A German friend who had to undergo an operation last year wrote just before to tell me she
expected to come through safely. "If not," she said, "you'll receive a card like this"--

  "Yesterday passed away
    Adelaide Deminski, born Weigert,
      Her heart-broken
                        Husband
                        Grandmother
                        Father
                        Mother
                        Sons
                        Daughters
                        Sons-in-law
                        Daughters-in-law
                        Brothers
                        Sisters
                        Brothers-in-law
                        Sisters-in-law
                        Uncles
                        Aunts
                        Cousins";

for Germans themselves laugh at these advertisements, and assure the inquiring foreigner that
their vogue has had its day. But if the inquiring foreigner looks at the right papers he will
find as many as ever. You will also find matrimonial advertisements in papers that are considered
respectable.

But when you turn to the news columns for details of some event that is startling the world,
whether it is a crime, an earthquake, a battle, or a royal wedding, you find a few lines that
vex you with their insufficiency. Our English papers have pages about a German coronation,
German manoeuvres, German high jinks at Köpenick. But when I wanted to see what happened in
London on our day of Diamond Jubilee I found five lines about Queen Victoria having driven
to St. Paul's accompanied by her family and some royal guests. I was in a country inn at the
time, and the paper taken there was one taken everywhere in the duchy. It is a great mistake
to think that German newspaper hostility to England dates from the Transvaal War. The same
journal that spared five lines to the Jubilee gave a column to a question asked by one of our
parliamentary cranks about the ill-treatment of natives by Britons in India. The question was
met by a complete and convincing denial, but we had to turn to our English papers to find that
recorded. The ---- Tageblatt printed the question with comments, and suppressed the denial.
As long ago as 1883, when there was cholera in Egypt, a little Thuringian paper we saw weekly
had frenzied articles about the evil English who were doing all they could to bring the scourge
to Germany. I think we had refused some form of quarantine that modern medical science considers
worse than useless. The tone of the press all through the Transvaal War did attract some attention
in this country, and since then from time to time we are presented with quotations from abusive
articles about our greed, our perfidy, and our presumption. I am not writing as a journalist,
for I know nothing whatever of journalism; but as a member of the general public I believe
that we are inclined to overrate the importance of these amenities, because we overrate the
part played by the newspaper in the average German household. One can only speak from personal
experience, but I should say that it hardly plays a part at all. Whatever Tageblatt is in favour
with the Hausherr comes in every morning, and is stowed away tidily in a corner till he has
time to look at it while he drinks his coffee and smokes his cigar. If the ladies of the household
are inclined that way they look at it too. But there really is not much to look at as a rule.
These paragraphs about the wicked British that seem so pugnacious when they are printed on
solid English paper in plain English words, are often in a corner with other political paragraphs
about other wicked nations. At times of crisis, when the leading papers are attacking us at
great length, the Germans themselves will talk of Zeitungsgeschrei and shrug their shoulders.
It is absurd to deny the existence of Anglophobia in Germany, because you can hardly travel
there without coming across isolated instances of it. But these isolated instances will stand
out against a crowded background of people from whom you have received the utmost kindness
and friendship; and of other people with whom your relations have been fleeting, but who have
been invariably civil. Unfortunately the German Anglophobe is a creature of the meanest breed,
and he impresses himself on the memory like a pain; so that one of him looms larger than fifty
others, just as the moment will when you had your last tooth out, and not the summer day that
went before and after. The truth is, that we are on the nerves of certain Germans. You may
live for ever in an English family and never hear a German mentioned. You would assuredly not
hear the nation everlastingly discussed and scolded. As far as we are concerned, they are welcome
to their own manners, their own ways, and their own opinions. If they would only take their
stand on these and leave ours alone we could meet on equal terms. But that is the one thing
this particular breed of German cannot do. He must be always arguing with you about the superiority
of his nation to yours, and you soon think him the most tiresome and offensive creature you
ever met. In private life you can usually avoid him and seek out those charming German people
who, even if their Tageblatt teaches them that they should hate England, will never extend
their hatred to the English stranger within their gates, and who will admit you readily and
kindly to their pleasant unaffected lives. Germany is full of such people, whatever the German
newspapers are saying.

Presumably every country has the press that suits it, and in one respect German journalism
is more dignified and estimable than our own. It does not publish columns of silly society
gossip, or of fashions that only a duchess can follow and only a kitchen-maid can read. Nor
would the poorest, smallest provincial Tageblatt descend to the depths of musical criticism
in which one of our popular dailies complacently flounders all through the London season.

"I cannot tell you much about last night's Wagner opera, because to my great annoyance the
auditorium was dark nearly all the time. Once when we were allowed to see each other for a
moment I noticed that the Duchess of Whitechapel was in her box, looking so lovely in cabbage
green. Mrs. 'Dicky' Fitzwegschwein was in the stalls with a ruby necklace and a marvellous
coat of rose velours spangled in diamonds, and on the grand tier I saw Lady 'Bobby' Holloway,
who is of course the daughter-in-law of Lord Islington, in black net over silver, quite the
dernier cri this season, and looking radiant over her sister Lady Yolande's engagement to the
Duke of Bilgewater. Richter conducted with his usual brilliance, and the new Wotan sang with
great élan, although he was obviously suffering from a cold in his head."

It is impossible to imagine Berlin waking some winter morning to find such a "criticism" as
this on its breakfast table. In Germany, people who understand music write about music, and
people who understand about fashions write about fashions, and the two subjects, both of them
interesting and important, are kept apart. Society journalists who write about Lady Bobbies
and Mrs. Fitzwegschweins do not exist yet in Germany, and so far the empire seems to worry
along quite comfortably without them. I once asked a well-known English journalist who is of
German birth, why one of our newspaper kings did not set up a huge, gossipy, frivolous paper
in Berlin, and it was explained to me that it would be impossible, because the editor and his
staff would probably find themselves in prison in a week. What we understand by Freedom of
the Press does not exist there.

On the other hand, books and pamphlets are circulated in Germany that would be suppressed here;
and the stage is freer than our own. Monna Vanna had a great success in Berlin, where Mme.
Maeterlinck played the part to crowded audiences. Salome is now holding the stage both as a
play and with Richard Strauss' music as an opera; Gorky's Nachtasyl is played year after year
in Berlin. Both French and German plays are acted all over Germany that could not be produced
in England, both because the censor would refuse to pass them and because public opinion would
not tolerate them, unless, to be sure, they were played in their own tongues. It is most difficult
to explain our attitude to Germans who have been in London, because they know what vulgar and
vicious farces and musical comedies pass muster with us, and indeed are extremely popular.
It is only when a play touches the deeps of life and shows signs of thought and of poetry that
we take fright, and by the lips of our chosen official cry, "This will never do." Tolstoy,
Ibsen, Gorky, Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, Hauptmann, and Otto Ernst are the modern names I find
on one week's programme cut from a Berlin paper late in spring when the theatrical season was
nearly over. Besides plays by these authors, one of the State theatres announced tragedies
by Goethe, Schiller, and a comedy by Molière. The Merchant of Venice was being played at one
theatre and A Midsummer Night's Dream at another; there were farces and light operas for some
people, and Wagner, Gluck, and Beethoven at the Royal Opera House for others. The theatre in
Germany is a part of national life and of national education, and it is largely supported by
the State; so that even in small towns you get good music and acting. The Meiningen players
are celebrated all over the world, and everyone who has read Goethe's Life will remember how
actively and constantly he was interested in the Weimar stage. At a Stadt-Theater in a small
town two or three operas are given every week, and two or three plays. Most people subscribe
for seats once or twice a week all through the winter, and they go between coffee and supper
in their ordinary clothes. Even in Berlin women do not wear full dress at any theatre. In the
little towns you may any evening meet or join the leisurely stream of playgoers, and if you
enter the theatre with them you will find that the women leave their hats with an attendant.
You are in no danger in Germany of having the whole stage hidden from you by flowers and feathers.

Shakespeare is as much played as Goethe and Schiller, and it is most interesting and yet most
disappointing to hear the poetry you know line upon line spoken in a foreign tongue. Germans
say that their translation is more beautiful and satisfying than the original English; but
I actually knew a German who kept Bayard Taylor's Faust by his bedside because he preferred
it to Goethe's. I think there is something the matter with people who prefer translated to
original poetry, but I will leave a critic of standing to explain what ails them. I have never
met a German who would admit that Shakespeare was an Englishman. They say that his birth at
Stratford-on-Avon was a little accident, and that he belongs to the world. They say this out
of politeness, because what they really believe is that he belongs to Germany, and that as
a matter of fact Byron is the only great poet England has ever had. I am not joking. I am not
even exaggerating. This is the real opinion of the German man in the street, and it is taught
in lessons in literature. An English girl went to one of the best-known teachers in Berlin
for lessons in German, and found, as she found elsewhere, that the talk incessantly turned
on the crimes of England and the inferiority of England.

"You have had two great names," said the teacher,--"two and no more. That is, if one can in
any sense of the word call Shakespeare an English name ... Shakespeare and Byron, ... then
you have finished. You have never had anyone else, and Shakespeare has always belonged more
to us than to you."

The English girl gasped, for she knew something of her own literature.

"But have you never heard about Chaucer," she asked, "or of the Elizabethans, or of Milton,
Keats, Shelley, Wordsworth...?"

"Reden Sie nicht, reden Sie nicht!" cried the teacher,--"I never allow my pupils to argue with
me. Shakespeare and Byron ... no, Byron only, ... then England has done."

You still find Byron in every German household where English is read at all, and no one seems
to have found out what fustian most of his poetry really was. Ruskin and Oscar Wilde are the
two popular modern authors, and the novel-reading public chooses, so several booksellers assured
me, Marion Crawford and Mrs. Croker. I could not hear a word anywhere of Stevenson or Rudyard
Kipling, but I did come across one person who had enjoyed Richard Feverel.

"Your English novels are rather better than they used to be, are they not?" said a lady to
me in good faith, and I found it a difficult question to answer, because I had always believed
that we had a long roll of great novelists; but then, I had also thought that England had a
few poets.

The most popular German novels are mostly translated into English, and all German novels of
importance are reviewed in our papers. So English people who read German know what a strong
reaction there is against the moonshine of fifty years ago. The novels most in vogue exhibit
the same coarse, but often thoughtful and impressive, realism that prevails on the stage and
in the conversation and conduct of some sets of people in the big cities. The Tagebuch einer
Verlorenen has sold 75,000 copies, and it is the story of a German Kamelliendame compared with
whom Dumas' lady is moonshine. It is a haunting picture of a woman sinning against the moral
and social law, and no one with the least sense or judgment could put it on the low level of
certain English novels that sell because they are offensive, and for no other reason in the
world. Aus guter Familie, by Gabrielle Reuter, is another remarkable novel, and I believe it
has never been translated into English. It presents the poignant tragedy of a woman's life
suffocated by the social conditions obtaining in a small German town where a woman has no hope
but marriage, and if she is poor no chance of marriage. It is one of the most sincere books
I ever read. Das Tägliche Brot, Klara Viebig's story of servant-life in Berlin, is another
typical novel of the present day, and that has been translated for those amongst us who do
not read German. I choose these three novels for mention because they are written by women,
and because they are brilliant examples of the modern tone amongst women. If you want the traditional
German qualities of sentiment, poetry, formlessness, and dreamy childlike charm, you must read
novels written by men.

I have said very little about music in Germany, because we all know and admit that it reaches
heights there no other nation can approach. An Englishman writing about Germany lately says
that you often hear very bad music there, but I think his experience must have been exceptional
and unfortunate. I am sure that Germans do not tolerate the vapid dreary drawing-room songs
we listen to complacently in this country; for in England people often have beautiful voices
without any musical understanding, or technical facility without charm. I suppose such cases
must occur amongst Germans too, and in the end one speaks of a foreign nation partly from personal
experience, which must be narrow, and partly from hearsay. I have met Germans who were not
musical, but I have never met any who were pleased with downright bad music. On the whole,
it is the art they understand best, the one in which their instinctive taste is sure and good.
You would not find that the Byron amongst composers, whoever he may be, was the one they set
up for worship. Nor do you find the street of a German city or suburb infested with barrel-organs.
There is some kind of low dancing saloon or café chantant called a Tingl-Tangl where I imagine
they have organs and gramaphones and suchlike horrors, but then unless you chance to pass their
open windows you need not endure their strains. In England, even if we are fond of music, and
therefore sensitive to jarring sounds and maudlin melodies, yet in the street we cannot escape
the barrel-organ nor in the house the drawing-room songs. As if these were not enough, we now
invite each other to listen to the pianotist and the pianola.

"I will explain my country to you," said the artist one day when I had expressed myself puzzled
by the curious gaps in German taste, and even in German knowledge; by their enthusiasm for
the second rate in poetry and literature, and by their amazing uncertain mixture of information
and blank complacent ignorance. For when an Englishman says "Goethe! Schiller!--Was is das?"
you are not surprised. It is just what you expect of an Englishman, and for all that he may
know how to build bridges and keep his temper in games and argument. But when a German teacher
of literature tells you Byron is the only English poet, and when the whole nation neglects
some of our big men but runs wild over certain little ones, you listen eagerly for any explanation
forthcoming. "We have Wissen," said the artist, "we have Kunst; but we have no Kultur."

I did not recover from the shock he gave me till the evening, when I saw the professor of philosophy
and æsthetics.

"The artist says that you have no Kultur," I told him; for I wanted to see how he received a shock.

"The artist speaks the truth," said the professor calmly. I have never met anyone more civilised
and scholarly then he was himself; and I set a high value on his opinion.

"What is Kultur?" I asked.

"One result of it is a fine discrimination," he replied, "a fine discrimination in art, in
conduct, and in manner."

"Are you not the most intellectual people in the world?" I said reproachfully.

He seemed to think that had nothing to do with it.

"Are you still worrying your head about Kultur?" said the artist next time I saw him. "Then
I will explain a little more to you. I, as you know, am extremely anti-Semite."

"I am sure that is not a proof of Kultur," I said hurriedly.

"It is not a proof of anything. It is a result. Nevertheless I perceive that if it were not
for the Jews there would be neither art nor literature in Germany. They create, they appreciate,
they support, and although we affect to despise them we invariably follow them like sheep.
What they admire we admire; what they discover we see to be good. But ... I told you I was
anti-Semite, ... though they have most of the brains in the country, they have little Kultur.
One of us who is as stupid as an ox, ... most of us are as stupid as oxen, ... may have more,
... but because he is stupid he cannot impose his opinion on the multitude."

"Do you mean that the Jews set the fashion in art and literature, and that they sometimes set
a bad one?" I asked

"That is exactly what I mean."

