     When Mr. Johnson and I arrived at Inveraray after our
     expedition to the Hebrides, and there for the first time
     after many days renewed our enjoyment of the luxuries of
     civilised life, one of the most elegant that I could wish to
     find was lying for me, a letter from Mr. Garrick. That I have not
     thanked you for it long ere now is one of those strange facts
     for which it is so difficult to account, that I shall not
     attempt it. The Idler has strongly expressed many of the
     wonderful effects of the vis inertiæ of the human mind. But
     it is hardly credible that a man should have the warmest
     regard for his friend, a constant desire to show it, and a
     keen ambition for a frequent epistolary intercourse with him,
     and yet should let months roll on without having resolution,
     or activity, or power, or whatever it be, to write a few
     lines. A man in such a situation is somewhat like Tantalus
     reversed. He recedes, he knows not how, from what he loves,
     which is full as provoking as when what he loves recedes from
     him. That my complaint is not a peculiar fancy, but deep in
     human nature, I appeal to the authority of St. Paul, who
     though he had not been exalted to the dignity of an apostle,
     would have stood high in fame as a philosopher and orator,
     "What I would that do I not." You need be under no concern
     as to your debt to me for the book which I purchased for you.
     It was long ago discharged; for believe me, I intended the
     book as a present. Or if you rather chuse that it should be
     held as an exchange with the epitaphs which you sent me, I
     have no objection.
     Dr. Young has a fine thought to this purpose, that every
     friend who goes before us to the other side of the river of
     death, makes the passage to us the easier. Were our club all
     removed to a future world but one or two, they, one should
     think, would incline to follow. By all means let me be on your
     list of subscribers to Mr. Morrell's Prometheus. You have
     enlivened the town, I see, with a musical piece. The prologue
     is admirably fancied arripere populum tributim; though, to
     be sure, Foote's remark applies to it, that your prologues {329}
     have a culinary turn, and that therefore the motto to your
     collection of them should be, Animus jamdudum in Patinis. A
     player upon words might answer him, "Any Patinis rather than
     your Piety in Pattens." I wonder the wags have not been
     quoting upon you, "Whose erudition is a Christmas tale." I
     hope Mr. Johnson has given you an entertaining account of his
     Northern Tour. He is certainly to favour the world with some
     of his remarks. Pray do not fail to quicken him by word as I
     do by letter. Posterity will be the more obliged to his
     friends the more that they can prevail with him to write. With
     best compliments to Mrs. Garrick, and hoping that you will not
     punish me by being long silent, I remain faithfully yours,

     JAMES BOSWELL.

    To David Garrick, Esq.,
    Adelphi, London.

W. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

White Roses.--In an old newspaper, The Weekly Journal, or British Gazetteer, of Saturday, June
15, 1723, I find the following paragraph:

     "Monday being the anniversary of the White Roses, some persons
     who had a mind to boast that they had bid defiance to the
     government, put them on early in the morning; but the mob not
     liking such doings, gathered about them, and demolished the
     wearers; which so terrified the crew, that not one of them
     afterwards would touch a white rose."

Can you, or any of your correspondents, explain this curious allusion? Is it to the emblem
of the House of York, or the badge of the Pretender?

E. G. B.

Fifeshire Pronunciation.--I have observed, in various parts of Fifeshire, a singular peculiarity
in the pronunciation of certain words, of which the following are specimens:

                                    Pronounced

    Wrong,                          Vrang.
    Wright,                         Vricht (gut.).
    Wretch,                         Vretch.
    Write, v. a.                  Vrite.
    Write, or writing, s.         Vreat.

This strange mode is not altogether confined to the most illiterate portion of the people.
My query is, Does this peculiarity obtain in any other portion of Scotland?

A. R. X.

Paisley.

Original Letter.--The following letter, written by the French general at Guadaloupe, when it
was taken in 1810, to his conqueror, is an exquisite specimen of something more than that national
politeness which does not desert a Frenchman even in misfortune. I possess the original:

                         Au quartier général du Parc,
                            le 6 Février, 1810.

      A son Excellence

    Le Général Beckwith, Commandant en chef les forces de sa
    Majesté Britannique aux isles du Vent.

      Monsieur le Général,

    J'ai été prévenu que Votre Excellence se proposait de venir au
    Parc demain dans la matinée. J'ose espérer qu'elle voudra bien
    me faire l'honneur d'accepter le diner que lui offre un Général
    malheureux et vaincu, mais qu'il présente de tout coeur.

EDWARD FOSS.

Erroneous Forms of Speech.--Since you allow your correspondents to correct such words as teetotal,
I hope you will allow me to call the attention of your agricultural readers to the corruption
in the word mangold, as they now write it. The word is in German mangel wurzel, root of scarcity.
It is wrong to use even such a name as this, in my opinion, while we have the English name
beet, which has the additional advantage of being derived from the botanical name Beta. But
if a new name must be used, let it, at any rate, be the pure German mangel, and not the mongrel
mangold. Indeed, those who spell the word in the latter way, ought in common consistency to
write reddishes, sparrowgrass, and cowcumbers for radishes, asparagus, and cucumbers.

E. G. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

EUSTACHE DE SAINT PIERRE.

(Vol. vii., p. 10.)

MR. KING'S inquiry reminds me of two Queries on the same subject which I sent you as far back
as the end of 1851, or beginning of 1852. Those Queries have not appeared in "N. & Q.," and
I was led to suppose, either that you had laid them aside for some future occasion, or had
found something objectionable in the form in which they were presented. The following is a
literal copy.

     "There are two circumstances connected with this event (the
     surrender of Calais), respecting which I am desirous of
     obtaining information. The first has reference to the
     individuals who offered themselves as victims to appease the
     exasperation of Edward III., after the obstinate siege of {330}
     that town in 1347. They are represented as six of the
     principal citizens; Eustache de Saint Pierre was at their
     head, and the names of three others have come down to us, as
     Jean d'Aire, Jacques de Wissant, and Pierre de Wissant. Who
     were the other two?

     "The second point relates to the character of that occurrence.
     Some historians are of opinion that the devotedness of Saint
     Pierre and his associates was prompted by the most exalted
     sentiments of patriotism; while others assert that it was all
     a 'sham,' that Saint-Pierre was secretly attached to the cause
     of the English monarch, and that he was subsequently employed
     by him in some confidential negociations. To which of these
     opinions should the historical inquirer give his assent?"

