MR. FORTESCUE

An Andean Romance

by

WILLIAM WESTALL

CHAPTER I.

MATCHING GREEN.

A quaint old Essex village of single-storied cottages, some ivy mantled, with dormer windows,
thatched roofs, and miniature gardens, strewed with picturesque irregularity round as fine
a green as you will find in the county. Its normal condition is rustic peace and sleepy beatitude;
and it pursues the even tenor of its way undisturbed by anything more exciting than a meeting
of the vestry, the parish dinner, the advent of a new curate, or the exit of one of the fathers
of the hamlet.

But this morning the place is all agog, and so transformed that it hardly knows itself. The
entire population, from the oldest gaffer to the last-born baby, is out-of-doors; the two inns
are thronged with guests, and the road is lined with all sorts and conditions of carriages,
from the four-in-hand of the wealthy swell to the donkey-cart of the local coster-monger. From
every point of the compass are trooping horsemen, some resplendent in scarlet coats, their
nether limbs clothed in immaculate white breeches and shining top-boots, others in pan hats
and brown leggings; and all in high spirits and eager for the fray; for to-day, according to
old custom, the Essex Hunt hold the first regular meet of the season on Matching's matchless Green.

The master is already to the fore, and now comes Tom Cuffe, the huntsman, followed by his hounds,
whose sleek skins and bright coats show that they are "fit to go," and whose eager looks bode
ill to the long-tailed denizens of copse and covert.

It still wants a few minutes to eleven, and the interval is occupied in the interchange of
greetings between old companions of the chase, in desultory talk about horses and hounds; and
while some of the older votaries of Diana fight their battles o'er again, and describe thrice-told
historic runs, which grow longer with every repetition, others discuss the prospects of the
coming season, and indulge in hopes of which, let us hope, neither Jack Frost, bad scent, nor
accident by flood or field will mar the fruition.

Nearly all are talking, for there is a feeling of camaraderie in the hunting-field which dispenses
with the formality of introductions, its frequenters sometimes becoming familiar friends before
they have learned each other's names.

Yet there are exceptions; and one cavalier in particular appears to hold himself aloof, neither
speaking to his neighbors nor mixing in the throng. As he does not look like a "sulky swell,"
rendered taciturn by an overweening sense of his own importance, he is probably either a new
resident in the county or a "stranger from a distance"--which, none whom I ask seems to know.
There is something about this man that especially attracts my attention; and not mine alone,
for I perceive that he is being curiously regarded by several of my neighbors. His get-up is
faultless, and he sits with the easy grace of a practiced horseman an animal of exceptional
symmetry and strength. His well-knit figure is slim and almost youthful, and he holds himself
as erect on his saddle as a dragoon on parade. But his closely cropped hair is turning gray,
and his face that of a man far advanced in the fifties, if not past sixty. And a striking face
it is--long and oval, with a straight nose and fine nostrils, a broad forehead, and a firm,
resolute mouth. His complexion, though it bears traces of age, is clear, healthy, and deeply
bronzed. Save for a heavy gray mustache, he is clean shaved; his dark, keenly observant eyes
are overshadowed by black and all but straight brows, terminating in two little tufts, which
give his countenance a strange and, as some might think, an almost sardonic expression. Altogether,
it strikes me as being the face of a cynical yet not ill-natured or malicious Mephistopheles.

Behind him are two grooms in livery, nearly as well mounted as himself, and, greatly to my
surprise, he is presently joined by Jim Rawlings, who last season held the post of first whipper-in.

What manner of man is this who brings out four horses on the same day, and what does he want
with them all? Such horses, too! There is not one of them that has not the look of a two hundred-guinea
hunter.

I was about to put the question to Keyworth, the hunt secretary, who had just come within speaking
distance, and was likely to know if anybody did, when the master gave the signal for a move,
and huntsman and hounds, followed by the entire field, went off at a sharp trot.

We had a rather long ride to covert, but a quick find, a fox being viewed away almost as soon
as the hounds began to draw. It was a fast thing while it lasted, but, unfortunately, it did
not last long; for, after a twenty minutes' gallop, the hounds threw up their heads, and cast
as Cuffe might, he was unable to recover the line.

The country we had gone over was difficult and dangerous, full of blind fences and yawning
ditches, deep enough and wide enough to swallow up any horse and his rider who might fail to
clear them. Fortunately, however, I escaped disaster, and for the greater part of the run I
was close to the gentleman with the Mephistophelian face and Tom Rawlings, who acted as his
pilot. Tom rode well, of course--it was his business--but no better than his master, whose
horse, besides being a big jumper, was as clever as a cat, flying the ditches like a bird,
and clearing the blindest fences without making a single mistake.

After the first run we drew two coverts blank, but eventually found a second fox, which gave
us a slow hunting run of about an hour, interrupted by several checks, and saved his brush
by taking refuge in an unstopped earth.

By this time it was nearly three o'clock, and being a long way from home, and thinking no more
good would be done, I deemed it expedient to leave off. I went away as Mephistopheles and his
man were mounting their second horses, which had just been brought up by the two grooms in livery.

My way lay by Matching Green, and as I stopped at the village inn to refresh my horse with
a pail of gruel and myself with a glass of ale, who should come up but old Tawney, Tom Cuffe's
second horseman! Besides being an adept at his calling, familiar with every cross-road and
almost every field in the county, he knew nearly as well as a hunted fox himself which way
the creature meant to run. Tawney was a great gossip, and quite a mine of curious information
about things equine and human--especially about things equine. Here was a chance not to be
neglected of learning something about Mephistopheles; so after warming Tawney's heart and opening
his lips with a glass of hot whiskey punch, I began:

"You've got a new first whip, I see."

"Yes, sir, name of Cobbe--Paul Cobbe. He comes from the Berkshire country, he do, sir."

"But how is it that Rawlings has left? and who is that gentleman he was with to-day?"

"What! haven't you heard!" exclaimed Tawney, as surprised at my ignorance as if I had asked
him the name of the reigning sovereign.

"I have not heard, which, seeing that I spent the greater part of the summer at sea and returned
only the other day, is perhaps not greatly to be wondered at."

"Well, the gentleman as Rawlings has gone to and as he was with to-day is Mr. Fortescue; him
as has taken Kingscote."

Kingscote was a country-house of no extraordinary size, but with so large a park and gardens,
conservatories and stables so extensive as to render its keeping up very costly; and the owner
or mortgagee, I know not which, had for several years been vainly trying to let it at a nominal
rent.

"He must be rich, then. Kingscote will want a lot of keeping up."

"Rich is not the word, sir. He has more money than he knows what to do with. Why, he has twenty
horses now, and is building loose-boxes for ten more, and he won't look at one under a hundred
pounds. Rawlings has got a fine place, he has that."

"I am surprised he should have left the kennels, though. He loses his chance of ever becoming
huntsman."

"He is as good as that now, sir. He had a present of fifty pounds to start with, gets as many
shillings a week and all found, and has the entire management of the stables, and with a gentleman
like Mr. Fortescue there'll be some nice pickings."

"Very likely. But why does Mr. Fortescue want a pilot? He rides well, and his horses seem to
know their business."

"He won't have any as doesn't. Yes, he rides uncommon well for an aged man, does Mr. Fortescue.
I suppose he wants somebody to show him the way and keep him from getting ridden over. It isn't
nice to get ridden over when you're getting into years."

"It isn't nice whether you are getting into years or not. But you cannot call Mr. Fortescue
an old man."

"You cannot call him a young 'un. He has a good many gray hairs, and them puckers under his
eyes hasn't come in a day. But he has a young heart, I will say that for him. Did you see how
he did that 'double' as pounded half the field?"

"Yes, it was a very sporting jump. But who is Mr. Fortescue, and where does he come from?"

"That is what nobody seems to know. Mr. Keyworth--he was at the kennels only yesterday--asked
me the very same question. He thought Jim Rawlings might ha' told me something. But bless you,
Jim knows no more than anybody else. All as he can tell is as Mr. Fortescue sometimes goes
to London, that he is uncommon fond of hosses, and either rides or drives tandem nearly every
day, and has ordered a slap-up four-in-hand drag. And he has got a 'boratory and no end o'
chemicals and stuff, and electric machines, and all sorts o' gimcracks."

"Is there a Mrs. Fortescue?"

"Not as I knows on. There is not a woman in the house, except servants."

"Who looks after things, then?"

"Well, there's a housekeeper. But the head bottle-washer is a chap they call major-domo--a
German he is. He looks after everything, and an uncommon sharp domo he is, too, Jim says. Nobody
can do him a penny piece. And then there is Mr. Fortescue's body-servant; he's a dark man,
with a big scar on one cheek, and rings in his ears. They call him Rumun."

"Nonsense! There's no such name as Rumun."

"That's what I told Jim. He said it was a rum 'un, but his name was Rumun, and no mistake."

"Dark, and rings in his ears! The man is probably a Spaniard. You mean Ramon."

"No, I don't; I mean Rumun," returned Tawney, doggedly. "I thought it was an uncommon rum name,
and I asked Jim twice--he calls at the kennels sometimes--I asked him twice, and he said he
was cock sure it was Rumun."

"Rumun let it be then. Altogether, this Mr. Fortescue seems to be rather a mysterious personage."

"You are right there, Mr. Bacon, he is. I only wish I was half as mysterious. Why, he must
be worth thousands upon thousands. And he spends his money like a gentleman, he does--thinks
less of a sovereign than you think of a bob. He sent Mr. Keyworth a hundred pounds for his
hunt subscription, and said if they were any ways short at the end of the season they had only
to tell him and he would send as much more."

Having now got all the information out of Tawney he was able to give me, I stood him another
whiskey, and after lighting a cigar I mounted my horse and jogged slowly homeward, thinking
much about Mr. Fortescue, and wondering who he could be. The study of physiognomy is one of
my fads, and his face had deeply impressed me; in great wealth, moreover, there is always something
that strikes the imagination, and this man was evidently very rich, and the mystery that surrounded
him piqued my curiosity.

CHAPTER II.

TICKLE-ME-QUICK.

Being naturally of a retiring disposition, and in no sense the hero of the tale which I am
about to tell, I shall say no more concerning myself than is absolutely necessary. At the same
time, it is essential to a right comprehension of what follows that I say something about myself,
and better that I should say it now than interrupt the even flow of my narrative later on.

My name is Geoffrey Bacon, and I have reason to believe that I was born at a place in Essex
called (appropriately enough) Dedham. My family is one of the oldest in the county, and (of
course) highly respectable; but as the question is often put to me by friends, and will naturally
suggest itself to my readers, I may as well observe, once for all, that I am not a descendent
of the Lord Keeper Bacon, albeit, if he had had any children, I have no doubt I should have been.

My poor mother died in giving me birth; my father followed her when I was ten years old, leaving
me with his blessing (nothing else), to the care of his aunt, Miss Ophelia Bacon, by whom I
was brought up and educated. She was very good to me, but though I was far from being intentionally
ungrateful, I fear that I did not repay her goodness as it deserved. The dear old lady had
made up her mind that I should be a doctor, and though I would rather have been a farmer or
a country gentleman (the latter for choice), I made no objection; and so long as I remained
at school she had no reason to complain of my conduct. I satisfied my masters and passed my
preliminary examination creditably and without difficulty, to my aunt's great delight. She
protested that she was proud of me, and rewarded my diligence and cleverness with a five-pound
note. But after I became a student at Guy's I gave her much trouble, and got myself into some
sad scrapes. I spent her present, and something more, in hiring mounts, for I was passionately
fond of riding, especially to hounds, and ran into debt with a neighboring livery-stable keeper
to the tune of twenty pounds. I would sometimes borrow the greengrocer's pony, for I was not
particular what I rode, so long as it had four legs. When I could obtain a mount neither for
love nor on credit, I went after the harriers on foot. The result, as touching my health and
growth, was all that could be desired. As touching my studies, however, it was less satisfactory.
I was spun twice, both in my anatomy and physiology. Miss Ophelia, though sorely grieved, was
very indulgent, and had she lived, I am afraid that I should never have got my diploma. But
when I was twenty-one and she seventy-five, my dear aunt died, leaving me all her property
(which made an income of about four hundred a year), with the proviso that unless, within three
years of her death, I obtained the double qualification, the whole of her estate was to pass
to Guy's Hospital. In the mean time the trustees were empowered to make me an allowance of
two guineas a week and defray all my hospital expenses.

On this, partly because I was loath to lose so goodly a heritage, partly, I hope, from worthier
motives, I buckled-to in real earnest, and before I was four-and-twenty I could write after
my name the much coveted capitals M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. All this while I had not once crossed
a horse or looked at a hound, yet the ruling passion was still strong, and being very much
of Mr. Jorrock's opinion that all time not spent in hunting is lost, I resolved, before "settling
down" or taking up any position which might be incompatible with indulgence in my favorite
amusement, to devote a few years of my life to fox-hunting. At twenty-four a man does not give
much thought to the future--at any rate I did not.

The next question was how to hunt three or four days a week on four hundred a year, for though
I was quite willing to spend my income, I was resolved not to touch my capital. To begin with,
I sold my aunt's cottage and furniture and took a couple of rooms for the winter at Red Chimneys,
a roomy farm-house in the neighborhood of Treydon. Then, acting on the great principle of co-operation,
I joined at horse-keeping with my good friend and old school-fellow, Bertie Alston, a London
solicitor. Being both of us light-weights, we could mount ourselves cheaply; the average cost
of our stud of four horses did not exceed forty pounds apiece. Moreover, when opportunities
offered, we did not disdain to turn an honest penny by buying an animal cheap and selling him
dear, and as I looked after things myself, bought my own forage, and saw that I had full measure,
our stable expenses were kept within moderate limits. Except when the weather was bad, or a
horse hors de combat, I generally contrived to get four days' hunting a week--three with the
fox-hounds and one with Mr. Vigne's harriers--for, owing to his professional engagements, Alston
could not go out as often as I did. But as I took all the trouble and responsibility, it was
only fair that I should have the lion's share of the riding.

At the end of the season we either sold the horses off or turned them into a straw-yard, and
I went to sea as ship's surgeon. In this capacity I made voyages to Australia, to the Cape,
and to the West Indies; and the summer before I first saw Mr. Fortescue I had been to the Arctic
Ocean in a whaler. True, the pay did not amount to much, but it found me in pocket-money and
clothes, and I saved my keep.

Having now, as I hope, done with digressions and placed myself en rapport with my readers,
I will return to the principal personage of my story.

The next time I met Mr. Fortescue was at Harlow Bush. He was quite as well mounted as before,
and accompanied, as usual, by Rawlings and two grooms with their second horses. On this occasion
Mr. Fortescue did not hold himself nearly so much aloof as he had done at Matching Green, perhaps
because he was more noticed; and he was doubtless more noticed because the fame of his wealth
and the lavish use he made of it were becoming more widely known. The master gave him a friendly
nod and a gracious smile, and expressed a hope that we should have good sport; the secretary
engaged him in a lively conversation; the hunt servants touched their caps to him with profound
respect, and he received greetings from most of the swells.

We drew Latton, found in a few minutes, and had a "real good thing," a grand run of nearly
two hours, with only one or two trifling checks, which, as I am not writing a hunting story,
I need not describe any further than to remark that we had plenty of fencing, a good deal of
hard galloping, a kill in the open, and that of the sixty or seventy who were present at the
start only about a score were up at the finish. Among the fortunate few were Mr. Fortescue
and his pilot. During the latter part of the run we rode side by side, and pulled up at the
same instant, just as the fox was rolled over.

"A very fine run," I took the liberty to observe, as I stepped from my saddle and slackened
my horse's girths. "It will be a long time before we have a better."

"Two hours and two minutes," shouted the secretary, looking at his watch, "and straight. We
are in the heart of the Puckeridge country."

"Yes," said Mr. Fortescue, quietly, "it was a very enjoyable run. You like hunting, I think?"

"Like it! I should rather think I do. I regard fox-hunting as the very prince of sports. It
is manly, health-giving, and exhilarating. There is no sport in which so many participate and
so heartily enjoy. We enjoy it, the horses enjoy it, and the hounds enjoy it."

"How about the fox?"

"Oh, the fox! Well, the fox is allowed to exist on condition of being occasionally hunted.
If there were no hunting there would be no foxes. On the whole, I regard him as a fortunate
and rather pampered individual; and I have even heard it said that he rather likes being hunted
than otherwise."

"As for the general question, I dare say you are right. But I don't think the fox likes it
much. It once happened to me to be hunted, and I know I did not like it."

This was rather startling, and had Mr. Fortescue spoken less gravely and not been so obviously
in earnest, I should have thought he was joking.

"You don't mean--Was it a paper-chase?" I said, rather foolishly.

"No; it was not a paper-chase," he answered, grimly. "There were no paper-chases in my time.
I mean that I was once hunted, just as we have been hunting that fox."

"With a pack of hounds?"

"Yes, with a pack of hounds."

I was about to ask what sort of a chase it was, and how and where he was hunted, when Cuffe
came up, and, on behalf of the master, offered Mr. Fortescue the brush.

"Thank you," said Mr. Fortescue, taking the brush and handing it to Rawlings. "Here is something
for you"--tipping the huntsman a sovereign, which he put in his pocket with a "Thank you kindly,
sir," and a gratified smile.

And then flasks were uncorked, sandwich-cases opened, cigars lighted, and the conversation
becoming general, I had no other opportunity--at that time--of making further inquiry of Mr.
Fortescue touching the singular episode in his career which he had just mentioned. A few minutes
later a move was made for our own country, and as we were jogging along I found myself near
Jim Rawlings.

"That's a fresh hoss you've got, I think, sir," he said.

"Yes, I have ridden him two or three times with the harriers; but this is the first time I
have had him out with fox-hounds."

"He carried you very well in the run, sir."

"You are quite right; he did. Very well."

"Does he lay hold on you at all, Mr. Bacon?"

"Not a bit."

"Light in the mouth, a clever jumper, and a free goer."

"All three."

"Yes, he's the right sort, he is, sir; and if ever you feel disposed to sell him, I could,
may be, find you a customer."

Accepting this as a delicate intimation that Mr. Fortescue had taken a fancy to the horse and
would like to buy him, I told Jim that I was quite willing to sell at a fair price.

"And what might you consider a fair price, if it is a fair question?" asked the man.

"A hundred guineas," I answered; for, as I knew that Mr. Fortescue would not "look at a horse,"
as Tawney put it, under that figure, it would have been useless to ask less.

"Very well, sir. I will speak to my master, and let you know."

Ranger, as I called the horse, was a purchase of Alston's. Liking his looks (though Bertie
was really a very indifferent judge), he had bought him out of a hansom-cab for forty pounds,
and after a little "schooling," the creature took to jumping as naturally as a duck takes to
water. Sixty pounds may seem rather an unconscionable profit, but considering that Ranger was
quite sound and up to weight, I don't think a hundred guineas was too much. A dealer would
have asked a hundred and fifty.

At any rate, Mr. Fortescue did not think it too much, for Rawlings presently brought me word
that his master would take the horse at the price I had named, if I could warrant him sound.

"In that case it is a bargain," I said, "for I can warrant him sound."

"All right, sir. I'll send one of the grooms over to your place for him to-morrow."

Shortly afterward I fell in with Keyworth, and as a matter of course we talked about Mr. Fortescue.

"Do you know anything about him?" I asked.

"Not much. I believe he is rich--and respectable."

"That is pretty evident, I think."

"I am not sure. A man who spends a good deal of money is presumably rich; but it by no means
follows that he is respectable. There are such people in the world as successful rogues and
wealthy swindlers. Not that I think Mr. Fortescue is either one or the other. I learned, from
the check he sent me for his subscription, who his bankers are, and through a friend of mine,
who is intimate with one of the directors, I got a confidential report about him. It does not
amount to much; but it is satisfactory so far as it goes. They say he is a man of large fortune,
and, as they believe, highly respectable."

"Is that all?"

"All there was in the report. But Tomlinson--that's my friend--has heard that he has spent
the greater part of his life abroad, and that he made his money in South America."

The mention of South America interested me, for I had made voyages both to Rio de Janeiro and
several places on the Spanish Main.

"South America is rather vague," I observed. "You might almost as well say 'Southern Asia.'
Have you any idea in what part of it?"

"Not the least. I have told you all I know. I should be glad to know more; but for the present
it is quite enough for my purpose. I intend to call upon Mr. Fortescue."

It is hardly necessary to say that I had no such intention, for having neither a "position
in the county," as the phrase goes, a house of my own, nor any official connection with the
hunt, a call from me would probably have been regarded, and rightly so, as a piece of presumption.
As it happened, however, I not only called on Mr. Fortescue before the secretary, but became
his guest, greatly to my surprise, and, I have no doubt, to his, although he was the indirect
cause; for had he not bought Ranger, it is very unlikely that I should have become an inmate
of his house.

It came about in this way. Bertie was so pleased with the result of his first speculation in
horseflesh (though so far as he was concerned it was a pure fluke) that he must needs make
another. If he had picked up a second cab-horse at thirty or forty pounds he could not have
gone far wrong; but instead of that he must needs go to Tattersall's and give nearly fifty
for a blood mare rejoicing in the name of "Tickle-me-Quick," described as being "the property
of a gentleman," and said to have won several country steeple-chases.

The moment I set eyes on the beast I saw she was a screw, "and vicious at that," as an American
would have said. But as she had been bought (without warranty) and paid for, I had to make
the best of her. Within an hour of the mare's arrival at Red Chimneys, I was on her back, trying
her paces. She galloped well and jumped splendidly, but I feared from her ways that she would
be hot with hounds, and perhaps, kick in a crowd, one of the worst faults that a hunter can
possess.

On the next non-hunting day I took Tickle-me-Quick out for a long ride in the country, to see
how she shaped as a hack. I little thought, as we set off, that it would prove to be her last
journey, and one of the most memorable events of my life.

For a while all went well. The mare wanted riding, yet she behaved no worse than I expected,
although from the way she laid her ears back and the angry tossing of her head when I made
her feel the bit, she was clearly not in the best of tempers. But I kept her going; and an
hour after leaving Red Chimneys we turned into a narrow deep lane between high banks, which
led to Kingscote entering the road on the west side of the park at right angles, and very near
Mr. Fortescue's lodge-gates.

In the field to my right several colts were grazing, and when they caught sight of Tickle-me-Quick
trotting up the lane they took it into their heads to have an impromptu race among themselves.
Neighing loudly, they set off at full gallop. Without asking my leave, Tickle-me-Quick followed
suit. I tried to stop her. I might as well have tried to stop an avalanche. So, making a virtue
of necessity, I let her go, thinking that before she reached the top of the lane she would
have had quite enough, and I should be able to pull her up without difficulty.

The colts are soon left behind; but we can hear them galloping behind us, and on goes the mare
like the wind. I can now see the end of the lane, and as the great park wall, twelve feet high,
looms in sight, the horrible thought flashes on my mind that unless I pull her up we shall
both be dashed to pieces; for to turn a sharp corner at the speed we are going is quite out
of the question.

I make another effort, sawing the mare's mouth till it bleeds, and tightening the reins till
they are fit to break.

All in vain; she puts her head down and gallops on, if possible more madly than before. Still
larger looms that terrible wall; death stares me in the face, and for the first time in my
life I undergo the intense agony of mortal terror.

We are now at the end of the lane. There is one chance only, and that the most desperate, of
saving my life. I slip my feet from the stirrups, and when Tickle-me-Quick is within two or
three strides of the wall, I drop the reins and throw myself from her back. Then all is darkness.

CHAPTER III.

MR. FORTESCUE'S PROPOSAL.

"Where am I?"

I feel as if I were in a strait-jacket. One of my arms is immovable, my head is bandaged, and
when I try to turn I suffer excruciating pain.

"Where am I?"

"Oh, you have wakened up!" says somebody with a foreign accent, and a dark face bends over
me. The light is dim and my sight weak, and but for his grizzled mustache I might have taken
the speaker for a woman, his ears being adorned with large gold rings.

"Where are you? You are in the house of Señor Fortescue."

"And the mare?"

"The mare broke her wicked head against the park wall, and she has gone to the kennels to be
eaten by the dogs."

"Already? How long is it since?"

"It was the day before yesterday zat it happened."

"God bless me! I must have been insensible ever since. That means concussion of the brain.
Am I much damaged otherwise, do you know?"

"Pretty well. Your left shoulder is dislocated, one of your fingers and two of your ribs broken,
and one of your ankles severely contused. But it might have been worse. If you had not thrown
yourself from your horse, as you did, you would just now be in a coffin instead of in this
comfortable bed."

"Somebody saw me, then?"

"Yes, the lodge-keeper. He thought you were dead, and came up and told us; and we brought you
here on a stretcher, and the Señor Coronel sent for a doctor--"

"The Señor Coronel! Do you mean Mr. Fortescue?"

"Yes, sir, I mean Mr. Fortescue."

"Then you are Ramon?"

"Hijo de Dios! You know my name."

"Yes, you are Mr. Fortescue's body-servant."

"Caramba! Somebody must have told you."

"You might have made a worse guess, Señor Ramon. Will you please tell Mr. Fortescue that I
thank him with all my heart for his great kindness, and that I will not trespass on it more
than I can possibly help. As soon as I can be moved I shall go to my own place."

"That will not be for a long time, and I do not think the Señor Coronel would like--But when
he returns he will see you, and then you can tell him yourself."

"He is away from home, then?"

"The Señor Coronel has gone to London. He will be back to-morrow."

"Well, if I cannot thank him to-day, I can thank you. You are my nurse, are you not?"

"A little--Geist and I, and Mees Tomleenson, we relieve each other. But those two don't know
much about wounds."

"And you do, I suppose?"

"Hijo de Dios! Do I know much about wounds? I have nursed men who have been cut to pieces.
I have been cut to pieces myself. Look!"

And with that Ramon pointed to his neck, which was seamed all the way down with a tremendous
scar; then to his left hand, which was minus two fingers; next to one of his arms, which appeared
to have been plowed from wrist to elbow with a bullet; and lastly to his head, which was almost
covered with cicatrices, great and small.

"And I have many more marks in other parts of my body, which it would not be convenient to
show you just now," he said, quietly.

"You are an old soldier, then, Ramon?"

"Very. And now I will light myself a cigarette, and you will no more talk. As an old soldier,
I know that it is bad for a caballero with a broken head to talk so much as you are doing."

"As a surgeon, I know you are right, and I will talk no more for the present."

And then, feeling rather drowsy, I composed myself to sleep. The last thing I remembered before
closing my eyes was the long, swarthy, quixotic-looking face of my singular nurse, veiled in
a blue cloud of cigarette-smoke, which, as it rolled from the nostrils of his big, aquiline
nose, made those orifices look like the twin craters of an active volcano, upside down.

When, after a short snooze, I woke a second time, my first sensation was one of intense surprise,
and being unable, without considerable inconvenience, to rub my eyes, I winked several times
in succession to make sure that I was not dreaming; for while I slept the swart visage, black
eyes, and grizzled mustache of my nurse had, to all appearance, been turned into a fair countenance,
with blue eyes and a tawny head, while the tiny cigarette had become a big meerschaum pipe.

"God bless me! You are surely not Ramon?" I exclaimed.

"No; I am Geist. It is my turn of duty as your nurse. Can I get you anything?"

"Thank you very much; you are all very kind. I feel rather faint, and perhaps if I had something
to eat it might do me good."

"Certainly. There is some beef-tea ready. Here it is. Shall I feed you?"

"Thank you. My left arm is tied up, and this broken finger is very painful. Bat I am giving
you no end of trouble. I don't know how I shall be able to repay you and Mr. Fortescue for
all your kindness."

"Ach Gott! Don't mention it, my dear sir. Mr. Fortescue said you were to have every attention;
and when a fellow-man has been broken all to pieces it is our duty to do for him what we can.
Who knows? Perhaps some time I may be broken all to pieces myself. But I will not ride your
fiery horses. My weight is seventeen stone, and if I was to throw myself off a galloping horse
as you did, ach Gott! I should be broken past mending."

Mr. Geist made an attentive and genial nurse, discoursing so pleasantly and fluently that,
greatly to my satisfaction (for I was very weak), my part in the conversation was limited to
an occasional monosyllable; but he said nothing on the subject as to which I was most anxious
for information--Mr. Fortescue--and, as he clearly desired to avoid it, I refrained from asking
questions that might have put him in a difficulty and exposed me to a rebuff.

I found out afterward that neither he nor Ramon ever discussed their master, and though Mrs.
Tomlinson, my third nurse (a buxom, healthy, middle-aged widow, whose position seemed to be
something between that of housekeeper and upper servant), was less reticent, it was probably
because she had so little to tell.

I learned, among other things, that the habits of the household were almost as regular as those
of a regiment, and that the servants, albeit kindly treated and well paid, were strictly ruled,
even comparatively slight breaches of discipline being punished with instant dismissal. At
half-past ten everybody was supposed to be in bed, and up at six; for at seven Mr. Fortescue
took his first breakfast of fruit and dry toast. According to Mrs. Tomlinson (and this I confess
rather surprised me) he was an essentially busy man. His only idle time was that which he gave
to sleep. During his waking hours he was always either working in his study, his laboratory,
or his conservatories, riding and driving being his sole recreations.

"He is the most active man I ever knew, young or old," said Mrs. Tomlinson, "and a good master--I
will say that for him. But I cannot make him out at all. He seems to have neither kith nor
kin, and yet--This is quite between ourselves, Mr. Bacon--"

"Of course, Mrs. Tomlinson, quite."

"Well, there is a picture in his room as he keeps veiled and locked up in a sort of shrine;
but one day he forgot to turn the key, and I--I looked."

"Naturally. And what did you see?"

"The picture of a woman, dark, but, oh, so beautiful--as beautiful as an angel.... I thought
it was, may be, a sweetheart or something, but she is too young for the likes of him."

"Portraits are always the same; that picture may have been painted ages ago. Always veiled
is it? That seems very mysterious, does it not?"

"It does; and I am just dying to know what the mystery is. If you should happen to find out,
and it's no secret, would you mind telling me?"

At this point Herr Geist appeared, whereupon Mrs. Tomlinson, with true feminine tact, changed
the subject without waiting for a reply.

During the time I was laid up Mr. Fortescue came into my room almost every day, but never stayed
more than a few minutes. When I expressed my sense of his kindness and talked about going home,
he would smile gravely, and say:

"Patience! You must be my guest until you have the full use of your limbs and are able to go
about without help."

After this I protested no more, for there was an indescribable something about Mr. Fortescue
which would have made it difficult to contradict him, even had I been disposed to take so ungrateful
and ungracious a part.

At length, after a weary interval of inaction and pain, came a time when I could get up and
move about without discomfort, and one fine frosty day, which seemed the brightest of my life,
Geist and Ramon helped me down-stairs and led me into a pretty little morning-room, opening
into one of the conservatories, where the plants and flowers had been so arranged as to look
like a sort of tropical forest, in the midst of which was an aviary filled with parrots, cockatoos,
and other birds of brilliant plumage.

Geist brought me an easy-chair, Ramon a box of cigarettes and the "Times," and I was just settling
down to a comfortable read and smoke, when Mr. Fortescue entered from the conservatory. He
wore a Norfolk jacket and a broad-brimmed hat, and his step was so elastic, and his bearing
so upright, and he seemed so strong and vigorous withal, that I began to think that in estimating
his age at sixty I had made a mistake. He looked more like fifty or fifty-five.

"I am glad to see you down-stairs," he said, helping himself to a cigarette. "How do you feel?"

"Very much better, thank you, and to-morrow or the next day I must really--"

"No, no, I cannot let you go yet. I shall keep you, at any rate, a few days longer. And while
this frost lasts you can do no hunting. How is the shoulder?"

"Better. In a fortnight or so I shall be able to dispense with the sling, but my ankle is the
worst. The contusion was very severe. I fear that I shall feel the effects of it for a long time."

"That is very likely, I think. I would any time rather have a clean flesh wound than a severe
contusion. I have had experience of both. At Salamanca my shoulder was laid open with a sabre-stroke
at the very moment my horse was shot under me; and my leg, which was terribly bruised in the
fall, was much longer in getting better than my shoulder."

"At Salamanca! You surely don't mean the battle of Salamanca?"

"Yes, the battle of Salamanca."

"But, God bless me, that is ages ago! At the beginning of the century--1810 or 1812, or something
like that."

"The battle of Salamanca was fought on the 21st of July, 1812," said my host, with a matter-of-fact
air.

"But--why--how?" I stammered, staring at him in supreme surprise. "That is sixty years since,
and you don't look much more than fifty now."

"All the same I am nearly fourscore," said Mr. Fortescue, smiling as if the compliment pleased him.

