This story was published in the New-York Weekly Magazine in eight weekly installments from
July to September 1796. The installments are marked in the e-text with double rows of asterisks.
For more about the story and its origins, see the end of the text.

Sets of two, four or more hyphens represent long dashes in the original. Sets of three hyphens
--- are shown as printed.]

  Interesting History of

  THE PRINCESS DE PONTHIEU.

  Translated from the French.

Among all the great families which flourished in France in the reign of Philip the First, the
Count de St. Paul and the Count de Ponthieu were the most distinguished; but especially the
Count de Ponthieu, who, possessing a great extent of dominion, maintained the title of sovereign
with inconceiveable magnificence. He was a widower, and had an only daughter, whose wit and
beauty, supported by the shining qualities of her father, made his court polite and sumptuous,
and had attracted to it the bravest Cavaliers of that age. The Count de St. Paul had no children
but a nephew, son of his sister, by the Sieur la Domar, who was the only heir of his title
and possessions. This expectation was for the present his only fortune; but Heaven having formed
him to please, he might be said to be one of those whose intrinsic worth is sufficient to render
them superior to the rest of mankind: courage, wit, and a good mien, together with a high birth,
made ample atonement for his want of riches. This young Cavalier having engaged the notice
of the Count de Ponthieu in a tournament, where he had all the honour; he conceived so great
an esteem for him, that he invited him to his court. The considerable advantages he offered
him were so much above what the Count de St. Paul's nephew could for the present expect, that
he embraced the proposals he made him with pleasure, and the Count thought himself happy in
having prevailed on him to stay with him. Thibault, for so history calls this young Cavalier,
was no sooner come to court, than the beauty of the princess inspired him with admiration,
which soon ripened into love; and it was but in vain that reason opposed his passion, by representing
how little he was in a condition to make any such pretensions. Love is not to be controuled,
it is not to be repelled.--But in some measure to punish his temerity, he condemned himself
to an eternal silence; yet, though his tongue was mute, the princess, who had as great a share
of sensibility as beauty, soon perceived the effect of her charms written in his eyes, and
imprinted in all his motions, and, in secret, rejoiced at the conquest she had gained. But
the same reasons which obliged Thibault to conceal his sentiments, prevented her from making
any discovery of her's, and it was only by the language of their glances, they told each other
that they burned with a mutual flame.

As at that time there were great numbers of sovereign princes, there were very often wars between
them; and as the Count de Ponthieu had the greatest extent of land, so he was the most exposed:
But Thibault, by his courage and prudence, rendered him so formidable to his neighbours, that
he both enlarged his dominions and made the possession of them secure. These important services
added to that esteem the Count and Princess had for him before; but at last, a signal victory
which he gained, and which was of the utmost consequence to the Count, carried the gratitude
of that prince to such a height, that in the middle of his court, and among the joyful acclamations
of the people, he embraced the young hero, and begged him to demand a reward for his great
services; assuring him, that did he ask the half of his dominions, he should think himself
happy in being able to give a mark of his tenderness and gratitude. Thibault, who had done
nothing but with a view of rendering himself worthy of owning the passion he so long and painfully
had concealed, encouraged by such generous offers, threw himself at the feet of the Count,
telling him, that his ambition was entirely satisfied in having been able to do him any service;
but that he had another passion more difficult to be pleased, which induced him to beg a favour,
on which depended the whole felicity of his life. The Count pressed him to an explanation of
these words, and swore to him by the faith of a knight, an oath inviolably sacred in those
times, that there was nothing in his power he would refuse him. This promise entirely recovering
the trembling lover from that confusion which the fears that accompany that passion had involved
him in, "I presume then, my lord," said he, "to beg, I may have leave to declare myself the
Princess's knight, and that I may serve and adore her in that quality. I am not ignorant,"
continued he, "of the temerity of my wishes, but if a crown be wanting to deserve her, let
me flatter myself with the hope that this sword, already successful over your enemies, may
one day, enforced by love, make my fortune worthy of the glory to which I aspire." The joy
which appeared in the face of the Count at this demand, would be impossible to represent: he
raised Thibault, and again tenderly embracing him, "My son," said he, "for so henceforth I
call you, I pray heaven to dispose my daughter to receive your vows as favourably as I shall
satisfy them." He took him by the hand with these words, and led him to the Princess's apartment;
"Daughter," said he, "as I have nothing so dear to me as yourself, you alone can recompense
the obligations I have to this young warrior.--The respect he has for you, makes him desire
only to be entertained as your knight; but I come to let you know. I would have you receive
him as your husband." The Princess blushing cast down her eyes; but being commanded to reply,
she confessed the choice he had made for her was agreeable to her inclinations, and that it
was with pleasure she submitted to her father's will. Thibault thanked the kind concession
in terms that testified his excess of transport. The Count perceiving their mutual wishes,
suffered them not to languish in expectation of a blessing he had resolved on; but gave immediate
orders for the marriage preparations, and a few days after it was celebrated with the magnificence
the occasion deserved. Hymen, in agreement with love, only rendered their flames more lasting;
possession was so far from extinguishing them, that it seemed to be the torch which kindled
them. The Count was charmed with the happy union he saw between them, and his heart could scarce
decide which he most loved, his own daughter, or son-in-law.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

Two years passed away without any other interruption of their joy, than the want of heirs;
and though that no way diminished their love, yet it gave Thibault some uneasiness, which made
him resolve on a progress to St. James of Gallicia; that age was not so corrupted as this is,
the heroes fought as much to shew their piety as their courage; and what would now be thought
a weakness, at that time gave a greater lustre to their virtue. It was not surprising therefore
to see the valiant Thibault taking a resolution of going to Compostella; but the Princess not
being able to bear a separation from so dear a husband, would needs accompany him, and join
her vows with his; his unabated affection for her, made him receive the proposal with joy,
and the Count de Ponthieu, always ready to oblige him, ordered an equipage to be got ready,
worthy of those illustrious pilgrims, being willing that they should be well enough accompanied,
to prevent any accident during their journey. They set out, and the hope of seeing them again
in a little time, lessened the Count's affliction at the separation.

They got safe to a little village within a day's journey of Compostella; there Thibault stopped,
to rest the Princess; and the next day, finding themselves somewhat fatigued, he sent his attendants
before him to provide for their coming, that they might lose no time, retaining only his chamberlain.
When they thought themselves sufficiently reposed, they set forward; but having learned there
was a dangerous place in the forest, through which they were obliged to pass, the Prince sent
his chamberlain to recal some of his people. Nevertheless they still went on, and their ill
fortune engaged them in a road, which had so many cross ways to it, that they knew not which
to take. The robbers had made an easy plain path, which led travellers into the most intricate
part of the forest, getting numbers by this means into their power: it was this fatal one;
the unhappy Thibault and his lady imagined to be in the right; but they soon perceived their
error. When not having gone above two bow-shots into it they found it terminated in a thicket:
out of which, before they could avoid them, rushed eight men completely armed, and surrounded
them, commanding them to alight. Thibault had no arms, but his courage disdaining to yield
obedience to these ruffians, made him answer in terms which let them see it must be to their
number they must be obliged to force him: one of them thinking to do so, quitting his rank,
made at him with his lance; but Thibault with an admirable dexterity avoided the blow, and
seized the lance as it passed him, with the vigour of an arm accustomed to victory; then seeing
himself in a state of defence, he set on them with an heroic fierceness, killing one immediately,
and facing them all, pierced a second; but in attacking a third, the lance flew into a thousand
shivers, and disabled him from resisting farther. The remaining five encompassing him, and
killing his horse, seized him; and notwithstanding his efforts, and the piercing cries of the
Princess, stripped him, and tied him fast to a tree, not being willing to steep their hands
in the blood of so brave a man. The heat of the combat, and their eagerness in tearing off
his rich habit, had hindered them from casting their eyes on the Princess; but she being now
left alone, she appeared a more precious booty than what they had just taken. Love inspires
virtuous minds with a desire of doing only great and noble actions, and in the hearts of any
others than these barbarians, would have endeavoured to have insinuated itself by pity: but
that virtue being unknown to them, the charms of this unfortunate lady only redoubled their
cruelty. Their fury and brutality inflamed them; and no intreaty could deter such hardened
wretches from being guilty of the most shameful crimes!---What a spectacle was this for a husband!---The
soul of the wretched Thibault was torn with the most poignant anguish---distracted at not being
able either to succour, or revenge her, who was a thousand times dearer to him than his life---he
conjured heaven to strike him dead that moment---all that can be conceived of horror, of misery,
without a name, was his.---But if his despair was more than words can represent, how much more
was that of the afflicted Princess?---she tore her hair and face, begged, threatened, struggled,
till her delicate limbs had lost the power of motion; filled all the forest with her piercing
cries, without making those relentless monsters recede from their design. Never woman so ardently
wished to be beautiful, as she did to become deformed, she would have rejoiced so have had
her lovely face that moment changed into the likeness of Medusa; but all her prayers and tears
were ineffectual; victim of force and rage.---The cruel leader of these fiends had just effected
his diabolical intentions, when a sudden noise of the trampling of horses and the distant voices
of men, forced them to fly. Fear, the companion of villainous actions, made them abandon their
prey, and make off with incredible swiftness, so that the wretched Princess soon lost sight
of them; but her irremediable misfortune, too present to her mind, to vanish with the authors
of it, disordered her senses so cruelly, that abhorring herself, and believing she could no
longer inspire her husband with any thing but contempt, she looked on him as one that was become
her cruellest enemy; witness of her disgrace, her troubled imagination made her believe she
ought to free herself from the only one who had the power of publishing it.---Struck with the
idea of being unworthy of his affection, all the love she had formerly bore him, now changed
into hatred and fury; and becoming as barbarous as the very ruffians, who had just left her,
she snatched up one of the dying villain's swords, and ran with her arm lifted up to take away
the life of her wretched husband: but little accustomed to such actions, the blow fell on the
cords which bound him, and gave him liberty to wrest the weapon from her hands.---He discovered
immediately her thoughts, and made use of the most moving softness to calm the tempest of her
soul: "If," said he, "you could read my heart, you would find grief and pity only there---with
what alas! can I accuse you!---What are you guilty of?---I still am your husband---still love
you with the same unabated fondness---am the only witness of your ill fortune; I'll hide it
from the eyes of the world, nor shall you ever be sensible that I myself remember it---seek
not therefore by a blind fury to publish our mutual shame---comfort yourself, and let us by
sentiments of piety, endeavour to purify ourselves from an involuntary crime." In this manner
did he talk to her, but all his love and tenderness made no impression on her mind---she answered
him only by her endeavours to snatch away the sword, and stab him. During this melancholy struggle
their attendants arrived; they had also lost themselves, and having sought their master all
over the forest, the noise of their horses, though then at a distance, had frighted the robbers,
and saved the Princess from further violation.

Thibault took a cloak from one of his equipage, and having mounted his disconsolate lady on
horseback, did the same himself, and in a short time arrived at Compostella, neither he nor
she speaking a word. Deep affliction was imprinted in both their countenances; but the princess
had a wildness in her eyes and air, that discovered the distraction of her mind. Thibault placed
her in an abbey, and went and prostrated himself at the feet of the altars; not with the design
he went for, but to beg of heaven to enable him to undergo so terrible an adventure. This act
of piety being over, he returned to the Princess: who remaining still in the same humour, not
being able to get any expressions from her but threats against his life, he took her out, and
returned with all possible speed to Ponthieu, where they were received with a joy that they
were not able to partake.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

During their journey, and on their arrival, Thibault omitted no act of tenderness, to convince
the Princess she was still as dear to him as ever; but finding all his protestations in vain,
and that she concealed a dagger in the bed one night with an intent to assassinate him, he
took a separate apartment, still endeavouring by his behaviour to her, to prevent the public
from finding out the cause of their disagreement; and he was the more to be pitied, because
he could not help loving her still with the same ardency as ever. In the mean time, the Count
de Ponthieu perceived there was something more than ordinary between them, they could not hide
it from his penetration; Thibault was overwhelmed with a secret melancholy--the Princess would
be seen but rarely; her silence, and when she was obliged to speak, the incoherency of her
words, in fine, all her actions implied a strange alteration, and made him resolve to oblige
Thibault to a discovery of the cause.---He defended himself a long time, but being too closely
pressed by a prince, to whom he owed every thing, he at last revealed all the particulars of
his misfortune to him, and painted his love, and the unjust fury of the Princess, in such moving
colours, that the Count was so thoroughly affected, that he could scarce contain his anger
against her. He pitied Thibault, comforted him, and promised him to speak to the Princess in
a manner, which should oblige her to change her conduct. "Yours," said he, "is so prudent and
so tender, that I cannot sufficiently admire it; and I hope my daughter will not always be
insensible of it, but return to her duty."

He left him, and passed to the Princess's apartment, whom he found sitting in an elbow-chair;
her head reclined, and in the posture of one buried in thought, her women round her in a profound
silence. The Count making a sign for them to withdraw; "What, daughter," said he, "will you
never lay aside this gloomy melancholy which so much troubles me, and astonishes my whole court.---I
know your misfortune, your generous husband has just discovered it to me---I am very sensible
of it, but much more so of his proceeding; who, notwithstanding your blind rage, has preserved
so great a regard for you, as never to complain."

At these words, the Princess fixing her eyes full of fury on the face of her father, "How!"
cried she, "has Thibault dared to reveal that secret to you?" "Ah Princess," interrupted the
Count, "speak with more moderation of a man who adores you----think a moment, remember you
have loved this husband----that I did not force you to accept of him, that your misfortune,
dreadful as it is, has not impaired his esteem; you, in return, owe him the same affection
and confidence; I desire it of you as a friend, and demand it of you as a parent and a sovereign.
Make good use of the pity that pleads in my breast in your behalf---and dread irritating me,
lest I throw aside the father, and act wholly as a prince." This discourse, so far from softening
the Princess, redoubled her distraction, and she discovered so much rage of temper to the Count,
that he deferred, till a more favourable opportunity, the reclaiming her. He went out, ordering
her to be strictly guarded in her apartment, and that she should not be suffered to have communication
with any one but her women; and so returning to Thibault, informed him of the ill success he
had met with. Yet he did not despair, but every day for a whole month made fresh attempts on
her disordered mind; but every thing proving in vain, and her fury rather increasing than diminishing,
he resolved to free his family of a woman whom he looked on as a monster.---With this intent,
on pretence of taking the air, he carried her with him in a shallop, and having got a considerable
distance from shore, he ordered her to be seized by some sailors, and put into a tun prepared
for that purpose, and closing it up again, thrown into the sea. After this cruel expedition
he landed; but alas! what became of Thibault, when the other, still transported with rage,
told him what he had done! how great was his affliction! and what reproaches did he not vent
against so barbarous a father! He ran to the fatal place which he heard had been the grave
of his unhappy Princess; but finding nothing that could flatter him with any hope of there
being a possibility to save her, he returned to court in a condition truly pitiable;---the
many charms of his lost Princess dwelt for ever on his mind, and he thought himself the most
miserable creature living, because he had it not in his power to revenge her. It was not long
before the Count himself repented of the action, and his remorse became so great, that even
the miserable Thibault endeavoured to mitigate it. At last it wore off, and he began to think
a second marriage, and the hope of an heir, would dissipate his afflictions; and well knowing
that his son-in-law would never engage himself again, he married, and was happy enough at the
expiration of a year to have a son: yet his grief was not wholly vanished, his daughter came
ever fresh into his memory, and the light of Thibault, who continued overwhelmed with the deepest
melancholy, added to his despair.

In this manner they passed almost nine years, when the Count becoming once more a widower,
resolved, together with Thibault, and his little son, to travel to the Holy Land, hoping by
devotion to expiate his crime. Thibault, who now thought he had an opportunity of dying gloriously
in fighting for the faith, readily embraced the proposal. Every thing was soon ready for the
voyage, and the Count de Ponthieu having entrusted the government of his dominions to persons
of confidence, they set out, and arrived safely at Jerusalem. The Count and Thibault engaged
themselves for the space of a year in serving the temple, in which they had frequent opportunities
of testifying their zeal and courage. The year finished, and their vows accomplished, they
embarked in order to return. The winds were for some days favourable, but a most violent tempest
succeeding the calm, they were so shook by the fury of it, that they expected nothing but death;
when on a sudden, a contrary gust arising, drove them on the coast of Almeria, a land belonging
to the infidels; they were soon surrounded by the barks and brigantines of the Saracens, and
as the ship was incapable of putting to sea again, they were much less so in a condition of
defence.

The Count de Ponthieu, the young Prince his son, and Thibault, were made prisoners, and thrown
into dungeons; all the christians in the ship were served in the same manner, and so loaded
with irons, that they immediately found they had been preserved from the rage of the sea, only
to perish in a more cruel manner on land. Those heroes prepared themselves for death with a
resolution worthy of their courage; but the infidels believing them a noble sacrifice, permitted
them to live till the day on which they celebrated the birth of the Sultan, it being the custom
of that country, to offer to their gods on that day a certain number of criminals, or christians.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

The day being come, they were obliged to cast lots which of them should die first: the fatal
chance fell on the Count de Ponthieu; his son and Thibault contended for the preference, but
all they could obtain was, to wait on him to the place of execution. The whole court was assembled
to see this spectacle--The Sultan was present himself, and his Sultaness, whose extraordinary
beauty had attracted the eyes of all the Infidels, when they were drawn off by the arrival
of the illustrious victims, that were going to be sacrificed to the honour of the day. But
that Queen, whose soul was as perfect as her body, was surprized at the majestic air of the
Count de Ponthieu, who was as yet at a great distance from her: his venerable age, and the
contempt with which he seemed to look on his approaching fate, made her order him to be brought
nearer to her; he being a stranger, she let down her veil, the women of that country never
suffering themselves to be seen by any but Saracens.

As he approached, she found emotions which at that time she knew not had any other source than
pity; but having attentively looked on his face, she soon discovered the true cause: but making
use of her utmost efforts to prevent her disorder from being taken notice of, she asked him
his name, of what country he was, and by what accident he had been taken. The softness of her
voice, and the manner of her delivery, gave him a sensible alarm, though he knew not the meaning
of it--He answered her without hesitation, that he was of France, and of the sovereignty of
Ponthieu. "Are you here alone?" demanded the Queen. "I have two companions in my misfortunes,"
replied he, "my son and my son-in-law." The Queen ordered them immediately to be brought to
her; and having heedfully observed them for some time, ordered the sacrifice to be suspended,
and ran to the throne where the Sultan was sitting, and throwing herself at his feet "My lord,"
said she "if ever I have been happy enough to please you, and may flatter myself with your
affection, grant me the lives of these three slaves: they are of my country, and pity makes
me interest myself for them, and I hope your clemency will be rewarded by the merit of those
I am going to bind to your service." The Sultan, who adored her, raised her tenderly; "You
are mistress of my fate, madam," replied he, "can I refuse you then the being so of that of
those strangers? Dispose of them as you please, I give them entirely up to you, without reserving
to myself any right over them." She thanked him, in terms full of gratitude and respect, and
returning to the noble captives, informed them of their pardon; and being secretly too much
disordered to stay till the conclusion of the feast, she ordered them to follow her to her
apartment; where seeing herself alone with them, she was obliged to renew her efforts, to conceal
the confusion of her soul; and assuming an air of as much fierceness as she could, which was
heightened by a natural majesty; "I have saved your lives," said she, "and you may judge by
such a proof of my power, that I have authority enough to put you again into the same danger;
resolve therefore to satisfy my curiosity, in discovering without disguise all your adventures:
I give you till to-morrow to prepare yourselves; I must know your names, qualities, and by
what strange accident fate brought you into this country---if you are sincere you may expect
every thing from my goodness." Thibault who had not ventured to lift his eyes upon her while
they were before the Sultan, now endeavoured to discover, with the nicest penetration, her
beauties; which the thin gauze, of which her veil was made, did not altogether conceal. The
dazzling lustre of her sparkling eyes, and the thousand charms which played about her lovely
mouth, notwithstanding this impediment, were not wholly obscured from the view. The daring
gazer found himself agitated with emotions, which had been unknown to him since the death of
his unhappy wife. He felt a pleasure in contemplating this adorable queen, which nothing but
itself could equal; and perceiving the Count was silent, perhaps kept so by sentiments which
he knew not how to account for, he threw himself at her feet; "As for me, madam," said he,
"it will not be the fears of death that would prevail on me to relate the particulars of a
life which has been full of such unheard-of woes, that what to others would be the greatest
dread, to me would be a blessing---but there is something far more terrible than what you have
named, the abusing a generosity such as yours, prevents me from concealing any part of what
you command me to disclose---if therefore the recital of our misfortunes can testify our acknowledgments,
depend on our sincerity."

All the resolution which she had assumed for this rencounter, had like to have forsook her
at so moving a discourse; but making a new effort, "Rise," said she, "your destiny promises
something very touching, I am concerned in it more than you can yet imagine. The Sultan will
soon appear, therefore I would have you retire, you shall want for nothing this palace can
afford, recover yourselves of your fears and fatigues, and to-morrow you shall receive my orders;
and till then, I will defer the history I have engaged you to give me." She then called a slave
in whom she entirely confided; "Sayda," said she to her, "conduct them as I have ordered;"
and then making a sign to them to withdraw, they obeyed, and followed the slave. As they went
out they heard the Queen sigh, and neither of them could forbear doing so too---Thibault, who
quitted her with regret, returning to look on her once more, perceiving she put her handkerchief
to her eyes to wipe away some tears, he could not restrain his own. Sayda led them to a little
apartment behind the Queen's, it consisted of three rooms, and at the end an arched gallery,
where the fruit was kept that was every day served up to her table.---"This," said Sayda, "is
the only service the Sultaness expects from you; she could not have placed you so commodiously,
without giving you some employment that required your attendance near her person, you must
therefore take care of this fruit, put it in order in baskets provided for that use, and present
it to her at her repasts---under this pretence you may possess these apartments, and be served
by the slaves appointed for that purpose---you are to be subservient only to the Sultan and
Sultaness."

In speaking these words, she quitted them, leaving them in an inconceivable surprize at all
they had seen. When they were by themselves, Thibault, who could no longer contain in his breast
the different agitations which crouded one on another, and seemed to struggle for utterance,
approached the Count, and tenderly embracing him; "What a woman is this Queen, my lord," said
he, "and by what miracle does she reign over these barbarians! what have we done to deserve
her generous care of us! Ah! my lord, I find her companion dangerous---Alas! my dear Princess!"
added he, "you alone were wont to raise these emotions in my soul!" "I don't know," replied
the Count, "what will be our fate, or what are the designs of the Queen: her goodness does
not affect me as it does you; you are young, and your heart still preserves a fund of passion,
which may cause more violent perturbations in it than mine; yet I own, I have felt for her
the tenderness of a father; and that when she spoke, my daughter came into my mind---But I
am afraid, my dear Thibault, that you will doubly lose your liberty in this fatal place." Thibault
made no other answer than by sighs; and some refreshments being brought in, they were forced
to drop a discourse, that did not admit of witnesses.

The Queen, in the mean time, was too much interested in the affairs of the day to be very easy,
and was no sooner left alone with her dear Sayda, than giving a loose to the transports she
had so long restrained, her beautiful face was bathed all over in tears. The faithful slave,
astonished at her excess of grief, kneeled down at her feet, and taking one of her hands; "Alas!
madam," said she, "what is this sudden misfortune---are these strangers come to trouble the
tranquility you were beginning to enjoy!---you have hitherto honoured me with your confidence---may
I not now know what has occasioned this grief?" "Ah! dear Sayda," replied her royal mistress,
"let not appearances deceive you.--Love, joy, nature, and fear, makes me shed tears much more
than any grief---that husband so dear to me, and of whom thou hast heard me speak so much,
is one of the captives whose lives I have saved---the other is my father, and the young lad
my brother. The horror of seeing my father die for the diversion of a people to whom I am Queen,
has pierced me with so lively an affliction, that I wonder the apprehension of it did not a
second time deprive me of my reason---my husband, partaker of the same fate, his melancholy,
his resignation before me, his looks full of that love and tenderness which once made my happiness,
has touched my soul in the most nice and delicate part: I dare not discover myself, before
I know their sentiments; and the constraint I have put on myself, has been such, as nature
scarce can bear---Preserve my secret, dear Sayda, and don't expose me again to tremble for
lives on which my own depends." "Doubt not of my fidelity, madam," answered the other, "'tis
inviolable, my religion, your goodness which I have so often experienced, and the confidence
with which you have honoured me, have attached me to your service till death."

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

These assurances entirely satisfied the Queen, and they consulted together on measures by which
they might be at liberty to entertain the illustrious slaves the next day. The Sultan's coming
in, put an end to their conversation for this time. This Prince, who had no other defect than
his being a Saracen, accosted her with that joy, which his having had it in his power to oblige
her, gave him---"Well madam," said he, "can you doubt of my love!---may I flatter myself, that
what I have done will dispel the grief and melancholy that has so long possessed you?"---"I
owe you every thing, my lord," said she, "and my whole endeavours shall be to express my gratitude."
The Sultan, charmed to find her in so good a humour, entertained her a little longer, and then
told her (for he was just come from council) that it was resolved to oppose vigorously an irruption
that a neighbouring prince had made into his dominions, and that war was going to be declared
immediately.

This news inspired the Queen with a thought, which succeeded to her wish; and being willing
to take advantage of the disposition she found the Sultan in, of granting her every thing;
"Heaven," said she, "favours me in an extraordinary manner, in giving me an opportunity of
acknowledging your goodness. One of the captives, my lord, whom you have given me, is the most
valiant man of his time, nor is his conduct in war inferior to his courage, which the wonders
he has done evinces. I am almost assured you will have the victory, if you permit him to combat
the enemy." The Sultan remonstrated to her the difference of their religions, and the little
assurance he could have in the faith of a Christian. "I'll be the pledge of his fidelity; and
the better to assure you, I'll keep the two other captives, who are, I know, very dear to him,
as hostages." The Sultan seemed satisfied with these words, and granted her request, leaving
her absolute mistress to act in this affair as she pleased; and retired to his apartment, much
more affected with the joy of obliging her, than disturbed at the success of the war.

The beautiful Queen passed the night in very different emotions; love had renewed his forces
in her soul, nature that did for a while revolt at the remembrance of the cruelty inflicted
on her, returned to its obedience, and was wholly taken up with the fear of not being loved,
and remembered enough to be acknowledged, when discovered, with the joy she wished.----The
Counts of Ponthieu and St. Paul spent not their hours more quietly. Thibault found himself
agitated with the perturbations of a dawning passion; he accused himself of it as a crime.
The Count was no less embarrassed about his, tho' he was very well assured they proceeded not
from love, but the prodigious resemblance he found between his daughter and this lovely Queen,
reminded him of the barbarity he had been guilty of.----He could not imagine there had been
a possibility of saving that unhappy princess; but the tenderness with which the Sultaness
had inspired him, was so near that he felt for his daughter, that it gave him an astonishment
not to be conceived.

Day appearing, they rose, and set themselves about preparing the fruit, as Sayda had ordered
them; which done, they were not long before they received a command to bring it to the Queen.
Nothing could be more pleasing than this commission; both found an undescribable impatience
to see her again, and followed the faithful slave 'till they came into her presence. They found
her dressed with an incredible magnificence, resplendent with an infinite number of diamonds;
she was reclined on a sofa, and after having looked a moment on them, "Well," said she, "are
you ready to satisfy me?---I will not give you the pains of relating your names and qualities,
neither are unknown to me; only tell me by what strange adventure you arrived at this place.---Count
de Ponthieu, it is to you in particular I address."

The Count was in a surprize which cannot be expressed, to hear himself named, and finding there
was indeed no room for dissimulation, told his story with sincerity; but when he came to that
part which concerned his daughter, his sighs made many interruptions in his discourse, yet
did he forget no circumstance, but confessed the crime he had been guilty of, in putting her
to death: "But alas!" added he, "with what remorse has my soul been torn since that fatal day!---my
tenderness for her revived with fresh vigour, and the torments I have endured, have been such,
that if her spirit has any knowledge of what is transacted in this lower world, she must believe
my punishment at least equal to my guilt."---Then he told her of their vow, their voyage to
Jerusalem, the tempest, and their slavery and condemnation.---"This, madam," said he, "is a
faithful account of our misfortunes; and though they are of a nature beyond the common rank
of woes, yet they receive no inconsiderable alleviation, by the concern your excessive goodness
makes you take in them."---And, indeed, the fair Sultaness, during the latter part of his relation,
had seemed drowned in tears, and was some time before she could recover herself enough to speak;
but at last---"I own," said she, "that what you have told me, very much touches me.--I extremely
pity the Princess of Ponthieu, she was young, her reason might have returned to her; the generous
proceeding of her husband, would doubtless have reclaimed her in time: but Heaven has punished
you for your cruelty, you must not therefore be any more reproached with it. But to prove your
penitence sincere, what reception would you give that Princess if by any miracle, which I cannot
at present conceive, she should have escaped that destiny your rashness exposed her to?" "Ah
madam!" cried the Count, "were there a possibility of such a blessing, my whole life should
be employed in rendering hers fortunate!" "And you," said she to Thibault, who she saw overwhelmed
in tears, "would your wife be dear to you? Could you forgive her distracted behaviour? Could
you restore her to your heart, as fond, as tender as ever?--in short, could you still love
her?"--"Question it not, madam," answered he, with a voice interrupted with sighs, "nothing
but her presence can ever make me happy."--"Receive her, then," cried she, casting aside her
veil, and throwing herself into his arms, "I am that unfortunate wife--I am that daughter,"
added she, running to her father, "that has cost you so many melancholy hours. Own her, my
lord; take her to your breast, my dear Thibault, nor let the sight of her dissipate the tenderness
you expressed for her when unknown."

Who can describe the joy and astonishment of these illustrious persons! their eyes were now
opened, the secret emotions they had felt, were now easy to be accounted for.---She was acknowledged
for the wife, blessed as the daughter, with a torrent of inexpressible delight. Thibault threw
himself at her feet, bathing her hands in tears of joy; while the Count held her in his arms,
without being able to utter more than---my daughter---my dear---my long lost daughter.---The
young Prince kissed her robe; and Sayda, only witness of this moving scene, dissolved in tears
of tenderness and joy.---At length the first surprise being over, this mute language was succeeded
by all the fond endearing things that nature, wit, and love had the power of inspiring. The
beautiful Queen had now time to return the caresses of the young Prince her brother, who, though
she knew no otherwise than by her father's account, his youth and beauty had very much affected
her from the first time she saw him.---After having a little indulged their transports, "It
is time," said she, "to inform you of my adventures. The Sultan is taken up with making preparations
for a war he is obliged to enter into, so that we may have the liberty of conversing, without
the apprehension of being interrupted."----Then having seated themselves, and Sayda being placed
on the outside of the cabinet, to give them notice if any suspicious person should appear,
the charming Sultaness addressing herself to the Count, began her discourse in this manner:

"I will not repeat," said she, "the cause of your designing my death, you are but too sensible
of it, and the loss of my reason is too well known to you for me to go about to renew the affliction
it occasioned you: I shall only say, that it was excess of love which caused my distraction,
and being prepossessed with an idea of being no longer worthy of my husband's affection, imagining
that I saw him reproaching me with my misfortune, and endeavouring to get rid of me; I was
so abandoned by my senses, as to wish his death, as the only thing that could restore me to
my repose. This thought so wholly engrossed my soul, that I looked on the sentence you inflicted
on me, as caused by him; my frenzy prevented the horror of my fate from making any impression
on me; and you may remember, Sir, that I neither endeavoured by intreaties or strugglings to
avert it, being rather in a state of insensibility than any thing else. Which course my little
vessel steered, or how long I continued in it, I know not---all I can tell, is, that I found
myself in a real ship, in the midst of a great many unknown persons, busily employed in bringing
me to myself; but what is most surprising, I recovered my sight, memory and reason, at the
same instant; whether it was owing to the common effect which the fear of death has, or to
the property of the sea, or, to judge better, the work of heaven: but all I had said, or done,
or thought, came into my mind, and I found myself so guilty against you and my husband, that
the first sign of life that my deliverers perceived in me, was by shedding an excessive shower
of tears; which was the more violent, because I had never wept since that fatal adventure in
the forest: and indeed I thought, as did all about me, that they would have suffocated me;
but so much care was taken of me, that without putting an end to my affliction, my life was
out of danger.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

"The people of the ship had placed about me a young woman extremely amiable;--the tenderness
she expressed for the griefs she saw I was involved in, made me conceive a very great friendship
for her; and, indeed, as she was the only woman there, it was natural for us to be more than
ordinarily pleased with each other. When she found me a little composed, she informed me that
we were with Flemish merchants, who were trading to the Levant; that having perceived from
deck my extraordinary tomb, the hope of finding something valuable in it, had made them take
it aboard; but having opened it, they were surprised to see a woman richly habited: that at
first they thought me dead, because I was very much swelled, but having placed me in the open
air, a little motion of my heart gave them hope of recovering me; that accordingly, with great
difficulty, they effected it; and finding, as they thought, some beauty in me, they resolved,
at the expence of my liberty, to make themselves amends for having found nothing but me in
the tun. ''Tis with this design,' added she, 'that we are sailing towards Almeria, where these
merchants design to sell you to the Sultan of that place: it is now six months since they took
me away from the coast of France, which is my native country, on the same account; but I very
well foresee that your beauty will preserve me from being exposed to the Sultan's desires:
yet, as I cannot avoid slavery, I beg, madam, that you will not let me be separated from you.
The Sultan will without doubt buy you; contrive it so, that he may think I am a dependant of
yours.' I was very glad to have a French woman with me, so promised her, that whatever was
my fate, she should, if she pleased, share it with me; but what she had told me, giving me
great uneasiness, I desired to speak with the captain of the ship. I began with thanking him
for the succour he had given me, and thinking to have gained him with the hope of a reward,
I assured him it should be made even beyond his wishes, if he would land me on the coast of
France. He answered me that he doubted not my generosity, nor my being considerable enough
to recompense the service he had done me; but that he could not follow his own inclination
in doing what I desired him, because he was accountable to his companions, who had resolved
to sell me and the other young French woman to the Sultan of Almeria: that they knew would
be certain gain to them, without running the risque of what my promises might produce. With
these words he returned to his companions, and gave me not leave no answer him; I made several
other efforts, but finding it impossible to persuade them to alter their resolutions, I was
obliged to submit to my ill destiny. In proportion, as I recovered my reason, my affection
to my dear Thibault resumed its empire over my soul.--I was sensible of the whole extent of
my misfortunes, and my despair would perhaps have kept no bounds, if it had not been for the
prudence and good-nature of my young companion. Yet for all her cares, I fell into such a melancholy,
as frighted the merchant, lest I should lose the lustre of my beauty, of which he proposed
to himself so great an advantage.

"At length they arrived at Almeria, and we were immediately led to the Sultan. As he was accustomed
to traffic with those people, he received them perfectly well, and was so well pleased with
their prize, that he gave them their demand both for myself and Sayda. We were placed in the
palace of the Sultan's women, where he soon followed us; and I had the misfortune of affecting
him in so extraordinary a manner, that he seemed to make his loving me an affair of state.--I
call that a misfortune, which any one but me would have looked on as the highest felicity:
for I owe the Sultan the justice to say, that he is full of merit, and adorned with the most
heroic virtues; but I was a christian, and prepossessed with a passion, which left no room
for any other; I therefore considered his assiduity as my worst of troubles. This prince perceiving
my regard for Sayda, gave her to me; (Sayda is a name I made her assume to conceal her own.)
He placed me, in an apartment different from those the rest of the women were lodged in, and
commanded that I should be served as queen. All these honours added to my uneasiness; yet the
submission with which he treated me, gave me sometimes a hope he never would have recourse
to force that which I was resolved never to grant; but alas! this prince at last, worn out
with his own consuming passion and the continual murmurs of his subjects, who could ill endure
he should express so much consideration for a christian, resolved to speak to me in stronger
terms than he had hitherto done. My resistance had lasted a whole year, and he thought he had
sufficiently testified his respect, in allowing me so long a time: he came to me therefore
one day, and finding me extremely melancholy, 'Madam,' said he, 'it is with great regret I
find myself obliged to exceed the bounds I have prescribed myself in gaining your heart, but
you must now consent either to marry me or publicly abjure your religion; all my power cannot
exempt you from the laws which oblige the women of the seraglio to embrace our faith.---I adore
you, and though I ought to compel you to a change so beneficial to you, yet I will not, since
it is not your desire.--I promise you the free exercise of your religion in private, provided
you accept of the crown I offer you;---my subjects, and all my court, will then believe you
have changed your religion, without seeking any further proofs, and you will be at liberty
to observe your own in secret:---this is the only means to preserve you from the fury of a
people, who, when enraged, have no regard even for their sovereign. It would have been more
agreeable to me, if my love and attentions had engaged you; but I hope time will inspire your
heart with those sentiments, that will be conducive to my felicity, and your repose.' I could
not refrain from tears at this discourse of the Sultan:---the choice appeared terrible to me;
'Is it possible, my lord!' replied I, 'that among the number of beauties who would be proud
of the honour you offer me, you cannot find one more worthy than myself? If you had not distinguished
me, your subjects would have thought nothing of me.---Consider, my lord, what glory you might
gain by subduing your passion, and suffering me to return to my native country.---What felicity
can it be, to live with a woman obtained but by fear and force, who will always be regretting
her parents and liberty.'

"The Sultan smiled at these words; 'I see, madam,' said he, 'that you are ignorant of your
own condition---you are in this place for life---when once a woman has entered within these
walls, there is no hope of ever getting out again, law and custom have decreed it so. Therefore
you are more obliged to me than you imagined, for the respect I have paid you, being from the
first moment the master of your destiny.' I then intreated he would give me three days to answer
him; he granted my request, and I spent them in prayers: but at length seeing myself without
any hope of relief, or ever returning to my country, that my death there was thought certain,
and that I had no means of letting you know I was living, or if I had, could not promise myself,
that, since you had consented to my death, the news would find a welcome: I looked on myself
as utterly abandoned; and the facility of following in private my own devotions, determined
me, in submitting to the Sultan's persuasions. The three days being expired, he came to me
again, and I then told him, that if he would swear never to force me to alter my religion,
I was ready to give him my hand. His joy at my consent was inconceiveable; and though he saw
plainly that what I did was out of necessity, he assured me he thought himself the happiest
man on earth, and bound himself by an oath sacred in their law, to suffer me to exercise my
own religion, provided I took care not to be discovered.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

"This news was soon blazed through all Almeria, and fated ever to be guilty of constrained
infidelities, I was proclaimed and crowned Sultana Queen, with a magnificence that would have
dazzled any one but the Princess de Ponthieu. During the whole ceremony, the image of Thibault
never quitted me, I spoke to it, begged its pardon, in short, I was so lost in thought, that
Sayda has since told me I had more the appearance of a statue than a living person. As for
you, my lord, I often reproached your cruelty, that had brought me to the precipice in which
I found myself. There has not passed one day in the nine years I have been married to the Sultan,
on which I have not talked of my dear Thibault to the faithful Sayda, with a torrent of tears.
The Sultan has kept his word with me, all his court thinks me a Renegada, he alone knows the
truth, and without reproaching me with my melancholy, has done his utmost to disperse it. The
same respect and complaisance has always accompanied his actions, and you yourselves have been
witnesses of my power, by his granting me without hesitation your lives. I knew you again the
first moment I saw your faces, and should have discovered myself yesterday, but had a mind
to know whether my memory was yet dear. These are my unhappy adventures; but this is not all
I have to say: You must, my dear Thibault, in order to regain your wife and liberty, expose
your life to fresh dangers: speak, do you think me worthy of so great a testimony of your continued
love and tenderness?" "You cannot make a doubt of it," answered he, "without being guilty of
a greater offence than all your distraction made you act----I swear to you, my dear Princess,
by the pleasure I had in obtaining you from your father, by the felicity I enjoyed in being
beloved by you, by my misfortune, and by the joy I feel in seeing you again, that I never adored
you with more ardour than I now do----Fear not therefore to explain yourself, command me, dispose
of me as you please." The fair Sultaness was charmed with this tender assurance, and there
being nobody present that she suspected, she again embraced her much loved husband, and then
told him what she had proposed to the Sultan. "'Tis of the utmost importance," added she, "that
you should gain his confidence by some signal service, that my designs may the better succeed--he
has already lost several battles, through the ill conduct of his generals; but if you fight
for him I doubt not of the victory.--He cannot refuse you his esteem, which will enable me
to put my project in execution."

The Count and Thibault approved of what she said; but the young Prince begged she would contrive
it so, that he might accompany his brother to the army, his youthful heart burning with impatience
to behold so noble a sight; but the Queen told him she could not possibly gratify those testimonies
of so early a courage, though she admired them, because she had given her promise to the Sultan,
that both he and his father should remain at court as hostages for the fidelity of Thibault.
After some further discourse, and renewed embraces, she ordered them to retire, it growing
towards the hour in which the Sultan was used to visit her. They were scarce out of the room,
before that Prince entered; and having asked her if the valiant captain agreed with her intentions:
"Yes, my lord," replied she, "he is impatient to express by his services the grateful sense
he has of his obligation to us." The Sultan immediately commanded they should all three be
brought before him; and observing them more heedful than he had done before, was infinitely
charmed with their good mien: the venerable age, and commanding aspect of the Prince of Ponthieu,
excited his respect; the beauty and vivacity of the young Prince, his admiration; but in the
noble air, and manly graces of the accomplished Thibault, he fancied he discovered an assurance
he would be able to answer the character the Sultaness had given of him--The more he considered
him, the more he found to increase his love and esteem for him.---"The Sultaness," said he,
"who has saved your life, will needs, out of love for me, and respect for you, have you expose
it in my service.---I see nothing about you but what serves to convince me I do not err, when
I place entire confidence in you: therefore you must prepare to set out to-morrow, I have in
my council declared you general. My subjects are fatigued, and heartless with continual losses,
and though you are a christian, my soldiers will with joy obey you, if your valour does but
answer their expectations, and the character they have of you." After Thibault had in the most
handsome and submissive manner assured him of his zeal and fidelity, that prince proceeded
to give him those instructions which were necessary; and retiring, left him, to receive those
of the Sultaness.

He was no sooner gone, than turning towards Thibault, "You are going to fight against infidels,"
said she, "tho' you fight for one; but, my dear husband! consult my repose as well as your
own courage, and fight to conquer, not to die;---remember I expose you, that I may the better
save you." He thanked her for her obliging fears, and promised to combat only to preserve his
honour, and gain the opportunity to deliver her.---It being time to retire, they quitted the
Queen's apartment, and returning to their own, a slave brought up Thibault, a stately vest
and sabre, adorned with precious stones, a present to him from the Sultan; he put them on,
and attended that prince at dinner, who saw him with pleasure. They discoursed on the different
methods of making war, and the Sultan found his new general so consummate in the art, that
he assured himself of victory: he then presented him to the chief men of his court. The rest
of the day was employed in reviewing the troops that were in Almeria. As he was to go the next,
he begged of the Sultaness by Sayda, that he might be permitted to bid her adieu without any
witnesses; the fair Queen, who desired it with equal ardour, appointed night for the interview:---so
when all was quiet in the palace, he was introduced by that faithful slave into the apartment
of his dear Princess. Then it was, that this long separated husband and wife, now more in love,
if possible, than ever, renewed their protestations of everlasting affection, and, forgetting
the rest of the world, gave a loose to the raptures of being once more blessed, and the soft
hope of re-uniting themselves, no more to be divided. Thus the best part of the night passed,
and day would have surprised them, had not Sayda given them notice it was time to part. The
Sultaness wept, and Thibault was extremely moved, but reason reassuming its empire, they embraced
and bade each other adieu, and begged heaven they might soon meet again. He went not to bed,
employing the remaining hours in taking leave of the Count de Ponthieu, and the young Prince
his son.---He recommended his dear Princess to the former, intreating him to neglect no opportunities
of being with her. He then repaired to the Sultan, to receive his last commands, and set out
with a cheerfulness that seemed to presage success.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

During his absence, the watchful policy of the fair Sultaness contrived to acquire a great
number of creatures, ready to undertake any thing to serve her; she caused several favours
to be conferred on them, through the interest the Count had with the Sultan. He was now grown
prodigiously in his favour--The Sultan used frequently to divert himself with hunting, it was
an exercise he extremely loved, and the Count understanding it perfectly, was always one of
the party.--The expresses which were continually brought of the victories Thibault had gained
over the enemy, increased the Sultan's esteem for the two hostages. Three months passed thus,
with creating new friends on the Queen's side, and confidence on the Sultan's; but the joy
of both, though for different reasons was compleated, when a courier arrived with the news
that the conquering Thibault had entirely vanquished, cut the whole army of the foe in pieces,
killed their prince with his own hand, and not only recovered the dominion they had taken from
the Sultan, but also added that of the bold invader to his empire.--These glorious actions
were celebrated in Almeria by great rejoicings;--nothing was talked of but the bravery of the
captive, and the obligations both king and people had to him. As for him, when he found no
more enemies to combat, he made haste to garrison the conquered places, and having deputed
such governors as he thought were faithful, returned in triumph to Almeria. The Sultan received
him as his guardian angel, restored him his liberty, and pressed him to accept the greatest
places in his empire, if he would change his religion; but the other gave him to understand,
though with the greatest respect, that he could not embrace his favours, but assured him he
would stay at his court as long as he should be wanted. This refusal was so far from incensing,
that the Sultan gave him the greater esteem for it; and this illustrious warrior became so
considerable at the court of Almeria, that nothing was done but by his advice. The Sultaness
finding the success of her project, now thought it time to put the finishing stroke to it.
She pretended to be with child, and that the air of Almeria did not agree with her; a Renegada
physician, that she had gained to her interest, assured the Sultan that her life would be in
danger, if she did not remove from where the was; that prince alarmed by the tenderness he
had for her, begged her to make choice of any of his houses of pleasure, to go and reside in.--The
Sultaness pitched on one which was by the seaside, and the way to which was by sea.--The Sultan
immediately gave orders for the equipping a galley, and the Queen took care to fill it with
persons entirely devoted to her interest.--When every thing was ready, she begged the Sultan
that she might be accompanied thither by the French cavalier, for the security of her person;
as for the Count de Ponthieu and his son, there was no occasion for asking leave for their
attendance, because they belonged immediately to her. The Sultan made no scruple of granting
every thing she desired, and she embarked with her father, her brother, and husband, and the
faithful Sayda; taking with her a son of seven years old, which she had by the Sultan, leaving
in Almeria a daughter that was still at the breast. Heaven seeming to favour their designs,
they were no sooner got to sea, than our warriors, seconded by the Queen's creatures, obliged
the slaves of the galley to row directly to Brindes, where they happily arrived. The Princess
gave the christian slaves their liberty, and put in their places all the Saracens she could
purchase, with orders to give the Sultan the following letter:

  The Princess of Ponthieu to the Sultan of Almeria.

  "If I had only your generosity to have combated, I would
  have discovered to you the cause which urged me to this
  flight--convinced, that you would rather have favoured than opposed
  it; but your love and religion being insurmountable obstacles, I was
  obliged to make use of artifice to be just.--I quit you not, my
  lord, through inconstancy, I follow my husband, my father, and my
  brother, who were the three captives whose lives you granted me; my
  husband having exposed his for your glory, and the security of your
  dominions, has, in part, acquitted me of the obligations I owe
  you.--I am a christian, and was a sovereign before your wife; judge
  therefore, whether my rank and religion did not demand this of
  me.---I shall always with gratitude remember the honour you have
  done me; I have left you my daughter, being obliged to abandon her
  on account of her youth:---Look on her, I intreat you, with the
  eyes of a father.---I wish you all the happiness you deserve, and
  shall with fervency beg of Heaven to bless you with that divine
  illumination, which is the only thing in which your heroic virtues
  are deficient.

  "PONTHIEU."

The Sultan saw the galley return, and received the Princess's letter, while she was prosecuting
her journey to Rome; he was inconceivably afflicted at the news, but his reason at length getting
the better of his despair, he endeavoured to comfort himself, by transplanting all the tenderness
he had paid the mother to the little daughter. In the mean time, our illustrious fugitives
arrived at Rome; where they were received by the Pope with extraordinary honours; and after
having reconciled the Princess and Sayda to the bosom of the church, they departed, loaded
with presents and favours to Ponthieu, where the unanimous joy of the people for their return
is not to be expressed. The Count dying some time after, his son inherited his dominions; but
that young prince not long surviving, he left the sovereignty to the Princess his sister, who
with her husband reigned a long time in perfect glory and happy unity. The son she had by the
Sultan, married a rich Heiress of Normandy, from whom are descended the lords of Preau; and
the princess, who was left behind with the Sultan, was married to a Saracen prince, and from
a daughter of that princess was born the famous Saladin, Sultan of Egypt, so known and dreaded
by all christianity.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

About the Story:

