7th. The party which covertly or avowedly, justified slavery was incomparably larger than any
Englishman would have dreamed of a week before the secession took place. Till then, I doubt
whether any writer of credit, except one, had ventured deliberately to affirm that American
slavery is, under limitations, an allowable and advantageous thing. That exception is assuredly
a most illustrious one, perhaps the strongest head and stoutest heart in the British dominions,
and our living writer of the most exalted and durable fame,--Thomas Carlyle. His "Occasional
Discourse on the Nigger Question," published some years ago, ruffled and outraged the anti-slavery
mind, which then, and for some while before and since, might fairly be termed the mind of all
England. That Discourse staggered some readers, and roused others,--roused them to contemplate
the whole question from a more fundamental and actual, a less traditional and prejudged point
of view, than had been in vogue since our own abolition movement gained the ascendency. It
became apparent to various thinkers that the humanitarian view of the question was not its
be-all and end-all; that some facts and considerations per contra had to be taken into account;
and that what one train of thought and feeling denounced as a mere self-condemned wrong might,
according to another, be even regarded as a higher right. Still, this "new light" upon slavery
was received more or less fully by only a very few minds, as compared with the general mass
of British conviction,--a few thorough-going believers in Carlyle, a few hardy and open-minded
speculators; hardly more, perhaps, in all, than those who would join Mr. John Stuart Mill in
saying that the right form of Parliamentary suffrage is universal suffrage, open to women as
well as men. No ordinary English newspaper would have thought of professing at that time, nor
any ordinary English reader of tolerating, the theory that slavery is right. (It is no part
of my plan or business to discuss this question of slavery: I will simply say, to avoid misapprehension,
that, while recognizing the profound good sense of much that Carlyle has said on this and cognate
matters, my own instinct of right and habits of opinion rebel against the pro-slavery theory,
and never allowed me to doubt which side I was on, when the question came to its supreme practical
issue in the civil war.) Such, then, appears to me to have been the state of English opinion
on this subject when the secession occurred. On one ground or another, a large proportion of
our population and our writers sided with the South. At first I fancy that no journal and no
average Englishman affirmed that slavery is justifiable; but, as events progressed, it became
more and more difficult to say that the South was right, and yet that slavery was wrong. "No
man can serve two masters," not even such a couple as Jefferson Davis and Wilberforce. The
British sympathizers, who had determined to "hold to the one," were reduced to the logical
necessity of "despising the other." It was a surprising spectacle. The dogmas and traditions
of half a century snapped like threads, when it became their office to constrain a penchant.
Ethnologists and politicians were equally ready to find out that the negro was fit for nothing
but enforced servitude. Parsons, marchionesses, and maiden aunts received simultaneous enlightenment
as to Christian truth, and discovered that slavery was not prohibited, but was even countenanced,
in the Bible. The inference was inevitable: what Moses did not condemn in Jews thirty-three
centuries ago must be the correct thing for Anglo-Americans to uphold at the present day. Did
not St. Paul tell Onesimus to return to his master? etc., etc. Many Secessionist organs of
public opinion, no doubt, declined to commit themselves to pro-slavery views: they started
with the assumption that slavery is an evil and a crime, and they continued protesting the
same creed. How far this creed was compatible with so rabid an advocacy of the Southern cause,--how
far it was possible for genuine abominators of slavery to continue unfaltering their Southern
palinodes and Northern anathemas, after such acts on the part of the South as the refusal to
include colored troops among exchangeable prisoners of war, and the massacre at Fort Pillow,
and such acts on the part of the North as the Emancipation Proclamation, and the introduction
of the Constitutional Amendment for abolition,--these are questions which appear deserving
of an answer; yet one may be quite prepared to find that the spirit of party, which made such
an anomaly possible, is blind to the fact of its being anomalous, and has an answer pat. My
own belief about the matter is this. When the Secession began, there were two sects among the
English partisans of the South: the Carlylese apologists of slavery,--a very small sect; and
the political advocates of Secession, who, partly with full conviction, partly as a mere matter
of unchallenged use and wont, repudiated slavery,--a very large sect. The Southern partisanship
of the former sect was perfectly logical; that of the latter unable to stand the wear and tear
of discussion, as the progress of events made it more and more manifest that slavery or abolition
was the real issue. With this latter sect the political or other liking for the South was a
much stronger and more active feeling than the humanitarian or other dislike of slavery; the
first feeling, indeed, soon developed into a passion, the second into a self-reproachful obstruction.
Thus the logical view, that slavery as well as the slaveholding interest was right, exercised
a powerful centripetal attraction; and many minds were betrayed into adopting it as a truth,
or using it for a purpose, without probing the depth of apostasy to their own more solid convictions,
or of moral disingenuousness, which the practice involved. The South had to be justified, and
here were at hand the means of justification. Now that the contest is over, I have no doubt
that a large residuum of tolerance for slavery, much larger than seemed possible for Englishmen
before the Secession, is left behind; but also that this tolerance was in most instances factitious
and occasional, and is cleared or clearing away, and will leave the British reprobation of
slavery, in a little while, pretty nearly where it used to be of old. The orange has been squeezed:
what use can the rind be of? It rests with the re-United States, by a just and successful treatment
of the still formidable negro question,[B] to persuade unreluctant minds in the Old Country
that slavery is, in very deed, the unmitigated wrong and nuisance which they used to reckon
it; and those who have sympathized with the North look confidently for this ultimate result.

As a corollary to all that I have been saying in this slight analysis of English opinion during
the war, I should add,--what, indeed, American writers have abundantly observed,--that the
knowledge of American affairs possessed by the great mass of English partisans was extremely
superficial. I will not now speak of our newspapers and pamphleteers; but, within my own experience,
among ordinary persons, who were quite ready to take sides, and stand stubbornly to their colors,
I have often found that even such rudimentary points as the distinction between "States" and
"Territories," the Northern resistance to the extension of slavery into Territories, the issue
taken on that immediate question in the Presidential election of 1860, the relation between
the three Federal Government and the States' governments, and the limits within which it would
be possible for a President and his administration, however anti-slavery in principle, to interfere
with slavery, were either not understood in theory, or not practically laid to heart. People
would talk as if a Federal President were a Russian autocrat, who, if sincerely opposed to
slavery, would have nothing in the world to do except to cancel the "peculiar institution"
throughout the States, North and South, by a motion of his will and a stroke of his pen. They
would demonstrate the half-heartedness on this matter of the North, as represented by its President
Lincoln, and the hypocrisy or truckling of Lincoln himself, by the omission of such a sealing
of their professed faith,--not caring to reflect how utterly subversive these notions must
be of that favorite catchword of Southern partisans; "State rights." It may be objected, "These
people can have been only the extremely ignorant." That, however, is my own conviction: but
such childish assumptions were not the less prevalent for being preposterous, nor the less
potent in leavening the mass of opinion, when the question was, which party to adopt.

Something--but necessarily very brief and imperfect--may be added concerning the particular
organs of public opinion which sided with the North or with the South. I shall confine myself
to London publications, not knowing enough of those in the country to treat that subject even
with fairness, much less with command of the materials. I presume, however, that the tone of
the London press furnishes a tolerable index to that of the provincial, taking the whole average.

The political color of the English press may be summarized as either Conservative, Liberal,
or Liberal-Conservative. The Conservative daily papers are the "Standard" and the "Herald,"
both rabidly Southern. The principal Liberal ones are the "Times," "Globe," "Telegraph," "Daily
News," and "Star." Of these five journals, three were for the South, and only two for the North,--the
two which I have named last. Two other Liberal daily papers are but little known to me,--the
"Advertiser" and the "Sun": I believe the latter was at any rate not decidedly Southern. Everybody
knows that the Times is the Englishman's paper par excellence; it would hardly be unfair to
call us "a Times-led population," unless, indeed, one prefers the term, "a popularity-led Times."
Converse with ten ordinary middle-class Englishmen,--men of business or position, receiving
or imparting the current of opinion which is uppermost in their class,--probably nine of them
will express views which you will find amplified in the columns of the Times. That journal
is neither above their level nor below it; as matters strike them, so do they also strike the
Times. Englishmen do not particularly respect the Times; it is like them, (or in especial like
the bustling, energetic, money-making, money-spending classes of them,) and they are like it;
but an Englishman of this sort will not feel bound to "look up to" the Times any more than
to another Englishman of the same class. They reciprocally express each other, and with no
obligation or claim to lofty regard on either side. When, therefore, one finds the Times abiding
for a long while (which is not invariably its way) by one constant view of a question, one
may be sure that it is supported in that view by an active, business-like, prominent, and probably
even predominant body of its countrymen; but it by no means follows that the deeper convictions
of the nation, its hearty sentiments of right, for which it would be prepared to do or die,
are either represented or roused by the newspaper. The Times, during the American War, was
cursed--or cursed its readers--with prophets, seers, and oracles, in its correspondents; and
the prophecies turned out to be ridiculously wrong, the seeing to be purblindness, and the
oracles to be gibberish. A more miserable exposure could not easily be cited; the most indignant
American might afford to pity the Times, when, after four years of leonine roarings and lashings
of tail, its roar sank into a whine, and its tail was clapped between its legs. The supremacy
of the Times had already been sapped by the abolition of the British paper-duty, and the consequent
starting of various penny-newspapers. If this fiasco does not gravely damage it, the reason
can only, I suppose, be in the conformity of character and of impetus already pointed out between
our average middle class and the Times. The Englishman whom the Times has misled for four years
concerning the American struggle has a fellow-feeling for his Times even in the mortification
of undeception; for this Englishman had never supposed that the Times, any more than himself,
was actuated by profound political morality in the side it espoused--rather by personal proclivities,
clamor, and "rule of thumb." And so, when the next great question arises, the Englishman may
again make the Times his crony and confabulator, just as he would more likely, through general
sympathy of notions and feelings, to take counsel with private acquaintances who had erred
with him in predicting success to the South, rather than with those who had dissented from
him in desire and expectation. Certainly, however, after all allowances made, the prestige
of the Times must have received a perceptible shock. The other daily papers which I have named,
along with the Times, as Southern partisans, represent divers sections of Liberalism; and there
must be more than I am cognizant of to say in detail of their views of various phases and at
various periods in the contest. The two Northerners, the Daily News and the Star, (the latter
being specially connected with Mr. John Bright,) represent the more advanced section of Liberalism:
no doubt their more thorough sympathy with the cause of the North was not unrelated to their
more thorough sympathy with the political constitution and influences of the American Republic;
and the same would be true of many private Northern adherents. In general, it may be said without
much inexactness that the Northern advocates in the press belonged either to this section of
Liberalism or to the "humanitarian" and "Evangelical" categories--those which distinctly uphold
Abolitionism, "Aborigines-Protection," etc.; while the Southerners were recruited from all
other classes,--Conservative, Liberal, and Liberal-Conservative. To this class one may perhaps
assign the last two of the daily papers, the "Post" and the "Pall-Mall Gazette," the latter
of which, however, was firmly on the side of the North; it only started during the final stages
of the war,--a time when (be it said without any derogation from the sincerity of the Pall-Mall
Gazette) some other papers also would probably, from the aspect of the times, have been better
inclined to take the same side, but for finding themselves already up to the armpits in Secessionism.
Passing now to the weekly papers, of which we can name only two or three, we find the Conservative
"Press," the Anglican-Clerical "Guardian" the "Examiner,"--a representative of a somewhat old-fashioned
form of Liberalism or "Whiggery,"--and the caustic, Liberal-Conservative "Saturday Review,"
(already mentioned,) on the side of the South; the advanced Liberal "Spectator" on that of
the North. It is a significant sign of the widespread Southernism in all grades of town-society,
especially the young and exuberant, the man-about-town class, the club-men, the jolly young
bachelors, the tavern-politicians, that all the "comic" papers were on that side,--not only
the now almost "legitimated" "Punch,"[C] a staid grimalkin which has outgrown the petulances
of kittenhood, or, as it has been well nicknamed erewhile, "The Jackall of the Times," but
equally the more free-and-easy "Fun," the plebeian "Comic News," the fashionable "Owl," and
the short-lived "Arrow." Among the magazines, the "Quarterly" and "Blackwood," with various
others, not all of them colleagues of these two in strict Conservatism, were for the South;
"Macmillan's Magazine," again an organ of the advanced and theoretic Liberalism, consistently
for the North, so far as it could be considered to express aggregate, and not merely individual,
views.

Of our leading writers, taken personally, Carlyle was of course against the North, and perhaps
one may say on the side of the South, as shown by his epigram, "The American Iliad in a Nutshell,"--one
of the few instances (if I may trust my own opinion concerning so great a genius) in which
even his immense power of humor and pointed illustration has fallen flat and let off a firework
which merely fizzed without flashing. Ruskin also would appear, from some occasional expressions
in what he has published, to have adopted the same view; as, indeed, he very generally does
"Carlylize" when Carlylean subject-matter engages his pen. For the North three of the most
distinguished and resolute writers have been Mr. John Stuart Mill and Professors Cairnes and
Goldwin Smith,--men on whose position and services in their own country to the Federal cause
it is assuredly not for me to dilate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having thus far, to the best of my ability, sketched the varieties of English opinion concerning
the great conflict, I must now endeavor to analyze somewhat more in detail the phases and motives
of that large and powerful section of it which was hostile to the North. Something has been
already said or implied on this matter as we proceeded; but it remains to be distinctly accounted
for. If, at the time when England bestowed cheap tears upon the sorrows of Uncle Tom, cheap
aristocratic homage upon Mrs. Stowe, and cheap or indeed gratis advice upon "American sisters,"
any American or Continental paper had prophesied (seeing farther into a millstone than Times
prophets during the war) that the issues between Slavery and Abolition would, in a very few
years, come to a tremendous crisis and not less tremendous arbitrament, and that the great
majority of the most trained and influential British opinion would then be found on the side
of the champions of Slavery, and against those of Abolition, the prediction would have been
universally treated by Englishmen as an emanation and a proof of the most grovelling malignity,
not less despicably silly than shamelessly calumnious. The time of trial came; and what no
one would have ventured to suggest as conceivable proved to be the actual and positive truth.
There must have been some deep-lying reason for this,--some reason which remained latent below
the surface as long as the United States were regarded as one integral community, but which
asserted itself as soon as Abolition and Slavery became identified, on the one hand, with national
indivisibility, and, on the other, with disruption. It seems impossible to doubt, that, had
the maintenance or the dissolution of slavery been the sole question, England would have continued
true, without any noteworthy defection, to her traditions and professions reprobating slavery;
and that, as she did not decisively so continue, other incentives must have intervened,--the
cause being in fact tried upon a different issue. Wherefore? It is to that question that I
now address myself.

Four motives appear to me to have been puissant in indisposing Englishmen to the Northerners.
I speak generally of all such British men and women as sided with the South, and whom I imagine
to have been not much less than half the whole number of those who took sides at all,--but
more especially of the class in which Southern sympathy was the very prevalent rule, and Northern
sympathy the scanty exception. This class comprehended the members of the leading professions,
army, navy, church, and bar, the writers upon events of the day in newspapers and elsewhere,
and, broadly speaking, the moneyed and leading social circles,--in short, "the upper classes";
and, to trust my own experience, not only these, but the great bulk of, at any rate, the professional
middle class as well. For instance, in the Government office to which I belong, comprising
some hundreds of employés, of whom a tolerable percentage are known to me, I can recollect
only one person, besides myself, whom I knew to be decidedly for the North,--and he, by the
by, is an Irishman. I have used above the term "the upper classes"; but I believe that the
aristocracy, properly so called, was by no means so Southern as the society next below it.
The first of the four motives in question is one in whose potency it gives me no pleasure to
believe, but it was, I think, by far the most powerful of all. The English,[D] as a nation,
dislike the Americans as a nation. This is a broad statement, which I make, because, as far
as my powers and opportunities of observation extend, I believe it to be true; but I am quite
prepared to find it contested, or summarily denied, by many of my countrymen,--the more, the
better. The dislike, be it greater or less in fact, appears to me to rest upon two main foundations.

In the first place, the Englishman is a born Conservative, or, to use the old phrase, a Tory.
Toryism is of two kinds,--political and social. The majority of the nation is certainly not,
at the present day, Tory in political preferences, though there is still a large leaven of
that feeling also. But very many persons who are political Liberals are social Tories: they
venerate the aristocracy; they batten daily upon the "Court Circular"; they cling to class
distinctions in theory, and still more in practice; they strain towards "good society" and
social conformity; their ideal is "respectability." Indeed, it appears to me that comparatively
very few English people are free from some tincture of Toryism in either political or social
sentiment, or both: one knows many Radicals, some Democrats, and even a few theoretic Republicans;
but it by no means follows that all or most of these are not Tories in grain, in some part
of their mental or personal anatomy. A total revulsion in public and popular feeling would
have to take place, before, for instance, such an institution as our House of Lords could be
in any practical danger: no such revulsion appears to be within the purview of any one now
living, even as a matter of opinion, much less of practical performance. I believe, that, if
universal suffrage were to become the law of the land to-morrow, not much difference would
ensue in the personnel or the tone of the House of Commons. It could hardly help ensuing, in
the long run, by the inevitable reaction Of institutions upon the people who exercise or undergo
them, and, with a changed House of Commons, much else would, no doubt, be changed; but there
seems strong reason to doubt whether a democratic constituency would, in the earlier stages,
produce a decisively democratic body of representatives. As regards English opinion upon the
American dispute, nothing was commoner than the remark, that the Southerners were "the better
gentlemen," or "represented the aristocratic element," and therefore commanded the speaker's
good wishes in their struggle; and this not necessarily from members of the landed gentry,
or from political anti-liberals, but equally from Liverpool merchants, or others of the middle
class. The remark may have been true or incorrect,--with that I have nothing to do; but it
was very generally accepted in England as accurate, and represented a large body of consequent
sympathy. In like manner, people were slow to believe in the possibility of Lincoln's competence
for his post; because he rose from the populace to his great elevation, they inferred that
he was a boor and a bungler, not (as might have seemed equally fair and rather more logical)
that he was a capable man; and, with a foregone conclusion, they were quite ready to construe
as blundering and grotesque that line of policy and conduct on his part, which, after a war
of no immoderate length, resulted in the surmounting of obstacles which they had dubbed insurmountable.

This innate British temper--aristocratic, conservative, or Tory, whichever one may term it--is
the first of the two foundations whereon English dislike of Americans appears to me to rest.
The second is a natural, though assuredly not a laudable feeling,--the residual soreness left
by our defeat in the old American War of Independence. Far be it from me to say that the English
nation at large, or Englishmen individually, brood gloomily over that defeat, or, with active
and conscious malignity, long for the desolation of their brothers in blood, language, and
a common history. To say that would be as strained and exaggerated, and as contrary to British
practicality and freedom from vengefulness, as to deny that some degree of soreness and distance
remains would seem to me uncandid. Englishmen are quite ready to believe, and to light upon
the casual evidences, that Frenchmen remember Waterloo, and would have no objection to wipe
out the reminiscence upon occasion; and Frenchmen and Americans may probably perceive that
like causes lead to like results in the Englishmen's own case, although the latter are less
quick-sighted regarding that. There is, I apprehend, quite enough soreness on the subject to
lead us to watch the career of the United States with jealousy, to take offence easily where
the relative interests of both countries are concerned, to put the less favorable of two possible
constructions upon American doings, and to feel as if, in any reverse which may happen to the
States, a certain long-standing score of our own, which we did not clear off quite satisfactorily
to ourselves, were in a round-about course of settlement.

It may perhaps be rejoined, "Even admitting what you have said as to British conservatism and
soreness, and consequent dislike of Americans, this furnishes no reason why the more influential
classes in England should have sided with Southern rather than Northern Americans." But I cannot
acknowledge the force of the rejoinder. The United States are, like any other nation, represented
by their Government, with which the Northern and Union section was in harmony, the Southern
and Disunion section in conflict; indeed, the very fact of secession divided the South from
the obnoxious entity, the United States, and so far ranged the South under the same banner
with all other antagonists of the States and their Government. The anti-American might with
perfect consistency plead for his Southernism, "Not that I disliked Carolina less, but that
I disliked Massachusetts more." Besides, there was a very prevalent impression that the Southern
Confederacy would be an essentially aristocratic commonwealth, as contrasted with the democratic
Northern Union,--an impression which the peculiar conditions of society in the South would
hardly have failed to justify to the full, had a cessation of the war allowed the Confederacy
to develop internally, according to its own bias. Rumors were even rife of a possible monarchy;
and leading Southerners were credited with the statement, that the best upshot of all, would
popular prejudice in the South but allow of it, would be to import a king from the English
royal family. Such rumors may have been fallacious, but they were not unacceptable to the British
Tory. On the other hand, the disruption of the United States by the secession of the South
was continually spoken of as "the breakdown of Democracy," or "the bubble of Democracy has
burst." The experiment of a great federative republic--or, one might say, of a great republic,
whether federative or otherwise--was held to have been tried, and to have broken down. The
fact that there would be two republics, jointly coextensive with the original one, went for
little, inasmuch as neither of the two could be as powerful as that one, and they would be
divided by conflicting policy and interests, even if not engaged in active hostilities. All
these considerations were not only powerful determinants to Southernism, but in themselves
balm to the conservative heart, and hardly less so to that overwhelming section of educated
liberal opinion in this country, which, genuinely liberal though its politics may be according
to the English standard, abhors all approach towards what is termed "Americanizing our institutions,"
and is fully as eager as the strictly conservative class to lay hold of any facts which may
make monarchy appear a stable, and republicanism an unstable system. It was but a very short
time before the fall of Richmond that I heard an Englishman, so far from anticipating the catastrophe
of the South, repeat the threadbare augury of the Times and other journals, that the remaining
Federal States would yet split up into a Western and an Eastern aggregation. The Cerberus of
Democracy was to start his three heads off on three different roads, by that process common
in many of the lower animal organisms, known to zoölogists as "fission"; and monarchists were
fain to augur that very little of either bite or bark would be thereafter native to his jaws.

Such are the grounds on which I think that British conservatism and soreness produce a widely
diffused feeling of national dislike to Americans, and that this dislike, beyond all other
motives, indisposed multitudes to the Northern cause. Three other motives conducing to the
same result remain to be analyzed.

Many Englishmen believe--as will have been abundantly apparent to Americans during the vicissitudes
of the last few years--that the greatness of the United States involves a serious danger to
England, whether in the projects upon Canada which are attributed to the States, or in other
directions, such as that of naval power. It is no business of mine to discuss the validity
of this belief, but simply to record it as one important motive why the success of the Federal
Government was not desired. It is a substantial and a reasoned motive; and very few persons,
whether in England or out of it, are so cosmopolite or calm-minded as to assume that the growth
and aggrandizement of a foreign power, in its proportional relation to one's own nation, are
matter for brotherly satisfaction and congratulation without arrière pensée, provided always
that growth proceeds from internal conditions honorable to the foreigner, and not in themselves
derogatory or offensive to the home-power. Few will heartily say, "Let our neighbors and competitors
develop to their uttermost, and welcome; be it our sole care that we also develop to our uttermost.
They shall run us as close as they like, and shall find that we do not mean to be run down."
To say this might be an act of national Christianity; but it is not one which has ever been
in very active exercise or popular repute. It may be observed, too, that, besides all other
causes of national vigilance or jealousy, the Trent affair, at an early date in the war, brought
the whole practical question very forcibly home to us; and though Englishmen almost unanimously,
within the limits of my reading and hearing, protested that a rupture with the United States
would be formidable and disabling only to that belligerent, (a point on which I ventured to
fancy that British self-confidence might not have fathomed all the possibilities of Providence,)
the crisis did not the less tend to rouse all our defensive and some of our aggressive instincts,
and to weight the scales of public feeling against the North. The question of perils from American
power then passed out of the region of mere theory, and became practical and imminent. The
danger itself dispersed, indeed, as suddenly as it had come, but the impression remained.

Another motive for siding against the North was the abstract hatred of war, which has grown
to be a very widespread and genuine feeling in England,--and, in my humble opinion, a most
befitting and praiseworthy one,--active whenever we are in the position of outsiders, and overborne
only when our own passions and real or supposed interests are involved. The great majority
of the nation plunged headlong into the Russian War, and the grip of the British bull-dog's
teeth upon his opponent was not easily loosed, even when good cause for loosing it appeared.
We had no more notion of retiring from India in 1857, when the Indian mutineers used some cogency
of material argument to make us do so, than we should have of retiring from Ireland, if a new
Irish rebellion occurred; but when the question was merely that of breaking up a vast republic
beyond the Atlantic in the interests of negro slavery, the horrors and wickedness of war were
obvious and impressive to us. That historical phrase of General Scott's, "Wayward sisters,
go in peace!" was very generally, and I think rightly, regarded as expressing one of the points
of view which might with honor, caution, and consistency have been acted upon, when the tremendous
decision between peace and war had to be made. The opposite point of view was also tenable:
it was adopted with overwhelming impulse by the Federal Government and the loyal States; and,
having been carried out to a triumphant conclusion, may be admitted to have been the wisest
and most patriotic, even by persons who (and I will not deny having been one of them from time
to time during the war) were induced to doubt whether any cause, however equitable, and any
object, however righteous and great, sufficed to justify the frightful devastation and carnage
which their prosecution involved. If such doubts beset the adherents of the North, of course
the view of the matter entertained by opponents of war in the abstract, who were also on the
side of the South, was incomparably stronger in reprobation of this particular war. True, it
might be urged, that the South, and not the North, both furnished the casus belli, and began
the actual hostilities by the assault upon Fort Sumter; but it was not the cue of Southern
partisans to admit that this internal action of certain sovereign States of the Union was of
a nature to justify coercive war on the part of the North, while the fact that it rested with
the North to decline or accept the challenge was patent to the friends of both belligerents.
Thus, when the enormous magnitude and horrors of the war startled English onlookers, the odium,
in the opinion of many, attached to the North: a view which, though it might not stand the
test of strict investigation, or of a severe discussion of principles and provocations, was
superficially maintainable, and not to be anyhow argued out of all plausibility. "The South
is defensive, and the North aggressive," one disputant might say. "Yes," would be the reply,
"at this stage of the contest; but ascend a step higher, and it is the South which made an
aggression on the Union, and the North is defending that." "Still, the North might have abstained
from defending it, and might have said, 'Wayward sisters, go in peace!'" "It might; but it
saw good reason for saying the reverse." "Still, it might." This seems a fair enough statement
of the case between North and South, so far as the mere question of fact as to responsibility
for the war is concerned. Beyond this, one must go to the larger questions, whether any causes
justify war, and whether this individual cause was one of them,--questions, as I have said,
to which the English mind tends to return a negative answer, save when England herself is affected.
The very men who could least see a pretext for a war by the Federal people against the seceded
States were those who would most eagerly have rushed into a war to sustain the British claim
in the Trent affair.

Lastly, there was a generous and an especially English motive for anti-Northern partisanship,--the
feeling of sympathy with the weaker side, which was unmistakably the Southern; a generous motive,
but not to be trusted too far in deciding between any two litigants. Besides the mere inferiority
of strength, the splendid valor and enterprising spirit of the South stirred the British heart
and blood, and commanded numberless good wishes; while, for some time after the first battle
of Bull Run, a prejudice, not readily amenable to reasoning, clung around the Northern arms,
and impeded many from doing full relative justice to the military temper and prowess of the
Unionists. There was, moreover, a very widespread impression that the North was carrying on
the war chiefly by means of mercenaries,--Germans, Irishmen, and "the offscourings of Europe,"
as the uncomplimentary phrase ran,--who enlisted for the sake of the bounty, and were equally
prompt at exhibiting their indifferentism to the grave issues at stake and their blackguardism
in dealing with the hostile populations. The Southerners, on the contrary, figured as a chivalrous
territorial body driven to fight "for their hearths and homes," (I have even seen "their altars"
in print,) waging a noble defensive war against preconcerted spoliation and despotism. To this
moment, many people have phrases of the above sort upon their lips.

Then there were certain personal feelings which told powerfully in the same direction,--personal
partly to the English as a nation, and partly to the more prominent actors in the war. The
contrast between the American colonies of Great Britain throwing off their allegiance to the
Old Country because they saw fit to do so for their own interests, and the government of the
Federation of these same ex-colonies insisting that some of them, which in their turn see fit
to break loose from the Federal pact, shall not do so, under the alternative of war and the
pains of treason,--this contrast is assuredly a glaring one; many people considered that it
amounted to a positive anomaly,--not a few to a barefaced act of tyrannic apostasy. The personal
feeling of the English people, their national amour propre, conspired to lead towards this
harshest construction of the facts: it was so tempting to convict our old adversaries out of
their own mouths, and make them, by the logic of events, read out either their recantation
of the Colonial Revolution, or their self-condemnation for the Anti-Secession War. I have already
explained to what extent these views appear to me to be tenable, and where their weak point
lies: that both the insurrection of the colonies against England, and that of the South against
the Federation,--both the repressive measures of England against the colonies, and of the Federation
against the South,--were in themselves founded on an indefeasible right, and abstractly defensible;
and that the "casting vote," (so to speak,) in both cases, depends, not upon any wordy denial
of the right, but upon a thorough estimate of all the attendant conditions, and prominently
of the "mights of man."

So far for one phase of the personal question. The other phase pertained to the character and
the deeds of some leading actors in the war-drama. To most English apprehensions, the hero
of the war, from an early stage of it up to his tragic death, was Stonewall Jackson, whose
place was afterwards taken, in popular esteem, though not in coequal enthusiasm, by General
Lee, both of them Southerners; while the bête noire of the story was General Butler, the Northerner.
It would be futile to expound the reasons of this, patent as they are to everybody; or to inquire
what deductions from the renown of Jackson and Lee, or what allowances for the position of
Butler, a judicial review of the whole case would proclaim to be equitable. I will only remark
here, that, as far as my observation extended, no one complained of Jackson, when it transpired
that he had been resolutely in favor of refusing all quarter to Northern soldiers: a severity,
not to say barbarism, which, be it right or wrong in itself, would undoubtedly have appeared
to many atrocious enough, had it been the doctrine of any Northern general, and beside which
the sternest measures of Butler look lax and conciliatory. In like manner, the terrible treatment
of Northern prisoners, and the most savage act of war in the whole contest, the massacre at
Fort Pillow,[E] seemed hardly to graze that delicate susceptibility of Southern partisans which
was lashed into a white rage by a few words of printed proclamation from Butler's hand; the
facts were either ignored, or dismissed as of secondary importance in the general conduct of
the war. Of two other prime actors in the contest, President Davis and President Lincoln, the
popular judgment seemed equally arbitrary. Of course each had his admirers among professed
Southern or Northern adherents: it is not in that aspect that I speak of them for the moment,
but rather as figures in the popular imagination. As such, Davis was credited with all the
qualities of a powerful statesman; while Lincoln showed as a not ill-meaning, but grotesquely
inadequate and misplaced oddity, a sort of mere accident of mob-favor, and made abundant mirth
for the mirthful: how justly the event has perhaps demonstrated. Among the Northern generals,
I think that the only one who became to some extent generally popular, though bitterly denounced
in adverse quarters, was Sherman,--not only for the splendor and originality of his practical
achievements, but for a certain incisive and peremptory realism in his administrative proceedings,
which almost marked him with a touch of grim humor.

I have thus sought to account for the anti-Northern bias in a large number of my countrymen,
by their dislike of the American nation and polity, arising partly from the remains of soreness
left by past defeat,--by the jealousy of American power, as a practical danger,--by the hatred
of war,--and by the sympathy for the gallant weaker combatant. I am compelled reluctantly to
add, that the particular operation of these various influences reflects no credit upon British
consistency of farsightedness. The conservative temper which stiffens Englishmen towards America
was the very same which, in the interests of the moment, led them to justify violent revolutionary
measures, and armed resistance to the constitutional and national majority. The greater the
conservative, the greater the advocate of insurrection. In like manner, the English detestation
of slavery was overwhelmed by sympathy for an "oppressed" community, whose oppression (apart
from the much-paraded tariff and other such questions) consisted in a definite intimation that
they would not henceforward be allowed to enlarge the area of slavery, and in a suspicion present
to their own minds that even the existing area of that cherished institution would be narrowed,
and finally reduced to nought,--expunged "as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it and turning it
upside down." The friends among us of constitutional liberty and of legality, the enemies of
anarchy, the unseduced execrators of slavery, the upholders of the tie of brotherhood across
the Atlantic, may well look back with shame to the time--and it was no matter of days or weeks,
but a period of about four years together--when the loudest and most accepted voices in England
exulted over the now ludicrously delusive proposition that the United States were a burst bubble,
and slavery the irremovable corner-stone of an empire. It may be a lesson to nations against
the indulgence in rancor, the abnegation of the national conscience, and the dear delight of
prophesying one's own likings.

The collapse of the South came at last; and nearly at the same moment came the murder of a
man whose modesty, integrity, firmness, single-minded persistency, unresentfulness, and substantial
truth of judgment have been invested by his fate with an almost sacred depth of interest and
significance,--President Lincoln. Amid the many momentous bearings of these events, it is for
me to note only one of comparative unimportance,--the effect which they produced upon English
public opinion. There was, I think, a certain good-fortune for Southern sympathizers, in the
fact that the announcement of Lincoln's death almost synchronized with that of the surrender
of the Confederate armies. After so many confident anticipations and loud predictions of a
Southern triumph, so many denunciations of the policy, acts, and leaders of the North, these
sympathizers found themselves in a sort of cul-de-sac when Richmond had been taken. Lee had
yielded, Johnston was yielding, and the very same "butcher" Grant, "ruthless" Sherman, and
"Yahoo" Lincoln, whose savageries and imbecilities had been the theme of annual moral-pointing,
were reading the world a lesson of moderation and self-forgetfulness in victory, such as almost
seemed to shrink from the plentitude of a triumph which was a humiliation to some of their
countrymen. The sympathizers found that they were and had long been of the party in evil odor
with that modern "Providence which sides with the stronger battalions," not to speak of the
older "God of Battles." They were pulled up sharp in the direction they had been going in,
and the alternative of turning right round and retracing their steps was a very awkward and
unwelcome one. The assassination of Lincoln came to their relief. They could join, without
insincerity, in the burst of public feeling which that terrible deed excited; could merge their
protests against Lincoln in the established unwillingness to say evil of the dead; could give
momentary pause to national and political considerations, beside the grave of one preëminent
citizen; and could start afresh afterwards, with a new situation, and a new chief figure in
it to contemplate. President Johnson had taken the place of President Lincoln, and had, at
the hands of many of Lincoln's vituperators, succeeded to an inheritance of the abuse lavished
upon him. Neither caution nor moderation had been learned by some, suitable as were the circumstances
of Lincoln's death for teaching the lesson. Of late, however, I have observed symptoms of a
decided change in this respect: the policy of President Johnson being recognized as broad,
generous, resolute, and auspicious of the best results. I think this feeling, and a general
sentiment of respect and good-will for the United States, promise to grow rapidly and powerfully
among my countrymen,--who, true once again to their conservative instincts, will look with
a certain regard upon a nation which can show those elements of solidity and "respectability,"
a tremendous past war, and a heavy national debt, with augmented authority in the central government.
John Bull's ill-humor against the "Yankees" has been in vigorous exercise these four years,
and has assumed fair latitude for growling itself out: it has been palpably wrong in some of
its inferences; for the bubble of Democracy has not burst, nor the Republic been split up into
two or three federations, nor the abolition of slavery been a mere pretext and hypocrisy. Englishmen,
with their practical turn, and candid frankness towards those to whom they have done less than
right, may be expected in the future to look upon the States with a degree of confidence and
cordiality long deplorably absent. The events of the war have, in the long run, compelled even
the hostile party to respect the Unionists and their government: the plague of slavery is fast
going, and, with its disappearance, will relieve Englishmen from either (as they used to do)
reprobating the Americans as abettors of and trucklers to the barbaric institution, or else
(as they have been doing of late) from inventing half-sincere excuses for that same institution,
to subserve partisan feelings. As matters stand at present in the United States, there appears
to be only one contingency which would again rouse into a fierce flame the glowing embers of
pro-Southern sentiment among Englishmen, and restore Southerners to the position of angels
of light, and Northerners to that of angels of darkness, in British imaginations. This contingency
is harshness in the treatment and trial of ex-President Davis, and more especially his execution
as a traitor. Southern sympathizers declare that such a proceeding would be an abominable crime:
the steadiest, most thorough, and most confiding adherents of the North believe, that, whatever
else it might be, it would, at any rate, be most deplorable,--an ugly blight-spot upon laurels
won arduously and gloriously, and as yet nobly worn.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have now, in however cursory or limping a mode, gone over the ground I proposed to cover.
The main conclusion of all may be summarized in the briefest terms thus. A slight majority
of the whole British nation probably sided with the North, and that chiefly on anti-slavery
grounds: a great majority of the more influential classes, certainly, sided with the South,
and that chiefly on general grounds of antagonism to the United States. For anything I have
said which may possibly sound egotistic or intrusive,--still more for anything erroneous or
unfair in my statements or point of view,--I must commit myself to the candid construction
of my reader, be he American or English, be he on the same side of the question as myself,
or on the opposite one.

W. M. ROSETTI.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote A: I remember meeting at dinner, just about this time, a near relative of the American
ambassador, Mr. Adams. I expressed myself as anxious, but barely able, to believe that the
Northerners would yet gain the day, and asked whether he candidly supposed they would. His
emphatic "Certainly" surprised me at the time, and remained in my mind as an almost sublime
instance of a true citizen's inability to "despair of the Republic." It soon turned out to
be a deserved rebuke to any who desponded, along with myself, and finally prophetic. No doubt
there were thousands of Americans who could, even in those dark days, with equal conviction
have pronounced that "Certainly," and whose very certainty was the one thing needed and able
to make the thing certain indeed.]

[Footnote B: As some time may have elapsed, and some change in the state of facts occurred,
before this article appears in print, I add that it was completed early in October.]

[Footnote C: Probably many of my American readers are aware that Punch, after doing its little
best to make Lincoln ridiculous (which perhaps history will pronounce no easy job) throughout
his administration, recanted as soon as he had been murdered, and made the amende honorable
in terms as handsome as the case admitted of. It is one more instance of the mania which some
writers have for saying ill-natured and unfair things, which they themselves must know to be
not the real opinion which they would profess under circumstances when their amour propre becomes
enlisted on the same side as candor.]

[Footnote D: Of course I very often employ the term "English," as meaning "the natives of all
or any parts of the United Kingdom," without making nice distinctions between English, Scotch,
and Irish. Such is the case here. As a matter of fact, however, I presume that America and
the Federal Government have found and find somewhat more sympathy in Scotland and Ireland than
in England: the Scotch, spite of their "clannish" tendencies, have a certain democratic bias
as well (chiefly, perhaps, evidenced and fostered by their religious organization); and the
Irish, disaffected as they are towards England having so numerous and so close ties, through
the emigration movement, with the United States.]

[Footnote E: For American readers any confirmatory testimony as to this massacre is no doubt
superfluous. But, in case these pages should obtain any English readers, I may perhaps be allowed
to say that the fact of the massacre of the vanquished colored garrison has been attested to
me. vivâ voce, by a Confederate, and still Secessionist, army surgeon, who witnessed it with
his own eyes.]

TWO PICTURES.

    Behind the wild grape's tangled screen,
    Beholding them, himself unseen,
      A young man, straying near,
      The maidens chanced to hear.

    He saw the pride of beauty born,
    He heard the red lips' words of scorn;
      And, like a silver bell,
      That sweet voice answering well.

    "Why trust," he said, "my foolish eyes?
    My ear has pierced the fair disguise;
      Who seeks my gold, not me,
      My bride shall never be."

THE FREEDMAN'S STORY.

IN TWO PARTS.

PART I.

The manuscript of the following pages has been handed to me with the request that I would revise
it for publication, or weave its facts into a story which should show the fitness of the Southern
black for the exercise of the right of suffrage.

It is written in a fair, legible hand; its words are correctly spelled; its facts are clearly
stated, and--in most instances--its sentences are properly constructed. Therefore it needs
no revision. On reading it over carefully, I also discover that it is in itself a stronger
argument for the manhood of the negro than any which could be adduced by one not himself a
freedman; for it is the argument of facts, and facts are the most powerful logic. Therefore,
if I were to imbed these facts in the mud of fiction, I should simply oblige the reader to
dredge for the oyster, which in this narrative he has without the trouble of dredging, fresh
and juicy as it came from the hand of Nature,--or rather, from the hand of one of Nature's
noblemen,--and who, until he was thirty years of age, had never put two letters together.

The narrative is a plain and unpretending account of the life of a man whose own right arm--to
use his own expression--won his rights as a freeman. It is written with the utmost simplicity,
and has about it the verisimilitude which belongs to truth, and to truth only when told by
one who has been a doer of the deeds and an actor in the scenes which he describes. It has
the further rare merit of being written by one of the "despised race"; for none but a negro
can fully and correctly depict negro life and character.

General Thomas--a Southern man, and a friend of the Southern negro--was once in conversation
with a gentleman who has attained some reputation as a delineator of the black man, when a
long, lean, "poor white man," then a scout in the Union army, approached the latter, and, giving
his shoulder a familiar slap, accosted him with,--

"How are you, ole feller?"

The gentleman turned about, and forgetting, in his joy at meeting an old friend, the presence
of this most dignified of our military men, responded to the salutation of the scout in an
equally familiar and boisterous manner. General Thomas "smiled wickedly," and quietly remarked,--

"You seem to know each other."

"Know him!" exclaimed the scout. "Why, Gin'ral, I ha'n't seed him fur fourteen year; but I
sh'u'd know him, ef his face war as black as it war one night when we went ter a nigger shindy
tergether!"

The gentleman colored up to the roots of his hair, and stammered out,--

"That was in my boy days, General, when I was sowing my wild oats."

"Don't apologize, Sir," answered the General, "don't apologize; for I see that to your youthful
habit of going to negro shindies we owe your truthful pictures of negro life."

And the General was right. Every man and woman who has essayed to depict the slave character
has miserably failed, unless inoculated with the genuine spirit of the negro; and even those
who have succeeded best have done only moderately well, because they have not had the negro
nature. It is reserved to some black Shakspeare or Dickens to lay open the wonderful humor,
pathos, poetry, and power which slumber in the negro's soul, and which now and then flash out
like the fire from a thunder-cloud.

I do not mean to say that this black prophet has come in this narrative. He has not. This man
is a doer, not a writer; though he gives us--particularly in the second part--touches of Nature,
and little bits of description, which are perfectly inimitable. The prophet is still to come;
and he will come. God never gives great events without great historians; and for all the patience
and valor and heroic fortitude and self-sacrifice and long-suffering of the black man in this
war, there will come a singer--and a black singer--who shall set his deeds to a music that
will thrill the nations.

But I am holding the reader at the threshold.

The author of this narrative--of every line in it--is William Parker. He was an escaped slave,
and the principal actor in the Christiana riot,--an occurrence which cost the Government of
the United States fifty thousand dollars, embittered the relations of two "Sovereign States,"
aroused the North to the danger of the Fugitive-Slave Law, and, more than any other event,
except the raid of John Brown, helped to precipitate the two sections into the mighty conflict
which has just been decided on the battle-field.

Surely the man who aided towards such results must be a man, even if his complexion be that
of the ace of spades; and what he says in relation to the events in which he was an actor,
even if it have no romantic interest,--which, however, it has to an eminent degree,--must be
an important contribution to the history of the time.

With these few remarks, I submit the evidence which he gives of the manhood of his race to
that impartial grand-jury, the American people. E. K.

EARLY PLANTATION LIFE.

I was born opposite to Queen Anne, in Anne Arundel County, in the State of Maryland, on a plantation
called Rowdown. My master was Major William Brogdon, one of the wealthy men of that region.
He had two sons,--William, a doctor, and David, who held some office at Annapolis, and for
some years was a member of the Legislature.

My old master died when I was very young; so I know little about him, except from statements
received from my fellow-slaves, or casual remarks made in my hearing from time to time by white
persons. From those I conclude that he was in no way peculiar, but should be classed with those
slaveholders who are not remarkable either for the severity or the indulgence they extend to
their people.

My mother, who was named Louisa Simms, died when I was very young; and to my grandmother I
am indebted for the very little kindness I received in my early childhood; and this kindness
could only be shown me at long intervals, and in a hurried way, as I shall presently show.

Like every Southern plantation of respectable extent and pretensions, our place had what is
called the "Quarter," or place where the slaves of both sexes are lodged and fed. With us the
Quarter was composed of a number of low buildings, with an additional building for single people
and such of the children as were either orphans or had parents sold away or otherwise disposed
of. This building was a hundred feet long by thirty wide, and had a large fireplace at either
end, and small rooms arranged along the sides. In these rooms the children were huddled from
day to day, the smaller and weaker subject to the whims and caprices of the larger and stronger.
The largest children would always seize upon the warmest and best places, and say to us who
were smaller, "Stand back, little chap, out of my way"; and we had to stand back or get a thrashing.

When my grandmother, who was cook at the "great house," came to look after me, she always brought
me a morsel privately; and at such times I was entirely free from annoyance by the older ones.
But as she could visit me only once in twenty-four hours, my juvenile days enjoyed but little
rest from my domineering superiors in years and strength.

When my grandmother would inquire of the others how her "little boy" was getting on, they would
tell her that I was doing well, and kindly invite me to the fire to warm myself. I was afraid
to complain to her of their treatment, as, for so doing, they would have beaten me, after she
had gone to the "great house" again. I was thus compelled to submit to their misrepresentation,
as well as to their abuse and indifference, until I grew older, when, by fighting first with
one and then with another, I became "too many" for them, and could have a seat at the fire
as well as the best. This experience of my boyhood has since been repeated in my manhood. My
rights at the fireplace were won by my child-fists; my rights as a freeman were, under God,
secured by my own right arm.

Old master had seventy slaves, mostly field-hands. My mother was a field-hand. He finally died;
but after that everything went on as usual for about six years, at the end of which time the
brothers, David and William, divided the land and the slaves. Then, with many others, including
my brother and uncle, it fell to my lot to go with Master David, who built a house on the southeast
part of the farm and called it Nearo.

Over the hands at Nearo an overseer name Robert Brown was placed; but as he was liked by neither
master nor slaves, he was soon discharged. The following circumstance led to his dismissal
sooner, perhaps, than it would otherwise have happened.

While master was at Annapolis, my mistress, who was hard to please, fell out with one of the
house-servants, and sent for Mr. Brown to come and whip her. When he came, the girl refused
to be whipped, which angered Brown, and he beat her so badly that she was nearly killed before
she gave up. When Master David came home, and saw the girl's condition, he became very angry,
and turned Brown away at once.

Master David owned a colored man named Bob Wallace. He was a trusty man; and as he understood
farming thoroughly, he was installed foreman in place of Brown. Everything went on very well
for a while under Wallace, and the slaves were as contented as it is possible for slaves to be.

Neither of our young masters would allow his hands to be beaten or abused, as many slaveholders
would; but every year they sold one or more of them,--sometimes as many as six or seven at
a time. One morning word was brought to the Quarter that we should not work that day, but group
to the "great house." As we were about obeying the summons, a number of strange white men rode
up to the mansion. They were Negro-traders. Taking alarm, I ran away to the woods with a boy
of about my own age, name Levi Storax; and there we remained until the selections for the sale
were made, and the traders drove away. It was a serious time while they remained. Men, women,
and children, all were crying, and general confusion prevailed. For years they had associated
together in their rude way,--the old counseling the young, recounting their experience, and
sympathizing in their trials; and now, without a word of warning, and for no fault of their
own, parents and children, husbands and wives, brothers and sisters, were separated to meet
no more on earth. A slave sale of this sort is always as solemn as a funeral, and partakes
of its nature in one important particular,--the meeting no more in the flesh.

Levi and I climbed a pine-tree, when we got to the woods, and had this conversation together.

"Le," I said to him, "our turn will come next; let us run away, and not be sold like the rest."

"If we can only get clear this time," replied Le, "may-be they won't sell us. I will go to
Master William, and ask him not to do it."

"What will you get by going to Master William?" I asked him. "If we see him, and ask him not
to sell us, he will do as he pleases. For my part, I think the best thing is to run away to
the Free States."

"But," replied Levi, "see how many start for the Free States, and are brought back, and sold
away down South. We could not be safe this side of Canada, and we should freeze to death before
we got there."

So ended our conversation. I must have been about ten or eleven years old then; yet, young
as I was, I had heard of Canada as the land far away in the North, where the runaway was safe
from pursuit; but, to my imagination, it was a vast and cheerless waste of ice and snow. So
the reader can readily conceive of the effect of Levi's remarks. They were a damper upon our
flight for the time being.

When night came, Levi wanted to go home and see if they had sold his mother; but I did not
care about going back, as I had no mother to sell. How desolate I was! No home, no protector,
no mother, no attachments. As we turned our faces toward the Quarter,--where we might at any
moment be sold to satisfy a debt or replenish a failing purse,--I felt myself to be what I
really was, a poor, friendless slave-boy. Levi was equally sad. His mother was not sold, but
she could afford him no protection.

To the question, "Where had we been?" we answered, "Walking around." Then followed inquiries
and replies as to who were sold, who remained, and what transpired at the sale.

Said Levi,--

"Mother, were you sold?"

"No, child; but a good many were sold; among them, your Uncles Anthony and Dennis."

I said,--

"Aunt Ruthy, did they sell Uncle Sammy?"

"No, child."

"Where, then, is Uncle Sammy?"

I thought, if I could be with Uncle Sammy, may-be I would be safe. My Aunt Rachel, and her
two children, Jacob and Priscilla, were among the sold, who altogether comprised a large number
of the servants.

The apologist for slavery at the North, and the owner of his fellow-man at the South, have
steadily denied that the separation of families, except for punishment, was perpetrated by
Southern masters; but my experience of slavery was, that separation by sale was a part of the
system. Not only was it resorted to by severe masters, but, as in my own case, by those generally
regarded as mild. No punishment was so much dreaded by the refractory slave as selling. The
atrocities known to be committed on plantations in the Far South, tidings of which reached
the slave's ears in various ways, his utter helplessness upon the best farms and under the
most humane masters and overseers, in Maryland and other Northern Slave States, together with
the impression that the journey was of great extent, and comfortless even to a slave, all combined
to make a voyage down the river or down South an era in the life of the poor slave to which
he looked forward with the most intense and bitter apprehension and anxiety.

This slave sale was the first I had ever seen. The next did not occur until I was thirteen
years old; but every year, during the interval, one or more poor souls were disposed of privately.

Levi, my comrade, was one of those sold in this interval. Well may the good John Wesley speak
of slavery as the sum of all villanies; for no resort is too despicable, no subterfuge too
vile, for its supporters. Is a slave intractable, the most wicked punishment is not too severe;
is he timid, obedient, attached to his birthplace and kindred, no lie is so base that it may
not be used to entrap him into a change of place or of owners. Levi was made the victim of
a stratagem so peculiarly Southern, and so thoroughly the outgrowth of an institution which
holds the bodies and souls of men as of no more account, for all moral purposes, than the unreasoning
brutes, that I cannot refrain from relating it. He was a likely lad, and, to all appearance,
fully in the confidence of his master. Prompt and obedient, he seemed to some of us to enjoy
high favor at the "great house." One morning he was told to take a letter to Mr. Henry Hall,
an acquaintance of the family; and it being a part of his usual employment to bring and carry
such missives, off he started, in blind confidence, to learn at the end of his journey that
he had parted with parents, friends, and all, to find in Mr. Hall a new master. Thus, in a
moment, his dearest ties were severed.

I met him about two months afterwards at the Cross-Road Meeting-House, on West River; and,
after mutual recognition, I said to him,--

"Levi, why don't you come home?"

"I am at home," said he; "I was sold by Master William to Mr. Henry Hall."

He then told me about the deception practised upon him. I thought that a suitable opportunity
to remind him of our conversation when up the pine-tree, years before, and said,--

"You told me, that, if you could escape the big sale, Master William would not sell you. Now
you see how it was: the big sale was over, and yet you were sold to a worse master than you
had before. I told you this would be so. The next time I hear from you, you will be sold again.
Master Mack will be selling me one of these days, no doubt; but if he does, he will have to
do it running."

Here ended our conversation and our association, as it was not in our power to meet afterward.

The neighbors generally called Master David, Mack, which was one of his Christian names; and
the slaves called him Master Mack; so the reader will understand, that, whenever that name
occurs, Master David is meant.

After the sale of Levi, I became greatly attached to Alexander Brown, another slave. Though
not permitted to learn to read and write, and kept in profound ignorance of everything, save
what belonged strictly to our plantation duties, we were not without crude perceptions of the
dignity and independence belonging to freedom; and often, when out of hearing of the white
people, or certain ones among our fellow-servants, Alexander and I would talk the subject over
in our simple way.

Master Mack had a very likely young house-servant named Ann. She was between sixteen and eighteen
years old; every one praised her intelligence and industry; but these commendable characteristics
did not save her. She was sold next after Levi. Master told the foreman, Bob Wallace, to go
to Annapolis, and take Ann with him. When Wallace told me he was going, I had a presentiment
that the purpose was to sell the girl, and I told him so; but, man as he was, he had no fear
about it. Wallace and Ann started for the city on horseback, and journeyed along pleasantly
until they reached the town and were near the market-place, when a man came up to them, took
Ann off the horse without ceremony, and put her into jail. Wallace, not suspecting the manoeuvre,
attacked the man, and came well-nigh getting into difficulty. When Wallace returned, he said
to Master Mack, "Why did you not tell me that Ann was sold, and not have me fighting for her?
They might have put me in jail." But his master did not appear to hear him.

Poor Uncle Henry followed Ann. His wife lived in Annapolis, and belonged to a Mr. George McNear,
residing there. Uncle Henry went one Saturday night to see her, when Master William put him
into jail for sale; and that was the last we saw or heard of him.

Alex Brown's mother followed next. After the poor woman was gone, I said to Alex,--

"Now that your mother has been sold, it is time that you and I studied out a plan to run away
and be free."

But so thoroughly had his humanity been crushed by the foul spirit of Slavery, so apathetic
had he--though in the vigor of youth--become from long oppression, that he would not agree
to my suggestion.

"No," he said, "'t is no use for you and I to run away. It is too far to the Free States. We
could not get there. They would take us up and sell us; so we had better not go. Master Mack
can't sell any more of his hands; there are no more than can carry on his farm."

"Very well," said I, "trust to that, and you will see what will come of it."

After that I said no more to him, but determined to be free. My brother Charles was of like
mind; but we kept our thoughts to ourselves. How old I was then I do not know; but from what
the neighbors told me, I must have been about seventeen. Slaveholders are particular to keep
the pedigree and age of favorite horses and dogs, but are quite indifferent about the age of
their servants, until they want to purchase. Then they are careful to select young persons,
though not one in twenty can tell year, month, or day. Speaking of births,--it is the time
of "corn-planting," "corn-husking," "Christmas," "New Year," "Easter," "the Fourth of July,"
or some similar indefinite date. My own time of birth was no more exact; so that to this day
I am uncertain how old I am.

About the time of the conversation last narrated, Jefferson Dorsey, a planter near by, had
a butchering. One of Dorsey's men met me, and said that they wanted more help, and that Master
Mack said I might go and lend a hand. Thinking that he spoke truth, I did not ask permission,
but went, and stayed until noon. I soon learned, however, that the man had deceived me.

Master Mack, when told by some of the people where I was, sent my brother John after me, with
the threat of a whipping. On reaching home, the women also told me that master would almost
kill me. This excited me greatly, and I replied,--

"Master Mack is 'most done whipping me."

When I went in to see him, I saw plainly enough that his face foretold a storm.

"Boy," said he, "yoke up the oxen, and haul a load of wood."

I went at once, and did the task; but, to my dismay, there he stood at the stable. I had to
drive near to him; and as he evidently intended to catch me, I was all vigilance.

"When you unload that wood, come to me, Sir," he said.

I made no reply, but unloaded the wood, left the oxen standing, and stole away to Dorsey's,
where I staid until the next day. Then I prevailed upon Samuel Dorsey to go home with me. Master
Mack told me to go to my work, and he would forgive me; but the next time he would pay me for
"the new and the old." To work I went; but I determined not to be paid for "the new and the old."

This all occurred in the month of May. Everything went on well until June, when the long-sought-for
opportunity presented itself. I had been making preparations to leave ever since Master Mack
had threatened me; yet I did not like to go without first having a difficulty with him. Much
as I disliked my condition, I was ignorant enough to think that something besides the fact
that I was a slave was necessary to exonerate me from blame in running away. A cross word,
a blow, a good fright, anything, would do, it mattered not whence nor how it came. I told my
brother Charles, who shared my confidence, to be ready; for the time was at hand when we should
leave Old Maryland forever. I was only waiting for the first crooked word from my master.

A few days afterwards all hands were ordered to the fields to work; but I stayed behind, lurking
about the house. I was tired of working without pay. Master Mack saw me, and wanted to know
why I did not go out. I answered, that it was raining, that I was tired, and did not want to
work. He then picked up a stick used for an ox-gad, and said, if I did not go to work, he would
whip me as sure as there was a God in heaven. Then he struck at me; but I caught the stick,
and we grappled, and handled each other roughly for a time, when he called for assistance.
He was badly hurt. I let go my hold, bade him good-bye, and ran for the woods. As I went by
the field, I beckoned to my brother, who left work, and joined me at a rapid pace.

I was now at the beginning of a new and important era in my life. Although upon the threshold
of manhood, I had, until the relation with my master was sundered, only dim perceptions of
the responsibilities of a more independent position. I longed to cast off the chains of servitude,
because they chafed my free spirit, and because I had a notion that my position was founded
in injustice; but it has only been since a struggle of many years, and, indeed, since I settled
upon British soil, that I have realized fully the grandeur of my position as a free man.

One fact, when I was a slave, often filled me with indignation. There were many poor white
lads of about my own age, belonging to families scattered around, who were as poor in personal
effects as we were; and yet, though our companions, (when we chose to tolerate them,) they
did not have to be controlled by a master, to go and come at his command, to be sold for his
debts, or whenever he wanted extra pocket-money. The preachers of a slave-trading gospel frequently
told us, in their sermons, that we should be "good boys," and not break into master's hen-roost,
nor steal his bacon; but they never told this to these poor white people, although they knew
very well that they encouraged the slaves to steal, trafficked in stolen goods, and stole themselves.

Why this difference? I felt I was the equal of these poor whites, and naturally I concluded
that we were greatly wronged, and that all this talk about obedience, duty, humility, and honesty
was, in the phrase of my companions, "all gammon."

But I was now on the high-road to liberty. I had broken the bonds that held me so firmly; and
now, instead of fears of recapture, that before had haunted my imagination whenever I thought
of running away, I felt as light as a feather, and seemed to be helped onward by an irresistible
force.

Some time before this, I had been able, through the instrumentality of a friend, to procure
a pass, for which I paid five dollars,--all the money I had saved in a long time; but as my
brother determined to go with me, and as we could not both use it safely, I destroyed it.

On the day I ceased working for master, after gaining the woods, we lurked about and discussed
our plans until after dark. Then we stole back to the Quarter, made up our bundles, bade some
of our friends farewell, and at about nine o'clock of the night set out for Baltimore. How
shall I describe my first experience of free life? Nothing can be greater than the contrast
it affords to a plantation experience, under the suspicious and vigilant eye of a mercenary
overseer or a watchful master. Day and night are not more unlike. The mandates of Slavery are
like leaden sounds, sinking with dead weight into the very soul, only to deaden and destroy.
The impulse of freedom lends wings to the feet, buoys up the spirit within, and the fugitive
catches glorious glimpses of light through rifts and seams in the accumulated ignorance of
his years of oppression. How briskly we travelled on that eventful night and the next day!

We reached Baltimore on the following evening, between seven and eight o'clock. When we neared
the city, the patrols were out, and the difficulty was to pass them unseen or unsuspected.
I learned of a brick-yard at the entrance to the city; and thither we went at once, took brick-dust
and threw it upon our clothes, hats, and boots, and then walked on. Whenever we met a passer-by,
we would brush off some of the dust, and say aloud, "Boss gave us such big tasks, we would
leave him. We ought to have been in a long time before." By this ruse we reached quiet quarters
without arrest or suspicion.

We remained in Baltimore a week, and then set out for Pennsylvania.

We started with the brightest visions of future independence; but soon they were suddenly dimmed
by one of those unpleasant incidents which annoy the fugitive at every step of his onward journey.

The first place at which we stopped to rest was a village on the old York road, called New
Market. There nothing occurred to cause us alarm; so, after taking some refreshments, we proceeded
towards York; but when near Logansville, we were interrupted by three white men, one of whom,
a very large man, cried,--

"Hallo!"

I answered,--

"Hallo to you!"

"Which way are you travelling?" he asked.

We replied,--

"To Little York."

"Why are you travelling so late?"

"We are not later than you are," I answered.

"Your business must be of consequence," he said.

"It is. We want to go to York to attend to it; and if you have any business, please attend
to it, and don't be meddling with ours on the public highway. We have no business with you,
and I am sure you have none with us."

"See here!" said he; "you are the fellows that this advertisement calls for," at the same time
taking the paper out of his pocket, and reading it to us.

Sure enough, there we were, described exactly. He came closely to us, and said,--

"You must go back."

I replied,--

"If I must, I must, and you must take me."

"Oh, you need not make any big talk about it," he answered; "for I have taken back many a runaway,
and I can take you. What's that you have in your hand?"

"A stick."

He put his hand into his pocket, as if to draw a pistol, and said,--

"Come! give up your weapons."

I said again,--

"'Tis only a stick."

He then reached for it, when I stepped back and struck him a heavy blow on the arm. It fell
as if broken; I think it was. Then he turned and ran, and I after him. As he ran, he would
look back over his shoulder, see me coming, and then run faster, and halloo with all his might.
I could not catch him, and it seemed, that, the longer he ran, the faster he went. The other
two took to their heels at the first alarm,--thus illustrating the valor of the chivalry!

At last I gave up the chase. The whole neighborhood by that time was aroused, and we thought
best to retrace our steps to the place whence we started. Then we took a roundabout course
until we reached the railroad, along which we travelled. For a long distance there was unusual
stir and commotion. Every house was lighted up; and we heard people talking and horses galloping
this way and that way, with other evidences of unusual excitement. This was between one and
two o'clock in the morning. We walked on a long distance before we lost the sounds; but about
four o'clock the same morning, entered York, where we remained during the day.

Once in York, we thought we should be safe, but were mistaken. A similar mistake is often made
by fugitives. Not accustomed to travelling, and unacquainted with the facilities for communication,
they think that a few hours' walk is a long journey, and foolishly suppose, that, if they have
few opportunities of knowledge, their masters can have none at all at such great distances.
But our ideas of security were materially lessened when we met with a friend during the day,
who advised us to proceed farther, as we were not out of imminent danger.

According to this advice we started that night for Columbia. Going along in the dark, we heard
persons following. We went very near to the fence, that they might pass without observing us.
There were two, apparently in earnest conversation. The one who spoke so as to be distinctly
heard we discovered to be Master Mack's brother-in-law. He remarked to his companion that they
must hurry and get to the bridge before we crossed. He knew that we had not gone over yet.
We were then near enough to have killed them, concealed as we were by the darkness; but we
permitted them to pass unmolested, and went on to Wrightsville that night.

The next morning we arrived at Columbia before it was light, and fortunately without crossing
the bridge, for we were taken over in a boat. At Wrightsville we met a woman with whom we were
before acquainted, and our meeting was very gratifying. We there inclined to halt for a time.

I was not used to living in town, and preferred a home in the country; so to the country we
decided to go. After resting for four days, we started towards Lancaster to try to procure
work. I got a place about five miles from Lancaster, and then set to work in earnest.

While a slave, I was, as it were, groping in the dark, no ray of light penetrating the intense
gloom surrounding me. My scanty garments felt too tight for me, my very respiration seemed
to be restrained by some supernatural power. Now, free as I supposed, I felt like a bird on
a pleasant May morning. Instead of the darkness of slavery, my eyes were almost blinded by
the light of freedom.

Those were memorable days, and yet much of this was boyish fancy. After a few years of life
in a Free State, the enthusiasm of the lad materially sobered down, and I found, by bitter
experience, that to preserve my stolen liberty I must pay, unremittingly, an almost sleepless
vigilance; yet to this day I have never looked back regretfully to Old Maryland, nor yearned
for her flesh-pots.

I have said I engaged to work; I hired my services for three months for the round sum of three
dollars per month. I thought this an immense sum. Fast work was no trouble to me; for when
the work was done, the money was mine. That was a great consideration. I could go out on Saturdays
and Sundays, and home when I pleased, without being whipped. I thought of my fellow-servants
left behind, bound in the chains of slavery,--and I was free! I thought, that, if I had the
power, they should soon be as free as I was; and I formed a resolution that I would assist
in liberating every one within my reach at the risk of my life, and that I would devise some
plan for their entire liberation.

My brother went about fifteen miles farther on, and also got employment. I "put in" three months
with my employer, "lifted" my wages, and then went to visit my brother. He lived in Bart Township,
near Smyrna; and after my visit was over, I engaged to work for a Dr. Dengy, living nearby.
I remained with him thirteen months. I never have been better treated than by the Doctor; I
liked him and the family, and they seemed to think well of me.

While living with Dr. Dengy, I had, for the first time, the great privilege of seeing that
true friend of the slave, William Lloyd Garrison, who came into the neighborhood, accompanied
by Frederick Douglass. They were holding anti-slavery meetings. I shall never forget the impression
that Garrison's glowing words made upon me. I had formerly known Mr. Douglass as a slave in
Maryland; I was therefore not prepared for the progress he then showed,--neither for his free-spoken
and manly language against slavery. I listened with the intense satisfaction that only a refugee
could feel, when hearing, embodied in earnest, well-chosen, and strong speech, his own crude
ideas of freedom, and his own hearty censure of the man-stealer. I believed, I knew, every
word he said was true. It was the whole truth,--nothing kept back,--no trifling with human
rights, no trading in the blood of the slave extenuated, nothing against the slaveholder said
in malice. I have never listened to words from the lips of mortal man which were more acceptable
to me; and although privileged since then to hear many able and good men speak on slavery,
no doctrine has seemed to me so pure, so unworldly, as his. I may here say, and without offence,
I trust, that, since that time, I have had a long experience of Garrisonian Abolitionists,
and have always found them men and women with hearts in their bodies. They are, indeed and
in truth, the poor slave's friend. To shelter him, to feed and clothe him, to help him on to
freedom, I have ever found them ready; and I should be wanting in gratitude, if I neglected
this opportunity--the only one I may ever have--to say thus much of them, and to declare for
myself and for the many colored men in this free country whom I know they have aided in their
journey to freedom, our humble confidence in them. Yes, the good spirit with which he is imbued
constrained William Lloyd Garrison to plead for the dumb; and for his earnest pleadings all
these years, I say, God bless him! By agitation, by example, by suffering, men and women of
like spirit have been led to adopt his views, as the great necessity, and to carry them out
into actions. They, too, have my heartfelt gratitude. They, like Gideon's band, though few,
will yet rout the enemy Slavery, make him flee his own camp, and eventually fall upon his own
sword.[F]

One day, while living at Dr. Dengy's, I was working in the barn-yard, when a man came to the
fence, and, looking at me intently, went away. The Doctor's son, observing him, said,--

"Parker, that man, from his movements, must be a slaveholder or kidnapper. This is the second
time he has been looking at you. If not a kidnapper, why does he look so steadily at you and
not tell his errand?"

I said,--

"The man must be a fool! If he should come back and not say anything to me, I shall say something
to him."

We then looked down the road and saw him coming again. He rode up to the same place and halted.
I then went to the fence, and, looking him steadily in the eye, said,--

"Am I your slave?"

He made no reply, but turned his horse and rode off, at full speed, towards the valley. We
did not see him again; but that same evening word was brought that kidnappers were in the valley,
and if we were not careful, they would "hook" some of us. This caused a great excitement among
the colored people of the neighborhood.

A short while prior to this, a number of us had formed an organization for mutual protection
against slaveholders and kidnappers, and had resolved to prevent any of our brethren being
taken back into slavery, at the risk of our own lives. We collected together that evening,
and went down to the valley; but the kidnappers had gone. We watched them for several nights
in succession, without result; for so much alarmed were the tavern-keepers by our demonstration,
that they refused to let them stop over night with them. Kidnapping was so common, while I
lived with the Doctor, that we were kept in constant fear. We would hear of slaveholders or
kidnappers every two or three weeks; sometimes a party of white men would break into a house
and take a man away, no one knew where; and, again, a whole family would be carried off. There
was no power to protect them, nor prevent it. So completely roused were my feelings, that I
vowed to let no slaveholder take back a fugitive, if I could but get my eye on him.

One day word was sent to me that slaveholders had taken William Dorsey, and had put him into
Lancaster jail to await a trial. Dorsey had a wife and three or four children; but what was
it to the slaveholder, if the wife and children should starve? We consulted together, as to
what course to take to deliver him; but no plan that was proposed could be worked. At last
we separated, determining to get him away some way or other on the day of trial. His case caused
great excitement. We attended the trial, and eagerly watched all the movements from an outside
position, and had a man to tell us how proceedings were going on within. He finally came out
and said that the case would go against Dorsey. We then formed in a column at the court-house
door, and when the slaveholders and Dorsey came out, we walked close to them,--behind and around
them,--trying to separate them from him. Before we had gone far towards the jail, a slaveholder
drew a pistol on Williams Hopkins, one of our party. Hopkins defied him to shoot; but he did
not. Then the slaveholder drew the pistol on me, saying, he would blow my black brains out,
if I did not go away. I doubled my fists to knock him down, but some person behind caught my
hand; this started a fracas, and we got Dorsey loose; but he was so confused that he stood
stock still, until they tied him again. A general fight followed. Bricks, stones, and sticks
fell in showers. We fought across the road and back again, and I thought our brains would be
knocked out; when the whites, who were too numerous for us, commenced making arrests. They
got me fast several times, but I succeeded in getting away. One of our men was arrested, and
afterwards stood trial; but they did not convict him. Dorsey was put into jail, but was afterwards
bought and liberated by friends.

My friends now said that I had got myself into a bad difficulty, and that my arrest would follow.
In this they were mistaken. I never was disturbed because of it, nor was the house at which
I lodged ever searched, although the neighbors were repeatedly annoyed in that way. I distinctly
remember that this was the second time that resistance had been made to their wicked deeds.
Whether the kidnappers were clothed with legal authority or not, I did not care to inquire,
as I never had faith in nor respect for the Fugitive-Slave Law.

The whites of that region were generally such negro-haters, that it was a matter of no moment
to them where fugitives were carried,--whether to Lancaster, Harrisburg, or elsewhere.

The insolent and overbearing conduct of the Southerners, when on such errands to Pennsylvania,
forced me to my course of action. They did not hesitate to break open doors, and to enter,
without ceremony, the houses of colored men; and when refused admission, or when a manly and
determined spirit was shown, they would present pistols, and strike and knock down men and
women indiscriminately.

I was sitting one evening in a friend's house, conversing about these marauding parties, when
I remarked to him that a stop should be put to such "didos," and declared, that, the next time
a slaveholder came to a house where I was, I would refuse to admit him. His wife replied, "It
will make a fuss." I told her, "It is time a fuss was made." She insisted that it would cause
trouble, and it was best to let them alone and have peace. Then I told her we must have trouble
before we could have peace, "The first slaveholder that draws a pistol on me I shall knock down."

We were interrupted, just at this stage of the conversation, by some one rapping at the door.

"Who's there?" I asked.

"It's me! Who do you think? Open the door!" was the response, in a gruff tone.

"What do you want?" I asked.

Without replying, the man opened the door and came in, followed by two others.

The first one said,--

"Have you any niggers here?"

"What have we to do with your niggers?" said I.

After bandying a few words, he drew his pistol upon me. Before he could bring the weapon to
bear, I seized a pair of heavy tongs, and struck him a violent blow across the face and neck,
which knocked him down. He lay for a few minutes senseless, but afterwards rose, and walked
out of the house without a word, followed by his comrades, who also said nothing to us, but
merely asked their leader, as they went out, if he was hurt.

The part of Lancaster County in which I lived was near Chester County. Not far away, in the
latter county, lived Moses Whitson, a well-known Abolitionist, and a member of the Society
of Friends. Mr. Whitson had a colored girl living in his family, who was pounced upon by the
slaveholders, awhile after the Dorsey arrest. About daylight three men went to Mr. Whitson's
house and told him that the girl he had living with him was their property, and that they intended
to have her. Friend Whitson asked the girl if she knew any of the men, and if any of them was
her master. She said, "No!" One of the slaveholders said he could prove that she was his property;
and then they forcibly tied her, put her into a carriage, and started for Maryland.

While the kidnappers were contending with Moses Whitson for the girl, Benjamin Whipper, a colored
man, who now lives in this country, sounded the alarm, that "the kidnappers were at Whitson's,
and were taking away his girl." The news soon reached me, and with six or seven others, I followed
them. We proceeded with all speed to a place called the Gap-Hill, where we overtook them, and
took the girl away. Then we beat the kidnappers, and let them go. We learned afterwards that
they were all wounded badly, and that two of them died in Lancaster, and the other did not
get home for some time. Only one of our men was hurt, and he had only a slight injury in the hand.

Dr. Duffield and Squire Henderson, two respectable citizens of the town, were looking on during
this entire engagement; and after we had stopped firing, they went up to the slaveholders,
and the following conversation took place:--

Squire Henderson. What's the matter?

Slaveholder. You may ask, what's the matter! Is this the way you allow your niggers to do?

Squire. Why did you not shoot them?

Slaveholder. We did shoot at them, but it did not take effect.

Squire. There's no use shooting at our niggers, for their heads are like iron pots; the balls
will glance off. What were you doing?

Slaveholder. Taking our property, when the niggers jumped on us and nearly killed some of the men.

Squire. Men coming after such property ought to be killed.

Slaveholder. Do you know where we can find a doctor?

Squire. Yes; there are plenty of doctors South.

Being much disabled, and becoming enraged, they abruptly left, and journeyed on until they
reached McKenzie's tavern, where their wounds were dressed and their wants attended to. So
strongly was McKenzie in sympathy with these demons, that he declared he would never employ
another nigger, and actually discharged a faithful colored woman who had lived a long time
in his employ. Dr. Lemmon, a physician on the road to Lancaster, refused to attend the slaveholders;
so that by the time they got to the city, from being so long without surgical aid, their limbs
were past setting, and two of them died, as before stated, while the other survived but a short
time after reaching Maryland.

A large reward was offered by the Maryland authorities for the perpetrators of the flogging,
but without effect.

McKenzie, the tavern-keeper referred to, boasted after this that he would entertain all slaveholders
who came along, and help them recapture their slaves. We were equally determined he should
not, if we could prevent it.

The following affliction was eventually the means, under Providence, by which he was led to
adopt other views, and become a practical Abolitionist.

A band of five men stood off, one dark night, and saw with evident satisfaction the curling
flames ascend above his barn, from girder to roof, and lap and lash their angry tongues in
wild license, until every vestige of the building was consumed.

After that mysterious occurrence, the poor fugitive had no better friend than the publican
McKenzie.

Shortly after the incidents just related, I was married to Eliza Ann Elizabeth Howard, a fugitive,
whose experience of slavery had been much more bitter than my own. We commenced house-keeping,
renting a room from Enoch Johnson for one month. We did not like our landlord, and when the
time was up left, and rented a house of Isaac Walker for one year. After the year was out,
we left Walker's and went to Smyrna, and there I rented a house from Samuel D. Moore for another
year. After the year was out we left Smyrna also, and went to Joseph Moore's to live. We lived
on his place about five years. While we were living there, several kidnappers came into the
neighborhood. On one occasion, they took a colored man and started for Maryland. Seven of us
set out in pursuit, and, soon getting on their track, followed them to a tavern on the Westchester
road, in Chester County. Learning that they were to remain for the night, I went to the door
and asked for admittance. The landlord demanded to know if we were white or colored. I told
him colored. He then told us to be gone, or he would blow out our brains. We walked aside a
little distance, and consulted about what we should do. Our men seemed to dread the undertaking;
but I told them we could overcome them, and that I would go in. One of them said he would follow
at the risk of his life. The other five said we should all get killed,--that we were men with
families,--that our wives and children needed our assistance,--and that they did not think
we would be doing our families justice by risking our lives for one man. We two then went back
to the tavern, and, after rapping, were told again by the landlord to clear out, after he found
that we were colored. I pretended that we wanted something to drink. He put his head out of
the window, and threatened again to shoot us; when my comrade raised his gun and would have
shot him down, had I not caught his arm and persuaded him not to fire. I told the landlord
that we wanted to come in and intended to come in. Then I went to the yard, got a piece of
scantling, took it to the door, and, by battering with it a short time, opened it. As soon
as the door flew open, a kidnapper shot at us, and the ball lodged in my ankle, bringing me
to the ground. But I soon rose, and my comrade then firing on them, they took to their heels.
As they ran away, I heard one say, "We have killed one of them."

My companion and I then rushed into the house. We unbound the man, took him out, and started
for home; but had hardly crossed the door-sill before people from the neighboring houses began
to fire on us. At this juncture, our other five came up, and we all returned the compliment.
Firing on both sides was kept up for ten or fifteen minutes, when the whites called for quarter,
and offered to withdraw, if we would stop firing. On this assurance we started off with the
man, and reached home safely.

The next day my ankle was very painful. With a knife I extracted the ball, but kept the wound
secret; as long before we had learned that for our own security it was best not to let such
things be generally known.

About ten o'clock of a Sabbath night, awhile after the event last narrated, we were aroused
by the cry of "Kidnappers! kidnappers!" and immediately some one halloed under my window,--

"William! William!"

I put my head out and demanded his errand. He said,--

"Come here!"

I answered,--

"You must be a fool to think I am going to you at this time of the night, without knowing who
you are and what you want."

He would not satisfy me, so I took my gun, and went out to him. I was then informed that kidnappers
had been at Allen Williams's; that they had taken Henry Williams, and gone towards Maryland.
I called one of our party, who dressed and proceeded to arouse our men. Two of us then started
for the Nine Points, in Lancaster County, and left instructions for the other men to meet us
in the valley. They did so, and we hurried on to our destination. We had not gone far before
we heard some one calling, "Kidnappers! kidnappers!" Going back some distance, we found the
cry came from a man who had fallen into a lime quarry. He was in a bad situation, and unable
to get out without assistance, and, hearing us pass, concluded we were kidnappers and raised
the cry. We were delayed for a time in helping him out, and it provoked me very much, as it
was important we should be in haste.

We started again for the Nine Points, but, arriving there, learned to our dismay, that the
kidnappers had passed an hour before. The chase was given up, but with saddened feelings. A
fellow-being had been dragged into hopeless bondage, and we, his comrades, held our liberty
as insecurely as he had done but a few short hours before! We asked ourselves the question,
"Whose turn will come next?" I was delegated to find out, if possible, who had betrayed him,
which I accordingly did.

Lynch law is a code familiar to the colored people of the Slave States. It is of so diabolical
a character as to be without justification, except when enforced by men of pure motives, and
then only in extreme cases, as when the unpunished party has it in his power to barter away
the lives and liberties of those whose confidence he possesses, and who would, by bringing
him before a legal tribunal, expose themselves to the same risks that they are liable to from
him. The frequent attacks from slaveholders and their tools, the peculiarity of our position,
many being escaped slaves, and the secrecy attending these kidnapping exploits, all combined
to make an appeal to the Lynch Code in our case excusable, if not altogether justifiable. Ourselves,
our wives, our little ones, were insecure, and all we had was liable to seizure. We felt that
something must be done, for some one must be in our midst with whom the slaveholders had communication.
I inquired around, quietly, and soon learned that Allen Williams, the very man in whose house
the fugitive was, had betrayed him. This information I communicated to our men. They met at
my house and talked the matter over, and, after most solemnly weighing all the facts and evidence,
we resolved that he should die, and we set about executing our purpose that evening. The difficulty
was, how to punish him. Some were for shooting him, but this was not feasible. I proposed another
plan, which was agreed to.

Accordingly, we went to his house and asked if a man named Carter, who lived with him, was
at home, as rumor said that he had betrayed Henry Williams. He denied it, and said that Carter
had fought for Henry with him, but the slaveholders being too strong for them, they had to
give him up. He kept beyond reach, and the men apologized for intruding upon him, while I stepped
up to the door and asked for a glass of water. He gave it to me, and to the others. When he
was giving water to one of the party, I caught him by the throat, to prevent his giving the
alarm, and drew him over my head and shoulders. Then the rest beat him until we thought we
heard some one coming, which caused us to flee. If we had not been interrupted, death would
have been his fate. At that time I was attending a threshing-machine for George Whitson and
Joseph Scarlot.

It must have been a month after the Williams affray, that I was sitting at home one evening,
talking with Pinckney and Samuel Thompson about how I was getting on with my work, when I thought
I heard some one call my name. I went out, but all was quiet. When I went in, Pinckney and
Thompson laughed at me, and said that I had become so "scary" that I could not stay in the
house. But I was not satisfied. I was sure some one had called me. I said so, and that I would
go to Marsh Chamberlain's to see if anything was wrong. They concluded to go also, and we started.

Arriving near the house, I told Pinckney and Thompson to stop outside, and I would go in, and
if anything was wrong, would call them. When I reached the house, I saw a chair broken to pieces,
and knew that something had happened, I said,--

"Hallo, Marsh!"

"Who is that?" said he.

And his wife said,--

"Parker, is that you?"

"Yes," I said.

"Oh, Parker, come here!" she called.

I called Pinckney and Thompson, and we went in. Marsh met us, and said that kidnappers had
been there, had taken John Williams, and gone with him towards Buck Hill. They had then been
gone about fifteen minutes. Off we started on a rapid run to save him. We ran to a stable,
got out two horses, and Pinckney and I rode on. Thompson soon got the rest of our party together
and followed. We were going at a pretty good gait, when Pinckney's horse stumbled and fell,
fastening his rider's leg; but I did not halt. Pinckney got his horse up and caught up with me.

"You would not care," said he, "if a man were to get killed! You would not help him!"

"Not in such a case as this," I replied.

We rode on to the Maryland line, but could not overtake them. We were obliged to return, as
it was near daybreak. The next day a friend of ours went to Maryland to see what had been done
with Williams. He went to Dr. Savington's, and the Doctor told him that the fugitive could
not live,--the kidnappers had broken his skull, and otherwise beaten him very badly; his ankle,
too, was out of place. In consequence of his maimed condition, his mistress refused to pay
the men anything for bringing him home. That was the last we ever heard of poor John Williams;
but we learned afterwards why we failed to release him on the night he was taken. The kidnappers
heard us coming, and went into the woods out of the way, until we had passed them.

Awhile before this occurrence, there lived in a town not far away from Christiana a colored
man who was in the habit of decoying fugitives fresh from bondage to his house on various pretexts,
and, by assuming to be their friend, got from them the name of their master, his residence,
and other needed particulars. He would then communicate with the master about his slave, tell
him at what time the man would be at his house, and when he came at the appointed hour, the
poor refugee would fall into the merciless clutches of his owner. Many persons, mostly young
people, had disappeared mysteriously from the country, from whom nothing could be heard. At
last the betrayer's connection with these transactions was clearly traced; and it was decided
to force him to quit the nefarious business.

He was too wary to allow himself to be easily taken, and a resort was had to stratagem. I,
with others, thought he deserved to be shot openly in his daughter's house, and was willing
to take the consequences.

At last this man's outrages became so notorious that six of our most reliable men resolved
to shoot him, if they had to burn him out to do it. After I had sworn the men in the usual
form, we went to his barn, took two bundles of wheat-straw, and, fastening them under the eaves
with wisps, applied a lighted match to each. We then took our stations a few rods off, with
rifles ready and in good condition,--mine was a smooth-bore, with a heavy charge.

The house burned beautifully; and half an hour after it ignited the walls fell in, but no betrayer
showed himself. Instead of leaving the house by the rear door, as we had expected, just before
the roof fell in, he broke out the front way, rushed to his next neighbor's, and left his place
without an effort to save it. We had built the fire in the rear, and looked for him there;
but he ran in the opposite direction, not only as if his life was in danger, but as if the
spirit of his evil deeds was after him.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote F: This sentence was written before the beginning of our civil war. Viewed in the
light of subsequent events, it is somewhat remarkable.--E. K.]

THE ORIGIN OF THE GYPSIES.

For more than four hundred years the Gypsies have been one of the riddles of European history.
Much deep study and learned research have found plentiful employment in the endeavor to point
out the land of their origin; and the views taken have consequently been many and various.
It appears to the writer that all the well-known views on this subject are far from the truth;
and he desires to assert for the Gypsies an origin quite different, as he believes, from any
ever yet suggested: at least, what he believes to be the real origin of this singular race
is not even hinted at in the more celebrated treatises. Conscious of the diffidence with which
any one should approach a matter which so many learned men have labored over, he advances the
plea of the proverb, that they who study the stars will stumble at stones,--a plea, that much
learning and genius may fail, where less would not be at fault.

It has been maintained that the Gypsies are Egyptians, and even that they are the followers
of Pharaoh, perhaps not yet gotten home from that Red Sea journey. Otherwise that they are
the descendants of the vagabond votaries of Isis, who were in Rome just what the Gypsies are
in modern Europe. It has been argued that they were Grecian heretics; that they were persecuted
Jews; that they were Tartars; that they were Moors; and that they were Hindoos, Grellman accepted
(as it suited his theory) the assertion that they entered Germany from Turkey, though he rejected,
without examination, the assertion, made on equally good authority, that they entered it from
Spain, from Italy, from Denmark, and from Sweden. We find, by comparison of accounts, that
they appeared within the space of a few years at every point of a circle of which Germany was
the centre, and everywhere they were regarded as foreigners,--even in Egypt.

Later times have concluded that the Gypsies are Hindoos, and it is generally acknowledged that
Grellman and Borrow have proved this. The evidences adduced are, that the Gypsy tongue is strikingly
like some Hindoo dialects and the parent Sanscrit,--that the races are similar in complexion,
shape, disposition, and habits,--distinguished by the same vagrant nature, the same love of
idleness, music, dancing, and thievery. In this course of argument, that founded, upon the
language is of course the really strong one.

Without denying any of these evidences,--assenting, indeed, to every one of them,--I yet assert
that the Gypsies are not of Asiatic origin, and not, as the sturdy Dutchmen call them, the
"heathens,"--unless we refer to the original use of that word, and call all heathens that dwell
on the heath. I assert that they are Europeans, and one of the results of the religious wars
of the fifteenth century. Bohemia is the land of their origin; and when we consider that one
of the most enlightened nations of Europe has called them Bohemians for four hundred years,
it is remarkable that that name has been so little considered in attempts to penetrate this
mystery. John Ziska or Tschischka, the greatest of the Hussite leaders, in the brave struggle
of that sect against the Roman Church, is the man who may be looked upon as the father of the
race. Though a clumsy attempt to pronounce Tschischka by a foreign tongue might well result
in something farther from it than Gypsy, there is, perhaps, nothing in that resemblance. The
word gypsy, which is only the English name for this remarkable people, is, no doubt, a consequence
of the ancient error that called them Egyptians; but it is odd to see English writers using
the resemblance between those words as an argument in favor of that origin, and thus endeavoring
to perpetuate error by the results of error.

Ziska became prominent as a leader in the year 1418, and in that year was authorized to raise
forces. Probably he had been busy in that way even earlier; and so, from the first, secrecy
and deception would have been necessary in the organization of his innumerable small bodies,
so suddenly made one great body when he extorted the royal authority. He carried on hostilities
with great success until his death in 1424. By this event, the Hussites were divided into three
bodies, one of which was called the Orphans, or orphan children of Ziska. These dwelt in their
camps in the open country, and were under a vow never again to sleep beneath a roof. They also
refused obedience to any sovereign. Driven out of Bohemia in the disasters to which the death
of Ziska led the way, and still more effectually driven out in the expatriation of all non-Catholics,
the whole sect became fugitives and wanderers; and it is easy to see what kind of wanderers
the "Orphans" particularly would be, with their wagon-camps and their oath against houses.

It is a remarkable coincidence, (if it shall prove to be no more,) that the Gypsies, a race
of wanderers, peculiar by reason of the very characteristic that would have resulted from the
Hussite oath, made their first appearance in Europe at this very period,--between 1418 and
1427,--and in those very countries in which the Orphans ought first to have been seen. But
the earliest circumstantial notice of a company of Gypsies relates to the one that visited
Paris in 1427. Pasquier gave a particular account of them, and remarks, that, though they had
a very bad name, and though he was with them a great deal, he "never lost a coin."

These were called Bohemians, and the French have adhered to that name ever since. Doubtless
the French of that day, who conversed with these people, and looked at them with very wide-open
eyes, had as good reason for calling them Bohemians as they had for calling other men Spaniards,
Italians, or Russians. Bohemia then formed too important a part of Europe for Frenchmen to
confound men of that country with Hindoos just from Asia. The Bohemians were not strangers
in France. Nearly a hundred years before, a king of Bohemia, with a large retinue, was present
on the French side at the battle of Crécy, and Ziska himself fought at Agincourt. But writers
on the Gypsies treat very slightingly the fact, that the French called the first party that
visited Paris, as mentioned above, Bohemians, and merely say that they use that name for the
Gypsies, "because they first heard of them from Bohemia."

Various circumstances point to the probability that the Gypsies were, at their first appearance
in different countries, fugitives from religious intolerance. They always called themselves
pilgrims, which Egyptians or Hindoos would scarcely have done, but which would be quite natural
in that age to Europeans desirous of concealing their real character and of commending themselves
to strangers in whom their difference of faith made them expect to find enemies. They called
themselves Christians also, and declared ostentatiously their conformity to the Roman Catholic
rites; but they carefully kept away from the churches. This assumption of a character which
they knew would protect them is in keeping with the whole craft of their lives.

Another notable fact is, that they showed everywhere passes of safe-conducts from the Emperor
Sigismund. Ziska's followers could not have got authentic passes, but they could forge them
easily; and Hindoo stragglers, on their first appearance in Europe, would hardly have known
the value of such pieces of paper. In all the original Gypsy parties there were dukes and counts,
and these men called themselves Lords of Little Egypt; and from this fact seems originally
to have arisen the notion that they were Egyptians. But this seems less like an assertion of
their origin than like a piece of Scriptural phraseology. The Hussites used in that way a Biblical
imagery, like the Puritans of a later age. Like the Puritans, they called their opponents Moabites,
Amalekites, and so on. With the Puritans, Egypt was always "the house of bondage," and that
name was the common designation of any place of persecution.

Grellman refers to the name Polgar as Indian, and as common with the Gypsies; but he does not
notice that the men in all the original Gypsy parties bore such sufficiently Christian appellations
as Michael, Andrew, John, and Peter. Rommany is the Gypsy name for a Gypsy, and this is referred
to the Sanscrit Rama, man, by one author, and by others to the Coptic Rom. Either is possible,
but sufficiently remote. By the kind of deception referred to above, which made the Gypsies
call themselves Catholics when in Catholic countries, it is probable that they may sometimes
have gone so far as to say that they were Romans,--that is, adherents of Rome,--and habit may
have fastened the name. This derivation is as good as either of the others.

But the language of the Gypsies has been most relied upon to prove their derivation from Hindostan,
both by Grellman and Borrow. Remarkable similarities have been shown to exist between the Hindoo
dialects and the Gypsy tongue. But the argument of language is better for Bohemian than for
Hindoo origin. The Bohemians were Cechs, a branch of the great Slavic race of undoubted Asiatic
origin; and the Cech language descended from the Sanscrit almost as directly as the Hindoo
dialects did. Here is a good reason why the Hindoo dialects and the Gypsy tongue--if the Gypsies
were Bohemians--should closely resemble one another. They were from the same parent stem. The
learned Büsching said, "The Gypsy language is a mixture of corrupt words from the Wallachian,
Slavonian, Hungarian, and other nations." These are the cognate languages of the Slavic race,
all descended from the same source, and that also the source of the Cech. The first list of
Gypsy words ever made was cited to prove an Egyptian origin, and they were Slavic. That was,
perhaps, the best list ever made, as later ones show the results of the use of the languages
of the various lands in which the Gypsies wander.

The complexion, habits, and character of the Gypsies resemble those of the Cechs as nearly
as they do those of the Hindoos. The Cechs are an eminently gay and musical race. As regards
complexion, it is found that the Gypsies in the Austrian army, who have been compelled to relinquish
their wild life and dwell in houses, are as white as Europeans generally.

Assuming that Grellman has disproved all the other suggested origins in favor of the Hindoo
theory, and considering the question as simply between India and Bohemia, it appears to me
that the argument is altogether in favor of the derivation of the Gypsies from the latter country.

PASSAGES FROM HAWTHORNE'S NOTE-BOOKS.

II.

COURT-CARDS.

What a hand the Major has dealt me! Do look over my shoulder, Madam, and see these cards! What
quaint, odd, old-time figures they are! I wonder if the kings and queens of by-gone centuries
were such grotesque-looking objects as these. Look at that Queen of Spades! Why, Dr. Slop's
abdominal sesquipedality was sylph-like grace to the Lambertian girth she displays. And note
the pattern of her dress, if dress it can be called,--that rotund expanse of heraldic, bar-sinistered,
Chinese embroidery. Look at that Jack of Diamonds! What a pair of collar-bones he must have!
That little feat of Atlas would be child's-play to him; for he could step off with a whole
orrery on those shoulders. And his hands! what Liliputian phalanges, which Beau Brummel, or
D'Orsay, or any other professional dandy might die envying! As for the King of Hearts, he looks
as much like a pet of the fair sex as Boanerges or Bung the Beadle. And what strange anatomical
proportions they exhibit, with their gigantic heads, abortive necks, and the calves of their
legs protuberant around their tibias and fibulas, alike before and behind! And then they are
all left-handed! Were these the gay gallants and fair dames of the golden age of chivalry?
Were these shapeless things the forms and costumes of the princes and princesses of ancient
France? Why, the dark-skinned old-clo' men, who hang their cast-off raiment in Brattle Street,
would be mobbed, if they paraded such vestments at their doors; and Papanti would break his
fiddle-bow over the head of any awkward lout who should unfortunately assume such an ungainly
position.

But the power they wield! Ah, my dear Madam, kings and queens may be backed like a whale or
humped like a camel, but down goes the world on its marrow-bones, and worships them for Venuses
and Adonises. And as for this particular reigning family, these four great branches of the
Hearts, Spades, Diamonds, and Clubs, Diana, fresh from the bath, never looked so enticing to
the eager eyes of a losing player as their Brobdignagian dames, nor Apollo himself so beautiful
as the ugly mugs of their lumbering kings. The Baroness Bernstein would bend her old back over
the table to greet their wall-eyed monarchs, and forget young Harry was by; and little Nell's
grandfather would bow beneath the midnight candle to caress those greasy Gorgons, while she,
sweet little girl, was waiting his return in loneliness. All the other crowned heads of Christendom
are titled nobodies beside these mighty potentates. The General of the Jesuits wields, they
say, wonderful power; but his sceptre is a bulrush beside the truncheon which these kings of
the earth hold in their grasp. And here, yes, here in Republican America, the thousands who
scout Napoleon, frown on Victoria, and pity the Pope, do nightly homage to this mighty dynasty,
and find grace and loveliness in their bottle noses and crooked legs. And--must I confess it,
Madam?--do not I, democratic Asmodeus, when I play my quiet rubber at so much a corner, look
chopfallen at the deuces and treys which I despondently arrange in numerical order, and welcome,
with beating heart, those same crowned heads, as they lift themselves before me? Oh, it is
not gambling, Madam. Only something to make it interesting, so that the Major and I shall keep
our minds on the game.

And do we not all play our little game in the world,--sometimes with all that makes it bright
to us at stake? What is the paltry sum beside me to that which we all of us hold in our hands,
to be decided by the deal of Fortune? You don't play whist. And yet, Madam, I have seen you
at a game of chance, in which you have risked your peace, your happiness, your future, upon
what another should deal out to you. You don't understand me? In the great game of life, Frank
offered you his hand, and you took it. I hope it held court-cards. We are all players. The
lean and sanctified bigot, who looks in holy horror on this printed pasteboard, as though it
were the legitimate offspring of the Devil and Dr. Faustus, plays his own pious game at winning
souls, and risks--charity. The griping money-catcher, who shudders at the thought of losing
gold in spendthrift play, takes his own close and cunning game at winning wealth, and risks--esteem.
The ambitious aspirant, who scorns such empty things as cards, plays boldly at his daring game
at winning position, and risks--honor. The bright-eyed girl throws heart and soul into the
enchanting game of love, and risks--virtue. Charity, esteem, honor, virtue,--are not these
great stakes to offer, beside which my modest risk sinks into very insignificance? Ah, we all
play, and with what varied success! How many poor, unlucky wights turn up deuces all their
life, while others, born under luckier stars, hold a fistful of kings and queens! How many
eyes grow dim over the faint chances of small digits, while others sparkle in the reflected
light of those regal robes! Ah, my dear Madam, not only in dank forecastles, in foul taverns,
in luxurious club-houses, or elegant saloons, does Fortune deal out her winning or losing cards.
She spreads them before us on the green cloth of life's table, in that game which counts up
its gains or losses in another world.

Did you ever see an aëronaut, when he has risen high above the earth, scatter, with lavish
hand, a host of little cards, which flutter down upon us, twisting and turning, in showers
of glittering colors? He but typifies the hand of Fate, which deals to us, brilliant with the
hopes that tint them in rainbow beauty, the cards of life's eager game. We gather them up joyfully;
but, alas! how rapidly their fictitious beauty fades, and what miserable pasteboard affairs
they become to us, as, one by one, we lay them down, and see our treasures dwindling away from
us with them, as they go!

Somebody must win? Yes, Madam, somebody gets the court-cards. We all get them sometimes; and
we too often play them very wrongly. We throw away our kings and our queens. We pass by the
opportunities to score, while some happier child of fortune bears off all the honors. But not
always. Fortune rarely pursues any of us with unremitting ill-will. She sends us all court-cards,
and we have only to trust on and wait for the change that is to bring, at last, success. Let
us never throw up our hands in despair. Somebody--he must have been a tailor, or with sartorial
proclivities--has said that there is a silver lining to every cloud. And so we all of us hold
hands, which, among deuces and treys, have some court-cards. Let us not then inveigh against
the goddess who blindly distributes them. Be it our aim to play those well which fall to our
share, and not recklessly cast them away, because we find fewer of those broad-shouldered,
goggle-eyed, party-colored gentry than we hoped for. No! let us tuck them carefully away under
our thumbs, and make the most of them.

Perhaps Asmodeus may have pined in grief, playing his little deuces and never winning the great
stake of fame;--but who shall tell? May not his hopeful heart break forth some day with regnant
power which shall bear away the prize? Frank, you know, has toiled day and night for wealth
to buy comfort and ease for his modest home. He has made his little ventures, and has seen
his dreams of grand results fade from him, day by day. Let him venture on. By-and-by his vessels
shall come home laden with noble freights; and his name shall be favorably known on 'Change,
and be printed in the lists of men who pay heavy taxes on swelling fortunes; and you shall
have your jewels and trinkets with the best. Pinxit, who has been starving in his garret, and
whose walls are lined with dusty canvas, shall lay on colors which shall charm the world; his
old, neglected frames shall be brought out, and the world shall find Apollos in his men, and
Venuses in his women, which before were only meaner beauties; Vanitas shall loiter round his
easel and command his pencil with ready gold; and Art-Journals shall rehearse his praises in
strange, cabalistic words. Scripsit, who has digested his paltry rasher in moody silence, shall
touch the hearts of men with new-born words of flame; and the poor epic, which once had served
a clownish huckster's vulgar need, shall travel far and wide, in blue and gold, and lie on
tables weighed with words familiar in all mouths. Patrista, who, thirsting for his country's
good, has been, perforce, content to see all others rise and sway the crowd, while he has toiled
in vain, shall shake the nation with his eloquence, and from his chair of state, whence go
abroad the statutes he has framed, shall read again his earlier works, now rescued from the
past to teach the young. Reporters on his words shall hang, from every window shall his sapient
visage smile, and even the London Times shall think it worth the while to underrate him.

And then, my dear Madam, we rarely play alone. The melancholy unfortunates reduced to solitaire
are few indeed. We have partners, Madam, to share our losses and our gains,--partners to mourn
over our poor little lost deuces, and rejoice when royalty holds its court under our thumbs.
Have not I beloved Mrs. Asmodeus, the lovely, kind, clever partner of my varied fortune? Did
she not deal to me, one summer eve, the best bower in the pack, who reigns over all the kings
and queens in or out of Christendom, and whose sway remains supreme through all the changing
suits of time and fortune? He does not sport the garb of those elder knaves, it is true, though
he is knavish enough when occasion offers,--he is at this moment inspecting a new jack-knife,
and will, I fear, whittle off one of his dear, chubby fingers,--but he outranks all the crowned
monarchs in the world. Whom do I mean? Whom, but Thomas the First, Thomas the Only, my first-born,
royal son? When that king of your own heart was taken from you,--when the little frocks, richer
than ermine robes, were hid away in sacred recesses,--when the little toys, mightier than jewelled
sceptres, were garnered up and kept as holy relics,--when the house no longer echoed to the
tones of the sweet childish voice, and the silence of the grave settled over earth,--when the
glare of day was hateful and the darkness of night fearful, and life, without the darling one,
was living death,--had you not then a partner, a kind, tender, sympathizing partner, who took
you to his heart, and bowed his head with you, and knit you closer to him by a bond the strongest
life can weave, the bond of sorrow shared? And look farther back into the past, before sorrow
came, and when light-hearted, beaming, hoping joy dwelt within you. When you used to catch
Frank's eye with those tiny boots and flowing skirts, as you gracefully swept by him, had you
not a partner to share those throbbing emotions? Were not all the hopes, dreams, and doubts,
which then awoke, new-born within you, reëchoed and fondly shared? Did he not bear away, for
days and nights, the brightness of your smile, the bend of your angelic head, and the trip
of the tiny boots? And when the Heaven-sent moment came for the tongue to tell what the heart
had so long cherished in silence, was there not a partner before you who dealt out words which
filled your soul with rapture, and helped you to win the dearest prize that earth affords,--a
mutual love? And look farther on into the distant future, when the tiny boots shall have long
been cast aside, and the flowing silks shall have sunken into inexpansive, sober gray,--when
the early joys and the early sorrows shall fade into the dim, half-remembered past,--when time
shall have blanched the curly locks which first caught your girlish fancy, and lined the fair
brow you once kissed in its manly beauty,--when the bloom of your own youth shall have passed
away, and, in its stead, you see the faded remnants of your queenly prime,--when round you
gather the fair youths and maidens who are living over the joys and sorrows which once moved
your tired heart, and which you then shall look upon with that sad philosophy which tells you
that the day has come when earthly interests can never sway you more,--will you not then have
a partner who will share the memories of the past, and, heart to heart, will tread with you
the slow decline, and win the prize outranking all,--eternal peace?

Yes, Madam, Jack has his messmate in the tarry bunk; Dick has his pal in the hidden haunt;
the Major winks to the Colonel in the luxurious club; and Madame smiles on Monsieur in the
brilliant drawing-room. Castor and Pollux pitched their quoits, Damon and Pythias ran their
races, Strephon and Chloë ogled and blushed, and Darby and Joan tottered hand in hand along,
in olden times; and all over the world, to-day, the never-ending game of human passion is played
and shared by eager, restless, trembling hearts.

I declare, while I have been chatting aside with you, I have trumped the Major's ace, and lost
the odd trick and the game! What a thunder-cloud he looks like! Ah, Madam, let us hope that
we may all play the cards which Fortune shall deal to us, so as never to lose the prize we
covet! And when they are at last thrown by, and the game of life is over, may we have won those
riches which neither moth nor rust will corrupt! May kingly honor and queenly virtue guide
us on, and lead us to those courts above, where they forever reign in sublime power!

A LANDSCAPE PAINTER.

Do you remember how, a dozen years ago, a number of our friends were startled by the report
of the rupture of young Locksley's engagement with Miss Leary? This event made some noise in
its day. Both parties possessed certain claims to distinction: Locksley in his wealth, which
was believed to be enormous, and the young lady in her beauty, which was in truth very great.
I used to hear that her lover was fond of comparing her to the Venus of Milo; and, indeed,
if you can imagine the mutilated goddess with her full complement of limbs, dressed out by
Madame de Crinoline, and engaged in small talk beneath the drawing-room chandelier, you may
obtain a vague notion of Miss Josephine Leary. Locksley, you remember, was rather a short man,
dark, and not particularly good-looking; and when he walked about with his betrothed, it was
half a matter of surprise that he should have ventured to propose to a young lady of such heroic
proportions. Miss Leary had the gray eyes and auburn hair which I have always assigned to the
famous statue. The one defect in her face, in spite of an expression of great candor and sweetness,
was a certain lack of animation. What it was besides her beauty that attracted Locksley I never
discovered: perhaps, since his attachment was so short-lived, it was her beauty alone. I say
that his attachment was of brief duration, because the rupture was understood to have come
from him. Both he and Miss Leary very wisely held their tongues on the matter; but among their
friends and enemies it of course received a hundred explanations. That most popular with Locksley's
well-wishers was, that he had backed out (these events are discussed, you know, in fashionable
circles very much as an expected prize-fight which has miscarried is canvassed in reunions
of another kind) only on flagrant evidence of the lady's--what, faithlessness?--on overwhelming
proof of the most mercenary spirit on the part of Miss Leary. You see, our friend was held
capable of doing battle for an "idea." It must be owned that this was a novel charge; but,
for myself, having long known Mrs. Leary, the mother, who was a widow with four daughters,
to be an inveterate old screw, I took the liberty of accrediting the existence of a similar
propensity in her eldest born. I suppose that the young lady's family had, on their own side,
a very plausible version of their disappointment. It was, however, soon made up to them by
Josephine's marriage with a gentleman of expectations very nearly as brilliant as those of
her old suitor. And what was his compensation? That is precisely my story.

Locksley disappeared, as you will remember from public view. The events above alluded to happened
in March. On calling at his lodgings in April, I was told he had gone to the "country." But
towards the last of May I met him. He told me that he was on the look-out for a quiet, unfrequented
place on the sea-shore, where he might rusticate and sketch. He was looking very poorly. I
suggested Newport, and I remember he hardly had the energy to smile at the simple joke. We
parted without my having been able to satisfy him, and for a very long time I quite lost sight
of him. He died seven years ago, at the age of thirty-five. For five years, accordingly, he
managed to shield his life from the eyes of men. Through circumstances which I need not detail,
a large portion of his personal property has come into my hands. You will remember that he
was a man of what are called elegant tastes: that is, he was seriously interested in arts and
letters. He wrote some very bad poetry, but he produced a number of remarkable paintings. He
left a mass of papers on all subjects, few of which are adapted to be generally interesting.
A portion of them, however, I highly prize,--that which constitutes his private diary. It extends
from his twenty-fifth to his thirtieth year, at which period it breaks off suddenly. If you
will come to my house, I will show you such of his pictures and sketches as I possess, and,
I trust, convert you to my opinion that he had in him the stuff of a great painter. Meanwhile
I will place before you the last hundred pages of his diary, as an answer to your inquiry regarding
the ultimate view taken by the great Nemesis of his treatment of Miss Leary,--his scorn of
the magnificent Venus Victrix. The recent decease of the one person who had a voice paramount
to mine in the disposal of Locksley's effects enables me to act without reserve.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cragthorpe, June 9th.--I have been sitting some minutes, pen in hand, pondering whether on
this new earth, beneath this new sky, I had better resume these occasional records of my idleness.
I think I will at all events make the experiment. If we fail, as Lady Macbeth remarks, we fail.
I find my entries have been longest when my life has been dullest. I doubt not, therefore,
that, once launched into the monotony of village life, I shall sit scribbling from morning
till night. If nothing happens--But my prophetic soul tells me that something will happen.
I am determined that something shall,--if it be nothing else than that I paint a picture.

When I came up to bed half an hour ago, I was deadly sleepy. Now, after looking out of the
window a little while, my brain is strong and clear, and I feel as if I could write till morning.
But, unfortunately, I have nothing to write about. And then, if I expect to rise early, I must
turn in betimes. The whole village is asleep, godless metropolitan that I am! The lamps on
the square without flicker in the wind; there is nothing abroad but the blue darkness and the
smell of the rising tide. I have spent the whole day on my legs, trudging from one side of
the peninsula to the other. What a trump is old Mrs. M----, to have thought of this place!
I must write her a letter of passionate thanks. Never before, it seems to me, have I known
pure coast-scenery. Never before have I relished the beauties of wave, rock, and cloud. I am
filled with a sensuous ecstasy at the unparalleled life, light, and transparency of the air.
I am stricken mute with reverent admiration at the stupendous resources possessed by the ocean
in the way of color and sound; and as yet, I suppose, I have not seen half of them. I came
in to supper hungry, weary, footsore, sunburnt, dirty,--happier, in short, than I have been
for a twelvemonth. And now for the victories of the brush!

       *       *       *       *       *

June 11th.--Another day afoot and also afloat. I resolved this morning to leave this abominable
little tavern. I can't stand my feather-bed another night. I determined to find some other
prospect than the town-pump and the "drug-store." I questioned my host, after breakfast, as
to the possibility of getting lodgings in any of the outlying farms and cottages. But my host
either did not or would not know anything about the matter. So I resolved to wander forth and
seek my fortune,--to roam inquisitive through the neighborhood, and appeal to the indigenous
sentiment of hospitality. But never did I see a folk so devoid of this amiable quality. By
dinner-time I had given up in despair. After dinner I strolled down to the harbor, which is
close at hand. The brightness and breeziness of the water tempted me to hire a boat and resume
my explorations. I procured an old tub, with a short stump of a mast, which, being planted
quite in the centre, gave the craft much the appearance of an inverted mushroom. I made for
what I took to be, and what is, an island, lying long and low, some three or four miles, over
against the town. I sailed for half an hour directly before the wind, and at last found myself
aground on the shelving beach of a quiet little cove. Such a little cove! So bright, so still,
so warm, so remote from the town, which lay off in the distance, white and semicircular! I
leaped ashore, and dropped my anchor. Before me rose a steep cliff, crowned with an old ruined
fort or tower. I made my way up, and about to the landward entrance. The fort is a hollow old
shell. Looking upward from the beach, you see the harmless blue sky through the gaping loopholes.
Its interior is choked with rocks and brambles, and masses of fallen masonry. I scrambled up
to the parapet, and obtained a noble sea-view. Beyond the broad bay I saw miniature town and
country mapped out before me; and on the other hand, I saw the infinite Atlantic,--over which,
by the by, all the pretty things are brought from Paris. I spent the whole afternoon in wandering
hither and thither over the hills that encircle the little cove in which I had landed, heedless
of the minutes and my steps, watching the sailing clouds and the cloudy sails on the horizon,
listening to the musical attrition of the tidal pebbles, killing innocuous suckers. The only
particular sensation I remember was that of being ten years old again, together with a general
impression of Saturday afternoon, of the liberty to go in wading or even swimming, and of the
prospect of limping home in the dusk with a wondrous story of having almost caught a turtle.
When I returned, I found--but I know very well what I found, and I need hardly repeat it here
for my mortification. Heaven knows I never was a practical character. What thought I about
the tide? There lay the old tub, high and dry, with the rusty anchor protruding from the flat
green stones and the shallow puddles left by the receding wave. Moving the boat an inch, much
more a dozen yards, was quite beyond my strength. I slowly reascended the cliff, to see if
from its summit any help was discernible. None was within sight; and I was about to go down
again in profound dejection, when I saw a trim little sail-boat shoot out from behind a neighboring
bluff, and advance along the shore. I quickened pace. On reaching the beach, I found the new-comer
standing out about a hundred yards. The man at the helm appeared to regard me with some interest.
With a mute prayer that his feeling might be akin to compassion, I invited him by voice and
gesture to make for a little point of rocks a short distance above us, where I proceeded to
join him. I told him my story, and he readily took me aboard. He was a civil old gentleman,
of the seafaring sort, who appeared to be cruising about in the evening breeze for his pleasure.
On landing, I visited the proprietor of my old tub, related my misadventure, and offered to
pay damages, if the boat shall turn out in the morning to have sustained any. Meanwhile, I
suppose, it is held secure against the next tidal revolution, however insidious.--But for my
old gentleman. I have decidedly picked up an acquaintance, if not made a friend. I gave him
a very good cigar; and before we reached home, we had become thoroughly intimate. In exchange
for my cigar, he gave me his name; and there was that in his tone which seemed to imply that
I had by no means the worst of the bargain. His name is Richard Blunt, "though most people,"
he added, "call me Captain, for short." He then proceeded to inquire my own titles and pretensions.
I told him no lies, but I told him only half the truth; and if he chooses to indulge mentally
in any romantic understatements, why, he is welcome, and bless his simple heart! The fact is,
that I have broken with the past. I have decided, coolly and calmly, as I believe, that it
is necessary to my success, or, at any rate, to my happiness, to abjure for a while my conventional
self, and to assume a simple, natural character. How can a man be simple and natural who is
known to have a hundred thousand a year? That is the supreme curse. It's bad enough to have
it: to be known to have it, to be known only because you have it, is most damnable. I suppose
I am too proud to be successfully rich. Let me see how poverty will serve my turn. I have taken
a fresh start. I have determined to stand upon my own merits. If they fail me, I shall fall
back upon my millions; but with God's help I will test them, and see what kind of stuff I am
made of. To be young, to be strong, to be poor,--such, in this blessed nineteenth century,
is the great basis of solid success. I have resolved to take at least one brief draught from
the pure founts of inspiration of my time. I replied to the Captain with such reservations
as a brief survey of these principles dictated. What a luxury to pass in a poor man's mind
for his brother! I begin to respect myself. Thus much the Captain knows: that I am an educated
man, with a taste for painting; that I have come hither for the purpose of cultivating this
taste by the study of coast scenery, and for my health. I have reason to believe, moreover,
that he suspects me of limited means and of being a good deal of an economist Amen! Vogue la
galère! But the point of my story is in his very hospitable offer of lodgings. I had been telling
him of my ill success of the morning in the pursuit of the same. He is an odd union of the
gentleman of the old school and the old-fashioned, hot-headed merchant-captain. I suppose that
certain traits in these characters are readily convertible.

"Young man," said he, after taking several meditative puffs of his cigar, "I don't see the
point of your living in a tavern, when there are folks about you with more house-room than
they know what to do with. A tavern is only half a house, just as one of these new-fashioned
screw-propellers is only half a ship. Suppose you walk round and take a look at my place. I
own quite a respectable house over yonder to the left of the town. Do you see that old wharf
with the tumble-down warehouses, and the long row of elms behind it? I live right in the midst
of the elms. We have the dearest little garden in the world, stretching down to the water's
edge. It's all as quiet as anything can be, short of a graveyard. The back windows, you know,
overlook the harbor; and you can see twenty miles up the bay, and fifty miles out to sea. You
can paint to yourself there the livelong day, with no more fear of intrusion than if you were
out yonder at the light-ship. There's no one but myself and my daughter, who's a perfect lady,
Sir. She teaches music in a young ladies' school. You see, money's an object, as they say.
We have never taken boarders yet, because none ever came in our track; but I guess we can learn
the ways. I suppose you've boarded before; you can put us up to a thing or two."

There was something so kindly and honest in the old man's weather-beaten face, something so
friendly in his address, that I forthwith struck a bargain with him, subject to his daughter's
approval, I am to have her answer to-morrow. This same daughter strikes me as rather a dark
spot in the picture. Teacher in a young ladies' school,--probably the establishment of which
Mrs. M---- spoke to me. I suppose she's over thirty. I think I know the species.

       *       *       *       *       *

June 12th, A. M.--I have really nothing to do but to scribble. "Barkis is willing." Captain
Blunt brought me word this morning that his daughter smiles propitious. I am to report this
evening; but I shall send my slender baggage in an hour or two.

P. M.--Here I am, housed. The house is less than a mile from the inn, and reached by a very
pleasant road, skirting the harbor. At about six o'clock I presented myself. Captain Blunt
had described the place. A very civil old negress admitted me, and ushered me into the garden,
where I found my friends watering their flowers. The old man was in his house-coat and slippers.
He gave me a cordial welcome. There is something delightfully easy in his manners,--and in
Miss Blunt's, too, for that matter. She received me very nicely. The late Mrs. Blunt was probably
a well-bred woman. As for Miss Blunt's being thirty, she is about twenty-four; She wore a fresh
white dress, with a violet ribbon at her neck, and a rosebud in her button-hole,--or whatever
corresponds thereto on the feminine bosom. I thought I discerned in this costume a vague intention
of courtesy, of deference, of celebrating my arrival. I don't believe Miss Blunt wears white
muslin every day. She shook hands with me, and made me a very frank little speech about her
hospitality. "We have never had any inmates before," said she; "and we are consequently new
to the business. I don't know what you expect. I hope you don't expect a great deal. You must
ask for anything you want. If we can give it, we shall be very glad to do so; if we can't,
I give you warning that we shall refuse outright." Bravo, Miss Blunt! The best of it is, that
she is decidedly beautiful,--and in the grand manner: tall, and rather plump. What is the orthodox
description of a pretty girl?--white and red? Miss Blunt is not a pretty girl, she is a handsome
woman. She leaves an impression of black and red; that is, she is a florid brunette. She has
a great deal of wavy black hair, which encircles her head like a dusky glory, a smoky halo.
Her eyebrows, too, are black, but her eyes themselves are of a rich blue gray, the color of
those slate-cliffs which I saw yesterday, weltering under the tide. Her mouth, however, is
her strong point. It is very large, and contains the finest row of teeth in all this weary
world. Her smile is eminently intelligent. Her chin is full, and somewhat heavy. All this is
a tolerable catalogue, but no picture. I have been tormenting my brain to discover whether
it was her coloring or her form that impressed me most. Fruitless speculation! Seriously, I
think it was neither; it was her movement. She walks a queen. It was the conscious poise of
her head, the unconscious "hang" of her arms, the careless grace and dignity with which she
lingered along the garden-path, smelling a red red rose! She has very little to say, apparently;
but when she speaks, it is to the point, and if the point suggests it, with a very sweet smile.
Indeed, if she is not talkative, it is not from timidity. Is it from indifference? Time will
elucidate this, as well as other matters. I cling to the hypothesis that she is amiable. She
is, moreover, intelligent; she is probably quite reserved; and she is possibly very proud.
She is, in short, a woman of character. There you are, Miss Blunt, at full length,--emphatically
the portrait of a lady. After tea, she gave us some music in the parlor. I confess that I was
more taken with the picture of the dusky little room, lighted by the single candle on the piano,
and by the effect of Miss Blunt's performance, than with its meaning. She appears to possess
a very brilliant touch.

       *       *       *       *       *

June 18th.--I have now been here almost a week. I occupy two very pleasant rooms. My painting-room
is a vast and rather bare apartment, with a very good southern light. I have decked it out
with a few old prints and sketches, and have already grown very fond of it. When I had disposed
my artistic odds and ends in as picturesque a fashion as possible, I called in my hosts. The
Captain looked about silently for some moments, and then inquired hopefully if I had ever tried
my hand at a ship. On learning that I had not yet got to ships, he relapsed into a deferential
silence. His daughter smiled and questioned very graciously, and called everything beautiful
and delightful; which rather disappointed me, as I had taken her to be a woman of some originality.
She is rather a puzzle;--or is she, indeed, a very commonplace person, and the fault in me,
who am forever taking women to mean a great deal more than their Maker intended? Regarding
Miss Blunt I have collected a few facts. She is not twenty-four, but twenty-seven years old.
She has taught music ever since she was twenty, in a large boarding-school just out of the
town, where she originally got her education. Her salary in this establishment, which is, I
believe, a tolerably flourishing one, and the proceeds of a few additional lessons, constitute
the chief revenues of the household. But Blunt fortunately owns his house, and his needs and
habits are of the simplest kind. What does he or his daughter know of the great worldly theory
of necessities, the great worldly scale of pleasures? Miss Blunt's only luxuries are a subscription
to the circulating library, and an occasional walk on the beach, which, like one of Miss Bronté's
heroines, she paces in company with an old Newfoundland dog. I am afraid she is sadly ignorant.
She reads nothing but novels. I am bound to believe, however, that she has derived from the
perusal of these works a certain practical science of her own. "I read all the novels I can
get," she said yesterday; "but I only like the good ones. I do so like Zanoni, which I have
just finished." I must set her to work at some of the masters. I should like some of those
fretful New-York heiresses to see how this woman lives. I wish, too, that half a dozen of ces
messieurs of the clubs might take a peep at the present way of life of their humble servant.
We breakfast at eight o'clock. Immediately afterwards, Miss Blunt, in a shabby old bonnet and
shawl, starts off to school. If the weather is fine, the Captain goes out a-fishing, and I
am left to my own devices. Twice I have accompanied the old man. The second time I was lucky
enough to catch a big blue-fish, which we had for dinner. The Captain is an excellent specimen
of the sturdy navigator, with his loose blue clothes, his ultra-divergent legs, his crisp white
hair, and his jolly thick-skinned visage. He comes of a seafaring English race. There is more
or less of the ship's cabin in the general aspect of this antiquated house. I have heard the
winds whistle about its walls, on two or three occasions, in true mid-ocean style. And then
the illusion is heightened, somehow or other, by the extraordinary intensity of the light.
My painting-room is a grand observatory of the clouds. I sit by the half-hour, watching them
sail past my high, uncurtained windows. At the back part of the room, something tells you that
they belong to an ocean sky; and there, in truth, as you draw nearer, you behold the vast,
gray complement of sea. This quarter of the town is perfectly quiet. Human activity seems to
have passed over it, never again to return, and to have left a kind of deposit of melancholy
resignation. The streets are clean, bright, and airy; but this fact seems only to add to the
intense sobriety. It implies that the unobstructed heavens are in the secret of their decline.
There is something ghostly in the perpetual stillness. We frequently hear the rattling of the
yards and the issuing of orders on the barks and schooners anchored out in the harbor.

       *       *       *       *       *

June 28th.--My experiment works far better than I had hoped. I am thoroughly at my ease; my
peace of mind quite passeth understanding. I work diligently; I have none but pleasant thoughts.
The past has almost lost its terrors. For a week now I have been out sketching daily. The Captain
carries me to a certain point on the shore of the harbor, I disembark and strike across the
fields to a spot where I have established a kind of rendezvous with a particular effect of
rock and shadow, which has been tolerably faithful to its appointment. Here I set up my easel,
and paint till sunset. Then I retrace my steps and meet the boat. I am in every way much encouraged.
The horizon of my work grows perceptibly wider. And then I am inexpressibly happy in the conviction
that I am not wholly unfit for a life of (moderate) labor and (comparative) privation. I am
quite in love with my poverty, if I may call it so. As why should I not? At this rate I don't
spend eight hundred a year.

       *       *       *       *       *

July 12th.--We have been having a week of bad weather: constant rain, night and day. This is
certainly at once the brightest and the blackest spot in New England. The skies can smile,
assuredly; but how they can frown! I have been painting rather languidly, and at a great disadvantage,
at my window.... Through all this pouring and pattering, Miss Blunt sallies forth to her pupils.
She envelops her beautiful head in a great woollen hood, her beautiful figure in a kind of
feminine Mackintosh; her feet she puts into heavy clogs, and over the whole she balances a
cotton umbrella. When she comes home, with the rain-drops glistening on her red cheeks and
her dark lashes, her cloak bespattered with mud, and her hands red with the cool damp, she
is a profoundly wholesome spectacle. I never fail to make her a very low bow, for which she
repays me with an extraordinary smile. This working-day side of her character is what especially
pleases me in Miss Blunt. This holy working-dress of loveliness and dignity sits upon her with
the simplicity of an antique drapery. Little use has she for whalebones and furbelows. What
a poetry there is, after all, in red hands! I kiss yours, Mademoiselle. I do so because you
are self-helpful; because you earn your living; because you are honest, simple, and ignorant
(for a sensible woman, that is); because you speak and act to the point; because, in short,
you are so unlike--certain of your sisters.

       *       *       *       *       *

July 16th.--On Monday it cleared up generously. When I went to my window, on rising, I found
sky and sea looking, for their brightness and freshness, like a clever English water-color.
The ocean is of a deep purple blue; above it, the pure, bright sky looks pale, though it bends
with an infinite depth over the inland horizon. Here and there on the dark breezy water gleams
the white cap of a wave, or flaps the white cloak of a fishing-boat. I have been sketching
sedulously; I have discovered, within a couple of miles' walk, a large, lonely pond, set in
quite a grand landscape of barren rocks and grassy slopes. At one extremity is a broad outlook
on the open sea; at the other, deep buried in the foliage of an apple-orchard, stands an old
haunted-looking farm-house. To the west of the pond is a wide expanse of rock and grass, of
beach and marsh. The sheep browse over it as upon a Highland moor. Except a few stunted firs
and cedars, there is not a tree in sight. When I want shade, I seek it in the shelter of one
of the great mossy boulders which upheave their scintillating shoulders to the sun, or of the
long shallow dells where a tangle of blackberry-bushes hedges about a sky-reflecting pool.
I have encamped over against a plain, brown hillside, which, with laborious patience, I am
transferring to canvas; and as we have now had the same clear sky for several days, I have
almost finished quite a satisfactory little study. I go forth immediately after breakfast.
Miss Blunt furnishes me with a napkin full of bread and cold meat, which at the noonday hours,
in my sunny solitude, within sight of the slumbering ocean, I voraciously convey to my lips
with my discolored fingers. At seven o'clock I return to tea, at which repast we each tell
the story of our day's work. For poor Miss Blunt, it is day after day the same story: a wearisome
round of visits to the school, and to the houses of the mayor, the parson, the butcher, the
baker, whose young ladies, of course, all receive instruction on the piano. But she doesn't
complain, nor, indeed, does she look very weary. When she has put on a fresh calico dress for
tea, and arranged her hair anew, and with these improvements flits about with that quiet hither
and thither of her gentle footsteps, preparing our evening meal, peeping into the teapot, cutting
the solid loaf,--or when, sitting down on the low door-step, she reads out select scraps from
the evening paper,--or else, when, tea being over, she folds her arms, (an attitude which becomes
her mightily,) and, still sitting on the door-step, gossips away the evening in comfortable
idleness, while her father and I indulge in the fragrant pipe, and watch the lights shining
out, one by one, in different quarters of the darkling bay: at these moments she is as pretty,
as cheerful, as careless as it becomes a sensible woman to be. What a pride the Captain takes
in his daughter! And she, in return, how perfect is her devotion to the old man! He is proud
of her grace, of her tact, of her good sense, of her wit, such as it is. He thinks her to be
the most accomplished of women. He waits upon her as if, instead of his old familiar Esther,
she were a newly inducted daughter-in-law. And indeed, if I were his own son, he could not
be kinder to me. They are certainly--nay, why should I not say it?--we are certainly a very
happy little household. Will it last forever? I say we, because both father and daughter have
given me a hundred assurances--he direct, and she, if I don't flatter myself, after the manner
of her sex, indirect--that I am already a valued friend. It is natural enough that I should
have gained their good-will. They have received at my hands inveterate courtesy. The way to
the old man's heart is through a studied consideration of his daughter. He knows, I imagine,
that I admire Miss Blunt. But if I should at any time fall below the mark of ceremony, I should
have an account to settle with him. All this is as it should be. When people have to economize
with the dollars and cents, they have a right to be splendid in their feelings. I have prided
myself not a little on my good manners towards my hostess. That my bearing has been without
reproach is, however, a fact which I do not, in any degree, set down here to my credit; for
I would defy the most impertinent of men (whoever he is) to forget himself with this young
lady, without leave unmistakably given. Those deep, dark eyes have a strong prohibitory force.
I record the circumstance simply because in future years, when my charming friend shall have
become a distant shadow, it will be pleasant, in turning over these pages, to find written
testimony to a number of points which I shall be apt to charge solely upon my imagination.
I wonder whether Miss Blunt, in days to come, referring to the tables of her memory for some
trivial matter-of-fact, some prosaic date or half-buried landmark, will also encounter this
little secret of ours, as I may call it,--will decipher an old faint note to this effect, overlaid
with the memoranda of intervening years. Of course she will. Sentiment aside, she is a woman
of an excellent memory. Whether she forgives or not I know not; but she certainly doesn't forget.
Doubtless, virtue is its own reward; but there is a double satisfaction in being polite to
a person on whom it tells. Another reason for my pleasant relations with the Captain is, that
I afford him a chance to rub up his rusty old cosmopolitanism, and trot out his little scraps
of old-fashioned reading, some of which are very curious. It is a great treat for him to spin
his threadbare yarns over again to a sympathetic listener. These warm July evenings, in the
sweet-smelling garden, are just the proper setting for his amiable garrulities. An odd enough
relation subsists between us on this point. Like many gentlemen of his calling, the Captain
is harassed by an irresistible desire to romance, even on the least promising themes; and it
is vastly amusing to observe how he will auscultate, as it were, his auditor's inmost mood,
to ascertain whether it is prepared for the absorption of his insidious fibs. Sometimes they
perish utterly in the transition: they are very pretty, I conceive, in the deep and briny well
of the Captain's fancy; but they won't bear being transplanted into the shallow inland lakes
of my land-bred apprehension. At other times, the auditor being in a dreamy, sentimental, and
altogether unprincipled mood, he will drink the old man's salt-water by the bucketful and feel
none the worse for it. Which is the worse, wilfully to tell, or wilfully to believe, a pretty
little falsehood which will not hurt any one? I suppose you can't believe wilfully; you only
pretend to believe. My part of the game, therefore, is certainly as bad as the Captain's. Perhaps
I take kindly to his beautiful perversions of fact, because I am myself engaged in one, because
I am sailing under false colors of the deepest dye. I wonder whether my friends have any suspicion
of the real state of the case. How should they? I fancy, that, on the whole, I play my part
pretty well. I am delighted to find it come so easy. I do not mean that I experience little
difficulty in foregoing my hundred petty elegancies and luxuries,--for to these, thank Heaven,
I was not so indissolubly wedded that one wholesome shock could not loosen my bonds,--but that
I manage more cleverly than I expected to stifle those innumerable tacit allusions which might
serve effectually to belie my character.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sunday, July 20th.--This has been a very pleasant day for me; although in it, of course, I
have done no manner of work. I had this morning a delightful tête-à-tête with my hostess. She
had sprained her ankle, coming down stairs; and so, instead of going forth to Sunday school
and to meeting, she was obliged to remain at home on the sofa. The Captain, who is of a very
punctilious piety, went off alone. When I came into the parlor, as the church-bells were ringing,
Miss Blunt asked me if I never went to meeting.

"Never when there is anything better to do at home," said I.

"What is better than going to church?" she asked, with charming simplicity.

She was reclining on the sofa, with her foot on a pillow, and her Bible in her lap. She looked
by no means afflicted at having to be absent from divine service; and, instead of answering
her question, I took the liberty of telling her so.

"I am sorry to be absent," said she. "You know it's my only festival in the week."

"So you look upon it as a festival," said I.

"Isn't it a pleasure to meet one's acquaintance? I confess I am never deeply interested in
the sermon, and I very much dislike teaching the children; but I like wearing my best bonnet,
and singing in the choir, and walking part of the way home with"----

"With whom?"

"With any one who offers to walk with me."

"With Mr. Johnson, for instance," said I.

Mr. Johnson is a young lawyer in the village, who calls here once a week, and whose attentions
to Miss Blunt have been remarked.

"Yes," she answered, "Mr. Johnson will do as an instance."

"How he will miss you!"

"I suppose he will. We sing off the same book. What are you laughing at? He kindly permits
me to hold the book, while he stands with his hands in his pockets. Last Sunday I quite lost
patience. 'Mr. Johnson,' said I, 'do hold the book! Where are your manners?' He burst out laughing
in the midst of the reading. He will certainly have to hold the book to-day."

"What a 'masterful soul' he is! I suppose he will call after meeting."

"Perhaps he will. I hope so."

"I hope he won't," said I, roundly, "I am going to sit down here and talk to you, and I wish
our tête-à-tête not to be interrupted."

"Have you anything particular to say?"

"Nothing so particular as Mr. Johnson, perhaps."

Miss Blunt has a very pretty affectation of being more matter-of-fact than she really is.

"His rights, then," said she, "are paramount to yours."

"Ah, you admit that he has rights?"

"Not at all. I simply assert that you have none."

"I beg your pardon. I have claims which I mean to enforce. I have a claim upon your undivided
attention, when I pay you a morning call."

"Your claim is certainly answered. Have I been uncivil, pray?"

"Not uncivil, perhaps, but inconsiderate. You have been sighing for the company of a third
person, which you can't expect me to relish."

"Why not, pray? If I, a lady, can put up with Mr. Johnson's society, why shouldn't you, one
of his own sex?"

"Because he is so outrageously conceited. You, as a lady, or at any rate as a woman, like conceited
men."

"Ah, yes; I have no doubt that I, as a woman, have all kinds of improper tastes. That's an
old story."

"Admit, at any rate, that our friend is conceited."

"Admit it? Why, I have said so a hundred times. I have told him so."

"Indeed! It has come to that, then?"

"To what, pray?"

"To that critical point in the friendship of a lady and gentleman, when they bring against
each other all kinds of delightful charges of moral obliquity. Take care, Miss Blunt! A couple
of intelligent New-Englanders, of opposite sex, young, unmarried, are pretty far gone, when
they begin morally to reprobate each other. So you told Mr. Johnson that he is conceited? And
I suppose you added, that he was also dreadfully satirical and skeptical? What was his rejoinder?
Let me see. Did he ever tell you that you were a little bit affected?"

"No: he left that for you to say, in this very ingenious manner. Thank you, Sir."

"He left it for me to deny, which is a great deal prettier. Do you think the manner ingenious?"

"I think the matter, considering the day and hour, very profane, Mr. Locksley. Suppose you
go away and let me read my Bible."

"Meanwhile," I asked, "what shall I do?"

"Go and read yours, if you have one."

"I haven't."

I was nevertheless compelled to retire, with the promise of a second audience in half an hour.
Poor Miss Blunt owes it to her conscience to read a certain number of chapters. What a pure
and upright soul she is! And what an edifying spectacle is much of our feminine piety! Women
find a place for everything in their commodious little minds, just as they do in their wonderfully
subdivided trunks, when they go on a journey. I have no doubt that this young lady stows away
her religion in a corner, just as she does her Sunday bonnet,--and, when the proper moment
comes, draws it forth, and reflects while she assumes it before the glass, and blows away the
strictly imaginary dust; for what worldly impurity can penetrate through half a dozen layers
of cambric and tissue-paper? Dear me, what a comfort it is to have a nice, fresh, holiday faith!--When
I returned to the parlor, Miss Blunt was still sitting with her Bible in her lap. Somehow or
other, I no longer felt in the mood for jesting. So I asked her soberly what she had been reading.
Soberly she answered me. She inquired how I had spent my half-hour.

"In thinking good Sabbath thoughts," I said. "I have been walking in the garden." And then
I spoke my mind. "I have been thanking Heaven that it has led me, a poor, friendless wanderer,
into so peaceful an anchorage."

"Are you, then, so poor and friendless?" asked Miss Blunt, quite abruptly.

"Did you ever hear of an art-student under thirty who wasn't poor?" I answered. "Upon my word,
I have yet to sell my first picture. Then, as for being friendless, there are not five people
in the world who really care for me."

"Really care? I am afraid you look too close. And then I think five good friends is a very
large number. I think myself very well off with a couple. But if you are friendless, it's probably
your own fault."

"Perhaps it is," said I, sitting down in the rocking-chair; "and yet, perhaps, it isn't. Have
you found me so very repulsive? Haven't you, on the contrary, found me rather sociable?"

She folded her arms, and quietly looked at me for a moment, before answering. I shouldn't wonder
if I blushed a little.

"You want a compliment, Mr. Locksley; that's the long and short of it. I have not paid you
a compliment since you have been here. How you must have suffered! But it's a pity you couldn't
have waited awhile longer, instead of beginning to angle with that very clumsy bait. For an
artist, you are very inartistic. Men never know how to wait. 'Have I found you repulsive? haven't
I found you sociable?' Perhaps, after all, considering what I have in my mind, it is as well
that you asked for your compliment. I have found you charming. I say it freely; and yet I say,
with equal sincerity, that I fancy very few others would find you so. I can say decidedly that
you are not sociable. You are entirely too particular. You are considerate of me, because you
know that I know that you are so. There's the rub, you see: I know that you know that I know
it. Don't interrupt me; I am going to be eloquent. I want you to understand why I don't consider
you sociable. You call Mr. Johnson conceited; but, really, I don't believe he's nearly as conceited
as yourself. You are too conceited to be sociable; he is not. I am an obscure, weak-minded
woman,--weak-minded, you know, compared with men. I can be patronized,--yes, that's the word.
Would you be equally amiable with a person as strong, as clear-sighted as yourself, with a
person equally averse with yourself to being under an obligation? I think not. Of course it's
delightful to charm people. Who wouldn't? There is no harm in it, as long as the charmer does
not sit up for a public benefactor. If I were a man, a clever man like yourself, who had seen
the world, who was not to be charmed and encouraged, but to be convinced and refuted, would
you be equally amiable? It will perhaps seem absurd to you, and it will certainly seem egotistical,
but I consider myself sociable, for all that I have only a couple of friends,--my father and
the principal of the school. That is, I mingle with women without any second thought. Not that
I wish you to do so: on the contrary, if the contrary is natural to you. But I don't believe
you mingle in the same way with men. You may ask me what I know about it. Of course I know
nothing: I simply guess. When I have done, indeed, I mean to beg your pardon for all I have
said; but until then, give me a chance. You are incapable of listening deferentially to stupid,
bigoted persons. I am not. I do it every day. Ah, you have no idea of what nice manners I have
in the exercise of my profession! Every day I have occasion to pocket my pride and to stifle
my precious sense of the ridiculous,--of which, of course, you think I haven't a bit. It is,
for instance, a constant vexation to me to be poor. It makes me frequently hate rich women;
it makes me despise poor ones. I don't know whether you suffer acutely from the narrowness
of your own means; but if you do, I dare say you shun rich men. I don't. I like to go into
rich people's houses, and to be very polite to the ladies of the house, especially if they
are very well-dressed and ignorant and vulgar. All women are like me in this respect; and all
men more or less like you. That is, after all, the text of my sermon. Compared with us, it
has always seemed to me that you are arrant cowards,--that we alone are brave. To be sociable,
you must have a great deal of pluck. You are too fine a gentleman. Go and teach school, or
open a corner grocery, or sit in a law-office all day, waiting for clients: then you will be
sociable. As yet, you are only agreeable. It is your own fault, if people don't care for you.
You don't care for them. That you should be indifferent to their applause is all very well;
but you don't care for their indifference. You are amiable, you are very kind, and you are
also very lazy. You consider that you are working now, don't you? Many persons would not call
it work."

It was now certainly my turn to fold my arms.

"And now," added my companion, as I did so, "I beg your pardon."

"This was certainly worth waiting for," said I. "I don't know what answer to make. My head
swims. I don't know whether you have been attacking me or praising me. So you advise me to
open a corner grocery, do you?"

"I advise you to do something that will make you a little less satirical. You had better marry,
for instance."

"Je ne demande pas mieux. Will you have me? I can't afford it."

"Marry a rich woman."

I shook my head.

"Why not?" asked Miss Blunt. "Because people would accuse you of being mercenary? What of that?
I mean to marry the first rich man who offers. Do you know that I am tired of living alone
in this weary old way, teaching little girls their gamut, and turning and patching my dresses?
I mean to marry the first man who offers."

"Even if he is poor?"

"Even if he is poor, ugly, and stupid."

"I am your man, then. Would you take me, if I were to offer?"

"Try and see."

"Must I get upon my knees?"

"No, you need not even do that. Am I not on mine? It would be too fine an irony. Remain as
you are, lounging back in your chair, with your thumbs in your waistcoat."

If I were writing a romance now, instead of transcribing facts, I would say that I knew not
what might have happened at this juncture, had not the door opened and admitted the Captain
and Mr. Johnson. The latter was in the highest spirits.

"How are you, Miss Esther? So you have been breaking your leg, eh? How are you, Mr. Locksley?
I wish I were a doctor now. Which is it, right or left?"

In this simple fashion he made himself agreeable to Miss Blunt. He stopped to dinner and talked
without ceasing. Whether our hostess had talked herself out in her very animated address to
myself an hour before, or whether she preferred to oppose no obstacle to Mr. Johnson's fluency,
or whether she was indifferent to him, I know not; but she held her tongue with that easy grace,
that charming tacit intimation of "We could, an we would," of which she is so perfect a mistress.
This very interesting woman has a number of pretty traits in common with her town-bred sisters;
only, whereas in these they are laboriously acquired, in her they are severely natural. I am
sure, that, if I were to plant her in Madison Square to-morrow, she would, after one quick,
all-compassing glance, assume the nil admirari in a manner to drive the greatest lady of them
all to despair. Johnson is a man of excellent intentions, but no taste. Two or three times
I looked at Miss Blunt to see what impression his sallies were making upon her. They seemed
to produce none whatever. But I know better, moi. Not one of them escaped her. But I suppose
she said to herself that her impressions on this point were no business of mine. Perhaps she
was right. It is a disagreeable word to use of a woman you admire; but I can't help fancying
that she has been a little soured. By what? Who shall say? By some old love affair, perhaps.

       *       *       *       *       *

July 24th.--This evening the Captain and I took a half-hour's turn about the harbor. I asked
him frankly, as a friend, whether Johnson wants to marry his daughter.

"I guess he does," said the old man; "and yet I hope he don't. You know what he is: he's smart,
promising, and already sufficiently well off. But somehow he isn't for a man what my Esther
is for a woman."

"That he isn't!" said I; "and honestly, Captain Blunt, I don't know who is"----

"Unless it's yourself," said the Captain.

"Thank you. I know a great many ways in which Mr. Johnson is more worthy of her than I."

"And I know, one in which you are more worthy of her than he,--that is, in being what we used
to call a gentleman."

"Miss Esther made him sufficiently welcome in her quiet way, on Sunday," I rejoined.

"Oh, she respects him," said Blunt. "As she's situated, she might marry him on that. You see,
she's weary of hearing little girls drum on the piano. With her ear for music," added the Captain,
"I wonder she has borne it so long."

"She is certainly meant for better things," said I.

"Well," answered the Captain, who has an honest habit of deprecating your agreement, when it
occurs to him that he has obtained it for sentiments which fall somewhat short of the stoical,--"well,"
said he, with a very dry expression of mouth, "she's born to do her duty. We are all of us
born for that."

"Sometimes our duty is rather dreary," said I.

"So it be; but what's the help for it? I don't want to die without seeing my daughter provided
for. What she makes by teaching is a pretty slim subsistence. There was a time when I thought
she was going to be fixed for life, but it all blew over. There was a young fellow here from
down Boston way, who came about as near to it as you can come, when you actually don't. He
and Esther were excellent friends. One day Esther came up to me, and looked me in the face,
and told me she was engaged.

"'Who to?' says I, though of course I knew, and Esther told me as much. 'When do you expect
to marry?' I asked.

"'When John grows rich enough,' says she.

"'When will that be?'

"'It may not be for years,' said poor Esther.

"A whole year passed, and, as far as I could see, the young man came no nearer to his fortune.
He was forever running to and fro between this place and Boston. I asked no questions, because
I knew that my poor girl wished it so. But at last, one day, I began to think it was time to
take an observation, and see whereabouts we stood.

"'Has John made his fortune yet?' I asked.

"'I don't know, father,' said Esther.

"'When are you to be married?'

"'Never!' said my poor little girl, and burst into tears. 'Please ask me no questions,' said
she. 'Our engagement is over. Ask me no questions.'

"'Tell me one thing,' said I: 'where is that d----d scoundrel who has broken my daughter's heart?'

"You should have seen the look she gave me.

"'Broken my heart, Sir? You are very much mistaken. I don't know who you mean.'

"'I mean John Banister,' said I. That was his name.

"'I believe Mr. Banister is in China,' says Esther, as grand as the Queen of Sheba. And there
was an end of it. I never learnt the ins and outs of it. I have been told that Banister is
accumulating money very fast in the China trade."

       *       *       *       *       *

August 7th.--I have made no entry for more than a fortnight. They tell me I have been very
ill; and I find no difficulty in believing them. I suppose I took cold, sitting out so late,
sketching. At all events, I have had a mild intermittent fever. I have slept so much, however,
that the time has seemed rather short. I have been tenderly nursed by this kind old gentleman,
his daughter, and his maid-servant. God bless them, one and all! I say his daughter, because
old Dorothy informs me that for half an hour one morning, at dawn, after a night during which
I had been very feeble, Miss Blunt relieved guard at my bedside, while I lay wrapt in brutal
slumber. It is very jolly to see sky and ocean once again. I have got myself into my easy-chair
by the open window, with my shutters closed and the lattice open; and here I sit with my book
on my knee, scratching away feebly enough. Now and then I peep from my cool, dark sick-chamber
out into the world of light. High noon at midsummer! What a spectacle! There are no clouds
in the sky, no waves on the ocean. The sun has it all to himself. To look long at the garden
makes the eyes water. And we--"Hobbs, Nobbs, Stokes, and Nokes"--propose to paint that kingdom
of light. Allons, donc!

The loveliest of women has just tapped, and come in with a plate of early peaches. The peaches
are of a gorgeous color and plumpness; but Miss Blunt looks pale and thin. The hot weather
doesn't agree with her. She is overworked. Confound it! Of course I thanked her warmly for
her attentions during my illness. She disclaims all gratitude, and refers me to her father
and Mrs. Dorothy.

"I allude more especially," said I, "to that little hour at the end of a weary night, when
you stole in like a kind of moral Aurora, and drove away the shadows from my brain. That morning,
you know, I began to get better."

"It was indeed a very little hour," said Miss Blunt. "It was about ten minutes." And then she
began to scold me for presuming to touch a pen during my convalescence. She laughs at me, indeed,
for keeping a diary at all. "Of all things," cried she, "a sentimental man is the most despicable."

I confess I was somewhat nettled. The thrust seemed gratuitous.

"Of all things," I answered, "a woman without sentiment is the most unlovely."

"Sentiment and loveliness are all very well, when you have time for them," said Miss Blunt.
"I haven't. I'm not rich enough. Good morning."

Speaking of another woman, I would say that she flounced out of the room. But such was the
gait of Juno, when she moved stiffly over the grass from where Paris stood with Venus holding
the apple, gathering up her divine vestment, and leaving the others to guess at her face----

Juno has just come back to say that she forgot what she came for half an hour ago. What will
I be pleased to like for dinner?

"I have just been writing in my diary that you flounced out of the room," said I.

"Have you, indeed? Now you can write that I have bounced in. There's a nice cold chicken down-stairs,"
etc., etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

August 14th.--This afternoon I sent for a light wagon, and treated Miss Blunt to a drive. We
went successively over the three beaches. What a time we had, coming home! I shall never forget
that hard trot over Weston's Beach. The tide was very low; and we had the whole glittering,
weltering strand to ourselves. There was a heavy blow yesterday, which had not yet subsided;
and the waves had been lashed into a magnificent fury. Trot, trot, trot, trot, we trundled
over the hard sand. The sound of the horse's hoofs rang out sharp against the monotone of the
thunderous surf, as we drew nearer and nearer to the long line of the cliffs. At our left,
almost from the lofty zenith of the pale evening sky to the high western horizon of the tumultuous
dark-green sea, was suspended, so to speak, one of those gorgeous vertical sunsets that Turner
loved so well. It was a splendid confusion of purple and green and gold,--the clouds flying
and flowing in the wind like the folds of a mighty banner borne by some triumphal fleet whose
prows were not visible above the long chain of mountainous waves. As we reached the point where
the cliffs plunge down upon the beach, I pulled up, and we remained for some moments looking
out along the low, brown, obstinate barrier at whose feet the impetuous waters were rolling
themselves into powder.

       *       *       *       *       *

August 17th.--This evening, as I lighted my bedroom candle, I saw that the Captain had something
to say to me. So I waited below until the old man and his daughter had performed their usual
picturesque embrace, and the latter had given me that hand-shake and that smile which I never
failed to exact.

"Johnson has got his discharge," said the old man, when he had heard, his daughter's door close
up-stairs.

"What do you mean?"

He pointed with his thumbs to the room above, where we heard, through the thin partition, the
movement of Miss Blunt's light step.

"You mean that he has proposed to Miss Esther?"

The Captain nodded.

"And has been refused?"

"Flat."

"Poor fellow!" said I, very honestly. "Did he tell you himself?"

"Yes, with tears in his eyes. He wanted me to speak for him. I told him it was no use. Then
he began to say hard things of my poor girl."

"What kind of things?"

"A pack of falsehoods. He says she has no heart. She has promised always to regard him as a
friend: it's more than I will, hang him!"

"Poor fellow!" said I; and now, as I write, I can only repeat, considering what a hope was
here broken, Poor fellow!

       *       *       *       *       *

August 23d.--I have been lounging about all day, thinking of it, dreaming of it, spooning over
it, as they say. This is a decided waste of time. I think, accordingly, the best thing for
me to do is, to sit down and lay the ghost by writing out my story.

On Thursday evening Miss Blunt happened to intimate that she had a holiday on the morrow, it
being the birthday of the lady in whose establishment she teaches.

"There is to be a tea-party at four o'clock in the afternoon for the resident pupils and teachers,"
said Miss Esther. "Tea at four! what do you think of that? And then there is to be a speech-making
by the smartest young lady. As my services are not required, I propose to be absent. Suppose,
father, you take us out in your boat. Will you come, Mr. Locksley? We shall have a nice little
picnic. Let us go over to old Fort Pudding, across the bay. We will take our dinner with us,
and send Dorothy to spend the day with her sister, and put the house-key in our pocket, and
not come home till we please."

I warmly espoused the project, and it was accordingly carried into execution the next morning,
when, at about ten o'clock, we pushed off from our little wharf at the garden-foot. It was
a perfect summer's day: I can say no more for it. We made a quiet run over to the point of
our destination. I shall never forget the wondrous stillness which brooded over earth and water,
as we weighed anchor in the lee of my old friend,--or old enemy,--the ruined fort. The deep,
translucent water reposed at the base of the warm sunlit cliff like a great basin of glass,
which I half expected to hear shiver and crack as our keel ploughed through it. And how color
and sound stood out in the transparent air! How audibly the little ripples on the beach whispered
to the open sky! How our irreverent voices seemed to jar upon the privacy of the little cove!
The mossy rocks doubled themselves without a flaw in the clear, dark water. The gleaming white
beach lay fringed with its deep deposits of odorous sea-weed, gleaming black. The steep, straggling
sides of the cliffs raised aloft their rugged angles against the burning blue of the sky. I
remember, when Miss Blunt stepped ashore and stood upon the beach, relieved against the heavy
shadow of a recess in the cliff, while her father and I busied ourselves with gathering up
our baskets and fastening the anchor--I remember, I say, what a figure she made. There is a
certain purity in this Cragthorpe air which I have never seen approached,--a lightness, a brilliancy,
a crudity, which allows perfect liberty of self-assertion to each individual object in the
landscape. The prospect is ever more or less like a picture which lacks its final process,
its reduction to unity. Miss Blunt's figure, as she stood there on the beach, was almost criarde;
but how lovely it was! Her light muslin dress, gathered up over her short white skirt, her
little black mantilla, the blue veil which she had knotted about her neck, the crimson shawl
which she had thrown over her arm, the little silken dome which she poised over her head in
one gloved hand, while the other retained her crisp draperies, and which cast down upon her
face a sharp circle of shade, out of which her cheerful eyes shone darkly and her happy mouth
smiled whitely,--these are some of the hastily noted points of the picture.

"Young woman," I cried out, over the water, "I do wish you might know how pretty you look!"

"How do you know I don't?" she answered. "I should think I might. You don't look so badly,
yourself. But it's not I; it's the accessories."

"Hang it! I am going to become profane," I called out again.

"Swear ahead," said the Captain.

"I am going to say you are devilish pretty."

"Dear me! is that all?" cried Miss Blunt, with a little light laugh, which must have made the
tutelar sirens of the cove ready to die with jealousy down in their submarine bowers.

By the time the Captain and I had landed our effects, our companion had tripped lightly up
the forehead of the cliff--in one place it is very retreating--and disappeared over its crown.
She soon reappeared with an intensely white handkerchief added to her other provocations, which
she waved to us, as we trudged upward, carrying our baskets. When we stopped to take breath
on the summit, and wipe our foreheads, we of course rebuked her who was roaming about idly
with her parasol and gloves.

"Do you think I am going to take any trouble or do any work?" cried Miss Esther, in the greatest
good-humor. "Is not this my holiday? I am not going to raise a finger, nor soil these beautiful
gloves, for which I paid a dollar at Mr. Dawson's in Cragthorpe. After you have found a shady
place for your provisions, I would like you to look for a spring. I am very thirsty."

"Find the spring yourself, Miss," said her father. "Mr. Locksley and I have a spring in this
basket. Take a pull, Sir."

And the Captain drew forth a stout black bottle.

"Give me a cup, and I will look for some water," said Miss Blunt "Only I'm so afraid of the
snakes! If you hear a scream, you may know it's a snake."

"Screaming snakes!" said I; "that's a new species."

What nonsense it all sounds like now! As we looked about us, shade seemed scarce, as it generally
is, in this region. But Miss Blunt, like the very adroit and practical young person she is,
for all that she would have me believe the contrary, soon discovered a capital cool spring
in the shelter of a pleasant little dell, beneath a clump of firs. Hither, as one of the young
gentlemen who imitate Tennyson would say, we brought our basket, Blunt and I; while Esther
dipped the cup, and held it dripping to our thirsty lips, and laid the cloth, and on the grass
disposed the platters round. I should have to be a poet, indeed, to describe half the happiness
and the silly poetry and purity and beauty of this bright long summer's day. We ate, drank,
and talked; we ate occasionally with our fingers, we drank out of the necks of our bottles,
and we talked with our mouths full, as befits (and excuses) those who talk wild nonsense. We
told stories without the least point. Blunt and I made atrocious puns. I believe, indeed, that
Miss Blunt herself made one little punkin, as I called it. If there had been any superfluous
representative of humanity present, to register the fact, I should say that we made fools of
ourselves. But as there was no fool on hand, I need say nothing about it. I am conscious myself
of having said several witty things, which Miss Blunt understood: in vino veritas. The dear
old Captain twanged the long bow indefatigably. The bright high sun lingered above us the livelong
day, and drowned the prospect with light and warmth. One of these days I mean to paint a picture
which in future ages, when my dear native land shall boast a national school of art, will hang
in the Salon Carré of the great central museum, (located, let us say, in Chicago,) and remind
folks--or rather make them forget--Giorgione, Bordone, and Veronese; A Rural Festival; three
persons feasting under some trees; scene, nowhere in particular; time and hour, problematical.
Female figure, a big brune; young man reclining on his elbow; old man drinking. An empty sky,
with no end of expression. The whole stupendous in color, drawing, feeling. Artist uncertain;
supposed to be Robinson, 1900. That's about the programme.

After dinner the Captain began to look out across the bay, and, noticing the uprising of a
little breeze, expressed a wish to cruise about for an hour or two. He proposed to us to walk
along the shore to a point a couple of miles northward, and there meet the boat. His daughter
having agreed to this proposition, he set off with the lightened pannier, and in less than
half an hour we saw him standing out from shore. Miss Blunt and I did not begin our walk for
a long, long time. We sat and talked beneath the trees. At our feet, a wide cleft in the hills--almost
a glen--stretched down to the silent beach. Beyond lay the familiar ocean-line. But, as many
philosophers have observed, there is an end to all things. At last we got up. Miss Blunt said,
that, as the air was freshening, she believed she would put on her shawl. I helped her to fold
it into the proper shape, and then I placed it on her shoulders, her crimson shawl over her
black silk sack. And then she tied her veil once more about her neck, and gave me her hat to
hold, while she effected a partial redistribution of her hair-pins. By way of being humorous,
I placed her hat on my own head; at which she was kind enough to smile, as with downcast face
and uplifted elbows she fumbled among her braids. And then she shook out the creases of her
dress, and drew on her gloves; and finally she said, "Well!"--that inevitable tribute to time
and morality which follows upon even the mildest forms of dissipation. Very slowly it was that
we wandered down the little glen. Slowly, too, we followed the course of the narrow and sinuous
beach, as it keeps to the foot of the low cliffs. We encountered no sign of human life. Our
conversation I need hardly repeat. I think I may trust it to the keeping of my memory: I think
I shall be likely to remember it. It was all very sober and sensible,--such talk as it is both
easy and pleasant to remember; it was even prosaic,--or, at least, if there was a vein of poetry
in it, I should have defied a listener to put his finger on it. There was no exaltation of
feeling or utterance on either side; on one side, indeed, there was very little utterance.
Am I wrong in conjecturing, however, that there was considerable feeling of a certain quiet
kind? Miss Blunt maintained a rich, golden silence. I, on the other hand, was very voluble.
What a sweet, womanly listener she is!

       *       *       *       *       *

September 1st.--I have been working steadily for a week. This is the first day of autumn. Read
aloud to Miss Blunt a little Wordsworth.

       *       *       *       *       *

September 10th. Midnight.--Worked without interruption,--until yesterday, inclusive, that is.
But with the day now closing--or opening--begins a new era. My poor vapid old diary, at last
you shall hold a fact.

For three days past we have been having damp, chilly weather. Dusk has fallen early. This evening,
after tea, the Captain went into town,--on business, as he said: I believe, to attend some
Poorhouse or Hospital Board. Esther and I went into the parlor. The room seemed cold. She brought
in lamp from the dining-room, and proposed we should have a little fire. I went into the kitchen,
procured an armful of wood, and while she drew the curtains and wheeled up the table, I kindled
a lively, crackling blaze. A fortnight ago she would not have allowed me to do this without
a protest. She would not have offered to do it herself,--not she!--but she would have said
that I was not here to serve, but to be served, and would have pretended to call Dorothy. Of
course I should have had my own way. But we have changed all that. Esther went to her piano,
and I sat down to a book. I read not a word. I sat looking at my mistress, and thinking with
a very uneasy heart. For the first time in our friendship, she had put on a dark, warm dress:
I think it was of the material called alpaca. The first time I saw her she wore a white dress
with a purple neck-ribbon; now she wore a black dress with the same ribbon. That is, I remember
wondering, as I sat there eying her, whether it was the same ribbon, or merely another like
it. My heart was in my throat; and yet I thought of a number of trivialities of the same kind.
At last I spoke.

"Miss Blunt," I said, "do you remember the first evening I passed beneath your roof, last June?"

"Perfectly," she replied, without stopping.

"You played this same piece."

"Yes; I played it very badly, too. I only half knew it. But it is a showy piece, and I wished
to produce an effect. I didn't know then how indifferent you are to music."

"I paid no particular attention to the piece. I was intent upon the performer."

"So the performer supposed."

"What reason had you to suppose so?"

"I'm sure I don't know. Did you ever know a woman to be able to give a reason, when she has
guessed aright?"

"I think they generally contrive to make up a reason, afterwards. Come, what was yours?"

"Well, you stared so hard."

"Fie! I don't believe it. That's unkind."

"You said you wished me to invent a reason. If I really had one, I don't remember it."

"You told me you remembered the occasion in question perfectly."

"I meant the circumstances. I remember what we had for tea; I remember what dress I wore. But
I don't remember my feelings. They were naturally not very memorable."

"What did you say, when your father proposed my coming?"

"I asked how much you would be willing to pay?"

"And then?"

"And then, if you looked 'respectable'."

"And then?"

"That was all. I told father to do as he pleased."

She continued to play. Leaning back in my chair, I continued to look at her. There was a considerable
pause.

"Miss Esther," said I, at last.

"Yes."

"Excuse me for interrupting you so often. But,"--and I got up and went to the piano,--"but
I thank Heaven that it has brought you and me together."

She looked up at me and bowed her head with a little smile, as her hands still wandered over
the keys.

"Heaven has certainly been very good to us," said she.

"How much longer are you going to play?" I asked.

"I'm sure I don't know. As long as you like."

"If you want to do as I like, you will stop immediately."

She let her hands rest on the keys a moment, and gave me a rapid, questioning look. Whether
she found a sufficient answer in my face I know not; but she slowly rose, and, with a very
pretty affectation of obedience, began to close the instrument. I helped her to do so.

"Perhaps you would like to be quite alone," she said. "I suppose your own room is too cold."

"Yes," I answered, "you've hit it exactly. I wish to be alone. I wish to monopolize this cheerful
blaze. Hadn't you better go into the kitchen and sit with the cook? It takes you women to make
such cruel speeches."

"When we women are cruel, Mr. Locksley, it is without knowing it. We are not wilfully so. When
we learn that we have been unkind, we very humbly ask pardon, without even knowing what our
crime has been." And she made me a very low curtsy.

"I will tell you what your crime has been," said I. "Come and sit by the fire. It's rather
a long story."

"A long story? Then let me get my work."

"Confound your work! Excuse me, but I mean it. I want you to listen to me. Believe me, you
will need all your thoughts."

She looked at me steadily a moment, and I returned her glance. During that moment I was reflecting
whether I might silently emphasize my request by laying a lover's hand upon her shoulder. I
decided that I might not. She walked over and quietly seated herself in a low chair by the
fire. Here she patiently folded her arms. I sat down before her.

"With you, Miss Blunt," said I, "one must be very explicit. You are not in the habit of taking
things for granted. You have a great deal of imagination, but you rarely exercise it on the
behalf of other people." I stopped a moment.

"Is that my crime?" asked my companion.

"It's not so much a crime as a vice," said I; "and perhaps not so much a vice as a virtue.
Your crime is, that you are so stone-cold to a poor devil who loves you."

She burst into a rather shrill laugh. I wonder whether she thought I meant Johnson.

"Who are you speaking for, Mr. Locksley?" she asked.

"Are there so many? For myself."

"Honestly?"

"Honestly doesn't begin to express it."

"What is that French phrase that you are forever using? I think I may say, 'Allons, donc!'"

"Let us speak plain English, Miss Blunt."

"'Stone-cold' is certainly very plain English. I don't see the relative importance of the two
branches of your proposition. Which is the principal, and which the subordinate clause,--that
I am stone-cold, as you call it, or that you love me, as you call it?"

"As I call it? What would you have me call it? For God's sake, Miss Blunt, be serious, or I
shall call it something else. Yes, I love you. Don't you believe it?"

"I am open to conviction."

"Thank God!" said I.

And I attempted to take her hand.

"No, no, Mr. Locksley," said she,--"not just yet, if you please."

"Action speaks louder than words," said I.

"There is no need of speaking loud. I hear you perfectly."

"I certainly sha'n't whisper," said I; "although it is the custom, I believe, for lovers to
do so. Will you be my wife?"

"I sha'n't whisper, either, Mr. Locksley. Yes, I will."

And now she put out her hand.--That's my fact.

       *       *       *       *       *

September 12th.--We are to be married within three weeks.

       *       *       *       *       *

September 19th.--I have been in New York a week, transacting business. I got back yesterday.
I find every one here talking about our engagement. Esther tells me that it was talked about
a month ago, and that there is a very general feeling of disappointment that I am not rich.

"Really, if you don't mind it," said I, "I don't see why others should."

"I don't know whether you are rich or not," says Esther; "but I know that I am."

"Indeed! I was not aware that you had a private fortune," etc., etc.

This little farce is repeated in some shape every day. I am very idle. I smoke a great deal,
and lounge about all day, with my hands in my pockets. I am free from that ineffable weariness
of ceaseless giving which I experienced six months ago. I was shorn of my hereditary trinkets
at that period; and I have resolved that this engagement, at all events, shall have no connection
with the shops. I was balked of my poetry once; I sha'n't be a second time. I don't think there
is much danger of this. Esther deals it out with full hands. She takes a very pretty interest
in her simple outfit,--showing me triumphantly certain of her purchases, and making a great
mystery about others, which she is pleased to denominate tablecloths and napkins. Last evening
I found her sewing buttons on a tablecloth. I had heard a great deal of a certain gray silk
dress; and this morning, accordingly, she marched up to me, arrayed in this garment. It is
trimmed with velvet, and hath flounces, a train, and all the modern improvements generally.

"There is only one objection to it," said Esther, parading before the glass in my painting-room:
"I am afraid it is above our station."

"By Jove! I'll paint your portrait in it," said I, "and make our fortune. All the other men
who have handsome wives will bring them to be painted."

"You mean all the women who have handsome dresses," said Esther, with great humility.

Our wedding is fixed for next Thursday. I tell Esther that it will be as little of a wedding,
and as much of a marriage, as possible. Her father and her good friend the schoolmistress alone
are to be present.--My secret oppresses me considerably; but I have resolved to keep it for
the honeymoon, when it may take care of itself. I am harassed with a dismal apprehension, that,
if Esther were to discover it now, the whole thing would be à refaire. I have taken rooms at
a romantic little watering-place called Clifton, ten miles off. The hotel is already quite
free of city-people, and we shall be almost alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

September 28th.--We have been here two days. The little transaction in the church went off
smoothly. I am truly sorry for the Captain. We drove directly over here, and reached the place
at dusk. It was a raw, black day. We have a couple of good rooms, close to the savage sea.
I am nevertheless afraid I have made a mistake. It would perhaps have been wiser to go inland.
These things are not immaterial: we make our own heaven, but we scarcely make our own earth.
I am writing at a little table by the window, looking out on the rocks, the gathering dusk,
and the rising fog. My wife has wandered down to the rocky platform in front of the house.
I can see her from here, bareheaded, in that old crimson shawl, talking to one of the landlord's
little boys. She has just given the little fellow a kiss, bless her heart! I remember her telling
me once that she was very fond of little boys; and, indeed, I have noticed that they are seldom
too dirty for her to take on her knee. I have been reading over these pages for the first time
in--I don't know when. They are filled with her,--even more in thought than in word. I believe
I will show them to her, when she comes in, I will give her the book to read, and sit by her,
watching her face,--watching the great secret dawn upon her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later.--Somehow or other, I can write this quietly enough; but I hardly think I shall ever,
write any more. When Esther came in, I handed her this book.

"I want you to read it," said I.

She turned very pale, and laid it on the table, shaking her head.

"I know it," she said.

"What do you know?"

"That you have a hundred thousand a year. But believe me, Mr. Locksley, I am none the worse
for the knowledge. You intimated in one place in your book that I am born for wealth and splendor.
I believe I am. You pretend to hate your money; but you would not have had me without it. If
you really love me,--and I think you do,--you will not let this make any difference. I am not
such a fool as to attempt to talk here about my sensations. But I remember what I said."

"What do you expect me to do?" I asked. "Shall I call you some horrible name and cast you off?"

"I expect you to show the same courage that I am showing. I never said I loved you. I never
deceived you in that. I said I would be your wife. So I will, faithfully. I haven't so much
heart as you think; and yet, too, I have a great deal more. I am incapable of more than one
deception.--Mercy! didn't you see it? didn't you know it? see that I saw it? know that I knew
it? It was diamond cut diamond. You deceived me; I deceived you. Now that your deception ceases,
mine ceases. Now we are free, with our hundred thousand a year! Excuse me, but it sometimes
comes across me! Now we can be good and honest and true. It was all a make-believe virtue before."

"So you read that thing?" I asked: actually--strange as it may seem--for something to say.

"Yes, while you were ill. It was lying with your pen in it, on the table. I read it because
I suspected. Otherwise I shouldn't have done so."

"It was the act of a false woman," said I.

"A false woman? No,--simply of a woman. I am a woman, Sir." And she began to smile. "Come,
you be a man!"

RIVIERA DI PONENTE.

                            1.

    On this lovely Western Shore, where no tempests rage and roar,
    Over olive-bearing mountains, by the deep and violet sea,
    There, through each long happy day, winding slowly on our way,
    Travellers from across the ocean, toward Italia journeyed we,--
          Each long day, that, richer, fairer,
          Showed the charming Riviera.

                           2.

    There black war-ships doze at anchor, in the Bay of Villa-Franca;
    Eagle-like, gray Esa, clinging to its rocky perch, looks down;
    And upon the mountain dim, ruined, shattered, stern, and grim,
    Turbia sees us through the ages with its austere Roman frown,--
          While we climb, where cooler, rarer
          Breezes sweep the Riviera.

                          3.

    Down the hillside steep and stony, through the old streets of Mentone,
    Quiet, half-forgotten city of a drowsy prince and time,
    Through the mild Italian midnight, rolls upon the wave the moonlight,
    Murmuring in our dreams the cadence of a strange Ligurian rhyme,--
          Rhymes in which each heart is sharer,
          Journeying on the Riviera.

                          4.

    When the morning air comes purer, creeping up in our vettura,
    Eastward gleams a rosy tumult with the rising of the day;
    Toward the north, with gradual changes, steal along the mountain-ranges
    Tender tints of warmer feeling, kissing all their peaks of gray;
          And far south the waters wear a
          Smile along the Riviera.

                          5.

    Helmed with snow, the Alpine giants at invaders look defiance,
    Gazing over nearer summits, with a fixed, mysterious stare,
    Down along the shaded ocean, on whose edge in tremulous motion
    Floats an island, half-transparent, woven out of sea and air;--
          For such visions, shaped of air, are
          Frequent on our Riviera.

                          6.

    He whose mighty earthquake-tread all Europa shook with dread,
    Chief whose infancy was cradled in that old Tyrrhenic isle,
    Joins the shades of trampling legions, bringing from remotest regions
    Gallic fire and Roman valor, Cimbric daring, Moorish guile,
          Guests from every age to share a
          Portion of this Riviera.

                          7.

    Then the Afric brain, whose story fills the centuries with its glory,
    Moulding Gaul and Carthaginian into one all-conquering band,
    With his tuskèd monsters grumbling, 'mid the alien snow-drifts
        stumbling,
    Then, an avalanche of ruin, thundering from that frozen land
          Into vales their sons declare are
          Sunny as our Riviera.

                          8.

    Tired of these, the mighty mother sought among her types another
    Stamp of blended saint and hero, only once on earth before,--
    In the luminous aureole shining from a maiden's soul
    Through four hundred sluggish years; till again on Nizza's shore
          Comes the hero of Caprera
          Born upon our Riviera.

                          9.

    Thus forever, in our musing, comes man's spirit interfusing
    Thought of poet and of hero with the landscape and the sky;
    And this shore, no longer lonely, lives the life of romance only:
    Gauls and Moors and Northern Sea-Kings, all are gliding,
        ghost-like, by.
          So with Nature man is sharer
          Even on the Riviera.

                         10.

    Feeble voice! no longer stammer words which shame the panorama
    Seen from all the mountain-passes of this old Aurelian Way,
    With the shore below us sleeping, and the distant steamer creeping
    From Marseilles to proud Genova, on to Spezzia's famous bay.
          So forever, mia cara,
          Shall we love this Riviera.

DOCTOR JOHNS.

XLVI.

It would have been strange, if Adèle had not some day formed her ideal of a lover. What young
girl, indeed, does not? Who cannot recall the sweet illusions of those tripping youthful years,
when, for the first time, Sir William Wallace strode so gallantly with waving plume and glittering
falchion down the pages of Miss Porter,--when sweet Helen Mar wasted herself in love for the
hero,--when the sun-browned Ivanhoe dashed so grandly into that famous tilting-ground near
to Ashby-de-la-Zouch, and brought the wicked Sir Brian de Bois-Guilbert to a reckoning,--when
we wished the disinherited knight better things than the cold love of the passionless Rowena,
and sighed over the fate of poor Fergus MacIvor? With all these characters, and many other
such, Adèle had made acquaintance, in company with her dear Rose; and by the light of them,
they had fashioned such ideals in their little heads as do not often appear in the flesh. Not
that the two friends always agreed in their dreamy fancies; but for either, a hero must have
been handsome and brave and true and kind and sagacious and learned. If only a few hundred
of men should be patterned after the design of a young girl of sixteen or eighteen, what an
absurd figure we old sinners should cut in the comparison! Yet it is pleasant to reflect that
thousands of fresh young hearts do go on, year after year, conceiving of wonderful excellences
as pertaining to the baser sex; and the knowledge of the fact should, it would seem, give a
little more of animation to our struggles against the deviltries and brutalities of the world.

But the ideal of our friend Adèle had not been constant. Three years back, the open, frank,
brave front which Phil Elderkin wore had almost reached it; and when Rose had said,--as she
was wont to say, in her sisterly pride,--"He's a noble fellow," there had been a little tingling
of the heart in Adèle, which seemed to echo the words. Afterward had come that little glimpse
of the world which her journey and intercourse with Maverick had afforded; and the country
awkwardness of the Elderkins had somehow worked an eclipse of his virtues. Reuben, indeed,
had comeliness, and had caught at that time some of the graces of the city; but Reuben was
a tease, and failed in a certain quality of respect for her, (at least, she fancied it,) in
default of which she met all his favors with a sisterly tenderness, in which there was none
of the reserve that tempts passion to declare itself.

Later, when Reuben so opened the way to her belief, and associated himself so intimately with
the culmination of her religious faith, he seemed to her for a time the very impersonation
of her girlish fancy,--so tender, so true, so trustful. Her religious enthusiasm blended with
and warmed her sentiment; and never had she known such hours of calm enjoyment, or such hopeful
forecast of her worldly future, as in those golden days when the hearts of both were glowing
(or seemed to be) with a common love. It was not that this sentiment in her took any open form
of expression; her instinctive delicacy so kept it under control that she was but half conscious
of its existence. But it was none the less true that the sad young pilgrim, who had been a
brother, and who had unlocked for her the Beautiful Gate, wore a new aspect. Her heart was
full of those glittering estimates of life, which come at rare intervals, in which duties and
affections all seem in delightful accord, working each their task, and glowing through all
the reach of years, until the glow is absorbed in the greater light which shines upon Christian
graves. But Reuben's desertion from the faith broke this phantasm. Her faith, standing higher,
never shook; but the sentiment which grew under its cover found nothing positive whereby to
cling, and perished with the shock. Besides which, her father's injunction came to the support
of her religious convictions, and made her disposition to shake off that empty fancy tenfold
strong. Had Reuben, in those days of his exaltation, made declaration of his attachment, it
would have met with a response that could have admitted of no withdrawal, and her heart would
have been leashed to his, whatever outlawry might threaten him. She thanked Heaven that it
had not been thus. Her ideal was still unstained and unbroken; but it no longer found its type
in the backsliding Reuben. It is doubtful, indeed, if her sentiment at this period, by mere
force of rebound, and encouraged by her native charities and old proclivities, did not rally
about young Elderkin, who had equipped himself with many accomplishments of the world, and
who, if he made no pretensions to the faith she had embraced, manifested an habitual respect
that challenged her gratitude.

As for Reuben, after his enthusiasm of the summer had vanished, he felt a prodigious mortification
in reflecting that Adèle had been so closely the witness of his short-lived hallucination.
It humiliated him bitterly to think that all his religious zeal had proved in her regard but
the empty crackling of a fire of thorns. No matter what may be a youth's sentiment for girlhood,
he never likes it to be witness of anything disparaging to his sturdy resolution and manly
purpose. But Adèle had seen him shake like a reed under the deepest emotions that could give
tone to character; and in his mortification at the thought, he transferred to her a share of
the resentment he felt against himself. It was a relief to treat her with a dignified coolness,
and to meet all her tender inquiries, which she did not forbear, with an icy assurance of manner
that was more than half affected,--yet not unkind, but assiduously and intensely and provokingly
civil.

Seeing this, the Doctor and Miss Eliza had given over any fear of a possibly dangerous interest
on the part of Reuben; and yet keen observers might well have scented a danger in this very
studied indifference, if they reflected that its motive lay exclusively in a mortified pride.
We are not careful to conceal our mortifications from those whose regard we rate humbly.

At any rate, it happened, that, with the coming of the autumn months, Reuben, still floating
drearily on a sea of religious speculation, and veering more and more into open mockery of
the beliefs of all about him, grew weary of his affectations with respect to Adèle. He fretted
under the kindly manner with which she met his august civilities. They did not wound her sensibilities,
as he hoped they might have done. Either this disappointment or the need of relief provoked
a change of tactics. With a sudden zeal that was half earnest and half a freak of vanity, he
devoted himself to Adèle. The father's sympathy with him was just now dead; that of the aunt
had never been kindled to such a degree as to meet his craving; with the Elderkins he was reluctant
to unfold his opinions so far as to demand sympathy. As for Adèle, if he could light up again
the sentiment which he once saw beaming in her face, he could at least find in it a charming
beguilement of his unrest. She had a passion for flowers: every day he gathered for her some
floral gift; every day she thanked him with a kindness that meant only kindness. She had a
passion for poetry: every day he read to her such as he knew she must admire; every day she
thanked him with a warmth upon which he could build no hopes.

Both the Doctor and Miss Eliza were disturbed by this new zeal of his. At the instance of the
spinster, the Doctor undertook to lay before Reuben the information conveyed in the letter
of Maverick, and that gentleman's disapproval of any association between the young people looking
to marriage. It was not an easy or an agreeable task for the Doctor; and he went about it in
a very halting manner.

"Your Aunt Eliza has observed, Reuben, that you have lately become more pointed in your attentions
to Adaly."

"I dare say, father; worries her, doesn't it?"

"We do not know how far these attentions may be serious, Reuben."

"Nor I, father."

The Doctor was shocked at this new evidence of his son's indifference to any fixed rule of conduct.

"How long is it, father," continued Reuben, "since Aunt Eliza has commenced her plottings against
Adèle?"

"Not plottings against her, I trust, Reuben."

"Yes, she has, father. She's badgering her in her quiet way incessantly,--as far back as when
she caught sight of her in that dance at the Elderkins'. For my part, I think it was a charming
thing to see."

"We have graver reasons for our anxiety in regard to your relations with her, my son; and not
the least of them is Mr. Maverick's entire disapproval of any such attachment."

And thereupon the Doctor had proceeded to lay before Reuben (who now showed a most lively interest)
a full revelation of the facts announced in Maverick's letter.

The son had a strong smack of the father's family pride, and the strange news was bewildering
to him; but in his present stage of distrust, he felt a strong disposition to protest against
all the respectable conventionalities that hedged him in. A generous instinct in him, too,
as he thought of the poor girl under the ban of the townsfolk, craved some chivalric expression;
and whatever sentiment he may really have entertained for her in past days took new force in
view of the sudden barriers that rose between him and the tender, graceful, confiding, charming
Adèle, whose image had so long and (as he now thought) so constantly dwelt in the dreamy mirage
of his future. Under the spur of these feelings, he presently gave over his excited walk up
and down the study, and, coming close to the Doctor, whispered, with a grave earnestness that
made the old gentleman recognize a man in his boy,--

"Father, I have doubted my own feelings about Adèle: now I do not. I love her; I love her madly.
I shall protect her; if she will marry me," (and he touched the Doctor on the shoulder with
a quick, nervous tap of his hand,) "I shall marry her,--God bless her!"

And Reuben, by the very speech, as well as by the thoughts that had gone before, had worked
himself into a passion of devotion.

"Be careful, my son," said the old gentleman; "remember how your enthusiasm has betrayed you
in a still more serious matter."

Reuben smiled bitterly.

"Don't reproach me with that, father. It seems to me that I am acting now more on the side
of the Christian charities than either you or Aunt Eliza."

And with this he strode out, leaving the Doctor in an agony of apprehension.

A moment after, Miss Eliza, who was ever on the alert, and without whose knowledge a swallow
could not dart into the chimneys of the parsonage, came rustling into the study.

"Well, Benjamin, what does Reuben say?"

"Given over to his idols, Eliza,--given over to his idols. We can only pray God to have him
in His holy keeping."

It would be impossible to fathom all the emotions of Reuben during that interview with his
father. It would be wrong to say that the view of future marriage had not often held up its
brilliant illusions before him; it would be wrong to say that they had never been associated
with the charming vivacity of Adèle, as well as, at other times, with the sweet graces of Rose
Elderkin. But these illusions had been of a character so transitory, so fleeting, that he had
come to love their brilliant changes, and to look forward with some dread to the possible permanence
of them, or such fixedness as should take away the charming drift of his vagaries. If, in some
wanton and quite impossible moment, the modest Rose had conquered her delicacy so far as to
put her hand in his, and say, "Will you be my husband?" he would not have been so much outraged
by her boldness as disturbed by the reflection that a pleasant little dream of love was broken
up, and that his thought must come to that practical solution of a yes or no which would make
an end of his delightful doubts and yearnings. The positive and the known are, after all, so
much less, under imaginative measure, than the uncertain and the dreamy!

And if he could have taken the spinster's old tales of Adèle's regard for him and devotion
to him at their highest truth, (which he never did, because of the girl's provoking familiarity
and indifference,) he would have felt a great charm in his life cut off. Yet now he wanders
in search of her with his heart upon his lip and a great fire in his brain. Not a little pride
in affronting opinion may have kindled the glow of his sudden resolve. There was an audacity
in it that tempted and regaled him. Why should he, whose beliefs were so uncertain, who had
grown into doubts of that faith on which all the conventional proprieties about him reposed,--why
should he not discard them, and obey a single, strong, generous instinct? When a man's religious
sensibilities suffer recoil as Reuben's had done, there grows up a new pride in the natural
emotions of generosity; the humane instincts show exceptional force; the skeptics become the
teachers of an exaggerated philanthropy.

Did he love her beyond all others? Yesterday he could not have told; to-day, under the fervor
of his audacity and of his pride, his love blazes in a fiery flame. It seethes around the memory
of her lithe, graceful figure in a whirl of passion. Those ripe red lips shall taste the burning
heat of his love and tenderness. He will guard, cherish, protect, and the iron aunt may protest,
or the world talk as it will. "Adèle!" "Adèle!" His heart is full of the utterance, and his
step wild with tumultuous feeling, as he rushes away to find her,--to win her,--to bind together
their destinies forever!

XLVII.

It was a mellow evening of later October. Mists hung in all the hollows of the hills. Within
the orchard, where Adèle was strolling, a few golden apples still shone among the bronzed leaves.
She saw Reuben coming swiftly through the garden; but his eager step faltered as he came near
her. Even the serene look of girlhood has a power in it to make impassioned confidence waver,
and enthusiasms suffer recoil. He meets her at last with an assumption of his every-day manner,
which she cannot but see presently is underlaid with a tempest of struggling feeling to which
he is a stranger. He has taken her hand and placed it in his arm,--a little coquettish device
to which he was wont; but he keeps the little hand in his with a nervous clasp that is new,
and that makes her tremble all the more when his speech grows impassioned, and the easy compliments
of his past days of frolicsome humor take a depth of tone which make her heart thrill strangely.
Meantime, they had come to the garden-end of the walk.

"It's late, Reuben, and I must go indoors," said she, with a quiet that she did not feel.

"We'll take one more turn, Adèle; you must." And her hand trembled in the eager clasp he fastened
upon it.

Not once did it come into her mind that Reuben was to make a declaration of passion for her.
She had feared only some burst of feeling in the direction of the spinster, or of the Doctor,
which should compromise him even more seriously. When, therefore, he burst forth, as he did
presently, with a passionate avowal of his love, she was overwhelmed with confusion.

"This is so sudden, so strange, Reuben! indeed it is!"

Tenderly as she may have felt toward him in days gone, and gratefully as she always felt, this
sudden attempt to carry by storm the very citadel of her affections was not alone a surprise,
but seemed like sacrilege. The mystery and doubt that overhung the relations between her own
father and mother--and which she felt keenly--had made her regard with awe any possible marriage
of her own, investing the thought of it with a terrible sanctity, and as something to be approached
only with a reverent fear. If in this connection she had ever thought of Reuben, it was in
those days when he seemed so earnest in the faith, and when their feelings were blent by some
superhuman agency. But at his divergence into the paths of skepticism, it seemed to her simple
and intense faith that thenceforth their pilgrimages must be wholly distinct: his--and she
trembled at the thought of it--through some terrible maze of error, where she could not follow:
and hers--by God's grace--straight to the city whose gates are of pearl.

When, therefore, she had replied to the passionate address of Reuben, "You must not talk thus,"
it was with a tear in her eye.

"It grieves you, then, Adèle?"

"Yes, it grieves me, Reuben. Our paths are different now"; and she bethought herself of her
father's injunction, which seemed to make her duty still plainer, and forbade her to encourage
that parley with her heart which--with her hand still fast in Reuben's, and his eyes beaming
with a fierce heat upon her--she was beginning to entertain.

"Adèle, tell me, can I go on?"

"Indeed, indeed, you must not, Reuben!"--and withdrawing her hand suddenly, she passed it over
brow and eyes, as if to rally her thoughts to measure the situation.

"You are weeping, Adèle?" said Reuben.

"No, not weeping," said she, dashing the merest film of mist from her eyes, "but so troubled!--so
troubled!" And she looked yearningly, but vainly, in his face for that illumination which had
belonged to his enthusiasm of the summer.

They walked for a moment in silence,--he, with a scowl upon his face. Seeing this, Adèle said
plaintively,--

"It seems to me, Reuben, as if this might be only a solemn mockery of yours."

"You doubt me, then?" returned he like a flash.

"Do you not doubt yourself, Reuben? Have you never doubted yourself?" This with a glance that
pierced him through.

"Good Heavens! are you turned preacher?" said he, bitterly. "Will you measure a heart by its
dogmatic beliefs?"

"For shame, Reuben!"

And for a time both were silent. At last Adèle spoke again,--

"There is a sense of coming trouble that oppresses me strangely,--that tells me I must not
listen to you, Reuben."

"I know it, Adèle; and it is for this I would cherish you, and protect you against all possible
shame or indignities"----

"Shame! Indignities! What does this mean? What do you know, Reuben?"

Reuben blushed scarlet. His speech had outrun his discretion; but seizing her hand, and pressing
it more tenderly than ever, he said,--

"Only this, Adèle: I see that a coolness has grown up toward you in the parsonage; the old
prejudice against French blood may revive again; besides which, there is, you know, Adèle,
that little family cloud"----

"Is this the old, kind Reuben, my brother, who reminds me of a trouble so shadowy I cannot
fairly measure it?" And Adèle covered her face with her hands.

"Forgive me, Adèle, for God's sake!"

"There is a cloud, Reuben; thank you for the word," said Adèle, recovering herself; "and there
is, I fear, an even darker cloud upon your faith. Until both are passed, I can never listen
to such talk as you would urge upon me,--never! never!"

And there was a spirit in her words now that awed Reuben.

"Would you impute my unbelief to me as a crime, Adèle? Is this your Christian charity? Do you
think that I enjoy this fierce wrestling with doubts? or, having them, would you bid me play
false and conceal them? What if I am a final castaway, as your good books tell us some must
be, would you make me a castaway before my time, and balk all my hopes in life? Is this your
charity?"

"I would not,--you know I would not, Reuben."

"Listen to me, Adèle. If there be any hope of making my way out of this weary wrangle, it seems
to me that it would be in the constant presence of your simple, exultant faith. Will you be
my teacher, Adèle?"

"Teacher,--yes, with all my heart, Reuben."

"Then be mine," said he, seizing her hand again, "from this very hour!"

An instant she seemed to waver; then came over her the memory of her father's injunction,--the
mystery, too, that overshadowed her own life.

"I cannot,--I cannot, Reuben!"

"Is this final?" said he, calmly.

"Final."

She sighed it rather than spoke aloud; the next instant she had slipped away through the shrubbery,
with a swift, cruel rustle of her silken dress, toward the parsonage.

Reuben lingered in the orchard until he saw the light flashing through the muslin hangings
of her window. She had gone early to her chamber. She had kissed the crucifix that was her
mother's with a fervor that sprang as much from devotion as from sentiment. She had sobbed
out her prayer, and with sobs had buried her sweet face in the pillow.

Could Reuben have seen or conceived all this, he might have acted differently.

As it was, he entered the Doctor's study an hour later, with the utmost apparent coolness.

"Well, father," said he, "I have offered marriage to your motherless and pious French protégée,
and she declines."

"My poor son!" said the Doctor.

But his sympathy was not so much with any possible feeling of disappointment as with the chilling
heartlessness and unbelief that seemed to boast themselves in his speech.

"It will be rather dull in Ashfield now, I fancy," continued Reuben, "and I shall slip off
to New York to-morrow and take a new taste of the world."

And the Doctor (as if to himself) said despairingly, "'Whom He will He hardeneth.'"

"But father," said Reuben, (without notice of the old gentleman's ejaculation,) "don't let
Aunt Eliza know of this,--not a word, or she will be fearfully cruel to the poor child."

There was a grave household in the parsonage next morning. Reuben rebelled in heart, in face,
and in action against the tediously long prayer of the parson, though the old gentleman's spirit
was writhing painfully in his pleadings. The aunt was more pious and austere than ever. Adèle,
timid and shrinking, yet with a beautiful and a trustful illumination in her eye, that for
days, and weeks, and months, lingered in the memory of the parson's son.

Later in the day Reuben went to make his adieus to the Elderkins. The old Squire was seated
in his door busied with the "Weekly Courant," which had just come in.

"Aha, Master Reuben," (this was his old-fashioned way,) "you're looking for that lazy fellow,
Phil, I suppose. You'll find him up-stairs with his cigar and his Spanish, I'll venture."

Reuben made his way up to Phil's chamber after the unceremonious manner to which he has been
used in that hospitable home, while a snatch of a little songlet from Rose came floating after
him along the stairs. It was very sweet. But what were sweet songlets to him now? It being
a mild autumn day, Phil sat at the open window, from which he had many a time seen the old
Doctor jogging past in his chaise, and sometimes the tall Almira picking her maidenly way along
the walk with her green parasol daintily held aloft with thumb and two fingers, while from
the lesser fingers dangled a little embroidered bag which was the wonder of all the school-girls.
Other times, too, from this eyrie of his, he had seen Adèle tripping past, with Reuben beside
her, and had wondered what their chat might be, while he had feasted his eyes upon her fair figure.

Yet Phil was by no means an idler; he had developed a great business shrewdness, and two or
three times in the week drove over to a neighboring river-town to look after the shipments
to the West Indies in which he was now interested in company with the Squire. But this had
not forbidden a little cursory reading of a sentimental kind. There may have been a stray volume
of Pelham upon his table, and a six-volume set of Byron in green and gold upon his limited
book-shelf, (both of which were strongly disapproved of by Mrs. Elderkin, but tolerated by
the Squire,)--besides which, there were certain Spanish ballads to which he had taken a great
fancy since his late visit to Cuba.

Reuben was always a welcome visitor, and was presently in full flow of talk, and puffing nervously
at one of Phil's choice Havanas (which in that day were true to their titles).

"I'm off, Phil," said Reuben at last, breaking in upon his host's ecstasy over a ballad he
had been reciting, with what he counted the true Castilian magniloquence.

"Off where?" said Phil.

"Off for the city. I'm weary of this do-nothing life,--weary of the town, weary of the good
people."

"There's nothing you care for, then, in Ashfield?" said Phil. And at that moment a little burst
of the singing of Rose came floating up the stair,--so sweet! so sweet!

"Care for? Yes," said Reuben, "but they are all so good! so devilish good!"--and he puffed
at his cigar with a nervous violence. It was not often that such an approach to profanity sullied
the lips of Reuben, and Phil noted it with surprise.

"I thought there would have been at least one magnet that would have kept you here," said Phil.

"What magnet, pray?" says Reuben,--somewhat calm again.

"There she goes," says Phil, looking out of the window. And at the moment Adèle tripped by,
with the old Doctor walking gravely at her side.

"Humph!" said Reuben, with a composure that was feigned, "she's too much of a Puritan for me,
Phil: or rather, I'm too little of a Puritan for her."

Philip looked at his companion keenly. And Reuben, looking back at him as keenly, said, after
a silence of a few moments,--

"I don't think you'll ever marry her either, Phil."

"Marry!" said Phil, with a deep, honest blush,--"who talks of that?"

"You, in your heart, Phil. Do you think I am blind? Do you think I have not seen that you have
loved her, Phil, ever since you knew what it was to love a woman? Do you think, that, as a
boy, you ever imposed upon me with your talk about that handsome Suke Boody, the tavern-keeper's
daughter? Good Heavens! Phil, I think there were never two men in the world who talked their
thoughts plainly to each other! Do you think I do not know that you have played the shy lover,
because with your big heart you have yielded to what you counted a prior claim of mine,--because
Adèle was one of us at the parsonage?"

"In such affairs," said Phil, with some constraint and not a little wounded pride, "I don't
think men are apt to recognize prior claims."

Reuben replied only by a faint sardonic smile.

"You're a good fellow, Phil, but you won't marry her."

"Of course, then, you know why," said Phil, with something very like a sneer.

"Certainly," said Reuben. "Because you can't affront the world, because you are bound by its
conventionalities and respectabilities, as I am not. I spurn them."

"Respectabilities!" said Phil, in amazement. "What does this mean? Just now she was a Puritan."

"It means, Phil," (and here Reuben reflected a moment or two, puffing with savage energy,)
"it means what I can't wholly explain to you. You know her French blood; you know all the prejudices
against the faith in which she was reared; you know she has an instinct and will of her own.
In short, Phil, I don't think you'll ever marry her; but if you can, you may."

"May!" said Phil, whose pride was now touched to the quick. "And what authority have you, pray?"

"The authority of one who has loved her," said Reuben, with a fierce, quick tone, and dashing
his half-burnt cigar from the window; "the authority of one who, if he had chosen to perjure
himself and profess a faith which he could not entertain, and wear sanctimonious airs, might
have won her heart."

"I don't believe it!" said Phil, with a great burst of voice. "There's no hypocrisy could win
Adèle."

Reuben paced up and down the chamber, then came and took the hand of his old friend:--

"Phil, you're a noble-hearted fellow. I never thought any one could convict me of injustice
to Adèle. You have done it. I hope you'll always defend her; and whatever may betide, I hope
your mother and Rose will always befriend her. She may need it."

Again there was a little burst of song from below, and it lingered upon the ear of Reuben long
after he had left the Elderkin homestead.

The next day he was gone,--to try his new taste of the world.

XLVIII.

It was in no way possible for the simple-hearted Doctor to conceal from the astute spinster
the particular circumstances which had hurried Reuben's departure, and the knowledge of them
made her humiliation complete. During all the latter months of Reuben's stay she had not scrupled
to drop occasional praises of him into the ear of Adèle, as in the old times. It was in agreement
with her rigid notions of retribution, that this poor social outlaw should love vainly; and
a baffling disappointment would have seemed to the spinster's narrow mind a highly proper and
most logical result of the terrible ignominy which overhung the unconscious victim. Indeed,
the innocent unconsciousness of anything derogatory to her name or character which belonged
to Adèle, and her consequent cheery mirthfulness, were sources of infinite annoyance to Miss
Eliza. She would have liked to see her in sackcloth for a while, and to enjoy her own moral
elevation by such a contrast. Nor was this from sheer malice; in that sense she was not malicious;
but she deluded herself with the idea that this was a high religious view of sin and its consequences,--a
proper mortification to befall one on whom Heaven's punishment (of the fathers through the
children) must needs descend. And like many another of her iron purpose, she would not have
shrunk from being herself the instrument of such punishment, and would have gloated over its
accomplishment,--as if by it the Devil's devices had received rebuke, and the elect found cause
for comfort. Many good people--as the world goes--have this vulture appetite for preying upon
the very bowels of sinners; and there is no judge so implacable as one who inflames his judicial
zeal with the fiery heats of an exaggerated religious pretension.

Think, then, of the situation of poor Adèle under the attentions of such a woman, after she
has ferreted out from the Doctor the truth with respect to Reuben! It makes us tremble while
we write of it. There is often a kind of moral tyranny in households, which, without ever a
loud word, much less a blow, can pierce a sensitive mind as with fiery needles. Of such a silent,
fearful tyranny Adèle now felt the innumerable stings, and under it her natural exuberance
of spirits gave way, her faith almost waned; it seemed to her that a kiss upon her silent crucifix
were better than a prayer shared with her tormentor.

The Doctor showed all his old, grave kindness; but he was sadly broken by his anxieties with
respect to his son; nor was he ever demonstrative enough to supply the craving of Adèle's heart,
under her present greed for sympathy. Even the villagers looked upon her more coldly since
the sharpened speech of the spinster had dropped widely, but very quietly, its damaging innuendoes,
and since her well-calculated surmises, that French blood was, after all, not to be wholly
trusted. It was clear to the townspeople that all was at an end between Adèle and Reuben,--clear
that she had fallen away from the old favor in which she once stood at the parsonage; and Miss
Eliza, by her adroit hints, and without any palpable violation of truth, found means of associating
these results with certain suspicious circumstances which had come to light respecting the
poor girl's character,--circumstances for which she herself (Miss Eliza was kind enough to
say) was not altogether accountable, perhaps, but yet sufficient to warrant a little reserve
of confidence, and of course putting an end to any thought of intimate alliance with "the Johns
family." She even whispered in her most insidious manner into the ear of old Mistress Tew,--who,
being somewhat deaf, is the most inveterate village gossip,--that "it was hard for the poor
thing, when Reuben left so suddenly."

Adèle writes in these times to her father, that he need put himself in no fear in regard to
marriage. "I have had an éclaircissement" (she says) "with friend Reuben. His declaration of
attachment (I think I may tell you this, dear papa) was so wholly unexpected that I could not
count it real. He seemed actuated by some sudden controlling sympathy (as he often is) that
I could not explain; and had it been otherwise, your injunction, dear papa, and the fact that
he has become a bitter skeptic in regard to our most holy religion, would have made me pause.
He dropped a hint, too, of the mystery attaching to my family, (not unkindly, for he is, after
all, a dear, good-hearted fellow,) which kindled not a little indignation in me; and I told
him--with some of the pride, I think, I must have inherited from you, papa--that, until that
mystery was cleared, I would marry neither him nor another. Was I not right?

"I want so much to be with you again, dear papa,--to tell you all I hope and fear,--to feel
your kiss again! Miss Johns, whom I have tried hard to love, but cannot, is changed wofully
in her manner toward me. I feel it is only my home now by sufferance,--not such a home as you
would choose for me, I am sure. The Doctor--good soul--is as kind as he knows how to be, but
I want--oh, how I want!--to leap into your arms, dear papa, and find home there. Why can I
not? I am sure--over and over sure--that I could bring some sunlight into a home of yours,
if you would but let me. And when you come, as you say you mean to do soon, do not put me off
with such stories as you once told me, of 'a lean Savoyard in red wig and spectacles, and of
a fat Frenchman with bristly moustache' (you see I remember all); tell me I may come to be
the mistress of your parlor and your salon, and I will keep all in such order, that, I am sure,
you will not want me to leave you again; and you will love me so much that I shall never want
to leave you.

"Indeed, indeed, it is very wearisome to me here. The village people seem all of them to have
caught the coolness of Miss Johns, and look askance at me. Only the Elderkins show their old
kindness, and it is unfailing. Do not, I pray, disturb yourself about any 'lost fortune' of
which you wrote to the Doctor, but never--cruel papa!--a word to me. I am rich: I can't tell
you how many dollars are in the Savings Bank for me,--and for you, if you wish them, I have
so little occasion to spend anything. But I have committed the extravagance of placing a beautiful
tablet over the grave of poor Madame Arles, and, much to the horror of the good Doctor, insisted
upon having a little cross inscribed upon its front. You have never told me, dear papa, if
you received the long account I gave you of her sudden death, and how she died without ever
telling me anything of herself,--though I believe it was in her mind to do so, at the last."

No, of a truth, such a letter had never been received by Maverick, and he cursed the mails
royally for it, since it might have prevented the need of any such disclosure as he had made
to his friend Johns. When the present missive of Adèle came to him, he was entering the brilliant
Café de L'Orient at Marseilles, in company with his friend Papiol. The news staggered him for
a moment.

"Papiol!" said he, "mon ami, Julie is dead!"

"Parbleu! And among your Puritans, yonder? She must have made a piquant story of it all!"

"Not a word, Papiol! She has kept by her promise bravely."

"Tant mieux: it will give you good appetite, mon ami."

For a moment the better nature of Maverick had been roused, and he turned a look of loathing
upon the complacent Frenchman seated by him (which fortunately the stolid Papiol did not comprehend).
For a moment, his thought ran back to a sunny hillside near to the old town of Arles, where
lines of stunted, tawny olives crept down the fields,--where fig-trees showed their purple
nodules of fruit,--where a bright-faced young peasant-girl, with a gay kerchief turbaned about
her head with a coquettish tie, lay basking in the sunshine. He heard once more the trip of
her voice warbling a Provençal song, while the great ruin of the Roman arène came once more
to his vision, with its tufting shrubs and battered arches rising grim and gaunt into the soft
Southern sky; the church-bells of the town poured their sweet jangle on his ear again, the
murmur of distant voices came floating down the wind, and again the pretty Provençal song fluttered
on the balmy air; the coquettish turban was in his eye, the plump, soft hand of the pretty
Provençal girl in his grasp, and her glossy locks touched his burning cheek. So much, at least,
that was Arcadian; and then (in his glowing memory still) the loves, the jealousies, the delusions,
the concealments, the faithlessness, the desertion, the parting! And now,--now the chief actress
in this drama that had touched him so nearly lay buried in a New England grave, with his own
Adèle her solitary mourner!

"It was your friend the Doctor who gave the good woman absolution, I suppose," said Papiol,
tapping his snuff-box, and gathering a huge pinch between thumb and finger.

"Not even that comfort, I suspect," said Maverick.

"Bah! pauvre femme!"

And the philosopher titillated his nostril until he sneezed again and again.

"And the Doctor," continued Papiol,--"does he suspect nothing?"

"Nothing. He has counselled me to make what amends I may by marrying--you know whom."

"Pardieu! he is a good innocent, that old friend of yours!"

"Better than you or I, Papiol."

"Cela va sans dire, mon ami. And la petite,--the little bright-eyes,--what of her?"

"She is unsuspicious, but hints at a little cloud that overshadows her domestic history, and
tells her lover that it shall be cleared up before she will marry him, or any other."

"Ta, ta! It's an inquisitive sex, Maverick! I could never quite understand how Julie should
have learned that her little one was still alive, and been able to trace her as she did. I
think the death was set forth in the Gazette,--eh, Maverick?"

"It certainly was," said Maverick,--"honestly, for the child's good."

"Ha!--honestly,--bon! I beg pardon, mom ami."

And Papiol took snuff again.

"Set forth in the Gazette, en règle, and came to Julie's knowledge, as I am sure; and she sailed
for the East with her brother, who was a small trader in Smyrna, I believe,--poor woman! To
tell truth, Papiol, had she been alive, loving Adèle as I do, I believe I should have been
tempted to follow the parson's admonition, cost what it might."

"And then?"

"And then I should give petite an honest name to bear,--honest as I could, at least; and would
have lavished wealth upon her, as I mean to do; and made the last half of my life better than
the first."

"Excellent! most excellent! considering that the lady is dead, pauvre femme! And now, my dear
fellow, you might go over to your country and play the good Puritan by marrying Mees Eliza,--hein?"

And he called out obstreperously,--

"Garçon!"

"Voici, Messieurs!"

"Absinthe,--deux verres."

And he drummed with his fat fingers upon the edge of the marble slab.

"Mon Dieu!" said Maverick, with a sudden pallor on his face, "who is she?"

The eyes of Papiol fastened upon the figure which had arrested the attention of Maverick,--a
lady of, may-be, forty years, fashionably, but gracefully attired, with olive-brown complexion,
hair still glossy black, and attended by a strange gentleman with a brusque and foreign air.

"Who is she?" says Maverick, in a great tremor. "Do the dead come to haunt us?"

"You are facetious, my friend," said Papiol.

But in the next moment the lady opposite had raised her eyes, showing that strange double look
which had been so characteristic of Madame Arles, and poor Papiol was himself fearfully distraught.

"It's true! It's true, mon ami!" he whispered his friend. "It's Julie!--elle même,--Julie!"

Maverick, too, had met that glance, and he trembled like a leaf. He gazed upon the stranger
like one who sees a spectre. And she met his glance, boldly at the first; then the light faded
from her eyes, her head drooped, and she fell in a swoon upon the shoulder of her companion.

THE CHIMNEY-CORNER FOR 1866.

II.

GRIFFITH GAUNT; OR, JEALOUSY.

CHAPTER VI.

The two combatants came to the field in a very different spirit. Neville had already fought
two duels, and been successful in both. He had confidence in his skill and in his luck. His
conscience, too, was tolerably clear; for he was the insulted person; and if a bullet should
remove this dangerous rival from his path, why, all the better for him, and all the worse for
the fool who had brought the matter to a bloody issue, though the balance of the lady's heart
inclined his way.

He came in high spirits, and rode upon Kate Peyton's gray, to sting his adversary, and show
his contempt of him.

Not so Griffith Gaunt. His heart was heavy, and foreboded ill. It was his first duel, and he
expected to be killed. He had played a fool's game, and he saw it.

The night before the duel he tried hard to sleep; he knew it was not giving his nerves fair
play to lie thinking all night. But coy sleep, as usual when most wanted, refused to come.
At daybreak the restless man gave it up in despair, and rose and dressed himself. He wrote
that letter to Catharine, little thinking it would fall into her hands while he lived. He ate
a little toast, and drank a pint of Burgundy, and then wandered listlessly about till Major
Rickards, his second, arrived.

That experienced gentleman brought a surgeon with him,--Mr. Islip.

Major Rickards deposited a shallow wooden box in the hall; and the two gentlemen sat down to
a hearty breakfast.

Griffith took care of his guests, but beyond that spoke scarcely a word; and the surgeon, after
a ghastly attempt at commonplaces, was silent too. Major Rickards satisfied his appetite first,
and then, finding his companions dumb, set to work to keep up their spirits. He entertained
them with a narrative of the personal encounters he had witnessed, and especially of one in
which his principal had fallen on his face at the first fire, and the antagonist had sprung
into the air, and both had lain dead as door-nails, and never moved, nor even winked, after
that single discharge.

Griffith sat under this chilling talk for more than an hour.

At last he rose gloomily, and said it was time to go.

"Got your tools, Doctor?" inquired the Major.

The surgeon nodded slightly. He was more discreet than his friend.

When they had walked nearly a mile in the snow, the Major began to complain.

"The Devil!" said he; "this is queer walking. My boots are full of water. I shall catch my death."

The surgeon smiled satirically, comparing silent Griffith's peril with his second's.

Griffith took no notice. He went like Fortitude plodding to Execution.

Major Rickards fell behind, and whispered Mr. Islip,--

"Don't like his looks; doesn't march like a winner. A job for you or the sexton, you mark my
words."

       *       *       *       *       *

They toiled up Scutchemsee Nob, and when they reached the top, they saw Neville and his second,
Mr. Hammersley, riding towards them. The pair had halters as well as bridles, and, dismounting,
made their nags fast to a large blackthorn that grew there. The seconds then stepped forward,
and saluted each other with formal civility.

Griffith looked at the gray horse, and ground his teeth. The sight of the animal in Neville's
possession stirred up his hate, and helped to steel his heart. He stood apart, still, pale,
and gloomy.

The seconds stepped out fifteen paces, and placed the men. Then they loaded two pair of pistols,
and put a pistol in each man's hand.

Major Rickards took that opportunity to advise his principal.

"Stand sharp. Keep your arm close to your side. Don't fire too high. How do you feel?"

"Like a man who must die, but will try to die in company."

The seconds now withdrew to their places; and the rivals held their pistols lowered, but fixed
their deadly eyes on each other.

The eye, in such a circumstance, is a terrible thing: it is literally a weapon of destruction;
for it directs the deadly hand that guides the deadly bullet. Moreover, the longer and the
more steadily the duellist fixes his eye on his adversary, the less likely he is to miss.

Griffith was very pale, but dogged. Neville was serious, but firm. Both eyed each other unflinchingly.

"Gentlemen, are you ready?" asked Neville's second.

    {"Yes."
    {
    {"Yes."

"Then," said Major Rickards, "you will fire when I let fall this handkerchief, and not before.
Mark me, Gentlemen: to prevent mistakes, I shall say, 'One,--two,--three!' and then drop the
handkerchief. Now, then, once more, are you quite ready?"

    {"Yes."
    {
    {"Yes."

"One,----two,----three!"

He dropped the handkerchief, and both gentlemen fired simultaneously. Mr. Neville's hat spun
into the air; Griffith stood untouched.

The bullet had passed through Neville's hat, and had actually cut a lane through his magnificent
hair.

The seconds now consulted, and it was intimated to Griffith that a word of apology would be
accepted by his antagonist. Griffith declined to utter a syllable of apology.

Two more pistols were given the men.

"Aim lower," said Rickards.

"I mean to," said Griffith.

The seconds withdrew, and the men eyed each other,--Griffith dogged and pale, as before, Neville
not nearly so self-assured: Griffith's bullet, in grazing him, had produced the effect of a
sharp, cold current of air no wider than a knife. It was like Death's icy fore-finger laid
on his head, to mark him for the next shot,--as men mark a tree, then come again and fell it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"One,----two,----three!"

And Griffith's pistol missed fire; but Neville's went off, and Griffith's arm sank powerless,
and his pistol rolled out of his hand. He felt a sharp twinge, and then something trickle down
his arm.

The surgeon and both seconds ran to him.

"Nay, it is nothing," said he; "I shoot far better with my left hand than my right. Give me
another pistol, and let me have fair play. He has hit me; and now I'll hit him."

Both seconds agreed this was impossible.

"It is the chance of war," said Major Rickards; "you cannot be allowed to take a cool shot
at Mr. Neville. If you fire again, so must he."

"The affair may very well end here," said Mr. Hammersley. "I understand there was some provocation
on our side; and on behalf of the party insulted I am content to let the matter end, Mr. Gaunt
being wounded."

"I demand my second shot to his third," said Griffith, sternly; "he will not decline, unless
he is a poltroon, as well as--what I called him."

The nature of this reply was communicated to Neville, and the seconds, with considerable reluctance,
loaded two more pistols; and during the process Major Rickards glanced at the combatants.

Griffith exasperated by his wound and his jealousy, was wearing out the chivalrous courage
of his adversary; and the Major saw it. His keen eye noticed that Neville was getting restless,
and looking confounded at his despised rival's pertinacity, and that Gaunt was more dogged
and more deadly.

"My man will kill yours this time," said he, quietly, to Neville's second; "I can see if in
his eye. He is hungry: t' other has had his bellyful."

Once more the men were armed, and the seconds withdrew to their places, intimating that this
was the last shot they would allow under any circumstances whatever.

"Are you both ready?"

    {"Yes."
    {
    {"Yes."

A faint wail seemed to echo the response.

All heard it, and in that superstitious age believed it to be some mysterious herald of death.

It suspended even Major Rickards's voice a minute. He recovered himself, however, and once
more his soldier-like tones rang in the keen air:--

"One,----"

There was a great rushing, and a pounding of the hard ground, and a scarlet Amazon galloped
in, and drew up in the middle, right between the levelled pistols.

Every eye had been so bent on the combatants, that Kate Peyton and her horse seemed to have
sprung out of the very earth. And there she sat, pale as ashes, on the steaming piebald, and
glanced from pistol to pistol.

The duellists stared in utter amazement, and instinctively lowered their weapons; for she had
put herself right in their line of fire with a recklessness that contrasted nobly with her
fear for others. In short, this apparition literally petrified them all, seconds as well as
combatants.

And while they stood open-mouthed, yet dumb, in came the Scamp, and, with a brisk assumption
of delegated authority, took Griffith's weapon out of his now unresisting hand, then marched
to Neville. He instantly saluted Catharine, and then handed his pistol to her seeming agent,
with a high-bred and inimitable air of utter nonchalance.

Kate, seeing them, to her surprise, so easily disarmed, raised her hands and her lovely eyes
to heaven, and, in a feeble voice, thanked God and Saint Nescioquis.

But very soon that faint voice quavered away to nothing, and her fair head was seen to droop,
and her eyes to close; then her body sank slowly forward like a broken lily, and in another
moment she lay fainting on the snow beside her steaming horse.

He never moved, he was so dead beat too.

Oh, lame and impotent conclusion of a vigorous exploit! Masculine up to the crowning point,
and then to go and spoil all with "woman's weakness"!

"N. B. This is rote sarcasticul," as Artemus the Delicious says. Woman's weakness! If Solomon
had planned and Samson executed, they could not have served her turn better than this most
seasonable swooning did; for, lo! at her fall, the doughty combatants uttered a yell of dismay,
and there was an indiscriminate rush towards the fair sufferer.

But the surgeon claimed his rights.

"This is my business," said he, authoritatively. "Do not crowd on her, Gentlemen: give her air."

Whereupon the duellists and seconds stood respectfully aloof, in a mixed group, and watched
with eager interest and pity.

The surgeon made a hole in the snow, and laid his fair patient's head low.

"Don't be alarmed," said he; "she has swooned; that is all."

It was all mighty fine to say, "Don't be alarmed." But her face was ashy, and her lips the
color of lead; and she was so like death, they could not help being terribly alarmed; and now,
for the first time, the duellists felt culprits; and as for fighting, every idea of such a
thing went out of their heads. The rivals now were but rival nurses; and never did a lot of
women make more fuss over a child than all these bloodthirsty men did over this Amazon manquée.
They produced their legendary lore. One's grandmother had told him burnt feathers were the
thing; another, from an equally venerable source, had gathered that those pink palms must be
profanely slapped by the horny hand of man,--for at no less a price could resuscitation be
obtained. The surgeon scorning all their legends, Griffith and Neville made hasty rushes with
brandy and usquebaugh; but whether to be taken internally or externally they did not say, nor,
indeed, know, but only thrust their flasks wildly on the doctor; and he declined them loftily.
He melted snow in his hand, and dashed it hard in her face, and put salts close to her pretty
little nostrils. And this he repeated many times without effect.

But at last her lips began to turn from lead color to white, and then from white to pink, and
her heavenly eyes to open again, and her mouth to murmur things pitiably small and not bearing
on the matter in hand.

Her cheek was still colorless, when her consciousness came back, and she found she was lying
on the ground with ever so many gentlemen looking at her.

At that, Modesty alarmed sent the blood at once rushing to her pale cheek.

A lovely lily seemed turning to a lovely rose before their eyes.

The next thing was, she hid that blushing face in her hands, and began to whimper.

The surgeon encouraged her: "Nay, we are all friends," he whispered, paternally.

She half parted her fingers and peered through them at Neville and Gaunt. Then she remembered
all, and began to cry hysterically.

New dismay of the unprofessionals!

"Now, Gentlemen, if you will lend me your flasks," said Mr. Islip, mighty calmly.

Griffith and Neville were instantly at his side, each with a flask.

The surgeon administered snow and brandy. Kate sipped these, and gulped down her sobs, and
at last cried composedly.

But when it came to sipping brandied snow and crying comfortably, Major Rickards's anxiety
gave place to curiosity. Without taking his eye off her, he beckoned Mr. Hammersley apart,
and whispered,--

"Who the Deuse is it?"

"Don't you know?" whispered the other in return. "Why, Mistress Peyton herself."

"What! the girl it is all about? Well, I never heard of such a thing: the causa belli to come
galloping and swooning on the field of battle, and so stop the fighting! What will our ladies
do next? By Heaven! she is worth fighting for, though. Which is the happy man, I wonder? She
doesn't look at either of them."

"Ah!" said the gentleman, "that is more than I know, more than Neville knows, more than anybody
knows."

"Bet you a guinea she knows,--and lets it out before she leaves the field," said Major Rickards.

