THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 14, No. 393.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Glammis Castle

Here is a castellated palace, or princely castle, associated with many great and daring events
in the roll of Scottish history. It stands in the valley of Strathmore, in a park of 160 acres,
a little to the north of Glammis, a village of Angus, N.B. The original foundation is of high
antiquity; for Malcolm II. was assassinated here in the year 1034, and the chamber in which
he expired is still shown. Two obelisks, one near the Manse, and the other in a neighbouring
field, denote the places where he was attacked. In this castle also, according to some historians,
Macbeth murdered Duncan. We notice, however, that Sir Walter Scott, in his recently-published
version of the story of Macbeth, states the murder to have been committed at "a great castle
near Inverness," in which he is corroborated by Bæthius, who says, the castle stood upon an
eminence south-east of Inverness. But Fordun says the murder was perpetrated near Elgin; and
others say at Cawdor Castle.

The Castle originally consisted of two rectangular towers, longer than broad, with walls of
fifteen feet in thickness; they were connected by a square projection, and together formed
a figure somewhat like the letter Z, saving that in the castle all the angles were right ones;
this form gave mutual defence to every part of the building. It contains a spiral staircase
of 143 steps, reaching from the bottom to the top of the building.

Glammis Castle is still the seat of the Strathmore family. It was given by Robert I. of Scotland,
in the year 1376, with his daughter, to John Lyon, Lord Glammis, chancellor of Scotland. Great
alterations and additions were made to the building by Patrick, Earl of Strathmore, his lineal
heir and successor: these improvements, according to the above cited plan, a date carved on
a stone on the outside of the building, and other authorities, were made in the year 1606,
and not in 1686, as is said in an old print engraved about that time, and from which our view
is copied. The architect employed on this occasion, as tradition reports, was Inigo Jones;
indeed, the work seems greatly to resemble Heriot's Hall at Edinburgh, and other buildings
designed by him. The great hall was finished in the year 1621; it is a handsome room with a
carved ceiling, adorned with heads and ornaments in stucco. Among the apartments shown to visitors,
are a wardrobe containing a curious collection of old state dresses; the armoury, in which
are preserved the sword and coat of mail of Macbeth, as well as some articles supposed to have
been carried off by Malcolm's murderers, and found in the Loch of Forfar, during the last century;
and the chapel built about 1500, the furniture of which remains in its original state. Here
also are about one hundred portraits; among which is a large picture, in a carved frame, representing
Earl Patrick and his three sons; in the background is a view of the castle, as it was in the
year 1683. At that time there were three gates leading from the park. Some idea may be formed
of the extent of this establishment from the circumstance of eighty beds being made up within
the house, for the Pretender and his retinue, during their sojourn here, besides those for
the inferior servants, in the offices out of doors. The forfeiture of the estate was prevented
by the earl's brother being killed at the head of his regiment on Shiremore.

In the courtyard is shown a stone, on which is engraved a cross and divers figures, said to
allude to the murder of Malcolm, and the death of the murderers, who attempting to cross the
Lake of Forfar, then slightly frozen over, the ice broke, and they were drowned: this stone
is described and engraved by Mr. Pennant, in his Tour through Scotland.

By way of enlivening these historical data, and as an epigrammatic conclusion to our description,
we subjoin a pleasant little anecdote related by Sir Walter Scott, of a certain old Earl of
Strathmore, who, in superintending some improvements of the castle, displayed an eccentric
love of uniformity.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON LOCALITIES:

LITERARY RECOLLECTIONS OF LONDON.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

No intellectual enjoyment, in my opinion, can surpass the delight we experience when traversing
those spots of the habitable earth where celebrated warriors fought, minstrels sang, philosophers
pondered, or where philanthropists have immortalized their names by deeds of charity. To roam
through the romantic vales of Italy--surrounded at all turns by the sad memorials of its former
magnificence--the mighty ruins of its temples and palaces, and the mutilated remains of its
statues and triumphal columns, conveying to the mind mournful images of the fallen fates of
those who had for ages been its proud possessors; where the Mantuan bard first caught inspiration
from the deathless muse; where Tully charmed the listening throng, whilst defending with mild
persuasion the arts and the sciences he loved, and condemning in terrible denunciations the
mad ambition that threatened the destruction of his country; to wander among its groves, and
say, here Ovid, in lonely exile, soothed his sorrows with the melody of his heaven-inspired
strain; here Petrarch wooed his much-loved Laura in sonnets soft as the affection that gave
them birth; here Tasso made history and Jerusalem immortal by crowning them with the garlands
of his Promethean genius; and here Ariosto, Dante, Metastasio, and a galaxy of poets and philosophers
shed the splendour of their gifted imaginations on the expiring greatness of their country.

Where is the portion of the civilized globe that has not some delightful reminiscence connected
with it? There is not a country in the world, even the most barbarous, where the inhabitants
will not feel pride and pleasure in pointing out to your attention some sacred spot ever dear
to their memories: some battle-field or scene of conquest; some warrior's grave; some monarch's
sepulchre, or some chieftain or legislator's dwelling. And what shall we say of the classic
soil of Greece? where the eye cannot turn, or the foot move to a place which is not eternalized
by its associations: where the waters will not remind you of Castalian founts; the flowers
of Parnassian wreaths; the eminences of the Phocian hills; and where the air of all breathes
inspiration. To a mind prone to contemplation, a walk through Athens must awaken the most exquisite
reveries. Although "fallen from its high estate," there is enough in the tottering ruins which
yet remain to recall the history of its ancient grandeur: the shattered Acropolis and the Pyraeus
tell the tale of other days, in language at once pathetic and intelligible--

  "The time has been when they were young and proud,
  Banners on high and battles pass'd below."

The mind must be distracted with the multiplicity of its recollections; all that is great or
good or glorious in our nature, must be identified with some forcible remembrance; and heroes,
poets, statesmen, patriots, legislators, philosophers, and the historical events connected
with their names, must congregate before us in sublime and touching similitude. "Alas, poor
country!"--On those shores the monuments of science and of art, which drew admirers from the
remotest corners of the earth, are now demolished by the savage and cowardly slaves of a despot,
who is himself a slave; the eloquence which swayed the passions of applauding multitudes is
dumb; the pencil of Appelles that breathed over the canvass, and the chisel of Praxiteles that
gave life and animation to shapeless blocks, are now no more; and the all-powerful lyre, whose
sweeping chords would rouse the soul to rage or melt it into pity, is now, and perhaps FOR
EVER, mute and unstrung!

These observations, which you may think too enthusiastic, were elicited by the perusal of an
article in your No. 388, entitled "A Desultory Chapter on Localities." Your Correspondent states,
that "it is needless to travel to foreign countries in search of localities. In our own metropolis
and its environs a diligent inquirer will find them at every step." The following Collection
will serve to confirm the truth of his statement, and should you deem it worthy "a local habitation"
in your excellent journal, I doubt not it will prove interesting, if not quite new to many
of your readers.[1]

    [1] Is not this very interesting extract by Leigh Hunt?--We have
    not his Indicator at hand for reference.

C.E.

"In St. Giles' Church lie Chapman, the earliest and best translator of Homer; and Andrew Marvell,
the wit and patriot, whose poverty Charles II. could not bribe.--Who would suppose that the
Borough was the most classical ground in the metropolis? And yet it is undoubtedly so. The
Globe Theatre was there, of which Shakspeare himself was a proprietor, and for which he wrote
his plays. Globe-lane, in which it stood, is still extant, we believe, under that name. It
is probable that he lived near it: it is certain that he must have been much there. It is also
certain that on the Borough side of the river, then and still called the Bank-side, in the
same lodging, having the same wardrobe, and some say, with other participations more remarkable,
lived Beaumont and Fletcher. In the Borough, also, at St. Saviour's, lie Fletcher and Massinger
in one grave; in the same church, under a monument and effigy, lies Chaucer's contemporary,
Gower; and from an inn in the Borough, the existence of which is still boasted, and the site
pointed out by a picture and inscription, Chaucer set out his pilgrims and himself on their
famous road to Canterbury.

"To return over the water, who would expect any thing poetical from East Smithfield? Yet there
was born the most poetical even of poets, Spenser. Pope was born within the sound of Bowbell,
in a street no less anti-poetical than Lombard-street. So was Gray, in Cornhill. So was Milton,
in Bread-street, Cheapside. The presence of the same great poet and patriot has given happy
memories to many parts of the metropolis. He lived in St. Bride's Churchyard, Fleet-street;
in Alders-gate-street, in Jewin-street, in Barbican, in Bartholomew-close; in Holborn, looking
back to Lincoln's Inn Fields; in Holborn, near Red-lion-square; in Scotland-yard; in a house
looking to St. James' Park, now belonging to an eminent writer on legislation, and lately occupied
by a celebrated critic and metaphysician; and he died in Artillery-walk, Bunhill-fields; and
was buried in St. Giles', Cripplegate.

"Ben Jonson, who was born 'in Hartshorne-lane, near Charing-cross,' was at one time 'master'
of a theatre in Barbican. He appears also to have visited a tavern called the Sun and Moon,
in Aldersgate-street; and is known to have frequented with Beaumont and others, the famous
one called the Mermaid, which was in Cornhill.

"The other celebrated resort of the great wits of that time was the Devil Tavern, in Fleet-street,
close to Temple-bar. Ben Jonson lived also in Bartholomew-close, where Milton afterwards lived.
It was in the passage from the cloisters of Christ's Hospital into St. Bartholomew's. Aubrey
gives it as a common opinion, that at the time when Jonson's father-in-law made him help him
in his business of bricklayer, he worked with his own hands upon the Lincoln's Inn garden wall,
which looks upon Chancery-lane, and which seems old enough to have some of his illustrious
brick and mortar still remaining.

"Under the cloisters in Christ's Hospital (which stand in the heart of the city unknown to
most persons, like a house kept invisible for young and learned eyes) lie buried a multitude
of persons of all ranks; for it was once a monastery of Gray Friars. Among them is John of
Bourbon, one of the prisoners taken at the battle of Agincourt. Here also lies Thomas Burdet,
ancestor of the present Sir Francis, who was put to death in the reign of Edward IV., for wishing
the horns of a favourite white stag, which the King had killed, in the body of the person who
advised him to do it. And here too (a sufficing contrast) lies Isabella, wife of Edward II.

  'She, wolf of France, with unrelenting fangs,
  Who tore the bowels of her mangled mate'
                                          GRAY.

"Her 'mate's' heart was buried with her, and placed upon her bosom! a thing that looks like
the fantastic incoherence of a dream. It is well we did not know of her presence when at school;
or after reading one of Shakspeare's tragedies, we should have run twice as fast round the
cloisters at night time, as we used. Camden, 'the nourrice of antiquitie,' received part of
his education in this school; and here also, not to mention a variety of others known in the
literary world, were bred two of the most powerful and deep-spirited writers of the present
day; whose visits to the cloisters we well remember.

"In a palace on the site of Hatton-garden, died John of Gaunt. Brook House, at the corner of
the street of that name in Holborn, was the residence of the celebrated Sir Fulke Greville,
Lord Brook, the 'friend of Sir Philip Sydney.' In the same street, died, by a voluntary death,
of poison, that extraordinary person, Thomas Chatterton---

  'The sleepless boy, who perished in his pride.'
                                      WORDSWORTH.

He was buried in the workhouse in Shoe-lane; a circumstance, at which one can hardly help feeling
a movement of indignation. Yet what could beadles and parish officers know about such a being?
No more than Horace Walpole. In Gray's Inn, lived, and in Gray's Inn Garden meditated, Lord
Bacon. In Southampton-row, Holborn, Cowper was a fellow-clerk to an attorney with the future
Lord Chancellor Thurlow. At the Fleet-street corner of Chancery-lane, Cowley, we believe, was
born. In Salisbury-court, Fleet-street, was the house of Thomas Sackville, first Earl of Dorset,
the precursor of Spenser, and one of the authors of the first regular English tragedy. On the
demolition of this house, part of the ground was occupied by the celebrated theatre built after
the Restoration, at which Betterton performed, and of which Sir William Davenant was manager.
Lastly, here was the house and printing-office of Richardson. In Bolt-court, not far distant,
lived Dr. Johnson, who resided also for some time in the Temple. A list of his numerous other
residences is to be found in Boswell[2]. Congreve died in Surrey-street, in the Strand, at
his own house. At the corner of Beaufort-buildings, was Lilly's, the perfumer, at whose house
the Tatler was published. In Maiden-lane, Covent-garden, Voltaire lodged while in London, at
the sign of the White Peruke. Tavistock-street was then, we believe, the Bond-street of the
fashionable world; as Bow-street was before. The change of Bow-street from fashion to the police,
with the theatre still in attendance, reminds one of the spirit of the Beggar's Opera. Button's
Coffee-house, the resort of the wits of Queen's Anne's time, was in Russell-street--we believe,
near where the Hummums now stand. We think we recollect reading also, that in the same street,
at one of the corners of Bow-street, was the tavern where Dryden held regal possession of the
arm chair. The whole of Covent-garden is classic ground, from its association with the dramatic
and other wits of the times of Dryden and Pope. Butler lived, perhaps died, in Rose-street,
and was buried in Covent-garden Churchyard; where Peter Pindar the other day followed him.
In Leicester-square, on the site of Miss Linwood's exhibition and other houses, was the town
mansion of the Sydneys, Earls of Leicester, and the family of Sir Philip and Algernon Sydney.
In the same square lived Sir Joshua Reynolds. Dryden lived and died in Gerrard-street, in a
house which looked backwards into the garden of Leicester House. Newton lived in St. Martin's-street,
on the south side of the square. Steele lived in Bury-street, St. James'; he furnishes an illustrious
precedent for the loungers in St. James'-street, where scandal-mongers of those times delighted
to detect Isaac Bickerstaff in the person of captain Steele, idling before the Coffee-house,
and jerking his leg and stick alternately against the pavement. We have mentioned the birth
of Ben Jonson, near Charing-cross. Spenser died at an inn, where he put up on his arrival from
Ireland, in King-street, Westminster--the same which runs at the back of Parliament-street
to the Abbey. Sir Thomas More lived at Chelsea. Addison lived and died in Holland House, Kensington,
now the residence of the accomplished nobleman who takes his title from it. In Brook-street,
Grosvenor-square, lived Handel; and in Bentinck-street, Manchester-square, Gibbon. We have
omitted to mention that De Foe kept a hosier's shop in Cornhill; and that, on the site of the
present Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, stood the mansion of the Wriothesleys, Earls
of Southampton, one of whom was the celebrated friend of Shakspeare. But what have we not omitted
also? No less an illustrious head than the Boar's, in Eastcheap--the Boar's Head Tavern, the
scene of Falstaff's revels. We believe the place is still marked out by a similar sign. But
who knows not Eastcheap and the Boar's Head? Have we not all been there time out of mind? And
is it not a more real, as well as notorious thing to us, than the London Tavern, or the Crown
and Anchor, or the Hummums, or White's, or What's-his-name's, or any other of your contemporary
and fleeting taps?

    [2] The Temple must have had many eminent inmates. Among them,
    it is believed, was Chaucer, who is also said, upon the strength
    of an old record, to have been fined two shillings for beating a
    Franciscan Friar in Fleet-street.

"Before we rest our wings, however, we must take another dart over the city, as far as Stratford
at Bow, where, with all due tenderness for boarding-school French, a joke of Chaucer has existed
as a piece of local humour for nearly four hundred and fifty years. Speaking of the Prioress,
who makes such a delicate figure among his Canterbury Pilgrims, he tells us, among her other
accomplishments, that--

  'French she spake full faire and featously;'

adding with great gravity,

  'After the school of Stratford atte Bowe;
  For French of Paris was to her unknowe.'

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS FACTS RELATING TO SLEEP.

(For the Mirror.)

"Next to those nourishments that sustain the body (says Dr. Venner) moderate and seasonable
sleep is most profitable and necessary. It helps digestion, recreates the mind, repairs the
spirits, and comforts and refreshes the whole body." It is also observed by Dr. Hufeland, that
"sleep is one of the wisest regulations of nature, to check and moderate at fixed periods,
the incessant and impetuous stream of vital consumption. It forms as it were, stations for
our physical and moral existence, and we thereby obtain the happiness of being daily reborn,
and of passing every morning through a state of annihilation, into a new and refreshed life."

The writer of the article "Sleep." in Rees's Cyclopædia, says, "the proportion of time passed
in sleep differs in different persons, and at different ages. From six to nine hours may be
reckoned about the average proportion. Men of active minds whose attention is engaged in a
series of interesting enjoyments, sleep much less than the listless and indolent, and the same
individual will spend fewer hours in this way, when strongly interested in any pursuits, than
when the stream of life is gentle and undisturbed. The Great Frederic of Prussia, and John
Hunter, who devoted every moment of their time to the most active employments of body and mind,
generally took only four or five hours' sleep. A rich and lazy citizen, whose life is merely
a chronicle of breakfast, dinners, suppers, and sleep, will slumber away ten or twelve hours
daily. When any subject strongly occupies us, it keeps us awake in spite of ourselves. The
newly born child sleeps most of its time, and seems to wake merely for the purpose of feeding.
Very old persons sleep much of their time; in the natural progress towards death, the animal
faculties are first extinguished; accordingly, when they begin to decline in decrepit old age,
the periods of their intermissions are longer. The celebrated De Moivre, when eighty-three
years of age, was awake only four hours out of the twenty-four; and Thomas Parr at last slept
the greatest part of his time. An eye-witness relates that some boys, completely exhausted
by exertion, fell asleep amid all the tumult of the battle of the Nile; and other instances
are known of soldiers sleeping amid discharges of artillery, and all the tumult of war. Couriers
are known to sleep on horseback, and coachmen on their coaches. A gentleman who saw the fact,
reported, to the writer of this article, that many soldiers in the retreat of Sir John Moore,
fell asleep on the march, and continued walking on. Even stripes and tortures cannot keep off
sleep beyond a certain time. Noises at first prevent us from sleeping, but their influence
soon ceases, and persons rest soundly in the most noisy situations. The proprietors of some
vast iron-works, who slept close to them, through the incessant din of hammers, forges, and
blast furnaces, would awake if there were any interruption during the night. And a miller,
being very ill and unable to sleep, when his mill was stopped, on his account, rested well
and recovered quickly when the mill was set going again. Great hunger prevents sleep, and cold
affecting a part of the body has the same effect. These causes operated on the unfortunate
women who lived thirty-four days in a small room overwhelmed by snow, and with the slightest
sustenance, they hardly slept the whole time."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERU: SIMPLICITY OF PASTORAL LIFE.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

After all that has been written and said on South America, by many recent travellers, it may
probably be thought that the following remarks are rather out of time; but as a single fact
may sometimes serve to show the state of a country more forcibly than volumes, I am induced
to relate an anecdote which will throw a little light on the present situation of one portion
of the natives of Peru.

The Andes take their rise literally at the "end of the World;" for Cape Horn certainly deserves
that epithet, and the Straights of Magellan, which divide Terra del Fuego from the continent
are comparatively no more than a mountain stream in a hilly country, so that that island may
without any impropriety be deemed a part of it. The Andes are not one continuous chain of mountains;
but an immensity of piles raised one on another, at different elevations of which are extensive
plains, termed "Pampas," some of which appear as boundless as the horizon, and totally divested
of herbage. On one of these plains, called the Pampa of Diesmo, in the province of Junin, I
was detained some days at the only hut to be seen for leagues. One of the arreóros, or muleteers,
with me, a native of Madrid, remarked on the solitude of the spot, adding, with a sigh, "This
was a different place when first I visited it." Within about half a mile from where we were
then conversing was an astonishing freak of Nature. In the midst of the plain were about one
hundred naked rocks rising abruptly from the surface, in detached groups, some of which were
as high as St. Paul's, and many appeared like the spires of a cathedral. Pointing to these
eminences, the muleteer went on to say, "for five months these rocks were my refuge from white
men, and from them have I seen an army of twenty-five thousand men traverse this plain again
and again; their only support for nearly fourteen months being drawn from the spot." On asking
an explanation, he bid me look round and say if I thought I could count the number of sheep
on the Pampa. I readily answered I did not think there were fifty. "What will you say, sir,"
said he, "when I tell you that sixteen years since, there were, on this plain alone, eight
hundred thousand sheep! besides oxen; at that time there was scarcely an Indian that did not
possess at least two thousand, and this was only a part of the wealth of Peru. The desolation
that now exists may justly be laid to the account of a revolution, which has only been the
means of creating a spirit of animosity amongst those who before were cordially united; you
yourself must be aware that if it were known I was a Godo, (Old Spaniard), my life would not
be worth an hour's purchase; another thing you have yourself experienced, is the total absence
of hospitality in Peru. This is also an effect of the revolution; for at the time I alluded
to, a stranger in this country need not expend a maravedi in travelling; but those days, I
fear, will never return."

This conversation occurred in the summer of 1827, and there are a few readers of the MIRROR
who were then in Peru, who will readily recognise the writer.

VIATOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON FEAR.

By Sir Thomas More.

  If evils come not, then our fears are vain,
  And if they do, fear but augments the pain.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

SKIMINGTON RIDING.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

