A Transcriber's Note is at the end of the book.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LETTERS OF QUEEN VICTORIA

A SELECTION FROM HER MAJESTY'S CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE YEARS 1837 AND 1861

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF HIS MAJESTY THE KING

EDITED BY ARTHUR CHRISTOPHER BENSON, M.A. AND VISCOUNT ESHER, G.C.V.O., K.C.B.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.--1837-1843

LONDON JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W. 1908

Copyright in Great Britain and Dependencies, 1907, by H.M. THE KING.

In the United States by Messrs LONGMANS, GREEN & CO.

All rights reserved.

PREFACE

Entrusted by His Majesty the King with the duty of making a selection from Queen Victoria's
correspondence, we think it well to describe briefly the nature of the documents which we have
been privileged to examine, as well as to indicate the principles which have guided us throughout.
It has been a task of no ordinary difficulty. Her Majesty Queen Victoria dealt with her papers,
from the first, in a most methodical manner; she formed the habit in early days of preserving
her private letters, and after her accession to the Throne all her official papers were similarly
treated, and bound in volumes. The Prince Consort instituted an elaborate system of classification,
annotating and even indexing many of the documents with his own hand. The result is that the
collected papers form what is probably the most extraordinary series of State documents in
the world. The papers which deal with the Queen's life up to the year 1861 have been bound
in chronological order, and comprise between five and six hundred volumes. They consist, in
great part, of letters from Ministers detailing the proceedings of Parliament, and of various
political memoranda dealing with home, foreign, and colonial policy; among these are a few
drafts of Her Majesty's replies. There are volumes concerned with the affairs of almost every
European country; with the history of India, the British Army, the Civil List, the Royal Estates,
and all the complicated machinery of the Monarchy and the Constitution. There are letters from
monarchs and royal personages, and there is further a whole series of volumes dealing with
matters in which the Prince Consort took a special interest. Some of them are arranged chronologically,
some by subjects. Among the most interesting volumes are those containing the letters written
by Her Majesty to her uncle Leopold, King of the Belgians, and his replies.[1] The collection
of letters from and to Lord Melbourne forms another hardly less interesting series. In many
places Queen Victoria caused extracts, copied from her own private Diaries, dealing with important
political events or describing momentous interviews, to be inserted in the volumes, with the
evident intention of illustrating and completing the record.

    [Footnote 1: A set of volumes containing the Queen's letters
    to Lord John Russell came into our hands too late to be made
    use of for the present publication.]

It became obvious at once that it was impossible to deal with these papers exhaustively. They
would provide material for a historical series extending to several hundred volumes. Moreover,
on the other hand, there are many gaps, as a great deal of the business of State was transacted
by interviews of which no official record is preserved.

His Majesty the King having decided that no attempt should be made to publish these papers
in extenso, it was necessary to determine upon some definite principle of selection. It became
clear that the only satisfactory plan was to publish specimens of such documents as would serve
to bring out the development of the Queen's character and disposition, and to give typical
instances of her methods in dealing with political and social matters--to produce, in fact,
a book for British citizens and British subjects, rather than a book for students of political
history. That the inner working of the unwritten constitution of the country; that some of
the unrealised checks and balances; that the delicate equipoise of the component parts of our
executive machinery, should stand revealed, was inevitable. We have thought it best, throughout,
to abstain from unnecessary comment and illustration. The period is so recent, and has been
so often traversed by historians and biographers, that it appeared to us a waste of valuable
space to attempt to reconstruct the history of the years from which this correspondence has
been selected, especially as Sir Theodore Martin, under the auspices of the Queen herself,
has dealt so minutely and exhaustively with the relations of the Queen's innermost circle to
the political and social life of the time. It is tempting, of course, to add illustrative anecdotes
from the abundant Biographies and Memoirs of the period; but our aim has been to infringe as
little as possible upon the space available for the documents themselves, and to provide just
sufficient comment to enable an ordinary reader, without special knowledge of the period, to
follow the course of events, and to realise the circumstances under which the Queen's childhood
was passed, the position of affairs at the time of her accession, and the personalities of
those who had influenced her in early years, or by whom she was surrounded.

The development of the Queen's character is clearly indicated in the papers, and it possesses
an extraordinary interest. We see one of highly vigorous and active temperament, of strong
affections, and with a deep sense of responsibility, placed at an early age, and after a quiet
girlhood, in a position the greatness of which it is impossible to exaggerate. We see her character
expand and deepen, schooled by mighty experience into patience and sagacity and wisdom, and
yet never losing a particle of the strength, the decision, and the devotion with which she
had been originally endowed. Up to the year 1861 the Queen's career was one of unexampled prosperity.
She was happy in her temperament, in her health, in her education, in her wedded life, in her
children. She saw a great Empire grow through troubled times in liberty and power and greatness;
yet this prosperity brought with it no shadow of complacency, because the Queen felt with an
increasing depth the anxieties and responsibilities inseparable from her great position. Her
happiness, instead of making her self-absorbed, only quickened her beneficence and her womanly
desire that her subjects should be enabled to enjoy a similar happiness based upon the same
simple virtues. Nothing comes out more strongly in these documents than the laborious patience
with which the Queen kept herself informed of the minutest details of political and social
movements both in her own and other countries.

It is a deeply inspiring spectacle to see one surrounded by every temptation which worldly
greatness can present, living from day to day so simple, vivid, and laborious a life; and it
is impossible to conceive a more fruitful example of duty and affection and energy, displayed
on so august a scale, and in the midst of such magnificent surroundings. We would venture to
believe that nothing could so deepen the personal devotion of the Empire to the memory of that
great Queen who ruled it so wisely and so long, and its deeply-rooted attachment to the principle
of constitutional monarchy, as the gracious act of His Majesty the King in allowing the inner
side of that noble life and career to be more clearly revealed to a nation whose devotion to
their ancient liberties is inseparably connected with their loyalty to the Throne.

EDITORIAL NOTE

Our special thanks, for aid in the preparation of these volumes, are due to Viscount Morley
of Blackburn, who has read and criticised the book in its final form; to Mr J. W. Headlam,
of the Board of Education, and formerly Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, for much valuable
assistance in preparing the prefatory historical memoranda; to Mr W. F. Reddaway, Fellow of
King's College, Cambridge, for revision and advice throughout, in connection with the introductions
and annotations; to Lord Knollys, for criticism of selected materials; to Lord Stanmore, for
the loan of valuable documents; to Dr Eugene Oswald, for assistance in translation; to Mr C.
C. Perry and M. G. Hua, for verification of French and German documents; to Miss Bertha Williams,
for unremitting care and diligence in preparing the volumes for press; to Mr John Murray, our
publisher, for his unfailing patience and helpfulness; and especially to Mr Hugh Childers,
for his ungrudging help in the preparation of the Introductory annual summaries, and in the
political and historical annotation, as well as for his invaluable co-operation at every stage
of the work.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

Ancestry of Queen Victoria--Houses of Brunswick, Hanover, and Coburg --Family connections--The
English Royal Family--The Royal Dukes--Duke of Cumberland--Family of George III.--Political
position of the Queen (Pages 1-7)

CHAPTER II

Queen Victoria's early years--Duke and Duchess of Kent--Parliamentary grant to Duchess of Kent--The
Queen of Würtemberg--George IV. and the Princess--Visits to Windsor--Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld
--Education of the Princess--The Duchess of Kent's letter to the Bishops--Religious instruction--Result
of examination--Speech by Duchess of Kent--The Princess's reminiscences of Claremont--William
IV. and the Princess--The accession--Queen Victoria's character and temperament--Her sympathy
with the middle classes (Pages 8-21)

CHAPTER III

Queen Victoria's relations and friends--King Leopold's influence --Queen Adelaide--Baroness
Lehzen--Baron Stockmar (Pages 22-26)

CHAPTER IV 1821-1835

Observations on the correspondence with King Leopold and others--First letter received by Queen
Victoria--Her first letter to Prince Leopold --Birthday letters--King Leopold's description
of his Queen--His valuable advice--The Princess's visit to Hever Castle--King Leopold's advice
as to reading, and the Princess's reply--New Year greeting --On autographs--The Princess's
confirmation--King Leopold's advice as to honesty and sincerity (pages 27-42)

CHAPTER V 1836

Visit of Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg--Invitation to the Prince of Orange--Arrival of Princes
Ernest and Albert--The Princess's appreciation of Prince Albert--King Leopold's advice as to
conversation--Crisis in Spain--Farewell letter--The Princess and the Church--Death of Charles
X.--Abuse of King Leopold--Revolution at Lisbon--The Princess's name--Newspaper attacks on
King Leopold (pages 43-55)

CHAPTER VI 1837

Spain and Portugal--Music with Princes Ernest and Albert --Parliamentary language and political
passion--The throne of Greece --Queen of the Belgians' dowry--The English Press--The Princess's
establishment--Young Belgian cousins--Irish Municipal Bill--Whig Ministers--Birthday rejoicings--King
Leopold's advice and encouragement--Accession imminent--Condition of the King--Reliance on
Lord Melbourne--The Princess and the Church--The Accession--The Queen's journal--Interview
with Lord Melbourne--The Queen's first Council--Letter from the King of the French--Congratulations
from King Leopold--Nationality of the Queen--The Queen and her Ministers --Reflection advised--Baron
Stockmar--Important subjects for study --Sister Queens--Letter from Queen Adelaide--Buckingham
Palace--Madame de Lieven--Parliament prorogued--England and Russia--Discretion advised --Singing
lessons--The elections--Prevalence of bribery--End of King Leopold's visit--Reception at Brighton--Security
of letters--England and France--France and the Peninsula--Count Molé--The French in Africa
--Close of the session--Prince Albert's education--Canada--Army estimates--Secretaries of State
(pages 56-101)

CHAPTER VII 1838

Lord Melbourne--Canada--Influence of the Crown--Daniel O'Connell --Position of Ministers of
State in England and abroad--New Poor Law --Pressure of business--Prince Albert's education--Favourite
horses --Deaths of old servants--The Coronation--Address from Bishops--Ball at Buckingham Palace--Independence
and progress of Belgium --Anglo-Belgian relations--Foreign policy--Holland and Belgium --Coronation
Day--Westminster Abbey--The enthronement--Receiving homage--Popular enthusiasm--Coronation
incidents--Pages of honour --Extra holidays for schools--Review in Hyde Park--Lord Durham and
Canada--Government of Canada--Ireland and O'Connell--Death of Lady John Russell--The Queen's
sympathy with Lord John Russell--Belgium and English Government--Belgium and Holland--Canada--Resignation
of the Earl of Durham--English Church for Malta--Disappointment of Duke of Sussex--Brighton
(pages 102-140)

CHAPTER VIII 1839

Murder of Lord Norbury--Holland and Belgium--Dissension in the Cabinet --The Duke of Lucca--Portugal--Ireland
and the Government--England and Belgium--Prince Albert's tour in Italy--Jamaica--Change of
Ministry imminent--The Queen's distress--Interviews with the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert
Peel--Lord Melbourne on Sir Robert Peel--The Household --Proposed new Cabinet--Interview with
Lord Melbourne--The Ladies of the Household and Sir Robert Peel--Reply to Sir Robert Peel --Resignation
of Sir Robert Peel--The Queen's journal--Cabinet minute --Whigs resume office--Ball at Buckingham
Palace--Lord John Russell and Sir Robert Peel--The Queen on the crisis--King Leopold's approval
--The penny postage--The Queen and Prince Albert--Syria--England and the Sultan--Proposed visit
of King Louis Philippe--Preparing the Queen's speech--King Leopold's feeling for the Queen--Coming
visit of Prince Albert--Arrival of Princes Ernest and Albert--The Queen's engagement to Prince
Albert--Lord Melbourne's congratulations--King Leopold's satisfaction--Austria and the Porte--The
Queen's happiness --Queen Louise's congratulations--The Queen's letters to the Royal Family--The
Prince's religion--Announcement to the Council--Marriage treaty--Question of a peerage--English
susceptibilities--Letter from Donna Maria--Household appointments--Mayor of Newport knighted--The
word "Protestant"--The Prince's coat-of-arms--The Prince and Mr Anson --Appointment of Treasurer--The
Prince and Lord Melbourne (pages 141-208)

CHAPTER IX 1840

Letters to Prince Albert--Opening of Parliament--The Prince's grant --The Prince at Brussels--Marriage
of the Queen and Prince--Public enthusiasm--Plays in Lent--Debate on the Corn Laws--England
and China --Disturbance at the Opera--Murder of Lord William Russell--Mrs Norton --Character
of Princess Charlotte--English manners--Oxford's attempt on the Queen's life--Egypt and the
Four Powers--Prince Louis Napoleon --King Leopold at Wiesbaden--A threatened crisis--France
and the East --A difficult question--Serious measures--Palmerston and France--Views of King
Louis Philippe--Propositions for settlement--Attitude of France--Pacific instructions--The
Porte and Mehemet Ali--Bombardment of Beyrout--Guizot and Thiers--Differing views--The Queen's
influence --An anxious time--Attempt on life of King Louis Philippe--Negotiation with France
advised--Thiers more moderate--Death of Lord Holland --Change of Ministry in France--Importance
of conciliation--The Prince's name in the Prayer-book--King Leopold on Lord Palmerston --Birth
of the Princess Royal--Settlement of Eastern Question (pages 209-252)

CHAPTER X 1841

Letter to King Leopold--The Prince and literature--The speech from the throne--Domestic happiness--Duke
of Wellington's illness--England and the United States--Operations in China--Lord Cardigan--Army
discipline --The Nottingham election--The Budget--Irish Registration Bill--Sugar duties--Ministerial
crisis--Lord Melbourne's advice--Dissolution or resignation--The Household question--Sir Robert
Peel--Mr Anson's intervention--Interview with Lord Melbourne--King Leopold's sympathy --The
Corn Laws--The Queen's journal--The Prince's support--Further interviews--Resignation postponed--The
Queen and the Church--King Leopold's advice--The Queen's impartiality--Difficulties removed--Vote
of want of confidence--The country quiet--King Leopold's views--Fiscal Policy--Marriage of
Lord John Russell--Visit to Nuneham--Archbishop Harcourt--The Prince visits Oxford--Letter
from Lord Brougham--Visit to Woburn Abbey--Lord Melbourne and the Garter--A dreaded moment
--Debate on the Speech--Overwhelming majority--Resignation--New arrangements--Parting with
Lord Melbourne--The Prince in a new position--The Queen and Sir Robert Peel--Lord Melbourne's
opinion of the Prince--The Household question--New Cabinet--Lord Melbourne's official farewell--Sir
Robert Peel's reception--New appointments --Council at Claremont--The Lord Chamberlain's department--The
French ambassador--Confidential communications--The diplomatic corps --Governor-General of
Canada--India and Afghanistan--Lord Ellenborough --Russia and Central Asia--Indian finances--The
Spanish mission --Correspondence with Lord Melbourne--Fine Arts Commission--Peers and audiences--Lord
Radnor's claim--The Chinese campaign--English and foreign artists--Lord Melbourne and the Court--The
Queen and her Government--Baron Stockmar's opinion--Lord Melbourne's influence --Baron Stockmar
and Sir Robert Peel--Professor Whewell--Queen Christina--Queen Isabella--French influence in
Spain--Holland and Belgium--Dispute with United States--Portugal--The English Constitution--The
"Prime Minister"--The "Secretaries of State"--Baron Stockmar expostulates with Lord Melbourne--Birth
of Heir-apparent --Created Prince of Wales--The Royal children (pages 253-369)

CHAPTER XI 1842

Letter from Queen Adelaide--Disasters in Afghanistan--The Oxford movement--Church matters--The
Duke of Wellington and the christening --Lord Melbourne ill--A favourite dog--The King of Prussia--Marriage
of Prince Ernest--Christening of the Prince of Wales--The Corn Laws --Marine excursion--Fall
of Cabul--Candidates for the Garter--The Earl of Munster--The Queen and Income Tax--Lambeth
Palace--Sale at Strawberry Hill--Selection of a governess--Party politics--A brilliant ball--The
Prince and the Army--Lady Lyttelton's appointment--Goethe and Schiller--Edwin Landseer--The
Mensdorff family--Attack on the Queen by Francis--Letters from Queen Adelaide and Lord Melbourne
--Successes in Afghanistan--Sir R. Sale and General Pollock--Debate on Income Tax--The Queen's
first railway journey--Conviction of Francis--Presents for the Queen--Another attack on the
Queen by Bean --Death of Duke of Orleans--Grief of the Queen--Letters from the King and Queen
of the French--Leigh Hunt--Lord Melbourne on marriages --Resignation of Lord Hill--Appointment
of Duke of Wellington --Manchester riots--Military assistance--Parliament prorogued--Causes
of discontent--Mob in Lincoln's Inn Fields--Trouble at the Cape--Tour in Scotland--Visit to
Lord Breadalbane--Return to Windsor--Royal visitors--A steam yacht for the Queen--Future of
Queen Isabella--The Princess Lichtenstein--Historical works--Walmer Castle--Lord Melbourne's
illness--The Crown jewels--Provision for Princess Augusta --Success in China--A treaty signed--Victories
in Afghanistan--Honours for the army--The gates of Somnauth--France and Spain--Major Malcolm
--The Scottish Church--A serious crisis--Letter from Lord Melbourne --Esteem for Baron Stockmar
(370-449)

CHAPTER XII 1843

Recollections of Claremont--Historical writers--Governor-Generalship of Canada--Mr Drummond
shot--Mistaken for Sir Robert Peel--Death of Mr Drummond--Demeanour of MacNaghten--Letter from
Lord Melbourne --Preparations for the trial--The Royal Family and politics--King Leopold and
Sir Robert Peel--The American treaty--Position of the Prince of Wales--Good wishes from Queen
Adelaide--Proposed exchange of visits--Mr Cobden's speech--The new chapel--Fanny Burney's diary
--MacNaghten acquitted--Question of criminal insanity--Princess Mary of Baden--The Prince and
the Levées--Sir Robert Peel's suggestions --Police arrangements--Looking for the comet--Flowers
from Lord Melbourne--The Royal children--The toast of the Prince--King of Hanover's proposed
visit--Gates of Somnauth restored--Death of Duke of Sussex--Birth and christening of Princess
Alice--Irish agitation --Rebecca riots--Duchess of Norfolk's resignation--Duelling in the Army--Outpensioners
of Chelsea--Crown jewels--Obstruction of business --Lord Melbourne on matrimonial affairs--Visit
to Château d'Eu --Increased troubles in Wales--Royal visitors--England and Spain --Arrest of
O'Connell--Duc de Bordeaux not received at Court--Duc de Nemours expected--Visit to Cambridge--Duc
d'Aumale's engagement --Indian affairs--Loyalty at Cambridge--Proposed visit to Drayton Manor--Travelling
arrangements--Duchesse de Nemours--Birmingham --Canadian seat of government--Chatsworth--American
view of monarchy --Prince Metternich and Spain (450-512)

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

QUEEN VICTORIA RECEIVING THE NEWS OF HER ACCESSION TO THE THRONE, 20TH JUNE 1837. From the
picture by H. T. Wells, R.A., at Buckingham Palace

T.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF KENT AND THE PRINCESS VICTORIA. From the miniature by H. Bone, after
Sir W. Beechey, at Windsor Castle

H.R.H. THE PRINCESS VICTORIA, 1827. By Plant, after Stewart. From the miniature at Buckingham,
Palace

H.M. KING WILLIAM IV. From a miniature at Windsor Castle

H.R.H. THE PRINCE CONSORT, 1840. From the portrait by John Partridge at Buckingham Palace

H.M. QUEEN VICTORIA, 1841. From the drawing by E. F. T., after H. E. Dawe, at Buckingham Palace

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I

THE ANCESTRY OF THE QUEEN--HOUSES OF BRUNSWICK, HANOVER, AND COBURG

QUEEN VICTORIA, on her father's side, belonged to the House of Brunswick, which was undoubtedly
one of the oldest, and claimed to be actually the oldest, of German princely families. At the
time of her birth, it existed in two branches, of which, the one ruled over what was called
the Duchy of Brunswick, the other over the Electorate (since 1815 the Kingdom) of Hanover,
and had since 1714 occupied the throne of England. There had been frequent intermarriages between
the two branches. The Dukes of Brunswick were now, however, represented only by two young princes,
who were the sons of the celebrated Duke who fell at Quatre-Bras. Between them and the English
Court there was little intercourse. The elder, Charles, had quarrelled with his uncle and guardian,
George IV., and had in 1830 been expelled from his dominions. The obvious faults of his character
made it impossible for the other German princes to insist on his being restored, and he had
been succeeded by his younger brother William, who ruled till his death in 1884. Both died
unmarried, and with them the Ducal family came to an end. One Princess of Brunswick had been
the wife of George IV., and another, Augusta, was the first wife of Frederick I., King of Würtemberg,
who, after her death, married a daughter of George III. The King of Würtemberg was also, by
his descent from Frederick Prince of Wales, first cousin once removed of the Queen. We need
only notice, in passing, the distant connection with the royal families of Prussia, the Netherlands,
and Denmark. The Prince of Orange, who was one of the possible suitors for the young Queen's
hand, was her third cousin once removed.

[Pageheading: THE HOUSE OF SAXE-COBURG-GOTHA]

The House of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, to which the Queen belonged on her mother's side, and with
which she was to be even more intimately connected by her marriage, was one of the numerous
branches into which the ancient and celebrated House of Wettin had broken up. Since the 11th
century they had ruled over Meissen and the adjoining districts. To these had been added Upper
Saxony and Thuringia. In the 15th century the whole possessions of the House had been divided
between the two great branches which still exist. The Albertine branch retained Meissen and
the Saxon possessions. They held the title of Elector, which in 1806 was exchanged for the
title of King. Though the Saxon House had been the chief protectors of the Reformation, Frederick
Augustus I. had, on being elected to the throne of Poland, become a Roman Catholic; and thereby
the connection between the two branches of the House had to a great extent ceased. The second
line, that of the Ernestines, ruled over Thuringia, but, according to the common German custom,
had again broken up into numerous branches, among which the Duchies of Thuringia were parcelled
out. At the time of the Queen's birth there were five of these, viz., Gotha-Altenburg, Coburg-Saalfeld,
Weimar-Eisenach, Meiningen, and Hildburghausen. On the extinction of the Gotha line, in 1825,
there was a rearrangement of the family property, by which the Duke of Hildburghausen received
Altenburg, Gotha was given to the Duke of Coburg, and Saalfeld with Hildburghausen added to
Meiningen. These four lines still exist.

The Ernestine princes had, by this constant division and sub-division, deprived themselves
of the opportunity of exercising any predominant influence, or pursuing any independent policy
in German affairs; and though they had the good fortune to emerge from the revolution with
their possessions unimpaired, their real power was not increased. Like all the other princes,
they had, however, at the Congress of Vienna, received the recognition of their full status
as sovereign princes of the Germanic Confederation. Together they sent a single representative
to the Diet of Frankfort, the total population of the five principalities being only about
300,000 inhabitants.

It was owing to this territorial sub-division and lack of cohesion that these princes could
not attach to their independence the same political importance that fell to the share of the
larger principalities, such as Hanover and Bavaria, and they were consequently more ready than
the other German princes to welcome proposals which would lead to a unification of Germany.

It is notable that the line has produced many of the most enlightened of the German princes;
and nowhere in the whole of Germany were the advantages of the division into numerous small
States so clearly seen, and the disadvantages so little felt, as at Weimar, Meiningen, Gotha,
and Coburg.

[Pageheading: THE HOUSE OF COBURG]

The House of Coburg had gained a highly conspicuous and influential position, owing, partly,
to the high reputation for sagacity and character which the princes of that House had won,
and partly to the marriage connections which were entered into about this time by members of
the Coburg House with the leading Royal families of Europe. Within ten years, Princes of Coburg
were established, one upon the throne of Belgium, and two others next to the throne in Portugal
and England, as Consorts of their respective Queens.

By the first marriage of the Duchess of Kent, the Queen was also connected with a third class
of German princes--the Mediatised, as those were called who during the revolution had lost
their sovereign power. Many of these were of as ancient lineage and had possessed as large
estates as some of the regnant princes, who, though not always more deserving, had been fortunate
enough to retain their privileges, and had emerged from the revolution ranking among the ruling
Houses of Europe. The mediatised princes, though they had ceased to rule, still held important
privileges, which were guaranteed at the Congress of Vienna. First, and most important, they
were reckoned as "ebenburtig," which means that they could contract equal marriages with the
Royal Houses, and these marriages were recognised as valid for the transmission of rights of
inheritance. Many of them had vast private estates, and though they were subjected to the sovereignty
of the princes in whose dominions these lay, they enjoyed very important privileges, such as
exemption from military service, and from many forms of taxation; they also could exercise
minor forms of jurisdiction. They formed, therefore, an intermediate class. Since Germany,
as a whole, afforded them no proper sphere of political activity, the more ambitious did not
disdain to take service with Austria or Prussia, and, to a less extent, even with the smaller
States. It was possible, therefore, for the Queen's mother, a Princess of Saxe-Coburg, to marry
the Prince of Leiningen without losing caste. Her daughter, the Princess Feodore, the Queen's
half-sister, married Ernest, Prince of Hohenlohe-Langenburg, and thus established an interesting
connection with perhaps the most widely-spread and most distinguished of all these families.
The House of Hohenlohe would probably still have been a reigning family, had not the Prince
of Hohenlohe preferred to fight in the Prussian army against Napoleon, rather than receive
gifts from him. His lands were consequently confiscated and passed to other princes who were
less scrupulous. The family has given two Ministers President to Prussia, a General in chief
command of the Prussian army, a Chancellor to the German Empire, and one of the most distinguished
of modern military writers. They held, besides their extensive possessions in Würtemberg and
Bavaria, the County of Gleichen in Saxe-Coburg.

[Pageheading: FAMILY CONNECTIONS]

It will be seen therefore that the Queen was intimately connected with all classes that are
to be found among the ruling families of Germany, though naturally with the Catholic families,
which looked to Austria and Bavaria for guidance, she had no close ties. But it must be borne
in mind that her connection with Germany always remained a personal and family matter, and
not a political one; this was the fortunate result of the predominance of the Coburg influence.
Had that of the House of Hanover been supreme, it could hardly have been possible for the Queen
not to have been drawn into the opposition to the unification of Germany by Prussia, in which
the House of Hanover was bound to take a leading part, in virtue of its position, wealth, and
dignity.

It will be as well here to mention the principal reigning families of Europe to which Queen
Victoria was closely allied through her mother.

The Duchess of Kent's eldest brother, Ernest, Duke of Saxe-Coburg, was the father of Albert,
Prince Consort. Her sister was the wife of Alexander, Duke of Würtemberg. The Duchess of Kent's
nephew, Ferdinand (son of Ferdinand, the Duchess's brother), married Maria da Gloria, Queen
of Portugal, and was father of Pedro V. and Luis, both subsequently Kings of Portugal.

The Duchess's third brother, Leopold (afterwards King of the Belgians), married first the Princess
Charlotte, daughter of George IV., and afterwards the Princess Louise Marie, eldest daughter
of King Louis Philippe. Prince Augustus (son of Ferdinand, the Duchess of Kent's brother) married
another daughter of Louis Philippe, the Princess Clémentine, while Prince Augustus's sister,
Victoria, married the Duc de Nemours, a son of Louis Philippe. Another nephew, Duke Friedrich
Wilhelm Alexander, son of the Duchess of Würtemberg, married the Princess Marie, another daughter
of Louis Philippe.

Thus Queen Victoria was closely allied with the royal families of France, Portugal, Belgium,
Saxe-Coburg, and Würtemberg.

On turning to the immediate Royal Family of England, it will be seen that the male line at
the time of the Queen's accession was limited to the sons, both named George, of two of the
younger brothers of George IV., the Dukes of Cumberland and Cambridge. The sons of George III.
played their part in the national life, shared the strong interest in military matters, and
showed the great personal courage which was a tradition of the family.

[Pageheading: THE ENGLISH ROYAL FAMILY]

It must be borne in mind that abstention from active political life had been in no sense required,
or even thought desirable, in members of the Royal House. George III. himself had waged a life-long
struggle with the Whig party, that powerful oligarchy that since the accession of the House
of Hanover had virtually ruled the country; but he did not carry on the conflict so much by
encouraging the opponents of the Whigs, as by placing himself at the head of a monarchical
faction. He was in fact the leader of a third party in the State. George IV. was at first a
strong Whig, and lived on terms of the greatest intimacy with Charles James Fox; but by the
time that he was thirty, he had severed the connection with his former political friends, which
had indeed originally arisen more out of his personal opposition to his father than from any
political convictions. After this date he became, with intervals of vacillation, an advanced
Tory of an illiberal type. William IV. had lived so much aloof from politics before his accession,
that he had had then no very pronounced opinions, though he was believed to be in favour of
the Reform Bill; during his reign his Tory sympathies became more pronounced, and the position
of the Whig Ministry was almost an intolerable one. His other brothers were men of decided
views, and for the most part of high social gifts. They not only attended debates in the House
of Peers, but spoke with emotion and vigour; they held political interviews with leading statesmen,
and considered themselves entitled, not to over-rule political movements, but to take the part
in them to which their strong convictions prompted them. They were particularly prominent in
the debates on the Catholic question, and did not hesitate to express their views with an energy
that was often embarrassing. The Duke of York and the Duke of Cumberland had used all their
influence to encourage the King in his opposition to Catholic Emancipation, while the Duke
of Cambridge had supported that policy, and the Duke of Sussex had spoken in the House of Lords
in favour of it. The Duke of York, a kindly, generous man, had held important commands in the
earlier part of the Revolutionary war; he had not shown tactical nor strategical ability, but
he was for many years Commander-in-Chief of the Army, and did good administrative work in initiating
and carrying out much-needed military reforms. He had married a Prussian princess, but left
no issue, and his death, in 1827, left the succession open to his younger brother, the Duke
of Clarence, afterwards King William IV., and after him to the Princess Victoria.

[Pageheading: THE ROYAL DUKES]

The Duke of Kent was, as we shall have occasion to show, a strong Whig with philanthropic views.
But the ablest of the princes, though also the most unpopular, was the Duke of Cumberland,
who, until the birth of the Queen's first child, was heir presumptive to the Throne. He had
been one of the most active members of the ultra-Tory party, who had opposed to the last the
Emancipation of the Catholics and the Reform Bill. He had married a sister-in-law of the King
of Prussia, and lived much in Berlin, where he was intimate with the leaders of the military
party, who were the centre of reactionary influences in that country, chief among them being
his brother-in-law, Prince Charles of Mecklenburg.

In private life the Duke was bluff and soldier-like, of rather a bullying turn, and extraordinarily
indifferent to the feelings of others. "Ernest is not a bad fellow," his brother William IV.
said of him, "but if anyone has a corn, he will be sure to tread on it." He was very unpopular
in England.

On the death of William IV. he succeeded to the throne of Hanover, and from that time seldom
visited England. His first act on reaching his kingdom was to declare invalid the Constitution
which had been granted in 1833 by William IV. His justification for this was that his consent,
as heir presumptive, which was necessary for its validity, had not at the time been asked.
The act caused great odium to be attached to his name by all Liberals, both English and Continental,
and it was disapproved of even by his old Tory associates. None the less he soon won great
popularity in his own dominions by his zeal, good-humour, and energy, and in 1840 he came to
terms with the Estates. A new Constitution was drawn up which preserved more of the Royal prerogatives
than the instrument of 1833. Few German princes suffered so little in the revolution of 1848.
The King died in 1851, at the age of eighty, and left one son, George, who had been blind from
his boyhood. He was the last King of Hanover, being expelled by the Prussians in 1866. On the
failure of the Ducal line of Brunswick, the grandson of Ernest Augustus became heir to their
dominions, he and his sons being now the sole male representatives of all the branches of the
House of Brunswick, which a few generations ago was one of the most numerous and widely-spread
ruling Houses in Germany.[1]

    [Footnote 1: Of the daughters of George III., Princess Amelia
    had died in 1810, and the Queen of Würtemberg in 1828; two
    married daughters survived--Elizabeth, wife of the Landgrave
    of Hesse-Homburg, and Mary, who had married her cousin, the
    Duke of Gloucester, and lived in England. There were also two
    unmarried daughters, the Princesses Augusta and Sophia, living
    in England.]

The Duke of Sussex was in sympathy with many Liberal movements, and supported the removal of
religious disabilities, the abolition of the Corn Laws, and Parliamentary Reform.

The Duke of Cambridge was a moderate Tory, and the most conciliatory of all the princes. But
for more than twenty years he took little part in English politics, as he was occupied with
his duties as Regent of Hanover, where he did much by prudent reforms to retain the allegiance
of the Hanoverians. On his return to England he resumed the position of a peacemaker, supporting
philanthropic movements, and being a generous patron of art and letters. He was recognised
as "emphatically the connecting link between the Crown and the people." Another member of the
Royal Family was the Duke of Gloucester, nephew and son-in-law of George III.; he was more
interested in philanthropic movements than in politics, but was a moderate Conservative, who
favoured Catholic Emancipation but was opposed to Parliamentary Reform.

Thus we have the spectacle of seven Royal princes, of whom two succeeded to the Throne, all
or nearly all avowed politicians of decided convictions, throwing the weight of their influence
and social position for the most part on the side of the Tory party, and believing it to be
rather their duty to hold and express strong political opinions than to adopt the moderating
and conciliatory attitude in matters of government that is now understood to be the true function
of the Royal House.

[Pageheading: INDEPENDENCE OF THE QUEEN]

The Queen, after her accession, always showed great respect and affection for her uncles, but
they were not able to exercise any influence over her character or opinions.

This was partly due to the fact that from an early age she had imbibed a respect for liberal
views from her uncle Leopold, King of the Belgians, to whom she was devoted from her earliest
childhood, and for whom she entertained feelings of the deepest admiration, affection, and
confidence; but still more was it due to the fact that, from the very first, the Queen instinctively
formed an independent judgment on any question that concerned her; and though she was undoubtedly
influenced in her decisions by her affectionate reliance on her chosen advisers, yet those
advisers were always deliberately and shrewdly selected, and their opinions were in no case
allowed to do more than modify her own penetrating and clear-sighted judgment.

CHAPTER II

MEMOIR OF QUEEN VICTORIA'S EARLY YEARS

ALEXANDRINA VICTORIA, Queen of Great Britain and Ireland and Empress of India, was born on
Monday, 24th May 1819, at Kensington Palace.

Her father, Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn (1767-1820), the fourth son of George III.,
was a man of decided character, kindly, pious, punctual, with a strict sense of duty and enlightened
ideas. He was a devoted soldier, and, as Queen Victoria once said, "was proud of his profession,
and I was always taught to consider myself a soldier's child." He had a wide military experience,
having served at Gibraltar, in Canada, and in the West Indies. He had been mentioned in despatches,
but was said to be over-strict in matters of unimportant detail. His active career was brought
to an end in 1802, when he had been sent to Gibraltar to restore order in a mutinous garrison.
Order had been restored, but the Duke was recalled under allegations of having exercised undue
severity, and the investigation which he demanded was refused him, though he was afterwards
made a Field-Marshal.

He was a man of advanced Liberal ideas. He had spoken in the House of Lords in favour of Catholic
Emancipation, and had shown himself interested in the abolition of slavery and in popular education.
His tastes were literary, and towards the end of his life he had even manifested a strong sympathy
for socialistic theories.

At the time of the death of the Princess Charlotte, 6th November 1817, the married sons of
King George III. were without legitimate children, and the surviving daughters were either
unmarried or childless. Alliances were accordingly arranged for the three unmarried Royal Dukes,
and in the course of the year 1818 the Dukes of Cambridge, Kent, and Clarence led their brides
to the altar.

[Pageheading: THE DUKE AND DUCHESS OF KENT]

The Duchess of Kent (1786-1861), Victoria Mary Louisa, was a daughter of Francis, Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld.
She was the widow of Emich Charles, Prince of Leiningen,[1] whom she had married in 1803, and
who had died in 1814, leaving a son and a daughter by her.

    [Footnote 1: Leiningen, a mediatised princely House of
    Germany, dating back to 1096. In 1779 the head of one of
    the branches into which it had become divided, the Count of
    Leiningen-Dachsburg-Hardenburg, was raised to the rank of
    a prince of the Empire, but the Peace of Lunéville (1801)
    deprived him of his ancient possessions, extending about
    232 miles on the left bank of the Rhine. Though no longer an
    independent Prince, the head of the House retains his rank and
    wealth, and owns extensive estates in Bavaria and Hesse.]

The Duke of Kent died prematurely--though he had always been a conspicuously healthy man--at
Sidmouth, on the 23rd of January 1820, only a week before his father.

A paper preserved in the Windsor archives gives a touching account of the Duke's last hours.
The Regent, on the 22nd of January, sent to him a message of solicitude and affection, expressing
an anxious wish for his recovery. The Duke roused himself to enquire how the Prince was in
health, and said, "If I could now shake hands with him, I should die in peace." A few hours
before the end, one who stood by the curtain of his bed heard the Duke say with deep emotion,
"May the Almighty protect my wife and child, and forgive all the sins I have committed." His
last words--addressed to his wife--were, "Do not forget me."

The Duchess of Kent was an affectionate, impulsive woman, with more emotional sympathy than
practical wisdom in worldly matters. But her claim on the gratitude of the British nation is
that she brought up her illustrious daughter in habits of simplicity, self-sacrifice, and obedience.

As a testimony to the sincere appreciation entertained by the politicians of the time for the
way in which the Duchess of Kent had appreciated her responsibilities with regard to the education
of a probable heir to the Crown of England, we may quote a few sentences from two speeches
made in the House of Commons, in the debate which took place (27th May 1825) on the question
of increasing the Parliamentary annuity paid to the Duchess, in order to provide duly for the
education of the young Princess.

The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr Robinson, afterwards Lord Ripon, said:

  "The position in which this Princess stood with respect to the
  throne of the country could not fail to make her an object of
  general interest to the nation. He had not himself the honour
  of being acquainted with the Duchess of Kent, but he believed
  that she had taken the greatest pains with her daughter's
  education. She had been brought up in principles of piety and
  morality, and to feel a proper sense, he meant by that an
  humble sense, of her own dignity, and the rank which probably
  awaited her. Perhaps it might have been fit to have brought
  this matter before Parliament at an earlier period."

Mr Canning said:

  "All parties agreed in the propriety of the Grant, and if
  Government had anything to answer for on this point, it was
  for having so long delayed bringing it before the House. There
  could not be a greater compliment to Her Royal Highness than
  to state the quiet unobtrusive tenor of her life, and that
  she had never made herself the object of public gaze, but had
  devoted herself to the education of her child, whom the House
  was now called upon to adopt."

[Pageheading: EARLY REMINISCENCES]

In the year 1872 Queen Victoria wrote down with her own hand some reminiscences of her early
childhood, the manuscript of which is preserved at Windsor, and which may be quoted here.

"My earliest recollections are connected with Kensington Palace, where I can remember crawling
on a yellow carpet spread out for that purpose--and being told that if I cried and was naughty
my 'Uncle Sussex' would hear me and punish me, for which reason I always screamed when I saw
him! I had a great horror of Bishops on account of their wigs and aprons, but recollect this
being partially got over in the case of the then Bishop of Salisbury (Dr Fisher, great-uncle
to Mr Fisher, Private Secretary to the Prince of Wales), by his kneeling down and letting me
play with his badge of Chancellor of the Order of the Garter. With another Bishop, however,
the persuasion of showing him my 'pretty shoes' was of no use. Claremont remains as the brightest
epoch of my otherwise rather melancholy childhood--where to be under the roof of that beloved
Uncle--to listen to some music in the Hall when there were dinner-parties--and to go and see
dear old Louis!--the former faithful and devoted Dresser and friend of Princess Charlotte--beloved
and respected by all who knew her--and who doted on the little Princess who was too much an
idol in the House. This dear old lady was visited by every one--and was the only really devoted
Attendant of the poor Princess, whose governesses paid little real attention to her--and who
never left her, and was with her when she died. I used to ride a donkey given me by my Uncle,
the Duke of York, who was very kind to me. I remember him well--tall, rather large, very kind
but extremely shy. He always gave me beautiful presents. The last time I saw him was at Mr
Greenwood's house, where D. Carlos lived at one time,--when he was already very ill,--and he
had Punch and Judy in the garden for me.

[Pageheading: EARLY REMINISCENCES]

"To Ramsgate we used to go frequently in the summer, and I remember living at Townley House
(near the town), and going there by steamer. Mamma was very unwell. Dear Uncle Leopold went
with us.

"To Tunbridge Wells we also went, living at a house called Mt. Pleasant, now an Hotel. Many
pleasant days were spent here, and the return to Kensington in October or November was generally
a day of tears. At Claremont, and in the small houses at the bathing-places, I sat and took
my lessons in my Governess's bedroom. I was not fond of learning as a little child--and baffled
every attempt to teach me my letters up to 5 years old--when I consented to learn them by their
being written down before me.

[Pageheading: GEORGE IV.]

"I remember going to Carlton House, when George IV. lived there, as quite a little child before
a dinner the King gave. The Duchess of Cambridge and my 2 cousins, George and Augusta, were
there. My Aunt, the Queen of Würtemberg (Princess Royal), came over, in the year '26, I think,
and I recollect perfectly well seeing her drive through the Park in the King's carriage with
red liveries and 4 horses, in a Cap and evening dress,--my Aunt, her sister Princess Augusta,
sitting opposite to her, also in evening attire, having dined early with the Duke of Sussex
at Kensington. She had adopted all the German fashions and spoke broken English--and had not
been in England for many many years. She was very kind and good-humoured but very large and
unwieldy. She lived at St James's and had a number of Germans with her. In the year '26 (I
think) George IV. asked my Mother, my Sister and me down to Windsor for the first time; he
had been on bad terms with my poor father when he died,--and took hardly any notice of the
poor widow and little fatherless girl, who were so poor at the time of his (the Duke of Kent's)
death, that they could not have travelled back to Kensington Palace had it not been for the
kind assistance of my dear Uncle, Prince Leopold. We went to Cumberland Lodge, the King living
at the Royal Lodge. Aunt Gloucester was there at the same time. When we arrived at the Royal
Lodge the King took me by the hand, saying: 'Give me your little paw.' He was large and gouty
but with a wonderful dignity and charm of manner. He wore the wig which was so much worn in
those days. Then he said he would give me something for me to wear, and that was his picture
set in diamonds, which was worn by the Princesses as an order to a blue ribbon on the left
shoulder. I was very proud of this,--and Lady Conyngham pinned it on my shoulder. Her husband,
the late Marquis of Conyngham, was the Lord Chamberlain and constantly there, as well as Lord
Mt. Charles (as Vice-Chamberlain), the present Lord Conyngham.

"None of the Royal Family or general visitors lived at the Royal Lodge, but only the Conyngham
family; all the rest at Cumberland Lodge. Lady Maria Conyngham (now dead, first wife to Lord
Athlumney, daughter of Lord Conyngham), then quite young, and Lord Graves (brother-in-law to
Lord Anglesey and who afterwards shot himself on account of his wife's conduct, who was a Lady
of the Bedchamber), were desired to take me a drive to amuse me. I went with them, and Baroness
(then Miss) Lehzen (my governess) in a pony carriage and 4, with 4 grey ponies (like my own),
and was driven about the Park and taken to Sandpit Gate where the King had a Menagerie--with
wapitis, gazelles, chamois, etc., etc. Then we went (I think the next day) to Virginia Water,
and met the King in his phaeton in which he was driving the Duchess of Gloucester,--and he
said 'Pop her in,' and I was lifted in and placed between him and Aunt Gloucester, who held
me round the waist. (Mamma was much frightened.) I was greatly pleased, and remember that I
looked with great respect at the scarlet liveries, etc. (the Royal Family had crimson and green
liveries and only the King scarlet and blue in those days). We drove round the nicest part
of Virginia Water and stopped at the Fishing Temple. Here there was a large barge and every
one went on board and fished, while a band played in another! There were numbers of great people
there, amongst whom was the last Duke of Dorset, then Master of the Horse. The King paid great
attention to my Sister,[2] and some people fancied he might marry her!! She was very lovely
then--about 18--and had charming manners, about which the King was extremely particular. I
afterwards went with Baroness Lehzen and Lady Maria C. to the Page Whiting's cottage. Whiting
had been at one time in my father's service. He lived where Mr Walsh now does (and where he
died years ago), in the small cottage close by; and here I had some fruit and amused myself
by cramming one of Whiting's children, a little girl, with peaches. I came after dinner to
hear the band play in the Conservatory, which is still standing, and which was lit up by coloured
lamps--the King, Royal Family, etc., sitting in a corner of the large saloon, which still stands.

    [Footnote 2: The Princess Feodore of Leiningen, afterwards
    Princess of Hohenlohe, Queen Victoria's half-sister.]

"On the second visit (I think) the following year, also in summer, there was a great encampment
of tents (the same which were used at the Camp at Chobham in '53, and some single ones at the
Breakfasts at Buckingham Palace in '68-9), and which were quite like a house, made into different
compartments. It rained dreadfully on this occasion, I well remember. The King and party dined
there, Prince and Princess Lieven, the Russian Ambassador and Ambassadress were there.

"I also remember going to see Aunt Augusta at Frogmore, where she lived always in the summer.

"We lived in a very simple, plain manner; breakfast was at half-past eight, luncheon at half-past
one, dinner at seven--to which I came generally (when it was no regular large dinner party)--eating
my bread and milk out of a small silver basin. Tea was only allowed as a great treat in later
years.

[Pageheading: DUCHESS OF SAXE-COBURG-SAALFELD]

"In 1826 (I think) my dear Grandmother, the Dowager Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, came to
Claremont, in the summer. Mamma and my sister went on part of the way to meet her, and Uncle
Leopold I think had been to fetch her as far as Dover. I recollect the excitement and anxiety
I was in, at this event,--going down the great flight of steps to meet her when she got out
of the carriage, and hearing her say, when she sat down in her room, and fixed her fine clear
blue eyes on her little grand-daughter whom she called in her letters 'the flower of May,'
'Ein schönes Kind'--'a fine child.' She was very clever and adored by her children but especially
by her sons. She was a good deal bent and walked with a stick, and frequently with her hands
on her back. She took long drives in an open carriage and I was frequently sent out with her,
which I am sorry to confess I did not like, as, like most children of that age, I preferred
running about. She was excessively kind to children, but could not bear naughty ones--and I
shall never forget her coming into the room when I had been crying and naughty at my lessons--from
the next room but one, where she had been with Mamma--and scolding me severely, which had a
very salutary effect. She dined early in the afternoon and Uncle Leopold asked many of the
neighbours and others to dinner to meet her. My brother Prince Leiningen came over with her,
and was at that time paying his court to one of her ladies, Countess Klebelsberg, whom he afterwards
married--against the wish of his grandmother and mother--but which was afterwards quite made
up. In November (I think, or it may have been at the end of October) she left, taking my sister
with her back to Coburg. I was very ill at that time, of dysentery, which illness increased
to an alarming degree; many children died of it in the village of Esher. The Doctor lost his
head, having lost his own child from it, and almost every doctor in London was away. Mr Blagden
came down and showed much energy on the occasion. I recovered, and remember well being very
cross and screaming dreadfully at having to wear, for a time, flannel next my skin. Up to my
5th year I had been very much indulged by every one, and set pretty well all at defiance. Old
Baroness de Späth, the devoted Lady of my Mother, my Nurse Mrs Brock, dear old Mrs Louis--all
worshipped the poor little fatherless child whose future then was still very uncertain; my
Uncle the Duke of Clarence's poor little child being alive, and the Duchess of Clarence had
one or two others later. At 5 years old, Miss Lehzen was placed about me, and though she was
most kind, she was very firm and I had a proper respect for her. I was naturally very passionate,
but always most contrite afterwards. I was taught from the first to beg my maid's pardon for
any naughtiness or rudeness towards her; a feeling I have ever retained, and think every one
should own their fault in a kind way to any one, be he or she the lowest--if one has been rude
to or injured them by word or deed, especially those below you. People will readily forget
an insult or an injury when others own their fault, and express sorrow or regret at what they
have done."

[Pageheading: THE EDUCATION OF THE PRINCESS]

In 1830 the Duchess of Kent wished to be satisfied that the system of education then being
pursued with the Princess was based on the right lines, and that due moral and intellectual
progress was being made. A memorandum, carefully preserved among the archives, gives an interesting
account of the steps which she took to this end.

[Pageheading: LETTER TO THE BISHOPS]

[Pageheading: RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION]

The Duchess therefore brought the matter under the consideration of those whom, from their
eminent piety, great learning, and high station, she considered best calculated to afford her
valuable advice upon so important a subject. She stated to the Bishops of London and Lincoln[3]
the particular course which had been followed in the Princess's education, and requested their
Lordships to test the result by personal examination. The nature and objects of Her Royal Highness's
appeal to these eminent prelates will be best shown by the following extracts from her letter
to the Bishops:--

  "'The Princess will be eleven years of age in May; by the
  death of her revered father when she was but eight months old,
  her sole care and charge devolved to me. Stranger as I then
  was, I became deeply impressed with the absolute necessity of
  bringing her up entirely in this country, that every feeling
  should be that of Her native land, and proving thereby my
  devotion to duty by rejecting all those feelings of home and
  kindred that divided my heart.

  "'When the Princess approached her fifth year I considered it
  the proper time to begin in a moderate way her education--an
  education that was to fit Her to be either the Sovereign of
  these realms, or to fill a junior station in the Royal Family,
  until the Will of Providence should shew at a later period
  what Her destiny was to be.

  "'A revision of the papers I send you herewith will best shew
  your Lordships the system pursued, the progress made, etc. I
  attend almost always myself every lesson, or a part; and as
  the Lady about the Princess is a competent person, she assists
  Her in preparing Her lessons for the various masters, as
  I resolved to act in that manner so as to be Her Governess
  myself. I naturally hope that I have pursued that course most
  beneficial to all the great interests at stake. At the present
  moment no concern can be more momentous, or in which the
  consequences, the interests of the Country, can be more at
  stake, than the education of its future Sovereign.

  "'I feel the time to be now come that what has been done
  should be put to some test, that if anything has been done in
  error of judgment it may be corrected, and that the plan for
  the future should be open to consideration and revision. I do
  not presume to have an over-confidence in what I have done; on
  the contrary, as a female, as a stranger (but only in birth,
  as I feel that this is my country by the duties I fulfil, and
  the support I receive), I naturally desire to have a candid
  opinion from authorities competent to give one. In that view I
  address your Lordships; I would propose to you that you advert
  to all I have stated, to the papers I lay before you, and that
  then you should personally examine the Princess with a view of
  telling me--

    "'1. If the course hitherto pursued in Her education has
        been the best; if not, where it was erroneous.

    "'2. If the Princess has made all the Progress she should
       have made.

    "'3. And if the course I am to follow is that you would
       recommend, and if not in what respect you would
       desire a change, and on what grounds.

  "'Mr Davys[4] will explain to you the nature of the Princess's
  religious education, which I have confided to him, that
  she should be brought up in the Church of England as by
  Law established. When she was at a proper age she commenced
  attending Divine Service regularly with me, and I have every
  feeling, that she has religion at Her heart, that she is
  morally impressed with it to that degree, that she is less
  liable to error by its application to Her feelings as a Child
  capable of reflection. The general bent of Her character
  is strength of intellect, capable of receiving with ease,
  information, and with a peculiar readiness in coming to a very
  just and benignant decision on any point Her opinion is asked
  on. Her adherence to truth is of so marked a character that I
  feel no apprehension of that Bulwark being broken down by any
  circumstance.

  "'I must conclude by observing that as yet the Princess is not
  aware of the station that she is likely to fill. She is aware
  of its duties, and that a Sovereign should live for others;
  so that when Her innocent mind receives the impression of Her
  future fate, she receives it with a mind formed to be sensible
  of what is to be expected from Her, and it is to be hoped, she
  will be too well grounded in Her principles to be dazzled with
  the station she is to look to.'"

    [Footnote 3: Charles James Blomfield, Bishop of London,
    1828-1853, and John Kaye, Bishop of Lincoln, 1827-1853.]

    [Footnote 4: The Rev. George Davys, the Princess's instructor,
    afterwards successively Dean of Chester and Bishop of
    Peterborough.]

The examination was undertaken by the Bishops, with highly satisfactory results. Their report says:

  "The result of the examination has been such as in our opinion
  amply to justify the plan of instruction which has been
  adopted. In answering a great variety of questions proposed to
  her, the Princess displayed an accurate knowledge of the most
  important features of Scripture History, and of the leading
  truths and precepts of the Christian Religion as taught by
  the Church of England, as well as an acquaintance with the
  Chronology and principal facts of English History remarkable
  in so young a person. To questions in Geography, the use of
  the Globes, Arithmetic, and Latin Grammar, the answers which
  the Princess returned were equally satisfactory.

  "Upon the whole, we feel no hesitation in stating our opinion
  that the Princess should continue, for some time to come, to
  pursue her studies upon the same plan which has been hitherto
  followed, and under the same superintendence. Nor do we
  apprehend that any other alterations in the plan will be
  required than those which will be gradually made by the
  judicious director of Her Highness's studies, as the mind
  expands, and her faculties are strengthened."

[Pageheading: RESULT OF EXAMINATION]

The Duchess of Kent referred all this correspondence to the Archbishop of Canterbury.[5] His
memorandum is preserved; it states he has considered the Report, and further, has himself personally
examined the Princess. He continues:

  "I feel it my duty to say that in my judgment the plan of Her
  Highness's studies, as detailed in the papers transmitted to me by
  command of your Royal Highness, is very judicious, and particularly
  suitable to Her Highness's exalted station; and that from the
  proficiency exhibited by the Princess in the examination at which
  I was present, and the general correctness and pertinency of her
  answers, I am perfectly satisfied that Her Highness's education
  in regard to cultivation of intellect, improvement of talent, and
  religious and moral principle, is conducted with so much care and
  success as to render any alteration of the system undesirable."

    [Footnote 5: Dr William Howley.]

The Princess was gradually and watchfully introduced to public life, and was never allowed
to lose sight of the fact that her exalted position carried with it definite and obvious duties.
The following speech, delivered at Plymouth in 1832, in answer to a complimentary deputation,
may stand as an instance of the view which the Duchess of Kent took of her own and her daughter's
responsibilities:--

  "It is very agreeable to the Princess and myself to hear the
  sentiments you convey to us. It is also gratifying to us to be assured
  that we owe all these kind feelings to the attachment you bear the
  King, as well as to his Predecessors of the House of Brunswick, from
  recollections of their paternal sway. The object of my life is
  to render the Princess worthy of the affectionate solicitude she
  inspires, and if it be the Will of Providence she should fill a higher
  station (I trust most fervently at a very distant day), I shall
  be fully repaid for my anxious care, if she is found competent to
  discharge the sacred trust; for communicating as the Princess does
  with all classes of Society, she cannot but perceive that the greater
  the diffusion of Religion, Knowledge, and the love of freedom in a
  country, the more orderly, industrious, and wealthy is its population,
  and that with the desire to preserve the constitutional Prerogatives
  of the Crown ought to be co-ordinate the protection of the liberties
  of the people."

[Pageheading: CLAREMONT]

The strictness of the régime under which the Princess was brought up is remarkable; and it
is possible that her later zest for simple social pleasures is partly to be accounted for by
the austere routine of her early days. In an interesting letter of 1843 to the Queen, recalling
the days of their childhood, Princess Feodore, the Queen's half-sister, wrote--

"Many, many thanks, dearest Victoria, for your kind letter of the 7th from dear Claremont.
Oh I understand how you like being there. Claremont is a dear quiet place; to me also the recollection
of the few pleasant days I spent during my youth. I always left Claremont with tears for Kensington
Palace. When I look back upon those years, which ought to have been the happiest in my life,
from fourteen to twenty, I cannot help pitying myself. Not to have enjoyed the pleasures of
youth is nothing, but to have been deprived of all intercourse, and not one cheerful thought
in that dismal existence of ours, was very hard. My only happy time was going or driving out
with you and Lehzen; then I could speak and look as I liked. I escaped some years of imprisonment,
which you, my poor darling sister, had to endure after I was married. But God Almighty has
changed both our destinies most mercifully, and has made us so happy in our homes--which is
the only real happiness in this life; and those years of trial were, I am sure, very useful
to us both, though certainly not pleasant. Thank God they are over!... I was much amused in
your last letter at your tracing the quickness of our tempers in the female line up to Grandmamma,[6]
but I must own that you are quite right!"

    [Footnote 6: Augusta Caroline Sophia, Dowager-Duchess
    of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, a Princess of Reuss Ebersdorf
    (1757-1831).]

But if there was little amusement, there was, on the other hand, great devotion; the Princess,
as a child, had that peculiar combination of self-will and warm-heartedness which is apt to
win for a child a special love from its elders. The Princess Feodore wrote to the Queen, in 1843--

"... Späth[7] wished me to thank you for the coronation print, as she could not write to you
or Albert now, she says! why, I don't see. There certainly never was such devotedness as hers,
to all our family, although it sometimes shows itself rather foolishly--with you it always
was a sort of idolatry, when she used to go upon her knees before you, when you were a child.
She and poor old Louis did all they could to spoil you, if Lehzen had not prevented and scolded
them nicely sometimes; it was quite amusing."

    [Footnote 7: Baroness Späth, Lady-in-Waiting to the Duchess of
    Kent.]

[Pageheading: WILLIAM IV.]

The Princess was brought up with exemplary simplicity at Kensington Palace, where her mother
had a set of apartments. She was often at Claremont, which belonged to her uncle Leopold, King
of the Belgians; holidays were spent at Ramsgate, Tunbridge Wells, Broadstairs, and elsewhere.

In June 1830 George IV. died, and William IV. succeeded to the Throne. He had no legitimate
offspring living; and it consequently became practically certain that if the Princess outlived
her uncle she would succeed him on the Throne. The Duchess of Kent's Parliamentary Grant was
increased, and she took advantage of her improved resources to familiarise the Princess with
the social life of the nation. They paid visits to historic houses and important towns, and
received addresses. This was a wise and prudent course, but the King spoke with ill-humour
of his niece's "royal progresses." The chief cause of offence was that the Princess was not
allowed by the Duchess of Kent to make her public appearances under his own auspices, as he
not unnaturally desired. He also began to suspect that the Princess was deliberately kept away
from Court; a painful controversy arose, and the Duchess became gradually estranged from her
brother-in-law, in spite of the affectionate attempts of Queen Adelaide to smooth matters over.
His resentment culminated in a painful scene, in 1836, when the King, at a State banquet at
Windsor, made a speech of a preposterous character; speaking of the Duchess, who sat next him,
as "that person," hinting that she was surrounded with evil advisers, and adding that he should
insist on the Princess being more at Court. The Princess burst into tears; the Duchess sate
in silence: when the banquet was over, the Duchess ordered her carriage, and was with difficulty
prevailed upon to remain at Windsor for the night. The King went so far in May 1837 as to offer
the Princess an independent income, and the acceptance of this by the Princess caused the Duchess
considerable vexation; but the project dropped. The King died in the following month, soon
after the Princess had attained her legal majority; he had always hoped that the Duchess would
not be Regent, and his wish was thus fulfilled.

It is no exaggeration to say that the accession of the Princess Victoria reinstated the English
monarchy in the affections of the people. George IV. had made the Throne unpopular; William
IV. had restored its popularity, but not its dignity. Both of these kings were men of decided
ability, but of unbalanced temperament. In politics both kings had followed a somewhat similar
course. George IV. had begun life as a strong Whig, and had been a close friend of Fox. Later
in life his political position resolved itself into a strong dislike of Roman Catholic Relief.
William IV. had begun his reign favourably inclined to Parliamentary Reform; but though gratified
by the personal popularity which his attitude brought him in the country, he became alarmed
at the national temper displayed. It illustrates the tension of the King's mind on the subject
that, when he was told that if the Reform Bill did not pass it would bring about a rebellion,
he replied that if it did bring about a rebellion he did not care: he should defend London
and raise the Royal Standard at Weedon (where there was a military depôt); and that the Duchess
of Kent and the Princess Victoria might come in if they could.

[Pageheading: CHARACTER AND TEMPERAMENT]

[Pageheading: SYMPATHY WITH MIDDLE CLASSES]

The reign of William IV. had witnessed the zenith of Whig efficiency. It had seen the establishment
of Parliamentary and Municipal Reform, the Abolition of Slavery, the new Poor Law, and other
important measures. But, towards the end of the reign, the Whig party began steadily to lose
ground, and the Tories to consolidate themselves. Lord Melbourne had succeeded Lord Grey at
the head of the Whigs, and the difference of administration was becoming every month more and
more apparent. The King indeed went so far as abruptly to dismiss his Ministers, but Parliament
was too strong for him. Lord Melbourne's principles were fully as liberal as Lord Grey's, but
he lacked practical initiative, with the result that the Whigs gradually forfeited popular
estimation and became discredited. The new reign, however, brought them a decided increase
of strength. The Princess had been brought up with strong Whig leanings, and, as is clear from
her letters, with an equally strong mistrust of Tory principles and politicians.

A word may here be given to the Princess's own character and temperament. She was high-spirited
and wilful, but devotedly affectionate, and almost typically feminine. She had a strong sense
of duty and dignity, and strong personal prejudices. Confident, in a sense, as she was, she
had the feminine instinct strongly developed of dependence upon some manly adviser. She was
full of high spirits, and enjoyed excitement and life to the full. She liked the stir of London,
was fond of dancing, of concerts, plays, and operas, and devoted to open-air exercise. Another
important trait in her character must be noted. She had strong monarchical views and dynastic
sympathies, but she had no aristocratic preferences; at the same time she had no democratic
principles, but believed firmly in the due subordination of classes. The result of the parliamentary
and municipal reforms of William IV.'s reign had been to give the middle classes a share in
the government of the country, and it was supremely fortunate that the Queen, by a providential
gift of temperament, thoroughly understood the middle-class point of view. The two qualities
that are most characteristic of British middle-class life are common sense and family affection;
and on these particular virtues the Queen's character was based; so that by a happy intuition
she was able to interpret and express the spirit and temper of that class which, throughout
her reign, was destined to hold the balance of political power in its hands. Behind lay a deep
sense of religion, the religion which centres in the belief in the Fatherhood of God, and is
impatient of dogmatic distinctions and subtleties.

CHAPTER III

QUEEN VICTORIA'S RELATIONS AND FRIENDS

It may be held to have been one of the chief blessings of Queen Victoria's girlhood that she
was brought closely under the influence of an enlightened and large-minded Prince, Leopold,
her maternal uncle, afterwards King of the Belgians. He was born in 1790, being the youngest
son of Francis, Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, and his youth was spent in the Russian military
service. He had shown talent and courage in the field, and had commanded a battalion at Lützen
and Leipsic. He had married, in 1816, the Princess Charlotte, only child of George IV. For
many years his home was at Claremont, where the Princess Charlotte had died; there the Princess
Victoria spent many happy holidays, and grew to regard her uncle with the most devoted affection,
almost, indeed, in the light of a father. It is said that Prince Leopold had hoped to be named
Regent, if a Regency should be necessary.[1] He was offered, and accepted, the throne of Greece
in 1830, but shrank from the difficulties of the position, and withdrew his acceptance upon
the plea that Lord Aberdeen, who was then Foreign Secretary, was not prepared to make such
financial arrangements as he considered satisfactory.[2]

    [Footnote 1: A practical proof of his interest in his niece
    may be found in the fact that for years he contributed
    between three and four thousand a year to the expenses of her
    education, and for necessary holidays by the sea, at a time
    when the Duchess of Kent's Parliamentary Grant was unequal to
    the increasing expenses of her household.]

    [Footnote 2: Greece after having obtained autonomy was in a
    practically bankrupt condition, and the Powers had guaranteed
    the financial credit of the country until it was able to
    develop its own resources.]

It is interesting to observe from the correspondence that King Leopold seems for many years
to have continued to regret his decision; it was not that he did not devote himself, heart
and soul, to the country of his adoption, but there seems to have been a romantic element in
his composition, which did not find its full satisfaction in presiding over the destinies of
a peaceful commercial nation.

[Pageheading: THE KING OF THE BELGIANS]

In 1831, when Louis Philippe, under pressure from Lord Palmerston, declined the throne of Belgium
for his son the Duc de Nemours, Prince Leopold received and accepted an offer of the Crown.
A Dutch invasion followed, and the new King showed great courage and gallantry in an engagement
near Louvain, in which his army was hopelessly outnumbered. But, though a sensitive man, the
King's high courage and hopefulness never deserted him. He ruled his country with diligence,
ability, and wisdom, and devoted himself to encouraging manufactures and commerce. The result
of his firm and liberal rule was manifested in 1848, when, on his offering to resign the Crown
if it was thought to be for the best interests of the country, he was entreated, with universal
acclamation, to retain the sovereignty. Belgium passed through the troubled years of revolution
in comparative tranquillity. King Leopold was a model ruler; his deportment was grave and serious;
he was conspicuous for honesty and integrity; he was laborious and upright, and at the same
time conciliatory and tactful.

He kept up a close correspondence with Queen Victoria, and paid her several visits in England,
where he was on intimate terms with many leading Englishmen. It would be difficult to over-estimate
the importance of his close relations with the Queen; by example and precept he inspired her
with a high sense of duty, and from the first instilled into her mind the necessity of acquainting
herself closely with the details of political administration. His wisdom, good sense, and tenderness,
as well as the close tie of blood that existed between him and the Queen, placed him in a unique
position with regard to her, and it is plain that he was fully aware of the high responsibility
thus imposed upon him, which he accepted with a noble generosity. It is true that there were
occasions when, as the correspondence reveals, the Queen was disposed to think that King Leopold
endeavoured to exercise too minute a control over her in matters of detail, and even to attempt
to modify the foreign policy of England rather for the benefit of Belgium than in the best
interests of Great Britain; but the Queen was equal to these emergencies; she expressed her
dissent from the King's suggestions in considerate and affectionate terms, with her gratitude
for his advice, but made no pretence of following it.

For her aunt, Queen Adelaide, the Princess Victoria had always felt a strong affection; and
though it can hardly be said that this gentle and benevolent lady exercised any great influence
over her more vigorous and impetuous niece, yet the letters will testify to the closeness of
the tie which united them.

[Pageheading: QUEEN ADELAIDE]

Queen Adelaide was the eldest child of George, Duke of Saxe-Meiningen; her mother was a princess
of Hohenlohe-Langenburg.

At the age of twenty-six she was married to the Duke of Clarence, then in his fifty-third year,
without any preliminary courtship. They lived for a year in Hanover, and then principally at
Bushey Park. Two daughters were born to them, the elder of whom lived only a few hours; the
younger, Princess Elizabeth, died in the first year of her age. Their married life was a happy
one, in spite of the disparity of age. Queen Adelaide was a woman of a deeply affectionate
disposition, sensible, sympathetic, and religious. She had a very definite ideal of the duties
of a wife and a Queen; she made it her pleasure to meet and anticipate, as far as possible,
her husband's wishes; and her husband, hasty and choleric though he was, repaid her with tender
affection. To such an extent did the Queen merge her views in those of her husband, that she
passed at one time through a period of general unpopularity. It was believed that she was adverse
to Reform, and used her influence against it. She was mobbed in the streets at the time when
the Reform agitation was at its height; and it is said that when the Melbourne Ministry of
1834 was dismissed, London was (owing to an unjustifiable communication of Lord Brougham to
the Times) placarded with posters bearing the words, "The Queen has done it all!"

It is a pathetic instance of the irony of fate that Queen Adelaide should have thus been supposed
to desire to take an active part in politics. It is obvious, from her letters, that she had
practically no political views at all, except a gentle distrust of all proposed changes, social
or political. Her one idea of her position as Queen was to agree with any expression of opinion
that fell from the King. She was fond of music, and took a deep interest in her religious duties
and in all that concerned the welfare of the Protestant communion. But apart from this, her
interests were entirely domestic and personal, and her letters reveal her character in the
most amiable light. Her devotion to the King, and the tender and respectful diffidence with
which she welcomed her niece to the Throne, show a very sweet nature.

The rest of her life, after King William's death, was passed to a great extent under invalid
conditions, though she was only forty-four at the time of her niece's accession. She travelled
a good deal in search of health, and lived a quiet life in England, surrounded by a small but
devoted circle of friends and relations. Her personal popularity with the nation became very
great, not only for the simple kindliness of her life, but for her splendid munificence; it
is said that her public subscriptions often exceeded £20,000 a year. She died in December 1849.
Queen Victoria was very much attached to her gentle, simple-minded, and tender-hearted aunt,
and treated her with the utmost consideration and an almost daughterly affection. In 1824 she
became governess to the Princess Victoria. In 1827 George IV. conferred upon her the rank of
a Hanoverian Baroness. When the Duchess of Northumberland, in 1830, was appointed the Princess's
official governess, she remained as lady in attendance. The Princess was devoted to her, but
"greatly in awe of her." She remained at Court after the accession till 1842, without holding
an official position, and then returned to Germany, where she died in 1870.

[Pageheading: BARON STOCKMAR]

Baron Stockmar was another of the interesting personalities who came into very close contact
with the Queen in her early years. He was forty-nine at the time of the accession, but he had
come to England more than twenty years before as private physician to Prince Leopold. He endeared
himself to the Princess Charlotte, who died holding his hand. He afterwards became Prince Leopold's
private secretary, and took a prominent part as the Prince's representative in the successive
negotiations with regard to his candidature for the thrones of Greece and Belgium. Upon the
accession of Queen Victoria, Stockmar joined the Court in a private capacity, and for fifteen
months he held an unofficial position as her chief adviser. There was a general feeling of
dislike in the minds of the English public to the German influences that were supposed to be
brought to bear on the Queen; and Lord Melbourne found it necessary to make a public and categorical
denial of the statement that Stockmar was acting as the Queen's private secretary. But the
statement, if not technically, was virtually true. Stockmar lived at Court, had interviews
with the Queen and her Ministers, and though he industriously endeavoured to efface himself,
yet there is no doubt that he was consulted on most important questions. In 1838, he had been
entrusted by King Leopold, with the Queen's knowledge and consent, with a mission of great
delicacy: he was asked to accompany Prince Albert on a tour in Italy, with the idea of completing
his education, and in order to satisfy himself that the Prince would be a worthy Consort for
the Queen. This task he discharged admirably, and became the most confidential and trusted
of all the Prince's friends. There are many letters of Stockmar's to the Prince extant, which
prove that Stockmar never shrank from speaking the plainest truth to the Prince on matters
of duty and faults of temperament, without any courtier-like attempt to blink criticism that
might have been unpalatable. The Prince had the generosity and humility to value this trait
of Stockmar's very highly, to such an extent that Stockmar's influence possessed if anything
too great a preponderance. Stockmar had jealously nursed two profound political ideals--the
unity of Germany under Prussia, and the establishment of close relations between Germany and
England. He induced Prince Albert, heavily burdened as he was with work, to devote almost too
much time and thought to the former of these aims. Stockmar was a profound student of social
and constitutional questions. He had made a close study of English political institutions;
but though he grasped the constitutional theory of the English Throne, and saw that the first
necessity for the Sovereign was to hold a position independent of party, he never clearly understood
that the Monarch should keep as far as possible clear of political details. Stockmar's view
of the position was that the Sovereign should be practically Premier as well; and much of the
jealousy that was felt, on various occasions, at the position which Prince Albert assumed with
regard to political situations, is referable to Stockmar's influence.

He was a very able man, with immense political knowledge, and without personal ambition; Lord
Palmerston, who was no friend to Stockmar's theory of government, admitted that he was the
most disinterested man he had ever encountered. Stockmar's ambition was to achieve his own
political ideals, and to modify the course of events in what he conceived to be beneficial
directions; he was entirely indifferent to the trappings of power, and this very disinterestedness
made his influence more supreme.

He suffered all his life from feeble health and a hypochondriacal tendency, and was genuinely
fond of retirement and quiet life. He certainly deserved the devoted confidence reposed in
him by Prince Albert and the Queen; it may perhaps be questioned whether his own doctrinaire
bias did not make itself too strongly felt, in the minuteness with which Prince Albert dealt
with English politics; but the net result of his influence was that the danger, which lies
in wait for strictly constitutional Sovereigns, was averted--the danger, that is, of leaving
the administration of State affairs in the hands of specialists, and depriving it of the wise
control and independent criticism which only the Crown can adequately supply.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER IV

Queen Victoria, from the very first, took great pleasure in filing the correspondence addressed
to her. There are many volumes of letters received from her various relations. We have thought
it best to give some of Queen Adelaide's early letters; they indicate in a remarkable manner
the growing estrangement between King William IV. and the Duchess of Kent. In the earlier letters
the King enquires very affectionately after the Duchess, and constant mention is made of presents
sent to her; but the references made to her become less frequent and colder, till at last the
King contents himself with sending messages only to the Princess. But the letters of Queen
Adelaide are always written in a strain of touching devotion and affection, and reveal her
as a woman of large heart and great simplicity of character.

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD]

But the most interesting series of letters are the Queen's own correspondence with King Leopold,
of which several hundred are preserved. The letters, too, received by her from the King of
the Belgians are preserved in their entirety.

The letters which the Queen wrote to King Leopold are of extraordinary interest; she kept up
an unbroken correspondence with him, and spoke freely of all that was in her mind. Two points
are worthy of special mention: though she was early convinced of the necessity of holding an
independent constitutional position in politics she mentions the Tory party with undisguised
mistrust; and further, the name of King William hardly ever occurs until his last illness.

King Leopold's early letters reveal his character in the most amiable light. He familiarised
the Queen with all the complicated details of foreign politics; he gave her the most sensible
and wise advice; he warned and encouraged her; he answered her enquiries with the minutest
care: and the warm affection to which he gave frequent expression is a very sacred and beautiful
thing to contemplate.

We have selected several of the Princess Victoria's letters to the King of the Belgians before
her accession, because they throw a remarkable light upon her temperament. In the first place,
they reveal the deep affectionateness of her character, and, what is still more remarkable
at her age, her frankness and outspokenness in expressing her feelings.

In the second place, they show with what interest and eagerness the Princess was following
the course of foreign politics. Her view was naturally a personal one, but it may be said that
there can have been very few, if any, girls in England, of the Princess's age, who were taking
any interest at all in Continental affairs. It is true that King Leopold had early impressed
upon the Princess that it was a duty to become acquainted with the course of current events;
but the letters show that the interest she felt was congenial and innate, and did not spring
from a sense of duty. The allusions to home politics are not so frequent, but still show that
here also her attention was alert.

Thirdly, they reveal her abounding vitality, her love of life and amusement, her devotion to
music, and the simple unspoilt zest with which she threw herself into all that surrounded her.

There is a special interest which attaches to the correspondence between Queen Victoria and
King Leopold after the Accession. The letters reveal, as no other documents could do, the monarchical
point of view. However intimate may be the relations between a Sovereign and a subject, there
is bound to appear a certain discretion, and even condescension, on the one hand, and on the
other a due degree of deference. But here we have the remarkable spectacle of two monarchs,
both of eminent sagacity, and both, so to speak, frankly interested in the task of constitutional
government, corresponding freely on all the difficulties and problems inseparable from their
momentous task, and with an immense sense of their weighty responsibilities. It is impossible
to exaggerate the deep and abiding interest of such a correspondence; and the seriousness,
the devotion, the public spirit that are displayed, without affectation or calculated impressiveness,
make the whole series of letters singularly memorable.

The King of the Belgians had married Princess Louise of Orleans, daughter of Louis Philippe,
in 1832. She was only seven years older than the Princess Victoria, who grew to regard her
with the tenderest affection.

The letters from Queen Louise are very numerous. A few are in French, but they are mostly written
in brisk, lively English, not always very correct, either in construction or in spelling. They
are full of small family details--the movements of various relations, the improvement in her
brothers' looks, Court festivities, the childish ailments of her little boys, the journeys
and expeditions, recollections of Windsor, their visitors, elaborate descriptions of dresses--interesting
to read, but difficult to select from. They are full of heart-felt expressions of the sincerest
affection for "your dear Majesty," a quaint phrase that often occurs.

[Pageheading: PRINCE ALBERT]

After their marriage in 1840, Prince Albert naturally became the Queen's confidential Secretary.

A close study of the Queen's correspondence reveals the character of the Prince in a way which
nothing else could effect. Traces of his untiring labour, his conscientious vigilance, his
singular devotedness, appear on every page. There are innumerable memoranda in his own hand;
the papers are throughout arranged and annotated by him; nothing seems to have escaped him,
nothing to have dismayed him. As an instance of the minute laboriousness which characterised
the Royal household, it may be mentioned that there are many copies of important letters, forwarded
to the Prince for his perusal, the originals of which had to be returned, written not only
by the Prince himself, but by the Queen under his direction. But besides keeping a vigilant
eye upon politics, the Prince took the lead in all social and educational movements of the
time, as well as devoting a close and continuous attention to the affairs of Europe in general,
and Germany in particular. It is obvious from the papers that the Prince can hardly ever have
taken a holiday; many hours of every day must have been devoted by him to work; yet he was
at the same time a tender husband and father, always ready with advice and sympathy, and devoted
to quiet domestic life.

After the Queen's marriage the correspondence becomes far more voluminous. It is difficult
to exaggerate the amount of conscientious labour bestowed by the Queen and the Prince Consort
on all matters which concerned the welfare of the nation. The number of documents which passed
through their hands, and which were carefully studied by them, was prodigious.

The drafts of the Queen's replies to letters are in many cases in the handwriting of the Prince
Consort, but dated by herself, and often containing interlinear corrections and additions of
her own. Whether the Queen indicated the lines of the replies, whether she dictated the substance
of them, or whether they contain the result of a discussion on the particular matter, cannot
be precisely ascertained. But they contain so many phrases and turns of expression which are
characteristic of her outspoken temperament, that it is clear that she not only followed every
detail, but that the substance of the communication bore in most cases the impress of her mind.
A considerable number of the drafts again are in her own hand, with interlinear corrections
and additions by the Prince; and these so strongly resemble in style the drafts in the handwriting
of the Prince, that it is clear that the Queen did not merely accept suggestions, but that
she had a strong opinion of her own on important matters, and that this opinion was duly expressed.

One fact must, however, be borne in mind. It happens in many cases that a correspondence on
some particular point seems to be about to lead up to a definite conclusion, but that the salient
and decisive document is absent. In these cases it is clear that the matter was settled at
a personal interview; in many cases the Prince prepared a memorandum of an important interview;
but there are a considerable number of such correspondences, where no record is preserved of
the eventual solution, and this incompleteness is regrettable, but, by the nature of the case,
inevitable.

[Pageheading: LEADING STATESMEN IN 1837]

The young Queen, on coming to the Throne, had little technical knowledge of the details of
diplomacy, but she already had a real and intelligent acquaintance with foreign affairs, though
it was rather personal than political, and, as we have seen, was more inspired by her interest
in the fortunes and position of her numerous maternal relations than by the political views
of her paternal relatives. Among the English statesmen of the day there were few who were qualified
to help and instruct her. The two men who for over twenty years alternately guided the foreign
policy of the country were Lord Aberdeen and Lord Palmerston. They represented two opposed
schools. Lord Aberdeen, a Peelite, was naturally and by tradition inclined to desire harmonious
relations with all foreign Powers, and to abstain, as far as was consistent with maintaining
British interests, from any sort of intervention in European affairs; Palmerston was a disciple
of Canning, who had definitely broken with the principles of the Congress of Vienna, and openly
avowed his approval of a policy of intervention, to any extent short of actual war, in the
interests of liberty and good government. The only other man who had any title to speak with
authority on foreign affairs was the Duke of Wellington, who had held the seals as Foreign
Secretary for a few months in 1834 and 1835. He had, however, lost much of the reputation for
political sagacity which he had held at the time when he was the arbiter of Europe and virtual
ruler of France. Moreover, being, as he was, a much occupied man, with varied business to transact,
and at the mercy of his almost excessive conscientiousness, he held himself to a considerable
extent aloof from current politics, though he never lost his absorbing interest in Continental
affairs.

CHAPTER IV

1821-1835

[The first letter ever received by Queen Victoria appears to be the following little note,
written by the Duchess of Clarence, afterwards Queen Adelaide, in May 1821, when the Princess
entered upon her third year. It is pathetic to recollect that the Duchess's surviving child,
Princess Elizabeth, had died, aged three months, in March of the same year.]

MY DEAR LITTLE HEART,--I hope you are well and don't forget Aunt Adelaide, who loves you so fondly.

Loulou and Wilhelm[1] desire their love to you, and Uncle William also.

God bless and preserve you is the constant prayer of your most truly affectionate Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

    [Footnote 1: Princess Louise and Prince William of
    Saxe-Weimar, children of Duchess Ida of Saxe-Weimar (sister
    of the Duchess of Clarence). They were the eldest brother and
    sister of Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar.]

The Duchess of Clarence to the Princess Victoria.

24th May 1822.

Uncle William and Aunt Adelaide send their love to dear little Victoria with their best wishes
on her birthday, and hope that she will now become a very good Girl, being now three years
old. Uncle William and Aunt Adelaide also beg little Victoria to give dear Mamma and to dear
Sissi[2] a kiss in their name, and to Aunt Augusta,[3] Aunt Mary[4] and Aunt Sophia[5] too,
and also to the big Doll. Uncle William and Aunt Adelaide are very sorry to be absent on that
day and not to see their dear, dear little Victoria, as they are sure she will be very good
and obedient to dear Mamma on that day, and on many, many others. They also hope that dear
little Victoria will not forget them and know them again when Uncle and Aunt return.

To dear little Xandrina Victoria.

    [Footnote 2: Princess Feodore, the Queen's half-sister.]

    [Footnote 3: Augusta, daughter of Frederick, Landgrave of
    Hesse-Cassel, wife of the Duke of Cambridge.]

    [Footnote 4: Princess Mary, a daughter of George III., married
    to her cousin the Duke of Gloucester.]

    [Footnote 5: Princess Sophia, daughter of George III.]

[Pageheading: EARLY LETTERS]

[The following is the earliest letter preserved of the long series written by the Queen to
King (then Prince) Leopold. The Princess was then nine years old.]

KENSINGTON PALACE, 25th November 1823.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I wish you many happy returns of your birthday; I very often think of you,
and I hope to see you soon again, for I am very fond of you. I see my Aunt Sophia[6] often,
who looks very well, and is very well. I use every day your pretty soup-basin. Is it very warm
in Italy? It is so mild here, that I go out every day. Mama is tolerable well and am quite
well. Your affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA.

P.S.--I am very angry with you, Uncle, for you have never written to me once since you went,
and that is a long while.

    [Footnote 6: Princess Sophia, daughter of George III.]

Prince Leopold[7] to the Princess Victoria.

PARIS, 20th April 1829.

MY DEAREST LOVE,--Though in a few days I hope to have the happiness of seeing you, still I
wish to recall myself even before that time to your recollection, and to tell you how delighted
I shall be to embrace my dearest little child. I have travelled far over the world and shall
be able to give you some curious information about various matters.

Stockmar, who was very ill, and whom I despaired of seeing here, did arrive before yesterday,[8]
and you may guess what pleasure it gave me. Now I will conclude; au revoir, and let me find
you grown, blooming, and kind to your old and faithful Uncle,

LEOPOLD.

    [Footnote 7: Afterwards King of the Belgians.]

    [Footnote 8: I.e. avant hier.]

[Pageheading: BIRTHDAY LETTERS]

The Princess Hohenlohe[9] to the Princess Victoria.

[May 1829.]

If I had wings and could fly like a bird, I should fly in at your window like the little robin
to-day, and wish you many very happy returns of the 24th, and tell you how I love you, dearest
sister, and how often I think of you and long to see you. I think if I were once with you again
I could not leave you so soon. I should wish to stay with you, and what would poor Ernest[9]
say if I were to leave him so long? He would perhaps try to fly after me, but I fear he would
not get far; he is rather tall and heavy for flying. So you see I have nothing left to do but
to write to you, and wish you in this way all possible happiness and joy for this and many,
many years to come. I hope you will spend a very merry birthday. How I wish to be with you,
dearest Victoire, on that day!

I have not thanked you, I believe, for a very dear letter you have written to me, which gave
me the greatest pleasure. Your descriptions of the plays you had seen amused me very much.
I wish I had seen your performance too. Your most affectionate Sister,

FEODORE.

    [Footnote 9: The Princess Feodore of Leiningen, the Queen's
    half-sister, had married, in January 1828, the Prince (Ernest)
    of Hohenlohe-Langenburg.]

The Duchess of Clarence to the Princess Victoria.

BUSHEY PARK, 14th August 1829.

A thousand thanks to you, dear Victoria, for your very nice and well-written letter full of
good wishes, which I had the pleasure to receive yesterday; and many thanks more for the pretty
gifts your dear Mamma has sent me in your name. I wore them last night for your sake, dearest
child, and thought of you very often.

It gives me great satisfaction to hear that you are enjoying the sea air and like the place
which you now occupy. I wish I could pay your Mamma a visit there and see you again, my dear
little niece, for I long to have that pleasure, and must resign myself at being deprived of
it some time longer. Your Uncle desires to be most kindly remembered to you, and hopes to receive
soon also a letter from you, of whom he is as fond as I am. We speak of you very often, and
trust that you will always consider us to be amongst your best friends....

God bless you, my dear Victoria, is always the prayer of your most truly affectionate Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 22nd May 1832.

MY DEAREST LOVE,--Let me offer you my sincerest and best wishes on the return of the anniversary
of your birthday. May heaven protect and prosper you, and shower all its best blessings on you.

Time flies: it is now thirteen years that you came into the world of trouble; I therefore can
hardly venture to call you any longer a little Princess.

This will make you feel, my dear Love, that you must give your attention more and more to graver
matters. By the dispensation of Providence you are destined to fill a most eminent station;
to fill it well must now become your study. A good heart and a trusty and honourable character
are amongst the most indispensable qualifications for that position.

You will always find in your Uncle that faithful friend which he has proved to you from your
earliest infancy, and whenever you feel yourself in want of support or advice, call on him
with perfect confidence.

If circumstances permitted my leaving Ostend early to-morrow morning, I should be able to place
myself my birthday present into your fair hair; as this happiness has not fallen to my lot,
your excellent mother has promised to act as my representative.

You will probably have little time to spare. I therefore conclude with the assurance of the
sincere attachment and affection with which I shall ever be, my dearest Love, your faithful
and devoted Friend and Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN OF THE BELGIANS]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN,[10] 31st August 1832.

MY DEAREST LOVE,--You told me you wished to have a description of your new Aunt.[11] I therefore
shall both mentally and physically describe her to you.

She is extremely gentle and amiable, her actions are always guided by principles. She is at
all times ready and disposed to sacrifice her comfort and inclinations to see others happy.
She values goodness, merit, and virtue much more than beauty, riches, and amusements. With
all this she is highly informed and very clever; she speaks and writes English, German and
Italian; she speaks English very well indeed. In short, my dear Love, you see that I may well
recommend her as an example for all young ladies, being Princesses or not.

Now to her appearance. She is about Feodore's height, her hair very fair, light blue eyes,
of a very gentle, intelligent and kind expression. A Bourbon nose and small mouth. The figure
is much like Feodore's but rather less stout. She rides very well, which she proved to my great
alarm the other day, by keeping her seat though a horse of mine ran away with her full speed
for at least half a mile. What she does particularly well is dancing. Music unfortunately she
is not very fond of, though she plays on the harp; I believe there is some idleness in the
case. There exists already great confidence and affection between us; she is desirous of doing
everything that can contribute to my happiness, and I study whatever can make her happy and
contented.

You will see by these descriptions that though my good little wife is not the tallest Queen,
she is a very great prize which I highly value and cherish....

Now it is time I should finish my letter. Say everything that is kind to good Lehzen, and believe
me ever, my dearest Love, your faithful Friend and Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 10: The Royal Palace, four miles from Brussels,
    which Napoleon owned for many years. A monument to King
    Leopold now stands there.]

    [Footnote 11: Louise Marie, Princess of Orleans, daughter of
    King Louis Philippe of France, was married to King Leopold on
    9th August 1832.]

[Pageheading: A BIRTHDAY LETTER]

[Pageheading: VALUABLE ADVICE]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 21st May 1833.

MY DEAREST LOVE,--To make quite sure of my birthday congratulations reaching you on that day,
I send them by to-day's messenger, and confide them to the care of your illustrious mother.

My sincere good wishes for many happy returns of that day which gave you, dear little soul,
to us, will be accompanied by some few reflections, which the serious aspect of our times calls
forth. My dearest Love, you are now fourteen years old, a period when the delightful pastimes
of childhood must be mixed with thoughts appertaining already to a matured part of your life.
I know that you have been very studious, but now comes the time when the judgment must form
itself, when the character requires attention; in short when the young tree takes the shape
which it retains afterwards through life.

To attain this object it is indispensable to give some little time to reflection. The life
in a great town is little calculated for such purposes; however, with some firmness of purpose
it can be done.

Self-examination is the most important part of the business, and a very useful mode of proceeding
is, for instance, every evening to recapitulate the events of the day, and the motives which
made one act oneself, as well as to try to guess what might have been the motives of others.
Amiable dispositions like yours will easily perceive if your own motives were good. Persons
in high situations must particularly guard themselves against selfishness and vanity. An individual
in a high and important situation will easily see a great many persons eager to please the
first, and to flatter and encourage the last. Selfishness, however, makes the individual itself
miserable, and is the cause of constant disappointment, besides being the surest means of being
disliked by everybody.

Vanity, on the other hand, is generally artfully used by ambitious and interested people to
make one a tool for purposes of their own, but too often in opposition with one's own happiness
and destruction of it.

To learn to know oneself, to judge oneself with truth and impartiality, must be the great objects
of one's exertion; they are only attainable by constant and cool self-examination.

The position of what is generally called great people has of late become extremely difficult.
They are more attacked and calumniated, and judged with less indulgence than private individuals.
What they have lost in this way, they have not by any means regained in any other. Ever since
the revolution of 1790 they are much less secure than they used to be, and the transition from
sovereign power to absolute want has been as frequent as sudden.

It becomes, therefore, necessary that the character should be so formed as not to be intoxicated
by greatness and success, nor cast down by misfortune. To be able to do so, one must be able
to appreciate things according to their real value, and particularly avoid giving to trifles
an undue importance.

Nothing is so great and clear a proof of unfitness for greater and nobler actions, than a mind
which is seriously occupied with trifles.

Trifling matters may be objects of amusement and relaxation to a clever person, but only a
weak mind and a mean spirit consider trifles as important. The good sense must show itself
by distinguishing what is and what is not important.

My sermon is now long enough, my dear child. I strongly recommend it, however, to your reflection
and consideration.

My gift consists in a set of views of the former Kingdom of the Netherlands, out of which you
will be able to discover all those of the present Belgium.

Let me soon hear from you; and may God bless and preserve you. Ever, my dear Love, your affectionate
Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: VISIT TO HEVER CASTLE]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS, 14th September 1834.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Allow me to write you a few words, to express how thankful I am for the
very kind letter you wrote me. It made me, though, very sad to think that all our hopes of
seeing you, which we cherished so long, this year, were over. I had so hoped and wished to
have seen you again, my beloved Uncle, and to have made dearest Aunt Louisa's acquaintance.
I am delighted to hear that dear Aunt has benefited from the sea air and bathing. We had a
very pretty party to Hever Castle yesterday, which perhaps you remember, where Anne Boleyn
used to live, before she lost her head. We drove there, and rode home. It was a most beautiful
day. We have very good accounts from dear Feodore, who will, by this time, be at Langenburg.

Believe me always, my dearest Uncle, your very affectionate and dutiful Niece,

VICTORIA.

[Pageheading: HISTORICAL READING]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 18th October 1834.

MY DEAREST LOVE,--I am happy to learn that Tunbridge Wells has done you good. Health is the
first and most important gift of Providence; without it we are poor, miserable creatures, though
the whole earth were our property; therefore I trust that you will take great care of your
own. I feel convinced that air and exercise are most useful for you. In your leisure moments
I hope that you study a little; history is what I think the most important study for you. It
will be difficult for you to learn human-kind's ways and manners otherwise than from that important
source of knowledge. Your position will more or less render practical knowledge extremely difficult
for you, till you get old, and still if you do not prepare yourself for your position, you
may become the victim of wicked and designing people, particularly at a period when party spirit
runs so high. Our times resemble most those of the Protestant reformation; then people were
moved by religious opinions, as they now undoubtedly are by political passions. Unfortunately
history is rarely written by those who really were the chief movers of events, nor free from
a party colouring; this is particularly the case in the works about English history. In that
respect France is much richer, because there we have authenticated memoirs of some of the most
important men, and of others who really saw what passed and wrote it down at the time. Political
feelings, besides, rarely created permanent parties like those in England, with the exception,
perhaps, of the great distinctions of Catholics and Protestants. What I most should recommend
is the period before the accession of Henry IV. of France to the throne, then the events after
his death till the end of the minority of Louis XIV.; after that period, though interesting,
matters have a character which is more personal, and therefore less applicable to the present
times. Still even that period may be studied with some profit to get knowledge of mankind.
Intrigues and favouritism were the chief features of that period, and Madame de Maintenon's
immense influence was very nearly the cause of the destruction of France. What I very particularly
recommend to you is to study in the Memoirs of the great and good Sully[12] the last years
of the reign of Henry IV. of France, and the events which followed his assassination. If you
have not got the work, I will forward it to you from hence, or give you the edition which I
must have at Claremont.

As my paper draws to a close, I shall finish also by giving you my best blessings, and remain
ever, my dearest Love, your faithfully attached Friend and Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 12: Maximilien, Duc de Sully, was Henry's Minister
    of Finance. A curious feature of the Memoirs is the fact that
    they are written in the second person: the historian recounts
    the hero's adventures to him.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCESS'S READING]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS, 22nd October 1834.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--You cannot conceive how happy you have made me, by your very kind letter,
which, instead of tiring, delights me beyond everything. I must likewise say how very grateful
I feel for the kind and excellent advice you gave me in it.

For the autographs I beg to return my best thanks. They are most valuable and interesting,
and will be great additions to my collections. As I have not got Sully's Memoirs, I shall be
delighted if you will be so good as to give them to me. Reading history is one of my greatest
delights, and perhaps, dear Uncle, you might like to know which books in that line I am now
reading. In my lessons with the Dean of Chester,[13] I am reading Russell's Modern Europe,[14]
which is very interesting, and Clarendon's History of the Rebellion. It is drily written, but
is full of instruction. I like reading different authors, of different opinions, by which means
I learn not to lean on one particular side. Besides my lessons, I read Jones'[15] account of
the wars in Spain, Portugal and the South of France, from the year 1808 till 1814. It is well
done, I think, and amuses me very much. In French, I am now in La Rivalité de la France et
de l'Espagne, par Gaillard,[16] which is very interesting. I have also begun Rollin.[17] I
am very fond of making tables of the Kings and Queens, as I go on, and I have lately finished
one of the English Sovereigns and their consorts, as, of course, the history of my own country
is one of my first duties. I should be fearful of tiring you with so long an account of myself,
were I not sure you take so great an interest in my welfare.

Pray give my most affectionate love to dearest Aunt Louisa, and please say to the Queen of
the French and the two Princesses how grateful I am for their kind remembrance of me.

Believe me always, my dearest Uncle, your very affectionate, very dutiful, and most attached Niece,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 13: The Rev. George Davys. See ante, p. 15.
    (Ch. II, Footnote 4)]

    [Footnote 14: This History of Modern Europe, in a series of
    letters from a nobleman to his son, 5 vols. (1779-1784),
    deals with the rise of modern kingdoms down to the Peace of
    Westphalia (1648).]

    [Footnote 15: Sir John Thomas Jones, Bart. (1783-1843), a
    Royal Engineer, who served in the Peninsular War.]

    [Footnote 16: Gabriel Henri Gaillard (1726-1806), Member of
    the French Academy.]

    [Footnote 17: The Histoire Ancienne, by Charles Rollin
    (1661-1741), Rector of the University of Paris.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

ST. LEONARDS, 19th November 1834.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--It is impossible for me to express how happy you have made me by writing
so soon again to me, and how pleased I am to see by your very kind letter that you intend to
write to me often. I am much obliged to you, dear Uncle, for the extract about Queen Anne,
but must beg you, as you have sent me to show what a Queen ought not to be, that you will send
me what a Queen ought to be.[18]

Might I ask what is the very pretty seal with which the letter I got from you yesterday was
closed? It is so peculiar that I am anxious to know.

Believe me always, dear Uncle, your very affectionate, very dutiful, and very attached Niece,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 18: King Leopold had sent the Princess an extract
    from a French Memoir, containing a severe criticism of the
    political character of Queen Anne.]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 2nd December 1834.

MY DEAREST LOVE,--You have written a very clever, sharp little letter the other day, which
gave me great pleasure. Sure enough, when I show you what a Queen ought not to be, I also ought
to tell you what she should be, and this task I will very conscientiously take upon myself
on the very first occasion which may offer itself for a confidential communication. Now I must
conclude, to go to town. I must, however, say that I have given orders to send you Sully's
Memoirs. As they have not been written exclusively for young ladies, it will be well to have
Lehzen to read it with you, and to judge what ought to be left for some future time. And now
God bless you! Ever, my beloved child, your attached Friend and Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: A NEW YEAR GREETING]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

ST. LEONARDS, 28th December 1834.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I must again, with your permission, write you a few lines, to wish you a
very happy new year, not only for this year, but for many to come. I know not how to thank
you sufficiently for the invaluable and precious autographs which you were so very kind as
to send me. Some of them I received a few days ago, and the others to-day, accompanied by a
very kind letter from you, and a beautiful shawl, which will be most useful to me, particularly
as a favourite one of mine is growing very old. I wish you could come here, for many reasons,
but also to be an eye-witness of my extreme prudence in eating, which would astonish you. The
poor sea-gulls are, however, not so happy as you imagine, for they have great enemies in the
country-people here, who take pleasure in shooting them.

Believe me always, my dearest Uncle, your very affectionate and most grateful Niece,

VICTORIA.

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

KENSINGTON PALACE, 2nd February 1835.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I know not how to thank you sufficiently for the most valuable autographs
you were kind enough to send me. I am particularly delighted with that of Louis Quatorze, "le
grand Roi," and my great admiration.... You will not, I hope, think me very troublesome if
I venture to ask for two more autographs which I should very particularly like to have; they
are Mme. de Sévigné's[19] and Racine's; as I am reading the letters of the former, and the
tragedies of the latter, I should prize them highly. Believe me always, my dearest Uncle, your
most affectionate and dutiful Niece,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 19: Marie de Rabutin Chantal, Marquise de Sévigné,
    born 1626. At twenty-four she was left a widow, and devoted
    herself to her children's education. When her daughter married
    the Count de Grignan, she began that correspondence with her
    on which her reputation chiefly rests. She died in 1696, and
    the letters were first published in 1726.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCESS'S CONFIRMATION]

[Pageheading: HONESTY AND SINCERITY]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

CAMP OF BEVERLOO (in the North of the Province of Limburg), 3rd August 1835.

MY DEAR LOVE,--By your Mother's letter of the 31st ult^o., I learned of the serious and important
action in your young life[20] which has passed recently, and I cannot let it pass without saying
some words on the subject. I am perhaps rather strangely situated for a preaching--somewhat
in the style of those old camp preachers who held forth to many thousand people on some heath
in Scotland. I am also on an immense heath, surrounded by 16,000 men, mostly young and gay,
cooking, singing, working, and not very like the stern old Covenanters; however, I shall try.
First of all, let me congratulate you that it passed happily and well off. Secondly, let me
entreat you to look with a serious and reflective mind on the day which is past. Many are the
religions, many the shades of those religions, but it must be confessed the principles of the
Christian religion are the most perfect and the most beautiful that can be imagined.... There
is one virtue which is particularly Christian; this is the knowledge of our own heart in real
humility. Hypocrisy is a besetting sin of all times, but particularly of the present, and many
are the wolves in sheep's clothes. I am sorry to say, with all my affection for old England,
the very state of its Society and politics renders many in that country essentially humbugs
and deceivers; the appearance of the thing is generally more considered than the reality; provided
matters go off well, and opinion may be gained, the real good is matter of the most perfect
indifference. Defend yourself, my dear love, against this system; let your dear character always
be true and loyal; this does not exclude prudence--worldly concerns are now unfortunately so
organised that you must be cautious or you may injure yourself and others--but it does not
prevent the being sterling and true. Nothing in persons gives greater reliance, greater weight,
than when they are known to be true. From your earliest childhood I was anxious to see in you
this important virtue saved and developed, and Lehzen will still be able to recollect that.
If it is God's pleasure that you should once[21] fill the arduous situation to which you seem
destined, you will find the importance of what I now say to you. And when others may tremble
to have at last their real character found out, and to meet all the contempt which they may
deserve, your mind and heart will be still and happy, because it will know that it acts honestly,
that truth and goodness are the motives of its actions. I press you now against my heart; may
God bless you as I wish and hope it, and may you always feel some affection for your sincerely
devoted camp preacher and Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 20: The Princess was confirmed at the Chapel Royal,
    on 30th July 1835.]

    [Footnote 21: King Leopold not infrequently uses "once" like
    the Latin olim, as referring to any indefinite date in the
    future as well as in the past. "Some day" is what is intended
    here.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER V

THE year 1836 was not an eventful one at home; the Whig Ministry were too weak to carry measures
of first-rate importance, and could hardly have maintained themselves in power against the
formidable opposition of Sir Robert Peel without the support of O'Connell. Parliament was chiefly
occupied by the consideration of the Secret Societies in Ireland, Tithes, Municipal Corporations,
and such matters; the Marriage Act, and the Act for the Registration of Births have probably
been the most important measures of the year to the country. Troubles which were destined to
become more acute arose in Lower Canada and Jamaica, both taking the form of disputes between
the executive and the legislature.

On the continent of Europe, affairs were more disturbing. Several attempts were made on the
life of the King of the French, while an abortive insurrection with a view of establishing
a military empire was made by Louis Bonaparte at Strasburg. The Prince was allowed to leave
the country and go to the United States, but his accomplices were detained for trial. In Algiers
the French Government determined to prosecute operations against the Arab Chief Abd-el-Kader,
and they sent an expedition to Constantin.

Holland and Belgium were occupied with a dispute about their boundary line, the cession to
Belgium of Luxemburg being the chief point of difference. The difficulties that arose in passing
an important Municipal Act for Belgium caused King Leopold temporarily to regret he had not
accepted the throne of Greece.

Portugal was still convulsed by revolutionary agitation. Dom Pedro, the eldest son of King
John VI., had been proclaimed Emperor of Brazil in his father's lifetime, and had abdicated
the throne of Portugal in favour of his daughter Donna Maria, a child seven years old, while
Dom Miguel, his younger brother, who had acted in opposition to his father in Portugal, claimed
the throne for himself. Dom Pedro had agreed that his daughter should marry Miguel, who was
in 1827 appointed Regent. Miguel, had he acted wisely, might have maintained himself on the
throne, but Dom Pedro, who had been expelled from Brazil by a revolution, took active steps
to recover the Portuguese throne for his daughter, and equipped an expedition for that end
with English and French volunteers. In this way, Donna Maria, who had spent part of her exile
in England, and formed a friendship with the Princess Victoria, was through British instrumentality
placed on her throne, but still could only maintain herself with difficulty against Miguel.
She was a few weeks older than the Princess Victoria, and had recently lost her first husband,
the Duc de Leuchtenberg. She was married by proxy on the 1st of January 1836, and in person
on the 9th of April, to Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg.

There was also a disputed succession in Spain, where by the ancient law women might succeed
to the throne. Ferdinand VII., who had revoked the Pragmatic Sanction of 1711 and restored
the former system, died in 1833, leaving no son. His elder daughter Isabella, then three years
of age, was proclaimed Queen (her mother Christina being appointed Regent), and Isabella's
claims were recognised by England and France. The late King's brother, Don Carlos, taking his
stand upon the Salic Law as established by the Pragmatic Sanction, raised the standard of revolt
and allied himself with Dom Miguel, the young Queens Maria and Isabella mutually recognising
each other, and being supported by France and England against the "Holy Alliance" of Austria,
Russia, and Prussia. A seven years' civil war resulted, which did not end till, from sheer
exhaustion, the Carlists had to cease fighting the Christinos, as the loyal party was called.
The English Government in the previous year had sanctioned the enlistment of 10,000 men; who,
commanded by Colonel (afterwards Sir de Lacy) Evans, landed at San Sebastian in August to assist
the Christinos. A British auxiliary contingent was already with the Spanish army, while a naval
squadron under Lord John Hay was active on the coast. Mendizabal was Prime Minister at the
beginning of the year 1836, and was succeeded in May by Isturitz. Riots took place at Madrid,
and Isturitz fled to France; Calatrava succeeding him, assisted by Mendizabal. The Christino
cause did not much advance during the year.

CHAPTER V

1836

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

4th March 1836.

MY DEARLY BELOVED CHILD,--You wrote me again a long, dear, good letter, like all those which
I received from your kind hands. Time approaches now for the arrival of the cousins, and most
probably of your Uncle Ferdinand also. He has informed me of his arrival for the 7th or 8th;
notwithstanding this, I mean to leave everything settled as it has been arranged. They will
set off on the 7th, arrive at Paris on the 8th, and leave it again on the 12th.... Fernando[1]
has still a very bad cold; change of air is likely to cure that. The stay here has done Fernando
a great deal of good, and it cannot be denied that he is quite another person. It has given
me some trouble, but I have written down for him everything which he ought to know about the
organisation of a government in general, and what will be necessary in specie to carry on successfully
the Government in Portugal.... My inclinations, as you are aware, would have led me to the
East, but certainly the only thing which reconciles me with my not having done so is that it
has made me to remain near you, and will enable me to see you and to be useful to you.

    [Footnote 1: The Queen's first cousin, Prince Ferdinand (son
    of Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg, who was brother of the
    Duchess of Kent and the King of the Belgians), aged nineteen,
    who married the Queen of Portugal on 9th April. He was at
    this time visiting the King of the Belgians on his way to
    Portugal.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

KENSINGTON PALACE, 7th March 1836.

... You are very kind, my dearest, best Uncle, to say that "the only thing which reconciles
you" for not having gone to Greece is, that you are near me and can see me. Thank Heaven that
you did not go there! it would have been dreadful for me and for all your relations to be thus,
as it were, cut off from almost all intercourse! It is hard enough, that you are as far as
you are, when I recollect the happy time when I could see you, and be with you, every day!...

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

KENSINGTON PALACE, 29th March 1836.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... As concerning the "fatigues" we are said to have undergone, they were
none to me, and made me very happy; I only wish they could have lasted longer, for all, all
is over now, and our beloved Ferdinand[2] himself leaves our shores this very morning. We accompanied
them all on Sunday, where we took a final leave of our dear Ferdinand, and I cannot tell you
how sorry I was, and am, to see him go, for I love him dearly. He is so truly excellent, kind,
and good, and endears himself so much by his simplicity and good-heartedness! I may venture
to say, that no one has his prosperity and happiness more at heart than I have. I am extremely
sanguine about his success. He goes there full of courage, spirits, and goodwill, and being
naturally clever and observant, I doubt not that with good counsel, and prudence, he will do
very well. Your kind advice will be of the greatest and most important use to him, the more
so as he is so exceedingly fond of you.... Ferdinand leaves behind him here a most favourable
impression on all parties, for I have even heard from some great Tories themselves that there
was a great feeling for him in this country.

    [Footnote 2: See ante, p. 45. (Ch. V, Footnote 1).
    He had latterly been visiting the Duchess of Kent.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCES ERNEST AND ALBERT]

The Princess Hohenlohe to the Princess Victoria.

STUTTGART, 16th April 1836.

... You will like our two Coburg cousins also, I think; they are more manly than I think the
two others are, after the description. I am very fond of them both. Ernest is my favourite,
although Albert is much handsomer, and cleverer too, but Ernest is so honest and good-natured.
I shall be very curious to hear your opinion upon them....

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

KENSINGTON PALACE, 26th April 1836.

MY DEAREST, BEST UNCLE,-- ... You will, I am sure, have been delighted with M. de Neumann's[3]
account of the complete success of our dear Ferdinand. All has gone off better than even our
most sanguine hopes could have desired. He is much pleased with the good Queen, and she is
delighted with him, and M. de Neumann says that they are already quite happy together. This
is really a great blessing, but I fear that all the exterior affairs are not in quite so good
a state. I hope, however, that the good people will not make any more difficulties about Fernando's
being Commander-in-Chief, as I hear from all accounts it is necessary he should be so....

Uncle Ernest and my cousins will probably come here in the beginning of next month, I hear,
and will visit you on their return.

You ask me about Sully's Memoirs, and if I have finished them. I have not finished them, but
am reading them with great interest, and find there is a great deal in them which applies to
the present times, and a great deal of good advice and reasoning in them. As you say, very
truly, it is extremely necessary for me to follow the "events of the day," and to do so impartially.
I am always both grateful and happy when you give me any advice, and hope you will continue
to do so as long as I live.

I am glad to hear you approve my singing, and I cannot tell you how delightful it would be
for me, if you could join with us. À propos, dear Uncle, you did not answer what I said to
you in a former letter about your visiting us again. You know, dear Uncle, that this is a subject
upon which I am very earnest and very eager, and as the summer approaches I grow more and more
anxious about it. You know, also, that pleasure does more good than a hundred walks and rides.

Believe me always, my dearest Uncle, your truly devoted and attached Niece,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 3: Baron Neumann, who acted as Minister
    Plenipotentiary during the absences of Prince Esterhazy,
    succeeded him as Austrian Minister in 1842. He married Lady
    Augusta Somerset in 1844.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE OF ORANGE]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

13th May 1836.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--I got this time a very small letter from your good little Ladyship, and
I shall repay it probably in larger coin, as my letter going through a messenger of my own
will become longer, as it will be more confidential than through the usual mode of conveyance.

I am really astonished at the conduct of your old Uncle the King; this invitation of the Prince
of Orange and his sons, this forcing him upon others, is very extraordinary.[4] It is so, because
persons in political stations and champions of great political passions cannot put aside their
known character as you would lay your hat upon a table.

Not later than yesterday I got a half official communication from England, insinuating that
it would be highly desirable that the visit of your relatives should not take place, this year--qu'en
dites-vous? The relations of the Queen and the King, therefore, to the God-knows-what degree,
are to come in shoals and rule the land, when your relations are to be forbidden the country,
and that when, as you know, the whole of your relations have ever been very dutiful and kind
to the King. Really and truly I never heard or saw anything like it, and I hope it will a little
rouse your spirit; now that slavery is even abolished in the British Colonies, I do not comprehend
why your lot alone should be to be kept, a white little slavey in England, for the pleasure
of the Court, who never bought you, as I am not aware of their having gone to any expense on
that head, or the King's even having spent a sixpence for your existence. I expect that my
visits in England will also be prohibited by an Order in Council. Oh consistency and political
or other honesty, where must one look for you!

I have not the least doubt that the King, in his passion for the Oranges, will be excessively
rude to your relations; this, however, will not signify much; they are your guests and not
his, and will therefore not mind it....

    [Footnote 4: King Leopold had for some time cherished a hope
    of uniting the Princess Victoria in marriage with her cousin,
    Prince Albert of Coburg. He therefore arranged that the
    Prince, with his elder brother, Prince Ernest, should pay
    a visit to the Duchess of Kent at Kensington Palace. King
    William naturally opposed a scheme which he knew met with
    the approval of his sister-in-law. He accordingly invited
    the Prince of Orange and his two sons at the same time, and
    favoured the candidature of the younger son, Prince Alexander.
    The King (it is believed) went so far as to say that no
    other marriage should ever take place, and that the Duke of
    Saxe-Coburg and his son should never put foot in the country;
    they should not be allowed to land, and must go back whence
    they came.

    The Prince of Orange had himself been a candidate for the hand
    of Princess Charlotte, and had no reason to be friendly to
    King Leopold, of whom it is recorded that he said, "Voilà un
    homme qui a pris ma femme et mon royaume."]

[Pageheading: ARRIVAL OF PRINCE ALBERT]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

23rd May 1836.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... Uncle Ernest and my cousins arrived here on Wednesday, sains et saufs.
Uncle is looking remarkably well, and my cousins are most delightful young people. I will give
you no detailed description of them, as you will so soon see them yourself. But I must say,
that they are both very amiable, very kind and good, and extremely merry, just as young people
should be; with all that, they are extremely sensible, and very fond of occupation. Albert
is extremely handsome, which Ernest certainly is not, but he has a most good-natured, honest,
and intelligent countenance. We took them to the Opera on Friday, to see the Puritani, and
as they are excessively fond of music, like me, they were in perfect ecstasies, having never
heard any of the singers before....

[Pageheading: PRINCE ALBERT]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

7th June 1836.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--These few lines will be given to you by my dear Uncle Ernest when he sees
you. Allow me, then, my dearest Uncle, to tell you how delighted I am with him, and how much
I like him in every way. He possesses every quality that could be desired to render me perfectly
happy. He is so sensible, so kind, and so good, and so amiable too. He has, besides, the most
pleasing and delightful exterior and appearance you can possibly see.

Believe me always, my dearest Uncle, your most affectionate, devoted, and grateful Niece,

VICTORIA.

[Pageheading: CONVERSATION]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

17th June 1836.

MY DEAREST AND MOST BELOVED CHILD,--I begged your Mother, in the meantime, to offer you my
best thanks for your very pretty drawing representing the Provost of Bruges and his daughter[5];
I admired also that for your Aunt. They do your spirit of invention honour, and it is a very
good plan to draw subjects from books or plays which interest you. You will feel the loss of
a pleasant society in the old Palace, the more so as your relations are good unsophisticated
people, a thing which one does not so often meet with. I suppose that part of your London amusements
will soon be over. You were going to Windsor, which you will probably have left by this time.
I hope you were very prudent; I cannot disguise from you, that though the inhabitants are good-natured
people, still that I think you want all your natural caution with them. Never permit yourself
to be induced to tell them any opinion or sentiment of yours which is beyond the sphere of
common conversation and its ordinary topics. Bad use would be made of it against yourself,
and you cannot in that subject be too much guarded. I know well the people we have to deal
with. I am extremely impartial, but I shall also always be equally watchful.... God bless you!
Ever, my dear child, your very devoted Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 5: Leading characters in The Heiress of Bruges, by
    Grattan.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

9th August 1836.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,-- ... I was sure you would be very much pleased with Ernest and Albert as
soon as you knew them more; there cannot be two more good and sensible young men than they
are. Pray, dear Uncle, say everything most kind from me to them.

We go to Buxted[6] to-morrow morning, and stay there till next Monday.

All the gaieties are now over. We took leave of the Opera on Saturday, and a most brilliant
conclusion to the season it was. Yesterday I took my farewell lesson with Lablache,[7] which
I was very sorry to do. I have had twenty-six lessons with him, and I look forward with pleasure
to resume them again next spring.

    [Footnote 6: Lord Liverpool's house. Charles Cecil Cope
    Jenkinson, third Earl of Liverpool, was fifty-three years old
    at the time of the Queen's accession. He was a moderate Tory,
    and had held office as Under-Secretary for the Home Department
    in 1807, and in 1809 as Under-Secretary for War and the
    Colonies. He succeeded to the Earldom in 1828. The title,
    since revived, became extinct on his death in 1851. He was a
    friend of the Duchess of Kent, who often stayed with him at
    Buxted Park in Sussex, and at Pitchford in Shropshire. At
    three successive visits at the latter house the Princess
    occupied the same small room without a fireplace.]

    [Footnote 7: Luigi Lablache (1794-1858), a famous
    opera-singer, was the Princess's singing-master.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

2nd September 1836.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... The state of Spain is most alarming and unfortunate.[8] I do hope something
will be done. The news were rather better yesterday and the day before. The Christinos had
gained a victory over the Carlists.[9] I take a great interest in the whole of this unfortunate
affair. I hope and trust Portugal may not suffer by all the affairs of Spain, but much is to
be feared. Dieskau will have told you much about the internal affairs, which seem to go on
very prosperously. Pray has the Duchess of Braganza[10] written to you or Aunt Louise since
Ferdinand's marriage?

You did not send me the King of Naples'[11] letter, as you said you would; pray do so in your
next letter. I hope he will come here next year. You do not mention France, so I hope all is
quiet. The Duke of Orleans is quite well again, I am happy to hear from Aunt Louise. Now I
must conclude, begging you to believe me, always, your most truly attached and really devoted
Niece,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 8: See Introductory Note for the year, ante, p. 44.
    (to Ch. V)]

    [Footnote 9: The civil war was favourable to the Carlists at
    this time, General Gomez obtaining a victory on 30th August.
    By the end of the year he had twice traversed the kingdom,
    hampered with plunder and prisoners, and surrounded by armies
    greater than his own, and in no district did he find the
    inhabitants disposed to act against him.]

    [Footnote 10: Step-mother of the Queen of Portugal.]

    [Footnote 11: Ferdinand II., commonly named "Bomba." He
    married en secondes noces, the Archduchess Theresa of
    Austria.]

[Pageheading: A FAREWELL LETTER]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.[12]

CLAREMONT, 21st September 1836.

MY MOST DEARLY BELOVED UNCLE,--As I hear that Mamma is going to send a letter to you which
will reach you at Dover, and though it is only an hour and a half since we parted, I must write
you one line to tell you how very, very sad I am that you have left us, and to repeat, what
I think you know pretty well, how much I love you. When I think that but two hours ago we were
happily together, and that now you are travelling every instant farther and farther away from
us, and that I shall with all probability not see you for a year, it makes me cry. Yes, dearest
Uncle, it is dreadful in this life, that one is destined, and particularly unhappy me, to be
almost always separated from those one loves most dearly. I live, however, in the hopes of
your visit next year with dear Aunt, and I cannot say how thankful and happy I am that we have
had you here for six short, and to me most bright happy days! I shall look back with the greatest
delight on them.

Believe me, always, your ever devoted and most affectionately attached Niece and Child,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 12: Written at the conclusion of the King's visit to
    England.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCESS AND THE CHURCH]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 11th November 1836.

MY VERY DEAR CHILD,-- ...I know attempts have been made to represent you as indifferent to
the established Church. You know that in England the Sovereign is the head of the Church, and
that the Church looks upon the Protestant religion as it is established as the State Religion.
In times like the present, when the Crown is already a good deal weakened, I believe that it
is of importance to maintain as much as possible this state of affairs, and I believe that
you will do well, whenever an occasion offers itself to do so without affectation, to express
your sincere interest for the Church, and that you comprehend its position and count upon its
good-will. The poor Church will be a good deal persecuted, I have no doubt, but it would be
desirable that the men belonging to it should be united, sensible, and moderate....

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

RAMSGATE, 14th November 1836.

... What you say to me relative to Church matters I quite comprehend, and always am very thankful
for advice from you.

I am reading away famously. I like Mrs. Hutchinson's Life of her husband[13] only comme cela;
she is so dreadfully violent. She and Clarendon are so totally opposite, that it is quite absurd,
and I only believe the juste milieu....

Your speech interested me very much; it is very fine indeed; you wrote it yourself, did you not?

Belgium is indeed the happiest country in the world, and it is all, all owing to your great
care and kindness. "Nous étions des enfans perdus," General Goblet[14] said to me at Claremont,
"quand le Roi est venu nous sauver." And so it is....

Pray, dear Uncle, say everything most kind from me to Ernest and Albert, and believe me, always,
your affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA.

Pray, dear Uncle, is the report of the King of Naples' marriage to the Archduchess Theresa
true? I hear the king has behaved uncommonly well at Naples during the cholera panic. I enclose
the measure of my finger.

    [Footnote 13: The regicide, Colonel Hutchinson's, fame rests
    more on his wife's commemoration of him than on his own
    exploits. She was the daughter of Sir Allen Apsley, Lieutenant
    of the Tower of London, and highly educated. Between 1664 and
    1671 she wrote the biography of her husband, first published
    in 1806. "The figure of Colonel Hutchinson," says J. R.
    Green, "stands out from his wife's canvas with the grace and
    tenderness of a portrait by Van Dyck."]

    [Footnote 14: The Belgian General, Albert Joseph Goblet. Count
    d'Alviella.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF CHARLES X]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 18th November 1836.

... Poor Charles X. is dead, it is said of the cholera. I regret him; few people were ever
kinder to me than the good old man. He was blinded by certain absolute ideas, but a good man,
and deserving to be loved. History will state that Louis XVIII. was a most liberal monarch,
reigning with great mildness and justice to his end, but that his brother, from his despotic
and harsh disposition, upset all the other had done, and lost the throne. Louis XVIII. was
a clever, hard-hearted man, shackled by no principle, very proud and false. Charles X. an honest
man, a kind friend, an honourable master, sincere in his opinions, and inclined to do everything
that is right. That teaches us what we ought to believe in history as it is compiled according
to ostensible events and results known to the generality of people. Memoirs are much more instructive,
if written honestly and not purposely fabricated, as it happens too often nowadays, particularly
at Paris.... I shall not fail to read the books you so kindly recommend. I join you a small
copy of our very liberal Constitution, hitherto conscientiously executed--no easy matter. You
may communicate it to your Mother; it is the best answer to an infamous Radical or Tory-Radical
paper, the Constitutional, which seems determined to run down the Coburg family. I don't understand
the meaning of it; the only happiness poor Charlotte knew was during her short wedded existence,
and there was but one voice on that subject, that we offered a bright prospect to the nation.
Since that period I have (though been abused, and vilified merely for drawing an income which
was the consequence of a Treaty ratified by both Houses of Parliament, and that without one
dissenting voice, a thing not very likely to happen again) done everything to see England prosperous
and powerful. I have spared her, in 1831, much trouble and expense, as without my coming here
very serious complications, war and all the expensive operations connected with it, must have
taken place. I give the whole of my income, without the reservation of a farthing, to the country;
I preserve unity on the Continent, have frequently prevented mischief at Paris, and to thank
me for all that, I get the most scurrilous abuse, in which the good people from constant practice
so much excel.... The conclusion of all this--and that by people whose very existence in political
life may be but of a few years' standing--is scurrilous abuse of the Coburg family. I should
like to know what harm the Coburg family has done to England? But enough of this. Your principle
is very good; one must not mind what newspapers say. Their power is a fiction of the worst
description, and their efforts marked by the worst faith and the greatest untruths. If all
the Editors of the papers in the countries where the liberty of the press exists were to be
assembled, we should have a crew to which you would not confide a dog that you would value,
still less your honour and reputation....

[Pageheading: REVOLUTION AT LISBON]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCESS'S NAME]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

21st November 1836.

MY MOST DEARLY BELOVED UNCLE,--You cannot imagine how happy you have made me by your very dear,
kind, long, and interesting letter of the 18th, which I received yesterday morning, and for
which I beg you to accept my very warmest and best thanks. You know, I think, my dearest Uncle,
that no creature on earth loves you more dearly, or has a higher sense of admiration for you,
than I have. Independent of all that you have done--which I never, never can be grateful enough
for--my love for you exceeds all that words can express; it is innate in me, for from my earliest
years the name of Uncle was the dearest I knew, the word Uncle, alone, meant no other but you!

Your letter is so interesting and instructive that I could read it over and over again. I hope,
dear Uncle, you will in process of time give me the aperçu you mention, which would be so very
interesting for me.

I cannot tell you how distressed I was by the late unfortunate contre-révolution manquée at
Lisbon,[15] and how sorry I was to see by the letter you wrote me, that you were still unaware
of it on the 18th. Mamma received a letter from Lord Palmerston yesterday morning, which she
has sent you, and which is consolatory, I think. He speaks in the highest terms of our beloved
Ferdinand, which proves that he becomes daily more and more worthy of his arduous situation,
and says that the Queen's situation "is better than it was," less bad than it might have been
"after such an affair," and not so good as it would have been had poor Donna Maria waited patiently
till all was ripe for action. Dietz[16] wrote Mamma a most desponding letter, so much so, that
had we not got Lord Palmerston's letter we must have thought all, all was over.[17] I hope,
dear Uncle, you will tell me your feeling about the whole, which will only satisfy me; no one
else could, for I take an interest in Ferdinand's welfare as though he were my brother.

Allow me, dearest Uncle, to say a few words respecting my name, to which you allude. You are
aware, I believe, that about a year after the accession of the present King there was a desire
to change my favourite and dear name Victoria to that of Charlotte, also most dear, to which
the King willingly consented. On its being told me, I said nothing, though I felt grieved beyond
measure at the thought of any change. Not long after this, Lord Grey, and also the Archbishop
of Canterbury, acquainted Mamma that the country, having been accustomed to hear me called
Victoria, had become used to it, enfin, liked it, and therefore, to my great delight, the idea
of a change was given up.[18]

I was sure the death of old Charles X. would strike you....

I thank you much for the Constitution de la Belgique. Those attacks on you are infamous, but
must not be minded; they are the language of a few jealous, envious people. En revanche, I
enclose a paragraph from a speech of O'Connell's[19] I think worth your reading.

Pray, dearest Uncle, say everything most kind to my beloved and dearest Aunt, and thank her
in my name for her kind letter, which I shall answer on Friday. I am happy she and the dear
little man are well.

Believe me, always, your most devoted and affectionately attached Niece,

VICTORIA.

    [Footnote 15: Prince Ferdinand was appointed
    Commander-in-Chief of the Portuguese army on the advice of
    the Duc de Terceira, then Prime Minister. The appointment was
    highly unpopular; riots broke out, the army mutinied, and rose
    against the authorities, with the result that the Queen of
    Portugal was compelled to accept the Radical Constitution of
    1820, in the place of Dom Pedro's constitutional Charter
    of 1826. Later in the year the Queen, assisted by Palmella,
    Terceira, and Saldanha, made a counter-move, believing that
    the people of Lisbon would support her, and proposed to
    dismiss her Ministers; she had, however, been misled as to the
    popular aid forthcoming, and had to give up the struggle, Sá
    da Bandeira becoming Prime Minister. The Queen, virtually a
    captive, had to accede to the revolutionary requirements.]

    [Footnote 16: Dietz was a former Governor of Prince Ferdinand,
    who accompanied him to Portugal on his marriage with Donna
    Maria, and took a considerable part in political affairs.]

    [Footnote 17: A former Minister of the Interior was killed by
    the National Guards, who threatened to march on Belem, where
    the Queen was; she had to apply to the British Marines for
    protection.]

    [Footnote 18: In the course of the debate (3rd August 1831)
    on Lord Althorp's proposition to add £10,000 a year to the
    Duchess of Kent's income, Sir M. W. Ridley suggested changing
    the Princess's name to Elizabeth, as being "more accordant
    to the feelings of the people," saying that he had heard the
    subject "frequently and seriously argued." Hunt, the Radical,
    who opposed the grant, saw no objection to the change, and
    Lord Althorp thought the matter of no particular consequence.
    The Princess's own feelings, and those of her mother, do not
    seem to have been considered. See Hansard, 3rd series, vol.
    v. 591, 654 et seq.]

    [Footnote 19: Probably that on the Irish Church Question at
    the General (formerly "Catholic") Association, Dublin.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 5th December 1836.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--... I have begun since a few days Lord Clive's Life, by Sir John Malcolm,[20]
which is very interesting, as it gives much insight into the affairs of India, over parts of
which, I fear, it would be well to throw a veil. The Conservative opposition to the Melbourne
Ministry was strengthened before the meeting of Parliament by a great speech by Sir Robert
Peel at Glasgow, and Lord Brougham later on emerged from his retirement to become the able
and venomous critic of his former friends. The Government failed to carry important measures
on Church Rates and Irish Municipal Corporations, while the Radical group pressed persistently
their favourite motions in support of the Ballot, and against the Property qualification of
members, Primogeniture, the Septennial Act, the Bishops' seats and Proxy Voting in the House
of Lords. The Ministry was saved from shipwreck by the demise of the Crown and by the accession
of the Princess Victoria, who, on attaining her legal majority a month earlier, had received
marked signs of enthusiastic popular favour.

The General Election in the Autumn did not materially affect the position of parties, the Radicals
losing and O'Connell gaining seats; but the prestige of Lord Melbourne was increased by the
unique position he now held in reference to the Sovereign. Parliament was opened in person
by the Queen on 20th November, and the Civil List dealt with, the amount allocated being £385,000
as against £510,000 in the late reign (of which £75,000, formerly paid in pensions, was now
struck off, and other arrangements made).

For some time past the state of Canada had caused grave anxiety. By an Act of 1791, it had
been divided into Upper and Lower Canada, each with a Governor, Council, and House of Representatives,
Lower Canada being in the main French, while Upper Canada was occupied by British settlers.
Friction first arose in the former, between the nominee Council and the popular Assembly, the
Assembly declining to pay the salaries of officials whom they had censured, but whom the Executive
had retained in their posts. Mr Papineau, who had been Speaker of the Assembly, was leader
in the popular movement. Lord Gosford, the Governor of Lower Canada, dismissed some Militia
officers who had taken part in political demonstrations, and warrants were issued for the apprehension
of certain members of the Assembly, on the charge of high treason: within a short time the
discontented party broke out into rebellion. The course which events would take in Upper Canada
was for a time doubtful. Sir Francis Head, the Governor, placed his regular troops at the service
of Lord Gosford, preferring to rely on the militia. This unusual action was successful, but
was not approved by the Colonial Office. The state of affairs became very alarming at the close
of the year, when it was announced in Parliament that Lord Gosford had resigned and that Sir
John Colborne (afterwards Lord Seaton) had been appointed to succeed him.

In France the confederates of Louis Napoleon in the Strasburg outbreak were tried and acquitted;
a treaty was concluded at Tafna with Abd-el-Kader, but negotiations for a similar agreement
with Achmet Bey were less successful, and operations were continued against Constantin with
successful results, the town being carried by an assault on 13th October, with some loss of
officers and men on the French side.

Affairs continued unsettled in the Peninsula. In Spain General Evans was defeated near San
Sebastian, but afterwards, in conjunction with Lord John Hay, captured Irun, the frontier town.
Don Carlos meanwhile marched on Madrid, but was encountered by Espartero, Commander-in-Chief
of the Christinos, who was Prime Minister for a brief period during the year. The British legion
was dissolved, and Evans returned to England.

In Portugal the English were becoming unpopular for their supposed intervention: Ferdinand,
the Queen's consort, who was naturally believed to be in harmony with the British Cabinet,
acted tactlessly in accepting the Commandership-in-Chief, and internal hostilities continued
throughout the year.

In Hanover a reactionary step was taken by King Ernest, who had succeeded his brother, William
IV. of England, on the throne of Hanover; by letters patent he abrogated the Constitution of
1833, an action which, imperfect and open to criticism though the Constitution was, naturally
aroused anxiety among the supporters of representative institutions throughout Europe.

CHAPTER VI

1837

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

16th January 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... We saw Van de Weyer[1] on Tuesday, and his conversation was most interesting.
He praises our dear Ferdinand most exceedingly, but as for the poor Queen, what he told us
does not redound much to her credit; one good quality, however, she has, which is her excessive
fondness for and real obedience to Ferdinand. She is unfortunately surrounded by a camarilla[2]
who poison her ears, and fetter all her actions; poor soul! she is much to be pitied. About
Lavradio[3] you will also have, I fear, heard but too much. Honesty and single-heartedness
seems to have left Portugal. Van de Weyer is so clear in all that he says, so sensible, so
quiet, so clever, and, last but not least, so agreeable; I hope we shall soon see him again.
You see, dear Uncle, how much interest I take in Portugal; but I must say that I think every
one who knows dear Ferdinand, and particularly who loves him as I do, must feel a very deep
interest as to the fate of the unhappy country in which he is destined to play so prominent
and difficult a part.

I have been reading to-day a very clever speech of Sir Robert Peel's (not a political one)
to the University at Glasgow, on the occasion of his being elected Lord Rector of that college.
There is another speech of his at the dinner at Glasgow which is political, but which I have
not yet read....[4]

    [Footnote 1: Sylvain Van de Weyer (b. 1802) was, in 1830,
    Belgian Plenipotentiary at the Conference of London. He
    returned to his own country and became Foreign Minister.
    His exertions contributed greatly to render successful the
    candidature of Prince Leopold for the throne of Belgium. The
    King appointed him Belgian Minister in London, to which post
    he returned in 1851, and held it till 1867. He was treated by
    the Queen until his death in 1874 as a very intimate friend
    and adviser.]

    [Footnote 2: I.e. a clique.]

    [Footnote 3: The Portuguese Statesman who had gone to Gotha
    to arrange the Queen's marriage, and was destined to act in a
    similar manner for her son in 1857.]

    [Footnote 4: Sir R. Peel was installed as Lord Rector of
    Glasgow on 11th January, and delivered an address on the
    principles of Education: strong political feeling was
    manifested, groans being given for Lord Melbourne and the
    Ministry. At a civic banquet given in Sir R. Peel's honour, he
    expounded the principles of Conservative Reform.]

[Pageheading: SPAIN AND PORTUGAL]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

23rd January 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... The affairs of the Peninsula are indeed very distressing,[5] and what
you tell me in your letter of the 20th, as also in the former one, is highly interesting and,
alas! but too true. I trust, not withstanding what you say, I may yet live to see Spain and
Portugal settled. But I greatly fear that the time is far distant.

Do you know Mendizabal?[6] I saw him at our house in 1835. Alava[7] presented him to us; he
is a tall, dark, fine, and clever-looking man. I remember his being so much struck with my
likeness to Donna Maria, which I was not aware was the case. Pray, dear Uncle, may I ask you
a silly question?--is not the Queen of Spain[8] rather clever? You know her, and what do you
think of her? And do you know what sort of people are about poor little Queen Isabel?[9] Poor,
good Donna Maria! I feel much for her; her education was one of the worst that could be. As
long as those Ficalhos and Melos remain about her, nothing can be done. Could they not be got
rid of in time?

I was sorry to see that the French Chambers were rather stormy.[10]

I thank you much for the list of the ball of the 18th, which must have been very splendid.
The last ball I was at was our own, and I concluded that very ball at half-past three in the
morning with a country dance, Albert being my partner.

Pray, dear Uncle, tell both young gentlemen, with my kindest love, that I often think of that
night and of many other pleasant evenings we passed together. The singing will come all in
time. Who is their singing-master? I wish they had my worthy Lablache. I sing regularly every
evening, as I think it better to do so every day to keep the voice manageable. Oh, my beloved
Uncle, could you join us, how delightful that would be! How I should delight in singing with
you all our favourite things from La Gazza, Otello, Il Barbiere, etc., etc.

The little Cousin[11] must be a little love: oh, could I but see him and play with him! Pray,
dear Uncle, does he know such a thing as that he has got an Aunt and Cousin on the other side
of the water? ...

Pray, dear Uncle, have you read Sir R. Peel's two speeches? I wish you would, and give me your
opinion of them.

    [Footnote 5: Some interesting observations on these events may
    be read in Borrow's Bible in Spain.]

    [Footnote 6: Don Juan Alvarez y Mendizabal (1790-1853),
    Spanish politician and financier.]

    [Footnote 7: Miguel Ricardo di Alava (1771-1843), Spanish
    General; he acted as the representative of Spain at Paris, at
    the Court of the Bourbons; he was a great friend of the Duke
    of Wellington, and was with him at his headquarters during the
    Peninsular War.]

    [Footnote 8: The Queen Regent, Christina.]

    [Footnote 9: Then six years old; she died in 1904.]

    [Footnote 10: This was in reference to the trial at Strasburg
    of the confederates of Prince Louis Bonaparte (afterwards
    Napoleon III.) in his abortive attempt to establish a military
    despotism on 30th October. The Prince was permitted to go to
    the United States, being conveyed in a French frigate; the
    other conspirators were acquitted.]

    [Footnote 11: Leopold, born in 1835, afterwards Duke of
    Brabant, the present King of the Belgians.]

[Pageheading: PARLIAMENTARY LANGUAGE]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 30th January 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... I am very sorry that the Portuguese news are still so very unfavourable;
I trust that, in time, things will come right. The Portuguese are, as you say, a most inconceivable
set of selfish politicians.

Our friend, Mr Hume,[12] made a most violent speech at a dinner given to him and old George
Byng[13] at Drury Lane last week.[14] He called Sir R. Peel and some other Tories "the cloven
foot," which I think rather strong. I think that great violence and striving such a pity, on
both sides, don't you, dear Uncle? They irritate one another so uselessly by calling one another
fools, blockheads, liars, and so forth for no purpose. I think violence so bad in everything.
They should imitate you, and be calm, for you have had, God knows! enough cause for irritation
from your worthy Dutch neighbours and others. You will, I fear, laugh at my politics, but I
like telling you my feelings, for you alone can put me right on such subjects.

    [Footnote 12: Joseph Hume, leader of the Radical party, was
    now M.P. for Middlesex.]

    [Footnote 13: George Byng, for many years Member for
    Middlesex, was great-grandson of William Wentworth, Earl of
    Strafford, of the 1711 creation. His younger brother, Sir John
    Byng, the well-known General of the Peninsula and Waterloo,
    was created Earl of Strafford in 1817.]

    [Footnote 14: This was a dinner given by the Middlesex
    reformers to their representatives. Grote also spoke and said
    that the Tories well knew that their dominion rested upon
    everything that was antiquated and corrupt and anti-popular in
    the nation--upon oligarchical predominance in the State, and
    sectarian pride and privileges in the Church.]

[Pageheading: POLITICAL PASSION]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

3rd February 1837.

MY DEAR CHILD,-- ... I am sorry to see so much violence in England at this moment; I consider
it as the most lamentable circumstance, as it renders matters so very difficult to settle.
Besides, the poor Crown is more or less the loser in all this, as it generally ends with the
abolition of something or other which might have proved useful for the carrying on of Government.
A rule which you may thus early impress on your mind is, that people are far from acting generally
according to the dictates of their interests, but oftener in consequence of their passions,
though it may even prove injurious to their interests. If the Tory part of Parliament could
have brought themselves to act without passion, much in the reform of Parliament might have
been settled much more in conformity with their best interests. I was authorised, in 1831,
to speak in this sense to the Duke of Wellington by Lord Grey;[15] the effect would have been
highly beneficial to both parties, but passion made it impossible to succeed. This is a dangerous
part of the business, and we must see during the present session of Parliament if parties are
grown wiser. I fear they are not. The business of the highest in a State is certainly, in my
opinion, to act with great impartiality and a spirit of justice for the good of all, and not
of this or that party.[16]

    [Footnote 15: This refers to the rejection of the Reform Bill
    by the House of Lords in 1831; as a consequence, mobs broke
    the windows of Apsley House, and fired Nottingham Castle.]

    [Footnote 16: On 14th April 1837, Sir Robert Peel wrote to J.
    W. Croker:-- ... "We are, in short, in this state of things.
    All the convictions and inclinations of the Government are
    with their Conservative opponents. Half their actions and all
    their speeches are with the Radicals." (Croker Papers, ii.
    306.)]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

CLAREMONT, 6th February 1837.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,-- ... I do not know quite for certain when we leave this place, but I should
think to-day week. You must be pleased, dear Uncle, I think, for we shall have been six months
in the country next Thursday, as we left town on the 10th of August last, and I am sure you
will stand by me for my having my season fully, as you may understand that my Operatic and
Terpsichorean feelings are pretty strong, now that the season is returning, and I have been
a very good child, not even wishing to come to town till now. We shall certainly come here
for the Easter week.

Dr Clark[17] arrived here quite happy last night, bringing the news that Van de Weyer had had
the best news from Lisbon he had received since his return, that all had gone off quietly,
that Ferdinand was daily gaining popularity, and that both he and the Queen had been very well
received at the theatre. The man who threw a stone at Ferdinand was a Frenchman, whom, it seems,
Ferdinand had relieved with money over and over again. A fine specimen of gratitude!

I hope and trust with you that there will be less violence in Parliament this year, but much
is to be feared.

You will miss my good cousins Ernest and Albert very much, I am sure; I hope you will instil
into them to take enough exercise and not to study too much.

There were two questions in my last letter but one, which you have not answered, dear Uncle.
They are: 1st, What you think of the Queen Christina of Spain, what opinion you have of her,
as one cannot believe reports? 2nd, If you know what sort of people are about poor little Queen
Isabel, and if she is being well or ill brought up?...

    [Footnote 17: Afterwards Sir James Clark, and
    Physician-in-Ordinary to the Queen.]

[Pageheading: A DINNER PARTY]

[Pageheading: THE THRONE OF GREECE]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

14th March 1837.

... We had a dinner on Saturday which amused me, as I am very fond of pleasant society, and
we have been for these last three weeks immured within our old palace, and I longed sadly for
some gaiety. After being so very long in the country I was preparing to go out in right earnest,
whereas I have only been twice to the play since our return, which is marvellous! However,
we are to have another dinner to-morrow, and are going to the play and Opera. After Easter
I trust I shall make ample amends for all this solitariness. I hope to begin singing with Lablache
shortly after Easter. But to return to last Saturday's dinner. We had the Archbishop of Dublin,[18]
a clever but singular man, and his lady; Lord Palmerston, with whom I had much pleasant and
amusing conversation after dinner--you know how agreeable he is; then Lady Cadogan,[19] who
enquired much after you and Aunt Louise; Lord and Lady Rosebery,[20] Mr and Mrs E. Stanley,[21]
Lord Morpeth,[22] Lord Templetown,[23] Sir John Cam Hobhouse,[24] Dr Lushington,[25] and Mr
Woulfe,[26] the Solicitor-General for Ireland, a Roman Catholic and a very clever man. Lady
Cadogan, who is not long come back from Paris, says that the Duke of Orleans has been going
out very little and is remarkably well. I saw a report in the papers that he and the Duc de
Nemours were coming over here, which I fear is not true; I wish it was....

There is one thing in your former letter which I must answer, or, rather, more advert to. You
said to me, that if it was not for me, you would regret Greece very much. Now, I assure you,
dearest Uncle, you ought not to regret it, though there is not a doubt that Greece would be
much happier were you there. But I have heard from various people who have been staying in
Greece that they very soon got to like the Turks much better than the Greeks, who are very
untrue, and are quite banditti-like; then, again, the country, though undoubtedly fine in parts,
is a rocky and barren country, and also you are constantly exposed to the effects of the Plague,
that most dreadful of all evils; and then, lastly, how very, very far you would be, how cut
off from all those who are dear to you, and how exposed to dangers of all kinds!

I much grieve that they are quarrelling so much in the French Chambers.[27] I must now conclude.

    [Footnote 18: Richard Whateley, formerly Principal of St Alban
    Hall, and Drummond Professor of Political Economy at Oxford.]

    [Footnote 19: Louisa Honoria, wife of the third Earl, and
    sister of Joseph, first Lord Wallscourt.]

    [Footnote 20: Archibald, fourth Earl of Rosebery, and Anne
    Margaret, his second wife, daughter of the first Viscount
    Anson.]

    [Footnote 21: Edward Stanley, afterwards fourteenth Earl of
    Derby, thrice Prime Minister.]

    [Footnote 22: Chief Secretary for Ireland.]

    [Footnote 23: John Henry, first Viscount, formerly M.P. for
    Bury St Edmunds.]

    [Footnote 24: Sir John Cam Hobhouse, a Radical, and a friend
    of Byron, at whose wedding he acted as best man; he was
    imprisoned in 1819 for breach of privilege. He was elected
    M.P. for Westminster in 1820 as Burdett's colleague, and
    afterwards for Nottingham and Harwich. Commissioner of Woods
    and Forests (the old Houses of Parliament being burned down
    during his term of office), and later President of Board of
    Control. Created Lord Broughton, 1851.]

    [Footnote 25: Stephen Lushington, advocate in the old
    Ecclesiastical Court, M.P. for Ilchester and the Tower
    Hamlets, and a Judge in the Ecclesiastical and Admiralty
    Courts from 1828 to 1867.]

    [Footnote 26: Stephen Woulfe, M.P. for Carlisle,
    Solicitor-General, and subsequently Attorney-General, for
    Ireland, becoming Chief Baron in 1838.]

    [Footnote 27: On 10th March a heated debate took place in the
    French Chamber on the question of the Queen of the Belgians'
    dowry, a Deputy calling for the production of King Louis
    Philippe's rent-roll, and a complete statement of his income.]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 31st March 1837.

MY BELOVED CHILD,--Your dear letter of the 28th gave me the greatest pleasure. I was sure from
your constant affection for us that you would feel much interested in the event of the 24th.
It was a moment of some anxiety, but all passed over very well. Your Aunt is going on very
well, and the little cousin[28] also. He is smaller than his brother was, but promises to be
like him; the features are much the same, the shape of the forehead and mouth. The elder Prince
was much interested about his frère, and anxious to see him; at first, however, he declared
after a long contemplation, "pas beau frère!" Now he thinks better of him, but makes a very
odd little face when he sees him. The name of the little one will be Philippe Eugène Ferdinand
Marie Clément Baudouin (Baldwin)--a name of the old Counts of Flanders--Léopold Georges. My
Aunt, who is his godmother, wished he should be called Philippe in honour of his grandfather,
and as Philippe le Bon was one of the most powerful Princes of this country, I gave him the
name with pleasure. Eugène is her own name, Ferdinand that of Chartres, Marie of the Queen
and also of Princess Marie, Clément of Princess Clémentine; Léopold your Aunt wished, and George
in honour of St George of England and of George IV. Probably I shall hereafter give to Léopold
the title of Duke of Brabant, and to Philippe that of Count of Flanders, both fine old titles.

    [Footnote 28: Philippe, second son of King Leopold, afterwards
    Count of Flanders. He died in 1905.]

[Pageheading: PRESS COMMENTS]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 7th April 1837.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--... You have been the subject of all sorts of newspaper paragraphs; your
good and sensible way of looking on these very creditable productions will be of use to you.
If the press says useful things, and makes observations which merit attention, there is no
doubt that sometimes, though God knows very rarely, something useful may be gleaned from them.
But when you see its present state, when the one side says black and the other white, when
the opposite political characters are treated by their respective antagonists as rogues, fools,
blockheads, wretches, and all the other names in which the English political dictionary is
so very rich, one stands like the ass, between two bundles of hay, considerably embarrassed
which ought to be chosen....

[Pageheading: THE PRINCESS'S ESTABLISHMENT]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 11th April 1837.

... As I believe the visit at Windsor is fixed for the 15th, I hope this letter will arrive
in time. Perhaps the King will speak to you about the necessity of forming you an establishment.[29]...
Your position, having a Mother with whom you very naturally remain, would render a complete
independent establishment perhaps matter of real inconvenience; still something like that which
Charlotte had will become desirable. My idea, if it meets with your approbation, would be this:
The Duchess of Northumberland would remain your first Lady, Baroness Lehzen would fill a position
similar to that of Mrs Campbell, who had been Charlotte's governess in her younger days, and
the Dean[30] would step into the position which good Dr Short[31] held. An Equerry, I do not
think--as you will not go out without your Mother--you would require. On the other hand, it
may become matter of examination if you will perhaps like to have some young ladies attendants
in the style of Lady Catherine Jenkinson;[32] should this be your wish, it would become necessary
to make very good choices, else perhaps you would derive more trouble than comfort from the
arrangement; cela va sans dire, that the choice could only be made by yourself, and that nobody
should be given you against your wishes. Should the King speak to you on the subject, I would
at once express this my wish if you should approve some such arrangement, and beg him to let
you choose. Resist mildly but positively any nomination of a Gentleman other than the Dean;
it is highly probable that any other would be put about you as a spy, and turn out at all events
a great bore, which is better avoided....

I received a messenger from Coburg. I enclose the letters and also a packet with fans. Ever,
my beloved child, your faithfully attached Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 29: The Princess was to attain her legal majority on
    24th May.]

    [Footnote 30: George Davys, the Princess Victoria's
    instructor, Dean of Chester, and afterwards Bishop of
    Peterborough.]

    [Footnote 31: Thomas Vowler Short, Rector of St George's,
    Bloomsbury, appointed in 1841 Bishop of Sodor and Man.]

    [Footnote 32: Lady Catherine Jenkinson, daughter of the Earl
    of Liverpool, soon after the Queen's accession married Colonel
    Francis Vernon Harcourt.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

12th April 1837.

... What you say about the newspapers is very true and very flattering. They are indeed a curious
compound of truth and untruth. I am so used to newspaper nonsense and attacks that I do not
mind it in the least....

How happy I am that that beloved Aunt is going on so well and does not suffer from the cold,
as also the jeune Philippe. Leopold must be great fun with his Aunt Marie;[33] does he still
say "pas beau frère!" or is he more reconciled to his brother? It is very noble in the Duc
de Nemours to have thus given up his apanage;[34] I am sorry there were such difficulties about
it. There is no Ministry formed yet, I see by the papers.

    [Footnote 33: Princess Marie of Orleans, born 1813, daughter
    of King Louis Philippe, and thus sister to the Queen of the
    Belgians.]

    [Footnote 34: This grant was surrendered in order that due
    provision might be made by the Legislature for the elder
    brother, the Duke of Orleans, on the occasion of his marriage
    with the Princess Hélène of Mecklenburg-Schwerin.]

[Pageheading: THE IRISH MUNICIPAL BILL]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

28th April 1837.

MY MOST BELOVED UNCLE,--.... Sir Henry Hardinge's[35] motion was quite lost, I am happy to
say, and don't you think, dearest Uncle, that it has almost done good, as it proves that the
Tories have lost all chance of getting in? It was a trial of strength, and the Ministry have
triumphed. I have been reading in the papers, what I suppose you already know, that it is believed
that the Lords will pass the Irish Corporation Bill;[36] and also that Ministers mean to drop
for the present the question about Church Rates,[37] as the Radicals, being angry with Ministers
relative to the Canada business, would not support them well.

    [Footnote 35: On a motion for going into supply, Sir H.
    Hardinge proposed an amendment censuring the Government for
    the authorisation of the raising of a force of Volunteers to
    assist the Spanish Government, and for the method in which
    that force had been organised. The amendment was lost by a
    majority of 36, on 19th April.]

    [Footnote 36: The Irish Municipal Bill, to convert
    Corporations of Municipalities into Electoral Councils, was
    introduced in the House of Commons on the 15th of February.
    The Bill was opposed by the Conservatives, but passed the
    House of Commons. In the Lords an amendment of Lyndhurst's
    struck out the constructive clauses, and the Act became, on
    the 18th of May, an Act for the Abolition of Municipalities
    in Ireland. Lord John Russell brought forward a motion to
    reconstruct the Bill. But the Peers declined to pass it, and
    it was postponed.]

    [Footnote 37: As Ministers only obtained a majority of 5 in a
    house of 569, the measure was dropped.]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 28th April 1837.

... I hope you occupy yourself with the several great questions which agitate parties. I think
a good mode will be to talk concerning them sometimes with the Dean. He is a good moderate
man, and still well able to give you sufficient information. From conversation with clever
people, such as dine sometimes with you, much may be very usefully gathered, and you will do
well to attend to this. I am no enemy to this way of instruction, and have seen people who
were sharp enough to profit wonderfully by it. You hear in this way the opinions of a variety
of persons, and it rests with your own good sense to classify and appreciate them....

[Pageheading: MINISTERIAL ANXIETY]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

2nd May 1837.

... You may depend upon it that I shall profit by your excellent advice respecting Politics.
Pray, dear Uncle, have you read Lord Palmerston's speech concerning the Spanish affairs,[38]
which he delivered the night of the division on Sir Henry Hardinge's motion? It is much admired.
The Irish Tithes question came on last night in the House of Commons,[39] and I am very anxious
for the morning papers, to see what has been done. Lord Melbourne looks remarkably well, Lord
Palmerston not very well, and as for poor little Lord John Russell, he is only a shadow of
himself. It must be dreadfully fagging work for them; they sit so very late too, for when the
Spanish question came on, the division only took place at four o'clock in the morning, and
I saw them at the Drawing-Room the same day afterwards....

    [Footnote 38: Lord Palmerston indignantly asked whether
    England should continue to fulfil her engagement with the
    Queen of Spain, or disgracefully abandon an ally whom she had
    pledged herself to succour.]

    [Footnote 39: The Irish Tithe Bill, a measure to facilitate
    the collection of tithes, was abandoned because the Tories
    would not consent to any secular appropriation of Church
    revenues, and the Whigs would not consent to the withdrawal
    of their amendments. A remarkable feature in the Bill was a
    proposal that a portion of every clergyman's income should be
    applied to education, as was already prescribed by a former
    Act.]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

9th May 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--It was very kind of you to write to me from your new château; I hardly ventured
to hope for my usual letter, and yet I should have been much disappointed had I not received
it. I am sorry that the house is so bad, but hope you will have found a good position for a
new one....

Pray, dearest Uncle, may I ask such an indiscreet question as, if Major Stroekens is a clever
man; he was so nervous and embarrassed when he came here, that I could not make him out. He
brought me a very nice letter from Donna Maria.

I am anxiously waiting to hear the issue of the battle between the Carlists and Christinos,
which is, they say, to decide a great deal.[40]

Now farewell, dearest Uncle. I beg my affectionate love to my dear Aunt, and my most respectful
hommages to the Members of the Family with you. Believe me, always, your affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA.

Old Pozzo[41] dined here last Wednesday, and he gave me a long, I must say clever, dissertation
about the state of France, during dinner-time.

    [Footnote 40: After an obstinate investment by the Carlists,
    Espartero had relieved Bilbao on Christmas Day, 1836. The
    Christino commanders then began to concert a combined
    movement on the Carlist lines, which stretched from Irun to
    Villafranca.]

    [Footnote 41: Count Pozzo di Borgo (1764-1842), Russian
    Ambassador. By birth a Corsican and a devoted patriot, he was
    a life-long opponent of Napoleon and his designs. He entered
    the Russian diplomatic service in 1803, and after Waterloo
    became Russian Ambassador in Paris.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--You have had some battles and difficulties of which I am completely in the
dark. The thing I am most curious to learn is what the King proposed to you concerning your
establishment.... I shall reserve my opinion till I am better informed, but by what I heard
I did not approve of it, because I thought it ill-timed. Stockmar will be able to do much.
Two things seem necessary; not to be fettered by any establishment other than what will be
comfortable to you, and then to avoid any breach with your mother. I have fully instructed
Stockmar, and I must say he left me in such good disposition that I think he will be able to
be of great use to you. The great thing is to act without precipitation and with caution. The
King seems better again. I am very curious to know what he proposed; you will have it in your
power to modify his proposition, as it is difficult your approbation should be dispensed with;
it would be a great fault in your situation to submit to this.... They seemed to think the
King dying, which does not appear to be the case. Be steady, my good child, and not put out
by anything; as long as I live you will not want a faithful friend and supporter....

Here your somewhat curious little soul has at least the outlines of things....

26th.--I received yesterday the whole of the papers concerning the King's propositions.[42]
I approve your letter to the King, as it is amiable and generous, and this in your position
will always tell favourably. I think that if he is well advised he will chiefly consult your
wishes. This is the footing on which you must place matters. It is not worth while to be told
that one is in some sort of age when the consequence is that you are not consulted in what
concerns you most personally. Avoid in future to say much about your great youth and inexperience.
Who made the letter? Was it yourself, or came it from your Mother? You have now the Baron at
your elbow, and even your Mother was most anxious for his arrival. Speak sometimes with him;
it is necessary to accustom you to the thing.

About the King's health.[43] I am doubtful what to think. We have foreseen the case and treated
it formerly. The great thing would be to make no change, to keep Ministers and everything as
it is, and to gain time; in this way no one is hurt and no amour-propre blessé. For this reason
I lean to your keeping, to begin with, Sir Herbert Taylor[44] for your official secretary,
though I am not quite decided on the subject. He knows the manner in which the daily business
is carried on; this is important. I believe him, and have found him to be an honest man, that
would do for State matters; it would not be required that he should be your confidential adviser.
Now I conclude, and send you this letter through Stockmar. My best regards to Lehzen. Ever
your faithful Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 42: The King had offered the Princess an
    establishment of £10,000 a year, independent of her mother.
    This was accepted, to the great vexation of the Duchess of
    Kent, but the arrangement was not carried into effect.]

    [Footnote 43: King William's health was at this time causing
    much anxiety.]

    [Footnote 44: Private Secretary to King William IV.]

[Pageheading: BIRTHDAY REJOICINGS]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

26th May 1837.

... The demonstrations of affection and kindness from all sides towards me on my birthday,
were most gratifying. The parks and streets were crowded all day as though something very extraordinary
had happened. Yesterday I received twenty-two Addresses from various places, all very pretty
and loyal; one in particular was very well written which was presented by Mr. Attwood[45] from
the Political Union at Birmingham.

I am delighted to hear Stockmar is at length arrived; he reached London on Wednesday, and we
shall see him to-day.

How distressed I am that poor dear Ernest[46] has been so ill! Thank God! that he is now better.

The Spanish affairs have turned out better than you had expected; the triumphant capture of
Irun[47] was a great thing for the Christinos.

The King is much better.

    [Footnote 45: Thomas Attwood founded in 1829 the Birmingham Political
    Union, which helped to pass the Reform Act. Previously he had been
    known for his opposition to the Orders in Council, and the resumption
    of cash payments. Birmingham elected him without opposition in 1832,
    and he sat till 1840.]

    [Footnote 46: Prince Ernest of Saxe-Coburg.]

    [Footnote 47: The frontier town of Spain, near St Sebastian,
    captured, 16th May, by the Christinos, supported by British
    troops.]

[Pageheading: ADVICE AND ENCOURAGEMENT]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

TUILERIES, 7th June 1837.

... The entrée[48] last Sunday was something remarkably splendid; we saw it from the Tuileries,
as we had nothing to do with the business itself, and your Aunt's rank would have clashed with
that of the Duchess of Orleans. The effect of all this on the people of this great town has
been very great, and evidently much ground has been solidly regained. The King, getting out
of that sort of confinement in which it was necessary to keep, has gained much in personal
comfort, and also in a political point of view; because to have a King who cannot show himself
without being shot at, is a state of society which lowers his authority....

For the present the best plan is to continue to act as you have done hitherto; to avoid quarrels,
but also to stick firmly to your resolution when once taken. The violence which is sometimes
shown is so well known to you, you know also so well that you have nothing to fear from these
people, that you must keep up your usual cool spirit, whatever may be tried in the House to
teaze you out of it. I mean to wait some more detailed accounts of what is going on in England
before I give my opinion on what ought to be done in the case that the King's disease should
take a more fatal turn.

As I told you before, however, when we treated this subject verbally and in writing, I believe
it to be your interest to act very mildly, to begin by taking everything as the King leaves
it. By this system you avoid disappointing those whose hopes may remain unchanged, as your
own choices, as it were, are not yet made. Parties, which at present are so nearly balanced,
remain in statu quo, and you gain time.

I must conclude now this letter. My winding up is, keep your mind cool and easy; be not alarmed
at the prospect of becoming perhaps sooner than you expected Queen; aid will not be wanting,
and the great thing is that you should have some honest people about you who have your welfare
really at heart. Stockmar will be in this respect all we can wish, and we must hope that useful
occupation will prevent his health from suffering. Now once more God bless you. Ever, my dear
child, your faithful Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 48: The entry into Paris of the Duke and Duchess of
    Orleans, who had been married at Fontainebleau on May 30th.]

[Pageheading: THE ACCESSION IMMINENT]

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 15th June 1837.

MY BELOVED CHILD,--I hope that to-day will not pass over without bringing me a letter from
you. In the meantime I will begin this epistle, which will go by a messenger of my own to-morrow.
In every letter I shall write to you I mean to repeat to you, as a fundamental rule, to be
courageous, firm and honest, as you have been till now. You may count upon my faithful good
offices in all difficulties, and you have at your command Stockmar, whose judgment, heart,
and character offer all the guarantees we can wish for. I wish nothing but to see you happy
and prosperous, and by Sunday I shall probably write you a long letter, which will enter into
details about most things.

My object is that you should be no one's tool, and though young, and naturally not yet experienced,
your good natural sense and the truth of your character will, with faithful and proper advice,
get you very well through the difficulties of your future position, should it be the will of
Providence to take the King from this earthly life. Of his real position I am still not quite
able to judge, there being so much contradictory in the reports. Be this as it may, the great
thing for you is, not to be hurried into important measures, and to gain time. A new reign
is always a time of hope; everybody is disposed to see something for his own wishes and prospects.
The policy of a new Sovereign must therefore be to act in such a manner as to hurt as little
as possible the amour-propre of people, to let circumstances and the force of things bring
about the disappointments which no human power could prevent coming sooner or later: that they
should come as late as possible is in your interest. Should anything happen to the King before
I can enter more fully into the necessary details, limit yourself to taking kindly and in a
friendly manner the present Administration into your service. They are naturally friendly to
your interests, as you are in fact the only possible Sovereign of the whole family, with the
exception of the Duke of Sussex, they can serve with sincerity and attachment. This is of great
importance to you, as it is by no means the same thing to have people who aid and assist you
with feelings of real attachment, or merely from cold and calculating motives of political
expediency and self-interest. This being done, no other step should be taken without consulting
seriously. The very time which is necessary to attain this end is favourable to you, as it
is your greatest interest for the present moment to act most cautiously and to gain as much
time as possible. In high positions it is excessively difficult to retrace a false move to
get out of a mistake; and there exists very rarely, except in time of war and civil feuds,
a necessity for an immediate decision. Your part must be, to resume once more what I said before,
to remain as long as possible agreeable to all parties, and after the formation of the Ministry,
to be most careful how you take any measure of importance....

[Pageheading: THE KING'S ILLNESS]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

16th June 1837.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--... I cannot say how happy I am that the entrée publique into Paris succeeded
so well, and that the dear King was so well received; I trust he will now at last be rewarded
for all the troubles and anxiety he has had ever since 1830. Lord Palmerston said that the
French say that l'assassinat est hors de mode. I hope and trust in Heaven that this may be
the case, and for ever!

You know, of course, dear Uncle, how very ill the King is; it may all be over at any moment,
and yet may last a few days. Consequently, we have not been out anywhere in public since Tuesday,
6th, and since Wednesday all my lessons are stopped, as the news may arrive very suddenly....

The King of the Belgians to the Princess Victoria.

LAEKEN, 17th June 1837.

MY BELOVED CHILD,--... I shall to-day enter on the subject of what is to be done when the King
ceases to live. The moment you get official communication of it, you will entrust Lord Melbourne
with the office of retaining the present Administration as your Ministers. You will do this
in that honest and kind way which is quite your own, and say some kind things on the subject.
The fact is that the present Ministers are those who will serve you personally with the greatest
sincerity and, I trust, attachment. For them, as well as for the Liberals at large, you are
the only Sovereign that offers them des chances d'existence et de durée. With the exception
of the Duke of Sussex, there is no one in the family that offers them anything like what they
can reasonably hope from you, and your immediate successor, with the mustaches,[49] is enough
to frighten them into the most violent attachment for you.

... The irksome position in which you have lived will have the merit to have given you the
habit of discretion and prudence, as in your position you never can have too much of either.
Great measures of State I hope you will be able to avoid at first. I have already--if you would
read it over, and perhaps let Stockmar see it--written to you some months ago on the subject
of the necessity of maintaining the influence of conservative principles, and of protecting
the Church. You will do well to keep both objects in view. You will do wisely by showing yourself
attached to the English Protestant Church as it exists in the State; you are particularly where
you are, because you are a Protestant. I know you are averse to persecution, and you are right;
miss, however, no opportunity to show your sincere feeling for the existing Church; it is right
and meet that you should do so. I must repeat that you will do well as long as it will be possible
to hurt no one's hopes or prospects. That this will not always, or very long, be possible is
the consequence of the state of parties; still, one may be frank and honest, and still kind
to all. Concerning foreign policy I shall write on some future occasion. In the meantime I
trust you will protect the two Queens in the Peninsula, who are miserably ill off. I am sure,
with your good sense you will not find it difficult to judge questions yourself. I cannot too
much recommend this, as it will then become a habit, and even an amusement to you. Cultivate
always a genuine feeling of right and wrong, and be very true and honourable in your dealings;
this gives great strength. I have taken into consideration the advantage or disadvantage of
my coming over to you immediately. The result of my examen is that I think it better to visit
you later. If, however, you wanted me at any time, I should come in a moment. People might
fancy I came to enslave you, while I glory in the contrary; and, thirdly, that they might be
jealous, or affect it at least, of my coming, as if I thought of ruling the realm for purposes
of my own....

I am now at the end, I think, of what I had to say. May Heaven bless you and keep up your spirits.
Ever, my beloved child, your faithful Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

Pardon the hurry in which this letter was written.

    [Footnote 49: The Duke of Cumberland.]

[Pageheading: THE KING'S CONDITION HOPELESS]

The Princess Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

19th June 1837.

MY DEARLY BELOVED UNCLE,--Your kind and dear letter, containing most wholesome, prudent, sound
and excellent advice, was given me by our good and invaluable honest friend, Stockmar, and
I beg you to accept my best thanks for it. Before I say anything else, let me tell you how
happy and thankful I am to have Stockmar here; he has been, and is, of the greatest possible
use, and be assured, dearest Uncle, that he possesses my most entire confidence!

The King's state, I may fairly say, is hopeless; he may perhaps linger a few days, but he cannot
recover ultimately. Yesterday the physicians declared he could not live till the morning, but
to-day he is a little better; the great fear is his excessive weakness and no pulse at all.
Poor old man! I feel sorry for him; he was always personally kind to me, and I should be ungrateful
and devoid of feeling if I did not remember this.

I look forward to the event which it seems is likely to occur soon, with calmness and quietness;
I am not alarmed at it, and yet I do not suppose myself quite equal to all; I trust, however,
that with good-will, honesty, and courage I shall not, at all events, fail. Your advice is
most excellent, and you may depend upon it I shall make use of it, and follow it, as also what
Stockmar says. I never showed myself, openly, to belong to any party, and I do not belong to
any party. The Administration will undoubtedly be well received by me, the more so as I have
real confidence in them, and in particular in Lord Melbourne, who is a straightforward, honest,
clever and good man.

I need not add much more, dearest Uncle, but that I trust that the all-powerful Being who has
so long watched over my destinies will guide and support me, in whatever situation and station
it may please Him to place me!...

[Pageheading: THE ACCESSION]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

SOUTH STREET, 20th June 1837.

Viscount Melbourne[50] presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and being aware that your
Majesty has already received the melancholy intelligence of the death of his late Majesty,
will do himself the honour of waiting upon your Majesty a little before nine this morning.
Viscount Melbourne has requested the Marquis of Lansdowne[51] to name eleven as the hour for
the meeting of the Council at Kensington Palace.

    [Footnote 50: Lord Melbourne, so far as can be augured from
    his handwriting, which is extremely difficult to decipher,
    appears always to have written his own name Melburne. But
    it is not the correct spelling, and no one else seems to have
    employed it.]

    [Footnote 51: Lord President of the Council; formerly for a
    brief period (1806-7) Chancellor of the Exchequer.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

20th June 1837 (half-past eight A.M.).

DEAREST, MOST BELOVED UNCLE,--Two words only, to tell you that my poor Uncle, the King, expired
this morning at twelve minutes past two. The melancholy news were brought to me by Lord Conyngham[52]
and the Archbishop of Canterbury[53] at six. I expect Lord Melbourne almost immediately, and
hold a Council at eleven. Ever, my beloved Uncle, your devoted and attached Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 52: Francis Nathaniel, second Marquis of Conyngham,
    had been M.P. for Westbury and Donegal, and was now Lord
    Chamberlain.]

    [Footnote 53: William Howley (1766-1848), Bishop of London
    1813-1828, Primate 1828-1848.]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 20th June 1837.

MY DEAREST NIECE ... I feel most grateful for your kind letter full of sympathy with my irreparable
loss, and thank you with all my heart for your feeling expressions on this melancholy occasion.
I am, as you may suppose, deeply affected by all the sad scenes I have gone through lately;
but I have the great comfort to dwell upon the recollection of the perfect resignation, piety,
and patience with which the dear King bore his trials and sufferings, and the truly Christian-like
manner of his death.

Excuse my writing more at present, my heart is overwhelmed and my head aches very much. Accept
the assurance of my most affectionate devotion, and allow me to consider myself always as your
Majesty's most affectionate Friend, Aunt, and Subject,

ADELAIDE.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S JOURNAL]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S FIRST COUNCIL]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Tuesday, 20th June 1837.

I was awoke at 6 o'clock by Mamma, who told me that the Archbishop of Canterbury and Lord Conyngham
were here, and wished to see me. I got out of bed and went into my sitting-room (only in my
dressing-gown) and alone, and saw them. Lord Conyngham (the Lord Chamberlain) then acquainted
me that my poor Uncle, the King, was no more, and had expired at 12 minutes past 2 this morning,
and consequently that I am Queen. Lord Conyngham knelt down and kissed my hand, at the same
time delivering to me the official announcement of the poor King's demise. The Archbishop then
told me that the Queen was desirous that he should come and tell me the details of the last
moments of my poor good Uncle; he said that he had directed his mind to religion, and had died
in a perfectly happy, quiet state of mind, and was quite prepared for his death. He added that
the King's sufferings at the last were not very great but that there was a good deal of uneasiness.
Lord Conyngham, whom I charged to express my feelings of condolence and sorrow to the poor
Queen, returned directly to Windsor. I then went to my room and dressed.

Since it has pleased Providence to place me in this station, I shall do my utmost to fulfil
my duty towards my country; I am very young and perhaps in many, though not in all things,
inexperienced, but I am sure that very few have more real goodwill and more real desire to
do what is fit and right than I have.

Breakfasted, during which time good, faithful Stockmar came and talked to me. Wrote a letter
to dear Uncle Leopold and a few words to dear good Feodore. Received a letter from Lord Melbourne
in which he said he would wait upon me at a little before 9. At 9 came Lord Melbourne, whom
I saw in my room, and of course quite alone, as I shall always do all my Ministers. He kissed
my hand, and I then acquainted him that it had long been my intention to retain him and the
rest of the present Ministry at the head of affairs, and that it could not be in better hands
than his. He again then kissed my hand. He then read to me the Declaration which I was to read
to the Council, which he wrote himself, and which is a very fine one. I then talked with him
some little time longer, after which he left me. He was in full dress. I like him very much,
and feel confidence in him. He is a very straightforward, honest, clever and good man. I then
wrote a letter to the Queen. At about 11 Lord Melbourne came again to me, and spoke to me upon
various subjects. At about half-past 11 I went downstairs and held a Council in the red saloon.

I went in of course quite alone and remained seated the whole time. My two Uncles, the Dukes
of Cumberland and Sussex, and Lord Melbourne conducted me. The Declaration, the various forms,
the swearing in of the Privy Councillors, of which there were a great number present, and the
reception of some of the Lords of the Council, previous to the Council, in an adjacent room
(likewise alone) I subjoin here. I was not at all nervous and had the satisfaction of hearing
that people were satisfied with what I had done and how I had done it. Received after this,
audiences of Lord Melbourne, Lord John Russell, Lord Albemarle (Master of the Horse), and the
Archbishop of Canterbury, all in my room and alone. Saw Stockmar. Saw Clark, whom I named my
physician. Saw Mary. Wrote to Uncle Ernest. Saw Ernest Hohenlohe, who brought me a kind and
very feeling letter from the poor Queen. I feel very much for her, and really feel that the
poor good King was always so kind personally to me, that I should be ungrateful were I not
to recollect it and feel grieved at his death. The poor Queen is wonderfully composed now, I hear.

Wrote my journal. Took my dinner upstairs alone. Went downstairs. Saw Stockmar. At about twenty
minutes to 9 came Lord Melbourne and remained till near 10. I had a very important and a very
comfortable conversation with him. Each time I see him I feel more confidence in him; I find
him very kind in his manner too. Saw Stockmar. Went down and said good-night to Mamma, etc.
My dear Lehzen will always remain with me as my friend, but will take no situation about me,
and I think she is right.

[Pageheading: THE HOUSE OF COMMONS]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

WILTON CRESCENT, 22nd June 1837.

Lord John Russell[54] presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has the honour to report
that he presented to the House of Commons this day your Majesty's gracious Message.

He then moved an Address of Condolence and Congratulation, which was seconded by Sir Robert
Peel. Sir Robert Peel very properly took occasion to speak in terms of high admiration of the
deportment of your Majesty before the Privy Council on Tuesday. The Address was agreed to without
a dissentient voice, and your Majesty may rest assured that the House of Commons is animated
by a feeling of loyalty to the Throne, and of devotion to your Majesty.

[Footnote 54: Writing as Leader of the House of Commons.]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

(Undated--22nd or 23rd June 1837.)

MY DEAREST NIECE,--I am most grateful for your amiable letter and truly kind offer to come
and see me next week. Any day convenient to your Majesty will be agreeable to me, the sooner
the better, for I am equally anxious to see you again, and to express to you in person all
that I feel for you at this trying moment. If Monday will suit you I shall be ready to receive
you and your dear Mother on that day. My prayers are with you and my blessing follows you in
all you have to go through. My health is as well as it can be after the great exertions I have
suffered, and I try to keep up under my heavy trial and deep affliction.

My best wishes attend you, my dearest Niece, and I am for ever your Majesty's most affectionate
and faithful Friend, Aunt and Subject,

ADELAIDE.

[Pageheading: CONGRATULATIONS]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

PARIS, le 23 Juin 1837.

MADAME MA S[OE]UR,--J'ai appris avec une vive peine la perte que votre Majesté vient de faire
dans la personne de son très cher et bien aimé Oncle le Roi Guillaume IV. d'auguste et vénérable
mémoire. La vive et sincère amitié que je porte à votre Majesté, et à ceux qui lui sont chers,
les liens de parenté qui rapprochent nos deux familles par l'alliance de ma fille chérie avec
le Roi des Belges votre Oncle bien aimé, et enfin le souvenir qui m'est toujours bien cher
de la tendre amitié qui m'attachait au feu Prince votre Père, depuis que nous nous étions vus
en Amérique, il y a déjà trente-huit ans,[55] me déterminent à ne pas attendre les formalités
d'usage, pour offrir à votre Majesté mes félicitations sur son avènement au Trône de la Grande-Bretagne.
Il m'est doux de penser que l'heureuse direction que la Princesse votre excellente et bien
aimée Mère a si sagement donnée à votre jeune âge, vous met à portée de supporter dignement
le grand fardeau qui vous est échu. Je fais les v[oe]ux les plus sincères pour que la Providence
bénisse votre Règne, et qu'il soit une époque de bonheur et de prospérité pour les peuples
que vous êtes appelée a gouverner. Puissiez-vous aussi jouir longtemps de tout le bonheur personnel
que je vous souhaite du fond de mon c[oe]ur. Je serai toujours bien empressé de manifester
à votre Majesté tous les sentiments d'attachement et d'affection que je lui porte. Qu'elle
me permette d'y ajouter l'expression de la haute estime et de l'inviolable amitié avec lesquelles
je ne cesserai d'être, Madame ma S[oe]ur, de votre Majesté Le Bon Frère,

LOUIS PHILIPPE R.

    [Footnote 55: In 1799 the Duke of Kent was Commander-in-Chief
    in British North America.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 23rd June 1837.

MY BELOVED CHILD,--Your new dignities will not change or increase my old affection for you;
may Heaven assist you, and may I have the happiness of being able to be of use to you, and
to contribute to those successes in your new career for which I am so anxious. Your letter
of the 19th, written very shortly before the important event took place, gave me great satisfaction;
it showed me a temper of mind well calculated for the occasion. To see the difficulties of
the task without shrinking from them or feeling alarm, and to meet them with courage, is the
way to succeed. I have often seen that the confidence of success has been the cause of the
success itself, and you will do well to preserve that sentiment.

I have been most happy to learn that the swearing in of the Council passed so well. The Declaration
in the newspapers I find simple and appropriate. The translation in the papers says, "J'ai
été élevés en Angleterre." 1. I should advise to say as often as possible that you are born
in England. George III. gloried in this, and as none of your cousins are born in England, it
is your interest de faire reporter cela fortement. 2. You never can say too much in praise
of your country and its inhabitants. Two nations in Europe are really almost ridiculous in
their own exaggerated praises of themselves; these are the English and the French. Your being
very national is highly important, and as you happen to be born in England and never to have
left it a moment,[56] it would be odd enough if people tried to make out the contrary. 3. The
Established Church I also recommend strongly; you cannot, without pledging yourself to anything
particular, say too much on the subject. 4. Before you decide on anything important I should
be glad if you would consult me; this would also have the advantage of giving you time. In
politics most measures will come in time within a certain number of days; to retrace or back
out of a measure is on the contrary extremely difficult, and almost always injurious to the
highest authority.

    [Footnote 56: The Duke and Duchess of Kent were settled at
    Amorbach, in Leiningen, till a short time before the birth of
    their child, when they came to Kensington.]

[Pageheading: THE MINISTERS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

25th June 1837.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--Though I have an immense deal of business to do, I shall write you a few
lines to thank you for your kind and useful letter of the 23rd, which I have just received.
Your advice is always of the greatest importance to me.

Respecting Claremont, Stockmar will be able to explain to you the total impossibility of my
being out of London, as I must see my Ministers every day. I am very well, sleep well, and
drive every evening in the country; it is so hot that walking is out of the question. Before
I go further let me pause to tell you how fortunate I am to have at the head of the Government
a man like Lord Melbourne. He is of the greatest use to me both politically and privately.

I have seen almost all my other Ministers, and do regular, hard, but to me delightful, work
with them. It is to me the greatest pleasure to do my duty for my country and my people, and
no fatigue, however great, will be burdensome to me if it is for the welfare of the nation.
Stockmar will tell you all these things. I have reason to be highly pleased with all my Ministers,
and hope to God that the Elections[57] may be favourable, as I well know that the present Ministry
is the best and most moderate we can have.

Do not, my dearly beloved Uncle, fear for my health; I shall take good care of it. I beg your
advice on the enclosed paper.

Ever your devoted and grateful Niece and affectionate Child,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 57: At that time rendered necessary by the demise of
    the Crown.]

[Pageheading: DELIBERATION ADVISED]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 27th June 1837.

MY DEAR CHILD,--... Now I must touch on another subject which is of vital importance for you
and your comfort, viz. the habits of business which you will contract now. The best plan is
to devote certain hours to it; if you do that, you will get through it with great ease. I think
you would do well to tell your Ministers that for the present you would be ready to receive
those who should wish to see you between the hours of eleven and half-past one. This will not
plague you much, and will be sufficient in most cases for the usual business that is to be
transacted.

I shall add to this a piece of advice. Whenever a question is of some importance, it should
not be decided on the day when it is submitted to you. Whenever it is not an urgent one, I
make it a rule not to let any question be forced upon my immediate decision; it is really not
doing oneself justice de décider des questions sur le pouce. And even when in my mind I am
disposed to accede, still I always keep the papers with me some little time before I return
them. The best mode for you will be, that each Minister should bring his box with him, and
when he submits to you the papers, explain them to you. Then you will keep the papers, either
to think yourself upon it or to consult somebody, and either return them the next time you
see the Minister to whom they belong, or send them to him. Good habits formed now may for ever
afterwards be kept up, and will become so natural to you that you will not find them at all
fatiguing.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

KENSINGTON PALACE, 29th June 1837.

The Queen has received Lord Melbourne's communication, and thinks, as Prince Ernest of Hesse
goes to the funeral, it would be proper the Prince of Leiningen should do just the same. The
Queen requests that Lord Melbourne will be so good as to take care that the Prince of Leiningen
is informed as to the proper dress he ought to wear on the occasion.

Lord Albemarle mentioned yesterday to the Queen, that all the ladies' saddle-horses, including
the Queen-Dowager's own favourite horses, belonged to the Queen; but it strikes her that it
would be well if the Queen was to give the Queen-Dowager the choice of two or three of her
own horses, and that she might keep them. The Queen would wish Lord Melbourne to give her his
opinion on this subject....

[Pageheading: STOCKMAR]

[Pageheading: SUBJECTS FOR STUDY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 30th June 1837.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--... I am glad to see that you are so much pleased with Lord Melbourne. I
believe him to be as you think him. His character is a guarantee which is valuable, and remember
that cleverness and talent, without an honest heart and character, will never do for your Minister.
I shall name nobody, but what I said just now applies to some people you have recently seen.

I am so happy that you enter into the important affairs which Providence has entrusted to you
with so much interest and spirit; if you continue you will be sure of success, and your own
conscience will give you the most delightful and satisfactory feelings. To be National is the
great thing, and I was sure you would agree with what I said repeatedly to you on this vital
subject, and you will be certain in this way of the love of the nation you govern.

I recommend to your kind attention what Stockmar will think it his duty to tell you; he will
never press anything, never plague you with anything, without the thorough conviction that
it is indispensable for your welfare. I can guarantee his independence of mind and disinterestedness;
nothing makes an impression upon him but what his experience makes him feel to be of importance
for you. I am delighted with your plan. You will recollect that I pressed upon you repeatedly
how necessary it was for you to continue your studies on a more extended scale, more appropriate
to the station you were destined once to fill. No one is better qualified to direct those studies
for the next few years than Stockmar, few people possess more general information, and very,
very few have been like him educated, as it were, by fate itself since 1816. There is no branch
of information in which he may not prove useful--

(1) History, considered in a practical and philosophical way; (2) International Law and everything
connected with it; (3) Political Economy, an important branch nowadays; (4) Classic studies;
(5) belles lettres in general; (6) Physical Science in all its branches, etc., etc.--the list
would be very long if I were to enumerate it all. The sooner you do this the better; in all
countries and at all times men like Stockmar have filled similar situations, even in the most
bigoted and jealous countries, such as Spain, Austria, etc. You will have him in this case
constantly near you without anybody having the right of finding fault with it, and to be useful
to you he should be near you. Stockmar would have the immense advantage, for so young a Queen,
to be a living dictionary of all matters scientific and politic that happened these thirty
years, which to you is of the greatest importance, because you must study the political history
of at least the last thirty-seven years more particularly. I had begun something of the sort
with you, even so far back as George II.; you will do well to go through the reign of George
III., and to follow the various circumstances which brought on finally the present state of
affairs....

My letter grows too long, and you will not have time to read it; I will therefore come to an
end, remaining ever, my beloved Victoria, your faithfully attached Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: SPANISH AFFAIRS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

3rd July 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had the happiness of receiving your kind letter of 30th June yesterday,
and hasten to thank you for it. Your dear and kind letters, full of kind and excellent advice,
will always be of the greatest use to me, and will always be my delight. You may depend upon
it that I shall profit by your advice, as I have already so often done.

I was sure you would be of my opinion relative to Lord Melbourne. Indeed, dearest Uncle, nothing
is to be done without a good heart and an honest mind; I have, alas! seen so much of bad hearts
and dishonest and double minds, that I know how to value and appreciate real worth.

All is going on well at present, and the elections promise to be favourable. God grant they
may be so! I had a very long and highly interesting conversation with Palmerston on Saturday,
about Turkey, Russia, etc., etc. I trust something may be done for my sister Queens. They have
got a Constitution in Spain at length, and the Cortes have done very well. We hope also to
conclude a treaty of commerce with the Spaniards shortly, which would be an immense thing.

If you could get my kind and dear friend Louis Philippe, whom I do so respect, and for whom
I have a great affection, to do something for poor Spain, it would be of great use.

I am quite penetrated by the King's kindness in sending good old General Baudrand[58] and the
Duc d'Elchingen[59] over to compliment me; Baudrand did it very well, and with much good feeling.
In Portugal, affairs look very black, I grieve to say. They have no money, and the Chartists
want to bring about another counter-revolution, which would be fatal to the poor Queen's interests,
I fear.

That you approve my plan about Stockmar I am delighted to hear.

I hope to go into Buckingham Palace very shortly after the funeral.

Now, dearest Uncle, I must invite you en forme. I should be most delighted if you, dearest
Aunt Louise, and Leopold (j'insiste) could come about the middle or end of August. Then I should
beg you would stay a little longer than usual, a fortnight at least. You could bring as many
gentlemen, ladies, bonnes, etc., etc., as you pleased, and I should be too happy and proud
to have you under my own roof....

    [Footnote 58: General Comte Baudrand (1774-1848).]

    [Footnote 59: Son of Marshal Ney.]

The Earl of Liverpool to Baron Stockmar.

5th July 1837.

Went about half-past ten o'clock to Apsley House, and told the Duke of Wellington the whole
of my communication with the Queen, Duchess of Kent, and Sir John Conroy on 15th June, also
of my communication subsequently with Lord Melbourne, all of which he very much approved of.
He said that he was quite sure that the Queen would find Lord Melbourne an honourable man,
and one in whom Her Majesty might put confidence; that he was a man apt to treat matters too
lightly, or, as he expressed it, a poco curante, but in the main an honest and an honourable
man. Upon my speaking to him of the kind and paternal conduct of King Leopold towards his Niece,
he said that he was fully persuaded of this, and should at all and any time be ready to uphold
it by his approbation, but that he had no immediate connection with the Press, whose attacks
indeed he held very cheap, though they were frequently very offensive. He then asked me whether
it was not true that the Queen had thought of some reviews at which she would appear on horseback.
I said there had been some talk of it. He desired me to say that he thought this would be very
dangerous, that she had much better do this in an open carriage, as no one except such as himself
knew how difficult it was to get steady riding horses, and besides that, she could not be attended
by any female, and that this would appear indelicate.

[Pageheading: QUEEN ADELAIDE]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 7th July 1837.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--I must, before I leave this dear Castle, once more express to you the grateful
sense I entertain for the kind treatment I have experienced from you since it has pleased our
heavenly Father to put you in possession of it. You have contributed much to my comfort under
all the painful and distressing circumstances of this time of woe, and I assure you that I
ever shall remember it with sincere gratitude.

I hope that you continue quite well and do not suffer from the exertions and duties of your
new position. My best wishes and prayers attend you on all occasions, for I shall be for the
rest of my life devoted and attached to you as your most affectionate Aunt and Subject,

ADELAIDE.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

KENSINGTON PALACE, 10th July 1837.

The Queen regrets very much to hear of Lord Melbourne's indisposition, and trusts it will be
of no duration.

The Queen has just seen the Lord Chamberlain and has given him all her orders. The Lord Chamberlain
says that he will do everything in his power to facilitate the Queen's going into Buckingham
Palace on Thursday.

The Queen fears that there may have been some mistake with respect to the Chapter of the Garter,
for Lord Conyngham,[60] as well as several others, imagined it would be held on Wednesday instead
of Friday. The Queen requests Lord Melbourne to rectify this mistake, as it is the Queen's
intention to hold the Chapter on Friday.

    [Footnote 60: The Lord Chamberlain.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

11th July 1837.

MY DEAREST, BEST UNCLE,--... I have got very little time and very little to say. I really and
truly go into Buckingham Palace the day after to-morrow, but I must say, though I am very glad
to do so, I feel sorry to leave for ever my poor old birthplace....

25th.--I shall not go out of town, I think, before the 20th or thereabouts of next month. Windsor
requires thorough cleaning, and I must say I could not think of going in sooner after the poor
King's death. Windsor always appears very melancholy to me, and there are so many sad associations
with it. These will vanish, I daresay, if I see you there soon after my arrival there.

I have very pleasant large dinners every day. I invite my Premier generally once a week to
dinner as I think it right to show publicly that I esteem him and have confidence in him, as
he has behaved so well. Stockmar is of this opinion and is his great admirer....

[Pageheading: MADAME DE LIEVEN]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 12th July 1837.

... Having still a few moments before a special messenger sets off, I take advantage of it
to add a few words. By all I can hear, there are many intrigues on foot in England at this
moment. Princess Lieven[61] and another individual recently imported from her country seem
to be very active in what concerns them not; beware of them. A rule which I cannot sufficiently
recommend is, never to permit people to speak on subjects concerning yourself or your affairs,
without your having yourself desired them to do so. The moment a person behaves improperly
on this subject, change the conversation, and make the individual feel that he has made a mistake....
People will certainly try to speak to you on your own personal affairs; decline it boldly,
and they will leave you alone....

Now I conclude with my warmest wishes for your happiness. Ever, my dear Victoria, your faithfully
attached Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

[Footnote 61: The Princess Dorothea de Benckendorff married the Count de Lieven at fifteen;
in 1812, he became Russian Minister (and later Ambassador) in London, whither she accompanied
him. She was a woman of extraordinary cleverness, enjoying the confidence of George IV., Liverpool,
Canning, Castlereagh, and Wellington. Inspiring the efforts, and even composing the despatches
of her husband, she became herself the confidential correspondent of Nesselrode, Esterhazy,
Posso di Borgo, Guizot, and Lord Aberdeen. In 1834, the Lievens returned to St Petersburg,
where the Emperor Nicholas, though indifferent to the society of women of talent, showed her
special marks of regard. Her husband died at Rome, in January 1838, and she established herself
in Paris, afterwards seeking a home in England during the troubles of 1848. Returning to Paris,
her salon became again the resort of diplomatists, politicians, and men of the world. She died
in January 1857.

Madame de Lieven about this time told Greville that she had had an audience of the Queen, "who
was very civil and gracious, but timid and embarrassed, and talked of nothing but commonplaces";
and Greville adds that the Queen "had probably been told that the Princess was an intrigante,
and was afraid of committing herself."

Madame de Lieven wrote to Lord Aberdeen on the 30th July 1837:--

J'ai vu la Reine deux fois, je l'ai vue seule, et je l'ai vue dans la société du soir, et avec
son Premier Ministre. Elle a un aplomb, un air de commandement, de dignité, qui avec son visage
enfantin, sa petite taille, et son joli sourire, forment certainement le spectacle le plus
extraordinaire qu'il soit possible de se figurer. Elle est d'une extrême réserve dans son discours.
On croit que la prudence est une de ses premières qualités. Lord Melbourne a auprès d'elle
un air d'amour, de contentement, de vanité même, et tout cela mêlé avec beaucoup de respect,
des attitudes très à son aise, une habitude de première place dans son salon, de la rêverie,
de la gaieté, vous voyez tout cela. La Reine est pleine d'aimables sourires pour lui.

La société le soir n'était composée que du household de la Reine, de tout le household de la
Duchesse de Kent (moins la famille Conroy, qui n'approche pas du Palais), et de quelques étrangers.
La Duchesse de Kent est parfaitement mécontente,--elle m'en a même parlé. Je doute que la mère
et la fllle habitent longtemps sous le même toit. Quant à Lord Melbourne, il me semble que
la Duchesse le déteste. Il est évident qu'il est dans la possession entière et exclusive de
la confiance de la Reine, et que ses ressentiments, comme ses peines passées, sont confiés
sans réserve à son Premier Ministre....]

[Pageheading: PARLIAMENT PROROGUED]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

18th July 1837.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--... I have been so busy, I can say but two words more, which are that I
prorogued Parliament yesterday in person, was very well received, and am not at all tired to-day,
but quite frisky. There is to be no review this year, as I was determined to have it only if
I could ride, and as I have not ridden for two years, it was better not. Believe me, always,
your devoted Niece,

    VICTORIA R.

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

STANHOPE STREET, 22nd July 1837.

... With regard to Count Orloff,[62] your Majesty will probably renew to him, on his taking
leave, the assurances which your Majesty has already given, of your desire to cement and maintain
the friendly alliance which subsists between the two Crowns; and an expression might be repeated
of the pleasure which your Majesty has derived from the selection of a person who possesses
the confidence and esteem of the Emperor so fully as Count Orloff is known to do.

It might, perhaps, be as well to avoid any allusion to your Majesty's not being personally
acquainted with the Emperor, or anything that might be construed into an invitation to that
Sovereign to come to England, because Viscount Palmerston has reason to believe that any such
hint would be eagerly caught at, while at the same time such a visit does not, under all circumstances,
seem to be a thing particularly to be desired....

    [Footnote 62: The Russian Ambassador.]

[Pageheading: DISCRETION ADVISED]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 24th July 1837.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--... I hear that the Levée went off very well, and I have no doubt that the
Drawing-Room did the same. Your spirit in all these new and trying proceedings makes me happy
beyond expression. Believe me, with courage and honesty, you will get on beautifully and successfully.
The firmness you displayed at the beginning of your reign will be for your quiet of the utmost
importance. People must come to the opinion it is of no use intriguing, because when her mind
is once made up, and she thinks a thing right, no earthly power will make her change. To these
qualities must be added one which is of great importance, this is discretion; humble as it
seems, it has often brought about successes in which talent failed and genius did not succeed.
Discretion in the great affairs of the world does wonders, and safety depends frequently and
is chiefly derived from it....

Now I must quickly conclude, with the prayer that you will not permit anybody, be it even your
Prime Minister, to speak to you on matters that concern you personally, without your having
expressed the wish of its being done. You have no idea of the importance of this for your peace
and comfort and safety. I always act on this principle, and I can say with great success.

Believe me ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 29th July 1837.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--Your dear letter of the 24th inst. is, amongst so many kind letters, almost
the kindest I yet received from your dear hands. My happiness and my greatest pride will always
be, to be a tender and devoted father to you, my beloved child, and to watch over you and stand
by you with heart and soul as long as the heart which loves you so sincerely will beat.

I have no doubt that Lord Melbourne will always do everything in his power to be useful to
you. His position is become extremely happy; after having been, under the late King at least,
in an awkward position, he is now sure of enjoying your confidence and sincere support. If
the elections turn out favourably to the Ministry, it will, I hope, give them the means of
trying to conciliate the great mass of the moderate Tories, who from their nature and in consequence
of their opinions are safe and desirable supporters of the Crown. The two extremes will give
them trouble, and the ultra-Tories appear to me to be even the more unreasonable of the two.

I am most happy to see you on your guard against Princess Lieven and such-like people. Your
life amongst intriguers and tormented with intrigues has given you an experience on this important
subject which you will do well not to lose sight of, as it will unfortunately often reproduce
itself, though the names and manner of carrying on the thing may not be the same.

I also think Windsor a little melancholy, but I believe that one likes it more and more, as
the Park in particular is uncommonly beautiful. We shall try our best to enliven it by our
presence, and probably soon after your arrival. I am most happy to see you so spirited and
happy in your new position; it will go a great way to ensure your success, and your spirit
and courage will never be de trop.

Now I will conclude for the day, not to bore you, and beg you always to believe me, my dear
and beloved Victoria, your devoted Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: PRINCESS HOHENLOHE]

The Princess Hohenlohe to Queen Victoria.

LANGENBURG, 31st July 1837.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--On arriving here, I found your dear letter of the 9th of this month;
and some days ago I received the one of the 16th. Many, many thanks for them both; it is indeed
kind of you to write to me now when you have so much to do. You have no idea what a feeling
it is, to hear and read of you, and to think that it is you, my own dear sister, who are the
object of general observation, and, I may say, admiration; it is sometimes like a dream. For
those who are near you it is quite different than for me, who have not seen you yet in your
new position, but must represent to myself all through the report of others. The description
in the papers of your proroguing Parliament I read with great interest; it must have been an
imposing moment for you, your standing for the first time in your life in the middle of that
assembly where the interests and welfare of your country are discussed and decided upon. It
is with pride, pleasure, and anxiety I think of you at the description of such scenes and occurrences.
I saw too by the papers that your incognito at the Opera was not quite kept as you wished it....

[Pageheading: THE ELECTIONS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 1st August 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--... I should be most happy to "peep once" into your country, and wish that
it could be.

With respect to Politics, Lord Melbourne told me this morning that he thinks the Lords will
be more moderate and reasonable next Session. The Duke of Wellington made a speech shortly
before the Dissolution of Parliament, in which he said that he wished as much as the Government
did to pass the questions now pending.

You do not think Alexander[63] near handsome enough in my opinion; you know, ladies are much
better judges. He is somewhat colossal, I own, but very proportionate and good-looking, I think.
I am all impatience to hear more about all this, and when you imagine the marriage will take place.

I have resumed my singing lessons with Lablache[64] twice a week, which form an agreeable recreation
in the midst of all the business I have to do. He is such a good old soul, and greatly pleased
that I go on with him. I admire the music of the Huguenots very much, but do not sing it, as
I prefer Italian to French for singing greatly. I have been learning in the beginning of the
season many of your old favourites, which I hope to sing with you when we meet. I wish I could
keep Lablache to sing with us, but he will be gone by that time, I greatly fear.

Now farewell, my beloved Uncle. Give my affectionate love to my dear Aunt, and believe me always,
your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

J'embrasse Léopold et Philippe.

[Footnote 63: Prince Alexander of Würtemberg, betrothed to Princess Marie of Orleans, daughter
of Louis Philippe. She died 10th January 1839. See Letter of Queen Victoria to the King of
the Belgians, 11th January 1839.]

    [Footnote 64: See ante, p. 50. (Ch. V, Footnote 7)]

[Pageheading: THE ELECTIONS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

9th August 1837.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--... With respect to the Elections, they are, I'm thankful to say, rather
favourable, though not quite so much so as we could wish. But upon the whole we shall have
as good a House as we had, and, I hope (as Lord Melbourne does also), a more moderate one than
the last one. The Irish Elections are very favourable to us; we have gained six in the English
boroughs, and lost, I grieve to say, several in the counties.

The country is very quiet, and I have good reason to believe all will do very well.

The King of Würtemberg is to arrive to-night, under the name of Count Teck, and wishes to be
in strict incognito. He comes on purpose to see me; you know he is my second cousin--his mother[65]
was sister to Queen Caroline and daughter to my grand-aunt.[66] I shall give the King a large
dinner on Friday and a little concert after it....

    [Footnote 65: Queen Augusta of Würtemberg.]

    [Footnote 66: Augusta, Duchess of Brunswick, sister of George
    III.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

ENDSLEIGH, 15th August 1837.

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has the honour to lay before
your Majesty a general statement of the result of the elections, which, with the exception
of one or two doubtful counties in Ireland, may be said to be completed....

It is not to be denied that this near balance of parties makes the task of conducting the government
difficult for any Ministry. On the other hand, the circumstances of the country do not present
any extraordinary difficulty, and were any such to arise, the general composition of the new
House of Commons affords a security that the maintenance of the Constitution and the welfare
of the country would be permanent objects to the majority of its Members.[67]

Lord John Russell had some time ago the honour of stating to your Majesty that the return of
Mr Fox Maule for Perthshire, and of Mr Hume for Middlesex, were hardly to be expected. In this
as in many other instances the superior organisation of the Tory party have enabled them to
gain the appearance of a change of opinion, which has not in fact taken place.

Lord John Russell is sorry to add that bribery, intimidation, and drunkenness have been very
prevalent at the late elections, and that in many cases the disposition to riot has only been
checked by the appearance of the Military, who have in all cases conducted themselves with
great temper and judgment.

    [Footnote 67: While the extreme Radicals were in several cases
    defeated, the number of O'Connell's followers was decidedly
    increased. The general balance of parties was not much
    affected, though the complaint made by Mr Roebuck, the Radical
    Member for Bath, in the last days of William IV.'s reign, that
    there was no Government, and that the machinery of legislation
    was at a dead stop, was no longer warranted.]

[Pageheading: LEAVING WINDSOR]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

It is usual for the Sovereign to receive any Peer who may be desirous of an Audience, without
any other person being present. But if the Peer who is thus admitted to the honour of an Audience
should enter upon political topics, it has been the custom for your Majesty's predecessors
merely to hear what is offered, and not to give any opinion, or to enter into any discussion
or conversation upon such topics.

Should your Majesty be pleased to grant Lord Coventry's request of an Audience, perhaps the
most convenient course will be that the Lord-in-Waiting should signify to him, direct from
Windsor, your Majesty's pleasure.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.[68]

WINDSOR CASTLE, 19th September 1837. (20 m(inutes) p(ast) 11.)

MY DEAREST, MOST BELOVED UNCLE,--One line to express to you, imperfectly, my thanks for all
your very great kindness to me, and my great, great grief at your departure! God knows how
sad, how forlorn, I feel! How I shall miss you, my dearest, dear Uncle! every, every where!
How I shall miss your conversation! How I shall miss your protection out riding! Oh! I feel
very, very sad, and cannot speak of you both without crying!

Farewell, my beloved Uncle and father! may Heaven bless and protect you; and do not forget
your most affectionate, devoted, and attached Niece and Child,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 68: Written on the conclusion of a visit of the King
    of the Belgians to England.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd October 1837.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--... I am quite sad to leave this fine place, where, if it had not been for
the meeting of Parliament so early this year, I would have remained till November. I have passed
such a pleasant time here, the pleasantest summer I have ever passed in my life; I have had
the great happiness of having you and my beloved Aunt here, I have had pleasant people staying
with me, and I have had delicious rides which have done me more good than anything. It will
be such a break-up of our little circle! Besides my own people, Lord Melbourne and Lord Palmerston
are the only people who have been staying here, and this little party was very social and agreeable.
The Princess Augusta of Saxony[69] has been here for two nights; she is neither young nor handsome,
but a very kind good person.

The news from Portugal are bad which I got this morning. The Civil War is ended, and the Chartists
have been completely defeated; this is sad enough, but I was fearful of it: a counter-revolution
never does well.[70]

En revanche, the news from Spain are by far better....

Believe me always, in haste, your devoted and affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 69: Daughter of King Frederick Augustus of Saxony.]

    [Footnote 70: On July 1st a new Ministry had come into
    power in Portugal. The finances of the country were in great
    confusion, a military insurrection broke out in the North at
    Braga, the Ministry resigned, and a new Ministry came into
    office in August. On the 18th August, the Duke of Terceira,
    followed by many persons of distinction, joined the
    insurgents, and, establishing himself at Mafra, advanced upon
    Lisbon with the Chartist troops, issuing a proclamation of
    provisional regency. A Convention was eventually signed, and
    the Cortes proceeded to discuss measures of Constitutional
    Reform.]

[Pageheading: RECEPTION AT BRIGHTON]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

6th October 1837.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and in acknowledging your Majesty's
gracious communication, of yesterday returns his thanks for the very lively account which your
Majesty has given of the journey and the entrance into Brighton. Lord Melbourne entirely partakes
in the wish your Majesty has been graciously pleased to express that he had been there to witness
the scene; but your Majesty will at once perceive that it was better that he was not, as in
that case Lord Melbourne would have been accused of an attempt to take a political advantage
of the general enthusiasm and to mix himself and the Government with your Majesty's personal
popularity. Lord Melbourne fears that for some time your Majesty will find yourself somewhat
incommoded by the desire, which naturally prevails amongst all ranks and classes, to obtain
an opportunity of seeing your Majesty....

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 9th October 1837.

... I have also told Stockmar to try to settle something for regular safe communication; in
quiet times like the present, one a week would be sufficient. You know now that all letters
are read, and that should not be always the case with ours. There is, however, one thing about
which I think it right to warn you. This way of reading people's letters is often taken advantage
of by the writers of them, who are not so ignorant of the thing as is imagined to write the
very subject which they wish to convey to the ears of persons without compromising themselves.
I will give you an example: we are still plagued by Prussia concerning those fortresses; now,
to tell the Prussian Government many things, which we should not like to tell them officially,
the Minister is going to write a despatch to our man at Berlin, sending it by post; the Prussians
are sure to read it, and to learn in this way what we wish them to hear. The diplomats in England
may resort to this same mode of proceeding to injure people, to calumniate, and to convey to
your knowledge such things as they may hope to have the effect of injuring some people they
may fear, in your eyes. I tell you the trick, that you should be able to guard against it;
it is of importance, and I have no doubt will be resorted to by various political people....
Ever, my dearest Victoria, your faithfully devoted Uncle and Friend,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND FRANCE]

[Pageheading: LOUIS PHILIPPE'S POLICY]

[Pageheading: COUNT MOLÉ]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

TRIANON, 19th October 1837.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... There is a great disposition here to be on the best possible terms
with England. As it has but too often happened that the diplomatic agents of the two countries
have drawn, or been believed to draw, different ways, I recommended strongly to Count Molé[71]
to give strong and clear instructions to his people, particularly at Madrid, Lisbon, and Athens....
He is going to read them to Lord Granville, and also to communicate as much as possible all
the despatches of the French diplomats to the English Government. This will be a proof of confidence,
and it will besides have the advantage of giving often useful information, enabling thereby
the English Government to hear two opinions instead of one. It cannot be denied that the idea
that the Plenipotentiaries of the two countries were following two different lines of policy
has been hurtful to the causes of the two Queens in the Peninsula. To put a stop to this double
action is the only benefit which the Queens will at present derive from a better understanding
between England and France; but as it is, it will be still of some importance to them, and
take away from the different political parties the possibility of using the pretended misunderstanding
against the Government of the Queens. I trust that you will tell your Ministers to meet this
friendly disposition with frankness and kindness. The wish of the King here is, to have matters
concerted between the Plenipotentiaries of both countries. In this way it would become difficult
for the parties in Spain or Portugal to say that the two Plenipotentiaries support different
candidates for Ministerial power, and the division in the parties connected with the Queens
might be in this manner prevented or reconciled. Many and many are the ill-natured hints thrown
out against the King's policy here, and because he is clever, he is suspected of having ambitious
schemes without end; it may not be without some importance to set this, in your mind at least,
to rights. Whatever may have been the King's views immediately after the revolution of July[72]
I will not decide; perhaps he may a moment have wished to be able to do something for France.
Supposing this for the sake of argument to have been so, two months of his reign were sufficient
to show him that the great question was not to conquer territories or foreign influence, but
to save Monarchy. He saw clearly that though he might begin a war, necessarily it would soon
degenerate into a war of propaganda, and that he and his family would be the first victims
of it. His struggle has constantly been to strengthen his Government, to keep together or create
anew the elements indispensable for a Monarchical Government, and this struggle is far from
being at its end, and most probably the remainder of his life will be devoted to this important
task; and whatever may be the more lively disposition of the Duke of Orleans, great part of
his reign if he comes to the throne, and perhaps the whole of it, will, bon gré mal gré, take
the same turn. That it should be so is very natural, because of what use would be some foreign
provinces if they would only add to the difficulty of governing the old? Therefore, knowing
as I do all the proceedings of the King and his Cabinet, even more fully than I do those of
your Government; seeing constantly in the most unreserved manner the whole of the despatches;
knowing as the nearest neighbour the system that they constantly followed up towards us, I
must say that no one is more against acquiring influence in foreign States, or even getting
burthened with family aggrandisement in them, than he. He rejected most positively the marriage
of Joinville with Donna Maria because he will not have anything to do with Portugal. He rejects
a mille times the idea of a future union of the Queen of Spain with Aumale, because he will
not have a son where it is not his intention to support him.

His fear of being drawn into a real intervention has been the cause of his having been so anxious
not to have a French Legion in Spain. He may be right or wrong on this subject--I do not decide
this, as I was of a different opinion last year; but his fear of being drawn too far, like
a man whose clothes get caught by a steam-engine, is natural enough. His dislike to the ultra-Liberals
in the Peninsula is also very natural, because they uphold principles of Government which render
Monarchy impossible, and the application of which to France would be the ruin of the King.
England, from the peculiarity of its position, can do many things which in France would upset
everything.... I must close my letter, and shall answer yours to-morrow. God bless you! Ever,
my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 71: French Premier and Foreign Secretary.]

    [Footnote 72: 1830.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

PAVILION, BRIGHTON, 25th October 1837.

... Now, dearest Uncle, I must speak to you un peu de Politique. I made Lord Melbourne read
the political part of your letter. He wished me to communicate to you part of the contents
of a letter of Lord Granville's which we received yesterday. Lord Granville complains a good
deal of Molé,[73] and says, that though he is apparently very cordial and friendly towards
us, and talks of his desire that we should be on a better footing as to our foreign Ministers
than we have hitherto been, that whenever Lord Granville urges him to do anything decisive
(to use Lord G.'s own words) "he shrinks from the discussion," says he must have time to reflect
before he can give any answer, and evades giving any reply, whenever anything of importance
is required. This, you see, dear Uncle, is not satisfactory. I merely tell you this, as I think
you would like to know what Molé tells our Ambassador; this differs from what he told you.
What you say about Louis Philippe I am sure is very true; his situation is a very peculiar
and a very difficult one....

    [Footnote 73: See ante, p. 93. (Ch. VI, Footnote 71)]

[Pageheading: THE FRENCH IN AFRICA]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

TRIANON, 27th October 1837.

... Political matters I shall not touch upon to-day; there is nothing very particular except
the taking of Constantin.[74] The Duc de Nemours has greatly distinguished himself. I am sorry
to see that in England people are sometimes sufficiently absurd to be jealous of these French
conquests. Nothing indeed can be more absurd, as nothing is of greater importance to the peace
of Europe than that a powerful and military nation like the French should have this outlet
for their love of military display. If one had named a council of wise men to fix upon a spot
where this might be done with the least mischief to the rest of the world, one should have
named the coast of Africa. By their being there they will render to civilisation a country
which for about 800 years has been growing worse and worse, and which was in the times of the
Romans one of the richest provinces. It settles, besides, upon the French a constant petite
guerre with the natives, which is the very thing that will do them good.

    [Footnote 74: The French losses amounted to 19 officers and 86
    men killed, with 38 officers and 468 men wounded. The
    French Government had failed in its efforts for an amicable
    arrangement with Achmet Bey, and it appeared probable that the
    Turkish fleet would also oppose them. The commander, however,
    merely landed some men at Tripoli, and the French success was
    complete.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 19th November 1837.

... Now, dearest Uncle, before I say anything more, I will answer the various questions in
your letter, which I have communicated to Lord Melbourne and Lord Palmerston. (1) With respect
to Ferdinand's question to you, it is impossible for us to say beforehand what we shall do
in such an emergency; it depends so entirely on the peculiar circumstances of the moment that
we cannot say what we should do. You know, dear Uncle, that the fleet has orders to protect
the King and Queen in case they should be in any personal danger. As to Lord Howard,[75] though
what you say about him is true enough, it would not do to recall him at present; it would give
Bois le Comte[76] all the advantage he wishes for, and which would be injurious to our interests
and influence.

(2) With regard to Spain, a very decided mention is made of the Queen herself in the speech
which is to be delivered by me to-morrow in the House of Lords.

We have great reason to know that, of late, the Queen has positively declared her intention
to remain at Madrid to the very last.

Villiers'[77] conduct has been, I fear, much misrepresented, for his own opinions are not at
all those of the ultra-Liberal kind; and his only aim has been, to be on good terms with the
Spanish Ministry for the time being.

(3) Concerning France, I need not repeat to you, dear Uncle, how very anxious we all are to
be upon the best and most friendly terms with her, and to co-operate with her.

    [Footnote 75: Lord Howard de Walden, British Minister at
    Lisbon.]

    [Footnote 76: French Minister at Madrid.]

    [Footnote 77: British Minister at Madrid, afterwards fourth
    Earl of Clarendon, and twice Foreign Secretary.]

[Pageheading: CLOSE OF THE SESSION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 25th December 1837.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--... You will, I am sure, be happy to hear that this Session is happily closed,
and that the whole has gone off very satisfactorily, much more so even than any of us could
hope. I went on Saturday to the House of Lords to give my Assent to the Civil List Bill. I
shall return to town on the 16th of January, when Parliament meets again; it meets sooner than
it was at first intended it should, on account of the affairs of Canada.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.[78]

LAEKEN, 26th December 1837.

MY DEAREST CHILD,--You were somewhat irritable when you wrote to me!... Affairs stand now as
follows: the studies at Bonn take the whole of April, and may be concluded at the beginning
of May. From May till the end of August, if you approved of the visit, the time should be utilisé.
A séjour at Coburg would not be of much use; here we are generally absent in the summer. To
confide therefore the young gentleman to his Uncle Mensdorff[79] for three months, would give
him so much time for some manly accomplishments, which do no harm to a young man. To make him
enter the Service would not do at all. What you say about his imbibing principles of a political
nature, there is no great fear of that. First of all, Prague is not a town where politics are
at all agitated; these topics are very rarely touched upon; besides, Albert is clever, and
it is not at the eleventh hour that anybody in three months will make him imbibe political
principles. Perhaps you will turn in your mind what you think on the subject, and communicate
me the result of it....

    [Footnote 78: This letter refers to the course of study which
    Prince Albert was about to pursue.]

    [Footnote 79: Count Emmanuel de Mensdorff-Pouilly, who
    married, in 1804, Sophia, Princess of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld.]

[Pageheading: CANADA]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

27th December 1837.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and acquaints your Majesty that he
has this morning received a letter from the Speaker[80] consenting to remain until Whitsuntide.
This is inconvenient enough, but the delay relieves your present embarrassment upon this head,
and puts off changes until a period of the Session when public affairs will be more decisively
settled.

Lord Melbourne is sorry to have to inform your Majesty that there was a good deal of difference
of opinion yesterday in the Cabinet upon the affairs of Canada.[81] All are of opinion that
strong measures should be taken for the repression of the insurrection, but some, and more
particularly Lord Howick, think that these measures of vigour should be accompanied by measures
of amendment and conciliation. We are to have a Cabinet again upon the subject on Wednesday
next, when Lord Melbourne hopes that some practical result will be come to without serious
difference.

    [Footnote 80: Mr James Abercromby, afterwards Lord
    Dunfermline. He remained in the Chair till 1839. He had little
    hold over the House, and many regrettable scenes occurred.]

    [Footnote 81: See Introductory Note, p. 56. (to Ch. VI)]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 28th December 1837.

The Queen received Lord Melbourne's communication yesterday evening, and is glad to see that
the Speaker consents to remain a little while longer, though, as Lord Melbourne says, it is
still very inconvenient.

The Queen regrets that there should have been any difference of opinion with respect to Canada,
but hopes with Lord Melbourne that some final arrangement may be come to next Wednesday.

The Queen is very sorry to learn that Lord Melbourne will be detained in London until Saturday.
She omitted to ask Lord Melbourne when he thinks it would be convenient for Lord Palmerston
to come down to Windsor for a few days, as it is the Queen's wish to ask him in the course
of the Recess. The Queen is very thankful to Lord Melbourne for his kind enquiries after her
health; she is sorry to say she had one of her bad headaches yesterday, but feels very well
this morning and thinks a drive will quite cure her.

[Pageheading: ARMY ESTIMATES]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 29th December 1837.

The Queen received Lord Melbourne's two letters yesterday evening, and another this morning,
enclosing one from Lord Duncannon.[82] The Queen is very much gratified by the kind expressions
in the letter she got last night; she is grieved to see Lord Melbourne is so much oppressed
with business.

The Queen thinks Lord Melbourne has acted with the greatest judgment with respect to Sir J.
Conroy,[83] and highly approves the course he intends pursuing.

The Queen regrets that there should be so much difficulty with respect to the Report of the
Army Estimates, but fervently trusts that no serious difficulties will arise from it; she will
be very anxious to talk about this and many other matters when she sees Lord Melbourne, which
the Queen hopes (as Lord Melbourne says nothing to the contrary) she will do on the 3rd or 4th.

The Queen thinks that it will be quite right if Lord Melbourne writes to Lord John about the
Staffordshire Yeomanry. The Queen will be delighted to see Lady John Russell's little girl,
and would be very happy if Lady John was to bring the Baby also. The Queen begs Lord Melbourne
to invite them (Lord and Lady John) in her name on the 8th, and to stay till the 11th.

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are here, and the Queen is very sorry to say, that from what
she sees and hears, she has reason to fear all is not as it should be; her mother is most markedly
civil and affectionate towards both the Duke and Duchess, and spoke Politics with the former.
The Queen will tell Lord Melbourne more about this when she sees him.

The weather was beautiful yesterday, and the Queen had a long drive and walk, which have done
her great good; it is still finer to-day.

    [Footnote 82: Commissioner of Woods and Forests and Lord Privy
    Seal.]

    [Footnote 83: Sir J. Conroy, who had been Comptroller to
    the Duchess of Kent, made certain claims which it was not
    considered expedient to grant. He received a pension and a
    baronetcy.]

[Pageheading: CANADA]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

30th December 1837.

... Lord Melbourne will do his utmost to compose these differences respecting Canada and the
Army,[84] but your Majesty must contemplate the possibility, not to say the probability, of
his not being able to succeed. It will not do for the sake of temporary accommodation to sacrifice
the honour of your Majesty's Crown or the interests of your Majesty's subjects.

    [Footnote 84: See Introductory Notes for 1837 and 1838, pp.
    56 and 102. (to Ch. VI and Ch. VII)]

[Pageheading: STATE DEPARTMENTS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

31st December 1837.

... Lord Melbourne has not yet been able to leave London. In order to have a chance of arranging
these troublesome affairs it is necessary continually to see those who are principally engaged
in them. From a conversation which he has had this evening with Lord Howick, Lord Melbourne
has better hopes of producing a general agreement upon Canadian affairs, but the question of
the administration of the Army, which is of less immediate importance, is of more difficulty.
Your Majesty knows the importance attached by the King of the Belgians to this matter. The
opinion of the Duke of Wellington is also strongly against the projected alteration. On the
other hand, five Cabinet Ministers have pledged themselves to it by signing the report, and
consider themselves as having publicly undertaken to the House of Commons that some such measure
shall be proposed. Lord Melbourne has asked for the opinions of Lord Hill[85] and Sir Hussey
Vivian[86] in writing. When Lord Melbourne receives them he must submit them to your Majesty
with as short and as clear a statement as he can make of a question which is of a technical
and official character, and with which Lord Melbourne does not feel himself to be very familiar.
Lord Melbourne transmits a copy of the proposed Order in Council to carry the recommendation
of the report into effect, which will acquaint your Majesty precisely what the powers and duties
are which it is intended to transfer from the Secretary of State[87] to the Secretary-at-War.
It is the more necessary to be cautious, because it can be done without taking the opinion
or having recourse to the authority of Parliament.

Your Majesty will not suppose that Lord Melbourne by laying before you the whole case has an
idea of throwing the weight of such a decision entirely upon your Majesty. Lord Melbourne will
deem it his duty to offer your Majesty a decided opinion upon the subject.

Lord Melbourne is much rejoiced to hear that your Majesty enjoys Windsor. The Duchess of Sutherland,[88]
who appreciates both the grand and the beautiful, could not be otherwise than delighted with it....

Lord Melbourne has the pleasure of wishing your Majesty a happy and prosperous New Year.

    [Footnote 85: Commander-in-Chief.]

    [Footnote 86: Master-General of the Ordnance.]

    [Footnote 87: The Secretaries of State (then three, now five
    in number) have co-extensive authority, that is to say, any
    one of them can legally execute the duties of all, although
    separate spheres of action are for convenience assigned to
    them; at that time the administration of Colonial and Military
    affairs were combined, the Secretary-at-War not being a
    Secretary of State. After the Crimean War a fourth Secretary
    was appointed, and after the Indian Mutiny a fifth was added,
    entrusted severally with the supervision of Military affairs
    and the administration of India. See letters of Lord Melbourne
    of 1st, 4th, and 5th November 1841. (Ch. X, 'Secretaries of State')]

    [Footnote 88: Harriet Elizabeth Georgiana, Duchess of
    Sutherland (1806-1868), was the daughter of the sixth Earl of
    Carlisle, and married her cousin, Earl Gower (1786-1861), who
    became Duke of Sutherland in 1833. On the accession of the
    Queen, the Duchess of Sutherland became Mistress of the Robes,
    a post which she held till 1841, and on three subsequent
    occasions. The Duchess was a cultivated woman with many
    tastes, and made Stafford House a great social centre. She was
    deeply interested in philanthropic and social movements, such
    as the Abolition of Slavery, and had a strong sympathy for
    national movements, which she showed by entertaining Garibaldi
    in 1864. She combined a considerable sense of humour with a
    rare capacity for affection, and became one of the Queen's
    closest friends; after the Prince Consort's death she was for
    some weeks the Queen's constant companion.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER VII

The Melbourne Ministry were able to maintain themselves in office during the year (1838), but
were too weak to carry important measures. The prevailing distress led to much criticism of
the Poor Law Act of 1834, and the disturbances in Canada turned the tide of emigration to Australia.
But public interest in politics was eclipsed by the gaieties of the Coronation, in which all
ranks partook. The events of Imperial importance elsewhere centred in Jamaica and Canada, the
apprenticeship system in the former place leading to a renewal of the anti-slavery agitation
at home, and the passing of a Colonial Bill for absolute emancipation. The Canadian troubles
brought about the passing of an Imperial Act for the suspension for two years of the Legislative
Assembly of Lower Canada, and Lord Durham, an impulsive and generous-hearted man, was sent
out as High Commissioner. Having dismissed the Executive Council of his predecessor, he nominated
a fresh one, but an ordinance thereafter promulgated in reference to the rebels was severely
criticised. Lord Brougham, rejoicing at the opportunity of paying off old scores, castigated
the Government, especially Lord Glenelg, the Colonial Secretary, and carried a measure censuring
their Canadian policy. The Ministry disallowed the ordinance of Lord Durham, who, finding himself
unsupported, resigned his Commission and returned home. On his arrival at Plymouth, he made
a speech, in which he described the rebellion as finally at an end; the news, however, subsequently
arrived that after his departure from Canada, disturbances had broken out afresh. Sir John
Colborne was appointed to succeed Lord Durham with full powers.

The Civil War continued in Spain through the year, and intermittent rioting took place in Portugal,
a country which was now verging on bankruptcy. The old Dutch and Belgian controversy as to
the possession of Luxemburg was revived, the King of Holland, who had obstinately withheld
his concurrence for six years from the Articles on the faith of which King Leopold accepted
the throne of Belgium, now showing overt hostility in the disputed territory. As was natural,
France was in sympathy with Belgium, and the two countries entered into a treaty of commerce
and reciprocity.

CHAPTER VII

1838

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

1st January 1838.

... Lord Melbourne feels most deeply the extreme kindness of your Majesty's expressions. Whatever
may happen in the course of events, it will always be to Lord Melbourne a source of the most
lively satisfaction to have assisted your Majesty in the commencement of your reign, which
was not without trouble and difficulty, and your Majesty may depend that whether in or out
of office Lord Melbourne's conduct will always be directed by the strongest attachment to your
Majesty's person, and by the most ardent desire to promote your Majesty's interests, which
from his knowledge of your Majesty's character and disposition Lord Melbourne feels certain
will be always identified with the interests of your People.

[Pageheading: CANADA]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

14th January 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has the honour of acknowledging
your Majesty's gracious communication, which he received this evening. Lord Melbourne has this
morning seen Lord Durham upon the subject of his assuming the Government of Canada,[1] and
has had a long conversation with him. Lord Melbourne is to receive his final answer before
the Cabinet to-morrow, which meets at ten o'clock. Lord Durham is anxious that your Majesty
should express to him your wish, or rather, as he phrased it, lay upon him your commands that
he should undertake this duty, and also that, as his absence will be but temporary, that Lady
Durham[2] should retain her situation in your Majesty's household. Lord Melbourne thinks that
your Majesty may properly gratify him in both these points. Lord Durham made some other stipulations,
which Lord Melbourne will explain to your Majesty, but, upon the whole, Lord Melbourne feels
little doubt that he will accept.

Lord Glenelg[3] is on Monday to make a statement to the House of Lords upon the subject of
Canada, on which a debate may not improbably arise by which Lord Melbourne may be detained.
On Wednesday there is neither House of Lords nor Cabinet dinner. Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday
will therefore be festive days, on which Lord Melbourne will have great pleasure in obeying
your Majesty's commands and also on Monday, if he should not be kept in the House of Lords.

Lord Melbourne thinks it was prudent in your Majesty not to expose yourself to the cold of
the Chapel. He is himself better, but has still much cough, though he has kept himself very
quiet and been very careful of his diet since he has been in London.

    [Footnote 1: In the room of Lord Gosford. See ante, p. 102. Ch. VII,
      (Introductory Note to Ch. VII)]

    [Footnote 2: Daughter of Earl Grey.]

    [Footnote 3: Colonial Secretary.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 15th January 1838. (Half-past nine o'clock.)

The Queen has written approved on Lord Melbourne's letter as he desired; but adds a line to
express her satisfaction at Lord Durham's having accepted the office of Governor-General of Canada.

The Queen will be very happy to see Lord Melbourne at half-past three.

[Pageheading: INFLUENCE OF THE CROWN]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 16th January 1838.

MY DEARLY BELOVED CHILD,--... I am very grateful for Lord Melbourne's kind recollection of
me. I have a sincere regard for him, and I think that our intercourse has satisfied him of
one thing, that I have nothing so much at heart than your welfare, and what is for the good
of your Empire. I wish very much that you would speak with him on the subject of what ought
to be done to keep for the Crown the little influence it still may possess. His views on this
important subject are the more trustworthy as he always has belonged to the moderate Liberals,
and therefore has had the means of judging the matter with great impartiality. Monarchy to
be carried on requires certain elements, and the occupation of the Sovereign must be constantly
to preserve these elements, or should they have been too much weakened by untoward circumstances,
to contrive by every means to strengthen them again. You are too clever not to know, that it
is not the being called Queen or King, which can be of the least consequence, when to the title
there is not also annexed the power indispensable for the exercise of those functions. All
trades must be learned, and nowadays the trade of a constitutional Sovereign, to do it well,
is a very difficult one.

... I must end, and remain ever, most affectionately, my dear Child, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

24th January 1838.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--Having just been informed of your gracious consideration of, and your generosity
towards, the dear King's children,[4] I must express to you how deeply I feel this kind proof
of your attachment to the late King, whose memory you respect by the generous continuance of
their former allowances from the Privy Purse. Nothing could have given me more real satisfaction,
and I trust and hope that they will prove their gratitude and entire devotion to you by their
future conduct. Let me thank you, dearest Victoria, from the bottom of my heart, and be assured
that the heavenly blessing of our beloved King will be upon you for your generous kindness
to those he loved so much in this world.

I hope that you have not suffered at all from the severity of the weather, and are as well
as all your subjects can wish you to be, amongst whom there is none more anxiously praying
for your welfare and happiness than, my dear Niece, your most devoted and affectionate Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

    [Footnote 4: The eldest of the five illegitimate sons of
    William IV. and Mrs. Jordan had been created Earl of Munster,
    and his sisters and brothers had been given the precedence
    of the daughters and younger sons of a Marquis. The Queen now
    continued the same allowances as they had received from the
    late King.]

[Pageheading: DANIEL O'CONNELL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 22nd February 1838.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--... I had a very brilliant Levée again yesterday, at which O'Connell and all
his sons, son-in-law, nephew, etc., appeared. I received him, as you may imagine, with a very
smiling face; he has been behaving very well this year.[5] It was quite a treat for me to see
him, as I had for long wished it.

We are going on most prosperously here, which will, I am sure, give you as much pleasure as
it does me. We have no fear for any of the questions. Lord John Russell is much pleased with
the temper of the House of Commons, which he says is remarkably good, and the Duke of Wellington
is behaving uncommonly well, going with Ministers, and behaving like an honest man should do....

    [Footnote 5: Ever since the Accession, O'Connell's speeches
    had been full of expressions of loyalty, and he had been
    acting in concert with the Whigs.]

[Pageheading: DEPARTMENTS OF STATE]

[Pageheading: BUREAUCRACY]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

STANHOPE STREET, 25th February 1838.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and with reference to your Majesty's
question upon the subjects to which Lord William Russell's recent despatch relates, he has
the honour to state: that in the Governments of the Continent, and more especially in those
which have no representative Assemblies, the second class of persons in the public offices
possess and exercise much more power and influence than the corresponding class of persons
do in this country. In England the Ministers who are at the head of the several departments
of the State, are liable any day and every day to defend themselves in Parliament; in order
to do this, they must be minutely acquainted with all the details of the business of their
offices, and the only way of being constantly armed with such information is to conduct and
direct those details themselves.

On the Continent, where Ministers of State are not liable so to be called to account for their
conduct, the Ministers are tempted to leave the details of their business much more to their
Under-Secretaries and to their chief clerks. Thus it happens that all the routine of business
is generally managed by these subordinate agents; and to such an extent is this carried, that
Viscount Palmerston believes that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, in France, Austria, Prussia,
and Russia, seldom take the trouble of writing their own despatches, except, perhaps, upon
some very particular and important occasion.

Your Majesty will easily see how greatly such a system must place in the hands of the subordinate
members of the public departments the power of directing the policy and the measures of the
Government; because the value and tendency, and the consequences of a measure, frequently depend
as much upon the manner in which that measure is worked out, as upon the intention and spirit
with which it was planned.

Another circumstance tends also to give great power to these second-class men, and that is
their permanence in office.

In England when, in consequence of some great political change, the Heads of Departments go
out, the greater part of the Under-Secretaries go out also; thus the Under-Secretary (with
two or three exceptions) having come in with his Chief, has probably no more experience than
his Chief, and can seldom set up his own knowledge to overrule the opinion, or to guide the
judgment, of his superior.

But on the Continent, changes of Ministers are oftener changes of individual men from personal
causes, than changes of parties from political convulsions; and therefore when the Chief retires,
the Under-Secretary remains. There are consequently in all the public offices abroad a number
of men who have spent the greater part of their lives in their respective departments, and
who by their long experience are full of knowledge of what has been done in former times, and
of the most convenient and easy manner of doing what may be required in the time present. This
affords to the Chiefs an additional motive for leaning upon their subordinates, and gives to
those subordinates still more real influence.

This class of subordinate men has, from the fact of its being possessed of so much power, been
invested by the jargon of the day with the title of "Bureaucratic"--a name fabricated in imitation
of the words "aristocratic" and "democratic," each being compounded of the word "cratic," which
is a corruption from the Greek word "kratos," which means power; and the prefix, denoting the
particular class of society whose power is meant to be expressed. Thus "aristo-cratic" is the
power of the upper, or, as in Greek it is called, the "aristos" class of society; "demo-cratic"
is the power of the people, which in Greek is called the "demos"; and "bureau-cratic" is the
power of the public offices or "bureaus," for which latter the French name has been taken instead
of a Greek word.

It appears, then, to be the opinion of Lord William Russell, that this second class of public
men in Prussia are animated by a desire to see the general policy of their country rendered
more national and independent than it has hitherto been; that for this purpose they were desirous
of urging on the Government to take its stand against foreign influence upon some point or
other, not much caring what that point might be; that they thought it would be difficult to
choose a political question, because on such a question the King of Prussia might be against
them, and that consequently they chose a religious question, on which they knew they should
have the King with them; and that accordingly they led the Government on to a quarrel with
the Court of Rome, and with the Catholic or Austrian party in Germany, more with a view to
place Prussia in an independent national position than from any particular importance which
they attached to the question itself upon which the rupture was to be effected.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

21st March 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. The House sate until half-past eleven
last night. Lord Stanhope[6] made a long declamatory speech, very violent, but having in it
nothing defined or specific, and was answered by Lord Brougham in a most able and triumphant
defence and maintenance of the late Act for Amending the Laws for the Relief of the Poor.[7]

Lord Melbourne was very sorry to be prevented from waiting upon your Majesty. He is very grateful
for your Majesty's enquiries, and feels very well this morning....

Lord Minto[8] told Lord Melbourne last night to acquaint your Majesty that Lord Amelius Beauclerck,[9]
your Majesty's first Naval Aide-de-Camp, intended to ask an Audience to-day of your Majesty,
and that the object of it was to request that he and the other Aides-de-Camp might wear sashes.
This was always refused by the late King as being absurd and ridiculous--as it is, particularly
considering Lord Amelius's figure--and your Majesty had perhaps better say that you can make
no change.

Lord Melbourne will be at St James's twenty minutes before ten.

    [Footnote 6: Philip Henry, fourth Earl.]

    [Footnote 7: Before 1834 a great source of public abuse was
    the out-door relief given to able-bodied paupers, either in
    kind or money. The Act of that year was based on the
    principle that no one must perish through the want of the bare
    necessities of life. Poor Law Commissioners were established,
    England was divided into Districts, and the Districts into
    Unions. Out-door relief was to be given, on the order of
    two justices, to poor persons wholly unable, from age or
    infirmity, to work. But there was much opposition to the
    new law; it was considered a grievance that old couples were
    refused relief at home, and that the sexes must be separated
    at the workhouse, to which the name of "Bastille" began to be
    attached. In Devonshire it was even believed that the bread
    distributed by the relieving officers was mixed with poisonous
    ingredients.]

    [Footnote 8: The First Lord of the Admiralty.]

    [Footnote 9: A son of the eighth Duke of St Albans.]

[Pageheading: PRESSURE OF BUSINESS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 4th April 1838.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Vous ne m'en voudrez pas, I sincerely hope, for not having written to you
sooner to thank you for your kind letter, which I received last week, but I really could not
do so. As honesty is the best policy, I will tell you the simple fact. I have been out riding
every day for about three hours, which quite renovates me, and when I come home I have consequently
a good deal to do, what with seeing people, reading despatches, writing, etc. You will, I trust,
now quite forgive your poor niece, whom you so often call "the little Queen," which is, I fear,
true; but her feelings of affection are not so small as her body is, I can assure you.

The Prince de Ligne[10] will be received with every possible attention, I can promise; it would
have been so without his being recommended; his rank, and, above all, his being one of your
subjects, would of course entitle him to a good reception from me....

There is another sujet which I wish to mention to you, et que j'ai bien à c[oe]ur, which is,
if you would consult Stockmar with respect to the finishing of Albert's education; he knows
best my feelings and wishes on that subject....

    [Footnote 10: He was appointed to attend the Coronation as
    Minister Extraordinary from King Leopold.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

5th April 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and is much distressed that, being
in the House of Lords, he was unable to answer your Majesty's letter as soon as he received
it. Lord Melbourne went to the Palace about half-past four, but learning from the porter at
the gate that your Majesty was not returned, went away thinking that there was not left time
to see your Majesty before the House of Lords. Lord Melbourne is very much concerned that your
Majesty should have hastened at all, and most earnestly requests your Majesty never will do
so upon his account. Lord Melbourne hears with great pleasure that your Majesty has had a pleasant
ride, and likes your horse. Lord Melbourne is very well himself, and will wait upon your Majesty
to-morrow morning about ten minutes before ten.

[Pageheading: FAVOURITE HORSES]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 10th April 1838.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I received your kind letter of the 5th on Sunday, and return you my best
thanks for it. I shall, before I say another word, answer your question about the horses which
I ride, which I do the more willingly as I have got two darlings, if I may use that word. They
are, both of them, quite perfect in every sense of the word; very handsome, full of spirit,
delightful easy-goers, very quiet, and never shying at anything. Is not this perfection? The
one called Tartar (which belonged to Lord Conyngham), an Irish horse, is a very dark brown,
a beautiful creature; the other, which Lord Uxbridge[11] got for me, is called Uxbridge; he
is smaller than Tartar, and is a dark chestnut, with a beautiful little Arabian head. I am
afraid I shall have bored you with this long account of my horses.

I am going to Windsor to-morrow afternoon, and have got a great deal to do in consequence....

Poor dear Louie[12] lingers on, but, alas! I can only say lingers; she does not gain strength.
I cannot say how it grieves me, I am so sincerely attached to the good old soul, who has known
me ever since my birth. But I still entertain a hope that she may get over it.

We shall have a fortnight's respite from our Political Campaign. I trust we shall do as well
as we have done when Parliament meets again. Believe me always, your devoted Niece,

    VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 11: Henry, Earl of Uxbridge, afterwards
    second Marquis of Anglesey (1797-1869).]

    [Footnote 12: Louisa Louis was born at Erbach in 1771.
    The Queen erected a tablet to her memory in St
    Martin's-in-the-Fields, where she is described as "the
    faithful and devoted friend of Princess Charlotte of Wales,
    and from earliest infancy honoured by the affectionate
    attachment of Her Majesty Queen Victoria." See Reminiscences,
    ante, p. 10. (Ch. I, 'Early Reminiscences')]

[Pageheading: PRINCE ALBERT'S EDUCATION]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

13th April 1838.

... Concerning the education of our friend Albert, it has been the best plan you could have
fixed upon, to name Stockmar your commissary-general; it will give unité d'action et de l'ensemble,
which otherwise we should not have had. I have communicated to him what your uncle and the
young gentleman seem to wish, and what strikes me as the best for the moment. Stockmar will
make a regular report to you on this subject. They will return to Bonn at the beginning of
May, and remain till the end of August.... I agree with this, as nothing enlarges the mind
so much as travelling. But Stockmar will best treat this affair verbally with you. The young
gentlemen wished to pay me another visit at the beginning of May, prior to their return to
Bonn. Nothing definite is, however, as yet settled about it. On one thing you can rely, that
it is my great anxiety to see Albert a very good and distinguished young man, and no pains
will be thought too much on my part if this end can be attained....

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

(Undated.)

Your Majesty will perceive by this box, which I received this morning but had not time to open,
that Marshal Soult, Duke of Dalmatia,[13] has been appointed Ambassador to the Coronation....

    [Footnote 13: Soult entered the French army in 1785, and
    became Marshal of France in 1804. After distinguishing himself
    at Austerlitz in 1805, he was made Duke of Dalmatia in 1807.
    Serving in the Peninsular War, he pursued Moore to Corunna,
    and became Commander-in-Chief in Spain in 1809. Subsequently
    he conducted the French retreat before Wellington in Southern
    France, 1813-14; was banished, but recalled and created a
    peer. He was Minister of War 1830-34.]

[Pageheading: OLD SERVANTS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 17th April 1838.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--... You will by this time have learnt the sad loss we have all sustained
in the death of dearest, faithful, excellent Louie, who breathed her last, without a struggle
or a suffering, on Sunday night at nine o'clock. I don't think I have ever been so much overcome
or distressed by anything, almost, as by the death of this my earliest friend; it is the first
link that has been broken of my first and infantine affections. I always loved Louie, and shall
cherish her memory as that of the purest and best of mortals as long as I live! I took leave
of her before I left London on Wednesday, and never, never shall I forget the blessing she
gave me, and the grasp she gave my hand! I was quite upset by it! And I feared and felt I should
behold her on earth no more; it was, however, a beautiful lesson of calmness and contentment
and resignation to the will of her God! Prepared as she was at every moment of her life to
meet her heavenly Father, she was full of hope of recovery, and quite unconscious of her approaching
end. You will, I am sure, dearest Uncle, feel the loss of this excellent creature; I cannot
restrain my tears while writing this. One great consolation I have, which is, that I have been
the means of making her last days as happy as she could wish to be, after having lost what
she loved most!

... Poor Mason, our faithful coachman for so many years, is also dead. These old servants cannot
be replaced; and to see those whom one has known from one's birth drop off, one by one, is
melancholy! You will think this letter a very sad one, but I feel sad....

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

MARLBOROUGH HOUSE, 17th April 1838.

... I can well enter into all your feelings of regret at the death of one so truly attached
and so faithful as dear old Louie had been to you from your infancy, and I quite understand
your grief; yet I feel sure that you will also rejoice for her, that she has been relieved
from her earthly sufferings. For her the change of existence was a happy one; good and pious
as she was, we may trust that her state at present is one of felicity and bliss through the
redeeming grace of our Saviour....

[Pageheading: THE CORONATION]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

17th April 1838.

... The Parliamentary affairs will, please Heaven, continue to go on well; I am more than ever
bound to wish it, as I am not anxious to exchange my clever and well-informed friend Palmerston,
with Lord Aberdeen, for instance, of whose sweetness the Greek negotiation[14] has given me
very fair means of judging. Now I will conclude by touching on one subject which concerns your
great goodness to us. When we left England you expressed a wish to see us at the time of the
Coronation, which was then believed to take place at the end of May. More mature reflection
has made me think that a King and Queen at your dear Coronation might perhaps be a hors-d'[oe]uvre,
and I think, if it meets with your approbation, that it may be better to pay you our respects
at some other period, which you might like to fix upon. I do not deny that having been deprived
by circumstances from the happiness of wishing you joy at your birthday, since 1831, in person,
I feel strongly tempted to make a short apparition to see you, as seeing and speaking is much
pleasanter than ink and paper....

    [Footnote 14: Referring to the offer of the throne of Greece
    to King Leopold in 1830.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 25th April 1838.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--... With respect to the happiness of seeing you and my dearest Aunt, I shall
now respectfully state my feelings. It would have made me very happy to see you both at the
Coronation, but I think upon the whole it is perhaps better you should not do so. Then, with
respect to your coming for my old birthday, I must observe that I could not enjoy you or my
Aunt at all à mon aise. First of all, I could not lodge you, and if one is not in the same
house together, there is no real seeing one another; secondly, the town will be so full of
all sorts of foreigners that I should have no peace to see you and Aunt quietly. If therefore,
dearest Uncle, it suits you and Aunt Louise, would you come about the end of August, and stay
with me as long as you can? I trust, dearest Uncle, que vous me comprendrez bien, and that
you are assured of the great happiness it is for me to see you at any time.

Since I have written to you we have received from Lord Granville the news of Marshal Soult's
appointment as Ambassador for the Coronation, and of the Duc de Nemours' intention of coming
here as a spectator. You may be assured that I shall be delighted to see the Duke, as I always
am any of the dear French family. With regard to Soult, I am sure you are aware that whoever
the King chose to send would be equally well received by me and the Government.

[Pageheading: THE TRAIN-BEARERS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 5th May 1838.

The Queen sends the papers relating to the Coronation as Lord Melbourne wished. The Queen also
transmits the names of the young ladies who she proposes should carry her train. If Lord Melbourne
sees any objection to any of these she hopes he will say so.

The Queen has put down Lady Mary Talbot, as being the daughter of the oldest Earl in the Kingdom[15]
and a Roman Catholic; and Lady Anne Fitzwilliam, as she is anxious to show civility to Lord
Fitzwilliam, who has been very kind to the Queen.

Perhaps, when the names are agreed to, Lord Melbourne would kindly undertake to speak or write
to the parents of the young ladies proposing it to them.

  Lady Caroline Lennox.
  Lady Adelaide Paget.
  Lady Fanny Cowper.
  Lady Wilhelmina Stanhope.
  Lady Mary Talbot.
  Lady Anne Fitzwilliam.
  Lady Mary Grimston.
  Lady Louisa Jenkinson.

    [Footnote 15: John, sixteenth Earl of Shrewsbury (1791-1852).]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

17th May 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and thinks that your Majesty had better
direct Lord Conyngham to ask the Archbishop, before the Audience, who has generally been there
and how it ought to be conducted.

Your Majesty had better read the Answer and not give it to the Archbishop, as Lord Melbourne
apprehends the Archbishop does not give your Majesty the Address.

Your Majesty had better say something kind to each of the Bishops as they are presented. They
are presented to your Majesty in this manner as a sort of privilege, instead of being presented
at the Drawing-Room with others, and your Majesty should conduct yourself towards them exactly
as if they had been presented in the usual circle. The time is about half-past one, and your
Majesty had better be punctual so as not to delay the Drawing-Room.

[Pageheading: THE SLAVE TRADE]

In the same letter is enclosed a draft of a letter which it was suggested by Lord Melbourne
that the Queen should write to the King of Portugal, with regard to the suppression of the
Slave Trade.

[Draft enclosed]

That you hope that the King and Queen of Portugal will not consider the strong representations
made by your Government on the subject of the Slave Trade as arising from any desire to embarrass
them. That there is every disposition to make allowance for the difficulties of Portugal, but
allowance must also be made for the feelings of the people of England; that those feelings
on the Slave Trade are as strong as they are just. That England has made great sacrifices for
the suppression of that crime, that she has made sacrifices to Portugal, and that she has been
extremely indignant at finding that traffic so obstinately continued to be sheltered and protected
under the flag of Portugal. That Portugal must not expect that England will much longer refrain
from taking effectual measures for preventing these practices. That you have spoken thus openly
because you wish them to be aware of the truth, and that you entreat both the Queen and the
King to use their power and influence in procuring such a treaty to be concluded without delay,
as will satisfy England and exonerate Portugal from the reproach under which she now labours.

This is the substance of what might be written. It is perhaps a little harshly worded, but
your Majesty may soften it.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 25th May 1838.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I am most thankful for your very kind letter, and for the beautiful little
sword, which delights me.

I have been dancing till past four o'clock this morning; we have had a charming ball, and I
have spent the happiest birthday that I have had for many years; oh, how different to last
year! Everybody was so kind and so friendly to me.

We have got a number of Austrians and Milanese here, among whom are a Prince Odescalchi, and
a Count Eugène Zichy, renowned for his magnificent turquoises and his famous valzing, a good-natured
élégant; we have also Esterhazy's daughter Marie--now Countess Chorinsky--a Count and Countess
Grippa, and a Marquis and Marchioness of Trivalzi, etc.

Old Talleyrand[16] is at last dead. I hear he showed wonderful composure and firmness to the
last. He was one of those people who I thought never would die. Did you know what Pozzo said
to somebody here about him? He said he (Talleyrand) would not die yet, "parce que le Diable
ne voulait pas l'avoir."

    [Footnote 16: Died 17th May, aged eighty-four.]

[Pageheading: INDEPENDENCE OF BELGIUM]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 2nd June 1838.

... I have not all this time touched on our affairs, from motives of great discretion, but
as the battle draws nigh,[17] I cannot very well help writing a few words on the subject. I
found an Article in the French Constitutionnel which paints our position in pretty true colours.
As it is not very long, I beg you to have the goodness to read it. You have given me so many
proofs of affection, and your kind speech at Windsor is so fresh in my memory, that it would
be very wrong in me to think that in so short a time, and without any cause, those feelings
which are so precious to me could have changed. This makes me appeal to those sentiments.

The independent existence of the Provinces which form this Kingdom has always been an object
of importance to England; the surest proof of it is, that for centuries England has made the
greatest sacrifices of blood and treasure for that object. The last time I saw the late King
at Windsor, in 1836, he said to me: "If ever France or any other Power invades your country,
it will be a question of immediate war for England; we cannot suffer that." I answered him
I was happy to hear him speak so, as I also did not want any foreign Power to invade us....

All I want from your kind Majesty is, that you will occasionally express to your Ministers,
and particularly to good Lord Melbourne, that, as far as it is compatible with the interests
of your own dominions, you do not wish that your Government should take the lead in such measures
as might in a short time bring on the destruction of this country, as well as that of your
uncle and his family.

Europe has enjoyed ever since 1833, in our part of it, a state of profound peace and real happiness
and prosperity. None can deny that the measures which I adopted to organise this country have
greatly contributed to this happy state of affairs; this makes me think that the changes which
are to take place should be brought about in a very gentle manner....

I am sorry to have you to listen to so much about politics, but it is not my fault; I wished
nothing so much as to be left alone. I shall do all I can to bring about a good conclusion,
but it must not be forgotten that these seven years all the dangers, all the trouble, fell
constantly to my share....

Now I will make haste to conclude, and remain ever, my dearest Victoria, your truly devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 17: The execution of the treaty of 1831, called the
    Twenty-four Articles, assigning part of Luxemburg to Holland,
    had been reluctantly agreed to by Leopold, but the King of
    Holland withheld his assent for seven years.]

[Pageheading: ANGLO-BELGIAN RELATIONS]

[Pageheading: PROGRESS OF BELGIUM]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 10th June 1838.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--It is indeed a long while since I have written to you, and I fear you will
think me very lazy; but I must in turn say, dearest Uncle, that your silence was longer than
mine, and that it grieved me, and m'a beaucoup peinée. I know, however, you have had, and still
have, much to do. Many thanks, my dear Uncle, for your very kind letter of the 2nd inst....

It would indeed, dearest Uncle, be very wrong of you, if you thought my feelings of warm and
devoted attachment to you, and of great affection for you, could be changed. Nothing can ever
change them! Independent of my feelings of affection for you, my beloved Uncle, you must be
aware that the ancient and hereditary policy of this country with respect to Belgium must make
me most anxious that my Government not only should not be parties to any measure that would
be prejudicial to Belgium, but that my Ministers should, as far as may not conflict with the
interests or engagements of this country, do everything in their power to promote the prosperity
and welfare of your Kingdom.

My Ministers, I can assure you, share all my feelings on this subject, and are most anxious
to see everything settled in a satisfactory manner between Belgium and Holland.

We all feel that we cannot sufficiently or adequately express how much Belgium owes to your
wise system of government, which has rendered that country so flourishing in every way, and
how much all Europe is indebted to you for the preservation of general peace; because it is
certain that when you ascended the throne of Belgium that country was the one from which the
occasion of a general war was much to be feared; whereas now it is become a link to secure
the continuance of peace; and by the happy circumstances of your double near relationship to
me and to the King of the French, Belgium--which was in former times the cause of discord between
England and France--becomes now a mutual tie to keep them together.

This, my beloved Uncle, we owe to you, and it must be a source of pride and gratification to you.

I perfectly understand and feel that your position with respect to all these affairs is very
difficult and trying, and the feelings of your subjects are far from unnatural; yet I sincerely
hope that you will use the great influence you possess over the minds of the leading men in
Belgium, to mitigate discontent and calm irritation, and procure acquiescence in whatever arrangements
may ultimately be found inevitable.

You are right in saying that I, though but a child of twelve years old when you went to Belgium,
remember much of what took place, and I have since then had the whole matter fully explained
to me. The Treaty of November 1831 was perhaps not so advantageous to the Belgians as could
have been wished, yet it cannot have been thought very advantageous to the Dutch, else they
would have most probably urged their Government before this time to accept it; besides, when
these conditions were framed, England was only one out of five Powers whose concurrence was
required, and consequently they were made under very difficult circumstances. This treaty having
been ratified, it is become binding, and therefore it is almost impossible to consider it as
otherwise, and to set aside those parts of it which have been ratified by all the parties.

I feel I must in turn, dearest Uncle, entreat your indulgence for so long a letter, and for
such full explanations, but I felt it my duty to do so, as you had spoken to me on the subject.

You may be assured, my beloved Uncle, that both Lord Melbourne and Lord Palmerston are most
anxious at all times for the prosperity and welfare of Belgium, and are consequently most desirous
of seeing this difficult question brought to a conclusion which may be satisfactory to you.
Allow me once more therefore, dearest Uncle, to beseech you to use your powerful influence
over your subjects, and to strive to moderate their excited feelings on these matters. Your
situation is a very difficult one, and nobody feels more for you than I do.

I trust, dearest Uncle, that you will, at all times, believe me your devoted and most affectionate
Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: FOREIGN POLICY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, June [18] 1838.

MY DEAREST AND MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--You have written me a very dear and long letter, which
has given me great pleasure and satisfaction. I was much moved with the expressions of truly
felt affection, which it contains, and I shall never again doubt your affection for me, but
rely on your dear heart and the constancy of your character.

I will now tell you honestly that I had some misgivings; I did not exactly think that you had
quite forgotten me, but I thought I had been put aside as one does with a piece of furniture
which is no longer wanted. I did not complain, because I fear if affection is once on the decline,
reproaches only diminish it the faster. I therefore said nothing, but in a life full of grief
and disappointments like mine, the loss of your affection would have been one of the most severe.
It was in this point of view that the declaration made by Lord Palmerston at the beginning
of May to the Prussian Government chagrined me much.[19] It was premature, because the negotiation
was not yet renewed. It looked as if the English Government had been anxious to say to the
Northern Powers, who always steadfastly protected Holland, "You imagine, perhaps, that we mean
to have égards for the uncle of the Queen; there you see we shall make even shorter work with
him now than we did under our late master."

This impression had been general on the Continent; they considered the declaration to Prussia
in this way: "La Reine et ses Ministres sont donc entièrement indifférents sur le compte du
Roi L.; cela change entièrement la position, et nous allons faire mains basses sur lui." From
that moment their language became extremely imperious; they spoke of nothing but acts of coercion,
bombardment, etc., etc. I firmly believe, because I have been these many years on terms of
great and sincere friendship with Palmerston, that he did not himself quite foresee the importance
which would be attached to his declaration. I must say it hurt me more in my English capacity
than in my Belgian, as I came to this country from England, and was chosen for that very reason.
Besides, I am happy to say, I was never as yet in the position to ask for any act of kindness
from you, so that whatever little service I may have rendered you, remained on a basis of perfect
disinterestedness. That the first diplomatic step in our affairs should seem by your Government
to be directed against me, created therefore all over the Continent a considerable sensation.
I shall never ask any favours of you, or anything that could in the least be considered as
incompatible with the interests of England; but you will comprehend that there is a great difference
in claiming favours and in being treated as an enemy....

I will conclude my overgrown letter with the assurance that you never were in greater favour,
and that I love you dearly. Believe me, therefore, ever, my best beloved Victoria, your devoted
Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 18: The day of the month is not given.]

    [Footnote 19: Prussia was giving unmistakable evidence of a
    disposition to support Holland against Belgium.]

[Pageheading: THE CORONATION]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

MARLBORO' HOUSE, 28th June 1838. (At a quarter before 12 o'clock on the Coronation Day.)

MY DEAREST NIECE,--The guns are just announcing your approach to the Abbey, and as I am not
near you, and cannot take part in the sacred ceremony of your Coronation, I must address you
in writing to assure you that my thoughts and my whole heart are with you, and my prayers are
offered up to Heaven for your happiness, and the prosperity and glory of your reign. May our
Heavenly Father bless and preserve you, and His Holy Ghost dwell within you to give you that
peace which the world cannot give! Accept of these my best wishes, and the blessing of your
most devoted and attached Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Thursday, 28th June 1838.

I was awoke at four o'clock by the guns in the Park, and could not get much sleep afterwards
on account of the noise of the people, bands, etc., etc. Got up at seven, feeling strong and
well; the Park presented a curious spectacle, crowds of people up to Constitution Hill, soldiers,
bands, etc. I dressed, having taken a little breakfast before I dressed, and a little after.
At half-past 9 I went into the next room, dressed exactly in my House of Lords costume; and
met Uncle Ernest, Charles,[20] and Feodore (who had come a few minutes before into my dressing-room),
Lady Lansdowne, Lady Normanby, the Duchess of Sutherland, and Lady Barham, all in their robes.

    [Footnote 20: Prince Charles of Leiningen, the Queen's
    half-brother.]

[Pageheading: THE ABBEY]

At 10 I got into the State Coach with the Duchess of Sutherland and Lord Albemarle and we began
our Progress. I subjoin a minute account of the whole Procession and of the whole Proceeding,--the
route, etc. It was a fine day, and the crowds of people exceeded what I have ever seen; many
as there were the day I went to the City, it was nothing, nothing to the multitudes, the millions
of my loyal subjects, who were assembled in every spot to witness the Procession. Their good
humour and excessive loyalty was beyond everything, and I really cannot say how proud I feel
to be the Queen of such a Nation. I was alarmed at times for fear that the people would be
crushed and squeezed on account of the tremendous rush and pressure.

After putting on my mantle, and the young ladies having properly got hold of it and Lord Conyngham
holding the end of it, I left the robing-room and the Procession began as is described in the
annexed account, and all that followed and took place. The sight was splendid; the bank of
Peeresses quite beautiful all in their robes, and the Peers on the other side. My young train-bearers
were always near me, and helped me whenever I wanted anything. The Bishop of Durham[21] stood
on the side near me, but he was, as Lord Melbourne told me, remarkably maladroit, and never
could tell me what was to take place. At the beginning of the Anthem, where I've made a mark,
I retired to St Edward's Chapel, a dark small place immediately behind the Altar, with my ladies
and train-bearers--took off my crimson robe and kirtle, and put on the supertunica of cloth
of gold, also in the shape of a kirtle, which was put over a singular sort of little gown of
linen trimmed with lace; I also took off my circlet of diamonds and then proceeded bareheaded
into the Abbey; I was then seated upon St Edward's chair, where the Dalmatic robe was clasped
round me by the Lord Great Chamberlain. Then followed all the various things; and last (of
those things) the Crown being placed on my head--which was, I must own, a most beautiful impressive
moment; all the Peers and Peeresses put on their coronets at the same instant.

    [Footnote 21: Edward Maltby, 1770-1859.]

My excellent Lord Melbourne, who stood very close to me throughout the whole ceremony, was
completely overcome at this moment, and very much affected; he gave me such a kind, and I may
say fatherly look. The shouts, which were very great, the drums, the trumpets, the firing of
the guns, all at the same instant, rendered the spectacle most imposing.

[Pageheading: HOMAGE]

The Enthronisation and the Homage of, first, all the Bishops, and then my Uncles, and lastly
of all the Peers, in their respective order was very fine. The Duke of Norfolk (holding for
me the Sceptre with a Cross) with Lord Melbourne stood close to me on my right, and the Duke
of Richmond with the other Sceptre on my left, etc., etc. All my train-bearers, etc., standing
behind the Throne. Poor old Lord Rolle, who is 82, and dreadfully infirm, in attempting to
ascend the steps fell and rolled quite down, but was not the least hurt; when he attempted
to re-ascend them I got up and advanced to the end of the steps, in order to prevent another
fall. When Lord Melbourne's turn to do Homage came, there was loud cheering; they also cheered
Lord Grey and the Duke of Wellington; it's a pretty ceremony; they first all touch the Crown,
and then kiss my hand. When my good Lord Melbourne knelt down and kissed my hand, he pressed
my hand and I grasped his with all my heart, at which he looked up with his eyes filled with
tears and seemed much touched, as he was, I observed, throughout the whole ceremony. After
the Homage was concluded I left the Throne, took off my Crown and received the Sacrament; I
then put on my Crown again, and re-ascended the Throne, leaning on Lord Melbourne's arm. At
the commencement of the Anthem I descended from the Throne, and went into St Edward's Chapel
with my Ladies, Train-bearers, and Lord Willoughby, where I took off the Dalmatic robe, supertunica,
etc., and put on the Purple Velvet Kirtle and Mantle, and proceeded again to the Throne, which
I ascended leaning on Lord Melbourne's hand.

There was another most dear Being present at this ceremony, in the box immediately above the
royal box, and who witnessed all; it was my dearly beloved angelic Lehzen, whose eyes I caught
when on the Throne, and we exchanged smiles. She and Späth, Lady John Russell, and Mr. Murray
saw me leave the Palace, arrive at the Abbey, leave the Abbey and again return to the Palace!!

[Pageheading: POPULAR ENTHUSIASM]

I then again descended from the Throne, and repaired with all the Peers bearing the Regalia,
my Ladies and Train-bearers, to St Edward's Chapel, as it is called; but which, as Lord Melbourne
said, was more unlike a Chapel than anything he had ever seen; for what was called an Altar
was covered with sandwiches, bottles of wine, etc., etc. The Archbishop came in and ought to
have delivered the Orb to me, but I had already got it, and he (as usual) was so confused and
puzzled and knew nothing, and--went away. Here we waited some minutes. Lord Melbourne took
a glass of wine, for he seemed completely tired. The Procession being formed, I replaced my
Crown (which I had taken off for a few minutes), took the Orb in my left hand and the Sceptre
in my right, and thus loaded, proceeded through the Abbey--which resounded with cheers, to
the first robing-room; where I found the Duchess of Gloucester, Mamma, and the Duchess of Cambridge
with their Ladies. And here we waited for at least an hour, with all my ladies and train-bearers;
the Princesses went away about half an hour before I did. The Archbishop had (most awkwardly)
put the ring on the wrong finger, and the consequence was that I had the greatest difficulty
to take it off again, which I at last did with great pain. Lady Fanny, Lady Wilhelmina, and
Lady Mary Grimston looked quite beautiful. At about half-past four I re-entered my carriage,
the Crown on my head, and the Sceptre and Orb in my hands, and we proceeded the same way as
we came--the crowds if possible having increased. The enthusiasm, affection, and loyalty were
really touching, and I shall ever remember this day as the Proudest of my life! I came home
at a little after six, really not feeling tired.

[Pageheading: INCIDENTS OF THE CORONATION]

At eight we dined. Besides we thirteen--my Uncles, sister, brother, Späth, and the Duke's gentlemen--my
excellent Lord Melbourne and Lord Surrey dined here. Lord Melbourne came up to me and said:
"I must congratulate you on this most brilliant day," and that all had gone off so well. He
said he was not tired, and was in high spirits. I sat between Uncle Ernest[22] and Lord Melbourne;
and Lord Melbourne between me and Feodore, whom he had led in. My kind Lord Melbourne was much
affected in speaking of the whole ceremony. He asked kindly if I was tired; said the Sword
he carried (the first, the Sword of State) was excessively heavy. I said that the Crown hurt
me a good deal. He was so much amused at Uncle Ernest's being astonished at our still having
the Litany. We agreed that the whole thing was a very fine sight. He thought the robes, and
particularly the Dalmatic, "looked remarkably well." "And you did it all so well--excellent!"
said he, with tears in his eyes. He said he thought I looked rather pale and "moved by all
the people" when I arrived; "and that's natural; and that's better." The Archbishop's and Dean's
copes, which were remarkably handsome, were from James the Second's time; the very same that
were worn at his Coronation, Lord Melbourne told me. Spoke of the Bishop of Durham's awkwardness,
Lord Rolle's fall, etc. Of the Duc de Nemours being like his father in face; of the young ladies'
(train-bearers') dresses; which he thought beautiful; and he said he thought the Duchess of
Richmond (who had ordered the make of the dresses, etc., and had been much condemned by some
of the young ladies for it) quite right. She said to him: "One thing I was determined about;
that I would have no discussion with their Mammas about it." Spoke of Talleyrand and Soult
having been very much struck by the ceremony of the Coronation; of the English being far too
generous not to be kind to Soult. Lord Melbourne went home the night before, and slept very
deeply till he was woke at six in the morning. I said I did not sleep well. Spoke of the Illuminations
and Uncle Ernest's wish to see them.

    [Footnote 22: The King of Hanover.]

After dinner, before we sat down, we (that is Charles, Lord Melbourne, and I) spoke of the
numbers of Peers at the Coronation, which, Lord Melbourne said, with the tears in his eyes,
was unprecedented. I observed that there were very few Viscounts; he said: "There are very
few Viscounts," that they were an odd sort of title and not really English; that they came
from Vice-Comités; that Dukes and Barons were the only real English titles; that Marquises
were likewise not English; and that they made people Marquises when they did not wish to make
them Dukes. Spoke of Lord Audley who came as the First Baron, and who Lord Melbourne said was
a very odd young man, but of a very old family; his ancestor was a Sir Something Audley in
the time of the Black Prince, who, with Chandos, gained the Battle of Poictiers.

I then sat on the sofa for a little while with Lady Barham and then with Charles; Lord Melbourne
sitting near me the whole evening. Mamma and Feodore remained to see the illuminations and
only came in later, and Mamma went away before I did. Uncle Ernest drove out to see the Illuminations.

[Pageheading: PAGES OF HONOUR]

I said to Lord Melbourne when I first sat down that I felt a little tired on my feet; "You
must be very tired," he said. Spoke of the weight of the Robes, etc., etc., the Coronets; and
he turned round to me with the tears in his eyes, and said so kindly: "And you did it beautifully--every
part of it, with so much taste; it's a thing that you can't give a person advice upon; it must
be left to a person." To hear this, from this kind impartial friend, gave me great and real
pleasure. Mamma and Feodore came back just after he said this. Spoke of the Bishops' Copes,
about which he was very funny; of the Pages who were such a nice set of boys, and who were
so handy, Lord Melbourne said, that they kept them the whole time. Little Lord Stafford and
Slane (Lord Mountcharles) were pages to their fathers and looked lovely; Lord Paget (not a
fine boy) was Lord Melbourne's page and remarkably handy, he said. Spoke again of the young
ladies' dresses, about which he was very amusing; he waited for his carriage with Lady Mary
Talbot and Lady Wilhelmina; he thinks Lady Fanny does not make as much show as other girls,
which I would not allow. He set off for the Abbey from his house at half-past eight, and was
there long before anybody else; he only got home at half-past six and had to go round by Kensington.
He said there was a large breakfast in the Jerusalem Chamber where they met before all began;
he said, laughing, that whenever the Clergy, or a Dean and Chapter, had anything to do with
anything, there's sure to be plen'y to eat.

Spoke of my intending to go to bed, etc.; he said, "You may depend upon it, you are more tired
than you think you are." I said I had slept badly the night before; he said that was my mind,
that nothing kept people more awake than any consciousness of a great event going to take place,
and being agitated. He was not sure if he was not going to the Duke of Wellington's.

Stayed in the dining room till twenty minutes past eleven, but remained on Mamma's balcony
looking at the fireworks in Green Park, which were quite beautiful. Got a long letter from
Aunt Louise.

[Pageheading: EXTRA HOLIDAYS FOR SCHOOLS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 29th June 1838.

The Queen is very anxious to hear if Lord Melbourne got home safe, and if he is not tired,
and quite well this morning.

Lord Melbourne will be glad to hear that the Queen had an excellent night, is not the least
tired, and is perfectly well this morning; indeed she feels much better than she has done for
some days.

The Queen hears that it is usual to ask for an additional week's holiday for the boys at the
various Public Schools, on the occasion of the Coronation. Perhaps Lord Melbourne will enquire
about this, in order that there may be no neglect on my part.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 2nd July 1838.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for two kind letters, one which I got last Monday and one this
morning. The kind interest you take in me and my country (of which, and of the nation, I'm
more proud than I ever was, since I've witnessed their excessive affection and loyalty to me)
makes me certain that you will be glad to hear how beautifully everything went off. It was
a memorable and glorious day for me. The millions assembled to witness the progress to and
from the Abbey was beyond belief, and all in the highest good-humour. It is a fine ceremony,
and a scene I shall ever remember, and with pleasure. I likewise venture to add that people
thought I did my part very well.

The amiable Duc de Nemours dined with me on Friday, comes to my ball to-night, and dines again
with me on Wednesday. Pray tell dearest Aunt Louise that I thank her much for her very kind
letter, and will avail myself of her kindness and not write to her this mail.

Feodore is writing in my room, well and happy. Uncle Ernest still very lame, and Charles well.
There's an account of the family. Ever and ever your most devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

8th July 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. As your Majesty does not ride, the
question is between driving down the line or not going down it at all,[23] and it appears to
Lord Melbourne that the first is the best, namely, to drive down; but if your Majesty feels
a strong repugnance, there is no more to be said.

Lord Melbourne thinks it safer and more prudent that your Majesty should not ride; but still
it might have been done, and if Lord Melbourne had thought that your Majesty wished it much,
he would not have dissuaded it.

[Footnote 23: Referring to the Hyde Park review on the next day.]

[Pageheading: LOYAL DEMONSTRATIONS]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 12th July 1838.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am very grateful for your kind letter; it is extremely meritorious,
amidst such fatigues and festivities and occupations of every kind, to find a moment to write.
I expressed already the great satisfaction with which I read and heard all the accounts of
the Coronation, and I believe that there never was anything like it. The only one which in
point of loyal demonstration may approach it is that of George III., but I think it fell short
of yours.

I am happy to see that it has increased, if possible, your affection and attachment to your
country, and this is in every respect a great blessing. You will remember that I have never
varied on that subject, the great thing is to be the National Sovereign of your own country,
and to love its very faults. This strengthens the mutual attachment, and that can never be
too strong....

Believe me, ever, my dearest Victoria, your very devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

The whole of the family here offer their best hommages.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

NEUILLY, 20th July 1838.

I feel most grateful for your dear kind letter of the 10th inst., which I received a few days
ago. I hear that the review was something most splendid, and I feel always some regret at having
been deprived of the happiness of seeing you en fonction, which you do in a degree of rare
perfection. May the remembrance of all this long remain in your mind, to cheer and strengthen
you when occasionally there will be a darker sky....

[Pageheading: LORD DURHAM]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

10th August 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. The very difficult and embarrassing
situation in which Lord Durham and the Canadas and the Ministry are left by the vote of the
House of Lords of last night, requires that a Cabinet should be held to-day, and Lord Melbourne
has directed one to be summoned at two. Lord Melbourne will wait upon your Majesty either before
that hour or after, about four o'clock. The vote of last night and the Bill of Lord Brougham[24]
is a direct censure upon Lord Durham. Lord Durham's conduct has been most rash and indiscreet,
and, as far as we can see, unaccountable. But to censure him now would either be to cause his
resignation, which would produce great embarrassment, and might produce great evil, or to weaken
his authority, which is evidently most undesirable....

    [Footnote 24: This Bill (which emphasised the illegality of
    Lord Durham's ordinance) was read a second time by 54 to 36.

    [Footnote 25: See Introductory Note for the year, ante, p. 102.
      (Introductory Note to Ch. VII)]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

25th September 1838.

MY MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--I can never thank you enough for the dear letter which I found on
my table on arriving here, Sunday evening. It was most kind of you to have written so soon
after our departure, and such an affectionate, good, kind letter. The tears came to my eyes
as I read it, and I felt quite moved. Short as has been our stay, and great, as always, the
pain of leaving you, it has been a great happiness for me to see you again, a happiness for
which I shall always thank God, you, and your dear Uncle. I need not add how very precious
is your affection to me, and how very grateful I am for every new proof of it. You know my
feelings on this point, and you know they are better felt than expressed. Your calling me Louise,
and in such a kind way, gave me great pleasure. Almost all those dear to me call me so, and
I think it looks more affectionate; I would fain say now sister-like, although I am rather
an old sister for you now....

Leopold is half crazy with the steam-engine, and particularly with the tools which you sent
him. I enclose here the expression of his gratitude. I wrote exactly what he told me to write,
and I did not add a word. He has found again his kie (key), and he wears it suspended to his
neck by a blue riband, with the Duchess's little seal. He felt deeply the attention you had
to have an L engraved on each tool, and after his letter was closed he charged me to thank
you for it, and to tell you that it gave him great pleasure. An iron spade was the greatest
object of his ambition, and he worked so hard yesterday with it, that I feared he would hurt
himself with the exertion. He will go to-day to the races with us, in the Scotch dress which
the Duchess had the kindness to send him. It fits very well, and he is very proud of having
a coat shaped like that of a man....

[Pageheading: IRELAND AND O'CONNELL]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

25th October 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty....

Mr Stanley of the Treasury[26] arrived in London yesterday, and acquaints me that Lord Normanby
makes no secret of his willingness, and indeed his desire, to undertake the government of Canada.
It would have been better if Lord Normanby had acquainted Lord Melbourne quietly of this, and
not made it at once public to all the world. It is not necessary to do anything at present.
If Lord Durham remains, which Lord Melbourne does not, however, think likely, there will be
no successor to be appointed, and if he returns, the authority of Governor of Lower Canada
will devolve upon Sir John Colborne,[27] in whose hands it may be very safely left for the present.

If Ireland should be vacant, there is a strong feeling amongst many that it would be nice to
name the Duke of Sussex. It is said that it would be popular in Ireland, that the name of one
of the Royal Family would do good there, and that it would afford to O'Connell a pretext and
opportunity for giving up his new scheme of agitation. It is also added that the Duke would
suffer himself to be guided on all essential matters by the advice of his Chief Secretary,
and that he would content himself with discharging the ceremonial duties. Here are the reasons
for it--your Majesty is so well acquainted with the reasons on the other side, that it is unnecessary
for me to detail them.

I am afraid that times of some trouble are approaching, for which your Majesty must hold yourself
prepared; but your Majesty is too well acquainted with the nature of human affairs not to be
well aware that they cannot very well go on even as quietly as they have gone on during the
last sixteen months.

[Footnote 26: "Ben" Stanley, afterwards Lord Stanley of Alderley, Secretary to the Treasury.]

[Footnote 27: Field-Marshal Sir John Colborne, afterwards Lord Seaton, had been Military Secretary
to Sir John Moore, had commanded a brigade with much distinction in the Peninsula, and had
contributed greatly to the success of the British arms at Waterloo.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

4th November 1838.

Lord Melbourne is very well, but Sir James Clark,[28] a Scotchman and a physician, and therefore
neither by country nor by profession very religious, detained him from Church in order to go
through the report upon the state of Buckingham Palace. This is not a very good excuse, but
it is the true one. Lord Melbourne is very grateful to your Majesty for your enquiries, and
having some letters to submit, will be happy to attend upon your Majesty.

    [Footnote 28: Physician-in-Ordinary to the Queen.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF LADY JOHN RUSSELL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 6th November 1838.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--.... We have all been much distressed by the melancholy and untimely death
of poor Lady John Russell,[29] which took place on the 1st. She was safely confined on the
20th of October with a little girl, who bears my name, and seemed to be going on very well;
but on Wednesday she began to sink from weakness, not disease, and died at three o'clock on
Thursday. It is a dreadful blow to him, for he was so attached to her, and I don't believe
two people ever were happier together. I send you his pretty letter to me, which I think you
may be interested to see; he is dreadfully beat down by it, but struggles manfully against
his grief, which makes one pity him more. She has left four children by her first husband,
now orphans, the eldest a sweet girl twelve years old, and two little girls by Lord John; the
eldest of these two is two and a half, and the youngest a fortnight. I had known her very well
and liked her, and I assure you I was dreadfully shocked at it. You may also imagine what a
loss she is to poor Miss Lister, who has no mother, and whose only sister she was. I fear,
dear Uncle, I have made a sad and melancholy letter of this, but I have been so much engrossed
by all this misery, and knowing you take an interest in poor Lord John, that I let my pen run
on almost involuntarily.

We have very good accounts of the Queen-Dowager from Gibraltar.

Please return me Lord John's letter when you have done with it.

Lord and Lady Howard[30] have been here, and I urged him to bear Dietz as an inevitable evil,
and I think he seems very anxious to do what is right. I have likewise written to Ferdinand,
urging him and Dietz to be reasonable.

Will you tell Aunt Louise that she will receive a box containing the Limerick lace dress (just
like mine), which I lay at her feet. I fear, dear Uncle, you will think I'm making you my commissioner
de toilette, as in these two letters I have plagued you with commissions on that subject....

    [Footnote 29: Daughter of Mr Thomas Lister. She had been widow
    of the second Lord Ribblesdale, and married Lord John Russell
    in April 1835.]

    [Footnote 30: Charles Augustus, sixth Lord Howard de Walden,
    was the British Minister at Lisbon, and afterwards (1846-1868)
    at Brussels.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 9th November 1838.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--Your kind and interesting letter of the 6th reached me yesterday morning.
I hail in you those simple and unaffected feelings which it contains. May you always preserve
that great warmth and truth of character which you now possess, and rest assured that it will
be an ornament to you, and the means of finding the same truth and warmth of feeling in others.
Those who serve, from whatever motive it may be, have always their eyes wide open on their
superiors, and no qualities impose so much on them the necessity of respect, which they gladly
avoid, than a warm and noble character that knows how to feel for others, and how to sympathise
with their sorrows. I pity Lord John from all my heart, having always had for him sentiments
of the sincerest regard. I fear that as a political man it may prove also a severe blow.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I was certain you would take interest in and feel for poor Lord John; he
is, I hear, still dreadfully shaken, and quite unequal to do any business at present. His chief
consolation is in attending to the children.

I felt much for you, and still more for poor dear Aunt Louise, when the sad separation from
poor Marie[31] took place; it is so melancholy to see a dear relation depart who is so ill.

I have this morning heard from Ferdinand that the good Queen is at last confined, after keeping
us for two months and more dans l'attente of the event. It took place on the 3rd, and Ferdinand
writes such a funny letter, saying, "nous sommes tous bien heureux surtout moi qui craignais
que ce ne fût une petite fille ce qui m'eût été un peu désagréable, car en fait d'enfants j'aime
mieux les petits garçons, parce qu'ils sont plus gais et plus tapageurs."[32] Isn't this very good?

I believe the King of the French is to be godfather....

    [Footnote 31: See post, p. 144. (Ch. VIII, 11th January, 1839)]

    [Footnote 32: The Prince received the title of Duke of
    Oporto.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

20th November 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and transmits a copy of Mr. Macaulay's
letter.[33]...

Lord Melbourne fears, from what he hears of the language of Lord Howick and Mr. Monson, that
much difficulty will be found in making arrangements and deciding upon questions. But Lord
Melbourne will use every effort in his power in order to keep the Administration together and
to carry on the public service. Lord Melbourne hears with concern from Mr Fox Maule that Lord
John Russell does not return to business as readily as Mr Maule had hoped that he would, and
Lord Melbourne fears that he will not do whilst he remains at Cassiobury with the children.
Solitude and retirement cherish and encourage grief. Employment and exertion are the only means
of dissipating it.

    [Footnote 33: Declining to join the Government. The original
    is not preserved among the Queen's papers.]

[Pageheading: CANADA AND LORD DURHAM]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Melbourne had nothing particular to lay before your
Majesty, but still regrets that he did not write, as your Majesty might have wished to hear
from him.

Lord Melbourne returns the King of Portugal's[34] letter, which, as your Majesty observes,
is very rough and ill-tempered with reference to Lord Howard.[35] Lord Melbourne read it with
much concern, as it shows so much dislike and alienation, as renders it very improbable that
they should ever go on together well and in a friendly spirit. Lord Melbourne fears that the
epithets applied to Lord Howard, though very severe and full of resentment, are not entirely
ill-chosen and inappropriate.

All the Ministers, except Lord Duncannon[36] and Lord John Russell, dined here yesterday, and
they all appeared to be in very good-humour and disposed to co-operate in order to meet the
difficulties by which we are surrounded....

