That night we held our second consultation. Ulyate had returned from Kijabe with the extra
wagonload of supplies, which placed us in a position to move again immediately. The question
now arose as to whether it would be best to remain where we were a few days longer to gain
more experience, or to trek at once over the Mau, with a chance at giraffe on the way, and
so on into the Sotik country, with its alluring promises of both rhino and lion.

By this time we had hunted the Rift Valley thoroughly. During the seven days since we had left
Kijabe, the expedition had roped and photographed a cheetah, a serval-cat, a hartebeest, an
eland, and a wart-hog. Although we had been given no opportunity yet to find out how we were
going to hold a rhino or what we would do when the lion charged, still, in addition to our
success with the lesser animals, we had acquired something else of value. All the members of
the expedition had learned to work well together--in all the usual emergencies each man knew
what was expected of him and could likewise make a ready guess as to what the others intended
doing. Thus, in spite of the fact that on an expedition of this kind it is the unexpected that
always happens, our experience only added to our confidence that when we eventually encountered
one of the larger beasts we should get him.

The consultation ended with the unanimous decision to start for the Sotik at dawn.

In the October number Mr. Scull will relate the; adventures of the Buffalo Jones African Expedition
in Lassoing Giraffe and Rhinoceros.

***************************************************************** VOL. XXIII  September 1910 NO. 3 

THE WOMEN OF TO-MORROW  {page 368-379 part 2.}

By WILLIAM HARD

II

THIS IS A VERY IMPORTANT SUBJECT.

Dear General Reader, please let that sentence stand for the thousand words (much like those
of a competent barker at the door of a show-tent) which you usually oblige an author to expend
on enticing you into reading his article. Think how much time you save by walking straight
into the tent and observing that--

THE First International Congress on Domestic Science and Arts was held in 1908 at Freiburg
in Switzerland. It as no improvised amateur uplift, private-theatricals affair.

The head of the organizing committee was M. Python, president of Freiburg's State Council.
Seventy-two papers on technical topics were printed and circulated beforehand. The participating
members numbered seven hundred. The discussions developed the characteristic points of the
three rival breeds of household-arts instruction--the German, the Swiss, and the Belgian. Visits
were made to the normal schools of Freiburg, Berne, and Zurich, in each of which there is an
elaborate system for the training of household-arts teachers. In the end, in order that facts
and ideas about the education of girls for their duties as house-keepers might be more rapidly
circulated, it was voted to establish, at some place in Switzerland, a Permanent International
Information Committee.

Thus, in an age in which the productive tasks of the home have almost all been surrendered
to the factory; in an age in which even cooking and sewing, last puny provinces of a once ample
empire, are forever making concessions of territory to those barbarian invaders, the manufacturers
of ready-to-eat foods and ready-to-wear clothes; in an age in which home industry lies fainting
and gasping, while Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman begs the spectators to say "thumbs-down" and
let her put it out of its agony altogether--in such an age there comes, at Freiburg, in this
First International Congress on Domestic Science and Arts, the most serious, the most notable,
recognition. ever given in any age to the home's economic value.

A real paradox? Well, at any rate, it gives wings to the fluttering thought that theories of
industrial evolution, one's own as well as Mrs. Gilman's, are a bit like automobiles--not always
all that they are cranked up to be.

Certainly the revival of the home seems to attract larger crowds to the mourners' bench every year.

At the University of Missouri the first crop of graduates in Home Economics was gathered this
last spring. They were seven. And as most of them took likewise a degree in Education, it may
be assumed that they will go forth to spread the gospel.

Their preceptress, Miss Edna D. Day, who next year will head the just-organized  Department
of Home Economics in the University of Kansas, is a novel type of new woman in that she has
earned the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in "Woman's Sphere." She took graduate work in the
Department of Home Administration in the University of Chicago and achieved her doctorate with
an investigation into "The Effect of Cooling on the Digestibility of Starch." What she found
out was subsequently printed as a bulletin by the United States Department of Agriculture.

In the midst of the festivities at the wake held over The Home, it perplexes the mourners to
learn that some of those domestic science bulletins of the United States Department of Agriculture
excite a demand for a million copies.

   It is a wake like Mike McCarthy's.

   Mike was lookin' iligant    
   As he rested there in state.

   But

   When the fun was at its height   
   McCarthy sat up straight.

The ballad (one of the most temperately worded of literary successes) goes on to say that "the
effect was great." So it has been in this case--great enough to be felt all the way around
the world.

It is being felt in the Island Empire of the East. Miss Ume Tsuda's Institute at Tokyo (which
stands so high that its graduates are allowed to teach in secondary schools without further
government examination) has installed courses in English domestic science as well as in the
domestic science of Japan.

It is being felt in the Island Empire of the West. King's College, of the University of London,
has organized a three-year course leading to the degree of Mistress of Home Science, and has
also established a "Post-Graduates' Course in Home Science," in which out of fourteen students
(in this its first year of existence) four are graduates of the courses of academic study of
Oxford or Cambridge.

It is being felt in the United States at every educational level.

It has familiarized us with household arts in the public schools, and we are not astonished
to learn that in the public schools of Boston in every grade above the third, there is sewing
or cooking, or both, for 120 minutes every week for every girl.

It has accustomed us to such news as that in Illinois there are fifty-eight public high schools
in which instruction is offered in one or more of the three following subjects: Food, Clothing,
or The Home.

It has brought us to the point of expecting domestic science in all schools of agriculture
and of regarding it as natural for the legislature of Montana to appropriate $50,000 to the
State Agricultural College for a woman's dormitory.

It has cushioned the shock of the tidings from the University of California to the effect that
entrance credit will this fall be given for high school domestic science work.

We are reduced to equanimity in the face of the fact (which might have frenzied Alexander Hamilton)
that Columbia University, through its Teachers College, is offering courses in Elementary Cookery,
in Shirt-waists, in Domestic Laundering, and in Housewifery.

And at last, when we see the resuscitated home making its way even into the really-truly, more-than-masculinely,
academic Eastern women's colleges, we rush up to the Mike McCarthy of this case and assure
him warmly that we were not deceived for a moment by his apparent demise, having just learned
that President Hazard of Wellesley College, in her latest commencement address, said: "I hope
the time may soon come when we can have a department of domestic science, which shall give
a sound basis for the problems of the household "

What does it all mean?

"Fellow-Citizens," said the colored orator reported by Dr. Paul Monroe of Columbia, "what am
education? Education am the palladium of our liberties and the grand pandemonium of civilization."

But it does mean something, this Home Economics disturbance. AND SOMETHING VERY DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT IT SEEMS TO.

II

Mr. Edward T. Devine. of the New York Charity Organization Society, has distinguished himself
in the field of economic thought as well as in the field of active social reform. Among his
works is a minute but momentous treatise on "The Economic Function of Women." It is really
a plea for the proposition that to-day the art of consuming wealth is just as important a study
as the art of producing it.

"If acquisition," says Mr. Devine, "has been the idea which in the past history of economics
has been unduly emphasized, expenditure is the idea which the future history of the science
will place beside it."

We have used our brains while getting hold of money. We are going to use our brains while getting
rid of it. We have studied banking, engineering, shop practice, cost systems, salesmanship.
We are going to study food values, the hygiene of clothing, the sanitary construction and operation
of living quarters, the mental reaction of amusements, the distribution of income, the art
of making choices, according to our means, from among the millions of things, harmful and helpful,
ugly and beautiful, offered to us by the producing world.

Mr. Devine ventures to hope that "we may look for a radical improvement in general economic
conditions from a wiser use of the wealth which we have chosen to produce."

This enlarged view of the economic importance of Consumption brings with it a correspondingly
enlarged view of the economic importance of the Home. "If the Factory," says Mr. Devine, "has
been the center of the economics which has had to do with production, the Home will displace
the Factory as the center of interest in a system which gives due prominence to Enjoyment and Use."

"There will result," continues Mr. Devine, "an increased respect on the part of economists
for the industrial function which woman performs," for "there is no economic function higher
than that of determining how wealth shall be used," so that "even if man remain the chief producer
of wealth and woman remain the chief factor in determining how wealth shall be used, the economic
position of woman will not be considered by those who judge with discrimination to be inferior
to that of man."

Mr. Devine then lays out for the economist a task in the discharge of which the innocent bystander
will sincerely wish him a pleasant trip and a safe return.

"It is the present duty of the economist," says Mr. Devine, "to accompany the wealth expender
to the very threshold of the home, that he may point out, with untiring vigilance, its emptiness,
caused not so much by lack of income as by lack of knowledge of how to spend wisely."

Mr. Deville's proposition therefore would seem finally to sanction some such conclusion as this:

Physical science and social science (and common sense) are making such important contributions
to the subject of the rearing of children and to the subject of the maintenance of wholesome
and beautiful living conditions and to the subject of the use of leisure that, while the home
woman has lost almost all of the productive industries which she once controlled, she has simultaneously
gained a whole new field of labor. Consumption has ceased to be merely PASSIVE and has become
ACTIVE. It has ceased to be mere ABSORPTION and has become CHOICE. And the active choosing
of the products of the world (both spiritual and material) in connection with her children,
her house, and her spare time has developed for the home woman into a task so broad, into an
art so difficult, as to require serious study.

We have quoted at length from Mr. Devine's discourse because it is recognized as the classic
statement of the case and because it is warmly commended by such women as Mrs. Ellen H. Richards,
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose skill as scientist and vision as philosopher
have made her the most authoritative personality in the American Home Economics Association.
(That association, by the way, has some fifteen hundred due-paying members.)

The scales fall from our eyes now and we see at least one thing which we had not seen before.
We had supposed that sewing and cooking were the vitals of the Home Economics movement. Not
at all! The home woman might cease altogether to sew and to cook (just as she has ceased altogether
to spin, weave, brew, etc.) without depriving the Home Economics movement of any considerable
part of its driving power. Sewing and cooking are productive processes. They add economic value
to certain commodities; namely, cloth and food. But it is not Production, it is Consumption,
which the Home Economics movement is at heart devoted to.

This is plainly set forth by some of its most zealous workers. Thus Edna D. Day, at the Lake
Placid Conference on Home Economics in 1908, was more or less sorry that "domestic science
has come to be so largely sewing and cooking in our schools," was quite willing to look at
the white of the eye of the fact that "more and more we are buying ready-made clothes and ready-cooked
foods," and marked out the policy of her "Survey Course in Home Economics" at the University
of Missouri in the statement that "sewing and cooking are decreasingly home problems, while
the problems of wise buying, of adjusting standards of living to income, and of developing
right feelings in regard to family responsibilities are increasingly difficult."

To choose and use the world's resources intelligently on behalf of family and community--in
this Mr. Devine sees a new field of action, in this Mrs. Richards sees a new field of education.

Women will train themselves for their duties as consumers or else continue to lie under the
sentence of condemnation pronounced upon them by Florence Nightingale. "Three-fourths of the
mischief in women's lives," said she, "arises from their excepting themselves from the rule
of training considered necessary for men."

But what, in this case, is the training proposed?

The answer to that question will cause some more scales to fall from our eyes. Just as we have
seen that Home Economics does not consist essentially of sewing and cooking, we shall see that
Consumption is not at all a specialized technique in the sense in which electrical engineering,
department store buying, railroading, cotton manufacturing, medicine, and the other occupations
of the outside world are specialized technigues. Home Economics will not narrow women's education
but in the end will enlarge it, because Consumption, instead of being a specialty, is a generality
so broad as almost to glitter.

III

AT Menomonie, Wisconsin, Mr. L. D. Harvey, lately president of the National Education Association,
has established a Homemakers' School. It does not turn out teachers. Its course of instruction
is solely for the prospective housewife.

The first grand division of study is The House.

We here observe that the housewife is going to be something of a Sanitary Engineer, since she
studies Chemistry, Physics, and Bacteriology in their "application to such subjects as the
heating, lighting, ventilation, and plumbing of a house." It is thought that knowledge of this
sort "will go a long way toward improving the health conditions of the country."

We also observe that the housewife is going to be something of an Interior Decorator, since
she studies "design, color, house planning and furnishing."

She also acquires some skill as Purchasing Agent, Bookkeeper, and Employer of Labor when she
takes the course on Household Management and studies "the proper apportioning of income among
the different lines of home expenditures, the systematizing and keeping of household accounts,
and the question of domestic service."

The second grand division is Food Study and Preparation.

Here the housewife becomes, to some extent, a Dietitian, studying "the chemical processes in
the preparation and digestion of foods," and considering the question "how she shall secure
for the family the foods best suited to the various activities of each individual."

Here, likewise, she makes a start toward being a Pure Food Expert, through a study of "physical
and chemical changes induced in food products by the growth of molds, yeasts, and bacteria,"
and a start toward being a Health Officer, through a study of "bacteria in their relation to
disease, sources of infection, personal and household disinfection."

Nor does she omit to acquire some of the technique of the Physical Director through a course
in Physiology bearing on "digestion, storage of energy, rest, sleep, exercise, and regularity
of habits."

Of course, in her work in cookery, she pays some attention to special cookery for invalids.

The third grand division, that of Clothing and Household Fabrics, produces a Dressmaker, a
Milliner, and an Embroiderer, as well as a person trained to see to it that "the expenditure
for clothing shall be correct in proportion to the expenditure for other purposes."

The fourth grand division, the Care of Children, is of course limitless. The rearing of the
human young is, as we all know and as Mr. Eliot of Harvard has insisted, the most intellectual
occupation in the world. Here the homemaker applies all the knowledge she has gained from her
study of the hygiene of foods and of the hygiene of clothes, and also makes some progress toward
becoming a Trained Nurse and a Kindergartner by means of researches into "infant diseases and
emergencies," "the stages of the mental development of the child," "the child's imagination
with regard to truth-telling and deceit," "the history of children's books," and "the art of
story-telling."

Passing over the fifth grand division, Home Nursing and Emergencies (in which the pupil learns
simply "the use of household remedies," "the care of the sick-room," etc.), we come to the
wide expanse of the sixth grand division, Home and Social Economics.

The work in this division begins with a study of the primitive evolution of the home and comes
on down to the present time, when "the passing of many of the former lines of woman's work
into the factory has brought to many women leisure time which should be spent in social service."

Note that last fact carefully. Home Economics is no attempt to drive women back into home seclusion.
On the contrary, it is an attempt to bring the home and its occupants into the scientific and
sociological developments of the outside world.

For this reason, in traversing the division of Home and Social Economics, the pupil encounters
"an attempt to determine problems in civic life which seem to be a part of the duties of women."

Seventhly and lastly, there is a division dedicated to Literature, in which "a systematic course
in reading is carried on through the two years." Indispensable! No degree of proficiency at
inserting calories in correct numbers in to Little Sally's stomach could atone for lack of
skill at leading Little Sally herself in morning strolls through the "Child's Garden of Verses,"
with trowel in hand to dig up the gayest plants and reset them in the memory.

Which brings us back to the observation that the Consumption of Wealth is a generality.

