Chelsea Heroines.--In the year 1739 was interred in the college burying-ground, Christian Davies,
alias Mother Ross, who, according to her own narrative, served in several campaigns under King
William and the Duke of Marlborough, and behaved with signal bravery. During the latter part
of her life she resided at Chelsea, where her third husband was a pensioner in the college:
at this time she subsisted, as she tells us, principally on the benevolence of the quality
at court, whither she went twice a-week in a hackney-coach, old age and infirmities having
rendered her unable to walk. The famous Hannah Snell, whose history is recorded in various
publications of the year 1750, was actually at that time put upon the out-pensioners list at
Chelsea, on account of the wounds which she received at the siege of Pondicherry. Her singular
story excited a considerable share of public attention; and she was engaged to sing, and perform
the military exercises at various places of public entertainment: soon afterwards she married
one Eyles, a carpenter at Newbury. A lady of fortune, who admired the heroism and eccentricity
of her conduct, having honoured her with particular notice, became godmother to her son, and
contributed liberally to his education. Mrs. Eyles, to the day of her death, continued to receive
her pension, which, in the year 1786, was augmented by a special grant to a shilling a day.
In the latter part of her life she discovered symptoms of insanity, and was admitted a patient
into Bethlehem-hospital, where she died, Feb. 8, 1792, aged 69 years.

Longevity of Chelsea Pensioners.--The following records are collected from among the epitaphs
in the college burying-ground:

    Thomas Azbey, died .. 1737 aged .. 112
    Captain Laurence .... 1765 ........ 95
    Robert Cumming ...... 1767 ....... 116
    Peter Dowling ....... 1768 ....... 102
    A soldier who had fought
    at the battle of the
    Boyne ............... 1772 ....... 111
    Peter Bennet, of Tinmouth
     .................... 1773 ....... 107

Cholera.--During the late panic, a coalheaver went into a tobacconist's shop to purchase a
halfpenny worth of pig-tail, when a gentleman asked him if he was in any alarm about the cholera?
"No, measter," he said, "them says it's only among the lower classes like."

Calves-Head Roll.--This is a Roll in the two Temples, in which every bencher is taxed yearly
at 2s., every barrister at 1s. 6d., and every gentleman under the bar at 1s. to the cook, and
other officers of the house, in consideration of a dinner of calves-heads, provided in Easter.
P.T.W.

Curious Registry.--The following entry occurs in the register of the parish of Hanwell, Middlesex,
viz.:--

    "Thomas, daughter/son of Thomas Messenger, and Elizabeth, his
    wife, was born and baptized, October 24, 1731."

To which is added in the margin, "by the midwife, at the font, called a boy, and named by the
godfather, Thomas, but proved a girl."     P.T.W.

Aged Dancers.--Sergeant Hoskyns, the owner of Ingeston House, Herefordshire, entertained James
I. with a morrice-dance, performed by ten persons, whose united ages exceeded one thousand
years, all natives of Herefordshire.