The assembly was of opinion that the Iroquois aimed at the monopoly of all the trade of Canada,
by the instigation of the English and Dutch of New York, who were also supposed to incite them
to enmity against the French, and that, consequently, those nations should be held hostile.
It was also believed that the savages had only endeavored to gain time by their negotiations,
while they either destroyed the tribes friendly to the colonists, or seduced them from their
alliance. With this view they had already assailed the Illinois, and it was therefore the duty
of the French to save that nation from this attack, whatever might be the cost or danger of
the enterprise. For that purpose the colony could only furnish 1000 men; and to procure even
this number, it was necessary that the labors of husbandry should be suspended. Re-enforcements
of troops and a supply of laborers were therefore urgently required for the very existence
of the settlements; and an earnest appeal for such assistance was forwarded to the king, as
the result of the deliberations of the assembly. This application was immediately answered
by the dispatch of 200 soldiers to New France, and by a remonstrance addressed to the King
of Great Britain, who instructed Colonel Dongan, the English governor of New York, to encourage
more friendly relations with his French neighbors.

While M. de la Barre pushed on his preparations for war against the Iroquois, he still kept
up the hope of treating with them for peace in such a manner as not to forfeit the dignity
of his position. In the mean time, however, he received intimation that a formidable expedition
of 1500 warriors had assembled, ostensibly to wage war with the Illinois, but in reality for
the destruction of the Miamis and Ottawas, both allies of the French. The governor promptly
dispatched an envoy, who arrived at the village where the Iroquois had mustered on the evening
of the day appointed for the beginning of their campaign. The envoy was received with dignity
and kindness; and he succeeded in obtaining a promise that the expedition should be deferred,
and that they would send deputies to Montreal to negotiate with the French chief. But the wily
savages had promised only to deceive; and in the month of May following, the governor received
intelligence that 700 of these fierce warriors were on their march to attack his Miami and
Ottawa allies, while another force was prepared to assail the settlements of the French themselves.
He attributed these dangerous hostilities to the instigation of the English.

The governor made urgent representations to the minister at home as to the necessity of crushing
two of the Iroquois tribes, the most hostile and the most powerful. For this purpose, he demanded
that a re-enforcement of 400 men should be sent to him from France as soon as possible, and
that an order should be obtained from the Duke of York, to whom New York then belonged, to
prevent the English from interfering with or thwarting the expedition.

The Iroquois found the free trade with the English and Dutch more advantageous than that with
the French, which was paralyzed by an injudicious monopoly; but they were still unwilling to
come to an open rupture with their powerful neighbors. They therefore sent deputies to Montreal
to make great but vague professions of attachment and good will. For many reasons, De la Barre
placed but little confidence in these addresses: their object was obviously to gain time, and
to throw the French off their guard. He, however, received the deputies with great distinction,
and sent them back enriched with presents. But a few months after this, however, a small detachment
of Frenchmen was assailed by the Iroquois, and plundered of merchandise which they were bearing
to traffic with the Illinois.

After this flagrant outrage, nothing remained for M. de la Barre but war. He had received intelligence
that the Iroquois were making great preparations for an onslaught upon the French settlements,
and that they had sent embassadors to the Indians of the south for the purpose of insuring
peace in that quarter, while they threw all their power into the struggle with the hated pale
faces. The governor promptly determined to adopt the bolder but safer course of striking the
first blow, and making the cantons of his savage enemies the field of battle. As yet, few and
small were the aids he had received from France, and a considerable time must elapse ere the
further supplies he anticipated could arrive: he was, therefore, unwillingly compelled to avail
himself of the assistance of his Indian allies. The native tribes dwelling around the shores
of Lake Michigan entertained a deep and ancient jealousy of the powerful confederacy of the
Iroquois or Five Nations, who aspired to universal dominion over the Northern Continent; they,
therefore, held themselves equally interested with the French in the destruction of those formidable
warriors. M. de la Durantaye, who commanded the fort on the far-distant shores of Lake Michigan,
announced to his Indian neighbors that his countrymen were about to march against the Iroquois,
and requested that all the native warriors friendly to the white men should meet them in the
middle of August at Niagara. He was not, however, very successful in making levies, and with
difficulty led 500 warriors to the place of meeting, where, to his dismay, he found that the
French had not arrived: his followers were not easily reconciled to this disappointment.

In the mean time, M. de la Barre had, on the 9th of July, 1683, marched from Quebec to Montreal,
where he appointed the troops to assemble for the expedition. No precautions to insure success
were neglected. He dispatched a message to the English governor of New York to invite him to
join in the attack, or, at least, to secure his neutrality. He also sent belts and presents
to three of the Iroquois tribes, to induce them to refrain from joining in the quarrel of those
among their confederates who alone had injured him and his nation. He arrived at Montreal on
the 21st, with 700 Canadians, 130 soldiers, and 200 Indians: his force was organized in three
divisions. After a brief stay he continued his march westward.

The governor had not proceeded far when he received intelligence that the other Iroquois tribes
had obliged the Tsonnonthouans, his especial enemies, to accept of their mediation with the
French, and that they demanded the Sieur le Moyne, in whom they placed much confidence, to
conduct the negotiation. At the same time, he learned that the tribe he proposed to assail
had put all their provisions into a place of security, and were prepared for a protracted and
harassing resistance. His appeals both to the remaining Iroquois tribes and to the English
had also failed, for the former would assuredly make common cause against him in case of his
refusing their mediation, and the latter had actually offered to aid his enemies with 400 horse,
and a like force of infantry. Influenced by these untoward circumstances, he dispatched M.
le Moyne to treat, and agreed to await the Iroquois deputies on the shores of Lake Ontario.
In the mean time, M. de la Barre and his army underwent great privations from the scarcity
and bad quality of their provisions; they could with difficulty hold their ground till the
arrival of the savages, and such was their extremity that the name of the Bay of Famine was
given to the scene of their sufferings.

The savage deputies met the French chief with great dignity, and, well aware of the advantage
given them by the starvation and sickness of the white men, carried their negotiations with
a high hand. They guaranteed that the Tsonnonthouans should make reparation, for the injuries
inflicted on the French, but at the same time insisted that the governor and his army should
retire the very next day. With this ignoble stipulation M. de la Barre was fain to agree. On
his return to Quebec, he found, to his chagrin, that considerable re-enforcements had just
arrived from France, which would have enabled him to dictate instead of submitting to dictation.
The new detachment was commanded by MM. Monterlier and Desnos, captains of marine, who were
commissioned by the king to proceed to the most advanced and important posts, and to act independently
of the governor's authority. They were further instructed to capture as many of the Iroquois
as possible, and to send them to France to labor in the galleys. In this same year the Chevalier
de Callières, an officer of great merit, was sent from France to assume the duties of governor
of the Montreal district, as successor to M. Perrot, who had embroiled himself with the members
of the powerful Order of St. Sulpicius.

In the year 1685, the Marquis de Dénonville arrived at Quebec as governor general in succession
to M. de la Barre, whose advanced age and failing health unfitted him for the arduous duties
of the office. The new governor was selected by the king for his known valor and prudence;
a re-enforcement of troops was placed at his disposal, and it was determined to spare no effort
to establish the colony in security and peace. Dénonville lost not a moment in proceeding to
the advanced posts on the lakes, and, at the same time, he devoted himself to a diligent study
of the affairs of Canada and the character of the Indians. His keen perception promptly discovered
the impossibility of the Iroquois being reconciled and assimilated to the French, and he at
once saw the necessity of extirpating, or at least thoroughly humbling, these haughty savages.
But beyond the present dangers and difficulties of Indian hostility, this clear-sighted politician
discerned the far more formidable evils that threatened the power of his country from the advancing
encroachments of the hardy traders and fearless adventurers of the English colonies. He urged
upon the king the advantage of building and garrisoning a fort at Niagara to exclude the British
from the traffic of the lakes, and interrupt their communications with the Iroquois, and also
to check the desertion of the French, who usually escaped by that route, and transferred the
benefits of their experience and knowledge of the country to the rival colonies. The Northwest
Company of merchants at Quebec earnestly desired this establishment, and engaged to pay an
annual rent of 30,000 livres to the crown for the privilege of exclusive trade at the proposed
station.

The suspicions of the Marquis de Dénonville as to English encroachments were soon confirmed.
He received a letter from the governor of New York, dated 29th of May, 1686, demanding explanations
of the preparations which were being made against the Iroquois--the subjects of England--as
any attack upon them would be a breach of the peace then existing between England and France.
The British governor also expressed surprise that the French should contemplate erecting a
fort at Niagara, "because it should be known in Canada that all that country was a dependency
of New York." M. de Dénonville, in reply, denied the pretensions of the English to sovereignty
in New France, and pointed out the impropriety of hostile communications between inferiors,
while the kings whom they served remained on amicable terms. He rendered, however, some sort
of evasive explanation on the subject of his preparations against the Iroquois.

The following year the governor general received from the court the notification of a most
important agreement between England and France, that, "notwithstanding any rupture between
the mother countries, the colonies on the American continent should remain at peace." Unfortunately,
however, the force of national prejudice, and the clashing of mutual interests, rendered this
wise and enlightened provision totally fruitless.

In the summer of 1687, M. de Dénonville marched toward Lake Ontario with a force of 2000 French
and 600 Indians, having already received all the supplies and re-enforcements which he had
expected from France. His first act of aggression was one that no casuistry can excuse, no
necessity justify--one alike dishonorable and impolitic. He employed two missionaries, men
of influence among the savages, to induce the principal Iroquois chiefs to meet him at the
fort of Cataracouy, under various pretenses; he there treacherously seized the unsuspecting
savages, and instantly dispatched them to Quebec, with orders that they should be forwarded
to France to labor in the galleys. The missionaries who had been instrumental in bringing the
native chiefs into this unworthy snare were altogether innocent of participation in the outrage,
never for a moment doubting the honorable intentions of their countrymen toward the Indian
deputies. One, who dwelt among the Onneyouths, was immediately seized by the exasperated tribe,
and condemned to expiate the treachery of his nation, and his own supposed guilt, in the flames.
He was, however, saved at the last moment by the intervention of an Indian matron, who adopted
him as her son. The other--Lamberville by name--was held in great esteem among the Onnontagués,
to whose instruction he had devoted himself. On the first accounts of the outrage at Cataracouy,
the ancients assembled and called the missionary before them. They then declared their deep
indignation at the wrong which they had suffered; but, at the moment when their prisoner expected
to feel the terrible effects of their wrath, a chief arose, and with a noble dignity addressed him:

"Thou art now our enemy--thou and thy race. We have held counsel, and can not resolve to treat
thee as an enemy. We know thy heart had no share in this treason, though thou wert its tool.
We are not unjust; we will not punish thee, being innocent, and hating the crime as much as
we do ourselves. But depart from among us; there are some who might seek thy blood; and when
our young men sing the war-song, we may be no longer able to protect thee." The magnanimous
savages then furnished him with guides, who were enjoined to convey him to a place of safety.

M. de Dénonville halted for some time at Cataracouy, and sent orders to the commanders of the
distant western posts to meet him on the 10th of July at the River Des Sables, to the eastward
of the country of the Tsonnonthouans, against whom they were first to act. The governor marched
upon this point with his army, and, by an accident of favorable presage, he and the other detachments
arrived at the same time. They immediately constructed an intrenchment, defended by palisades,
in a commanding situation over the river, where their stores and provisions were safely deposited.
M. d'Orvilliers, with a force of 400 men, was left for the protection of this dépôt, and to
insure the rear of the advancing army.

On the 13th the French pushed into the hostile country, and passed two deep and dangerous defiles
without opposition, but at a third they were suddenly assailed by 800 of the Iroquois, who,
after the first volley, dispatched 200 of their number to outflank the invaders, while they
continued the front attack with persevering courage. The French were at first thrown into some
confusion by this fierce and unexpected onslaught; but the allied savages, accustomed to the
forest warfare, boldly held their ground, and effectually covered the rallying of the troops.
The Iroquois, having failed in overpowering their enemies by surprise, and conscious of their
inferiority in numbers and arms, after a time broke their array and dispersed among the woods.
The French lost five men killed and twenty wounded; the Iroquois suffered far more--forty-five
were left dead upon the field, and sixty more disabled in the conflict. The Ottawas, serving
under M. de Dénonville, who had been by no means forward in the strife, with savage ferocity
mangled and devoured the bodies of the slain. The Hurons, and the Iroquois Christians following
the French standard, fought with determined bravery.

The army encamped in one of the four great villages of the Tsonnonthouans, about eight leagues
from the fort at the River Des Sables: they found it totally deserted by the inhabitants, and
left it in ashes. For ten days they marched through the dense forest with great hardship and
difficulty, and met with no traces of the enemy, but they marked their progress with ruin:
they burned about 400,000 bushels of corn, and destroyed a vast number of hogs. The general,
fearing that his savage allies would desert him if he continued longer in the field, was then
constrained to limit his enterprise. He, however, took this opportunity of erecting a fort
at Niagara, and left the Chevalier de la Troye with 100 men in garrison. Unfortunately, a deadly
malady soon after nearly destroyed the detachment, and the post was abandoned and dismantled.
The constant and harassing enmity of the savages combined with the bad state of the provisions
left in the fort, to render the disease which had broken out so fatal in its results.

The French had erected a fort called Chambly,[403] in a strong position on the left bank of
the important River Richelieu.[404] This little stronghold effectually commanded the navigation
of the stream, and through it, the communication between Lake Champlain and the southern districts
with the waters of the St. Lawrence. On the 13th of November, 1687, a formidable party of the
Iroquois suddenly attacked the fort; the little garrison made a stout defense, and the assailants
abandoned the field with the morning light; the settlement which had grown up in the neighborhood
was, however, ravaged by the fierce Indians, and several of the inhabitants carried away into
captivity. The French attributed this unexpected invasion to the instigation of their English
neighbors, and it would appear with reason, for, on the failure of the assault, the governor
of New York put his nearest town into a state of defense, as if in expectation of reprisals.

In this same year there fell upon Canada an evil more severe than Indian aggression or English
hostility. Toward the end of the summer a deadly malady visited the colony, and carried mourning
into almost every household. So great was the mortality, that M. de Dénonville was constrained
to abandon, or rather defer, his project of humbling the pride and power of the Tsonnonthouans.
He had also reason to doubt the faith of his Indian allies; even the Hurons of the far West,
who had fought so stoutly by his side on the shores of Lake Ontario, were discovered to have
been at the time in treacherous correspondence with the Iroquois.

While doubt and disease paralyzed the power of the French, their dangerous enemies were not
idle. Twelve hundred Iroquois warriors assembled at Lake St. Francis, within two days' march
of Montreal, and haughtily demanded audience of the governor, which was immediately granted.
Their orator proclaimed the power of his race and the weakness of the white men with all the
emphasis and striking illustration of Indian eloquence. He offered peace on terms proposed
by the governor of New York, but only allowed the French four days for deliberation.

