SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. ABERNETHY.

Of Mr. Abernethy's independence and strict veneration of what is right, we have many examples.
Among others, the following is characteristic:--A certain noble personage, now enjoying a situation
of great responsibility in the Sister Kingdom, had been waiting for a long time in the surgeon's
anteroom, when, seeing those who had arrived before him, successively called in, he became
somewhat impatient, and sent his card in. No notice was taken of the hint; he sent another
card--another--another--and another; still no answer. At length he gained admission in his
turn; and, full of nobility and choler, he asked, rather aristocratically, why he had been
kept waiting so long?--"Wh--ew!" responded the professor; "because you didn't come sooner,
to be sure. And now, if your lordship will sit down, I will hear what you have to say."

One thing Mr. Abernethy cannot abide, that is, any interruption to his discourse. This it is,
in fact, which so often irritates him, so often causes him to snarl.--"People come here," he
has often said to us, "to consult me, and they will torture me with their long and foolish
fiddle-de-dee stories; so we quarrel, and then they blackguard me all about this large town;
but I can't help that."

That Abernethy is odd all the world knows, but his oddity is far more amusing than repulsive,
far more playful than bearish. Yates's picture of him last year was not bad; neither was it
good--it wanted the raciness of the original. Let the reader imagine a smug, elderly, sleek,
and venerable-looking man, approaching seventy years of age, rather (as novel-writers say)
below than above the middle height, somewhat inclined to corpulency, and upright in his carriage
withal; with his hair most primly powdered, and nicely curled round his brow and temples: let
them imagine such a person habited in sober black, with his feet thrust carelessly into a pair
of unlaced half-boots, and his hands into the pockets of his "peculiars," and they have the
"glorious John" of the profession before their eyes. The following colloquy, which occurred
not many days since, between him and a friend of ours, is so characteristic of the professor,
that we cannot resist its insertion:--

Having entered the room, our friend "opened the proceedings." "I wish you to ascertain what
is the matter with my eye, sir. It is very painful, and I am afraid there is some great mischief
going on."--"Which I can't see," said Abernethy, placing the patient before the window, and
looking closely at the eye.--"But--" interposed our friend.--"Which I can't see," again said,
or rather sung the professor. "Perhaps not, sir, but--"--"Now don't bother!" ejaculated the
other; "but sit down, and I'll tell you all about it." Our friend sat down accordingly, while
Abernethy, standing with his back against the table, thus began: "I take it for granted that,
in consulting me, you wish to know what I should do for myself, were I in a predicament similar
to yourself. Now, I have no reason to suppose that you are in any particular predicament; and
the terrible mischief which you apprehend, depends, I take it, altogether upon the stomach.
Mind,--at present I have no reason to believe that there is any thing else the matter with
you." (Here my friend was about to disclose sundry dreadful maladies with which he believed
himself afflicted, but he was interrupted with "Diddle-dum, diddle-dum, diddle-dum dee!" uttered
in the same smooth tone as the previous part of the address--and he was silent.)--"Now, your
stomach being out of order, it is my duty to explain to you how to put it to rights again;
and, in my whimsical way, I shall give you an illustration of my position; for I like to tell
people something that they will remember. The kitchen, that is, your stomach, being out of
order, the garret (pointing to the head) cannot be right, and egad! every room in the house
becomes affected. Repair the injury in the kitchen,--remedy the evil there,--(now don't bother,)
and all will be right. This you must do by diet. If you put improper food into your stomach,
by Gad you play the very devil with it, and with the whole machine besides. (Don't bother again!)
You are going to ask, 'What has all this to do with my eye?' I will tell you. Anatomy teaches
us, that the skin is a continuation of the membrane which lines the stomach; and your own observation
will inform you, that the delicate linings of the mouth, throat, nose, and eyes, are nothing
more. People laugh at me for talking so much about the stomach. I sometimes tell this story
to forty different people of a morning, and some won't listen to me; so we quarrel, and they
go and abuse me all over the town. I can't help it--they came to me for my advice, and I give
it them, if they will take it. I can't do any more. Well, sir, as to the question of diet.
I must refer you to my book. (Here the professor smiled, and continued smiling as he proceeded.)
There are only about a dozen pages--and you will find, beginning at page 73, all that it is
necessary for you to know. I am christened 'Doctor My-Book,' and satirized under that name
all over England; but who would sit and listen to a long lecture of twelve pages, or remember
one-half of it when it was done? So I have reduced my directions into writing, and there they
are for any body to follow, if they please.

"Having settled the question of diet, we now come to medicine. It is, or ought to be, the province
of a medical man to soothe and assist Nature, not to force her. Now, the only medicine I should
advise you to take, is a dose of a slight aperient medicine every morning the first thing.
I won't stipulate for the dose, as that must be regulated by circumstances, but you must take
some; for without it, by Gad; your stomach will never be right. People go to Harrowgate, and
Buxton, and Bath, and the devil knows where, to drink the waters, and they return full of admiration
at their surpassing efficacy. Now these waters contain next to nothing of purgative medicine;
but they are taken readily, regularly, and in such quantities, as to produce the desired effect.
You must persevere in this plan, sir, until you experience relief, which you certainly will
do. I am often asked--'Well, but Mr. Abernethy, why don't you practise what you preach?' I
answer, by reminding the inquirer of the parson and the signpost: both point the way, but neither
follow its course."--And thus ended a colloquy, wherein is mingled much good sense, useful
advice, and whimsicality.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

GIPSIES.

  Whether from India's burning plains,
  Or wild Bohemia's domains
    Your steps were first directed:--
  Or whether ye be Egypt's sons,
  Whose stream, like Nile's for ever runs
    With sources undetected,--

  Arab's of Europe! Gipsy race!
  Your Eastern manners, garb, and face
    Appear a strange chimera;
  None, none but you can now be styled
  Romantic, picturesque, and wild,
    In this prosaic era.

  Ye sole freebooters of the wood
  Since Adam Bell and Robin Hood--
    Kept every where asunder
  From other tribes--King, Church, and State
  Spurning, and only dedicate
    To freedom, sloth, and plunder.
  Your forest-camp--the forms one sees
  Banditti like amid the trees,
    The ragged donkies grazing,
  The Sibyl's eye prophetic, bright
  With flashes of the fitful light,
    Beneath the caldron blazing,--

  O'er my young mind strange terrors threw:
  Thy history gave me Moore Carew!
    A more exalted notion
  Of Gipsy life, nor can I yet
  Gaze on your tents, and quite forget
    My former deep emotion.

